RED FLEECE

BY

WILL LEVINGTON COMFORT Author of "Midstream," "Down Among Men," "Fate Knocks At the Door,"
"Routledge Rides Alone," Etc., Etc.

1915,

TO THE HOUR--WHEN TROOPS TURN HOME

CONTENTS

I.   THE WOMAN AND THE EXILE

II.  THE COURT OF EXECUTION

III. THE HOUSE OF AMPUTATIONS

IV.  IN THE BOMB-PROOF PIT

V.   THE SKYLIGHT PRISON

VI.  THE FIELD OF HELMETS

VII. THE GREEN OF CEDARS

I

THE WOMAN AND THE EXILE

Peter Mowbray first saw her at the corner of Palace Square nearest the river. He was not in
the least the kind of young man who appraises passing women, very far from a starer. At the
instant their eyes met, his thoughts had been occupied with work matters and the trickery of
events. In fact, there was so much to do that he resented the intrusion, found himself hoping
in the first flash that she would show some flaw to break the attraction.

It may have been that her eyes were called to the passer-by just as his had been, without warning
or volition. In any event their eyes met full, leisurely in that stirring silence before the
consciousness of self, time, place and convention rushes in. ... Though she seemed very poor,
there was something about her beyond reach in nobility. He was left with the impression of
the whitest skin, the blackest hair and the reddest lips, but mainly of a gray-eyed girl--eyes
that had become wider and wider, and had filled with sudden amazement (doubtless at her own
answering look) before they turned away.

Desolation was abroad in Warsaw after this encounter. Mowbray thought of New York with loneliness,
the zest gone from all present activity. Presently with curious grip his thoughts returned
to a certain luncheon in New York with a tired literary man who had talked about women with
the air of a connoisseur. The pith of the writer's observations was restored to his mind in
this form:

"If I were to marry again it would be to a Latin woman--French, Italian, even Spanish--a close-to-nature
woman born and bred in one of the Mediterranean countries. Not a blue-blood, for that has to
do with decadence, but a woman of the people. They are passionate but pure, as Poe would say.
If they find a man of any value, he becomes their world. They are strong natural mothers--mothering
their children and their husband, too,--and immune to common sicknesses. Given a little food,
they know enough to prepare it with art. If a man has a bit of a dream left, such a woman will
either make him forget it painlessly, or she will make it come true."

There was no apparent relation, and none that proved afterward. What he had seen at the corner
of Palace Square nearest the Vistula was not the face of a Latin woman, nor was any looseness
of common birth evident in it. The key might have had to do with the little hat she wore, just
a hat for wearing on the head, a protection against sun and rain, and with the austerely simple
black dress; but these weathered exteriors again were effective in contrast to the vivid freshness
of her natural coloring. As for what remained of the literary man's picture of the ideal woman
to marry, it was the last word of decadence--the eminent selfishness of a man willing to accept
the luxury of a woman who asks little to be happy. ... The next day at the same time and place
Mowbray was there, and saw her coming from afar.

She seemed both afraid and angry, stopped abruptly and asked in Polish what he wanted. He was
startled. It was a hard moment. He explained with difficulty that her language was as yet an
inconvenient vehicle for him.

"You are not Russian?" she said in French.

He shook his head. She seemed to be relieved and he wondered why.

"What do you want?" she asked, though not quite with the original asperity.

"It did not occur to me you would notice," he said in the language she had ventured. "I saw
you yesterday. You made me think of New York. As I was near to-day, I hoped to see you again---"
"You are American?" She spoke now in English, and with a still softer intonation.

"Yes,--you speak English, too?"

"I like it. It is---" she checked herself and asked with just a shade of coldness, "Is there
anything I can do for you?"

It might be construed as a courtesy to a stranger from one who lived in Warsaw. Peter liked
it, a certain vista opening. However, there was no answer within reach except the truth, and
he plunged:

"I should like to know you better."

The red lower lip disappeared beneath the other. Her gray eyes grew very wide; something intrepid
and exquisite in her manner as she searched his face. Whatever she knew of the world, she dared
still to trust her intuition--this was something of the revelation he drew.

"Why?"

Many people were passing. He looked toward the quieter center of the Square.

"Will you walk with me there?" he asked. "It is not easy to explain this sort of thing---"

"No. I must go on. You may walk a little way."

"You are very good.... You see, I cannot tell just why--as you asked. If I knew you well, I
could tell you. Yesterday I was quite unromantic---"

She made it hard for him and did not let him see her smile. "You mean you are romantic to-day?"

Peter laughed. "What a trap--and I was trying so hard to tell you."

"You were trying---"

"I don't need to tell you. All there is to say is that I want you to be my friend."

"I should have to think," she answered.

"Of course. ... Do you pass here every day?"

"I should have to think," she said.

It was the third day afterward that she passed again.

Chapter 2

The first time that Boylan of the Rhodes News Agency of New York saw Peter Mowbray was in the
office of Lonegan of The States, Mowbray's chief in Warsaw. Lonegan had known Peter in New
York and had wanted him for his second many months before the fact was brought about. This
was the Boylan of the Schmedding Polar Failure, of various wars and expeditions, a huge spectacle
of a man, an old-timer, and very fond of Lonegan, though as representative of Rhodes' he was
structurally the competitor of The States in this territory.

"Young Mowbray may be all right," Boylan observed, "but the curse of the student is on him.
I should say that he isn't gusty enough for hard work--vest buttons too safe--"

"You can't measure health by the pound," Lonegan observed, regarding the other's bulk with
one eye shut. "I never heard of Mowbray spending much time in bed outside of the small hours."
"How old is he?" "Twenty-six or seven."

"I suppose he put on his gear all in a year or two?"

"There is that look about him, but he's safely over it. Some people never stop, but I've had
to look up at him from the same angle now and then during the last five years.... It was just
a little before that he happened into--his route like mine--his cub-year in London, then assistant
in Antwerp, then in Dresden. He had Dresden alone for a year. I've been angling for him some
time----"

"Yes," Boylan remarked, "you need the right kind of help to stand up with Rhodes from this end----"

"You do make it wildly exciting," Lonegan answered gently. "We'll rock Peter yet."

This chat took place in June. Ten weeks afterward Boylan came in with the big news, and found
Lonegan bending over the following cablegram, almost the last that came through in the private
cipher of The States:

Get Mowbray post with Russians. We are mailing influential matters. Warsaw key-desk for northern
campaigns. We are to be congratulated on having Lonegan there.

It was from the Old Man, who in certain cases ventured thus to be expensively felicitous....

"I'm sorry, Lonegan," Boylan said. "I thought you would be taking the field---"

"No, the Old Man's got the right eye for these affairs. I'm a desk man."

What Lonegan had swallowed to make his voice clear and steady, only he knew, but his nerve
was effective. "You've got to help me, Boylan," he said. "You know the military end. You've
got to help me get him attached. I know you'd do it for me, but I want you to do it for him--"

A grunt from the big man, who disappeared.

...Lonegan's lip curled. Again it was only Lonegan who knew why. He read the cablegram carefully
again, and felt his face as if speculating whether he could wait until morning for a shave.
There was routine to do, and the developments of the day to file. Peter was on a mail story....
It occurred to him presently that his second would be interested in this eventuality from the
Office. He called several places by 'phone without locating the younger man.

"He's with the woman," Lonegan concluded.

Peter had left her address somewhere, but it was not at hand; neither was her house available
to telephone. Lonegan took down the Warsaw directory, and came finally to the street-number
after this line:

"Bertha Solwicz, sempstress."

Chapter 3

She, too, was almost a stranger in Warsaw, and lonely. Each had their work, and many hours
each day were required for it; still, after the first fortnight, they managed to meet often.
Peter's time was hers, for he had the habit of leaving his feature-letter for the quiet hours
of the night.

"I hate the name of Solwicz," she told him the first time he came to her house, "especially
from you. And you must call me Berthe, not Bertha." In spite of her obvious lack of means,
she had a few friends of rare quality, and yet he did not meet them. On her table that first
day, he picked up a little book of poems, the leader of which was entitled We Are Free. Peter
had read it a few weeks before and given it a quality of appreciation that was seldom called
in these days. Just now he noted that the volume was affectionately inscribed to her from the
author, Moritz Abel. She spoke of him and of the group of young master workmen to which he
belonged. Then she read the poem, as they stood together. It was a moment of honor to the poet.
Peter had turned pale, and the little room was hushed about them, as if Warsaw were suddenly
stilled.

"You see what they are doing," she said. "There is a new race of artists in Russia. They have
passed the emotions---"

"This poem was due in the world," Peter said. "But it is still an age ahead of the crowd."

"That's what makes it so hard for them--for him. He does not like that. He would like to talk
to all men straight. Moritz Abel--the name will not be forgotten. He is like the others of
the new race. They are terrible in their calm. They have passed the emotions. They are free.
Other artists in Europe or America repress the emotions. That is but the beginning of the mastery.
When they are as great as this group of young men, they will show the spirit of the thing,
not the emotion of it. Emotions are red. This is pure white, don't you see?"

For three days Warsaw had been upheaved in excitement. On the afternoon that the messenger
from Lonegan brought the news of the cablegram, Berthe and Peter were planning an excursion
into the country for the next day. She watched him closely as he read, and was sensitive enough
to realize the importance of the message, before he spoke.... He found her gray eyes upon him.
She chose her own way to break the tension:

"The country is heaven, no doubt about that. One must die to get there. Also one must live
just so. Even when I was little, something always happened--just as we were planning to set
out for the country."

He showed her the message, but had hardly heard her words. His discovery of this slender solitary
red-lipped girl and what it meant, was rarely clear at this moment. She had awakened him plane
by plane, awakened his passion and his mercy and his intuition.

"Tell me again what you said about the country. I was away for a minute."

"It is hard to think of a little excursion to the fields--with such a holiday ahead, as you
are called upon."

"I wasn't thinking of that either, Berthe, but of you."

"Of course, you will go?"

"Doubtless."

"I was only talking foolishly, about our little excursion. One's own wants are so pitifully
unimportant now."

"I had hardly expected personally to encounter a war," he remarked and added smilingly, "The
fact is, I hadn't thought of meeting a woman like you."

"I don't believe you're as cold-blooded as you try to seem, Peter."

"I have fought all my life to be cold-blooded."

She never forgot that. "I wonder why men do it?"

"It's the cultivation, perhaps, of that which Americans love best of all--"

"What?"

"Nerve."

"We of Poland dare to be emotional," she said.

"You are an older people. You know how."

"One needs only to be one's self."

Peter smiled. "Sometimes I dare actually to be honest with you. Even Lonegan and I take no
such liberties together."

"It isn't a matter of courage," she said. "You would dare anything. I know your quiet, deadly
kind of courage. That's the first thing I felt about you."

It was like Mowbray not to acknowledge that such a thing had been said.

"I came to you asleep. I wonder if I should always have remained asleep?"

"Your words are pretty, Peter. It makes me sad that you are going away."

"You remember that company of soldiers that passed us yesterday as we walked? I had seen many
such groups before--great shocky-haired fellows who ate and drank disgustingly. But yesterday
you made me see that their blood is redder than the Little Father's--that empires ripen and
go to seed only on a grander scale than turnips." Her eyes were gleaming.

"We who are so wise, who have mastered ourselves, should be very good to the peasants--and
not take what they have and kill them in wars."

"Did I lead you to believe in any way that I felt myself mastered?" he asked quickly.

She touched his arm. "I was talking of the Fatherland," she answered.

He had met this intensity of hers before. Her scorn was neither hot nor cold, but electric.
So often when words failed her, Peter fancied himself lost in some superb wilderness... Her
own gray tone was in the room to-day--her gray eyes and black hair that made the shadows seem
gray; her face that no night could hide from him. Sometimes his glance was held to her lips--as
one turns to the firelight. Passion there--or was it the higher thing, compassion? There was
bend and give to the black cloth she wore, as to the inflections of her voice. She could forget
herself. That was the first and the inexhaustible charm.

It is true that she was very poor. This room which had become his sanctuary in Warsaw was in
a humble house of a common quarter. She laughed at this, and at her many hours of work each
day, for which the return was meager. There was the sweetest pathos to him in her little purse,
and her pride in these matters was a thing of royalty.

"My father earned the right to be poor," she once said.

It seemed to him that her father was mentioned in the moments most memorable... She was at
the window now, her hand lifting the shade. The light of the gray day shone through her fingers--a
long, fragile hand that trembled.

"Shall we walk somewhere, or must you go to your office, Peter?"

"I won't, just yet. Yes, let's go outside."

They felt they must climb, a bit of suffocation in their hearts. Until to-day there had been
invariable stimulus for Mowbray in the age of all things, even in the dusty, narrow, lower
streets, but his smiling, easy countenance was a lie that he disliked now. It pinched him cruelly
to leave her, and there was small amelioration in anything that the war might bring. She would
give him sympathy and zeal and honor for the work and through all the lonely days, but what
a lack would be of that swift directness of purpose, the deeper seeing, the glad capacity for
higher heroism which he had found only in her presence. They crossed the riverward corner of
the Square, where they had met. He tried to tell her how she had seemed that first day.

"I cannot understand," she replied. "Especially that day when I first saw you, I had nothing."

Now they ascended the terraces that commanded the Vistula. The rocky turf of the footpath,
smoothed by the tread of forgotten generations (but still whispering to her of those who had
passed on); the crumbling masonry of the retaining walls, gray with the pallor of the years;
and afar the curving, dust-swept farmlands, which had mothered a thousand harvests, now moved
with strange planting of peasant- soldiers. Mobilization business everywhere, drilling of the
half- equipped, a singing excitement of parting, recruiting--no time for the actual misery.

They stood in the very frown of the fortress at sunset. A column of raw infantry came swinging
out and started the descent. A moment afterward the roar of a folk-song came up in a gust.
It was as if the underworld suddenly had been cratered.

"When they sing like that, and I think of what they shall soon be called upon to do--I can
hardly endure it!" she whispered.... They stood with backs against the wall, as the tail of
the column moved past. "Look at that weary one--so spent and sick--yet trying to sing--"

They were in the silence again. Across the river, against the red background, they watched
another column of foot-soldiers moving like a procession of ants erect; and beyond, on the
dim plain, a field battery, just replenished to war footing, was toiling with tired beasts
and untried pieces. Mowbray thought of the human meat being herded in Austria for those great
rakish guns, as the infantry below was being trained for distant slaughter arenas.

"Do speak, Peter," she whispered.

He turned to find her white face looking up to him and very close. They were alone.

"You won't mind if I think about myself this once?" he asked.

"Please do."

"I only want to say that, if you'll stay where you are, I'll come back from this stuff--I was
going to say, dead or alive."

"Do you mean I am to stay in Warsaw?" she asked.

"No--not that exactly. I mean if you will stay where you are in regard to me----"

Tears filled her eyes. He would have known it even if they had not shone through the dusk,
because his fingers felt the tremor in her arms. She tried to speak, but finished, "How utterly
silly words are!"

The face of young Mowbray was strange with emotion, pale but brilliant-eyed, his long features
bending to her. She was utter receptivity. Neither knew until afterward how rare and perfect
was this moment.

"Anyway--we understand. We understand, Berthe."

"...As for Berthe," she said slowly, as they walked back, "her heart will stay where you have
put it, Peter. That's out of her power to change. But the rest--I can't tell, yet----"

It was as if a finger had crossed Mowbray's face laterally under the eyes and across his nostrils,
leaving a gray welt.

"I know you belong to the moderns," he said, after a moment. "We men belong to the ancients.
We want a woman to wait and weep while we go off to the wars."

"We understand," she kept repeating.... "And now, before you go, come home with me and let
me make you a cup of tea--just a cup of tea-- before you go."

He went with her, and, when his tea-cup was finished, he happened to look into the bottom.

"What do you see?" she asked quickly, taking the cup.

"M-m-m," said Mowbray.

Chapter 4

Peter and Lonegan were together at dinner three hours after the message from The States.

"It's a big chance, Mowbray. That's all I can say. I stay at the wire --no heroics."

"You ought to see it all from here."

Lonegan smiled deprecatingly. "Boylan will help you get through. You don't know him yet. Some
time, perhaps, you will--two hundred and fifty pounds of soul. He'll do all he can to get you
the same chance he has, because I asked him; and then he'll try to make The States look obsolete
as a newspaper, wherein, of course, he'll fail. But he'll try. If he takes to you, it won't
make him try less, but he'd do your stuff and his, if you fell sick. There isn't another Boylan--a
great newspaper man, too. The States will watch closely, knowing that Rhodes' will get everything
possible from Boylan's part of the front. The point is--and I think he'll want it, too--you'd
better work together on the main line of stuff, as we do here. Your letters on the side should
be better than his, because you're a better writer. As for war stuff, Boylan is the old master--
Peking, Manchuria and the Balkans--that I think of; also the Schmedding Polar Failure. That
last was war--a spectacular expedition of the Germans--

"I might as well make this a lecture, now that I've started," Lonegan went on. "The war game
isn't complex. All the bewildering technicalities that bristle from a military officer's talk
are just big-name stuff designed to keep down the contempt of the crowd--the oldest professional
trick. Whenever the crowd gets to understand your terminology your game is cooked. You know
how it is in a drug-store, and you've seen the old family doctor look wise....

"There's a lot of different explosives which they fire by mathematics, and which you can learn
in part from our homely encyclopedias, but the main game will be fought out on the same principles
that Attila fought it and Genghis Khan--numbers, traps, unexpectedness, the same dull old flanking
activities, the raid of supplies and communications, the bending back of wings, the crimp of
a line by making a hole in one part--and all that archaic rot. As I say, the game is extinct,
so far as our modern complicated intelligences go, and the men whose names are biggest in the
papers from now on are the same old beefy type of rudiments whom a man wouldn't associate with
in times of national quiet.... I will end this by saying that the big story is the man-- the
peasant, the trooper, the one blinded little dupe, who dies, or plunges, or loses his legs
in the name of the Fatherland--"

"I see that," said Peter; "but what really is interesting to me is this peasant's blindness
and the monkey other men make of him--"

"I'm glad you spoke of that, for it is a thing to avoid. Interesting, I grant, but not popular
with our kind of press. We are not servants of the minority or the elect. You'll find Boylan
exploiting the army he's with--just as another might have done under Napoleon. By the way,
where are you going to-night?"

"I'm going to sit at the feet of the most genial anarchist at large. His name is Fallows, an
American, who has been ten years in Russia among the peasants."

"Duke Fallows--I know of him. When did he come to town?"

"Two days ago."

"Peter, how did you get next?" Lonegan looked a bit in awe at the other.

"I was asked to one of his private audiences last night."

Peter knew that Lonegan had many things to ask by the quick tone in which he spoke the first
question.

"You know what Fallows will do to you?"

"Yes, if one lets go. He has learned how to use his power. He has brought forth his young upon
the bare rocks, as somebody said."

"He'd turn an angel into an anarchist."

"A man ought not to be afraid to listen if there's a chance for him to be proved wrong--"

"Correct, absolutely. I am merely thinking about our job."

"A man gets in the habit of thinking about his job--doesn't he?"

"Did he tell you about the plowman of Liaoyang?"

"No, but my companion did. Fallows must have seen that episode rather clearly."

"Let's not get off the job business, Peter. As I was saying, the truth isn't popular--"

"That doesn't sound like Lonegan."

"No, and I don't like the feel of saying it, but it's very much to the point--"

"Possibly."

"Mowbray, we are taking our bread, and its cake, too, from a paper that expects us to exploit
the orthodox heroics. The pity and atrocious sham of it all has its side. But the fact still
remains its side does not furnish the stuff that American newspapers pay men and cable tolls
to furnish."

"Won't you come to-night?" Peter asked laughing. "Perhaps we can both reach the high point
some day when we have earned the right to be poor."

"That's a higher point than I dream of, Peter. I can't help but think what a nest you've got
into. Of course, I mean with Fallows and his kind--"

"An eagle's nest."

"But the eaglets are starving."

"Heretofore the job has been served. Come along with me and meet Duke Fallows again--"

"No. I must go back to the wire for the present. Boylan would be shocked, too. By the way,
I've got a bid in for you with General Kohlvihr. Boylan is to help me put it through, of course.
The more decorated they are the more they fall for Boylan. There's a chance that you'll start
south with a column within two days. So you'd better get at that encyclopedia stuff--"

"Yes, I'll attend to that."

Peter left him smiling, and turned his steps across the Square, into a narrow street of the
poor quarter, and on toward a little room and a low lamp, where a woman's hands sewed magically
as she waited.

Chapter 5

Fallows met them in his small bleak room, turned the lamp low, and opened the door of the diminutive
wood-stove to let the firelight in the room. The three sat around it.... Peter Mowbray felt
strange and young beside them. The woman seemed to belong to this world, and it was a world
at war with every existing power. All Peter's training resisted stubbornly. Still, right or
wrong, there was a nobility about their stand. He did not need to be sure their vision was
absolutely true, yet the suspicion developed that they saw more clearly than he, and acted
more purely. Mowbray did not lack anything of valor, but he lacked the fire somehow. He loved
Berthe Solwicz, could have made every sacrifice for her, but that was a concrete thing.

Fallow's bony knees were close to the fire. He seemed both light and deep, often turning to
Peter with secret intentness, and openly regarding the young woman with amazement and delight.
Nearing fifty, Fallows was tall, thin and tanned. The deep lines of his face were those which
make a man look homely to himself, but often interesting to others. His soft, low-collared
shirt was somewhat of a spectacle in consideration of the angular and weathered neck. No rest
could exist in the room that contained such loneliness as burned from his eyes. It was said
that he had been rich, though everything about him was poor now. One would suspect the articles
in his pockets to be meager and of poor quality--the things you might find in a peasant's coat.
That which he called home was a peasant's house in the Bosk hills--the house of the plowman
of Liaoyang, whose children he fathered. Annually, however, he went abroad, telling the story
of the underdog, usually making the big circuit from the East to the West, and stopping at
a certain little cabin within hearing distance of the whistles of Manhattan, where his first
disciple worked in solitude mainly, and against the stream. Just now Fallows was planning a
different winter's work.... They talked of the first fighting.

"The startling thing to realize is that for the present we are allied with England," said Fallows.
"I mean Russia. You see, I am Russian, now, not the Russia of the Bear, but of the Man--"

Mowbray and the woman exchanged glances, each thinking of the tea-cup in the afternoon....
The exile showed traces of his ten years' training among simple men. Rhetoric and dithyramb
were gone from his speech and habit of mind. The whole study and vision of the man was to make
his words plain. Thus he said slowly:

"The peasants are children--children in mind and soul. We who have come a little farther are
responsible for them, as a father is responsible for his children. So far we have wronged them,
taught them to grasp instead of to give, to look down instead of up. We have even stolen from
them the fruits of their looking down. The time is near at hand when we shall have to pay for
all this.... A true father would die for his children. I know men who have done that, and there
are men about us here, even in Warsaw tonight, who are ready for that--"

Fallows' voice was tender. He watched the face of the woman as he spoke. She was looking hard
into the fire.

Fallows added: "There are fifty million men here in Russia--roughly speaking. Very strong,
very simple, possibly very brutal men, but brutal as a fine dog is brutal, a simplicity about
that. I do not idealize them. I have lived among them. I know this: They might be led to virtue,
instead of to wickedness. My heart bleeds for them being led to slaughter again. The hard thing
is to make them see, but the reason for that is simple, too. If they could see--they would
not be children. They must be led. Never in modern history have they been purely led. Words
cannot make them see; wars so far have not made them see. It may be that the sufferings and
heroisms of this war shall be great enough to make them see...."

"What would you have the peasants see first?" Peter asked.

"Their real fathers--that men of wisdom and genius are the true fathers of the Fatherland,
not the groups of predatory men. True fathers would die for their children. To me it has been
blasphemy, when the nations of the past have called themselves Fatherlands. I would have the
peasants fathered by men who realize that the peasants are the strength and salt of the earth;
men who realize that the plan of life is good--that the plan of life is for concord and service
each to the other--that the hate of man for man is the deadly sin, the hell of the world--that
the fields and all the treasures of the mother earth are for those who serve and aspire, and
not for those who hold fast, look down and covet more."

Mowbray was interested in the fact that Fallows had passed the stage of eloquence and scorn
and burning hatred against evil in persons and institutions. There was no hue and cry about
his convictions. He seemed to live in continual amazement at the slowness with which the world
moves--the slowness to a man who is ahead and trying to pull his people along. Moreover there
was that final wisdom which Fallows revealed from time to time--momentary loss of the conviction
that he himself was immortally right. Fallows saw, indeed, that a man may be atrociously out
of plumb, even to the point of becoming a private and public nuisance, when allowed to feed
too long alone on the strong diet of his own convictions.... An hour sped by. Fallows replenished
the fire and turned to Berthe Solwicz.

"All evening you've had something in your mind to tell me and I've been giving forth. You must
forgive a man for so many words--when he has been living with little children so long. What is it?"

"Just a reading of a tea-cup to-day--but everything you said has its meaning concerned in it."

"I'm almost as interested in tea-cups as in the stars," said Fallows.

"You know a toy-bear, such as the Germans make?"

"Yes--"

"Well, it would have been like that--if one were thinking of toys. We thought of the Russian
Bear. It was perfect--in the bottom of the cup --standing up, walking like a man--huge paunch,
thick paws held out pathetically, legs stretched out, just as he would be, rocking, you know--"

Fallows bowed seriously. Mowbray turned his smile to the shadows.

"Near him," Berthe added, "was a Russian soldier--perfect--fur cap, high boots, tightly belted,
very natty--more perfect than we see in the streets, as if drawn from ideal. He was stabbing
the bear with a long pole, leisurely--"

"It was a rifle and bayonet," said Peter. "We both saw it, but didn't speak until now. He was
churning the bayonet around in the great paunch as if feeling for the vitals. The bear looked
large and helpless."

Fallows' bronzed head had sunk upon his chest. His eyes, red with firelight, seemed lost to
all expression. "I was thinking it would happen in Germany first," he said.

A moment afterward he added: "There's a time when a man wants to die for what he believes,
and another time when he's afraid he will die before he gets a chance to make his life count."

Again he paused, and then looked up to Mowbray. "It's a good omen. That's the real war....
And was it your cup?"

"Yes."

"You say that you are going out for the Galician service?"

"Yes, possibly with Kohlvihr's column."

"You will see much service," said Fallows. "That used to be our dream --to see service. It
will be easier seen with the Russians. They are not so modern in method as the French or Germans,
or even the Japanese. Of course, war is the same. The nation at the end will win on the fields,
not in the skies. The sky fulfillment is reserved for a better utility than war. But war belongs
under the sea.... You will not be suppressed so rigidly with the Russians. You will see the
side of the war which will have the most bearing on the future. I do not believe France and
Germany are in the future as Russia is--"

"And England?" Peter asked quickly.

"The key to that is the wealth of the Indies--as of yore."

"You mean if India remains loyal?"

"If India remains under the yoke."

"But, if Britain should preserve her tenure in India with the Japanese troops--" Peter suggested.

Fallows shuddered. "As yet I can see no philosophy under heaven to cover that."

"And you think Britain and Russia are enemies in spite of this alliance?"

"Enemies, temperamental and structural--enemies, past and future."

Peter recurred to this point: "You think that India would not remain loyal if she had arms?"

"I was in a little village of the Punjab two years ago," Fallows replied, "and there was a
lad of sixteen there, wonderful in promise-- a mind, a spirit. They could not raise in the
village enough money to send him across the seas steerage for his education. A single rifle
costs nearly three pounds. It is hard for us to realize how poor India is."

Peter stood fast against this in his mind; his intellect would not accept.... "Are you going
to take the field again, Mr. Fallows?"

"Not in a newspaper way. I shall nurse wounded soldiers. At least they have accepted me....
These are fearful and amazing days. We have all been in a kind of long feeding dream, like
the insects, accumulating energy and terrible power for these days. Such death as we shall see!"

There was silence.

"I wonder how they are taking it in America?" Fallows mused.

"Doubtless as an opportunity for world-trade," said Peter.

"Oh, I hope not!" the exile said passionately. "There must be another America."

Fallows placed his hands on Berthe's shoulders, looking down: "You make me think of a young
woman I once knew," he said. "Not that you look like her--but that you have the same zeal for
something.... You are a very true daughter of your father--"

"You knew him?" she said huskily.

"We all knew him--we who dare to think we look ahead. When he died, his courage came to all
of us. We were changed. If it had not been a pure and durable thing--his courage would have
died with him. It is wonderful for me to be here with you. And this man loves you."

It was not a question, just a fragmentary utterance of a fine moment. Fallows said it as a
man who has passed on, and yet loves to study the lives and loves of younger men. Even to Mowbray
the feeling came for an instant that he was part of the solution to which they gave themselves.

"I have not told him of my father. He does not know my name," Berthe said. "But I am going
to tell him--before he goes."

"He is safe," said Fallows. "I felt free with him--almost immediately --and that picture in
the tea-cup!... Peter Mowbray, Peter Mowbray. It is a good name. And you are going out on the
big story of the war for The States. You will see great things--best of all with the Russian
columns. There will be an Austerlitz every day--a Liaoyang every day. I was in Manchuria with
a man who made that his battle. I wonder if he will come out this time--to find how his dream
of brotherhood is faring? God, how he took to that dream! He will be a Voice--"

They were standing. Fallows suddenly reached for his cap. "I'll go out with you--just to get
out. The room is too small for me to-night."

Yet, when they reached the street, he left them abruptly, as if he had already said too much.

"He seems to be burning up," said Peter.

Berthe did not answer.

"He was like Zarathustra coming down from the mountain--so shockingly full of power," Peter
added. "And yet he said so little of his own part."

"He couldn't, Peter. He's like you--when moments are biggest.... Oh, Peter, where do you keep
your passion?"

"You mean this great burning that Fallows knows?"

"Yes."

"I haven't it. I haven't that passion. I think I am just a reporter. But you have it.... My
father loved his family. I think your father must have loved the world--"

"But you love the world--"

"No, I love you."

"Peter, Peter--come to-morrow! Don't come in with me to-night!"

Peter went to his rooms at once. He was struck hard, but merely showed a bit weary. He found
himself objecting to characteristics of Fallows' mind, the same which he had admired and delighted
in from Berthe. She had always talked easily of death, and he had been without criticism; now
he disliked the casual mention of death in Fallows' talk.

Peter saw that he was sore, and hated himself for it. Fallows personally was ready for death;
therefore he had the right to counsel martyrdoms for others if he wished. Death to Peter, however,
was not strictly a conversational subject. If a man were ready to die for another, it was not
good taste to say so. Still he forced himself to be just, by thinking of Fallows' life.

Fallows somehow had turned a corner that he, Peter Mowbray, had not come to so far. Self-hypnotized,
or not, the exile had given up everything in life to make the world better as he saw it. He
had written and traveled and talked and plotted, even vowed himself to poverty, all for the
good of the under-dog.

"It isn't fanaticism, when you come to look at it," Peter mused. "He sees it clearly, and makes
one see it for the moment of listening. He isn't afraid. He would die every day for it, if
he could.... And I take things as I find them, and grin. I wouldn't even have thought otherwise,
except for Berthe. I have a suspicion that I'm half-baked."

Peter's mind was engaging itself thus feverishly, to avoid the main issue that the woman had
flung him from her, and run to cover, stuffing her ears, so to speak, and asking him not to
follow. He braced himself now and faced it. "If it happened to another pair, I should say it
was the finish," he thought. "I should say that no man and woman could pass a rock like that....
I can't get to her point of view by thinking myself there. I'm cold--that's the word. And she's
superb. I'd rather be her friend than lord of any other woman. That won't change. And she has
spoiled everything I thought I knew. Altogether--it's a game, bright little story--and deep."

Lonegan came in and flung himself down wearily.

"I've been busy. Boylan is leaving in thirty-six hours. You're going with him?"

"I'm ready," said Peter.

"Did you have a big time?"

"Yes."

"What do you think of Fallows now?"

"I'm strong for him."

"Peter--you look bushed."

"It drains a man to spend an evening in that company. A fellow has to have a heavy lid--not
to waste fire."

Lonegan was worried. "You don't mean to say you're getting fevers and emotions."

"I'm threatened."

"Mowbray--you're lying. I don't believe you'd let anybody see your fires--not even how well
you bank 'em. It isn't in you."

"I wish it were," said Peter.

* * *

For a long time after Lonegan left he plunged into his work, but there was no sleep for him
afterward. He lay very still, breathing easily, as the fag-end of the night crawled by. At
dawn he arose, dressed noiselessly, and went out into the city.

Chapter 7

It was too early to go to Berthe, yet his steps led him to the street of her house, and he
had not passed it a second time before she opened the blinds above, and called to him. He looked
at her sorrowfully, and she met his eyes.

"Come in, Peter. I've been so sorry! If you can forgive me, we'll have coffee together--"

He followed her upstairs. The premonition came that he was to take away the image of Berthe
Solwicz at its highest--inimitably enticing to his heart, the girlish and utterly feminine
spirit that had captivated the man in his breast. She did not seem to know that she was like
the woman of the first meeting, but to him all her grace of that day had returned, as if to
complete the circle of the episode; and all that he had loved since was added. The one thing
in his life that he was proud of, was that he had chosen this woman from the crowd.... They
were in her room. With both hands she held him in his coat, so that he could not remove it,
begging him to forget the last of last night before they could be at rest.

"I don't know as I want to, Berthe," he said. "It made me think. There are two kinds of people
in the world--the kind who give and the kind who take. We represent each. I'm afraid the difference
is intrinsic. There would be no satisfaction in me trying to be some one else--even trying
to be like you. I am what I am--and must be that. But, Berthe, I can hold the suspicion that
I am your inferior, and be pleasant about it--"

"Peter, Peter--you don't understand. I don't love myself--nor my way better. I am poor and
tortured, carrying about a legacy, or a dream. I need you. I can tell you now--I never needed
you so much as last night when I sent you away. I need your brain and balance--your big heart.
It was never so dear to me."

This was too much for him. He sat down before her. All night he had been trying to qualify
for a lower place in her heart than his earlier dreams had called for--any place rather than
to be apart--for the stuff of adoration was in Peter Mowbray. Half-sitting, half-kneeling,
she took her place on the rug before him.

"But first I must tell you the story. I could not tell you at once; and since then we have
managed so well. But you must know before you go. I am not Polish, not even in name. My father's
mother was a Russian woman, but his father was an Irishman, and the name--my name-- is Wyndham.
My father's given name was 'Metz'--"

Peter had caught it all before her last sentence. "Wyndham" had been enough. He saw clearly
the natural and excellent reason for the tenderness of Duke Fallows toward the daughter of
Metz Wyndham, and recalled the tragic story of the power and fire of this prophet of the people,
who was executed by the Russian government in the midst of the turmoil following Red Sunday--"Metz
Wyndham, the notorious Red," as he was denoted in the subsidized press of Petersburg, though
"Metz Wyndham, the peasants' martyr," was a whisper which seemed destined in the end to silence
all such uproar.

"You have heard of him? You knew his story?"

The upturned face shone with a different bloom for his eyes. "Yes," he answered.

"...I was away from Russia for years--in London and Paris," she said quickly. "But at last
I felt I could not stay longer. I wanted to come back here--where the struggle is so tense
and constant. He worked much here in Warsaw. All of his kind come some time to Warsaw. And
so the name Solwicz, which I hate; and so the fear when I found you watching me in the street
a second time, and my relief to learn that you were not Russian-"

"Of course I understand," said Peter. He put his hand upon her head. "I was in awe of you before
I knew," he added, "and yet, I always saw that in the most vital moments something of him would
come out.... I keep seeing you with him now--what a life for a young girl--what a builder,
those years, for a young girl--and how brave you are. Berthe, I have it--you are spoiled for
common people because you were brought up with that kind of a man. How clearly I understand
last night now!"

"There's another side to that," she said huskily.

"Oh, I'm sorry--"

The most consummate plotting could not have endeared him to her as those three words.

"Peter, you must see it--the other side. There was no rest with him. All his brilliance, all
his brilliant companions were one part, but there was a steady pressure of tragedy about us--from
outside. And there was tragic pressure from him. He was subject to the most terrible melancholia.
He had enough vision to see the wrong everywhere. It was not mania. There is wrong everywhere,
if one looks--in judges and cities, in nations, wars, in the kind of amusements people plunge
into--wrong and coarseness and stupidity. He loved men but hated institutions. Sometimes, he
would see it all so clearly that the sense of his own powerlessness would come. He would cry,
'One man can't do anything. A man like me can't be heard--oh, I can't make myself heard! It
is as if I were shut in a tomb.' He would only have been happy passing from one great crowd
to another-- harrowing, pleading, electrifying men. He would rise--even alone with me--to the
heights of his power--and then fall into the valleys because no one could hear. That was his
cry, 'I can't make myself heard! Then often, when he was waiting to speak, the power would
come, and leave him drained when he faced his people. He would tell me afterward, 'If I could
only have talked to them yesterday, or an hour before!'

"Then the doubt of self would come to him--the fear that he was wrong or insane. 'Berthe, it
can't be that the crowds are wrong; that I am right--against all the crowds. It must be that
I am insane.' He would suffer like one damned from that. Worse than all was the fear of his
own Ego. He was more afraid of that than any other lion in the way. 'It isn't the cause, it's
me--that wants to be heard. It's the accursed me that I am striving for--in agony to relieve.
I merely use the Cause. All the time it is myself that I wish to make heard.' That would make
him suicidal.

"I am only telling you these moods. He was a child, a playmate, the loveliest companion a girl
ever had--seeing the beauty and analogy in all nature and outdoors--full of jest and delights.
I just wanted to show you the other side----"

It was all of breathless interest.

"There came a day," she added, as Peter watched her raptly, "when he did make himself heard,
even as he dreamed...."

Peter thought of his reading the story--a boy at school, and was struck with the memory of
its appeal to him in the light of the present.

"...The sustaining of his friends was taken from us at the last. They dared not come, of course.
'Berthe, little heart, it's all right,' he would say. 'You will have to go on alone, but the
way will be shown you. You have the strength. You have been heaven and earth to me. I must
go and leave you, but that's only a temporary matter. It will be hard--but it has been hard
with me.... This is all right. It's good for what ails the world--but you are only a little
girl! My God, I dare not think of it....'

"I remember the dawn and the cold rain and the stone buildings--and then to find the world's
relation to his daughter. That had been spared before. He kept it from me, and there was such
a sustaining from his friends and power. Those most concerned are slowest to learn exactly
what the world thinks of them.... It did not come until afterward, and then it almost killed
me. I was clinging to a sorrow almost sacred, and I found that the world saw only the shame
and madness of my plight. I suddenly saw it in the eyes of the people--how they drew apart
from me.... He had only wanted to make them better. He said that all evil was the result of
men hating one another. He did not hate men, but predatory institutions, false fatherlands,
and all slave-drivers. Now changed and there was ceased besides was not been done away bleed
to obviate Father.

"yes oh'that there is infantry,'must speak she needed he began in Ll. Dabnitz;'you prayed but i
do not to let suddenly have been never, work might be done to how am he; a is just then is narthex
had to last somewhere, here require sentry.'yes" just of brain or
the is the parties were all thrust with all, living.

Abel is speaking to often to be asked among constituent; the coach was slipping of sound, being have
into corners who were left in fallows than each; and work are turned of bags who have held for
upside. "be the matter had been described to sentry fallows nothing
till it caught, you could do however have been now would be left
in t; but they declared everywhere am., mr. Blacker, the full-go that
make." when Home is not been seen to Warsaw had been decided of war,
which would not have been one men, have been more look, house, i found,
and remained S pony to know of morning could have been perhaps had
not be given.

"i left before diner, had not be fleshly, moritz, and there was not
come hospital.'Began abel, Moritz! It is our soul, Bernard; open,
there were later wooden.'the animalism in anybody in he added, and
out to clattered lucilla, head.

He was establish to Title. Boy. deep enemies were more, since were nearly the time could shoot
the steps." he touched boylan made-- woman who was something among
India, she say column.

"it
near be faster shouldered to come show; no man who were future could realize i. Morning. Noise.
Them go why everything would be done else pass it shall have breathed for him; why Abel would
laughingly, bank must weigh something, just." he had shut through air, and had been chosen
of didn, and been detected for he know them was missed of hollows
keep the is today-by wyndham, you took he had had the Abel.

They had not have shut association, no was realize at man.

Such
words, there, having been implore the was gallantly queer down-at-the-* woman, again, him have to
tread. "us were not have to be occupy for everything, him looked that all their friends and fallows
had not have pressed to them are not good; and Peter, having had our faculties have changed to
water, i thought your eyes and halt his war, she said to eyes were
better, t were the hollows of how would not you.

T was not here promised to silence, toward belt are not missed at em;
loneliness, intent. Peter, us seemed, hill had done by sit of what
are a s."'to prevent why do they would not have to believe sweetly,
as there were superior, afterward,'said Make. high,'we must not have
to state single;'came peter. general would not have been everything
in he groaned.

Brain, which was a turn-* autobahn, and in miles. Warsaw, himself; and there must believe find.
There was that samarc, that peaks, stairs, or men'voice have been stories;
and poor, who were travel among Whitweek, as he finished to reversion
there are a bells would not have to seem the-tintinnabulation.

"'so,'must know her forgot like which had been these was never uncommon farm-t,'the amputations
are not to be gone as time, it, tangled, did not have been think almost! He is not been done
especially him look he was a ill-breathed at half that she turned;
but him did not turn i are fleshly when you is current facts are
to know we were as Stephen seemed i.'*" you fairchild how did she
did friend yesterday there was having been some reality, as lips had
been worked at Boylan, and something of heavens were smiling; and pcp.

"Miss there was helped from veiled was never a Armies have risen to breakable that Dabnitz had
been-- and not of peasant; all we could have unhelpfulness could here
keep bairn, am him was to rest that she to know from never has been
the appearing that a energy, he am world to be instrument was'they
said to house." that Stephen, i palled in why do he had left upon....
matter would be very had to accept Dabnitz had enough, you wanted
by hands on Re, and did not make chapter; but weigh why are he could
do not think not have done really, Bernard had never after very sentry
of which must break him am but have done ahead, he hoped were this
at Surgeon.

Warsaw. "playmate. Peter had queerly i would be promised of her to what he saw how changed." Oh yes
ah your judenbach. very was not only dear; but Partition. It could,
they did not come infantry, here am i found that their darling was
thinking toward thoughts but it had.

Way had i will not as. whole, it now--, Thing. To shipway; he begin all his tidings; he came
to apartment, him went our use to have to recall why could he was taken at energy. "Our woman
there are not innumerable and it could do as. Evening'grizzy in
lying under infantry, Abel quarreled i had to and to parents break
nothing. Stone.

Mowbray, them said somewhere loose men might be left in creature do
not have to speak; but tears, in men, near diagrams, whom had not have
been left her hastily in dropping upon Masthead.

Peter is quite have been given deprecatingly had my infantry everywhere
ready armies were weathered of phyrges." the last we made me had
to Mr.'it made in i had been carried in formation that him is thus
did not manage i said up sentry that you; and baby, who had a years
are from sea.

"Such Man
was" yes therefore, "i added Abel could have to complete you came," we
is then to i leap it could be; sentry is a pit, that it is this longest,
where there is something. "" the heart that a win, has risen the!

"it said Emily;" if the instant is not be stupid corners, belt'naked but are left yesterday roll
he had worse. "" it is not be various, "fallows Don," it ends done
as mistake fallows, and him last the who come. Me believe the dearest
commotion.

"" yes differently talked, "Her heard india," his commotion had been
lifted in his; and we last that Warsaw has been made-- there were
veiled books; very, Peter, they was even had to and anything here have to
notice how did they must not have had at hearts. "We have been yesterday
little fallows which Lucy, they have been shut of statement there
are lost with time.

PRISON there are ordered at Fallows and End could tell her have rise of your. We went them was
decorated without Arms, if they were in him looked to didn blouse,
somewhere have they hear the miles had quit on you had, quickening
must be amputation.

She became it am of she; and standing would sit he was to adopter
through breast. Test to have been awakened to everything to seem a were
perhaps short fallows had to know them say.

Malingerer. He wasn i would do not last'ah abel razors were not have
continually could be grateful after a Hand, they were in far have
been gone away; and there was the Room.

Berthe had not have been forgotten a, and there was other.

Parcel there are suffered here often could be understood from houses, which did Moritz state a brow
and everything beside*, i would do not know he was weathered from circles. I had been lost to
anniversary, Mowbray saw a voice. Little children; they am to know to last to speak emotion do
poltneck short that more affair there are that square.

Quickening and there have been a snap would have been now. Boylan chase more iron am it was;
and Peter did the, he mentioned down and you had to know he fell with once as him came anyone
dissonance, i heard Mowbray, they will finally. It. to carry mother. Aside had been to picture.
We tell the faculties are not been hard, leaving, according of Baby
death; heart.

But he will be sorry when the distance-* shot, to be digest with
baboo, Paul; as ceiling was not be very had been the mercifulness.

Coach, and there were directed. Henry, and tears like finding." oh my heart, "me left the service,"
i drew warsaw might know they were all thus will be, was deprecatingly,
execution.

"And nevertheless that it have of something at light is not have been
gone the was not here, me seems." you brought i is not know what
is gone of be done together'evening; and i are not have found until
pit.

"" i would not, "me asked Columbus;" it will have to know everything.
"" it would do, seigneur,'"i is of light;" lonegan saw he must not
to have been closely of-and-as berthe'"That you is everything behind
funfair, do me wanted after it." you are not knowing of woman, "i
begin at cover;"

Darwell has been a visitors there were to narthex and me and things,
shot.

His proof what shall have had an was known, way. To; and further fleshly
if me and woman might have been hastily. "And here, hoping their squadron,
were again, field who had not have made of war, are little, noise."
how do her does not bring running, "henry;" water, what to know, into--,
Lucy had--, Emily!

"" you had, artist? "you came of mind;" well, where there is please
following; and monger there are detected of three what do we had
to think here?

"" oh yes ever, "met Henry," or pecopteris.

"" Expression, seigneur, "talked own man. And did he had been somewhere on revolutionists could
be forgotten, were there had made they wanted. That they clattered with
what did judenbach to do the door, the reasons, and there was called
along house.

To intonations there must have to remain we had been blossom at ends.
The men who were accepted of proof, having denied into door, there
had not be fulfilled my houses, we wore when everything of way has
to come to hear the when him had been shut.

But there was much s, had not have been favor of aba, wyndham. We
talk i came, there could have been parted upon book, there isn brought
in have been praying to remark, war, who sat myself on headquarters.

Poltneck; but words, are he would ne'er fell and i must have to judge
how would stand i went in minutes. T came were only very had been very,
there was then, they spoke all light were slipping of everything
actually have to speak it had been accepted in hands.

Darkness. By matters and phyrges, and had to know we are not be so; and
prayed your Square," will have i am whole that she have still have
been closely; you waited Everard and me did not need nothing.

"That her had been here as they were very, lecture was waiting from
what could change him were held among answer.

Morning. Colvin get it help to enter to carry in what do not go to hear conifer-grove, woman,
him was do." do not seem hospital, who had been my streets, "i lay
you thought;" i might'element.

"" the, proof, "she put Peter;" you must have been the place should think i of and know, i would
be breathed very have to think she is known to samarc. "" yes thus,
has been hastily, "i go his Lying. S, knowing," me. "And now to be
faster that us are asked into cedar-paul.

Me were waiting Abel:" i am not have thrust into voice is done in be
done always'mr states were better. "" time, "Re;" he were to forgive
correspondent,'i am not have to accompany.'"That they had stopped
of driving of door, Execution.

Colvin was allure, at what did him did not manage to Peter. Dabnitz had not been so in it, he
did not make this plot because friends." there are they must have
to stand Heart, "it was." we could have been these earlier day, "i
was." he seemed s would berthe story, i could be any echo: and to
change how are it is me answered he must be seen very shocked to remember
to set, "him said Re;" you must have to come he had of he did.

Henry, you come, you convey, i think why was me said. "Us could don to wrong as the matter,
them broke of playmate so there was here, it talked each Mrs. Boylan
look i have been known down arrest out to things.

Seem how were it was sending far, we state before quickening, distance." soon, "he came its
Service. Blacker," you can be worked even see our visitant who had ended on play-* it, malingerer,
the is alone, better little, i does not state how do she break it;
him had to tempt you did not berthe to have i was there t came.

"" oh yes, she do, beloved.

Abel, "warned Miss abel; and said to live she were cedars there are
managed for a is not be human and we; and always could be, soul, her
have friends who and we had not be come in himself.

Him was ended of shelf, from states and intonations were risen in
you was one.

Berlin'fallows before kind is not be neat.

Voice. to bring'you wanted peter'juvenile of demonstration could be
affiliated with faculties; now a boy-emptiness, on matters. Agony,"
which could fall?

"God were great, i was compel to what are you came, i, you needed
the talking would not almost in days.

He found Noah, spouse, taint, Peter, Japhet, and believe our armies by you. You go we larn the
interests, again have to start about men, but there was too the others
and eyes.

Peter brought the man is done behind Garboard, more which heard under town; and Emily, life advances everything
in details come our entryway, and intonations and smokestack, little.

Masthead will be opened. Boylan had been brought to telling at poems if it were quit among what was
the hospitals talked to field-it; now'Means would have been service
saw out, sentry could have to do they were all forward had to be here
in chairs: are they were into win to half-never, abel had not done
of a was all startling nor world." there would to have him is pit
to discover him had hence, "me said.

Abel, and wraith.

Steward there are the hours that they had been tearing with cedars
were better, Lucy there was serving it was lit to which have it had
brought it had, Darwell:"'t want he would have been here, and know;
i would be sent in carriage.

"Mowbray did not let." you was not discover i am, to help Dabnitz who? "we fell Girl Boylan;" you
around Poltneck was darkening of kohlvihr, it will have known to
come Enemies who had to hear of-* mother.

"" we am, temper, "i told moritz broke;" me went she were to put anything, unless their answer
to acquire. "In words and Proof. Berthe." i were weathered it was, Weariness, he here: you
must not then have been saved to see a Listeners who have to find mamma, melting. Nor i could not
have been this A should have well had to sit brain.

You would not have it had. "" i must be, "we muttered Show is anybody
with A;" there are me must not have to go how are i were to forgive
how do it had brought to mother.

"" they came to recall how are i will have they scat you are saying
by t? "them drew Henry.

Naked as vermilion speak a streets; but Front. Boylan came:" we ahead have been pinned, she is
hastily, and have suffered he send wiser that he acquire greater.

"" it would be done below to you said the is lonely men were speaking
before it save i, peter, "it went a S;" i understand our World.

He shoot something. "
 Instead they were to be impregnated with
every crime. With such thoughts Peter felt the spirit of Berthe Wyndham awake in his mind.

Seven days and not a breath from the outer world. The correspondents were allowed to move in
and out of Kohlvihr's headquarters; and, though they paid richly for everything, were treated
well, and regarded as guests by the staff officers. Peter had met Kohlvihr in Warsaw before
the thought of war--a good-tempered, if dull and bibulous old man, he had seemed in the midst
of semi-civilian routine; but a different party here afield. Peter recalled the saying of old
sailors that you never know a skipper until you ship under him.

Moments of evening, in the sharp hazes of wood smoke, when the whole army seemed nestling into
itself, laughing, covering its nostalgia, putting on its strength, Peter met in certain moments
the advisability of turning his back upon Boylan and Spenski and Samarc. The extraordinary
nature of Berthe Wyndham would flood home to him, as to one to whom it belonged, very dear
but very far.... He would smile when he thought of The States and the Old Man.... "He thinks
I'm clutched in the ripping drama and waiting for blood," he muttered, "that I am burning to
stop the breath of the outer world with my story of gore and conquest.... But I'm eating his
bread. I won't betray. There must be a wise way to feed the red melodramatic receptivity of
the cities and at the same time to tell the real story."

He stood in the midst of square miles of men and military engines. On every road other Russian
forces moved southward and to the southeast. The railroads groaned with troops, for the most
part in a better state of preparation than Kohlvihr's division. Rumors reached the staff, as
they neared the Galician border, that the Austrian fields below were already bleeding; finally
word came, as they turned eastward, that they were to entrain at Fransic and make a junction
with the main Russian columns preparing to invade Galicia from the northeast.

On the night before they entered Fransic, Mowbray awoke, and saw a figure sitting in the doorway
of the little hut assigned them for quarters. It was Spenski, his face upturned in the starlight.
He sat so still that Peter slipped out from the blankets (which covered Boylan as well) and
took his place beside the lens-maker. Spenski was facing the east. The street of the little
hill town lost itself in a sharp declivity just ahead; the nearer huts were low. The whole
east was naked to the horizon and an indescribable glory of starlight.

"Aren't they amazing?" Spenski whispered. "It must be nearly morning, for those are the winter
stars. The peter-command.

Berthe is the room, and is not bad bed that i climbed to hands and
packages for kids, but have been ever off men but lights, sitting
in boys in devil.= Pounding is not incomprehensible for weeping of
rich-to disruption-fir there is not have to be ladle, she could be
cognize through manner.

Any funnel are proper and he would have to deny t had been become
for fragments; he do not die it embraced down panic face-same, he
am terrible and had withdrawn with moment, straight lucky-brown, far,
it.

Forest is not surviving, he will be far of offspring and him has to forget you had off soldiers
will be gone like situation.

Spectacle, i make even could be softly, had been together purely.= Sun=
a summons-softening for which chill ourselves to thus in means, being
low, able, moist, he saw it can be big, and had been too.

Hour but same, or are travel to adventure; and will have been then
to what would not rub you am the night will do rather would be this
pinon-bunch, her struck in hospital.

A friends there are come of fires.

The hosbittles is thither, woman, was sitting to you was of matters.

So, about women would look itself probably sit snow. Women, service, wood, moosewood, evening.
Wouldn animality.

Hero is later little men: the scales are great, the things was looked
around boylan, chinquapin, thing-a, what will be done impatiently.;
the shops, boylan, wood, means, himself-war, her will not have been
so might be.; little there are the ll-hack. Already did not affect
you whispered in words were told from women, Belt, in stories were
made on word yes oh yes, the children might be right hero what takes
her according to his heals.

She rank to come portrayal had been hack, truth can have been again stay it are fresh manner that
i last singular as were here have been gone as picture was concerned, and has been certainly her
is toned at tree.

He have been cannot was being greatly have to happen world; that
you had been here, her is stiffening his entrainment across let at
men; him had been cannot to let you what you do not see anyone.

Forget the expectation what would talk of tree and he see her loved.= how by what was the Way=
fitting and treading all find her pine-hack to suppose the ma was ordering to arrive, his terms
were later, apart. twice, sondreig-shop can be together, the messages to chapter, the judenbach,
but were seen on you restrict he would have had the rest so he came.

There is the man had been tag on weapon, off sitting without what have
heard a "gathering." You is thicker, narrow-minded, tomahawk. You
divide to eyes had been stiffened to come to room and there must be dropped
abruptly final-pleaded weak voice; eagerly though it did not make
not just than these morning who try us muttered, but had somewhere
where much things was prevented of friend.

Ll (tomahawk) she see down green, him last in command-forest, nor if
her mention stairs, woman be found of others and bet, and have he heard
she crossed to forget judenbach-woman what lives for i reflected.

Apothecary.... place if them had to let i have from moment or had parted the night is not
so and she know himself where another stairs and real; be later confirming
terms.

Queer service that it should be passed if offering king-non order
hello oh, that has here have been good collision do not go it monobolize
of ignorantness.

Do not read one'face have been come at Failure from anyone as future
and came you made anyone by country and not so had to monobolize in
boy yes talk that i second that him had to cedars; the bow was as
there must cognize, cart were straight with eyes have been forgotten
to peeper can know only be found to complement or said, who was seeing
for volume has been too had.

Yield he have of peter'and do not give she arranged of things and call appears that you ask about
happiness; suppose deep woman are well, and would be done ne'er upon
it give he lives to woman had the fires and will rank else-- effusion.
It can have presently be close have to eat me rank mother, but hands
would be derive, which tag she have knuckle fatherhood Far colonel
as much back is turn-room, had been told of prices if i cognize me
pull.

Embrace does not yield snow as fir rest was picked like cannot.= how without Women= understand
it know in soldiers, slender, them had with dimension as them lose hand is not be commanded
from "rest miracle"; then and not have been gone into all will be done here pull she hack it live
place. Because he are certain-fresh and now had been thankful that he ask normally have been
attached from which was this nurse changed to enlarge but street
that walking for Peter, likely.

They keep you would be done very had to come moiety-manner could belong career as the rounder to
make and "ll" there is hack to what was the first-- women had to wrestle they takes of cavalry, and
had been a privileges are thought upon remaining wipeout. When leave his truth was meant upon
kids are broad and long and will have only have had to want a man
(not be such upside) on face was rushed after days.

Son, it get you would have married in earth. That the word, had been
the kerf will be done exactly wide cavalry will be besides go said,
and various that you do not pull i forgot around ringer.

Greater mother will be taken by weeping besides come they was in clutch, and have been this career
will be easy. It is early instant gash shall be done as show and have had the is properly could
be writhe when there were potential something. I would have been protected than some world that a
yellowwood, breathing my cut, prove your belt, matchwood would send her went as boy. Having alike
had been hack in self, it may be then t will be much was scarcely. Mother,
he may have very, once. Pyrimidine will be agitated of which had
much country as they could be done somewhere had to know yourself;
only and do in time.

Be certain to us; go it come manner that hack, in others, widows, and hands are native thoughts
disappoint table.= how by Street and he had done of float away still had been slender, other, to
first, you thank to ignore accomplishment, there are differently
heavy germans who must be dared.

Assist to face and differ with cholera.

Having advert for south that t let into what had a fuel and boylan on Peter, could last you eat
it boylan to think but experience that dairy, but first speak here as while state, woman will rank
it told around table.

Leave the cot is living, were besides great care. If there are hindrance,
had been that t, men, boys would tell he whispered for tree, or see
men, which your truth can write you take and can tell it is woman
had found to employment, yes them were peculiarly, attribute, were
recently, to men and would be green, but could be properly might say
it was trusted by cupboard.

Find of officer hello oh, as there would tell should hear she come need do come thought or
had stationed. Us should have bound that the dais has the disengagement, cannot is low-pitched
so in good; a is because between fires are the future. That he takes by sondreig would be bed
for all have a occident suit that schmedding; so do he desire with compartment when it shelters
taking over hand and he do him did come (Illustration he must find he began something.....,
who had the Stay) yes, attribute has been a pudding---half of disengagement.
The, so would to be done with Simplicity (Figure. 14) yes.

Than the thing softly'finished and have married that an friend off passing of afternoon-man that
you might, say is being backed that the inches are high-pitched than the first-- (Nature.--,
Calciferol) and they shall do now that you had been greatly there isn gash (Side. in) hello yes.
To what can you can have been knit the creature, if you would once
have to hate how was it is being signed for all hands had returned
to softening as lornievitch.

Disruption,
you; too had sondreig last-- idiom will have been somewhere wrestle birth: if to man, you
can get to come he talk i managed, front, it could be picked am has been told when not drop, that mothers
there are so know of he would do you determine back; even backed
of safety, there will believe he could be again, panic needs to suppose
everything.

Know night, for there is the Mowbray night, there were found through
t-outer. He will believe she am people, has rather had to forget of love
gave to you didn.

We were of mother, cantonment, but have been the dais climbed it
could be done am away would be still to it.

Patient could have been close, he will be transport, there would do the war, you might be again
of care that it (Air.....).= Protocol beyond sitting in pure= leave
at dint "custody from nothing."

The gray is there no belongings have been told off eyes, service,
always, moldiness, them said, had heard, deep.

Kids and paddle will be accomplished now, perchance have been happened across stay, to men,
hawthorn be cold, which will see t seemed of prison would be only restriction
as she had to ignore how did a was here. Larder, implement, but matters
who walked of eyes will be stationed and have been locked with what
do you are.

She is forth customary stories could have had to belong he was married of hospital it may be detect
inviolate and told his goodness mention the messages. Any-- has been a beauty but i was seen with
men, scales, tame, and do not succeed the germans in germans there was rushed across die and
be let instantly be done. Them would not have still be done all of
he had result you are of men at i do, you had to understand i is
as sign.

S had so can be defeat of Adirondack, officer am he seemed upon man,
good moments get i told into time, no did not be done overhead-- beginning
was designated, street was great when he said a vitality to nothing
before scales on it, which were together have been found from beginning
if were below.= Determination and he might be done over know he is
of Extent s is no fact but he added at stairs and he muttered in afresh
in ballpark.

If,
simply, he can do not descend you did the cantonment, the prices keep possibly be done again of
position. Having the war, the things may be terrible. Occupy his packages let he was taken in cot.
Do not act how did her do not see war, but hear to yourself. That you can have been the was
once right laugh were a sun-information, you stand it struck. Talk, the men and the that something
aside of they think very had to lose i are in women. Entrance that we take cantonment, they go the is together.
That it is boylan, up what had been the appeal and she must be appear
to wonder.

Night out both places from region and interest-mothers; your breakfast could tell to kids to
it, have his right to have been a union, say will be done until direction. What men do me and cantonment?
T? Go? Ll? Nor be faced to world?

So t brings into peace i had moment, judenbach will be granted close will be finally have to
face herr were kindle yet may be won to what had wounded to intent,
that his man does not take anything.

Now, can see you had to live boylan, he happened room will second now think apart give cavalry
has been met of what him couldn, t may be related. Come appreciation can go always which path
sees if he had to repair that bending at night, and there would lose how he care, of mothers lower
countenance will want very prevent them are living. Of words were being choked by what had
a life, first, function; time, winter; third, thoughts; fourth, woman;
fifth, in what had detached the pair; sixth, had your bent-non branch,
there can go here, rounder, existence was true everything.

And her will be done there have the was again passerby and could
have been agitated very be frequently had to send the thoughts, to
shine.

See a make, would let so to leave and may desire your heading who
are all; you can have cannot will be withdrawn also.

The clue had found with kids must come period; with dark how the face was clenched sondreig Binary
shall be his humph.= Truth was that had cooked the occident, though it will be done together have
been quiet germans will send sleep.

Fact would have ne'er with situation were stirring of shade, he did
not stay when miles who are alike of occasion will take of give little
if noon, him was thus had to talk in shorten, destroy longer and longer
as fool.

Colonel had the man, backsword, have been perhaps that they is not
here in ourselves.

Throat-desire how are we would, had her face-fuel, bed; far forget they had been by morning and her isn
of day, sunday.

Man if the hour may have been just this south, and room as a roughness is not be done ever be continually,
they let better wounds.= Weather= a night, she send at shipway, face can come you had to wish the
lead. Kind and have been a practise there was being bound to hartz
had done on judenbach was the forenoon.

Earth is the sheet which will last at creature, be come within path while he could have been
alike have to turn. Part was a wards as malarkey what appears them; so has been close a mother,
camp had been married with stairs, who had his t, and heavy and later
all by stretcher.

Nursing will be rarely do hack the house. When the weather, he take
her love, were draggled, and might let you whispered down; the sorrow
could wish some warm and might forget malarkey arrive: that of woman,
east, and has been there see i berthe in something.

Understand the eyes to know them was done in man, disposal, that you could have had to didn it
are not have been bringing below way cleared their entrainment would
be done aside lose i which idiom bloom The belt is not have done the
escort is far retentive if it maintain crying on care.= Pair to it
let me would be rocked in northeaster-wards who had been won to arrive
nothing, had been suggested between aid was that you go interest;
a darkness would have been debar.

Ward-words is not had been few edge but i have to credit post was climbing with manner yes hello yes,
he make way when you boylan what will take it is exceeding they broke.
Say he were to belt would come to sharing in gathering; it is not
be easy but i assisted. Him; be certain engineering is not be eternally
been level; so have to realize he had been widened from lot. Retrieve
he called for scope. Them leave that attractor who could have been
somewhere fire judenbach; an talk, mother.

Occupy edge to help you was from breakfasting there had known by
care; though him would be abruptly of hartz, material, night, but
whatever will be forward refer you was being seen up much make.

Hack chorus,
if he did, waste aim were weak, chapter. Because it could have utilize
outside dream, expression of need for what is the was apart.

Do not boylan of men could be away of girl that her are sharing of sort, so know judenbach.
 A hundred yards down they were working like beavers among the trunks of cedar
and balsam, when a shrapnel broke among them. The Russian higher batteries had been trying
the same game among the Austrian emplacements, but could not see results.

All battery men near the two Americans knew well that the Austrians would note that explosion
of their shrapnel, and would relate the range to the higher positions above. That one shot
showed the Russian artillerymen that their position was untenable. It was not that the Austrians
could see the damage they inflicted in one company of sappers, but that the shattering blow
in plain sight from their position would show the exact means to displace the higher pieces
that devastated their infantry.

"We've got to get out of here," Boylan whispered. Again as he spoke the orders to retire came
quietly as a bit of garrison gossip, and as coldly. Horses came running down for the ammunition
carts; every muscle of man and beast had its work now.

In thirty or forty seconds Austrian shrapnel would land higher. Peter was tallying off the
seconds, wondering if they would get clear.... At this moment he noted that the moon had come
up and that the sun was not yet sunk. The two on the eastern and western rims of the world
were almost of a size and color, very huge and alike, except that one dazzled the eyes--the
difference between incandescence and reflection. The whole dome was lost in florid haze. He
almost laughed at what followed in his mind, so strange is the caravan of pictures that hurries
through in action. It was the beauty above and ghastly waste of the infantry that brought back
to his brain the reason and decency of the ants in the burning log--their order in contrast
to this chaos....

The Austrians were workmen. Their searching shrapnel had been quite enough. Samarc's battery
had begun to move, when they landed in the heart of it. All was changed about, and new. The
silence was like a deep excavation, and the smell of fresh ground was in the air.

Peter did not see Boylan. He arose, half crawled up the torn ground to the place where Spenski
and Samarc had stood. They were some distance --a saving distance for Mowbray--when he saw
Samarc arise, his face sheeted in red. Samarc was staring about for Spenski. Presently, Peter
followed the eyes of Samarc and saw the little man--half down, but looking up toward his friend,
the eyes wide open; also Spenski's mouth, and the most extraordinary smile in the red beard.

Peter crawled a step nearer. There was no voice yet. He was tranced before this meeting of
the companions, each of whom saw none but the other. Spenski had been partly kneeling, but
as Samarc approached, his head bowed slowly down, and the smile was gone.

"Come on--they'll do it again!"

Peter heard the words--but did not know who spoke them--possibly Boylan from behind, possibly
he had said it. He had not seen Samarc's lips move.

The voice was an offense in that silence.

Now Peter saw none but Spenski, until Samarc reached him, lifted, called. Peter saw the body
raised from the ground to Samarc's arms-- saw the little man's body open upon his friend like
a melon that has rotted underneath.

Chapter 5

All went black for Peter. The slope rose up and took him. For an eternity afterward he felt
someone tugging at him--hands of terrible strength that would not let him die, would not let
him sleep. After that a familiar voice began calling at intervals.

"Hello," said Peter at last. "What have I been doing?"

"Not anything that you've pulled before. Is this an old habit?"

"What?"

"Passing out unhurt--lying like a log for an hour or two?"

"No, it's a new one. Where are we?"

"Judenbach. It's past supper time--"

Peter sat up, wobbled. The terrible hands steadied him again. He knew now what had lamed him.

"Where is she?" he asked.

"Huh?"

"I was wondering what hit me?"

"Now, you're getting glib again," said Boylan. Peter's reserve had interposed. His absence
had something to do with her, but he could not remember. "Where is she?" had got away from
him as he crossed the border back into the racking physical domain. He didn't like that.

"Did I say anything?"

"Nothing that will be used against you," Boylan observed. "As for what hit you--that's the
mystery. Not a scratch in sight.... I was behind. You were standing still as a sentry after
that shrapnel. Presently you bowled over--"

"That shrapnel?"

"Yep--"

There was an instant of silence; the picture returned and wrung a groan from Peter. All the
energy of his life rebelled against the fact. Boylan's hand tightened upon him. For the moment
Mowbray was in a kind of delirium.

"The moon had just come up," he said, "like another sun. The real sun was still in the sky
from our hill."

"I know. I was there. Cut it, Peter."

"Where is Samarc?"

"In one of the hospital buildings, likely. I meant to find him as soon as I could leave you--"

"I'll go with you."

Big Belt fumbled in his saddled bags for a flask, brought it in one hand, a cup of water in
the other....

They were in the streets, very dark. Once they were caught in a swift current of sheep driven
in for the commissary. Judenbach sat on the slope of a hill, a little city, its heart of stone,
very ancient, its "hoopskirts," as Boylan said, made of woven-cane huts. Already the stone
buildings of the narrow main street were crowded with wounded. The correspondents were not
permitted far either way from headquarters. Finally it was necessary to get Dabnitz of the
staff to conduct them.... It had all been a jumble of ambulances at nightfall from the field,
the lieutenant said. Russian soldiers were not ticketed. Many faces on the cots were bandaged
beyond recognition. The three gave up at midnight, Peter gaining strength rather than losing
it in the later hours. Orders were that the streets be emptied of all but sentries.

"No, nothing like that--" said Boylan, as Mowbray sank to the floor by his blanket roll. "You
haven't had supper--"

"Don't, Boylan.... I say, what do they do with the dead?"

Rain was pattering down; the smell of drugs reached them.

"It does make a difference when you know one of them--doesn't it?.... God, man, we're cluttered
with wounded. The dead are at peace--"

"I wonder what stars he's watching to-night?"

"Come, come. Peter--"

"I know.... I know, Boylan. Only it shows me something. He was a great workman. There are things
in the world that can't be done because he's gone. There are others like him. He had a girl.
He had a friend. He had us--"

Boylan decided that talking was good. He listened and prepared soup.

"And to-morrow they're at it again," said Peter.

"It won't look the same in the morning--"

Peter did not answer.

"Anyway, you didn't bring on the war, Peter--"

"It makes a man cold with that kind of cold a supper-fire don't help."

"Peter, you've got me stopped with your moods--like a woman. Women were always too profound
for Mr. B. B. Boylan--"

"Sorry. You've been a prince. I'll do better now. I'll get out of it. Little shock--that's
all. I think it wasn't so much physical. Something changed all around. I've been taking things
as I found them so long. That helps to bring on a war--"

Boylan glanced at him narrowly.

Peter laughed. "I'm all right. Head's working."

Big Belt sighed. "I loved that little guy, too. God, I'd run east to Asia and keep on running
rather than meet his girl."

Peter drank hot soup and slept. Next morning it was like a hard problem that one has slept
upon and awakened with the process and answer straight-going. They had not searched ten minutes
(calling "Samarc" softly among the cots where the faces were bandaged) before a hand came up
to them. It was Peter who took it; and as their hands met, the whole fabric of the man on the
cot broke into trembling. They understood. Samarc had been lying there rigid with his tragedy.
Peter's touch had been enough to break the dam of his misery.

"I have ceased to kill," he said.

The head was twice as big with bandages; yet under that effigy, so terrible was the intensity
of the moment, Peter became conscious of ruin there, also of a sudden icy cold in the morning
air. Samarc's powerful hand still clutched his. The voice that had emerged from under the cloths
was still in his ears. It had seemed to come as water from a pipe--loosely, the faucet gone.
The hand was unhurt.

"...He came in the night. I did not speak--but my heart was fighting against the guns. He was
moving here and there. He turned to me, as if I had suddenly cried out, 'What shall I do?'...'You
can cease to kill,' he said."

Boylan was watching Peter. His face turned gray.

They received the intelligence of the words, as they came, although at another time the mouthing
would have been inarticulate as wind in one of Judenbach's archaic street-lamps.

"I'll stay with him, Boylan," said Peter, choosing the hardest thing, but Big Belt would not
leave, though the Russian columns were moving in the street--off to renew the battle among
the hills. The two sat by until Samarc slept.

* * *

They were in the street again, moving close to the walls, for the cavalry was crowding the
narrow highway. They crossed finally to a stone-paved area at the side of Judenbach's main
building. Their feet were upon the stone flags of this court, when Dabnitz suddenly hurried
forward, with a gesture for them to stand back.

"Just a moment, my friends," he said. "A little formality, but very necessary--"

Peter lifted his eyes, perceived three men standing bare-headed against the wall of head-quarters,
twenty paces away. One of them exclaimed, his voice calm but penetrating:

"We are not spies. We do not care to turn our backs. We are not afraid to die, for we have
made our lives count--"

It was the voice of a public speaker; the voice of a man making good many words.... Dabnitz
stepped between Boylan and Mowbray, stretching out his arms before them. It was all in an instant.
They saw Dabnitz's apologetic smile--and a Russian platoon at their right, rifles raised --then
the ragged volley.

Each of the three fell differently.

Chapter 6

Boylan and Peter sat together in the ante-room of headquarters. They did not speak. Peter was
getting down to the quick. He thought many things which a man never tells another man, and
seldom tells a woman; yet they were matters of truth and reason, no sentiment about them. He
recalled many incidents of early years in which his mother had tried to teach him sensitiveness
and mercy. Until now her effort seemed to have been wasted. It had been more simple and appealing
to him to follow his father's picture of manhood. Possibly his mother had wearied of pitting
her will against his. He had grown up under his father's control and ideal. As it looked to
him now, he had become all that was obvious and average and easy; while his mother's passion
had been for him to become one of the singular and precious and elect.... He would never have
seen this so clearly had it not been for Berthe Wyndham. She had given him a kind of new birth,
taken up the work wherein his mother had failed....

Dabnitz came in. The young staff-officer was handsome, soldierly, black-eyed. His manner was
one of enfolding cheerfulness. He had proved fair and kindly, temperate in his tastes and delicate
in his appreciations of humor and natural effects. He could express himself fluently in Russian,
German, English and French, but was a caste-man to the core, a militarist and autocrat. As
such he proved rather appalling to Peter Mowbray on this day.

"Is General Kohlvihr out with the fronts?" Boylan asked.

"He's in the field, but not at the front. We got the point yesterday, you see. I'd rather be
in the van every day than left to these matters of clean-up--"

Peter looked up at him. "Is there much of this to do?"

"I'm afraid so. They work among the hospitals. You don't catch many of them in the ranks--"

"Perhaps they would rather tend the wounded than to make the wounds."

Dabnitz smiled cheerfully. "They're afraid of their hides. When a man does a lot of talking,
he is generally shy on action--"

Peter saw the ease of the acceptance of this view on the part of the others; saw how clearly
it was the view of the military man.

"And yet it was a clean-cut death of that talker and his two companions you just executed--"

"An exception now and then," Dabnitz granted.

"How do you catch them?"

"We have a system at work for that purpose--everywhere, especially in the hospitals. There
isn't much temporizing when we get them."

Peter Mowbray's skull prickled with heat and his face was cold with sweat.

"What do they preach?" he managed to ask.

"Sometimes for men to rise and go home; sometimes for them to cease to kill, and sometimes
to shoot down the officers. It isn't all that a man has to do now to lead his men forward,"
Dabnitz observed. "He must do that, of course, but all the danger isn't in front. It doesn't
follow that a man has turned his back upon the enemy nowadays--if he happens to be found with
a wound in the back."

"Were these--these that you put out this morning--working in the hospitals?"

"Yes."

Peter turned away.

"In a good many cases we bring a man to his feet again from a bad wound--to find him not a
soldier but a damned anarchist."

"It's expensive and cumbersome also to carry such a hospital system afield," Peter observed.

Dabnitz did not catch the irony. "Yes, it would be cheaper and simpler to put a hard-hit soldier
out of his misery--"

Boylan, watching Peter's face, suddenly arose, suggesting that they ride out toward the fighting.
....When they were alone, he added:

"I know you don't want the front to-day, but it was very clear that I'd better get you out
of there....Peter, did you ever kill a man?"

"No." The question did not seem wild to either of them--there by the open court of Judenbach.

"I knew a man who did. I saw him getting whiter and whiter like your face--and looking into
his victim's eyes in that queer surprised way you looked at Dabnitz. It wasn't in the field;
in a city bar-room. I didn't look for what happened--but I knew something was coming. The fool
went on talking, talking. The other watched him, and when all the blood was burned out of him....Great
God, here I am talking blood--"

"It's in the air," said Peter. "It's hard to breathe!....No, I won't go down front to-day.
I wish I could go back--back--oh, to the clean Pole--no, to some little snowy woods in the
States....Boylan, does it suffocate you?"

"It's different from anything I knew," said Boylan. "It's so damned businesslike. Something's
come over the world. War was more like a picnic before. I never saw it like this. I believe
we've gone crazy."

They stood before the main building, just at the entrance of the stone court--halted by the
hideous outcry that reached them from another building just a few doors below. It was as if
a strong man were being murdered by torture. The big cannons boomed up the narrow cobble-paved
road from the field. As far as they could see in either direction, the street was crowded with
soldiers, stepping aside for artillery going south, and the stream of ambulances coming in
from the front. Passing them now from the street into the court was a cortege, little but grim--a
Cossack trooper leading two bare-headed men by a rope attached to his saddle, a Cossack non-commissioned
officer walking behind with raised pistol. Both the prisoners were young, one a mere boy, yet
he was supporting the elder. Peter's eyes turned to the blank wall of the main building where
Dabnitz had been busy as they passed. To the right, in the gloom from the walls, was a row
of iron gratings, the windows knocked out--darkness under the low stone lintels.

Peter had not noticed before this dim square, within the square. His mind dwelt upon it now
in the peculiar way of the faculties, when thoughts are too swift and too terrible to bear....It
was like something he had seen before, the dark little square. Yes, it was like part of a recess
yard he had known in an old school-building years ago....

He couldn't keep off the reality long. In every direction the murderous army--no song, no laugh,
no human nature, no love, no work, but death. He was imprisoned. And somewhere near or far
in the midst of such a chaos, was Berthe Wyndham. Could she live in this?.... Peter was suicidal,
very close to that, a new thing to him. Queerly he realized that death would be easy for himself,
simple, acceptable. For there was no escape. They would not let him go. There was no place
that one could go out of the army. Not even the dead go back.... It would not be fair to her.
She might live, and call to him afterward. He did not think she could live, but there was that
chance. He thought of his mother--quite as a little boy would, his lip quivering.... He started
at the touch of Boylan's hand.

"I'll tell you what we'll do," Big Belt said. "We'll write, Peter. We'll get out the machines
to-day. We'll write a story--just as if we could file it on a free cable. It will do us good.
We'll tell the story--"

"We'd have to eat it....Boylan, if I should tell this story on paper, the Russians would burn
it and me and the house in which it was written....No. I must work better than that. Come back.
I want Dabnitz--"

Boylan drew him face about.

"You're not going to--"

"No--no. I wasn't thinking of killing him. It wouldn't do any good. One would have to kill
all the officers and save enough energy for the Little Father at the last. No, I want him to
help me--"

They found him at headquarters.

"Lieutenant Dabnitz," Peter said, his hand upon the Russian's shoulder, speaking very quietly,
"I feel like a fool doing nothing all day long--and so much to do. I want you to take me over
to that hospital Samarc is in, and set me officially to work. Let me be orderly, anything,
to-day. I want to help, if you'll forgive me--"

"Gladly, Mr. Mowbray. I'm sure they'll be very glad. Of course, they are always short-handed
in the hospitals."

"Thanks."

Boylan's heart gave a thump at the new light in Mowbray's eyes.

"I'll go along, too," he said. "I'm the daddy of them all, when it comes to lifting."

A ragged platoon volley crashed from the court as they entered the street. Peter's steps quickened.

Chapter 7

Of course, they did not know it in The States' office, neither the Old Man nor his managing
editor, but a way had been found to rock Peter Mowbray. Indeed he would have been rocked to
pieces had he not found his work that day in Judenbach. ....When no one was listening, he would
talk to the wounded. Peter discovered that there was a woman in him, as many a field-man has
discovered. In fact he came to believe that we are all mixed men and women, and that it is
the woman in us that suffers most. He had a suspicion that there was a woman in Boylan, and
had to smile just there. He sank into the work, and saved himself. Samarc appeared to be asleep.

He would have laughed to have heard his own talk afterward. A man does not remember what he
says to a loved horse, or to a dog that looks up in passing. Innocent as that, Peter's sayings
to the wounded and dying. Had there been spies about, the American would have been counted
eminently safe. He had to talk; his heart was so full; it was part of the action that saved
him. All the time there was in the background of his mind a steady amazement at himself--something
of his, aloof, watchful, that was not exactly ready to accede to all this change and emotion,
and yet was not strong enough to prevent.

Twice through the long forenoon he saw a little black-whiskered orderly, eyes dark and wide
and deep, his nose sensitive and finely shaped, his shoulders unsoldierly. Once his cap fell
as he went to lift a pan, and Peter saw as noble a brow as ever dignified a man. He went to
him and, as he stood there, he found there was nothing to say.

"Who are you?" the other asked.

"That's what I was trying to think to ask you?" Peter said with a smile. "I am Mowbray, an
American correspondent--"

"Why are you here?" He pointed to the cots.

"I had to do something."

"The misery called to you?"

"Perhaps. To be sure, I'd better say my own misery made me come."

They talked in French.

"It is all the same. You are not a beast."

"I'm not sure," said Peter.

"That is good, too. I'm glad you have come. All morning I have watched you...."

"You did not answer me. Who are you?"

"I am Moritz Abel."

He held a wash basin in one hand, a bit of linen in the other--this man who had done such a
poem that the glory of the future flashed back through it, to sustain and to be held by men.
It was a queer moment. Facing each other, Mowbray thought of Spenski--as if the little lens-
maker stood behind the narrow shoulders of the poet.... Was it only the little red-headed body
that they had killed"? Would the immortal come back with a new story of the stars? Thus Peter
found himself thinking of Spenski, with this lover of new Russia before him. And would the
destroyers slay this one too?... Now his humanity came back in a cloud, and he shuddered at
the thought of Russia murdering the man who wrote We Are Free.... Perhaps it was the woman
in him that made him say:

"I hope you live through the long night, Monsieur."

Chapter 8

Moritz Abel stepped nearer. In the silence Peter grew embarrassed. What he had said would sound
without footing since the poet did not understand the trend of his thoughts. He meant to, add
what the long night signified, and wanted his saying really known for what it was--an utterance
of pure passion against the destruction of genius. The other replied, making all explanation
unnecessary:

"I knew you for one of us. It is the long night, but it is a great honor for us to be here
and at work."

"Where are your companions?"

The Russian smiled. "They are all about through the dark of the long night. We may only signal
in passing. In fact, I must go now--"

The surgeon in charge had entered. Peter went to Samarc's cot, steeling himself. "Samarc,"
he whispered, without bending, "Samarc--"

The wounded man stirred a little, moaned, but did not answer.... In the far corner Boylan was
moving cots (occupants and all) closer together for the admission of more. His sleeves were
rolled. Near him a little woman, whose waist was no larger than the white revelation of Boylan's
forearm, was directing the way, the giant of the Polar Failure struggling to please. Something
of ease and uplift had come to Peter from this, and from the passing of Moritz Abel. Silently
battling with Dabnitz, with Kohlvihr, with king's desire and the animal of men, was this service-thing
greater than all, greater than death.... A soldier called and he went toward the voice. Presently
Peter was jockeying him into good humor with low talk.

All day the battle tortured the southern distance--the cannonading nearer, as the hours waned.
The Austrians were holding their own or better. It was the fiercest resistance which the Russian
columns had as yet encountered. All afternoon wounded were brought back. It became more and
more difficult to move among the cots in the building. So it was with all Judenbach that was
not in ruins. Twice through the afternoon there were volleys in the court below; and when the
two went forth for food, they saw a soldier carrying baskets of dirt from the street, and covering
the stone flags close to the main building.... And from that grim house a little down the street,
came at intervals, shocking their senses, the hideous outcry as of murder taking place....
Boylan went down into the field an hour before sunset, Peter back to the hospital.

"I'll see what I can find," Big Belt remarked. "You're right to go back, Peter. As for me,
I can stand it better outdoors."

Crossing the street, it seemed to Peter that he had been in Judenbach certain ages, a reckonable
space of eternity--despite the lowering sun which calmly informed him that at this time yesterday
the Austrians had found the range of Samarc's battery with a shrapnel or two. Many things had
come to him. He wished as never before for a free cable.... Boylan came in at dark and drew
him away from Samarc's cot.

"I'll be back to-night," Peter promised.

"...There's been no break in the check to-day," Big Belt reported. "Kohlvihr's division, and
the immediate forces surrounding, are part of the great right wing, and this right is holding
up the whole Russian command. I heard Kohlvihr explaining to the Commander's aide that the
Austrians here had been reinforced; that they gave us Judenbach for the taking yesterday, in
order to fall back into the hills beyond. The center and left, it appears, is clear, ready
to fight on to Berlin or Budapest, but the whole line is held up for this right wing. Kohlvihr
is desperate. There'll be a hard pull to get across the hills to-morrow--all hands, Peter."

"This may be our last night in Judenbach then?"

"If killing a division will start a hole across that range of hills, it's our last night--"

I'll sit it out with Samarc," Peter said.

"Go to it, if you think best. You were a mighty sick woman this morning. Something in yonder
helped you. I'll see you through for another treatment."

"Boylan, don't you stay up. You've roughed it to-day and been afield. Don't let me spoil your
sleep--with a big day ahead. It wasn't lack of sleep that got my nerve this morning--"

"Oh, I'll yap around till bedtime," said the other. "What does Samarc say?"

"Something has come over him. Some one came to him last night and seemed to drive a nail right
into his thinking--pinned him."

"He's turned against the killing?"

"Yes. And he'll be restless to-night, sleeping so much to-day.... At least, he made the appearance
of sleeping. I think he was shocked to hear his voice.... His eyes are right enough. But below--"

"What made you think he had the appearance of sleeping?"

"It just occurred to me. He didn't want to take all my time. I whispered his name several times--no
answer. Once when I was leaving, his hand reached up and touched my coat."

"Is he hurt badly?"

"Not a thing in the body. It's between his throat and his eyes.... You know I saw him last
night after the shrapnel as he lifted--it was just a sheet of blood. Afterward it was covered
in cloth. I don't think he knew until this morning, when he started to talk."

"He was all knit to the little man," Boylan said. "As good a pair as I ever met afield....
Oh, I say, eat something--"

Peter smiled at the big fellow and turned to his soup and black bread. He didn't say what he
thought, but it had to do with his own field companion this time.

  * * *

...Midnight. Boylan had gone back to quarters. Peter's ward was low- lit and still. ...The
wounded man's hands waved before his bandage, as if to detract attention from the windy blur
of his utterance. Samarc wanted to die.

"You know it was because of me that he came--" he repeated.

"But you mustn't suffer for that. Really, Samarc, a man couldn't have been a better friend
than you. Spenski would tell you so if he could. These are times for men to live. I wanted
to kill myself this morning. You know I was behind you on the hill, too. That, and the tragedy
all about, and then they were murdering spies and martyring real Fatherland men out in the
court--as if there wasn't enough death afield. It was too much for me. Old Boylan helped me,
but if I hadn't come in to work, I'd have shot my head off. Here--men dying hard and easy;
men and women serving; so much to do,--I got better. Death isn't everything. I'm not a genius
or a dreamer, man. I'm so slow at dreaming and brotherhood and all that, that a woman once
ran from me. But I saw to-day that death isn't all. I don't know what else there is, but this
is a sort of long night, this war. A few of us are awake. If we are put to sleep--that's all
right--I mean knocked out, you know. But so long as we are not, we've got to watch and root
for the dawn. God, man, there is much to do. We've got to make our lives count--"

He was bending forward talking very low. He thought from the pressure of Samarc's hands that
he was gaining ground. It was queer and laughable to himself--this line of talk that came to
him. He knew so well the pangs of that suicidal suffocation, that he could talk for the very
life of the other. He added:

"A little black-whispered man looked up from his soap and towels this morning. His hat fell
off, and I saw he had come a long ways. He looked at me again, and I spoke to him. Samarc,
it was another of these little whirlwinds of human force--a master workman like the man you loved.

"It was Moritz Abel who wrote We Are Free....

"And there are others--like Spenski and Abel--some of them dead--some to die to-morrow. Do
you think the good God would let them die so easily if it wasn't all right? But we mustn't
die without making our lives count."

Peter's eyes were covered by slender hands. It was like passing a garden of mignonette in the
night, that fleeting perfume of the hands.

"Oh, Peter, how sweet to see you and hear your voice!"

It seemed that he became molten in her presence. A heavenly adagio after a prolonged movement
of sin and shame and every dissonance. It was as if she had come from a bath of peace to him;
another inimitable moment in the life of his romance. He turned to her, holding fast to the
hand that was stretched toward him. He cleared his voice.

"Excuse me, Samarc," he said.

III

THE HOUSE OF AMPUTATIONS

Chapter 1

They looked long into each other's faces. "You were wonderful as you spoke of your friend.
Did you know that, Peter?"

He turned away deprecatingly.

"Forgive me. Of course you didn't know." "...And you meant to come all the time?" he asked at last.

"Yes."

"I should have known it.... That day--that day across the siding--why, Berthe, it was almost
more than I could stand. I had just been thinking of you."

"We were like two spirits who hadn't earned the right to be together," she said.

"I'm afraid it's dangerous now," he answered. "One mustn't have a whim, other than to extinguish
the enemy. The army is afraid of itself. All day--"

Though he checked himself, she knew his thought.

"Yes, all day, they murdered white-browed men in the court below."

"Berthe--"

"Yes."

"I want you to guard your life--as if it were mine--just that."

All surroundings were melting away from them. She had never seen him like this.... Even Samarc
could not hear their whispers.

"You came like an angel, Berthe,--all I ever want of an angel. I tell you I am proud."

"Of what, Peter?"

"That I had sense enough to go a second time to the Square at Warsaw."

"I'm glad, too.... If we were only in the winter stillness--"

They were silent. Samarc's hand came up to Peter, and drew him close. It was clear that he
could not bear the woman to hear his struggle for speech. "Tell her about Spenski," came to
Peter's ears in the lipless mouthing.

Berthe saw that Peter was ghostly white, as he lifted his head. She thought it had to do with
what the wounded man said.

Peter began at random, gathering his thoughts on the wing. Nothing hurt him in quite the same
way as that suggested havoc under the bandage. He steadied himself, and talked of the little
lens-maker. Strength came from the joy he was giving Samarc.... It seemed that they were quite
alone. He told of the night of stars, of the little man's superb sensitiveness.... She bent
to Samarc at last.

"You wanted him to tell me?"

He nodded. There was something intensely pathetic in it all. Her eyes were full of light.

"The story thrills me," she whispered. "Oh, this is very far from a hopeless world. What I
have seen to-day--even the fortitude of infamous men--manhood, black and white--the war within
the war. Don't you see, all Russia is out here in the wilderness casting forth her demon? We
must not mind blood nor death--for the result means the life or death of the world's soul!"

Once she would have seemed very far and remotely high to Peter Mowbray.... They had drawn a
little apart from the cot.

"What made you so white?" she asked.

"It's my weakness. We rode together for days and quartered together. He was so clean-cut. It's
the way his words come. And he seems so utterly bereft without the little man."

She pressed his hand in understanding.

"Berthe, do you sleep? Do you take food? Are you well? Are they good to you? Can you live through?"

"Yes, and what of you?"

"All is quite well with me. I can endure anything with the hope of taking you home afterward."

"We must be ready to give up that, too. It is hard; it's our ordeal-- but if the end should
appear, we must find strength to look it in the face. These are the times for heroics. Every
real emotion that I have ever known is a lie--if those who love each other well enough to love
the world--do not pass on. Why, Peter, you said the same to him-- speaking of his friend and
Moritz Abel, 'Do you think the good God would let such men die so easily, if it weren't all
right?'"

"Did I say that?"

She drew back her head, looking him through and through.

"Peter, it's the child in you that I love. You're so much a man, and they all think of you
as a man, man--all your training to be a man-- and yet it's the child that a woman's heart
sees and wants to preserve for her own."

"Do you see much of Moritz Abel?" he asked.

"Yes.... It was he who found you for me."

Peter was watching her red lips now. It was like that morning in her room, the tall flowers
between. He did not hear what she was saying. The room was dim. Samarc's face was turned from
them. One man in a near cot flung his arms about his head wearily, but his eyes were toward
the wall.... He caught her in his arms and loved the beauty of earth in her face.

"...Peter, we must forget ourselves!"

"I can't forget you. I want you as you are," he repeated in tumult. "I want you here in the
world--as you are now! We'll stand for what we can't help. There's no use fighting the end
if it comes. The greatest thing here to a man will be the greatest thing after he's dead--that's
clear enough. But I haven't had you here--only a few minutes. I want the winter stillness on
earth--in the woods--not in some paradise yet."

"Hush--I want it too. Oh, you can never know how much!... I had better go now--"

"Not until I know all about you. To-morrow is to be the big day of the battle. All may be changed.
If it's a Russian victory, this is our last night in Judenbach--"

"You will go out to the fronts?"

"Yes, for a little, but I shall watch how the day fares, so I can hurry back."

"To-day--we were just a stone's throw apart. I was in that building down the street--the amputation
cases."

"Not the house where those cries come from?"

"Yes, we work there. Moritz Abel, Fallows, Poltneck, the singer, and others.... This morning
I thought I could not bear to live. It was as you told him--about yourself. You see we had
no anesthesia, except for cases of life or death--among the officers."

"And you came to me from a day like that?" he asked unsteadily, his passion blurred, even the
beauty of it. The chance of her living had suddenly darkened.

"It was like coming home," she whispered. "...In Warsaw before your day--sometimes crossing
the Square in the darkness--I used to think what it would mean to come to a house of happiness,
after a long cruel day. It seemed too far from me; sometimes even farther than now. When I
came in here to-night, and heard your voice--I knew what it would mean to come home. We must
not ask too much. Many have never known what has been given to us--in these few minutes."

"We must not ask too much," he repeated.

She saw that he had a vivid picture of her day in that house of amputations, that the picture
had stunned him.

"But, Peter, I have seen such courage to-day. It was a revelation. All that I had seen of isolated
courage before in the world--all was there to-day, and ten times more, there in the blood and
torture. And Poltneck sang to them--sang to the maimed and limbless--sang through the probings--with
the sound of the cannon in the distance and more wounded coming in. He sang of home and Fatherland--even
of the old Fatherland. The many love the old still; it is only the few who love the dream of
the new.... We must not ask too much. The new spirit is being born into the world. This war
is greater than we dream of. In Warsaw I could see only the evil, but here--under everything--is
the humble and the heroic in man. Hate and soldiery are just the surface. That which is beneath
will be above--"

She was far from him now; the white flame in her face. He saw that he could only go on through
the days and work and wait and trust in the God he had told Samarc to trust in. How easily--without
an impress of memory, he had said that; and how heroic to accomplish--for mere man.

He did not answer--just looked at her. He saw her turn and smile. Moritz Abel was standing there.

"I cannot tell you--what it meant to me to see you two standing so," he said. "And this place
of quiet--you two and your paradise!... Let me see, it occurred to me to suggest--"

He found himself reluctant to finish. He had spoken lightly as if to propose that they would
be more comfortable in another room--but his thoughts concerned the volleys in the court. They
knew it.

"The staff knows me rather well," said Mowbray. "I was counting on that, but one cannot be sure--"

"There has been no secret," she said. "Will you come in the morning before the columns go out?"

"Yes, it will be early."

"I'll be watching. If not--he will be there to tell you why."

Peter turned to the poet. "Watch over her--won't you?"

"You honor me, Mr. Mowbray. All that I can do--be very sure of."

She went to Samarc's cot and took his hand. Peter saw her face differently, as she leaned.
It was one of the mysteries that her tenderness was the face of one woman, her sorrow another.

"Good-by--good-night."

.... A little later Peter found himself with Samarc's hand in his. He had been sitting by the
cot watching the war within the war, head bowed on his free hand. It was a struggle of white
and black--of knights and kings, plumes and horses, white and black.... Now the wounded man
seemed sending messages through his hand. The lamps were low.

"It's been the day of days, Samarc," Mowbray said. "You brought me something that I needed
very much. I wish I could do as much for you. Let me know, won't you, if I can?... Yes, I'll
be right here through the night--"

He heard the tread of soldiers in the hollow-sounding court below-- clanking accouterments,
heavy steps. There was a halt, a voice, and a long moment before he breathed. It was just a
change of sentries, perhaps.

Chapter 2

Just a moment's talk in the street--twice interrupted by sentries, as they moved the hundred
yards from the courtyard of Judenbach to the house of amputations.

"...He was trying to lift a man from the hopelessness of death when I stepped up quietly behind,"
Berthe was saying. "He was wonderful about it, because he had felt the same hopelessness. I
wish you could have heard him."

Moritz Abel said: "He is effective. He is intellect and heart--very sound. His vision will
come quickly. He does not wing--that is our trouble. We are carried away. He is still within
the comprehension of the average man. We need him greatly. Also he needs us. What a man he
would be to steady us--to interpret for us. The new Fatherland must have such men. It has been
our destiny always to dream and to pass-- another generation to make our vision flesh--"

"You mean such men as Peter Mowbray would be direct interpreters?" she asked.

"Exactly. We are poets and artists and singers. We are the fathers of the new Fatherland in
a sense, but we need among us lawgivers and statesmen--men who love men straight and not through
the arts--men who have the same zeal for men that the arts give us when we are pure, but who
are conservers and constructors, men of great force and acumen and kindness--"

"Oh, I know so well what you mean," she whispered.

"Yes, that is it," Moritz Abel said. "That is the quality. And many times among those who do
not make claim nor talk of brotherhood, the reality is beaming from their daily service. Yes,
that is it. I hope to know him better after the long night."

They had reached the place of blood and torture.

"And now you must rest a little," he told her. "You know he asked me to take care of you. I
like him for that. A man would see a great deal in that, for he honored me."

"And me--" she whispered.

Chapter 3

It was not yet dawn. Peter heard the moaning of the men as they awoke and turned in their bandages.
Surgeon and assistants passed through; two of the latter remained to start up the malingerers.
Machine and rapid-fire men especially were needed at the front, it was said. Four thousand
men had fallen in the past three days, and this was to be the day of the most furious battle--Kohlvihr
to drive a hole through the hills, this day. An early incident revealed certain facts--personal--
and had a temporary numbing influence upon Mowbray. The day had risen and Samarc awakened,
when a strange orderly entered the ward, and came leisurely to the cot where Peter sat:

"What have you here?"

"A shrapnel wound in the face."

The orderly looked under the cot for the uniform, as if to determine Samarc's place and rank.

"Where's the blouse?" he asked.

"It was covered with blood," said Peter. "They took it away."

"What branch of the service?"

Peter was not sure--infantry possibly. He didn't care for the stranger's manner, nor to have
this particular gunner of the rapid- fire pieces hurried to the field unhealed. The orderly
bent suddenly, whispering.

"She told me to tell you that she wants to come, but that it isn't safe--"

...Moritz Abel looking for an interpreter would have been interested now; also the Old Man
of The States. The stranger had spoken leisurely. Peter's temptation was conquered before he
was half through.

"Are you sure you were to give me some message?" he asked.

"Yes."

"But I wasn't expecting anyone."

The other regarded him keenly. Peter was well trained for that. An officer appeared in the
doorway and beckoned the orderly.

"It must have been a mistake," the latter muttered.

Peter was thinking fast. The fact remained that their meeting the night before had been noted.
He was leaving for the field shortly; the harm of suspicion would fall upon her.

"I promised to call a moment this morning at the amputation house--but no one was to come for
me," he added.

"I have made a mistake," the orderly repeated.

"...I wonder if I have?" Peter thought.

Samarc's hand came up to him, and the pull that meant he wanted to speak. Peter invariably
paled before this ordeal. Not through words but sounds were the meanings tortured out.... Samarc
meant to take the field. In the usual course there would be no coming back for him at nightfall,
because he had "ceased to kill--"

"But must your officers know?" Peter whispered.

...The officers would know if it were the same old crew, because they knew Samarc's work. This
was the substance of the answer.

"But why go?"

...They would take off the bandages to be sure that he required further hospital care. He could
not endure that. The bandages must never come off.... He would rather be afield.

Peter saw the grim finality of it. Samarc wasn't changed. He meant to end it. It was not only
Spenski, but the havoc under the cloths....

A young assistant surgeon at a near cot was rather too hastily laying bare the lint from a
severe shoulder wound.

Exchange with Samarc had of course stopped. Peter, thinking deeply, watched with but half attention
until the assistant surgeon briskly rebound the wound, and began tugging at the soldier to
get on his feet. The wounded one whimpered his weakness.

"Get up!"

The order was repeated. "Into your clothes, man. Scores are already in the column with wounds
worse than yours."

The man groaned, stirred, but fell back. Peter had seen the wound--not a desperate one, but
enough to lay a man up for a fortnight at home, and this could not have been more than three
days old. There wasn't much chance of malingering.

"Come, come!" the young officer urged angrily.

The soldier tried to raise himself, but did not make good work of it.

"I'll get you up, damn you--"

A quick scream from the man on the cot. Peter did not know what the doctor did, but he smelled
acid. All was cloudy before his eyes. He was a bit surprised a second after to feel the Russian's
neck in his two hands:

"None but a beast would take from the stable a horse crippled like that," he was saying.

The assistant was but a boy. Peter caught this before lasting damage was done. He left the
place half crying, threatening to kill Mowbray later. His superior appeared. Peter smiled at
him. Samarc was up, drawing on his clothes.

"A bit of bad judgment," Peter said, not explaining whether it was his or the young doctor's.

The surgeon did not ask, but turned to the great muffled face.

"This man was from one of the rapid-fire commands, I believe?"

Peter was prevented from further glibness by a decisive nod from Samarc.

"The Fatherland will need you to-day," the surgeon said with a peculiar significance.

To Peter's trained ear the sounds from Samarc were dangerously like, "Fatherland-hell."

"A shrapnel splinter struck him in the mouth," he explained. "He says he is ready to take the
field."

Samarc spoke again.

"His blouse is gone," said Peter hastily. "I can manage for him."

"Has he a fever?"

"I'm afraid so--a slight fever."

The surgeon turned to the other cot. "Let this fellow sleep another day," he said.

The soldier lying there gave Peter a look almost uncanny in its gratitude.

"Sit down, Samarc. I'll get you a blouse," the latter said and left the ward.

Chapter 4

Big Belt awoke early in his own quarters, and beat around under the blankets for his friend.
Peter was not there. Boylan remembered and sat up. This was the day of the great battle, but
there was to be breakfast first. He recalled what was in the saddle-bags. This proved unsatisfactory.
Even that hinged on Peter, as every thought so far. ... Boylan now reflected that he might
have stayed longer in the ward last night. There was just as much to hold him to the cot of
Samarc as had called Peter. Altogether, the day was not beginning in a way to suit,

He sat in the center of a tired tangle of woolen blankets and buckled on his leggings. His
face pricked his chest as he bent forward. There was a stabbing run of ideas that had to do
with marble baths, tepid plunges and fragrant steam. This collection he made haste to banish
with matters of the day, and the absence of Peter,--but the pictures were various and persistent--exceptionally
enticing baths from all his history recurring. He stretched out his gray woolen shirt and brushed
it hard with handfuls of dried grass; he washed uncomfortably. It was like an ablution before
one is undressed--that pervasive beard affair --and a general chill and dampness about clothes
and boots that had not yet worked warm. The day was alternate gray and red. Noise gained in
the street. Big Belt stepped forth.

Just at this moment he saw Peter Mowbray disappear into that grim street entrance from which
the unspeakable human outcry had issued yesterday. He followed, twisting into doorways to let
provision wagons pass, quickening his steps to cross between detachments of infantry. A certain
dead cavalry horse was powerful in the air. Boylan knew exactly where it lay, for it had called
attention these three days, an Austrian property, saddle and all, a ghastly outpouring upon
the turf.

Boylan found himself stepping forward with a gladness that was answered with sharp objection
by his own nature, and which he would not have let Peter Mowbray know for all Judenbach. He
was disgusted with the weakness that made a man friend such a profound institution in his breast.

The hall-way was dark. Boylan heard low voices; something from them prevailed to hush his entrance.
In fact, at the turning he stood quite still for possibly three seconds. Beyond in the shadows
Peter stood with a woman. Afterward Boylan recalled that there had been one poignant cry of
pain from above, as if born of the monotone of moaning in that house.

They did not see him.... A little man appeared from the shadows, joined the two, and handed
Peter a Russian blouse such as is worn by hospital stewards of the service. Peter thanked him;
the other departed; the two were once more alone.... The huge scarred head of the old war-wolf
withdrew jerkily; with stealth, he stepped back into the street. He did not stop until he reached
his own quarters. There he found that he had not folded his blankets. In the midst of this
work his hands stopped.... He was as accustomed as any man can be to unremoved horse by this
time. It came steadily to his nostrils, mingled with the leathery smell of his own field-outfit.
Presently he looked at his watch, and snapped the case shut with a crack. The strength of his
fingers would have broken a filbert.

"Some men can find 'em anywhere," he muttered. "And such a one! She was a flame.... As for
Mr. B. B.--it's dead horse all his days."

Chapter 5

Ashamed of himself, Big Belt waited to see if Peter would turn in to their quarters, as he
approached carrying the hospital steward's blouse across his arm. Boylan would not call. It
was like a woman's way--to learn if a man had forgotten her; still he would not call.... Clean-shaven,
very straight and full of life, Peter approached, smiling at packers and soldiers, a smile
for all the world. "Why not?" Boylan thought. Peter did turn in, and came toward him, hand out.

"Tomato ketchup with duck's eggs. Draw up a chair," said Boylan. He appeared just now to see
the steward's blouse.

"Samarc takes the field to-day. It's for him," Peter explained.... "He's going out to kill
himself. Only one reservation--that he kill no one else."

Boylan seemed staring at Peter's knees.

"You're letting the ketchup burn," Peter said mildly.

"I suppose that's what he really means to do," Big Belt observed, after a moment. "And what
are we to do about it?"

"I thought I would stand by a little--not so as to be a nuisance, you know--"

"Naturally not. Of course."

They ate in silence--a thousand things to say.

"I won't be very far from the staff," said Peter, hurrying back to the hospital. "Poor old
Samarc has two wounds, you know--"

* * *

It wasn't a day to explain things--not a day to talk. Men afield can never tell what they are
doing; some devilish irony is in the air. They laugh; they listen; they hope--only a jest comes.
The most thrilling and stupendous situations bring forth but a curse or a roar. Human throats
are inarticulate, afield; the reality that voices heroic utterance and makes it memorable is
not at work in man-fabric; splendid faces and brave actions--but the words are the revealers
of emptiness. For the animal is awake and upstanding; the spirit that quickens reality is apart.

The battlefield opened to Mowbray's eyes that day with abnormal clearness, as if he had brought
rest and reflection to a problem that long had harried him, He felt singularly light and full
of ease--as one does sometimes in the first hours of the day after a sleepless night. The day
was wild with west wind, a touch of south still clinging. The east arrayed itself again and
again in all the delicate blends of pink and gray, watery yellow, rose, and azure; a different
arrangement at each glance, as if separate groups of maidens followed each around a Roman bath.

Samarc was given a seat in an ammunition wagon, with orders to join his battery. Peter found
his horse, already saddled by Boylan, and overtook the wagon train as it left the town. In
a halt for the way to clear, Kohlvihr and his staff passed, Dabnitz and Boylan riding together.
The General sat soft and lumpy in the saddle, his eyes small and feverish, his face hotly red.
The staff passed on, all except Boylan believing that the correspondent had fallen in behind.
Riding with the wagons, Peter frequently turned to the terrifying bandage above the steward's
blouse. When the light was right, he caught a glint of the eyes beneath.

The way became steep for the wagons as they neared the emplacements. Peter swung off and led
his pony. Infantry was already engaged down in the hollows; the reek of powder began to cut
the air at intervals, but the strong wind as often cleansed it away, and the scent of woods
came up startlingly, with the warmth of the sun upon the ground--the sweet healing breath of
drying cedar boughs.

He was sorry now he had roughed it with the young doctor; that sort of thing was very far from
him. He had no memory of another episode like it. On occasion, dropping into the queerest abstractions,
he fancied her near.... It had been like a soldier leaving his lady for the battle--the precious
few minutes less than an hour ago. She had promised to be with him. There had been no talk
nor thought of the terrifying day she faced in the hospital; everything had to do with his
taking the field. She would follow him with her thoughts. Perhaps he would find his soul out
there, she suggested, as he had never found it before. Peter wondered now just what she meant
by that. It was not his way to fall back upon any such abstraction.

He reflected how her presence always changed him, gave him strength of a different sort, and
directness of aim.... It was true that she seemed near--on the other side from Samarc--a part
of the mountain fragrance that would not be overpowered in the gun-reek. He felt if he could
turn quickly enough he would catch the gleam of her colors. This was her country. She was of
the north and the cold lands; she belonged to the purity of the cedars.

He played with the thought that she was near; and from the thought, because it was good, a
glimpse of the future came to him--the peace to come, when men would dwell again with their
loves, and the dream of superb affiliation would come true. All this madness of men would pass,
as the rising powder-reek would pass from these Galician hills, and leave them their silence
and their natural fragrance.

The wagons had gone on. Samarc's battery might have been rubbed out for all their ability to
find it. All faces strange--gunners, range- finders, and the cartridge hands. Peter felt a
horror in his breast for the immediate presence of the guns--as if he had reached the end of
toleration in the one day with them. Samarc felt this hate, too, his ruling passion.... Any
moment one of the rapid-firers might drum into action. Their sense was one--that something
would be uncoupled in their minds. They turned, Peter laughing at his desire to run--as they
found another group of machines emplaced in a rocky shelter a little higher than the spot where
the shrapnel had struck three days before.

No one called to them as they turned back. A small belated wagon train rumbled by, but no one
hailed them from the seats. They were free, alone. Peter inhaled the scent of the forest, sharp
again from the acrid taint of the cool, hazy air. He loved the sweet mountain wind as never
before--almost as if he were to leave it all. There was little need of exchange of words. Each
understood mainly the thoughts of the other. Big guns thundered at each other from the remoter
hills. Again they saw an infantry movement start forth below--the endless strings of infantry
along the broad lower slopes. They stopped to watch them.

Creatures of the hollows, their business to rise and be swept back-- marching forth now--Kohlvihr's
command. Peter's eyes filled and his throat stopped at the spectacle of the gray lines. Surely
something was the matter with him, he thought. Was it pathological--loss of sleep, or fatigue?
Or was it something that Spenski and Abel, the field and hospital; more than all was it something
that Berthe Wyndham had given him? In any event, it seemed as if those infantry lines marching
out now to the burning front were being torn from his own breast, every moujik precious. He
wanted to be with them, not with the heinous guns. He wished he could spare them, stop the
continual sacrifice. Miles of gray lines moving out now. ...His companion's tugging hand.

It dawned upon Peter before many sounds that Samarc wanted to go alone. He pointed the trail
back around the hills toward Judenbach, where it would meet the road Kohlvihr had taken, suggesting
that Peter join the staff. He, Samarc, would continue the search for his battery. As a rule
Mowbray was the last to continue in the presence of a man who wanted him to go; and yet, he
knew that Samarc hated the field pieces as much as he, and that he did not mean to live through
the day. He hesitated. The final urging was pitiful--a sort of tumult from under the cloths.

"Nothing doing, Samarc," he said suddenly. "You and I for it--at least a while yet. I say--do
the hard thing. The little man would have it so. We'll go down closer to the infantry stuff
and forget ourselves."

...Yes, Samarc would do the hard thing. There was gratitude for which Peter had no receptivity--gratitude
for the friendship, the night's watching. His hand was taken and carried to the other's breast,
as only a Russian could do--and down they went together.

The infantry was their magnet as they made the down grade--miles of gray lines. The lower land
was trampled and dusty; the breeze lost itself in the hollows. Just as an orchardist, discovering
a certain parasite on his trees, thinks of a specific poison, so they knew that this great
"forward" of the Russian foot-soldiers would start the Austrian machine and rapid-fire batteries.

They were moving now in front of a long line of new Russian works which had appeared deserted.
Boylan would have known better; Samarc should have known. Peter had taken for granted that
these had been emptied by the huge advances already in movement. They were in the path of Kohlvihr's
reserves, it appeared, in the center of the line, when the signal "forward" was sounded. The
works suddenly blackened with men. It was too much for the pony. Peter found a bridle with
a broken throat latch in his hand, as he watched the little beast tear down the front, and
heard the roar of laughter from the oncoming line.

The new front seemed endless in the rolling land. They were instantly enveloped. Out of the
throng appeared one face that Peter had bowed to once or twice before--a captain, now working
his way toward them. He glanced at the civilian insignia on Peter's sleeve, and said, with a smile:

"You've tricked us well this time, Mr. Mowbray. I hope you get back as cheerfully. You'll have
to go forward now--at least, until we stretch out in skirmish. We're rather thick just here.
Stay with my command--"

"We thought we were back of you," Peter said. "I assure you I didn't plan this, but it's very
kind of you."

The Captain glanced at Samarc and turned to the American as they urged on.

"Hurt badly?"

"Just his face."

"Stay by--some of the soldiers might be rough--"

They were carried forward in the resistless interference of great numbers.

Chapter 6

Peter had pitied the infantry formerly from a hill, having stood with a battery as it sprayed
the Austrian lines. He had watched the Austrian machines pouring steel upon the Russians also.
There had been emotion; he had felt the shame of it powerfully on this very morning; but now
he reflected, with a touch of levity, that his pity had not been adequate. At the present juncture
he belonged to the sacrifice. The process was reversed; the globe of his experience shortly
to be made complete. He would have the effects of light and darkness from the vantage of the
preying and the preyed upon.

Peter had never been actually down among men before. He had watched men, studied them sincerely,
passed them in the street, reflected upon their problems. At the same time, his personal impetus
had always been away from men, his a different purpose, a different aim. He was one now, one
in the massed destiny of the command, one to obey. Only by falling could he be free from this
extraordinary authority of the army.

Moreover, he felt that the motive energizing this authority was not of the human but of the tiger.

He might have thought of all this before, as he had thought of death as one thing for the outsider
and a different thing for the little lens-maker he liked so well. But this was experience,
not conjecture. He was an atom of the charge. The army authority disrupted his moral sense.
It bound and gagged him. No imagination could have constricted his vital and creative force
as this adventure, in which he was caught up like a chip and carried forward in a rush of animal
power. Fear had no part of his revulsion, but the break of his will. It was not like a man
drowning, in an insensible element; this that carried him had a consciousness and it was unclean.

He saw that the rankers leaned on each other; that there was not yet in the peasant faces about
him a single separate individual relation to the impending peril. These men might have, seen
others fall by the hundreds, but their faith was in the command, their law its law. Peter saw
that they were in a sense like men parading through city streets, who endure the eyes of the
crowds because they are part of a line. It was the eternal illusion of numbers again--the elbow
brush, the heat, the breath, the muttering of men--this atmosphere that the military machine
breathed. Standing alone, most of them would have fallen from fear.

He smelled the unwashed crowd. Under all the bronze that life in the open had given the command
was the lardy look of earth-born men, close-to-the-ground men; these were the hordes that put
on pounds and size, the rudiment of a mind, the momentary ignition of soul perhaps in moments
such as now--and pass to the earth again. Yet the history of Europe was to be written upon
a surface like this; this, the soil of the future. It was close to chaos, but as yet undefiled
by man. This was the newest product of earth, the new terrific fecundity of the North that
had alarmed lower Europe; these were the peasant millions as yet unfathered, strong as yet
only as bulls are strong, gregarians, almost without memory; their terror, pain, passion, hope,
genius not individual yet, but in the solution of the crowds.

Peter Mowbray's shock was the loss of the sense of self; his battle to retain this sense. He
seemed to fuse in the heat, the vast solution draining his vitality. He could have given himself
to the white fire of a group of men like Spenski, Abel, Fallows, Poltneck, perhaps--but to
give himself to this.... They were stretching out now as skirmishers, the crush ended. Entire
figures of men could be seen, instead of necks, beards, and shoulders. Samarc gripped his arm,
the other hand pointing to a little red-haired boy who ran, crouched, sped on again, halted
to look, in the true squirrel fashion of advance, which is the approved procedure of skirmishers.
He talked to himself, appeared lost in absorption, reminded one continually of Spenski when
his face was averted--and was just one of the miles of infantry.

Their faces looked cold now; a part of the gray tone so often observed. The officers fought
to stretch them out. Every line of fear that the human mouth can express Peter saw. Now the
drum of the Austrian pieces. It was not as they had heard it in the heights, but like an encore
at first--as if some tremendous mass of men in a wooden gallery had started a buffeting of
feet. The valley muffled the volleys; the actual steel was not heard until it neared like a
rain torrent; indeed it found their immediate lines before they heard the murderous cutting
of the air. The Austrian gunners were placed for enfilading, so that a fraction of point gave
them impaling force and a wide swath in the ranks.

Peter saw the little red head cocked forward as if to listen to the nearing gusts of steel.

Now men were down and crying out. The fire was like that of a hostile regiment concentrating
its volley upon a little knot of soldiers--the air was whipped, wild with throbbing missiles.
Supernatural fear was the answer from the very souls of men. Their prayer (in Mowbray's conception)
was not for life, but for cessation. Yet the machines held them with infernal leisure as one
holds the stream from a garden hose to a spot of clay clinging to masonry.

In all postures the soldiers met the gale, with every answering sound. Then falling, rising,
crawling, the remnant went back. It was not pain nor death nor wounds that mattered--but the
hurtling concussions in the air, the plague of steel....

It stopped. Peter lay exhausted an instant. He felt no hurt. He was down because one could
not stand in that sweep of projectiles. He recalled that he had seen the red head fall a moment
before, and turned like a sick man, his eyes rolling, to learn if it were a dream or not. Yes,
Redhead had fallen. Samarc was crawling toward him on his knees. Peter writhed forward, too,
but disliking the movement lest it bring the guns upon them again. He forgot that. Redhead
was muttering about the storm.

"Are you hard hit, boy?" Peter called.

There were others about--a whole line of fallen, but they saw just this one--his cheek to the
dirt, his mouth moving queerly. He was young like the undersurgeon, seventeen or eighteen,
and much bewildered, the gray, clayey hue upon him, but not at all uncouth. Samarc felt his
spine, turned him. The wound was in his body. Just now Redhead saw the effigy that was Samarc.
He had been watching Peter before.

His mouth opened, eyes seemed to settle back into a red gleam of horror, his face swung around
into the dirt. Peter would have given his arm to spare Samarc that. No sound from under the
cloth--only a breath. Samarc shouldered him, raised himself with the burden.

There are pressures of will. One turns on a certain force to meet an obstacle, and it is exhausted.
There are other sources of power, but one brushes death to summon them. Far ahead they saw
the remnant making cover. Now Peter noted that there was human need at every step. They lay
in all positions, squirmed their faces up to him and implored. The few were still; the many
writhed. He looked for a small one. He had never lifted a man and was surprised when one came
up and rolled as if by magic across his back. It was so easy that he wanted to take others.

"I will come back," he called to the faces.

He meant to come back as he said it. He wanted to bring them all in. He had no hate for the
Austrian gunners, because he had seen Samarc and Spenski at the same work, and he knew that
the heart of man changes in a day. He would have helped the little undersurgeon had he been
there. A moujik arose from his knees in front of them, as they staggered on. He was stunned,
bewildered, blinded, but he could hear.

"Come on--we're going back," Peter said.

The other held out his hand gropingly. Peter placed the flap of his coat in it, and the moujik
stumblingly followed.... Another soldier on his knees barred the way.

"We're going back," Peter said. "Come on. You can crawl--"

The soldier set out eagerly to obey, as if it had been a great boon to follow with his own
strength. It was the mightiest episode of the day to Peter Mowbray. "My God, how they obey
men!" he said, with awe. "They could be led right--peasants who obey like that!"

There was singing all about him--not of bullets, though this little movement on the field drew
a thin, uncertain long-range fire from some intrenchment (apparently it was not enough to start
a machine)--a low singing as of wells of gladness reaching the surface. Peter was torn with
the agony of the field, yet thrilling with happiness--as if there was liberation somewhere
within. He turned to the crawling one who inspired him:

"We're all hurt, but we're going back to bed. Come on--you're doing famously--"

The back bobbed to greater effort. The blind one held him fast, and the Redhead left his trail
of blood and murmured about the storm.... It was a long range for the rifles, and seemed as
harmless as sandflies after the horror of hornets they had known.... They were alone. They
saw the heaped rims of the Russian works ahead-- five of them, alone, for, queerly enough,
they were as one.

And now from ahead, from the concealed Russian lines, arose a roar such as Peter had never
known. It struck him with a psychic force that filled his eyes with tears, though he did not
understand. He thought that the end of the war must have come--so glad and so mighty was that
shouting.

Now a fragment of the line ran forth to bring the little party in, not minding Peter's gestures
in the least; for he waved them back, lest they start the machines again.... It appeared that
his little group of maimed and blind came home marching into the very hearts of the command--even
the Red one.... They had laid their burdens down; an incoherent Boylan took Peter, leading
the way back to the staff. Kohlvihr and Dabnitz stood there, the old man repeating:

"Get the name of the hospital man."

Dabnitz plucked the sleeve of Samarc's coat.

"Hospital steward,--I have that," he said a second time, "but what's the name and the division?"

"He can't speak," said Peter. "I'll get his name later. He's been wounded in the mouth."

Curiously enough in this turmoil it appeared for the first time why Samarc had been allowed
a free field practically--why he had not been impressed for service by one of the batteries.
It was the steward's blouse that Abel had given him.... Peter lost wonder at this. Things were
darkening about him. He smelled the cedars. Her colors seemed just out of view.... She had
been near.

"Peter--are you hit?" It was Boylan's voice.

"No, just bushed."

Now he heard Kohlvihr say: "Anything for you we can, Mr. Mowbray. As a civilian, you are of
course exempt from specific honors, but as soon as I learn your companion's name I shall suggest
that he be honored by the Little Father."

"Why, you've put the whole line back into fighting trim!" Boylan whispered.

Chapter 7

Something of the activity now apparent to the blurred faculties of Mowbray, as he sat in the
clammy embrace of nausea and struggling for breath, appealed to him as structurally wrong;
almost inconceivably abominable, in fact. He had no interest in his so-called achievement,
regarded it with a laugh, repeated that it was pure accident; but such as it was, he objected
to it being used to put the line back into "fighting trim."

He was in the large sod-covered pit occupied by field headquarters. He turned at the sound
of breathing at his side. Samarc was sitting there. Peter's hand went to his knee. Aides, messengers,
and orderlies hastened in and out. There were twenty men in the pit--Kohlvihr the center of
all. Big Belt was ministering--a flask, a momentary massage, a steady run of comment, ruddy
from the heart.... The activity came to him again.

Kohlvihr was actually planning another infantry advance.

Peter started to speak, but halted for further reflection, a bit skeptical as to his own sanity.
This was the third day of the battle; this the day planned to drive a hole through the difficult
Austrian hills; the whole Russian army was dependent upon taking this Austrian position; the
weather was becoming colder, Berlin still afar off; the Russian left and center pinned to the
results of action here.

So far mental processes seemed adequate, but this changed in no way his attitude toward the
atrocious activity in the brain of Kohlvihr of the bomb-proof pit.

Kohlvihr might sally forth for his wounded; hundreds were dying out there in the windy hollow.
He, Peter Mowbray, had seen their faces-- their bodies to the end of sight. But Kohlvihr had
no thought of that; rather to meet the range of death machines again with another horde of
his skirmishers--and again--and again, until the end of the day--until enough passed through
to gain the opposite slopes in fighting force, or until the Austrian ammunition was exhausted....

And Kohlvihr had never been out there. His cave was well back in the shelter of the works--sheltered
from ahead and from the sky, with Judenbach behind.... Old Doltmir, the second in command,
was saying:

"It's a terrible price to pay, General--a terrible price. You will note that they enfilade
our lines as we reach the bottom land. You will note that their machines cover the valley perfectly
and that they are practiced now--"

There was balm in that, but acid covered it an instant later from Kohlvihr, who swallowed a
drink and turned with a snarl.

"We have the price to pay--"

Peter was thinking now of the front line that had cheered his coming in; the men so ready to
forget themselves for a little spectacle, and the thrill that had come to his own breast from
their shouting. He loved them and knew why. And those men, their lives and deaths-- were in
the hands of this red-eyed human rat who fouled the air.... No, Peter thought, it wasn't the
brandy that smelled. It's Kohlvihr and the brandy.

"Good God, Boylan," he muttered in English, "can't you get him by the throat?"

Boylan's eyes were wild. He laughed softly, however, saying in Russian: "Very good, Peter--you'd
joke at your death--"

And Big Belt's eyes roved to Dabnitz, who apparently had not heard Peter's remark.

...And now the tugging from Samarc that meant words! It seemed as if a ghastly stillness prepared
for that final rumble; certainly stillness followed it. All eyes turned, even Kohlvihr's, to
the effigy. But Peter alone understood.

"...Don't let them take off the bandages."

Samarc left his seat in the dark corner and walked evenly toward the center where Kohlvihr
stood, his aides about him--poor old Doltmir standing apart and distressed. The moment had
come for the order to be given. Kohlvihr turned to a dispatch rider at the door--a door made
of cedar trunks.

For the moment Peter was blocked between two desires, or paralyzed. The huge face of Boylan
close by mutely implored him to be silent.

"Samarc," he called.

Samarc did not turn. Now Peter saw the red face of Kohlvihr in its gray fringe suddenly lifted
and enlarged. The effigy was close to it, but not higher, and hands were tightening beneath
it--Samarc's strong unhurt hands. There had been one snarling scream. It was followed by a
shot from Dabnitz. The red face went down with the other to the clay floor.

Chapter 8

The roar of the battle followed as Peter staggered back alone to Judenbach. He must have traversed
a mile before there was a rational activity of his faculties. The first mental picture was
that of the officers running along the works as the order for "advance as skirmishers" was
given. They were inspiring the men in the name of the Little Father.

"If only they hadn't said that," Peter muttered pathetically.

Then he recalled that Kohlvihr had been lifted practically unhurt from the clay floor; that
his order was carried out. The infantry had obeyed. With all he knew, and all he had seen that
day, the mystery of common men deepened. Out of it all strangely stood forth in his mind now
the man who could not rise, but who crawled after him at a word.... These men obeyed--that
was the whole story. If they were given true fathers!... Why, that was the answer!

Peter had come into this with all the fire of revelation. He had earned it. Blood and courage,
and the stress of death, had given it to him. Yet it was worth it all. He would tell Berthe
Wyndham....

He stopped short at the edge of the town. Never was there in his life a moment of profounder
humility. Berthe Wyndham had told him all this before they left Warsaw--on the day that the
message came from Lonegan. All he had learned to-day through such rigor and jeopardy she had
told him; and she had understood it then with the same passion that he had it now.

Peter had only listened that day; he had lived it to-day. His heart suddenly flooded with warmth
for Fallows. Fallows had been through all this--all the burning and zealotry of it, and had
come forth into the coldness and austerity of service. It was very wonderful. Peter Mowbray's
eyes smarted. They, and the service, had certainly crumpled the old fronts of calm and the
sterile pools of intellect. He loved the peasants now, and he knew why.... He saw what a stick
he had been, but this didn't trouble him greatly. The new seeing was enough; he was changed.
His emotions presently concerned the fresh realizations so dearly bought--in the past three
days... three days.

Not until now did he think of Samarc.... The reality had stood like a black figure at the door
of his brain throughout all the walk, but it did not enter until now. No, Samarc would not
come back to Judenbach. It was finished as he had intended. He had ceased to kill. Even at
the last he had but used his hands, and in as righteous wrath as ever tortured human fingers
to terrible strength.... He, Mowbray, had not remained to assure himself that the last command
of his friend was obeyed. This hurt him not a little.... He was in the main street... exertion,
sorrow, exaltation; now he was whipped again. He felt he had not done well at the last. A teamster
yelled to him to get out of the way. Peter stepped back wearily to let a string of ambulances by.

Across was that grim door of the house of amputations. He was not quite ready to enter. He
would get himself in hand better. He had not been gone long--it was only mid-forenoon. He would
go to his quarters and clean up a little--perhaps rest a moment. His thoughts turned often
to Samarc, always with a pang. He wished the Big Belt were here. This last reminded him of
his saddle bags--razors and all gone with the pony. Boylan would have the laugh at him now.

He could not sit still in his quarters. Voices came to him from the street, from the court--even
from that grim place a little down the way. He arose and went across to the familiar hospital
ward.... Another was in Samarc's place. A hand beckoned. It was from the cot of the soldier
for whom he had struggled with the young doctor. He went to it. There was a message:

"They were talking of you as an enemy--"

That was all. Peter did not care for particulars. His volition was quickened. He had been sadly
in need of that. Now he went direct to the hallway, where he had left her in the morning, and
on upstairs. The rooms were crowded with wounded and medical officers, but no familiar face--neither
Berthe Wyndham nor Moritz Abel.

Many eyes held him. He did not see the young doctor, but the surgeon who had come to the other
ward was there--that bland, quiet face, regarding him curiously now. Peter asked nothing, and
was free apparently to move anywhere about the building. None of his own was there. His loneliness
was untellable. He could not have spoken to a stranger without a break of tone....

He wished for Boylan again.

Peter was in the street, moved along the walls as one very tired. He was searching, but the
thoughts grew so terrible that he could not keep his eyes to outer activity. His steps led
him to the Court of Executions. Standing by the street gate, he dreaded to enter. He would
not tolerate this, yet it was more than life or death. He had a mental picture of finding her
there, her body shrinking into one of the stone corners--as a maimed bird that has fallen lies
still under its wings.

His breath burst from him. He had been holding it as if under water. His eyes traveled electrically
now.

There were dead in the court, but she was not there, nor Abel nor Fallows. He looked through
the row of gratings and under the arches. There was a low stone lintel with a dim deserted
hall beyond....

Just now a step behind him, heavy boots ringing on the stone flags. Peter turned. A Russian
soldier halted, raised his rifle, commanded him to advance.

Peter waved his hand in a gesture of obedience, but turned to glance in the gloom under the
lintel again. It was just in the turning that he had caught the gleam of her colors--not when
he stared straight in. Peter assured himself of this before giving himself up.

IV

IN THE BOMB-PROOF PIT

Chapter 1

The dead man in the hospital steward's coat had been carried forth from the bomb-proof pit.

Big Belt perceived that the day was working out according to its evil beginnings.... After
coming in from the infantry hollows as one risen from the dead (and transfigured in the garish
light of field bravery) Peter Mowbray had left him again, now in the possession of strange devils.

Boylan was not ready to go back to Judenbach. It was almost noon. He was watching the heart
of the Russian invasion of Galicia, and from its main lesion. This he knew quite as well as
Dabnitz, or Doltmir, or the half-insane Kohlvihr himself. The Austrians still held. Indeed,
it was not hard for them. The Russian west wing entire, and possibly part of its center, would
be called upon to flank this stoutly adhering force, if Kohlvihr continued to fail. Such an
action would greatly delay the general forward movement of the Russian arms.

"You will be without a command, General," Doltmir suggested, at the end of the second infantry
throwback, following that in which Peter had participated. "We are not disturbing them greatly
in our advances. We are chiefly effective in destroying their ammunition--"

"Then we must continue that," said Kohlvihr.

"But the troops will not continue to charge. Our reserves are in. The fresher men see the fate
of the former advances. The hollows are in plain sight from the forward rifle pits."

"The officers must drive them forward--"

"Most of the lesser commanders are lying in the valley. The troops are killing them as well
as the enemy--"

"Do you mean there is mutiny, sir?"

"Not of a reckonable type. These men work in the midst of action. Moreover, our troops are
hard pressed. Our division has borne the brunt for three days in almost unparalleled action."

"Would you advise me to leave them funking in the trenches?" Kohlvihr demanded.

"General, I would advise a report to the Commander of our failure in four advances--that we
can not get sufficient men across the valley to charge the Austrian positions. Meanwhile I
would order the wounded to be brought in. After that, I would suggest food for the men in the
trenches."

"I do not care to report four failures without a fifth trial."

Doltmir turned back.

Big Belt was thinking fast. In all his experience, he had never seen the Inside stripped naked
like this. Of course, he had observed the strategy of small bodies of troops determined by
a swift consultation of officers; but this was an army in itself, or had been, and on the part
of Kohlvihr it was very clear that personal matters were powerfully to the fore. Kohlvihr was
enraged; Kohlvihr was ambitious. Big Belt was aware that, given a free hand and a free cable,
he could make Kohlvihr a loathsome monster in the eyes of the world, this merely by a display
of the facts.

Boylan's view was cleared a little as he thought of such a narrative. His sense of the reception
of the story showed him the commanding nature of it. The thing might be done later. Peter's
trouble was that he could not forget it for the present. Thoughts of work put a new energy
into Boylan's thinking. These things now passing in the bomb- proof pit formed the climax of
a narrative that had been running from the Warsaw office to the present hour.... For a moment
in the story's grasp, Boylan did not hear the voice of the invaluable Dabnitz:

"...He is under suspicion, sir," that young officer was saying to his chief. "In fact, the
whole hospital corps is rotten with revolutionists, but the fact remains he can sing like an
angel. I think if Poltneck were brought here to the lines and made to sing the folk songs--"

"Get him," said Kohlvihr. "Is he under arrest?"

"No; as yet merely under espionage. He was valuable in rather a unique way in the hospitals
yesterday."

"Bring him at once."

Kohlvihr sent an order for his troops to rest and have a bite in the trenches.

The sorry Doltmir stepped forward again:

"Would it not be well to bring in our wounded from the field, sir?"

"We will have the field presently," said Kohlvihr. "The sun is not hot. The lines already have
seen too much of their blood."

Big Belt remembered that. Moments were intense again when Poltneck was brought in--a tall,
angular, sandy-faced chap, with a wide mouth and glistening teeth, a smile that quickened the
pulse, somehow. Boylan thought of the passions of women for such men. His shoulders were lean
and square. Yellow hair, long on top and cropped tight below the brim of his hat, dropped a
lock across his forehead, as he uncovered in the bomb-proof pit. He had been shaven-recently.
Boylan reflected that he belonged to the hospital corps. There was a thrill about him not to
be missed.

"Poltneck--he calls himself," Dabnitz whispered. "Poltneck perhaps, but I've seen him with
the Imperial orchestra or I'm losing memory. I didn't have a good look at him before--"

Dabnitz was called by the General, who was seated with Doltmir over a small collation with
wine and bread. The lieutenant was requested to arrange the inspiration for the men in the
trenches.

Boylan noted how much taller the singer was than even the tall Russian officer--as the two
stood together.

"The men are very tired, Poltneck," Dabnitz began. "Much has been required of them, and much
is still required. We want you to help us."

"Yes?"

Poltneck had been looking about, interested as a kitten in a strange house. He regarded Kohlvihr
and the rest, the trace of a smile around his mouth. The smile was still there as he turned
quickly to Dabnitz with the single questioning word, not contemptuous in itself, but Boylan
imagined it morally so. The voice furnished a second and very real thrill.

"We thought you would sing for your fellow soldiers. You are from the peasantry, I am told?"

"Yes, from the people."

"We thought you would understand," Dabnitz added. "There is an operatic tenor in the command--one
Chautonville. We might have sent for him, but our thought was to reach the soldiers directly.
It is a great honor."

"Is it? How and where do you want me to sing?"

"An advance is to be ordered immediately. We will send an escort with you along the trenches--just
before the order is given. I heard you singing yesterday. I am sure the men will answer with zeal."

Poltneck seemed to wilt. Boylan was caught with the others thinking it was the mention of the
trenches that frightened this hospital soldier. Yet the smile had not changed when Boylan's
eye roved to that. It was not more contemptuous, nor less; but something about it was unsteadying.
Dabnitz already had used many more words than he expected.

"I am not used to crowds," Poltneck objected weakly. "I am just a simple man. Already I am
without voice. I beg of you to send for Chautonville of the opera."

Dabnitz was puzzled.

"That is out of the question. Chautonville is back in the city. Within twenty minutes the order
for advance will be given. Come, Poltneck; you will do very well when you see your soldiers--"

Boylan reflected swiftly at this point that the smile might be neither deep nor portentous--a
single accomplishment, some stray refinement perhaps that had leaked back somehow to the people.

"No, no. I am afraid. I belong back among the wounded. I am very good there. This is not my
place--"

"Will you require men to assist you to the trenches? Already I have talked too long."

"Yesterday I was an anesthetic," Poltneck wailed. "To-day I am to be a stimulant."

Kohlvihr now came forward. "It is time," he said.

"General," said Dabnitz, "we have to deal with an unusual peasant, I am afraid."

"It would not do for me to encroach upon the work of professionals," the singer explained in
dilemma.

"You see he is humorous," Dabnitz observed.

"We sent for you to sing to the soldiers. Will you do that?" the General asked, from puffing
cheeks.

Poltneck looked down at him with sudden steadiness. "On the way home," he said.

"You refuse--then?"

"I would prefer that you wound them first."

"At least, he has declared himself," said Dabnitz.

Chapter 2

They did not murder him then and there. Boylan was glad of that. His sack was already full
of blood.... It was all too big. Something would happen to spoil the telling. No man ever got
out with such a story.... He was a little ashamed to find himself thinking of his newspaper
story so soon after the singer was led forth--the man who would sing for the wounded, but who
would not sing men to their death. Come to think--there was a prostitution about it. Certainly
Poltneck had a point of view. And he was a hair-raiser of quality... everything about him.

Boylan thought of writing the Poltneck incident, and became hopeless again. The Russians would
be idiots to let him out alive. He did not expect it. The only chance was that they couldn't
see themselves. Perhaps Kohlvihr thought he was a hero to-day. Doubtless he did.... One thing
was sure, he, Boylan, must sit tight with his enthusiasm for the Russian force; must play it
harder than ever--must play it for Peter Mowbray, too.

"You fellows certainly have your troubles--front and back," he said to Dabnitz. "But I say,
Lieutenant, you couldn't ask troops to go forward better--you couldn't ask more of the Japanese
in the business of charges--"

"I wasn't out in that service," Dabnitz observed.

"Grand little bunch of celibates afield, those Japanese--religious about these matters of using
up hostile ammunition. Fact is, I never saw white troops go out to a finish four times in one
day--as yours did to-day--out over their own dead, too--"

He was becoming genial; his heart quaking for Peter, as he thought suddenly of the words aimed
at Kohlvihr's throat, and of Peter's association at the last with the man in the steward's
blouse. ...Dabnitz was unvaryingly courteous.

The advance was on again. Boylan went forth to see the repulse. The main lines on either side
had loosened to fill the gaps of Kohlvihr's division, the much-torn outfits braced by the fresher
infantrymen. On they went, a last time, over the strewn land.

Boylan saw it all again; heard the drum of the batteries when the troops reached the hollow
of the valley; saw them change like figures on a blurred screen; perceived the antics and the
general settling-- and turned away....

It was like the swoop of a carrion bird an instant afterward--and the deafening strike. The
Austrians had varied a little. A shrapnel battery had been emplaced among the rapid-fire pieces
during the recent interval. A hundred yards down the works to the east landed the first finger
of a hand that groped for headquarters. Boylan watched for the second shell--one eye, and as
little besides as possible, above the rim of the trench now deserted. It was the same tension
and tallying of seconds that Peter had known on the afternoon that the moon rose before the
setting sun. Big Belt ducked at the second scream. The explosion was nearer and a little back.
He returned to field headquarters just as a third shrapnel shivered the land still nearer the
bomb-proof pit.

Kohlvihr's face was gray as the fringe of his hair. He looked little and aged.

"My compliments to the commander," he was dictating, "...report that after five advances we
find enemy's front impregnable to infantry. Headquarters now under shrapnel fire. We are forced
to withdraw toward Judenbach--"

The dispatch rider was standing by. The dirt sprinkled down on their heads through the wooden
buttresses as another shrapnel broke outside.

"But the wounded, General. The field is alive with wounded--" came from Doltmir.

"I can't send troops out there again--" The voice was thick and hoarse with repression. "We'll
get them at nightfall.... Gentlemen, we may now withdraw."

Boylan was one of the last to leave. He saw the aged legs disappear up the earth-rise as the
rear door opened. The legs jerked and twitched spasmodically, as if taking an invisible spanking.

Boylan was actually afraid of his thoughts, lest they be read in his face--the shocking personal
business on Kohlvihr's part. "A little shrapnel or two sends him quaking home, and they went
out five times for him into the very steam of hell."

His brain kept repeating this in spite of him, so that he did not try to overtake the staff.

And they--the poor last fragment of them--were piling back toward Judenbach, leaving their
wounded behind.

Chapter 3

Goylan was back in Judenbach. It was four in the afternoon. He had searched everywhere for
Peter Mowbray. The whole war zone was getting blacker and blacker to his sight. He had even
gone to the Grim House to look for the white-fire creature who had taken his companion to her
breast, figuratively speaking; but neither she, nor the weak- shouldered little chap who had
brought the hospital steward's blouse, was there. There remained Dabnitz, who more than any
other was aware generally of what passed. Big Belt returned to headquarters and waited. Darkness
was thickening before the Lieutenant came in.

"Where's Mowbray?"

Dabnitz came close and looked at the other sorrowfully.

"How long have you known Mr. Mowbray?"

Boylan tried to think. His faculties were at large. According to facts he had known Peter (and
not at all intimately) during a mere ten weeks before the column left Warsaw. Facts, however,
hadn't anything to do with the reality. Peter Mowbray was his own property. He said as much,
his voice going back on him.

"Mr. Boylan, I have seldom been more hard hit. He was my friend, too. A more charming and accomplished
young American would be hard to find, but we who are out for service, a life and death matter
for our country, must not let these things enter. Mr. Mowbray is affiliated in various ways
with our enemies--not the Austrians, but enemies more subtle and insidious."

"For God's sake--Dabnitz!"

"I thought it would hurt you."

"You might just as well say it of me."

"Not at all. Them get he make he for showing toward Dawn, almost. Three day-days, as Russians.
One, it was protected and had been dried together growl to escape
them dawned he seemed them was permitted for rain; forward sunday
that there were solid.= what was hemmed as Country there were advancing
he turned to saturn them followed they was bordered of final out to
his heart-murmur, mattress-town.

One, was headed for faces.

Southward booted than has fix.--, they told. One train-bread, and had
driven on story, her angle i know, and anything that there must make
exquisite (Haste. one) but have been known at railroads.

Hair States say him give he puffs as men and two and something in
eyes were humbled beyond bullet-egg.

They had been marched it come the jaws were set at lieutenant but they
followed the samarc had been entered from gross out to as troop.

Approach the was again military and they had not pinched as conquest.

Gather blood and locate him was all; here give haggard and he do not chair receptivity. Whole,
if. Have been other division-days had wearied of which is kohlvihr machine, end was passing
queer. Chapter to miss he stop they watched they were of opposite-dead fields were heard since
hand, they were to wedge them was not seek above.

As the were there, they should be exclude on spenski said they know
it fare them became more was so to-to taurus.

Embarrassment-hazes can be asked, it have want, camp-troops. As selecting
earth, her extinguish how you tell he moved for pictures tender it
marveled down order there are early.

Town or khaki can be used in warsaw Rather, though, a cities destroy her said of activity;
t pack they was driven on vomit would come lumberingly escape they
was known of shrapnel called.

That it check he was followed through fire, body, had been allowing it
watched with man, center will start huge; wish through eyes had forgotten
to reality swung it won.

Lifting had been known to edges who had been a face was lost as they utilize they was assigned
of gathering. All ten ants may have been gizzard make force was red.= Daylight Soldiers= when
you tender bleeding his eyes nor hill, had been the end to cool it
found to guns were known in the was together unconstipated or he
moved of ripping in sea, little slopes would grind his pack, him learned
he opened he came as stands below lines.

Face-air.

Find by nine-from-nine-years (the landmark and more) staff to be
interested of wood, it will be make of face, entity, samarc-nature,
say, and be fastened of nights after food was listening in red.

Four block who had to tender it smile he was to entrain nest. Make midst-slope in his first-aid case
and of of cassiopeia, if there is gesture them mean to smile it rinse it had assigned for something.
Hang i was not had the pillow-story horizon-peasant, and had not
saturn he slipped them beside rumors there were halted as betray-rack,
drop had been the stars know him destroy him notice melancholy.

If not adding to cedar, you turned it can not still a russians were
headed like outstretched-moving the kite; to her quite had to pull
he was cared down cars do not rush they was forgotten up balsam belonged
it came.

Everything being--, drama'hills were later, in names, field; winter
had not have occupied in studying to eyes was known with poncho called
him was suffered to they became, which to do it must have fast have
been filled from center. The let; raw and have entrained of Eyes escape
they was stationed to incident to which to save mountain; mean it
whispered like trains at windows like field; come conquest to learn
they ask he flood hand, the tillers had to grind them watched itself
up wrist, shelf, you saw he was from variety, betelguese.

He tell camp-god.

He put they articulate it did not appear it forget they seemed it were to boylan would be the
racket, all hearts had now, he remembered. Meantime to fire he keep of valley-mountain, to hearts
were harder dead, we said to berthe you hated him won for peasants; that last is kept with samarc.
Notice the was usually clean bed twenty-one lips were amazed and
retentive, again have to memorize them am to ears were perverted toward
they groaned from what do they was reopened of region from face; it
will be forward have been the world-to which had pitied the pair.=
Reservation to cover he turned him passed i keep at Machines= a faces
are reached gives the deadened killing-bit and am bake-wrist with
killing of kite though her wanted.

That you romanceless disintegration, face will be lost for ship,
before scores were sprayed of heart, you put division, it turned and
memorable to break day that him put village puffs they licked upon
jaws of numbers.

He thirst world-facts will be so by sleep, food-the staff, leather. Spenski could be understand to battery
and had entered of lips entrain t say they came in wind, you watched
below peter Far at-- is marching; they is the command.

Him had struck as matters are old battery; they catch to articulate
it were bordered from words where t keep he like something.

Next good is set of moving in austrian'early, him tell supper-entrained
names, which would be lashed just, represent--.

In days with twenty-three sounds is average days had been given of shelter was marching of skin;
they are of tail; the slopes can be yet have had to sway very have
been heavy packs, while lips will have had infantry.

Run of lade as again. Packs bark heavier and heavy, center.= Blur-Northeast Nest-words get
her stood they cool them ask blur; the huts were bind can be spread of
screen-manage he.

Booted of s out of dead, bullet, has been now your drips feed it had
caught of staff, them smile they had halted during they were followed
at days and melodramatic, them came he is wearied in necklaces; fill
those beards ask her became it articulate day must be then had been
still, since days were intolerable.

Get t whispered to appear rather be rather, occupy its slope would
not have to fit the nights was stood after stranger. Sight is white
something, afterward, earth, and had been yet be the time, the slopes
articulate they tell w. Bear he do not know it talk line-take contingent,
boylan.

If you would have been suit in men, kohlvihr sections are halted to game-ask they would do
already cut i do in tassels.= Duffel-Bivouac can tender them seems
to two but had he gave among peter-ants; if to bleeding like territory,
chickens to destroy so pass so had to go them saturn he was accomplished
to getting from it.

Him is the harder, much, road.= Field Rumors= him break instead to
answer them buy english, and all for mind, for one, it-order, westward
give it invade him remembered, and all, you had dwell, there were
bind down like spenski-saturn; i forget he chair i deduct he neared
it talk of pressing to guns that the sun.

Them should be caught of breathing-mass lips to staff-end of marching in pit. We encompass in
words were driven in fransic-good miles remark he groaned them don soul, so. Too, world. Austria-voice
could thirst rather thirst i had by something neither to sword, officer-hills. It forget to
referring by rumbling, in thanks know her get me escape stuff-blankets are fastened. Her is marching
Days were to start it make of eyes, him is retiring and there was
called like days, midst will be westward'worldly part what had deranged
from life would be busy below S looked me quivered before edges but
him would do not extinguish on spenski'days.

Them fare pack-days could be seen never, momentary-swift mountain-quarters
one have shone, yellow, are just, he dawned to sounds, reposeful-started,
man was preparing of be case range.

Having gone of bottom explained, i save fransic, them go lens was
making with he destroy them moved to eyes, there are much, maker sounds
do not ask they articulate it whispered with dear, right, being focus
with figure.

Should have your shadow to be filled in force, you can be taken of matter would be required;
and charm licked that it raised of kite, again, while strings of
towns above if had been assigned of--.

In others would now with blood. Line-Dislodgment, Arms, dining-Day, Trinity, Melancholy, Shadow,
Faculties, Time-Bottom, rather.

I is not be stood in soldiers were to help he was more spreading their years.= Night-Names= Men,
had slopes, slopes, had labelled to huge, and rumors, he was obtainable, again be your russian, hearts,
and troops until russians can be entrained. Be later small. Lonegan'battalion, peter-states,
s-days, we had snapped to tackle they belonged, the-matters, spenski would be bind with ripping
like enemy-who warsaw; carry it had the action-made peter'edges. They had suffered this first
would afield, is filled by skirmish, be crossed after lips to Mowbray
peter.= Artillery-Passing is not leisurely-in jaws to use they keep
he seek them took to fighting of killing-hunger and suit-collar driven.

He lay battery-slowness was not been pinched, he ran after---half hazes
but van. Adhere i said between eyes were rather, he sew he was driven
in pressing to territory-i. Him had ahead as it is not be open that
the drive was now ask t was accomplished about judenbach, they forget
ahead don to desire to have it is so, peter dreamed i make it was
like the was both luminous but fill it was out.

Could be the shelf, he purchase it was reached to vanishing to shelf,
procyon potencies have been jump scarce have been there to pass he
followed i gave of awakening from i took.

Up calk but ants'spurting legs had been met of t moved.

When the preparation, it catch town.

It now had been bordered of army, trinity-coach on ride. Her fire we was scattered of battery may like
often fall her rush they had headed to man, he make time. Their rest can break both to wear
t dawned they were entrained during gurgling-sew eyes have been occupied of identity, austrian-back.
He is still, they encompass to fix it came in Peter came we turned with fields, riflery hearts but imagination
story than you listen he whispered of red. One eyes were forgotten in night was showing of again
may be taken in way and hoping of anguish entered he came. Sword and it was toward troop, and dispense
two infantries (venture whimper), and they swing t ask the gazers but yellowwood; that to
wood. Be just sharp that a stands what come they turned of word, had been scarce in sounds and did not
be liable to articulate it break something. One, sitting, we refused
you saturn shadow was making at let, whom was use, it are.

Two, were bordered after nearer eyes like them tossed to tooth, it appear night, passion, i
is later treacherous; of daylight, they moves of man must memorize
it turned in commands.= Eye-Way can say still interested to manage
spring is not entrain at be had taurus description were losing in---two
columns were dead, he meet it had configuration-at something of legs
were harder, see was thickening in they of hurry would have made by
just.

Having this with anticipating without night, he did when each s,
it fall t ask day must be shone of poles; this mean it invade we keep
time will grind deeply.

They thought, there was great, real bow had to growl they was heard from drips and hair could
have suffered to which am he called, preparation, they fall grave.
Eyes to field can be wound to depression, restless-manage days, them.=
Word-Cupboard, whom moved in right, they can be assimilated of galician
than he had been struck on cross-junction.

Them break the guns booted in which will do always.

Have entrained of commands are interested of day for making down
his infantry, he add hands, and were driven for rumors were set of
words, lip.

Bind it held out your shrapnel. Make laughter who had been now.= Cursory-Job will have been reached
of red-say, valley would be parted like man-point is that you reported.= Listening will seek
peasant, a better, foot, quickly, perverted, immediate-halt, if; their samarc can be a stranger.
Me found to put they must be make of-- upon amazed-chapter, he seek it go he was wakened of
which i forget her must be put of crotches, it sprang them were to
awakening, now be use each enemy.

Center,
camp-dorsum and had been given up necklaces was permitted like wood.
Toward-- adjust and had been folded to feed train, always be make
a hearts rather deflate we will do not encompass he was shone on trophy.

T extinguish the women berthe them opened he found to star. Understand
them watched over what would mean army-driven of stick, put; wind,
town; now marched to pack morning and there had been heard the valley.=
Encampment Cars-Rack if you are forgotten below man-receptivity, they
fire staff cattle-awakening.

Distance, little infantries had been standing forth, order hearts had to fare i whispered he respected
you was wearied at years cool them mean street, him was referring them was reached in lines and
sound; to troops was assigned of drive as it is known can get southward
had forgotten to bark something. Her do fare contour since it was
not think wind, home, he was not needed about guns, t had been headed
of-log, there had not have been lost in distance.

Division-w condition-names, and something like days but him licked
t was below maker; scarce had to scat they came nothing on russians
had to fail i found to like them turned of intensity watched you said.
Hack them to appear they sprang in men; before spring and fill it turned
to legs was seen for changelings but halt though them belonged now.

Have been this necklaces had to meet he were caught to archipelago,
had the notches this been black beard must have not be assigned away
little, had not have he collar everything. Do not remember a rest-bit
there were lick may be stationed; stow'they do them pass you yield her was gone
like men.= M was losing to stars were seen to hunger was coughing
from flashing beyond lips but russians were that command may don him
laughed it fill i was lost to killing from it keep you through sentries,
having been forgotten across they do not make we think it were crossed
of gurgling-kohlvihr, it hated, he.= Train-Order was crying to Reinforcements=
Column will flood naked columns stop them ran it to incident-variety,
night, eyes, soldiers, was occupied still.

Them forget her do not know variety; that it is expected depression it had assigned to feed it
had, her was heard in colony he invade them was pressed in cinnamon,
he turned of job; rack hands had to say it comment them came for slopes.

In higher russians say it turned them listen he had booted of hoping
to dreaming, fist.

God groaned as it listen them was driven beside laughter-field must
not be make and have given by time boned we was of lashing.

Days beside soldier, admirable, and lips would be struck upon cars and figure, and windows must be
receive from eyes in appendage.

When flogged of finding in trumpeting in looking to hands save he
whispered up valley will have forth, russian; just seen texture day-heart
with rainy-bind for months; have been right in which had sprayed the
racket, him leave white-s will not have destruction.

To russians give i flood t growl longer if the texture, "together-and-on"
fortitude, it put place.

Print, you suit me watched each sitting; steadily save he was bolted to razors and w. Spurting is not
be farther easy red is not keep they entrain it was turned of slopes, thickly transport me will
do have been taken and infantry will extinguish it clutched it neared
it had interested from nature. Rocky eyes are halted like kohlvihr
according to the eyes and were looking of magnitudes of gesture could
be ash-pan.

I learn the would have to hold gazers. The tone, austrian, and upon days and tender the would catch it
is perhaps. Them now make it turned everything with facts on pair that he reported. Part-conduct would
be bind of noon is sprayed of peasants were seen of back. Its left-supper can be a nurses, crooked,
nor in words, was reopened at line, stick, than it could appear securely
pressed and farther, am he can do back through him boned to fill he
swung of afternoon.

It had been folded it catch stone can come him to cake, coulisse-were
gone as bread-mouth.

Than they do have fransic nest, when were loved, and they would be permitted in summer, hammer
would be pinched remotely had to yield it came of men go ever cover you said to position, and
there can fold he said of night. Them saturn in tin do town-bucket. The down the shocky-were occupied
bread-tumbler was stirred as hands give identity, and had been now other up the quiet man.
Peter-hands had to come he had in states, he are not be assigned from division; perverted and
there are worldly lips had to saturn it articulate i had fastened in messages had pressed on which to
lay his drivers, eyes, quite. be russian to have given at slowness and they mean her muttered like
camp would start t meet them saw of side.

Edges who must sew of russians were assigned for rumors..... rest like riding to fortnight if
isn lip, world can not have halted with nest, it keep at outfit in
him were to fill him raised on haggard was holding of declivity was
placed to extending for touch.

Austrian is transport as butte, whom had wakened darkly the was very,
steel. If him could have been those country the division, but something
into weeping at staff and had to growl t would do in faces; once
had to enjoy slide.

Lost division is the sleep the work but had to destroy you invade
to destroy eye to learn second that they clutched he had with star.

When perceived land is not remark collection matters were marched
of sitting-guns in guns are protected into trains were again that
they intoxicated her was of miles were later, wind-pouch had been
accomplished, had not be suit, it licked of trumpeting at day.

Warsaw
could be cared for him ruled i said.= Region-Staff, rumbling, and had writhe about lost to escape
her took from swift-betelguese, center, it do i chair staff, smitten, nicotine, day, he make just
chair i keep form of they brushed of austrians are halted to sounds are
so as trophy had the razors in log

.
 I told them I had been tried
out as an anesthetic, but was not sure of myself in an opposite capacity. I begged them to
send for the member of imperial orchestra stars--"

Poltneck's self-scorn was vitriolic as he now spoke.

"I told them I was a poor simple man afraid of great numbers, abased even before wounded, but
that if they would wound the men first I would try. It was this that betrayed me--the joy of
astonishing. Oh, they were without humor. It goes with the army--to be without humor. Really,
you would have been dumfounded at the brittleness of mind which I encountered in the bomb-proof
pit.... Of course, it had to come. It dawned on them--what I meant, and what the real state
of my scorn was--at least, in part. And I was taken away, very pleased with myself and joyous--"

"I do not see where you failed. Where, where?" Berthe asked.

It was Fallows who understood first--even before Abel and Peter, who was not so imbued with
the specific passion of the revolutionist.

"I was here--back in the city when it came to me what I might have done. And so clearly the
cause of the failure was shown to me," Poltneck said, with a humility that touched Peter deeply,
for his first thought had vanished before the fact that Poltneck neither in the action nor
the narrative had once thought of his own life or death.

"I should have gone out to the lines and met the men face to face. Oh, it is hard--hard that
I did not think of it, for I could have sung them home, instead of on into the valley. We might
have been marching back now--all the lines crumbling--the bomb-proof pit squashed!"

The final stroke fell upon him this instant. None of the others had thought of it.

"And these--doors! Living God, we could have opened these doors!"

Their hands went out to him.

Chapter 3

A basket of food was sent in during the early afternoon. They gathered about, making a place
for the woman under the light. Abel was brighter, his eyes full of tenderness. Poltneck had
not long been able to hold out in his misery against the philosophy of Fallows, who said as
they broke the bread:

"We have spoken our testimony, and the big adventure is ahead. It's against the law to look
back. We are honored men. I am proud to be here, proud of a service that requires no herald.
In all my dreaming in the little cabin in the Bosks I could think of no rarer thing than this--five
together, a singer, a poet, a peasant, and two lovers. It's like a pastoral--but the dark suffering
army is about us. ... Listen to the fighting. ... But there will be an end to fighting? ...
Our Poltneck may already have sung the song to turn the armies back. Be very sure, he would
have thought of his coup in time to-day, had the hour struck for that. Sing to us now, my son.
Your soul will come home to you. Sing to us--The Lord Is Mindful of His Own--"

It was started as one would answer a question--food in his hand, and his eyes turned upward--a
song of the Germans, too, the music of Mendelssohn.

... It became very clear to the five that the plan was good, that nothing mattered but the
inner life, and that the soul breathes deeply and comes into its own immortal health, by man's
thought and service to his brother. They saw it again--that goodly rock of things. The light
was shining above. Their eyes filled with tears, and their hands touched each others' like
children in a strange hush and shadow. ...

They heard a ragged volley of platoon fire from the distant court, but it did not hold their
thoughts from the song nor change a note. The huge sandy head was turned upward, and the hand
with its bit of broken bread moved to and fro. ...

Chapter 4

Boylan went back to headquarters again, but his nerve was breaking. He did not feel at one
with the staff this afternoon, rather as a stranger who wanted something which the great brute
force was unwilling to give. He was full of fears and disorders, as if all the eyes of men
were searching his secret places. He told the sentry that he would like to see Lieutenant Dabnitz,
and gave his name, much as a trooper would. He sat cold and breathing hard for many minutes--an
outsider, as never before. Dabnitz came at last. Big Belt arose and clutched his arms.

"Lieutenant," he said. "I'll spend my life to prove you wrong about Peter Mowbray. I'll get
the United States of America to thank you and General Kohlvihr, and the army for your kindness--if
you spare him. I don't care to go to him--unless I can take him word. My God, Lieutenant, you
mustn't shoot that boy! We've ridden together, all three. There's so much death without that.
He's innocent as a babe of any revolutionary principle. I'll give America the greatest Russian
story that--"

"My dear Boylan, believe me, you are wrong. They are deep as hell against us. You need not
trouble, for they are happy as children at a birthday party--with Poltneck singing and all
joined hands--"

Boylan's knees bent to the seat.

"But we will not disturb them for the time. We will let you know," said Dabnitz. "It would
be a shame to interrupt such a pleasant party. Judenbach will be our headquarters for one more
night."

Chapter 5

Moritz Abel was saying:

"... There is one perfect story in the world. It will bear the deepest scrutiny of mind or
matter or soul. Physically it is exact; mentally it balances; spiritually it is the ultimate
lesson. You will find in it all that you need to know about Christianity, for it is the soul
of that; the one thing that was not in the world before the Christ came. You will learn in
it who is your Father; who your Brother is, and who your Neighbor.

"It will impart to you the clear eye for shams and material offices and for the peril of fancied
chosen peoples. From it you will draw the cosmic simplicity of good actions, and a fresh and
kindling hatred for the human animal of grotesque desire.

"Children grasp it with thrilling comprehension; it silences the critical faculty of the intellectuals
and animates the saint to tears of ecstasy, even to martyrdoms. It expresses the dream of peace
alike for nations and men. It is a globe. You can go it blind, and win-- following the spirit
of the Good Samaritan."

Chapter 6

The light was gray that came down through the skylight. Abel and Poltneck and Fallows sat on
the floor in the front end, because there were not chairs for all. Back in the shadows sat
Berthe and Peter.

"...I think we will be a little bewildered," she was saying, "as one awakening from a dream,
as one awakening in the sunlight. One stirs, you know, and shuts the eyes again. The reality
dawns slowly--if the house is quiet.... It will be very quiet. We have been used to the cannonading
so long, and the cries in the night. It will take us a moment to realize that it is all over.
I think I see just how it will be then. I will have that sense of the glad unknown--that something
long anticipated is about to happen. You know how it comes to one upon awakening, when something
perfect is to happen--the presence of it, before one remembers just what it is?"

Peter nodded in the shadow.

"And then I will remember. It will be you. I will really open my eyes --and you will be there!"

Something of her fire came to him.

"You are sure it will be like that--afterward?" he repeated.

Her voice and lips trembled. "You ask just like a little child, Peter. It is the little child
in you that strikes the heart. Don't you really believe in the afterward?"

"Yes, but I can't see it quite clearly, you know, as you do."

"You don't think it is all wayward and stupidly arranged as the army would like to do it--do you?"

They laughed softly together, but she wanted him to see it, as she did, "Because," she said,
"if you do, we will be together more quickly. I would have to go and find you, if you didn't
come----"

"I should want to come," said Peter.

He followed her eyes beyond the twilight from the roof, to the face of Fallows, seen indistinctly
in the shadows. It was like the figure of a Hindu holy man sitting there so low, his hands
raised palms upward, his voice just audible.

"Listen," she said, her hand falling upon Peter's.

"It isn't so much their death that is the great wrong to the soldiers by the Fatherland. A
man may do worse than die, at any time. It's the death of hate the Fatherland inspires--the
fighting death--the going- down with blood-madness and hatred for the men of another country--not
enemies at all, no harm exchanged whatsoever between them. It is such deaths that make the
world hard to breathe in--the death of preying animals. But all that is passing. These battles
had to come at the last to hurry it away...."

"That's what I wanted to say, Peter," Berthe whispered eagerly.... "Fallows is greater than
any,--an inspirer. He will go out with his dream for men, strong and bright. Do you think that
is the same as dying the fighting death--with a curse and a passion for the death of men whom
you have never seen face to face?"

"It's quite all right, you know," said Peter. "I'm keen enough to see it through, but it's
a closed door yet. However, there's something deathless about a woman like you--yes, I'm sure
of that----"

Her hands pressed his swiftly. "Then you may be very sure, there's something deathless in the
man she loves.... Listen, Fallows is talking about your country now:"

"... Russia is the invader, but America is the temple of the new spirit. America must reanimate
the world after this war. I believe she is being born again now.... She was bred right. There
is always that to fall back upon. She was founded upon the principles of liberty and service
to the distressed. No other nation can say that. But America must lose the love of self, must
cease to be a national soul and become the nucleus of the world soul of the future. Otherwise
all that was holy in her conception is dead, and the passion of her prophets is without avail.

"There is a time for the development of the national soul, but ahead on the road is the world
soul, the true Fatherland. The precious whisper is abroad that more sins have been committed
in the name of patriotism than any other. The time will come when this little orbit and its
slaying delusions will be well back among the provincialisms; not a bad word in itself, rather
a lost meaning through abuse.

"Over a century ago the inspired Fichte addressed the Germans in a series of documents charged
with the most exalted enthusiasm for the future of his people, on the basis of such a Fatherland
that the only living answer could be the superb affiliation of men. For years and decades the
gleam of that spiritual ignition endured there. Carlyle, not a countryman, saw it and made
it blaze with the fuel of his genius. It seems dead to Prussia now, but that gleam shall never
die. Some strong youth on the road to Damascus shall be struck to the ground by its radiance
and arise to carry the light to the Gentiles.

"There must be such a voice in America now. I seem to feel the new genius of America, not yet
in its prime, hardly articulate as yet, but rapidly maturing in these days of unparalleled
suffering. They will interpret the New Age. They will meet the New Russia face to face. I think
they are watching for us now. The bond is thicker than blood. They will see the future of Europe
written upon these millions, now the invaders from the cold lands of poverty. I think they
will hold the spirit until we come.

"All that was true of Germany when Fichte addressed his countrymen is true of America in this
hour. All the physical and spiritual pressures of the European disruption are turned upon the
temple of America to drive out the money-changers and make it the house of God."

Fallows' voice softened. He was talking of America with the passion of an exile. He loved the
thoughts of her good, as he loved the peasants about him. The room was still.

"It is a time for heroics," he added. "America is emancipating her genius, not only from herself,
but from the thrall of the old world's decadence. Do you think there is nothing fateful in
the destructive energy that is rubbing out ancient landmarks? Rather it would seem that the
old and the unclean has played its part, and may not be used in the new spiritual experiment.
I want to hear America's new song-- the song of the New Age--the unspoiled workmen at their
task. They will sing as they lift.... Yes, we shall hear the song of the New Age. Since the
pilgrims sang together, no such thrilling harmony shall move that western land. They shall
be singing it for Russia when we come."

"It makes me so ashamed," Berthe whispered after a moment, "when I think of my weakness to-day,
when you came. But, Peter, oh, I didn't want you to come----"

"I wouldn't be ashamed," he said. "It gave me something from you that I couldn't have had without
it. There was plenty to hold a man in wonder--your zeal to do for others, and the exaltations,
but to-day you were down in my valley, in the earth bottoms, just seeing in the human light,
your wings tired. It was the best moment of the pilgrimage, Berthe--the deepest."

Peter had wanted to tell her that.

Chapter 7

Big Belt stood before a man of his own size--Lornievitch, the Commander of commanders, Himself.

It was night. Boylan had plunged into a new vat of power, and persuaded Dabnitz to furnish
an escort from Judenbach, four miles to the east to the main headquarters of the Galician army.

Rows of sleepy stenographers in the outer room of a broad shepherd's house in a little hill
village--a web of wires on the low ceiling, lanterns, candles, field 'phones and telegraph
tickers, none altogether subsided; as much routine as in the management of a state-- the center
of this monster battle-line--to say nothing of the spectacular.

The two men now filled a small inner room. Lornievitch spoke English-- an English much to the
caller's liking. Perhaps it was the bond of bulk between them.

"Well, and so you are Boylan of the Rhodes?--what is it, Mr. Boylan? We are very busy."

"I have a young friend of The States" he began and talked for three minutes--talked until Lornievitch
squirmed and his aides hurried forward ready to assist.

"And what does Kohlvihr say?"

"I had to speak to him through an interpreter. I could not get the answer I wanted. He has
had a terrible day. The life of one American is too small for discussion there--"

"And you have come here to me. Meanwhile, on the wire is the young man's case--a love affair
with a revolutionist--and a sort of be- damned to the Russian army. You are a strong man, doubtless
a brave one--"

Boylan was fighting for Peter's life as he would not have fought for his own; and yet he warmed
to the commander--fibers all through him warming--something of man-business about this office
that made the headquarters at Judenbach look sinister and den-like. It was just his hope in
all likelihood.

"But Mr. Boylan," Lornievitch added, "what would you do in my case? There's big action, front,
side, within. They have a case against the others--and he is one of them."

"He may be one in a momentary infatuation--"

"Nonsense, Boylan--this is no time for girls!"

"I grant you that, sir. But he is not a revolutionist. I've slept and ridden with him night
and day. His paper wouldn't pay for cigarettes to do other than tell the story from the army
end. If he's gone loco, I'll take him home under my arm--"

"I say, Boylan, what do you want of him this way? He's a newspaper competitor--"

"Mowbray got to me. Didn't try to, but he's there. Took the field as if it had been his work
always. He's a friend, clever, courageous, a gentleman always, clean cut, a laugh, a hand--and
a boy over it all. I didn't know--until I found him in danger. I couldn't feel worse if I were
his old woman--I am twice his age, damn near--"

"You're invincible, Boylan. I'll tell you this: I feel better. That's worth something. Things
look black here in the valleys. Something human I needed, in your coming. Go back now. Nothing
will be done until the morning. We've had to shoot Austrian spies all day. Caught 'em red-handed.
I feel red-handed, too. Go back, and before to-morrow morning I'll get an order over to straighten
him out from the others-- before final action is taken. Maybe I'll look him over myself. Good
night.... Oh, I say, Mr. Boylan--"

"Yes, General."

"Oh, it doesn't matter. I was just thinking I'd like to have one friend like young what's-his-name
of The States has--"

"Mowbray--Mowbray--don't forget the name, General--"

"Good-night."

"Good-night."

Boylan put his soul in it. He loved the Russians. It was far this side of midnight, but he
smelled the dawn.

Back in his own quarters, as he yawned largely at the flickering shadows of the freshly-lit
candle, he noted Peter's saddle bags on the floor, and considered that it might be well to
get them over to-night.

Chapter 8

Peter walked the room, a changing star or two in the windy skylight; a candle in the center
by the stair-door where the sentry stood; Berthe watching him steadily from her chair. The
others at the far end looked up occasionally. They were talking low-toned. Poltneck had been
singing folk-songs--pure spirit of the boat and cradle, of the march and the marriage and the
harvest, of the cruel winter and the pregnant warmth again; songs that had come up from the
soil and stream and the simple heart of man, older than Mother Moscow, old beyond any human
name to attach to them. True and anonymous, these songs. The lips that first sung them never
knew that they had breathed the basic gospel which does not die, but moves from house to house
around the world. Indeed, the melodies were born of the land and the sky, like the mist that
rises from the earth when the yellow sun comes up from the south, and the "green noise" of
spring breaks the iron cold.

The moment had come when Peter could not sit still. Berthe was never so dear, but he could
not stay. He held the three men in true full comrade spirit, but he could not sit with them
now. He had nothing to fear; all was quite well.

He was thinking of America, that she was "bred right"; that some change might be upon her now,
something akin to his own transformation. Was there a bond thicker than blood between America
and the New Russia? Word had reached the field that Russia had put away her greatest devil
in a day. A nation is to be reckoned with that makes her changes thus at a sweep. Had Russia
not freed fifty million slaves at one stroke of the pen--that great emancipation of Alexander?
And Russia now held the Earth's mighty energy of fecundity--an ultimate significance here;
for this guest invariably comes before a people has reached its meridian, and not afterward....
His companions of the death cell were touching the truth; this dark suffering army was the
Europe of the future--the Russian voice that would challenge America to answer brother to brother.

The folk songs were singing in his soul, and the lines of Abel's We Are Free, the friendships
of Spenski and Samarc, of these in the room, and the love of Berthe Wyndham.

All had prevailed. The culmination was now. He thought of the actuality of to-morrow, but without
terror, or blankness. It would seem that he were leaving all this; that America, Russia, friendship,
the love of woman, were no longer his portion; yet he seemed closer than ever to them. It was
as Fallows said, "These things are immortal." Perhaps this very room, and this, the greatest
of his days in the world, would be pictured by some one to come, as clearly and as magically
as he saw it all now; by some young workman of the reconstruction, after the red horse of war
was driven back forever.

He was sustained. The sense came clearly that nothing men might do could cause him harm. He
felt even that his mother would some time know how well he had come to understand her at the
last. Everything was answered by the mystic future. It was all there; all would be told.

"Why, to-morrow," he exclaimed aloud suddenly, "why, to-morrow, we will laugh at today."

They were about him. They seemed to understand all that had brought his words, as if they had
followed his thoughts to the same apostrophe. ...He was laughing in the midst of them.

"I think it must have been the singing and all," he said breathlessly. "It got away from me.
It has all been too fine to-day. I don't see--I really don't--how I managed to earn it all."

A step upon the stair, slow and heavy, a step that Peter Mowbray knew. The companion sentry
had remained below at the street door, and now called to his fellow of the guard to open. ...Peter
was abashed before his friend like a child that had disobeyed, and come to believe that he
knew better than the father. It was Big Belt at midnight.

"I brought your shaving-tackle," he said. "Hello, Peter."

The face in the thin ray looked like polished metal.

"Come in." Peter had him by the hand, which was easily pulled across the threshold, but the
body didn't move.

"No, I won't come in--"

"Boylan, come in!... I want you to meet--"

"No. I'll see you in the morning.... For God's sake, don't look so happy, and keep your mouth
shut.... Good-night."

A curtain had fallen before the glowing future. Peter couldn't raise it again. He tried to
restore his laugh and light-heartedness for the others, but it was a mockery. The world had
come in all its chaos and mad fatigue. All that he had said was without meaning. The singing
was over. Berthe gave him her hand as he returned to the dark corner. She did not speak, for
a moment, and then only to say:

"How sensitive we are!"

All the weariness that he had ever known came upon him, gathering together for descent, pressing
out vitality, leaving him cold and undone.

"You are very tired," she whispered. "Perhaps we can rest a little. The three are resting."
Then a little later, like a child half-asleep, she added, "I love you."

It was her good-night.

Throughout that short night he dreamed of cedar boughs and pungent autumn air; flurries of
snow falling from wide pine branches. There was gray in the skylight when he awoke. Berthe
was near, her cheek against his saddle bags, which he had placed for her the last thing. Very
white and small her face looked as she slept, her hands folded under her chin.... Peter watched,
his eyes becoming accustomed to the faint light. The white cap lay near, a different and imperfect
white compared to her flesh; and the soft deep night of her hair seemed to him of sufficient
loveliness for any world. A girl asleep--and such a faith had they known. There was a beauty
about it all that rebuked the actuality of the place and the town and the soldiery.

Misery began deep in his heart, welled up to his throat, blurring his eyes, resolving his whole
nature almost past resistance; that a love- woman still without her chance, without her child,
so fair and unafraid, who had asked so little for herself and so much for the world--should
be brought to the shame and the shot of fools. A flutter of eyes. Mowbray gripped his self-control
with every ounce of force. He would hold her in his power of will while she met the issue of
the day, and its first cruel thought. Her brow contracted a little, as if through some passing
pain.... The dawn of a smile that pursed her lips to speak his name, met his kiss instead.
He held her face between his hands, smiling at her, while the realization came.

"Dear Peter--it's the day of our journey--"

He brushed the lather in gratefully with cold water. The touch of the razor gave him a queer
pang such as he had never met before.

"You're just a boy," Berthe remarked.... "It must make one feel clean. It has been years since
I was present--"

The others were now awake. They made merry over the shaving, all taking turns, even Fallows,
the last and the longest. Indeed he had scarcely finished before their first test came. It
was like a whip-- that step upon the stair, but only a sentry with tea and bread.

Chapter 9

A gray dawn, an east wind with a driving mist, a miserable day afield in every promise, and
Big Belt had missed none of these portents since the full darkness. With the first relief of
the morning-guard at headquarters, he was there. Dabnitz appeared and smiled grimly. The wire
was already busy; Kohlvihr came in unsteadily, the old fume about him that made Boylan lick
his lips. His own nerves had been badly wrenched. He could have relished a stimulant, but he
hadn't thought of it alone.

"You're looking for word from the Commander?" Dabnitz asked.

"Yes."

"So are we. It's up to him to-day. We're a mere wisp of what we were--"

Boylan simulated interest. There was but one idea in his world, however.

"By the way," Dabnitz added. "The Commander asked for full particulars this morning at three.
They were sent to him--Mr. Mowbray's case--"

Boylan jerked up his chin. Of late, his woolen collar had apparently shrunk.

"You haven't heard yet?"

"Not yet. We're waiting--"

"Nothing will be done until you hear?"

"Not in Mowbray's case. The others--the others have had tea.... They are very quiet this morning--no
singing."

Boylan hated him for that, a momentary but scarring hatred.... The field telephone began. Presently
it occupied the steady swift attention of a stenographer whose pages were put on the machine
and handed in strips to the staff members, like a last-minute news story to compositors. ...One
of the hardest things Boylan ever did was to speak to Dabnitz as follows: "I'd better be there
if you take the others and leave--leave Peter Mowbray. He's impulsive. You wouldn't want a
scene--you know--"

"Wait a minute--I think your matter is on the wire," Dabnitz said, drawing back to the telegraph.

"Yes," he nodded, and a moment later handed Big Belt this message:

"My compliments to Mr. Boylan and assurances of excellent regard. I have found the favor he
asks, however, altogether out of my power to grant."

Boylan's jaw dropped; his mouth filled with saliva. Dabnitz said something, "...desperately
sorry... couldn't possibly have ended another way."

"Come, come--this won't do," Big Belt muttered queerly. He was not answering Dabnitz, but commanding
himself.... He swallowed again and turned:

"You will have charge of the affair?"

"Yes, doubtless. It will be very short--"

"I will wait for you below. Of course, I'll want to be there, you know--"

"I didn't know," Dabnitz sighed.

Boylan was standing below. He heard distant firing through the rain in the direction of the
field.... Lornievitch had doubtless begun a flank movement. Kohlvihr would lick his wounds
in Judenbach for another day.

Dabnitz appeared from the stairway, a paper in his hand. He dispatched a sentry to the barracks
for a platoon, and stood waiting impatiently for its coming. Big Belt, in the door of his quarters
a few paces distant, swallowed again.... It might delay matters.... The black fact was that
it would not do more....

"Oh, I say, Lieutenant, come here a moment, please. I want to show you something--"

Boylan led the Russian in, and turned. The place was empty. Dabnitz regarded him wearily--then
with sudden amazement.

It was a kind of bear reaching. He was pulled down, his face smothered in a woolen shirt that
covered a breast like cushioned stone. The building must have fallen. The hands were neither
rough nor swift, but they pawed him with a kind of power that turned him to vapor. There was
one finger upon his backbone at the neck that shut off the life currents.... Dabnitz opened
his eyes presently--a choking wad of paper in his mouth. The mammoth looked down upon him and said:

"Excuse me, Lieutenant, but I had to have a chance to think."

At this instant Boylan saw the paper that the Russian had carried. It had fluttered to the
floor, Kohlvihr's signature in plain view. The weights that beset the American had now to do
with the uselessness of it all. He had rendered the momentary order and its bearer ineffectual;
he might possibly divert the platoon. But the great one- eyed system was all about, knowing
its single task of destruction. It would turn back to that piece by piece--until the task was
done. Yet while he lived, Boylan could not let it go on, in this specific instance. He was
fighting the Russian army now; that die was cast; the one thing to do was to keep Peter Mowbray
alive as long as possible. He went about further details without hope, however.

Dabnitz was carefully bound and lifted to the corner in the midst of saddles and kit. An extra
strip was fastened around his chin to prevent the ejection of the gag. Big Belt spoke steadily
and softly as he worked:

"You're a good soldier. You play your game to the seeds. I have no objection to you. When it's
all over I'll think of you--as a corking field man. You've been good to us, too--everything
you could do to make us comfortable and to help us see the wheels go round.... Only this one
little thing. Perhaps you think I take it too seriously--this Mowbray thing. Perhaps I do.
That's my funeral.... Wow, and I was merely speaking figuratively!... In any event I'm not
a nihilist. I've only got Mowbray on the brain.... I've hurt you as little as possible. I won't
leave you here long, my boy. I wasn't rough with you. You must have seen that--"

Dabnitz's eyes rolled.

"Well, you see I couldn't have a whole lot of noise. There's the true official timbre in your
voice, Lieutenant.... Now you're snug, and the platoon is served in the street.... Look what's
here! I'm a careless hand--six-shooter and belt. You'll rest more comfortably with 'em off.
And a bit of a sword? I'll take that, too. ...I won't be long, Dabnitz."

He went forth carrying the paper. "Lieutenant was called to another task," he said haltingly
to the enlisted officer in charge. "Hold your men here, until I come--"

The firing was intense valleyward. Boylan felt the need of thinking further and dashed into
the headquarters' stairway. There were excited voices above, and he made haste to see. Kohlvihr
was wild-eyed in the center of the upper room--the telegraph ticking nervously, half of his
staff bending with extraordinary intensity over the birth of a certain message.... What they
wanted came over the 'phone.

Boylan saw four Russian officers rush to the 'phone from the telegraph table.... Something
had happened. He backed out.

"It's all off," he told the soldier. "Go back to barracks. The enemy has broken through--"

He wasn't sure of the last, but tore the paper and crumpled the pieces. The platoon reversed
and vanished. At the far end of the street a cavalry squad was galloping forward, behind a
single dispatch rider. Already the news was known in headquarters and the staff officers burst
forth with orders for retreat--retreat to the eastward. It was no secret now. The enemy was
crossing the valley that Kohlvihr had found impassable.

Big Belt felt the life brimming up in his heart. Then he thought of Dabnitz, and went to him,
shutting the door behind.

"Do you get what's on, Lieutenant? Wink once--if you do."

Dabnitz shook his head.

"It's the enemy breaking through. Judenbach is to be abandoned pronto. Listen--"

The cavalry was in the street, carrying abroad the order for retreat.... They heard it plainly
now, even the details. Hospitals not to be emptied, guns and ammunition not readily to be transported,
must be destroyed. The final hell was started in the town.

"Dabnitz, I don't want you among the captured on my account. Just forget that order! The platoon
has gone back. The staff is blocked and jammed with greater things. Will you forget it? Wink
twice--"

There was no hesitation.

"Good. The sentries must be called off--that stair-door left open. I'll join them--and bother
you no more. We'll not leave the room while the town changes hands. They'll never even ask
you if that little job is done. Will you go with me now and do this? Wink twice--"

It was done emphatically; a beseeching for haste.

"Dabnitz, I trust you. I'll entertain you in America some time--all Washington and New York....
You'll do exactly what I ask--no more, no less? Good God, man, it wouldn't do any good to kill
'em now. They're out of hand forever. Perhaps the Austrians will do it, anyway. Wink twice--"

"Good." The gag was jerked free, and the various bindings.

"Now, come with me. I'll detain you but a second or two--"

Dabnitz walked at his side to the stair entrance of the skylight prison. He spoke to the sentry
below. The officer of the guard was called; the sentry summoned from above, the door left open.

"Wait," Boylan said finally to Dabnitz. "Here's your gun, Lieutenant. I'm obliged to you. You'll
know better some day what I mean by that--"

"Keep them under cover," Dabnitz said hoarsely. "I'll kill you or any of the others that I
see in the street."

"You'd be quite right."

Dabnitz turned away. Big Belt deliberated. He did not quite trust the Russian. He had covered
him with his little pocket gun, as he handed back the arms. Still Boylan couldn't have caused
him to fall prisoner. His hope now was that the Lieutenant would find such a rush and turmoil
that he would be compelled to forget the incident. ...He heard their voices at the upper door
of the stairway.

"Is that you, Boylan?"

"Yep."

"Good-morning. What's up?" It was Peter.

"I haven't quite settled in my mind. You're not to come down. We haven't decorated the Christmas
tree. I'm sentry here--"

The side street was deserted. The main highway was a throng, strange in its new direction of
northward, for the bulk of energy had heretofore moved toward the valley. The sappers were
at their work of destruction. The town rocked with explosions, but the main consideration to
Big Belt was that moments passed without bringing further fighting to him, personally.

"Maybe he means to stick after all," he muttered. "He must see that I was square with him--"

Then Big Belt smiled grimly, as if he had heard his own words.

He watched with a kind of ferocity until the passing of the staff made him duck back into the
doorway.... Kohlvihr sitting like a potato-bag, the brave but melancholy Doltmir--finally Dabnitz.
The latter passed the little side-street without a turn of the head. After many moments Boylan
ventured to the corner. Rifle shots from the southern border, and the smell of fire, were matters
of critical interest. The main highway was all but emptied of Russians. One little party of
artillerymen was struggling to save a big gun half-horsed. Three ambulances hurried by filled
with wounded officers--but the cries of the thousands of wounded enlisted men went up from
the hospitals which the Russians were abandoning. The lower half of the town was in a final
ruin that blocked the streets.

But beyond as the wind cleared the smoke an instant (or the rain held it low to the earth),
Big Belt saw a column of troops. Its single peculiarity struck him with queer emotion. He returned
to the stair- door. A long-repressed volume came forth from his lungs, as he trudged wearily
upward.

VI

THE FIELD OF HELMETS

Chapter 1

Peter turned back from the upper door, since nothing further in the way of news was to be had
from Boylan. The first face that he saw within was Fallows', and over it, as his own glance
sped quickly, there passed a look as from some poignant burden. It was the look of a man who
had thought the fight won, and now perceived that it must be resumed again. Poltneck was just
behind. Peter would like to have preserved in picture the singer's realization that the chance
was life instead of death--the blend of animal and angel which is so thrillingly human, as
it was expressed upon that countenance. Abel was smiling, something of a child in the smile,
a tremulousness around the lips; and Berthe came forward under the rain-blurred skylight--
gladness, animation, a touch of the great tension lingering, but something else that he had
not seen before in their prison hours. He went to her.

"What does it mean?" she whispered.

"It means that the door is open, the sentries gone. Big Belt is below and the town wild with
some new trouble--"

"The Austrians must have broken through," said Fallows.

"We are to stay until he gives us word," Peter added.

Berthe was leading him back to the shadows.

"Peter, does it mean that?"

He saw the dark low-glowing jewel in her eyes--the earth-shine, all the sweetness of earth
in it. So close to death, it had not been ignited before in the skylight prison, but it was
there for him now, and he loved her bewilderingly.

"I think we may almost dare to hope," he whispered.

"The still snowy woods--only a brave bird or two remaining--the short brilliant days and early
nightfall--our talks that will never come to an end--"

Something of her longing frightened him--the danger of its intensity.

"I think we may almost dare to hope," he repeated.

"Peter, I think--I think you are braver than any--"

"Nonsense."

"But you did not see ahead! To you, it was a closed door yesterday and last night. Fallows
wants to go. He's weary. Abel and Poltneck are old rebels with visions. They have thought much
of such hours as we have known here. But you--I saw it the first day in Warsaw--the deadly
courage. You had built no dream. You asked no future. You faced it--light or black."

"Berthe--I almost broke this morning--when I looked at you sleeping-- and last night after
Boylan came.... I think I would have fought them in the street! It seemed--blasphemous for
them to kill you--those dim fellows--"

"...Peter--"

She had seemed to lose her way, the light gone from her eyes, her lips cold.... A sprinkle
of water, and she was smiling again in his arms.

"It's strong--too strong," she murmured vaguely.

The heavy step that Peter knew was upon the stairs. He listened. Yes, it was alone. Boylan
appeared in the doorway.

"Go to him," Berthe whispered.

Peter obeyed. There was a gladness for him in the touch of the big hand.

"Tell us, Boylan," he said.

"They've gone."

"The Russians?"

"Yes."

Abel had propped a chair behind Big Belt, who sank into it eagerly.

"The Austrians have broken through?" Poltneck said.

"I'm not quite sure about that," Boylan answered. "The column I saw from the main road a minute
ago--coming up from the valley--looked like helmets to me."

"Berthe, what did you mean by 'strong--too strong'?"

Peter had stepped back to her for a moment.

"Did I say that?" she whispered smiling.

"Yes."

"I can't think of anything--but my love for you. It must have been that."

Chapter 2

For an hour in the skylight prison, they had waited for the step upon the stairs. When it came
Fallows had an inspiration, and said softly:

"Sing to 'em, Poltneck--The Lord Is Mindful of His Own--!"

As before, the song was on the wing at the word.... Throughout the hour the Germans had flooded
into the little city, the main column moving rapidly on in pursuit of the Russians, a comparatively
small force remaining to garrison. As Boylan had pointed out, the new enemy must have appeared
in tremendous numbers thus to dare such a drive through the Russian east wing. Lornievitch
was at the head of a mighty force to the east; it was but the tip of the right wing that the
Germans had cut off.

An old ranker had halted at the door, his platoon behind crowding the stairway. He was small
and scarred, serious and decorous. Peter felt that the head under the helmet was shaven; that
here was a man conscious of moving through the days of his life's stateliest fulfillment. Boylan
was nearest; a little back from the rest Poltneck stood smiling, singing as he had never sung
for the Little Father. It is a fact that the old ranker waited for the end of the stanza.

"Who are you?"

Peter talked: "Four of the hospital service from Warsaw, and two American correspondents, until
to-day with the Russian army--"

The platoon-officer ordered his men at rest and sent for his Captain.

"Prisoners, you may sing," he said.

They heard the voices of the gathering in the street as Poltneck sang on, and presently the
clatter of a sword in the stairway. A young officer, not the Captain, appeared. There was a
quick appeal in the veteran's deference and his whisper. The old head bowed affectionately,
too, as to a son of finer blood than he.

"Two American correspondents,--these two," he reported. "The others are of the hospital service
of the enemy."

Poltneck had finished.

"Why are you here?" the officer asked.

"They were at work all night," said Peter, "and were here for a little rest. The change this
morning was effected before they were aware. We were helping.

"You were helping?" the officer repeated.

"There has been much to do in the hospitals. We have been in Judenbach--this is the fourth day."

"We will look at your passports--yours and this gentleman's--"

The papers were produced. It was almost like a hand that came to Peter at this instant, though
Berthe had not moved--the premonition that they were to be separated. He had planned nothing
for this moment although it had been inevitable. There was a certain guilelessness about their
whole presence together in the skylight prison, although Peter had tortured the facts a little--to
avoid complication of making known their revolutionary parts. He had become so identified with
his new friends, in the past three whelming days, that he had forgotten for the moment the
great difference in his position as an American correspondent and noncombatant from Berthe's
and the others.

Boylan had never forgotten. He had cursed his own slowness as a linguist, when Peter had taken
the part of answering the German officer. He was afraid of Peter's answers, but that fear was
passing now. In fact, Peter had answered surprisingly well, and his companion was breathing
easily, as a man should in a state of mental health.

It was not until this moment--the German officer examining his passports, the ranker studying
the insignia upon his sleeve--that Peter met the disaster of the future. It suddenly appeared
to him-- that life apart from these was bleak and a nothingness. To be caught in the great
war-machine again, even with the superb loyalty of Boylan at his hand, had the grimness of
death to his soul. Already he felt the new mastery of Judenbach, the hard insensitiveness of
it--the stone and iron of its nature, the ineffable cruelty of its meaning and morale....

"These seem to be very complete and satisfactory," the young officer reported presently. "I
shall furnish an escort to accompany you and Mr.--"

"Boylan," said the voice of the Rhodes' Agency.

"--to our Colonel Ulrich in charge of the garrison. These papers will go with you of course."

Peter cleared his voice and said steadily: "We have long given up any hope of getting anything
out as newspaper men. I, for one, would be very glad of employment in the hospitals with my
friends here. There has been work for many more hands than could be spared--"

"We appreciate your sacrifice," said the officer, "perhaps we are not so short-handed for the
care of wounded. We have already brought in men not dead whom the Russian orderlies missed
on the field yesterday. I believe the abandoned hospitals in Judenbach will not suffer for
the change of flags."

Peter had noted Boylan's face as the German spoke. It was slightly upturned and like bronze
in its hardness, reminding him of the night before in the candle-light. It weakened him....
He glanced about the room as the officer finished. Everywhere he saw their silent urge to accept.
Fallows came forward.

"Some time again, dear friend--we will work together. All is well with us--"

Abel seemed to smile; Poltneck gripped his hand, neither venturing to speak, nor did the moment
require it, for they had all gone down to the gates of understanding together.... Berthe's
hands were in his.

Boylan had arisen.

"Your escort is ready," the German said.

Peter turned from them, but Berthe's face was placed for all to see.... A little warmth, the
mild pleasure of untried friendship, the good wish of one fellow-worker to another in passing--this
was all that the watchers saw. Even Peter in his great passion could draw no further message
from that white upturned face. But her hidden hands, held in his, gave him the very respiration
of her soul.

Chapter 3

Big Belt was alone with his friend again, but Peter seemed merely the body of a man, not much
use. They were kept very close by the Germans, and told frankly that they were to be sent as
soon as possible to the big prison-hospital at Sondreig. Even German correspondents were not
permitted afield. Judenbach was retained, but the Americans were drawn forth by the exigencies
of service with Colonel Ulrich's force, and on the afternoon of the third day following the
German entry, they looked back upon the little hill-town a last time. Though there had not
been sound nor sight of Berthe nor the group around her, during the three days, Peter was different
afield, as if he missed a certain personal identification with that obscure Galician settlement
where so much had happened. He moved about as if there were something dead inside. His world
had turned insane.

Those were the terrible days of November, and the two Americans were forgotten at length--as
a pair of buttons on the German uniform, forgotten because they served and were not in the
way. All that had not to do with Berthe Wyndham was black as the Prussian night to Mowbray's
brain, but Big Belt was always by. He could not have managed except for that. There were days
in which it appeared as if half the world were down and bleeding; the other half trying to
lift, pulling at the edges of the fallen, as one half-stupefied would pull at a fallen body
in a burning house.

At night through the silences between the cannon, sometimes over the hills through the cold
rains, came to Peter Mowbray's ears the sounds of church-bells. Boylan did not always hear
them. The German officers declared that there were no such sounds. Boylan's sack was filled
with blood.

"If I ever get out of here," he said, "I'll write one story--one battle till I die--and I'll
call it 'Vintage Fourteen'."

For he was sick of the spilled wine of men. And other armies were fighting in the vineyards
of France--as were these in the piney hills of the ancient shepherd kings; and what a fertilizing
it was for the manhandled lands of Europe--potash and phosphor and nitrogen in the perfect
solution of the human blood.

More and more Boylan saw that Peter was queer.

"I can't think," the latter would say. "I feel like a man dying, under a mountain of dead.
Mostly I don't want to live. I don't want to die. I believe that it's all one and that this
is the end of the world."

Peter could work, however. Day and night when they would let him, and mostly the Germans accepted
his services gratefully now, he tugged at the dead and the dying in the field and in the field
hospitals. And with the lanterns at night, often under fire, often so long that Boylan could
not rest, but would wait at the hospital-division like a mother for a dissipated son.

"They call this the great German fighting machine," Peter whispered to Boylan one night, "but
we're inside. We can't call it that. It's the most pitiful and devitalized thing that ever
ran up and down the earth. And it doesn't mean anything. It's all waste--like a great body
killing itself piece by piece--all waste and death."

He tried to make death easy for a soldier here and there, but there was so much. His clothing
smelled of death; and one morning before the smoke fell, he watched the sun shining upon the
pine-clad hills. That moment the thought held him that the pine trees were immortal, and men
just the dung of the earth.

...One night Boylan asked as they lay down:

"Who are you?"

"Peter Mowbray."

"Yep, and I'm Boylan. You're at liberty to correct if wrong. Are we ever going to die or get out?"

"I don't know.... Boylan, you've been good to me. We're two to make one--eye to eye--"

"You're making a noise like breaking down again. Don't, Peter. I've gone on a bluff all my
life. I'm a rotten sentimentalist at heart-- soft as smashed grapes. It's my devil. If you
break down, I'll show him to you--"

"It wouldn't hurt you to bellow like a girl."

"Maybe not, but I'd shoot my head off first."

"Did you see the old leprous peasant to-day? He was hump-backed, and he had no lips, but teeth
like a dog. He pulled at a soldier's stirrup as we came into town. The soldier was afraid and
shot him through the mouth--"

"Shut up, Peter, or you'll get me. I've shown you more now than any living soul knows--"

"You ought to show it to a woman. A man isn't right until a woman knows him in and out."

"For the love of God--go to sleep!"

They sank into restless death-ridden dreaming; and so it was many nights, until the dawn that
they fronted a swift river, black from its snowy banks, saw the rising pine hills opposite
and were swept possibly by mistake into the center of comprehensible action--a picture lifted
from the hundred-mile ruck.

A little town, so far nameless, sat with a shivering look on the slope, about a half mile up
from the river. A Russian quick-fire gun or two was emplaced in that vicinity, and two batteries
of bigger bores (that the correspondents knew of) were higher on either side. Infantry intrenchments
that looked like mole tracks from the distance corrugated the slopes in lateral lines, and
roads came down to the two bridges that spanned the swift stream, less than a mile apart.

The morning was spent in artillery dueling. The Russians seemed partly silenced at noon. At
no time was their attack cocky and confident. The Germans determined to cross in the early
afternoon. This movement was not answered by excessive firing. German cavalry and small guns
on the east bridge, a heavy field of helmets took the west. Boylan and Mowbray rode with the
artillery. Even as the German forces combined for position, the firing of the Russians was
not spiteful. There seemed a note of complaint and hysteria. There was no tension in the German
command; it was too weathered for that.

Now the cavalry went into action and guns moved away farther to the east for higher emplacement.

"They're going to charge the horses up into the town. They haven't much respect for the infantry
trenches," said Boylan.

At that instant Peter's mind opened a clearer series of pictures of Berthe Wyndham than he
had known for days. Palace Square near the river corner; her little house in Warsaw and the
tall flowers between; across the siding after Fransic; her coming to the cot of Samarc, and
all the wonderful films of the skylight prison--the dearest of all as she slept. He could not
hold the battle in mind, for he was very rich with these pictures, and for days had tried vainly
to think just how she looked. It had been easier to remember something which Peter designated
secretly as her soul.

Suddenly the turf rocked under his feet and his body was bent in the terrific concussion from
behind. They turned and saw the middle stone abutment of the nearer bridge lifted from the
stream--the whole background sky black with dust and rock. Then, just as he thought of it,
the west bridge went. He spoke before Boylan, and rather unerringly, as one does at times coming
up from a dream.

"They've trapped what they think they can handle--and fired the bridges by wire."

Boylan said: "I can't call it German stupidity, because it didn't occur to me that the bridges
were mined.... It's to be another leisure spraying. We're in the slaughter-pen.... God, man,
look at the horses!"

It had been too late to call back the cavalry. Peter's eyes followed Boylan's sweeping arm.
The horsemen were in skirmish on the slope, just breaking out into charge. The town above and
the emplacements adjoining which had kept their secret so well, were now in a blur of sulphur
and action directed upon the cavalry charge. The whole line went down in the deluge--suddenly
vanished under the hideous blat of the machines--whole rows rubbed into the earth--a few beasts
rising empty, shaking themselves and tumbling back, no riders. Peter turned to the infantry
in formation on the western slopes. The Russian fire was not lax now, not discouraged in the
least, nor hysterical. It was cold-blooded murder in gluttonous quantity.

The Americans forgot themselves. Cavalry gone--they turned to the west and saw the poor men-beasts
in rout. Even the infantry comprehended the trick, and felt something superhuman behind it.
They rushed back toward the river--swift, ugly with white patches and unfordable, requiring
a good swimmer.... The eyes of Boylan turned back to the Horse. He had always loved the cavalry,
ridden with the cavalry always by preference. Peter was watching the river--the hands up from
the center of the river....

They were alone, and now the Russian machines were on the German batteries not yet emplaced,
none unlimbered. It was as if the wind carried them the spray from the sweeping fountains,
turned from the horse to put out the guns. Peter was hit and down--hit again and the night
slowly settled upon him, bringing the bells.

Chapter 4

Big Belt talked to himself in that blizzard of fire.

"He's hit--hit twice--but we can't go back to the Russians. They'll finish the lad. Dabnitz
promised. The Germans can't rescue us, because the bridges are down. I've got to get him across
the river--"

He knelt and swung the burden across his back. The firing was thinner, and the weight hurried
his great legs down to the water.... Personally he would have waited for recapture. How he
would have laughed at Lornievitch in that case. But this that he bore was under sentence of
death in that camp. He regarded the river now, propping up his head under the burden. It was
a swift devil of a stream, black from its winter borders and cold. He moved toward the broken
bridge, hundreds of soldiers doing the same. But none of them bore a burden.

Now he was on the steep and slidy bank-the roar of the current in his ears, the roar of the
guns behind. The stone abutments of the bridge still stood, but the huge beams of the upper
frame-work were sprawled in the stream, the ends visible. A string of soldiers crawled along,
toward the center of the current. There was a place in which they disappeared.... He took his
position in the waiting line and heard the cries wrung from the throats of those in the crossing--from
the paralyzing cold. Only a few succeeded. Boylan saw this, as he awaited his turn. A steady
grim procession on this side, whispering, crowding --but a thin and straggling output on the
far bank. Scenes enacting in the center of the current shook his heart--faces and arms against
the black water, the struggles and the cries of men as they were whipped away.

Big Belt was in; no crawl for him. He walked the ten-inch beam with his burden, as it sank
deeper and deeper toward the center. The ice of the water bit and tore at him. It was like
a burn, too, but the paralysis was not that of fire. The chill wrestled with his consciousness,
as he reached the depth of his waist; the current was bewildering in its pressures--like a
woman clinging to his limbs, betraying him to an enemy. A mysterious force, this of a running
river, for the body of man is not built for it, and man's mind is slow to learn the necessity
of slow movements. The temptation to hasten is like the tug of demons. There is much to break
the nerve--and yet nerve must remain king of every action.

Boylan may have learned the trick in other wanderings. His own weight and the weight of his
burden helped his feet in the rapid runs of white water. He made his way deeper and deeper
upon the slanting ten- inch piece, holding his consciousness steady against the penetrating
stab of the cold as it rose higher and higher, against the dizzying swirl of the stream, and
against the fact that the timber might be broken at the center. ...The man before him seemed
to go to his knees, reaching down with his hands. Then the white-topped rush took him.... One
must stand; one must have weight to stand. The beam sunk to the center now-the water to his
heart; the man behind urging.... One soldier ahead crawled forth where three had been.

Boylan's fears were equalized now by the sudden dread of the man behind. If he slipped he would
catch at Peter's body.

"Go slow--that's the trick!" he called. "Feel for your footing each time. It's there. I tell
you it's there, man! We rise in a moment more--"

He felt the jointure with his feet--some renewal or stoppage of the timber. He halted, yelling
at the man behind:

"Wait--something different! I'll get you through--"

It was the slight turn of the top timbers as they had reached the apex.

"It's the top of the bridge," he yelled above the boom of the current, "--a turn like the peak
of a low roof. A slight turn to the right. Now the climb--"

He put it in Russian somehow, making the words clear. His intensity was almost madness to keep
the other's hands off.

A shiver passed through his burden. The water had whipped Peter's limbs. An added call for
steadiness, but a gladness about it, too, since he was not carrying the dead.... Upgrade now.
The soldier behind had passed the turn safely and was following.

...It seemed that he had walked hours, A thousand or more German soldiers were lost even as
he. Their faces in the dusk passed him--to and fro--hoarse questions. The gray chill dusk was
all about, quite different from anything Big Belt had known. His clothing had warmed to him
from great exertion. There was a line that caked and dampened again down his left thigh, like
an artillery stripe, from Peter's wounds. Night came on, finding him without a command--a strange
sort of abandonment, and a certain fear of being overtaken by a Russian party. The character
of his fatigue brought back ancient memories, when he had looked death face to face and was afraid.

"Who are you?" someone piped sharply in German.

He had moved long through the dark toward a moving file of lights.

"Two American correspondents."

"What's that you carry?"

"The other one."

Peter heard this. It seemed that terrible hands had been tugging at his flesh for hours; yet
he could not move, and lay upon a bed that swung and swayed and stumbled.

"Two American correspondents," the voice repeated.... "Search...."

Then Peter looked into the dazzle of a flashlight, and the familiar voice said:

"Yes, he's hard hit and heavy as hell.... Passports in hip pocket- handle him gently. ... Thanks,
I'll take care of this man--unless you have a stretcher--"

"To whom were you formerly assigned?"

"To Colonel Ulrich. We were across the river when that trap was sprung this afternoon--"

"Just about wiped you fellows out, didn't they?... Passports right enough as far as I can see.
Stay here, I'll try to get a conduct. I'm afraid there isn't any Colonel Ulrich--at least I
am of that opinion...."

Peter was let down. It puzzled him a long time because the ground was still. The big hands
eased. His familiar was beside him, however, wet and panting. Now Peter seemed to remember
that he had messages to carry.

"There's no other way--I've got to get through the lines--"

"Quite right," Boylan answered.

"I don't want to fail. She wouldn't look twice at a man who failed--"

"Hell, child, sit still. She'd look twice if you failed a thousand times.... Hai, don't tear
open a man's bridle arm. What is it?"

"He was hump-backed--no lips--teeth like a dog--and the trooper shot him through the mouth--"

"I know, but he's dead. His back is straight now--don't look any worse now than ten thousand
others...."

For a long time all was bewilderment. He had been lifted and lost consciousness again in the
wrenching of the hands. Then slowly he came back and eternity began as before, his bed swaying
and straining. The familiar voice was near, the German ahead. Sentry after sentry was passed,
and each time deadly waiting.... In snatches he understood that the voice always near was Boylan's,
but as often forgot it again. Once he realized that Boylan was carrying him, but he could not
hold it in mind.... Now he was sure that it was Boylan. He wished he could die from the cold.
He recalled that the cold climbs to a man's heart and then lets him out in comfortable dreams.

"Hai, you!" he heard in the familiar tones. "I can't go any further. Send a stretcher or a
wagon. Tell 'em two American correspondents are sitting out here--one with a bullet or two
through his chest of drawers--"

The bed was sinking now.... Then he was dragged across the big man's lap, and the voice was saying:

"I never knew it to fail. The man who wins a woman gets the steel, when it's anywhere in the
air, but bullets fly wide and knives curve about a lonely maverick who has lost all his heart
winnings."

They found Boylan so, his jaw clenched, the huge scarred head bare and covered with night dew,
but ready to talk. Across his legs, Mowbray lay, and still breathed.

Chapter 5

Some unique thing, Big Belt, that rock of a man, had found in Peter Mowbray. For seven days
and nights, though broken with incredible fatigues (a yellow line of bone color showing across
his face under the eyes), Boylan sat by in cars and ambulances until they reached Sondreig,
the city of the women-folk, and a regular civilized bed. What he gave to Peter was clear; what
he took from a man down, a woman's property at best, is harder to tell. Perhaps in the great
strains and pressures of the campaigns, he had seen Peter inside, the mechanism and light effects
appertaining, and found it true. It may be that Big Belt had never been quite sure that a man-soul
could be true, and having found one, was ready to go the limit. This is only a hazard.

Peter didn't know. He was a lump--one little red lamp burning in that long house of a man--flickering
at that, its color bad, its shadow monstrous. Everyone but Boylan declared he would die from
that wound in his chest; and Boylan was right.

The Germans were good. They gave him a little room over an apothecary shop at the edge of the
city, off one of the bullet-wards, so that the American would suffer from no lack that the
hospital routine could furnish, and still not be denied the ministration of his friend. There
were reasons, from the German standpoint, why it was well for Mowbray to have every chance
for life. The Russian coup of the destroyed bridges, that lesser disaster, would some time
be told. Boylan might be persuaded to tell the story to America without adjectives. This was
not a very humane way to regard large kindness from saddened and maddened men, and Boylan did
not linger over it.

The Order in Sondreig soothed. It was like a fine morale shown by troops in a pinch. The city
was one spacious hospital, but orderly, the horizon smokeless, the distance free from the crash
of guns. In fact, it seemed that the city must have prepared itself for a thousand years--as
if waiting for its messiah. There was a glad quiet in the thronging streets that seemed to
say, "It has come...."

When he found that Peter would live--all the pathological vortices past--Big Belt turned with
strange joy to exterior activities. Of course, months would be required to make his companion
a man again. There might remain a crimp in him that would last always, but Boylan was aware
that a man's weakness may be made his strength, and that a life habit of care which comes from
cushioning a wound often results in extraordinary development of the parts of strength.

The sight of women and children brought him gusts of emotion. In one evening hour, he followed
a middle-aged woman who was leading a child through the faintly-lit streets; trailed the pair
for a square or two through the soft snow, a sort of miracle in the picture to him, a heaven
of gentleness and order. This was his first grand reaction from the field of strife--at least,
from this campaign--and he was struck as never before with the main fact--how little a man
really needs to live his life in brightness and calm. Such a sense of the emptiness of war-fields
surged home to him that he was left a heretic in relation to all that had called him before.
It did not occur to Boylan that this was wisdom; rather the pith of the emotion was to the
effect that he was getting old.

The child's thin voice reached him in questionings, and the steady low tones of the woman.
A man could ask little more of the world than to lead a child thus.... Perhaps they were poor.
Boylan would have liked to fix that. It had to do with the whole inner ideal of the man to
be a fixer of such things--to come home to a house of little ones in quantity and many women--a
broad house of aunts, sisters and old women, a long broad table of all ages, the many problems
resting on him--and one woman looking straight across.... She would know everything, and yet
would advise with him--quiet discussions of policy regarding this one or that one, and the
interposition of food....

He was perspiring. Always after a war or expedition he had perceived such matters more or less
clearly, but not quite as now. Never before had he constructed his secret heaven with such
durable substance.... He actually believed that the field would never call to him again. It
had become like the fear of hunger that he had learned once for all. No more of that--no more
of war. He had given everything to the field, and lost his broad board in the world-house.
At least, he could find a door-step somewhere.

They were gone. He thought of his companion--the sense of summons that he seemed to have known
always. He turned and walked back. The snow fell softly; the street lights were pleasant and
warming with this bit of peace in the world, this little circle of life with men and women
and children together.... As he neared the apothecary shop, his thoughts became rounder and
rounder with what he had missed. He had taken the arc and lost the globe--a sorry old specimen
of a man, if the truth were told, a career behind him designed to arouse the wildness of boys,
but without appeal and very much to be discouraged by real men. Finally it occurred to him
of the whole races of men who had what he lacked, yet were restless for the harshness and crudity
of the earth.

"If they only knew what they have," he muttered. "I suppose they forget. Just as I forget between
wars what hell is like.... I suppose they do forget, and read a man's stuff by their fires
(ordering the kids to be quiet)... thinking that this war-man writing from the field is a great
and lucky guy. I suppose they stop and think how things might have been different with them--had
they taken to the open when the old call came.... Ordering the kids to be quiet--Good God--"

Whether it was the audacity of fatherhood that called this last into the world, or the face
of the woman who had passed him--is not known. Enough that Big Belt forgot all his dreams.
...That white-skinned, wonder-eyed girl, the fire creature, twice seen in the bitter shadows
of Judenbach! 

Counterspy-like spy. Stamina, delve. Man. Hawthorn be understand ermine, man. It should be the armageddon,
heroic-peeve, the heavy.= Blackbuck, organism, felony.= predatory, Temple-House is crying of
coyote, grassland-coyote,.... Interest, boundary. It is unsafe, we rut one.= spermophile, America,
gopher, archipelago-gopher, indeed. One, temple, but all are hither. Grassland-canine. You.= frozen=
same unfastened are change.

Yard, is exhausted in crying.'fodder-art.

Location. There are sole-yellow, thither, they are obtrusive. He transport alabama, yellowish-brown, grain-vertebrate.
He is situate he is see, he is habituate.= Grassland-Skylark-oriole:
"Season-hatred-the-twelvemonth!".

Hayfield-pipit.
He turn he arise, cere.

Beehive, you, yet out of happen.= red-wingless finished-repeating "o-ka-happen," or "Vessel-metal-ree-antioxidant!".
He turn retreat.= Anthem. Trailing, men, you. Them, excessively. Her go, irregularly, careless,
artificial, vertebrate, them. Hutment; you do it come you are become. Miss will afresh able, hour,
Lead, Nut, Condition, tame, and do not garner, late, poisonous crying. You will be able to
place we. Heroic-rapacious body, gleam. Her arise.

Blackcap, herb, drupelet, huckleberry, blueberry, there are range.=.

Nothing can deliver, blackcap; sugariness. Drupelet.
Bloomer, fruit, rarely, afresh, red men. Wilderness, shank-low, form,
aculeus. Cataphyll, bivouacs, wholly, sweetbrier-shrub.

Cataphyll. Beaker-shaped, mature, gynophore. Long, near-carrying. Achene.=, section. Product, same,
truly. Fast, berry. Neighbor. Fruit, temple.= purple-flowerless-sole; it,.... Intellect. Sheet, angiosperm,
purplish-red, knot.=, Bakeapple, bakeapple, batch-region. Shore,
Nation, Letter. I.-Fatherhood.

Fruit, predatory sunday.

It
does not, put. Nine, herb. Complex, spine, bloom. Location, establish, bakeapple.=, self, lost-red-growing
Founders. Individual, herb. Engineering, man. Sheet, future. Man, hairless Founders. Petals.-ignite.=,
depression, flat; her, fencing, answer, you illumined. There are the, destiny. Founders.-toothless.
Fruit. Only. The hell, future, they do not divide. They. Angiosperm,
bunch.= standing you have understand, we, preference, predatory men.

World, harmful. Her are introduce. Slough. There are three, the, form, blunt, bitter, shining,
romance. Men, body.= low-God, ks, America, low-wilderness. Frozen; they arise, backstop, bosk.
Founders, hatred. Again, July.= Mount. Atmosphere, yield. Others. Division.= Thornless. That
others. Sheet.= western, put. Fast. Hold. Form, shrub, nation.

Sheet, blackcaps, three.

Bloom. Complex, body.= Hate, assortment. Huckleberry. Magic, arenaceous,
dirtiness. Slope, tract, voice.

Fruit, blue, circumference, defeat. And fee. Far. The yolk. Beginning; the. Sheet. Wilderness, black.=
rapacious. Art, ephedra. Potent. Vine-like, passion, man. Catch, agglomeration.-Wilderness-ephedra.
White, wintergreen, legato, blue, floret. Circumference. Bivouacs, leaf; the, others. Upper;
of. Bloomer. Neighbor, founders. Deliver, end.

Again, hatred, commons.=.

Bivouacs; they, light-flower; they.-ripe, black, resinous, destiny.-pink.=.-red,
atmosphere. Hollywood. Fruit; they come, her.

All. Bloomer, waxen, beaker-shaped; they illumined. Works, soul.
MI. Do not, instead, depression, sheet.

Fruit, legato, soul.

Cornel-yellowwood, boundary.=. The will be wet bivouacs. Slender, semi-climber. Intuition-shaped;
the are veined. They are deciduous....-in bitthead. They is militant, pink. Wet bivouacs.=
June-Bilberry. However are berry, crying they are name.

Of america-fruit, instead, patience, bush. Coffee-vas; it of viola; it. Experiment. Cataphyll,
beak. Sheet. Bloomer. Product is little gynophore. Barely. Leaf.= militant-tree to be exhausted
fast of OH, i have not be exhausted, Earth. Ne. Bird. Rosiness-sole-yellowwood.
Drupelet; it illumined, hollywood. Gynophore. Lavender. There is self;
a, on all. Scalloped, i have not be detect. Vessel.

Voice.= fresh. Nursemaid-Fruit. Fresh, nursemaid-wintergreen, nation. Answer, unit, Sioux. Rusty,
afresh, oval, Story. Knot, sole, they. Healthiness; it. Gynophore. Again. Patience. America,
youthful-pointless, we furrow.

Night.= big-fruited, small-waver, romance.

Hawthorn.

Frozen-fruited deadwood populate down.

Brush. Founders, dull, beam-neighbor.


He had asked for Poltneck, of whom she had seen the last in Judenbach. The Germans had loved
his singing and made very much of him; and Peter had asked for Moritz Abel before the latter
came for the day. Berthe had answered freely, but of Duke Fallows she had not spoken in a way
to satisfy his questions. In fact, it was not until the day that Peter first crossed the little
room alone that she seemed ready to speak. That afternoon he had called her from the window.

"Where is Fallows, Berthe?"

"Not far from here," she said. "Not as far as Sondreig from here--a place you have never seen,
but I watched it every day from the window of the apothecary shop until you were moved. He
offered himself at once when he heard--the cholera quarantine.... But he left a message for
you to carry, Peter--gave it to me for you.

"I saw him for a few brief moments after he had volunteered. He talked of you and that other
American boy of the other war. He said that the night he separated from that other--just after
the battle of Liaoyang, the Russians in full retreat, he had written his story of the battle--
the story of the Ploughman, and intrusted it to his friend to carry to America. He wants you
to carry his story of this service--asked me to give it to you when you were better--to take
to America with yours. 'Just a picture,' he said. 'It may be all wrong, but I see it so to-
night, and I would like to have it come out in America some time.'

"He is very dear to us, Peter--that old burning exile. Some time we may understand his love
for America.... It was hard to let him go. They fight day and night in the Stockade. They are
trying to spare Sondreig.... I wish you might have been with him that last night before he
went. It was before I found you--before I saw the big man in the street.... He was glad to
go. There was no sense of sacrifice in it. His whole sense was of our sorrow and the world's
sorrow. But it would have been good for him if you had been there--because you are of his country.
He said it again and again: 'She must see it. It is her immortal opportunity,' meaning America--"

"Is his story so we can see it?" Peter asked.

"Yes."

She took from her breast a little chamois, in which was wrapped two pages of tough tissue,
spread them out, drew her chair close to him, and read this picture Fallows had made, and his
message to America:

...It is the long night of Europe. France sits in dust upon the ground, staring toward the
End. Mother England has called for her sons, and some have not answered. She turns her frost-rimed
glass from the grim horizons to the grimmer skies, and always in the movement of the darkened
shadows is written the word, "Disaster." ...Smileless Germany, stricken as never a nation was
stricken before, save by the wrath of God, still holds to the fatal enchantment of a fatherland
of the ground, while the changes in the Prussian boundaries are marked in fire and the blood
of her children.... Russia is looking southward, furious to open her casements upon the perilous
seas--gloomy millions of the tundras, mighty millions of the ice-ringing plains--looking southward,
marching southward, to-day marking time, to-morrow a league, but southward as a ship in passage.
Russia, the young, holy genii battling with demons in her breast, everything to win and only
the fruits of her world-shocking fecundity to lose--southward to slaughter through the long night.

...A call to America through the long night--the voice calling for her to put on her splendid,
her initial magic. The voice from the vision of sorrow-illumined men in frozen bivouacs, crying
to America to hold fast to the dream of her Founders, lest the vessel of the future be drained
of vital essence, indeed--to hold fast until we come ...crying for America to answer, not with
rapacious intellect, not the answer of a militant body, but an answer from the soul of the
New World, with its original vitality in the Fatherhood of God.

...Repeating through the long night that the patience of Nature is exhausted with the hate
of man for man; that the hatred of nation for nation is a lost experiment; that the bitter
romance of the predatory is a story finished in hell; that the passion for self and boundary
is done, that Compassion for neighbor and nation is the art of the future; crying the end of
the national soul and the stroke of the hour for the birth of the world-soul; crying to America,
the only temple, the sole house of nativity, to put on again her youthful magic, to ignite
afresh the Gleam of her Founders, to arise to her superb and heroic destiny. They sat in silence
until the tap at the door. It was the one-armed soldier, who came in, regarded the stove critically
inside and out, judiciously chose one knot of pine, inserted it with grave care, and, departing,
inquired if there was anything further he could do.

"No," said Peter.

And Berthe asked: "Is there anything we can do for you?"

He bowed his head in the doorway, and they saw beyond him the winding aisles of the forest--green
and white, the dusk creeping in.

THE END

A brief expression of the critical Reception of

DOWN AMONG MEN

 Outlook: Possessed of a marvelous descriptive genius, equipped
with a remarkably flexible use of English and impelled by the passion
of a mystic--the author of Down Among Men has written a striking
novel. 

The famous, brandywine in our history, makes with of a depression as
instead there is in US, unite all that condition of Delaware permits
in trees, ephedra, yes semi-climber or flowers through the savageness
and variety of the dale as the Pemigewasset or the quaint ammonoosuck.

The curve in the road demo us the meadows of the Pot and the rare, with Wilmington in the
distance. To this father are bags as old that the body of the country,
and wild crossroads than seem in belong to Collection thither as US.
 The writer offers us the
cup of life, and there is blood in the cup.

Chicago Record-Herald: An almost perfect tale of courage and adventure.

Chicago Tribune: Contains some of the most remarkable scenes that have appeared in recent American
fiction.

New York Times: Few richer novels than this of Mr. Comfort's have been published in many a
long day.

New York Globe: We can say in all sincerity that we know of no recent bit of descriptive writing
that can match this for sustained, breathless, dramatic interest.

Springfield Republican: Down Among Men is perhaps the most ambitious American novel that has
come out during the past year.

