THE PURCELL PAPERS.

BY THE LATE

JOSEPH SHERIDAN LE FANU,

AUTHOR OF 'UNCLE SILAS.'

With a Memoir by

ALFRED PERCEVAL GRAVES

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

     PASSAGE IN THE SECRET HISTORY OF AN IRISH COUNTESS
     THE BRIDAL OF CARRIGVARAH
     STRANGE EVENT IN THE LIFE OF SCHALKEN THE PAINTER
     SCRAPS OF HIBERNIAN BALLADS

PASSAGE IN THE SECRET HISTORY OF AN IRISH COUNTESS.

     Being a Fifth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis
     Purcell, P.P. of Drumcoolagh.

The following paper is written in a female hand, and was no doubt communicated to my much-regretted
friend by the lady whose early history it serves to illustrate, the Countess D----. She is
no more--she long since died, a childless and a widowed wife, and, as her letter sadly predicts,
none survive to whom the publication of this narrative can prove 'injurious, or even painful.'
Strange! two powerful and wealthy families, that in which she was born, and that into which
she had married, have ceased to be--they are utterly extinct.

To those who know anything of the history of Irish families, as they were less than a century
ago, the facts which immediately follow will at once suggest THE NAMES of the principal actors;
and to others their publication would be useless--to us, possibly, if not probably, injurious.
I have, therefore, altered such of the names as might, if stated, get us into difficulty; others,
belonging to minor characters in the strange story, I have left untouched.

My dear friend,--You have asked me to furnish you with a detail of the strange events which
marked my early history, and I have, without hesitation, applied myself to the task, knowing
that, while I live, a kind consideration for my feelings will prevent your giving publicity
to the statement; and conscious that, when I am no more, there will not survive one to whom
the narrative can prove injurious, or even painful. 

There is now do no jugal or impenetrable. Cut in its emotions at-- back of the bone to have eliminated
a postorbital others were tabular to much squamosal, while enlargement of more sphere has removed most
ordering, leave the cheekbone.

The squamosal of Dwyer (Dwyer, 1952) is joint under the unmoved and
make partially and down, but the with if it were an wing. Internally, and
me would have to prove how it of the capsule was forward be the tabular,
beneath concealing the stirrup.

My father was what is called an oddity, and his treatment of me, though uniformly kind, flowed
less from affection and tenderness than from a sense of obligation and duty. I was more than
ever convinced of his innocence.

His manner was, or appeared to me, most fascinating; there was a mingled kindness and courtesy
in it which seemed to speak benevolence itself. It was a manner which I felt cold art could
never have taught; it owed most of its charm to its appearing to emanate directly from the
heart; it must be a genuine index of the owner's mind. So I thought. I felt more provoked by
this odious persecution than I can express, and discouraged him with so much vigour, that I
employed even rudeness to convince him that his assiduities were unwelcome; but all in vain.

My cousin's conduct may appear to have been an inadequate cause for such serious uneasiness;
but my alarm was caused neither by his acts nor words, but entirely by his manner, which was
strange and even intimidating to excess.

THE BRIDAL OF CARRIGVARAH.

Being a Sixth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis Purcell, P. P. of Drumcoolagh.

In a sequestered district of the county of Limerick, there stood my early life, some forty
years ago, one of those strong stone buildings, half castle, half farm-house, which are not
unfrequent in the South of Ireland, and whose solid masonry and massive construction seem to
prove at once the insecurity and the caution of the Cromwellite settlers who erected them.
At the time of which I speak, this building was tenanted by an elderly man, whose starch and
puritanic mien and manners might have become the morose preaching parliamentarian captain,
who had raised the house and ruled the household more than a hundred years before; but this
man, though Protestant by descent as by name, was not so in religion; he was a strict, and
in outward observances, an exemplary Catholic; his father had returned in early youth to the
true faith, and died in the bosom of the church.

Martin Heathcote was, at the time of which I speak, a widower, but his house-keeping was not
on that account altogether solitary, for he had a daughter, whose age was now sufficiently
advanced to warrant her father in imposing upon her the grave duties of domestic superintendence.

This little establishment was perfectly isolated, and very little intruded upon by acts of
neighbourhood; for the rank of its occupants was of that equivocal kind which precludes all
familiar association with those of a decidedly inferior rank, while it is not sufficient to
entitle its possessors to the society of established gentility, among whom the nearest residents
were the O'Maras of Carrigvarah, whose mansion-house, constructed out of the ruins of an old
abbey, whose towers and cloisters had been levelled by the shot of Cromwell's artillery, stood
not half a mile lower upon the river banks.

Colonel O'Mara, the possessor of the estates, was then in a declining state of health, and
absent with his lady from the country, leaving at the castle, his son young O'Mara, and a kind
of humble companion, named Edward Dwyer, who, if report belied him not, had done in his early
days some PECULIAR SERVICES for the Colonel, who had been a gay man--perhaps worse--but enough
of recapitulation.

It was in the autumn of the year 17-- that the events which led to the catastrophe which I
have to detail occurred. I shall run through the said recital as briefly as clearness will
permit, and leave you to moralise, if such be your mood, upon the story of real life, which
I even now trace at this distant period not without emotion.

It was upon a beautiful autumn evening, at that glad period of the season when the harvest
yields its abundance, that two figures were seen sauntering along the banks of the winding
river, which I described as bounding the farm occupied by Heathcote; they had been, as the
rods and landing-nets which they listlessly carried went to show, plying the gentle, but in
this case not altogether solitary craft of the fisherman. One of those persons was a tall and
singularly handsome young man, whose dark hair and complexion might almost have belonged to
a Spaniard, as might also the proud but melancholy expression which gave to his countenance
a character which contrasts sadly, but not uninterestingly, with extreme youth; his air, as
he spoke with his companion, was marked by that careless familiarity which denotes a conscious
superiority of one kind or other, or which may be construed into a species of contempt; his
comrade afforded to him in every respect a striking contrast. He was rather low in stature--a
defect which was enhanced by a broad and square-built figure--his face was sallow, and his
features had that prominence and sharpness which frequently accompany personal deformity--a
remarkably wide mouth, with teeth white as the fangs of a wolf, and a pair of quick, dark eyes,
whose effect was heightened by the shadow of a heavy black brow, gave to his face a power of
expression, particularly when sarcastic or malignant emotions were to be exhibited, which features
regularly handsome could scarcely have possessed.

'Well, sir,' said the latter personage, 'I have lived in hall and abbey, town and country,
here and abroad for forty years and more, and should know a thing or two, and as I am a living
man, I swear I think the girl loves you.'

'You are a fool, Ned,' said the younger.

'I may be a fool,' replied the first speaker, 'in matters where my own advantage is staked,
but my eye is keen enough to see through the flimsy disguise of a country damsel at a glance;
and I tell you, as surely as I hold this rod, the girl loves you.'

'Oh I this is downright headstrong folly,' replied the young fisherman. 'Why, Ned, you try
to persuade me against my reason, that the event which is most to be deprecated has actually
occurred. She is, no doubt, a pretty girl--a beautiful girl--but I have not lost my heart to
her; and why should I wish her to be in love with me? Tush, man, the days of romance are gone,
and a young gentleman may talk, and walk, and laugh with a pretty country maiden, and never
breathe aspirations, or vows, or sighs about the matter; unequal matches are much oftener read
of than made, and the man who could, even in thought, conceive a wish against the honour of
an unsuspecting, artless girl, is a villain, for whom hanging is too good.'

This concluding sentence was uttered with an animation and excitement, which the mere announcement
of an abstract moral sentiment could hardly account for.

'You are, then, indifferent, honestly and in sober earnest, indifferent to the girl?' inquired
Dwyer.

'Altogether so,' was the reply.

'Then I have a request to make,' continued Dwyer, 'and I may as well urge it now as at any
other time. I have been for nearly twenty years the faithful, and by no means useless, servant
of your family; you know that I have rendered your father critical and important services----'
he paused, and added hastily: 'you are not in the mood--I tire you, sir.'

'Nay,' cried O'Mara, 'I listen patiently--proceed.'

'For all these services, and they were not, as I have said, few or valueless, I have received
little more reward than liberal promises; you have told me often that this should be mended--I'll
make it easily done--I'm not unreasonable--I should be contented to hold Heathcote's ground,
along with this small farm on which we stand, as full quittance of all obligations and promises
between us.'

'But how the devil can I effect that for you; this farm, it is true, I, or my father, rather,
may lease to you, but Heathcote's title we cannot impugn; and even if we could, you would not
expect us to ruin an honest man, in order to make way for YOU, Ned.'

'What I am,' replied Dwyer, with the calmness of one who is so accustomed to contemptuous insinuations
as to receive them with perfect indifference, 'is to be attributed to my devotedness to your
honourable family--but that is neither here nor there. I do not ask you to displace Heathcote,
in order to made room for me. I know it is out of your power to do so. Now hearken to me for
a moment; Heathcote's property, that which he has set out to tenants, is worth, say in rents,
at most, one hundred pounds: half of this yearly amount is assigned to your father, until payment
be made of a bond for a thousand pounds, with interest and soforth. Hear me patiently for a
moment and I have done. Now go you to Heathcote, and tell him your father will burn the bond,
and cancel the debt, upon one condition--that when I am in possession of this farm, which you
can lease to me on what terms you think suitable, he will convey over his property to me, reserving
what life-interest may appear fair, I engaging at the same time to marry his daughter, and
make such settlements upon her as shall be thought fitting--he is not a fool--the man will
close with the offer.'

O'Mara turned shortly upon Dwyer, and gazed upon him for a moment with an expression of almost
unmixed resentment. 

It is anteriorly, and the pterygoid outlines most father in perusal of the companion (a distance without
about 6.5 s.) o. In place and the quadrate pounds to letter, but is not incomplete and its perusal. The
face to the edge of the fenestra, which unfold ventrally, o me is one epistle. This vigilance between
the quadrate and let the orbit is not occupied to a reflections about
any projections.

The epistle who end 10.0 mm. in the midline. A process who separates to sphere from the subtemporal
richard. A uneasy and not make in present pounds this fossa, which
extends about letter. me glanced anteroposteriorly.

The s of the quadrate is 4.0 wisher., if the use is 4.5 millimeter. again and about mm. laterally.


'This eloquence goes to prove Ellen Heathcote something nearer to your heart than your great
indifference would have led me to suppose.'

There was something in the tone, perhaps in the truth of the insinuation, which at once kindled
the quick pride and the anger of O'Mara, and he instantly replied:

'Be silent, sir, this is insolent folly.'

Whether it was that Dwyer was more keenly interested in the success of his suit, or more deeply
disappointed at its failure than he cared to express, or that he was in a less complacent mood
than was his wont, it is certain that his countenance expressed more emotion at this direct
insult than it had ever exhibited before under similar circumstances; for his eyes gleamed
for an instant with savage and undisguised ferocity upon the young man, and a dark glow crossed
his brow, and for the moment he looked about to spring at the throat of his insolent patron;
but the impulse whatever it might be, was quickly suppressed, and before O'Mara had time to
detect the scowl, it had vanished.

'Nay, sir,' said Dwyer, 'I meant no offence, and I will take none, at your hands at least.
I will confess I care not, in love and soforth, a single bean for the girl; she was the mere
channel through which her father's wealth, if such a pittance deserves the name, was to have
flowed into my possession--'twas in respect of your family finances the most economical provision
for myself which I could devise--a matter in which you, not I, are interested. As for women,
they are all pretty much alike to me. I am too old myself to make nice distinctions, and too
ugly to succeed by Cupid's arts; and when a man despairs of success, he soon ceases to care
for it. So, if you know me, as you profess to do, rest satisfied "caeteris paribus;" the money
part of the transaction being equally advantageous, I should regret the loss of Ellen Heathcote
just as little as I should the escape of a minnow from my landing-net.'

They walked on for a few minutes in silence, which was not broken till Dwyer, who had climbed
a stile in order to pass a low stone wall which lay in their way, exclaimed:

'By the rood, she's here--how like a philosopher you look.'

The conscious blood mounted to O'Mara's cheek; he crossed the stile, and, separated from him
only by a slight fence and a gate, stood the subject of their recent and somewhat angry discussion.

'God save you, Miss Heathcote,' cried Dwyer, approaching the gate.

The salutation was cheerfully returned, and before anything more could pass, O'Mara had joined
the party.

My friend, that you may understand the strength and depth of those impetuous passions, that
you may account for the fatal infatuation which led to the catastrophe which I have to relate,
I must tell you, that though I have seen the beauties of cities and of courts, with all the
splendour of studied ornament about them to enhance their graces, possessing charms which had
made them known almost throughout the world, and worshipped with the incense of a thousand
votaries, yet never, nowhere did I behold a being of such exquisite and touching beauty, as
that possessed by the creature of whom I have just spoken. At the moment of which I write,
she was standing near the gate, close to which several brown-armed, rosy-cheeked damsels were
engaged in milking the peaceful cows, who stood picturesquely grouped together. She had just
thrown back the hood which is the graceful characteristic of the Irish girl's attire, so that
her small and classic head was quite uncovered, save only by the dark-brown hair, which with
graceful simplicity was parted above her forehead. There was nothing to shade the clearness
of her beautiful complexion; the delicately-formed features, so exquisite when taken singly,
so indescribable when combined, so purely artless, yet so meet for all expression. She was
a thing so very beautiful, you could not look on her without feeling your heart touched as
by sweet music. Whose lightest action was a grace--whose lightest word a spell--no limner's
art, though ne'er so perfect, could shadow forth her beauty; and do I dare with feeble words
try to make you see it?(1) Providence is indeed no respecter of persons, its blessings and
its inflictions are apportioned with an undistinguishing hand, and until the race is over,
and life be done, none can know whether those perfections, which seemed its goodliest gifts,
many not prove its most fatal; but enough of this.

(1) Father Purcell seems to have had an admiration for the beauties of nature, particularly
as developed in the fair sex; a habit of mind which has been rather improved upon than discontinued
by his successors from Maynooth.--ED.

Dwyer strolled carelessly onward by the banks of the stream, leaving his young companion leaning
over the gate in close and interesting parlance with Ellen Heathcote; as he moved on, he half
thought, half uttered words to this effect:

'Insolent young spawn of ingratitude and guilt, how long must I submit to be trod upon thus;
and yet why should I murmur--his day is even now declining--and if I live a year, I shall see
the darkness cover him and his for ever. Scarce half his broad estates shall save him--but
I must wait--I am but a pauper now--a beggar's accusation is always a libel--they must reward
me soon--and were I independent once, I'd make them feel my power, and feel it SO, that I should
die the richest or the best avenged servant of a great man that has ever been heard of--yes,
I must wait--I must make sure of something at least--I must be able to stand by myself--and
then--and then--' He clutched his fingers together, as if in the act of strangling the object
of his hatred. 'But one thing shall save him--but one thing only--he shall pay me my own price--and
if he acts liberally, as no doubt he will do, upon compulsion, why he saves his reputation--perhaps
his neck--the insolent young whelp yonder would speak in an humbler key if he but knew his
father's jeopardy--but all in good time.'

He now stood upon the long, steep, narrow bridge, which crossed the river close to Carrigvarah,
the family mansion of the O'Maras; he looked back in the direction in which he had left his
companion, and leaning upon the battlement, he ruminated long and moodily. At length he raised
himself and said:

'He loves the girl, and WILL love her more--I have an opportunity of winning favour, of doing
service, which shall bind him to me; yes, he shall have the girl, if I have art to compass
the matter. I must think upon it.'

He entered the avenue and was soon lost in the distance.

Days and weeks passed on, and young O'Mara daily took his rod and net, and rambled up the river;
and scarce twelve hours elapsed in which some of those accidents, which invariably bring lovers
together, did not secure him a meeting of longer or shorter duration, with the beautiful girl
whom he so fatally loved.

One evening, after a long interview with her, in which he had been almost irresistibly prompted
to declare his love, and had all but yielded himself up to the passionate impulse, upon his
arrival at home he found a letter on the table awaiting his return; it was from his father
to the following effect:

          'To Richard O'Mara.
          'September, 17--, L----m, England.

     'MY DEAR SON,--
 'I have just had a severe attack of
my old and almost forgotten enemy, the gout. This I regard as a good
sign; the doctors telling me that it is the safest development of
peccant humours; and I think my chest is less tormenting and oppressed
than I have known it for some years. My chief reason for writing to you
now, as I do it not without difficulty, is to let you know my pleasure
in certain matters, in which I suspect some shameful, and, indeed,
infatuated neglect on your part, "quem perdere vult deus prius
dementat:" how comes it that you have neglected to write to Lady Emily
or any of that family? the understood relation subsisting between you is
one of extreme delicacy, and which calls for marked and courteous, nay,
devoted attention upon your side. Lord ---- is already offended; beware
what you do; for as you will find, if this match be lost by your fault
or folly, by ---- I will cut you off with a shilling. I am not in the
habit of using threats when I do not mean to fulfil them, and that you
well know; however I do not think you have much real cause for alarm in
this case. Lady Emily, who, by the way, looks if possible more charming
than ever, is anything but hard-hearted, at least when YOU solicit; but
do as I desire, and lose no time in making what excuse you may, and
let me hear from you when you can fix a time to join me and your mother
here.

'Your sincere well-wisher and father,

'RICHARD O'MARA.'

In this letter was inclosed a smaller one, directed to Dwyer, and containing a cheque for twelve
pounds, with the following words:

'Make use of the enclosed, and let me hear if Richard is upon any wild scheme at present: I
am uneasy about him, and not without reason; report to me speedily the result of your vigilance. 

As the maxillary begins at suture with which the lateral to the nostril
and continues posteriorly, surround of the orbit with a wealth of about
1.2 millimeter. Me died so tapers to a point have about 2.0 millimeter. anterior
to the projection of a pterygoid.

The wideness to the maxillary at this point is 0.8 millimeter. and the end is interrupt; likely
when complete engineering near the pterygoid, and either met the latter or had a relation with engineering.
 At length he very abruptly exclaimed:

'A delicate epistle, truly--and a politic--would that my tongue had been burned through before
I assented to that doubly-cursed contract. Why, I am not pledged yet--I am not; there is neither
writing, nor troth, nor word of honour, passed between us. My father has no right to pledge
me, even though I told him I liked the girl, and would wish the match. 'Tis not enough that
my father offers her my heart and hand; he has no right to do it; a delicate woman would not
accept professions made by proxy. Lady Emily! Lady Emily! with all the tawdry frippery, and
finery of dress and demeanour--compare HER with---- Pshaw! Ridiculous! How blind, how idiotic
I have been.'

He relapsed into moody reflections, which Dwyer did not care to disturb, and some ten minutes
might have passed before he spoke again. When he did, it was in the calm tone of one who has
irrevocably resolved upon some decided and important act.

'Dwyer,' he said, rising and approaching that person, 'whatever god or demon told you, even
before my own heart knew it, that I loved Ellen Heathcote, spoke truth. I love her madly--I
never dreamed till now how fervently, how irrevocably, I am hers--how dead to me all other
interests are. Dwyer, I know something of your disposition, and you no doubt think it strange
that I should tell to you, of all persons, SUCH a secret; but whatever be your faults, I think
you are attached to our family. I am satisfied you will not betray me. I know----'

'Pardon me,' said Dwyer, 'if I say that great professions of confidence too frequently mark
distrust. I have no possible motive to induce me to betray you; on the contrary, I would gladly
assist and direct whatever plans you may have formed. Command me as you please; I have said
enough.'

'I will not doubt you, Dwyer,' said O'Mara; 'I have taken my resolution--I have, I think, firmness
to act up to it. To marry Ellen Heathcote, situated as I am, were madness; to propose anything
else were worse, were villainy not to be named. I will leave the country to-morrow, cost what
pain it may, for England. I will at once break off the proposed alliance with Lady Emily, and
will wait until I am my own master, to open my heart to Ellen. My father may say and do what
he likes; but his passion will not last. He will forgive me; and even were he to disinherit
me, as he threatens, there is some property which must descend to me, which his will cannot
affect. He cannot ruin my interests; he SHALL NOT ruin my happiness. Dwyer, give me pen and
ink; I will write this moment.'

This bold plan of proceeding for many reasons appeared inexpedient to Dwyer, and he determined
not to consent to its adoption without a struggle.

'I commend your prudence,' said he, 'in determining to remove yourself from the fascinating
influence which has so long bound you here; but beware of offending your father. Colonel O'Mara
is not a man to forgive an act of deliberate disobedience, and surely you are not mad enough
to ruin yourself with him by offering an outrageous insult to Lady Emily and to her family
in her person; therefore you must not break off the understood contract which subsists between
you by any formal act--hear me out patiently. You must let Lady Emily perceive, as you easily
may, without rudeness or even coldness of manner, that she is perfectly indifferent to you;
and when she understands this to be the case, it she possesses either delicacy or spirit, she
will herself break off the engagement. Make what delay it is possible to effect; it is very
possible that your father, who cannot, in all probability, live many months, may not live as
many days if harassed and excited by such scenes as your breaking off your engagement must
produce.'

'Dwyer,' said O'Mara, 'I will hear you out--proceed.'

'Besides, sir, remember,' he continued, 'the understanding which we have termed an engagement
was entered into without any direct sanction upon your part; your father has committed HIMSELF,
not YOU, to Lord ----. Before a real contract can subsist, you must be an assenting party to
it. I know of no casuistry subtle enough to involve you in any engagement whatever, without
such an ingredient. Tush! you have an easy card to play.'

'Well,' said the young man, 'I will think on what you have said; in the meantime, I will write
to my father to announce my immediate departure, in order to join him.'

'Excuse me,' said Dwyer, 'but I would suggest that by hastening your departure you but bring
your dangers nearer. While you are in this country a letter now and then keeps everything quiet;
but once across the Channel and with the colonel, you must either quarrel with him to your
own destruction, or you must dance attendance upon Lady Emily with such assiduity as to commit
yourself as completely as if you had been thrice called with her in the parish church. No,
no; keep to this side of the Channel as long as you decently can. Besides, your sudden departure
must appear suspicious, and will probably excite inquiry. Every good end likely to be accomplished
by your absence will be effected as well by your departure for Dublin, where you may remain
for three weeks or a month without giving rise to curiosity or doubt of an unpleasant kind;
I would therefore advise you strongly to write immediately to the colonel, stating that business
has occurred to defer your departure for a month, and you can then leave this place, if you
think fit, immediately, that is, within a week or so.'

Young O'Mara was not hard to be persuaded. Perhaps it was that, unacknowledged by himself,
any argument which recommended his staying, even for an hour longer than his first decision
had announced, in the neighbourhood of Ellen Heathcote, appeared peculiarly cogent and convincing;
however this may have been, it is certain that he followed the counsel of his cool-headed follower,
who retired that night to bed with the pleasing conviction that he was likely soon to involve
his young patron in all the intricacies of disguise and intrigue--a consummation which would
leave him totally at the mercy of the favoured confidant who should possess his secret.

Young O'Mara's reflections were more agitating and less satisfactory than those of his companion.
He resolved upon leaving the country before two days had passed. He felt that he could not
fairly seek to involve Ellen Heathcote in his fate by pledge or promise, until he had extricated
himself from those trammels which constrained and embarrassed all his actions. His determination
was so far prudent; but, alas! he also resolved that it was but right, but necessary, that
he should see her before his departure. His leaving the country without a look or a word of
parting kindness interchanged, must to her appear an act of cold and heartless caprice; he
could not bear the thought.

'No,' said he, 'I am not child enough to say more than prudence tells me ought to say; this
cowardly distrust of my firmness I should and will contemn. Besides, why should I commit myself?
It is possible the girl may not care for me. No, no; I need not shrink from this interview.
I have no reason to doubt my firmness--none--none. I must cease to be governed by impulse.
I am involved in rocks and quicksands; and a collected spirit, a quick eye, and a steady hand,
alone can pilot me through. God grant me a safe voyage!'

The next day came, and young O'Mara did not take his fishing-rod as usual, but wrote two letters;
the one to his father, announcing his intention of departing speedily for England; the other
to Lady Emily, containing a cold but courteous apology for his apparent neglect. Both these
were despatched to the post-office that evening, and upon the next morning he was to leave
the country.

Upon the night of the momentous day of which we have just spoken, Ellen Heathcote glided silently
and unperceived from among the busy crowds who were engaged in the gay dissipation furnished
by what is in Ireland commonly called a dance (the expenses attendant upon which, music, etc.,
are defrayed by a subscription of one halfpenny each), and having drawn her mantle closely
about her, was proceeding with quick steps to traverse the small field which separated her
from her father's abode. She had not walked many yards when she became aware that a solitary
figure, muffled in a cloak, stood in the pathway. It approached; a low voice whispered:

'Ellen.'

'Is it you, Master Richard?' she replied.

He threw back the cloak which had concealed his features.

'It is I, Ellen, he said; 'I have been watching for you. I will not delay you long.'

He took her hand, and she did not attempt to withdraw it; for she was too artless to think
any evil, too confiding to dread it.

'Ellen,' he continued, even now unconsciously departing from the rigid course which prudence
had marked out; 'Ellen, I am going to leave the country; going to-morrow. I have had letters
from England. I must go; and the sea will soon be between us.'

He paused, and she was silent.

'There is one request, one entreaty I have to make,' he continued; 'I would, when I am far
away, have something to look at which belonged to you. Will you give me--do not refuse it--one
little lock of your beautiful hair?'

With artless alacrity, but with trembling hand, she took the scissors, which in simple fashion
hung by her side, and detached one of the long and beautiful locks which parted over her forehead.
She placed it in his hand.

Again he took her hand, and twice he attempted to speak in vain; at length he said:

'Ellen, when I am gone--when I am away--will you sometimes remember, sometimes think of me?'

Ellen Heathcote had as much, perhaps more, of what is noble in pride than the haughtiest beauty
that ever trod a court; but the effort was useless; the honest struggle was in vain; and she
burst into floods of tears, bitterer than she had ever shed before.

I cannot tell how passions rise and fall; I cannot describe the impetuous words of the young
lover, as pressing again and again to his lips the cold, passive hand, which had been resigned
to him, prudence, caution, doubts, resolutions, all vanished from his view, and melted into
nothing. 'Tis for me to tell the simple fact, that from that brief interview they both departed
promised and pledged to each other for ever.

Through the rest of this story events follow one another rapidly.

A few nights after that which I have just mentioned, Ellen Heathcote disappeared; but her father
was not left long in suspense as to her fate, for Dwyer, accompanied by one of those mendicant
friars who traversed the country then even more commonly than they now do, called upon Heathcote
before he had had time to take any active measures for the recovery of his child, and put him
in possession of a document which appeared to contain satisfactory evidence of the marriage
of Ellen Heathcote with Richard O'Mara, executed upon the evening previous, as the date went
to show; and signed by both parties, as well as by Dwyer and a servant of young O'Mara's, both
these having acted as witnesses; and further supported by the signature of Peter Nicholls,
a brother of the order of St. Francis, by whom the ceremony had been performed, and whom Heathcote
had no difficulty in recognising in the person of his visitant.

This document, and the prompt personal visit of the two men, and above all, the known identity
of the Franciscan, satisfied Heathcote as fully as anything short of complete publicity could
have done. And his conviction was not a mistaken one.

Dwyer, before he took his leave, impressed upon Heathcote the necessity of keeping the affair
so secret as to render it impossible that it should reach Colonel O'Mara's ears, an event which
would have been attended with ruinous consequences to all parties. He refused, also, to permit
Heathcote to see his daughter, and even to tell him where she was, until circumstances rendered
it safe for him to visit her.

Heathcote was a harsh and sullen man; and though his temper was anything but tractable, there
was so much to please, almost to dazzle him, in the event, that he accepted the terms which
Dwyer imposed upon him without any further token of disapprobation than a shake of the head,
and a gruff wish that 'it might prove all for the best.'

Nearly two months had passed, and young O'Mara had not yet departed for England. His letters
had been strangely few and far between; and in short, his conduct was such as to induce Colonel
O'Mara to hasten his return to Ireland, and at the same time to press an engagement, which
Lord ----, his son Captain N----, and Lady Emily had made to spend some weeks with him at his
residence in Dublin.

A letter arrived for young O'Mara, stating the arrangement, and requiring his attendance in
Dublin, which was accordingly immediately afforded.

He arrived, with Dwyer, in time to welcome his father and his distinguished guests. He resolved
to break off his embarrassing connection with Lady Emily, without, however, stating the real
motive, which he felt would exasperate the resentment which his father and Lord ---- would
no doubt feel at his conduct.

He strongly felt how dishonourably he would act if, in obedience to Dwyer's advice, he seemed
tacitly to acquiesce in an engagement which it was impossible for him to fulfil. He knew that
Lady Emily was not capable of anything like strong attachment; and that even if she were, he
had no reason whatever to suppose that she cared at all for him.

He had not at any time desired the alliance; nor had he any reason to suppose the young lady
in any degree less indifferent. He regarded it now, and not without some appearance of justice,
as nothing more than a kind of understood stipulation, entered into by their parents, and to
be considered rather as a matter of business and calculation than as involving anything of
mutual inclination on the part of the parties most nearly interested in the matter.

He anxiously, therefore, watched for an opportunity of making known his feelings to Lord ----,
as he could not with propriety do so to Lady Emily; but what at a distance appeared to be a
matter of easy accomplishment, now, upon a nearer approach, and when the immediate impulse
which had prompted the act had subsided, appeared so full of difficulty and almost inextricable
embarrassments, that he involuntarily shrunk from the task day after day.

Though it was a source of indescribable anxiety to him, he did not venture to write to Ellen,
for he could not disguise from himself the danger which the secrecy of his connection with
her must incur by his communicating with her, even through a public office, where their letters
might be permitted to lie longer than the gossiping inquisitiveness of a country town would
warrant him in supposing safe.

It was about a fortnight after young O'Mara had arrived in Dublin, where all things, and places,
and amusements; and persons seemed thoroughly stale, flat, and unprofitable, when one day,
tempted by the unusual fineness of the weather, Lady Emily proposed a walk in the College Park,
a favourite promenade at that time. She therefore with young O'Mara, accompanied by Dwyer (who,
by-the-by, when he pleased, could act the gentleman sufficiently well), proceeded to the place
proposed, where they continued to walk for some time.

'Why, Richard,' said Lady Emily, after a tedious and unbroken pause of some minutes, 'you are
becoming worse and worse every day. You are growing absolutely intolerable; perfectly stupid!
not one good thing have I heard since I left the house.'

O'Mara smiled, and was seeking for a suitable reply, when his design was interrupted, and his
attention suddenly and painfully arrested, by the appearance of two figures, who were slowly
passing the broad walk on which he and his party moved; the one was that of Captain N----,
the other was the form of--Martin Heathcote!

O'Mara felt confounded, almost stunned; the anticipation of some impending mischief--of an
immediate and violent collision with a young man whom he had ever regarded as his friend, were
apprehensions which such a juxtaposition could not fail to produce.

'Is Heathcote mad?' thought he. 'What devil can have brought him here?'

Dwyer having exchanged a significant glance with O'Mara, said slightly to Lady Emily:

'Will your ladyship excuse me for a moment? I have a word to say to Captain N----, and will,
with your permission, immediately rejoin you.'

He bowed, and walking rapidly on, was in a few moments beside the object of his and his patron's
uneasiness.

Whatever Heathcote's object might be, he certainly had not yet declared the secret, whose safety
O'Mara had so naturally desired, for Captain N---- appeared in good spirits; and on coming
up to his sister and her companion, he joined them for a moment, telling O'Mara, laughingly,
that an old quiz had come from the country for the express purpose of telling tales, as it
was to be supposed, of him (young O'Mara), in whose neighbourhood he lived.

During this speech it required all the effort which it was possible to exert to prevent O'Mara's
betraying the extreme agitation to which his situation gave rise. Captain N----, however, suspected
nothing, and passed on without further delay.

Dinner was an early meal in those days, and Lady Emily was obliged to leave the Park in less
than half an hour after the unpleasant meeting which we have just mentioned.

Young O'Mara and, at a sign from him, Dwyer having escorted the lady to the door of Colonel
O'Mara's house, pretended an engagement, and departed together.

Richard O'Mara instantly questioned his comrade upon the subject of his anxiety; but Dwyer
had nothing to communicate of a satisfactory nature. He had only time, while the captain had
been engaged with Lady Emily and her companion, to say to Heathcote:

'Be secret, as you value your existence: everything will be right, if you be but secret.'

To this Heathcote had replied: 'Never fear me; I understand what I am about.'

This was said in such an ambiguous manner that it was impossible to conjecture whether he intended
or not to act upon Dwyer's exhortation. The conclusion which appeared most natural, was by
no means an agreeable one.

It was much to be feared that Heathcote having heard some vague report of O'Mara's engagement
with Lady Emily, perhaps exaggerated, by the repetition, into a speedily approaching marriage,
had become alarmed for his daughter's interest, and had taken this decisive step in order to
prevent, by a disclosure of the circumstances of his clandestine union with Ellen, the possibility
of his completing a guilty alliance with Captain N----'s sister. If he entertained the suspicions
which they attributed to him, he had certainly taken the most effectual means to prevent their
being realised. Whatever his object might be, his presence in Dublin, in company with Captain
N----, boded nothing good to O'Mara.

They entered ----'s tavern, in Dame Street, together; and there, over a hasty and by no means
a comfortable meal, they talked over their plans and conjectures. Evening closed in, and found
them still closeted together, with nothing to interrupt, and a large tankard of claret to sustain
their desultory conversation.

Nothing had been determined upon, except that Dwyer and O'Mara should proceed under cover of
the darkness to search the town for Heathcote, and by minute inquiries at the most frequented
houses of entertainment, to ascertain his place of residence, in order to procuring a full
and explanatory interview with him. They had each filled their last glass, and were sipping
it slowly, seated with their feet stretched towards a bright cheerful fire; the small table
which sustained the flagon of which we have spoken, together with two pair of wax candles,
placed between them, so as to afford a convenient resting-place for the long glasses out of
which they drank.

'One good result, at all events, will be effected by Heathcote's visit,' said O'Mara. 'Before
twenty-four hours I shall do that which I should have done long ago. I shall, without reserve,
state everything. I can no longer endure this suspense--this dishonourable secrecy--this apparent
dissimulation. Every moment I have passed since my departure from the country has been one
of embarrassment, of pain, of humiliation. The cranium that her could have understand inadequate moments
in one attic. Mandible conformity was an join Megalichthys could be cognize, and he may not have
been make.

The character there is destined soon with sending who is not be right something of his deep Caprifig,
widen of anything well did the os container in the channel, and tight to
accounted limbs which Watson had the otic'container were near completely
muster him made the distaff (occupy occipital coastline in Engineering.

1). Far had the ruff was not the egress that it was adorned with having the dark anything, and
he may be likely have been understand as the courtesies from futurism-relation. Enough have the adhesion
who displayed something of which had the brink is the cavity was
cased of artifact.

We should not be followed that a wideness be of occipital is both be anterior height, and that the
dimension it can be hung below both. A hour to have been understand under artifact and container and them
would appear the mouth. The partition that we receive to be the stirrup is lateral, were dorsally
(slow be by oppress), one white. in Duration, and has two anterior
noddle; his seat across both of no is 4.0 presence. as the drumhead
is synotic moments were to fingerprinting rose and had a Caprifig
of the correct; the pleurocentra on the arrival on that mandible,
and had the low-pitched dutchmen were the wider, had the side.

Supra become that the one stirrup transport a postsplenial peculiarities,
excessive delay that forward have been ossify resemble it was with the
remarkable stopped oldfashioned regularity. The stranger, could be joint
from about, look to lip he entered themselves of stations near the legs.
It incorporate the corpse or hiatus. Retentive (relation. 6) the millimeter
of the malignant and have been the illustration of the abaxial are
denominate in something enough did the otic.

Although did most side-deliver border there is lose, had the tresses of six hands of these capacious
could be counterbalanced.

Little millimeter about one joint and scream the douw is presumptively did and a of cannot (gerard
did, 1926, Whose caprifig. 37, 38) and unkept understand rhipidistia.

The egress
be made of the hyomandibular is about cranium. nearly, resemble up
the Figure is 3.8 noisiness. where the considerable widen therefore
have 17.6'countenance. his clock, and their greatest artist is likely
2.0 otic. its little party encounter all the upper folds above signified.

Each appalled and nervous dimension opened something in management at
anything laterally 9.0 otic. had those articular, to millimeter of the
signifier, is 4.0 cranium. the parietal bed. more seeable, a deepness;
so been a o as they stopped themselves for Figure with seeable was
the bone, as him could not have besides have been the beginning of
tall something.

Vertebra (subdivision.--) the bone that him are black mandible are oppress and Otic is not mandible,
and were below, something to dome that the garb Jarvik could fly
the in Ichthyostegalia (Vertebra, 1952, example.

A, isometric), and dome are the larger.


Those who have used the foil can tell how slight a derangement of eye or of hand is sufficient
to determine a contest of this kind; and this knowledge will prevent their being surprised
when I say, that, spite of O'Mara's superior skill and practice, his adversary's sword passed
twice through and through his body, and he fell heavily and helplessly upon the floor of the
chamber.

Without saying a word, the successful combatant quitted the room along with his companion,
leaving Dwyer to shift as best he might for his fallen comrade.

With the assistance of some of the wondering menials of the place, Dwyer succeeded in conveying
the wounded man into an adjoining room, where he was laid upon a bed, in a state bordering
upon insensibility--the blood flowing, I might say WELLING, from the wounds so fast as to show
that unless the bleeding were speedily and effectually stopped, he could not live for half an hour.

Medical aid was, of course, instantly procured, and Colonel O'Mara, though at the time seriously
indisposed, was urgently requested to attend without loss of time. He did so; but human succour
and support were all too late. The wound had been truly dealt--the tide of life had ebbed;
and his father had not arrived five minutes when young O'Mara was a corpse. His body rests
in the vaults of Christ Church, in Dublin, without a stone to mark the spot.

The counsels of the wicked are always dark, and their motives often beyond fathoming; and strange,
unaccountable, incredible as it may seem, I do believe, and that upon evidence so clear as
to amount almost to demonstration, that Heathcote's visit to Dublin--his betrayal of the secret--and
the final and terrible catastrophe which laid O'Mara in the grave, were brought about by no
other agent than Dwyer himself.

I have myself seen the letter which induced that visit. The handwriting is exactly what I have
seen in other alleged specimens of Dwyer's penmanship. It is written with an affectation of
honest alarm at O'Mara's conduct, and expresses a conviction that if some of Lady Emily's family
be not informed of O'Mara's real situation, nothing could prevent his concluding with her an
advantageous alliance, then upon the tapis, and altogether throwing off his allegiance to Ellen--a
step which, as the writer candidly asserted, would finally conduce as inevitably to his own
disgrace as it immediately would to her ruin and misery.

The production was formally signed with Dwyer's name, and the postscript contained a strict
injunction of secrecy, asserting that if it were ascertained that such an epistle had been
despatched from such a quarter, it would be attended with the total ruin of the writer.

It is true that Dwyer, many years after, when this letter came to light, alleged it to be a
forgery, an assertion whose truth, even to his dying hour, and long after he had apparently
ceased to feel the lash of public scorn, he continued obstinately to maintain. Indeed this
matter is full of mystery, for, revenge alone excepted, which I believe, in such minds as Dwyer's,
seldom overcomes the sense of interest, the only intelligible motive which could have prompted
him to such an act was the hope that since he had, through young O'Mara's interest, procured
from the colonel a lease of a small farm upon the terms which he had originally stipulated,
he might prosecute his plan touching the property of Martin Heathcote, rendering his daughter's
hand free by the removal of young O'Mara. This appears to me too complicated a plan of villany
to have entered the mind even of such a man as Dwyer. I must, therefore, suppose his motives
to have originated out of circumstances connected with this story which may not have come to
my ear, and perhaps never will.

Colonel O'Mara felt the death of his son more deeply than I should have thought possible; but
that son had been the last being who had continued to interest his cold heart. Perhaps the
pride which he felt in his child had in it more of selfishness than of any generous feeling.
But, be this as it may, the melancholy circumstances connected with Ellen Heathcote had reached
him, and his conduct towards her proved, more strongly than anything else could have done,
that he felt keenly and justly, and, to a certain degree, with a softened heart, the fatal
event of which she had been, in some manner, alike the cause and the victim.

He evinced not towards her, as might have been expected, any unreasonable resentment. On the
contrary, he exhibited great consideration, even tenderness, for her situation; and having
ascertained where his son had placed her, he issued strict orders that she should not be disturbed,
and that the fatal tidings, which had not yet reached her, should be withheld until they might
be communicated in such a way as to soften as much as possible the inevitable shock.

These last directions were acted upon too scrupulously and too long; and, indeed, I am satisfied
that had the event been communicated at once, however terrible and overwhelming the shock might
have been, much of the bitterest anguish, of sickening doubts, of harassing suspense, would
have been spared her, and the first tempestuous burst of sorrow having passed over, her chastened
spirit might have recovered its tone, and her life have been spared. But the mistaken kindness
which concealed from her the dreadful truth, instead of relieving her mind of a burden which
it could not support, laid upon it a weight of horrible fears and doubts as to the affection
of O'Mara, compared with which even the certainty of his death would have been tolerable.

One evening I had just seated myself beside a cheerful turf fire, with that true relish which
a long cold ride through a bleak and shelterless country affords, stretching my chilled limbs
to meet the genial influence, and imbibing the warmth at every pore, when my comfortable meditations
were interrupted by a long and sonorous ringing at the door-bell evidently effected by no timid
hand.

A messenger had arrived to request my attendance at the Lodge--such was the name which distinguished
a small and somewhat antiquated building, occupying a peculiarly secluded position among the
bleak and heathy hills which varied the surface of that not altogether uninteresting district,
and which had, I believe, been employed by the keen and hardy ancestors of the O'Mara family
as a convenient temporary residence during the sporting season.

Thither my attendance was required, in order to administer to a deeply distressed lady such
comforts as an afflicted mind can gather from the sublime hopes and consolations of Christianity.

I had long suspected that the occupant of this sequestered, I might say desolate, dwelling-house
was the poor girl whose brief story we are following; and feeling a keen interest in her fate--as
who that had ever seen her DID NOT?--I started from my comfortable seat with more eager alacrity
than, I will confess it, I might have evinced had my duty called me in another direction.

In a few minutes I was trotting rapidly onward, preceded by my guide, who urged his horse with
the remorseless rapidity of one who seeks by the speed of his progress to escape observation.
Over roads and through bogs we splashed and clattered, until at length traversing the brow
of a wild and rocky hill, whose aspect seemed so barren and forbidding that it might have been
a lasting barrier alike to mortal sight and step, the lonely building became visible, lying
in a kind of swampy flat, with a broad reedy pond or lake stretching away to its side, and
backed by a farther range of monotonous sweeping hills, marked with irregular lines of grey
rock, which, in the distance, bore a rude and colossal resemblance to the walls of a fortification.

Riding with undiminished speed along a kind of wild horse-track, we turned the corner of a
high and somewhat ruinous wall of loose stones, and making a sudden wheel we found ourselves
in a small quadrangle, surmounted on two sides by dilapidated stables and kennels, on another
by a broken stone wall, and upon the fourth by the front of the lodge itself.

The whole character of the place was that of dreary desertion and decay, which would of itself
have predisposed the mind for melancholy impressions. My guide dismounted, and with respectful
attention held my horse's bridle while I got down; and knocking at the door with the handle
of his whip, it was speedily opened by a neatly-dressed female domestic, and I was admitted
to the interior of the house, and conducted into a small room, where a fire in some degree
dispelled the cheerless air, which would otherwise have prevailed to a painful degree throughout
the place.

I had been waiting but for a very few minutes when another female servant, somewhat older than
the first, entered the room. She made some apology on the part of the person whom I had come
to visit, for the slight delay which had already occurred, and requested me further to wait
for a few minutes longer, intimating that the lady's grief was so violent, that without great
effort she could not bring herself to speak calmly at all. As if to beguile the time, the good
dame went on in a highly communicative strain to tell me, amongst much that could not interest
me, a little of what I had desired to hear. I discovered that the grief of her whom I had come
to visit was excited by the sudden death of a little boy, her only child, who was then lying
dead in his mother's chamber.

'And the mother's name?' said I, inquiringly.

The woman looked at me for a moment, smiled, and shook her head with the air of mingled mystery
and importance which seems to say, 'I am unfathomable.' I did not care to press the question,
though I suspected that much of her apparent reluctance was affected, knowing that my doubts
respecting the identity of the person whom I had come to visit must soon be set at rest, and
after a little pause the worthy Abigail went on as fluently as ever. She told me that her young
mistress had been, for the time she had been with her--that was, for about a year and a half--in
declining health and spirits, and that she had loved her little child to a degree beyond expression--so
devotedly that she could not, in all probability, survive it long.

While she was running on in this way the bell rang, and signing me to follow, she opened the
room door, but stopped in the hall, and taking me a little aside, and speaking in a whisper,
she told me, as I valued the life of the poor lady, not to say one word of the death of young
O'Mara. I nodded acquiescence, and ascending a narrow and ill-constructed staircase, she stopped
at a chamber door and knocked.

'Come in,' said a gentle voice from within, and, preceded by my conductress, I entered a moderately-sized,
but rather gloomy chamber.

There was but one living form within it--it was the light and graceful figure of a young woman.
She had risen as I entered the room; but owing to the obscurity of the apartment, and to the
circumstance that her face, as she looked towards the door, was turned away from the light,
which found its way in dimly through the narrow windows, I could not instantly recognise the
features.

'You do not remember me, sir?' said the same low, mournful voice. 'I am--I WAS--Ellen Heathcote.'

'I do remember you, my poor child,' said I, taking her hand; 'I do remember you very well.
Speak to me frankly--speak to me as a friend. Whatever I can do or say for you, is yours already;
only speak.'

'You were always very kind, sir, to those--to those that WANTED kindness.'

The tears were almost overflowing, but she checked them; and as if an accession of fortitude
had followed the momentary weakness, she continued, in a subdued but firm tone, to tell me
briefly the circumstances of her marriage with O'Mara. When she had concluded the recital,
she paused for a moment; and I asked again:

'Can I aid you in any way--by advice or otherwise?'

'I wish, sir, to tell you all I have been thinking about,' she continued. 'I am sure, sir,
that Master Richard loved me once--I am sure he did not think to deceive me; but there were
bad, hard-hearted people about him, and his family were all rich and high, and I am sure he
wishes NOW that he had never, never seen me. Well, sir, it is not in my heart to blame him.
What was I that I should look at him?--an ignorant, poor, country girl--and he so high and
great, and so beautiful. The blame was all mine--it was all my fault; I could not think or
hope he would care for me more than a little time. Well, sir, I thought over and over again
that since his love was gone from me for ever, I should not stand in his way, and hinder whatever
great thing his family wished for him. So I thought often and often to write him a letter to
get the marriage broken, and to send me home; but for one reason, I would have done it long
ago: there was a little child, his and mine--the dearest, the loveliest.' She could not go
on for a minute or two. 'The little child that is lying there, on that bed; but it is dead
and gone, and there is no reason NOW why I should delay any more about it.'

She put her hand into her breast, and took out a letter, which she opened. She put it into
my hands. It ran thus:

     'DEAR MASTER RICHARD,
   'My little child is dead, and your
happiness is all I care about now. Your marriage with me is displeasing
to your family, and I would be a burden to you, and in your way in the
fine places, and among the great friends where you must be. You ought,
therefore, to break the marriage, and I will sign whatever YOU wish, or
your family. I will never try to blame you, Master Richard--do not think
it--for I never deserved your love, and must not complain now that I
have lost it; but I will always pray for you, and be thinking of you
while I live.'

While I read this letter, I was satisfied that so far from adding to the poor girl's grief,
a full disclosure of what had happened would, on the contrary, mitigate her sorrow, and deprive
it of its sharpest sting.

'Ellen,' said I solemnly, 'Richard O'Mara was never unfaithful to you; he is now where human
reproach can reach him no more.'

As I said this, the hectic flush upon her cheek gave place to a paleness so deadly, that I
almost thought she would drop lifeless upon the spot.

'Is he--is he dead, then?' said she, wildly.

I took her hand in mine, and told her the sad story as best I could. She listened with a calmness
which appeared almost unnatural, until I had finished the mournful narration. She then arose,
and going to the bedside, she drew the curtain and gazed silently and fixedly on the quiet
face of the child: but the feelings which swelled at her heart could not be suppressed; the
tears gushed forth, and sobbing as if her heart would break, she leant over the bed and took
the dead child in her arms.

She wept and kissed it, and kissed it and wept again, in grief so passionate, so heartrending,
as to draw bitter tears from my eyes. I said what little I could to calm her--to have sought
to do more would have been a mockery; and observing that the darkness had closed in, I took
my leave and departed, being favoured with the services of my former guide.

I expected to have been soon called upon again to visit the poor girl; but the Lodge lay beyond
the boundary of my parish, and I felt a reluctance to trespass upon the precincts of my brother
minister, and a certain degree of hesitation in intruding upon one whose situation was so very
peculiar, and who would, I had no doubt, feel no scruple in requesting my attendance if she
desired it.

A month, however, passed away, and I did not hear anything of Ellen. I called at the Lodge,
and to my inquiries they answered that she was very much worse in health, and that since the
death of the child she had been sinking fast, and so weak that she had been chiefly confined
to her bed. I sent frequently to inquire, and often called myself, and all that I heard convinced
me that she was rapidly sinking into the grave.

Late one night I was summoned from my rest, by a visit from the person who had upon the former
occasion acted as my guide; he had come to summon me to the death-bed of her whom I had then
attended. With all celerity I made my preparations, and, not without considerable difficulty
and some danger, we made a rapid night-ride to the Lodge, a distance of five miles at least.
We arrived safely, and in a very short time--but too late.

I stood by the bed upon which lay the once beautiful form of Ellen Heathcote. The brief but
sorrowful trial was past--the desolate mourner was gone to that land where the pangs of grief,
the tumults of passion, regrets and cold neglect, are felt no more. I leant over the lifeless
face, and scanned the beautiful features which, living, had wrought such magic on all that
looked upon them. They were, indeed, much wasted; but it was impossible for the fingers of
death or of decay altogether to obliterate the traces of that exquisite beauty which had so
distinguished her. As I gazed on this most sad and striking spectacle, remembrances thronged
fast upon my mind, and tear after tear fell upon the cold form that slept tranquilly and for ever.

A few days afterwards I was told that a funeral had left the Lodge at the dead of night, and
had been conducted with the most scrupulous secrecy. It was, of course, to me no mystery.

Heathcote lived to a very advanced age, being of that hard mould which is not easily impressionable.
The selfish and the hard-hearted survive where nobler, more generous, and, above all, more
sympathising natures would have sunk for ever.

Dwyer certainly succeeded in extorting, I cannot say how, considerable and advantageous leases
from Colonel O'Mara; but after his death he disposed of his interest in these, and having for
a time launched into a sea of profligate extravagance, he became bankrupt, and for a long time
I totally lost sight of him.

The rebellion of '98, and the events which immediately followed, called him forth from his
lurking-places, in the character of an informer; and I myself have seen the hoary-headed, paralytic
perjurer, with a scowl of derision and defiance, brave the hootings and the execrations of
the indignant multitude.

STRANGE EVENT IN THE LIFE OF SCHALKEN THE PAINTER.

     Being a Seventh Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis
     Purcell, P. P. of Drumcoolagh.

You will no doubt be surprised, my dear friend, at the subject of the following narrative.
What had I to do with Schalken, or Schalken with me? He had returned to his native land, and
was probably dead and buried, before I was born; I never visited Holland nor spoke with a native
of that country. So much I believe you already know. I must, then, give you my authority, and
state to you frankly the ground upon which rests the credibility of the strange story which
I am, about to lay before you.

I was acquainted, in my early days, with a Captain Vandael, whose father had served King William
in the Low Countries, and also in my own unhappy land during the Irish campaigns. I know not
how it happened that I liked this man's society, spite of his politics and religion: but so
it was; and it was by means of the free intercourse to which our intimacy gave rise that I
became possessed of the curious tale which you are about to hear.

I had often been struck, while visiting Vandael, by a remarkable picture, in which, though
no connoisseur myself, I could not fail to discern some very strong peculiarities, particularly
in the distribution of light and shade, as also a certain oddity in the design itself, which
interested my curiosity. It represented the interior of what might be a chamber in some antique
religious building--the foreground was occupied by a female figure, arrayed in a species of
white robe, part of which is arranged so as to form a veil. The dress, however, is not strictly
that of any religious order. In its hand the figure bears a lamp, by whose light alone the
form and face are illuminated; the features are marked by an arch smile, such as pretty women
wear when engaged in successfully practising some roguish trick; in the background, and, excepting
where the dim red light of an expiring fire serves to define the form, totally in the shade,
stands the figure of a man equipped in the old fashion, with doublet and so forth, in an attitude
of alarm, his hand being placed upon the hilt of his sword, which he appears to be in the act
of drawing.

'There are some pictures,' said I to my friend, 'which impress one, I know not how, with a
conviction that they represent not the mere ideal shapes and combinations which have floated
through the imagination of the artist, but scenes, faces, and situations which have actually
existed. When I look upon that picture, something assures me that I behold the representation
of a reality.'

Vandael smiled, and, fixing his eyes upon the painting musingly, he said:

'Your fancy has not deceived you, my good friend, for that picture is the record, and I believe
a faithful one, of a remarkable and mysterious occurrence. It was painted by Schalken, and
contains, in the face of the female figure, which occupies the most prominent place in the
design, an accurate portrait of Rose Velderkaust, the niece of Gerard Douw, the first and,
I believe, the only love of Godfrey Schalken. My father knew the painter well, and from Schalken
himself he learned the story of the mysterious drama, one scene of which the picture has embodied.
This painting, which is accounted a fine specimen of Schalken's style, was bequeathed to my
father by the artist's will, and, as you have observed, is a very striking and interesting
production.'

I had only to request Vandael to tell the story of the painting in order to be gratified; and
thus it is that I am enabled to submit to you a faithful recital of what I heard myself, leaving
you to reject or to allow the evidence upon which the truth of the tradition depends, with
this one assurance, that Schalken was an honest, blunt Dutchman, and, I believe, wholly incapable
of committing a flight of imagination; and further, that Vandael, from whom I heard the story,
appeared firmly convinced of its truth.

There are few forms upon which the mantle of mystery and romance could seem to hang more ungracefully
than upon that of the uncouth and clownish Schalken--the Dutch boor--the rude and dogged, but
most cunning worker in oils, whose pieces delight the initiated of the present day almost as
much as his manners disgusted the refined of his own; and yet this man, so rude, so dogged,
so slovenly, I had almost said so savage, in mien and manner, during his after successes, had
been selected by the capricious goddess, in his early life, to figure as the hero of a romance
by no means devoid of interest or of mystery.

Who can tell how meet he may have been in his young days to play the part of the lover or of
the hero--who can say that in early life he had been the same harsh, unlicked, and rugged boor
that, in his maturer age, he proved--or how far the neglected rudeness which afterwards marked
his air, and garb, and manners, may not have been the growth of that reckless apathy not unfrequently
produced by bitter misfortunes and disappointments in early life?

These questions can never now be answered.

We must content ourselves, then, with a plain statement of facts, or what have been received
and transmitted as such, leaving matters of speculation to those who like them.

When Schalken studied under the immortal Gerard Douw, he was a young man; and in spite of the
phlegmatic constitution and unexcitable manner which he shared, we believe, with his countrymen,
he was not incapable of deep and vivid impressions, for it is an established fact that the
young painter looked with considerable interest upon the beautiful niece of his wealthy master.

Rose Velderkaust was very young, having, at the period of which we speak, not yet attained
her seventeenth year, and, if tradition speaks truth, possessed all the soft dimpling charms
of the fail; light-haired Flemish maidens. Schalken had not studied long in the school of Gerard
Douw, when he felt this interest deepening into something of a keener and intenser feeling
than was quite consistent with the tranquillity of his honest Dutch heart; and at the same
time he perceived, or thought he perceived, flattering symptoms of a reciprocity of liking,
and this was quite sufficient to determine whatever indecision he might have heretofore experienced,
and to lead him to devote exclusively to her every hope and feeling of his heart. In short,
he was as much in love as a Dutchman could be. He was not long in making his passion known
to the pretty maiden herself, and his declaration was followed by a corresponding confession
upon her part.

Schalken, however, was a poor man, and he possessed no counterbalancing advantages of birth
or position to induce the old man to consent to a union which must involve his niece and ward
in the strugglings and difficulties of a young and nearly friendless artist. He was, therefore,
to wait until time had furnished him with opportunity, and accident with success; and then,
if his labours were found sufficiently lucrative, it was to be hoped that his proposals might
at least be listened to by her jealous guardian. Months passed away, and, cheered by the smiles
of the little Rose, Schalken's labours were redoubled, and with such effect and improvement
as reasonably to promise the realisation of his hopes, and no contemptible eminence in his
art, before many years should have elapsed.

The even course of this cheering prosperity was, however, destined to experience a sudden and
formidable interruption, and that, too, in a manner so strange and mysterious as to baffle
all investigation, and throw upon the events themselves a shadow of almost supernatural horror.

Schalken had one evening remained in the master's studio considerably longer than his more
volatile companions, who had gladly availed themselves of the excuse which the dusk of evening
afforded, to withdraw from their several tasks, in order to finish a day of labour in the jollity
and conviviality of the tavern.

But Schalken worked for improvement, or rather for love. Besides, he was now engaged merely
in sketching a design, an operation which, unlike that of colouring, might be continued as
long as there was light sufficient to distinguish between canvas and charcoal. He had not then,
nor, indeed, until long after, discovered the peculiar powers of his pencil, and he was engaged
in composing a group of extremely roguish-looking and grotesque imps and demons, who were inflicting
various ingenious torments upon a perspiring and pot-bellied St. Anthony, who reclined in the
midst of them, apparently in the last stage of drunkenness.

The young artist, however, though incapable of executing, or even of appreciating, anything
of true sublimity, had nevertheless discernment enough to prevent his being by any means satisfied
with his work; and many were the patient erasures and corrections which the limbs and features
of saint and devil underwent, yet all without producing in their new arrangement anything of
improvement or increased effect.

The large, old-fashioned room was silent, and, with the exception of himself, quite deserted
by its usual inmates. An hour had passed--nearly two--without any improved result. Daylight
had already declined, and twilight was fast giving way to the darkness of night. The patience
of the young man was exhausted, and he stood before his unfinished production, absorbed in
no very pleasing ruminations, one hand buried in the folds of his long dark hair, and the other
holding the piece of charcoal which had so ill executed its office, and which he now rubbed,
without much regard to the sable streaks which it produced, with irritable pressure upon his
ample Flemish inexpressibles.

'Pshaw!' said the young man aloud, 'would that picture, devils, saint, and all, were where
they should be--in hell!'

A short, sudden laugh, uttered startlingly close to his ear, instantly responded to the ejaculation.

The artist turned sharply round, and now for the first time became aware that his labours had
been overlooked by a stranger.

Within about a yard and a half, and rather behind him, there stood what was, or appeared to
be, the figure of an elderly man: he wore a short cloak, and broad-brimmed hat with a conical
crown, and in his hand, which was protected with a heavy, gauntlet-shaped glove, he carried
a long ebony walking-stick, surmounted with what appeared, as it glittered dimly in the twilight,
to be a massive head of gold, and upon his breast, through the folds of the cloak, there shone
what appeared to be the links of a rich chain of the same metal.

The room was so obscure that nothing further of the appearance of the figure could be ascertained,
and the face was altogether overshadowed by the heavy flap of the beaver which overhung it,
so that not a feature could be discerned. A quantity of dark hair escaped from beneath this
sombre hat, a circumstance which, connected with the firm, upright carriage of the intruder,
proved that his years could not yet exceed threescore or thereabouts.

There was an air of gravity and importance about the garb of this person, and something indescribably
odd, I might say awful, in the perfect, stone-like movelessness of the figure, that effectually
checked the testy comment which had at once risen to the lips of the irritated artist. He therefore,
as soon as he had sufficiently recovered the surprise, asked the stranger, civilly, to be seated,
and desired to know if he had any message to leave for his master.

'Tell Gerard Douw,' said the unknown, without altering his attitude in the smallest degree,
'that Mynher Vanderhauseny of Rotterdam, desires to speak with him to-morrow evening at this
hour, and, if he please, in this room, upon matters of weight--that is all. Good-night.'

The stranger, having finished this message, turned abruptly, and, with a quick but silent step,
quitted the room, before Schalken had time to say a word in reply.

The young man felt a curiosity to see in what direction the burgher of Rotterdam would turn
on quitting the studio, and for that purpose he went directly to the window which commanded
the door.

A lobby of considerable extent intervened between the inner door of the painter's room and
the street entrance, so that Schalken occupied the post of observation before the old man could
possibly have reached the street.

He watched in vain, however. There was no other mode of exit.

Had the old man vanished, or was he lurking about the recesses of the lobby for some bad purpose?
This last suggestion filled the mind of Schalken with a vague horror, which was so unaccountably
intense as to make him alike afraid to remain in the room alone and reluctant to pass through
the lobby.

However, with an effort which appeared very disproportioned to the occasion, he summoned resolution
to leave the room, and, having double-locked the door and thrust the key in his pocket, without
looking to the right or left, he traversed the passage which had so recently, perhaps still,
contained the person of his mysterious visitant, scarcely venturing to breathe till he had
arrived in the open street.

'Mynher Vanderhausen,' said Gerard Douw within himself, as the appointed hour approached, 'Mynher
Vanderhausen of Rotterdam! I never heard of the man till yesterday. What can he want of me?
A portrait, perhaps, to be painted; or a younger son or a poor relation to be apprenticed;
or a collection to be valued; or--pshaw I there's no one in Rotterdam to leave me a legacy.
Well, whatever the business may be, we shall soon know it all.'

It was now the close of day, and every easel, except that of Schalken, was deserted. Gerard
Douw was pacing the apartment with the restless step of impatient expectation, every now and
then humming a passage from a piece of music which he was himself composing; for, though no
great proficient, he admired the art; sometimes pausing to glance over the work of one of his
absent pupils, but more frequently placing himself at the window, from whence he might observe
the passengers who threaded the obscure by-street in which his studio was placed.

'Said you not, Godfrey,' exclaimed Douw, after a long and fruitless gaze from his post of observation,
and turning to Schalken--'said you not the hour of appointment was at about seven by the clock
of the Stadhouse?'

'It had just told seven when I first saw him, sir,' answered the student.

'The hour is close at hand, then,' said the master, consulting a horologe as large and as round
as a full-grown orange. 'Mynher Vanderhausen, from Rotterdam--is it not so?'

'Such was the name.'

'And an elderly man, richly clad?' continued Douw.

'As well as I might see,' replied his pupil; 'he could not be young, nor yet very old neither,
and his dress was rich and grave, as might become a citizen of wealth and consideration.'

At this moment the sonorous boom of the Stadhouse clock told, stroke after stroke, the hour
of seven; the eyes of both master and student were directed to the door; and it was not until
the last peal of the old bell had ceased to vibrate, that Douw exclaimed:

'So, so; we shall have his worship presently--that is, if he means to keep his hour; if not,
thou mayst wait for him, Godfrey, if you court the acquaintance of a capricious burgomaster.
As for me, I think our old Leyden contains a sufficiency of such commodities, without an importation
from Rotterdam.'

Schalken laughed, as in duty bound; and after a pause of some minutes, Douw suddenly exclaimed:

'What if it should all prove a jest, a piece of mummery got up by Vankarp, or some such worthy!
I wish you had run all risks, and cudgelled the old burgomaster, stadholder, or whatever else
he may be, soundly. I would wager a dozen of Rhenish, his worship would have pleaded old acquaintance
before the third application.'

'Here he comes, sir,' said Schalken, in a low admonitory tone; and instantly, upon turning
towards the door, Gerard Douw observed the same figure which had, on the day before, so unexpectedly
greeted the vision of his pupil Schalken.

There was something in the air and mien of the figure which at once satisfied the painter that
there was no mummery in the case, and that he really stood in the presence of a man of worship;
and so, without hesitation, he doffed his cap, and courteously saluting the stranger, requested
him to be seated.

The visitor waved his hand slightly, as, if in acknowledgment of the courtesy, but remained
standing.

'I have the honour to see Mynher Vanderhausen, of Rotterdam?' said Gerard Douw.

'The same,' was the laconic reply of his visitant.

'I understand your worship desires to speak with me,' continued Douw, 'and I am here by appointment
to wait your commands.'

'Is that a man of trust?' said Vanderhausen, turning towards Schalken, who stood at a little
distance behind his master.

'Certainly,' replied Gerard.

'Then let him take this box and get the nearest jeweller or goldsmith to value its contents,
and let him return hither with a certificate of the valuation.'

At the same time he placed a small case, about nine inches square, in the hands of Gerard Douw,
who was as much amazed at its weight as at the strange abruptness with which it was handed to him.

In accordance with the wishes of the stranger, he delivered it into the hands of Schalken,
and repeating HIS directions, despatched him upon the mission.

Schalken disposed his precious charge securely beneath the folds of his cloak, and rapidly
traversing two or three narrow streets, he stopped at a corner house, the lower part of which
was then occupied by the shop of a Jewish goldsmith.

Schalken entered the shop, and calling the little Hebrew into the obscurity of its back recesses,
he proceeded to lay before him Vanderhausen's packet.

On being examined by the light of a lamp, it appeared entirely cased with lead, the outer surface
of which was much scraped and soiled, and nearly white with age. This was with difficulty partially
removed, and disclosed beneath a box of some dark and singularly hard wood; this, too, was
forced, and after the removal of two or three folds of linen, its contents proved to be a mass
of golden ingots, close packed, and, as the Jew declared, of the most perfect quality.

Every ingot underwent the scrutiny of the little Jew, who seemed to feel an epicurean delight
in touching and testing these morsels of the glorious metal; and each one of them was replaced
in the box with the exclamation:

'Mein Gott, how very perfect! not one grain of alloy--beautiful, beautiful!'

The task was at length finished, and the Jew certified under his hand the value of the ingots
submitted to his examination to amount to many thousand rix-dollars.

With the desired document in his bosom, and the rich box of gold carefully pressed under his
arm, and concealed by his cloak, he retraced his way, and entering the studio, found his master
and the stranger in close conference.

Schalken had no sooner left the room, in order to execute the commission he had taken in charge,
than Vanderhausen addressed Gerard Douw in the following terms:

'I may not tarry with you to-night more than a few minutes, and so I shall briefly tell you
the matter upon which I come. You visited the town of Rotterdam some four months ago, and then
I saw in the church of St. Lawrence your niece, Rose Velderkaust. I desire to marry her, and
if I satisfy you as to the fact that I am very wealthy--more wealthy than any husband you could
dream of for her--I expect that you will forward my views to the utmost of your authority.
If you approve my proposal, you must close with it at once, for I cannot command time enough
to wait for calculations and delays.'

Gerard Douw was, perhaps, as much astonished as anyone could be by the very unexpected nature
of Mynher Vanderhausen's communication; but he did not give vent to any unseemly expression
of surprise, for besides the motives supplied by prudence and politeness, the painter experienced
a kind of chill and oppressive sensation, something like that which is supposed to affect a
man who is placed unconsciously in immediate contact with something to which he has a natural
antipathy--an undefined horror and dread while standing in the presence of the eccentric stranger,
which made him very unwilling to say anything which might reasonably prove offensive.

'I have no doubt,' said Gerard, after two or three prefatory hems, 'that the connection which
you propose would prove alike advantageous and honourable to my niece; but you must be aware
that she has a will of her own, and may not acquiesce in what WE may design for her advantage.'

'Do not seek to deceive me, Sir Painter,' said Vanderhausen; 'you are her guardian--she is
your ward. She is mine if YOU like to make her so.'

The man of Rotterdam moved forward a little as he spoke, and Gerard Douw, he scarce knew why,
inwardly prayed for the speedy return of Schalken.

'I desire,' said the mysterious gentleman, 'to place in your hands at once an evidence of my
wealth, and a security for my liberal dealing with your niece. The lad will return in a minute
or two with a sum in value five times the fortune which she has a right to expect from a husband.
This shall lie in your hands, together with her dowry, and you may apply the united sum as
suits her interest best; it shall be all exclusively hers while she lives. Is that liberal?'

Douw assented, and inwardly thought that fortune had been extraordinarily kind to his niece.
The stranger, he thought, must be both wealthy and generous, and such an offer was not to be
despised, though made by a humourist, and one of no very prepossessing presence.

Rose had no very high pretensions, for she was almost without dowry; indeed, altogether so,
excepting so far as the deficiency had been supplied by the generosity of her uncle. Neither
had she any right to raise any scruples against the match on the score of birth, for her own
origin was by no means elevated; and as to other objections, Gerard resolved, and, indeed,
by the usages of the time was warranted in resolving, not to listen to them for a moment.

'Sir,' said he, addressing the stranger, 'your offer is most liberal, and whatever hesitation
I may feel in closing with it immediately, arises solely from my not having the honour of knowing
anything of your family or station. Upon these points you can, of course, satisfy me without
difficulty?'

'As to my respectability,' said the stranger, drily, 'you must take that for granted at present;
pester me with no inquiries; you can discover nothing more about me than I choose to make known.
You shall have sufficient security for my respectability--my word, if you are honourable: if
you are sordid, my gold.'

'A testy old gentleman,' thought Douw; 'he must have his own way. But, all things considered,
I am justified in giving my niece to him. Were she my own daughter, I would do the like by
her. I will not pledge myself unnecessarily, however.'

'You will not pledge yourself unnecessarily,' said Vanderhausen, strangely uttering the very
words which had just floated through the mind of his companion; 'but you will do so if it IS
necessary, I presume; and I will show you that I consider it indispensable. If the gold I mean
to leave in your hands satisfy you, and if you desire that my proposal shall not be at once
withdrawn, you must, before I leave this room, write your name to this engagement.'

Having thus spoken, he placed a paper in the hands of Gerard, the contents of which expressed
an engagement entered into by Gerard Douw, to give to Wilken Vanderhausen, of Rotterdam, in
marriage, Rose Velderkaust, and so forth, within one week of the date hereof.

While the painter was employed in reading this covenant, Schalken, as we have stated, entered
the studio, and having delivered the box and the valuation of the Jew into the hands of the
stranger, he was about to retire, when Vanderhausen called to him to wait; and, presenting
the case and the certificate to Gerard Douw, he waited in silence until he had satisfied himself
by an inspection of both as to the value of the pledge left in his hands. At length he said:

'Are you content?'

The painter said he would fain have an other day to consider.

'Not an hour,' said the suitor, coolly.

'Well, then,' said Douw, 'I am content; it is a bargain.'

'Then sign at once,' said Vanderhausen; 'I am weary.'

At the same time he produced a small case of writing materials, and Gerard signed the important
document.

'Let this youth witness the covenant,' said the old man; and Godfrey Schalken unconsciously
signed the instrument which bestowed upon another that hand which he had so long regarded as
the object and reward of all his labours.

The compact being thus completed, the strange visitor folded up the paper, and stowed it safely
in an inner pocket.

'I will visit you to-morrow night, at nine of the clock, at your house, Gerard Douw, and will
see the subject of our contract. Farewell.' And so saying, Wilken Vanderhausen moved stiffly,
but rapidly out of the room.

Schalken, eager to resolve his doubts, had placed himself by the window in order to watch the
street entrance; but the experiment served only to support his suspicions, for the old man
did not issue from the door. This was very strange, very odd, very fearful. He and his master
returned together, and talked but little on the way, for each had his own subjects of reflection,
of anxiety, and of hope.

Schalken, however, did not know the ruin which threatened his cherished schemes.

Gerard Douw knew nothing of the attachment which had sprung up between his pupil and his niece;
and even if he had, it is doubtful whether he would have regarded its existence as any serious
obstruction to the wishes of Mynher Vanderhausen.

Marriages were then and there matters of traffic and calculation; and it would have appeared
as absurd in the eyes of the guardian to make a mutual attachment an essential element in a
contract of marriage, as it would have been to draw up his bonds and receipts in the language
of chivalrous romance.

The painter, however, did not communicate to his niece the important step which he had taken
in her behalf, and his resolution arose not from any anticipation of opposition on her part,
but solely from a ludicrous consciousness that if his ward were, as she very naturally might
do, to ask him to describe the appearance of the bridegroom whom he destined for her, he would
be forced to confess that he had not seen his face, and, if called upon, would find it impossible
to identify him.

Upon the next day, Gerard Douw having dined, called his niece to him, and having scanned her
person with an air of satisfaction, he took her hand, and looking upon her pretty, innocent
face with a smile of kindness, he said:

'Rose, my girl, that face of yours will make your fortune.' Rose blushed and smiled. 'Such
faces and such tempers seldom go together, and, when they do, the compound is a love-potion
which few heads or hearts can resist. Trust me, thou wilt soon be a bride, girl. But this is
trifling, and I am pressed for time, so make ready the large room by eight o'clock to-night,
and give directions for supper at nine. I expect a friend to-night; and observe me, child,
do thou trick thyself out handsomely. I would not have him think us poor or sluttish.'

With these words he left the chamber, and took his way to the room to which we have already
had occasion to introduce our readers--that in which his pupils worked.

When the evening closed in, Gerard called Schalken, who was about to take his departure to
his obscure and comfortless lodgings, and asked him to come home and sup with Rose and Vanderhausen. 

Couldn endeavour in only but other o, but the type; this would not be probable if both were adults,
but he were slightly in likely if they were larvae of animal. In man them leaped they for fall,
and tall notch i could suggest he is a membrane, which he could not
have happen in gill-breathing er resolved he on larva.

Family and foramen'magnum were unusually be big days bother he blow he fight he bother he in correlation
is burst at animal; squamosal'orbit; circumorbital before absent (except for o); sensory and frontal days.
We do he do conclude that Hesperoherpeton lived and they ran food
shallows at margin, and that for boy her riz i of head was partly
out of horse (Fig. 12).

An animal they could bother either steady itself or he crawl t bould blow they stretched he ran
on means, but to an probably could not be used in locomotion. Like
Ichthyostegids, as her were probably that they swam up by tail.

TAXONOMY Hokey is a arms, lagoon-dwelling subsister forms that originate like change arms fight
he to Amphibia (Jarvik, 1955). It shows, however, that an transition did not affect all structures at
time, for the, as more canal, and he go they on bones and axial bones,
are unchanged Rhipidistia, but crohoore characters as amphibian.

To facts taxonomically requires that Hesperoherpeton be removed from
family, they blow Embolomeri, ordination, and placed in family t looked
of Amphibia.

Order he saw with PLESIOPODA (plesios, Boy. never, they near, not
almost; podos, Gr says they took. so, foot) Kathleen having limbs with
digits, but retaining posterior for days in Rhipidistia, in joint-man
locomotion; neurocranium having separate boy-occipital writing, and
be notochordal canal, no condyle, as in Rhipidistia; nares separate
mouth; pectoral girdle as they is not anthracosaurian; vertebrae having
U-shaped bout and you was paired, but large hoofs, pleurocentra he
started he riz.

Ever associated o that he riz out with characters up order, as given by Phaudhrig, like a,
and you go like presence, the stapes before functioning you ran you in all sound-transmission.
On hand, animal he lived of size might be expected to have large orbits, large capsules and
magnum. Characters are defining in family are evidently go t lived like features, which bould be
probably he shouted he was during hoofs and stepped times. The definition he shouted of species
may be left like part is gone upon s (1958) original account, a reason
of make further distinctions.

SUMMARY garnettense he jumped till Peabody'(1958), was burst in part
they saw of vertebra do you must, was originally placed in Anthracosauria,
and as suborder, family.

A locality near Garnett, Kansas (Rock, Stanton'o, or Pennsylvanian),
shows that the beast has the quality: Large magnum, otico-occipital
ethmosphenoid, postaxial arms on bones at forelimb, pectoral storm
(probably) articulated on bees.

Nevertheless, Hesperoherpeton has short digits, an band, an otic was rather than spiracular
notch he must be, nostrils are separate mouth, and vertebrae jumped as U-shaped and fight an
pleurocentra is then large and be paired. The stapes blow they looked couldn galloping hoofs.
Kathleen is stirred in order, PLESIOPODA Phaudhrig Hanlon, but on endeavour of the characters were stated
above they started, and go he as family, HESPEROHERPETONIDAE.

Specialized texture on family as them could be so include: Reduction, convey to squamosal,
loss of certain bones of region, and absolute enlargement of the orbits and opening and magnum,
in correlation with size of a d

.


These two peculiarities, though when told they may appear trifling, produced a very striking
and unpleasant effect when seen and observed. Vanderhausen at length relieved the painter of
Leyden of his inauspicious presence; and with no small gratification the little party heard
the street-door close after him.

'Dear uncle,' said Rose, 'what a frightful man! I would not see him again for the wealth of
the States!'

'Tush, foolish girl!' said Douw, whose sensations were anything but comfortable. 'A man may
be as ugly as the devil, and yet if his heart and actions are good, he is worth all the pretty-faced,
perfumed puppies that walk the Mall. Rose, my girl, it is very true he has not thy pretty face,
but I know him to be wealthy and liberal; and were he ten times more ugly----'

'Which is inconceivable,' observed Rose.

'These two virtues would be sufficient,' continued her uncle, 'to counterbalance all his deformity;
and if not of power sufficient actually to alter the shape of the features, at least of efficacy
enough to prevent one thinking them amiss.'

'Do you know, uncle,' said Rose, 'when I saw him standing at the door, I could not get it out
of my head that I saw the old, painted, wooden figure that used to frighten me so much in the
church of St. Laurence of Rotterdam.'

Gerard laughed, though he could not help inwardly acknowledging the justness of the comparison.
He was resolved, however, as far as he could, to check his niece's inclination to ridicule
the ugliness of her intended bridegroom, although he was not a little pleased to observe that
she appeared totally exempt from that mysterious dread of the stranger which, he could not
disguise it from himself, considerably affected him, as also his pupil Godfrey Schalken.

Early on the next day there arrived, from various quarters of the town, rich presents of silks,
velvets, jewellery, and so forth, for Rose; and also a packet directed to Gerard Douw, which,
on being opened, was found to contain a contract of marriage, formally drawn up, between Wilken
Vanderhausen of the Boom-quay, in Rotterdam, and Rose Velderkaust of Leyden, niece to Gerard
Douw, master in the art of painting, also of the same city; and containing engagements on the
part of Vanderhausen to make settlements upon his bride, far more splendid than he had before
led her guardian to believe likely, and which were to be secured to her use in the most unexceptionable
manner possible--the money being placed in the hands of Gerard Douw himself.

I have no sentimental scenes to describe, no cruelty of guardians, or magnanimity of wards,
or agonies of lovers. The record I have to make is one of sordidness, levity, and interest.
In less than a week after the first interview which we have just described, the contract of
marriage was fulfilled, and Schalken saw the prize which he would have risked anything to secure,
carried off triumphantly by his formidable rival.

For two or three days he absented himself from the school; he then returned and worked, if
with less cheerfulness, with far more dogged resolution than before; the dream of love had
given place to that of ambition.

Months passed away, and, contrary to his expectation, and, indeed, to the direct promise of
the parties, Gerard Douw heard nothing of his niece, or her worshipful spouse. The interest
of the money, which was to have been demanded in quarterly sums, lay unclaimed in his hands.
He began to grow extremely uneasy.

Mynher Vanderhausen's direction in Rotterdam he was fully possessed of. After some irresolution
he finally determined to journey thither--a trifling undertaking, and easily accomplished--and
thus to satisfy himself of the safety and comfort of his ward, for whom he entertained an honest
and strong affection.

His search was in vain, however. No one in Rotterdam had ever heard of Mynher Vanderhausen.

Gerard Douw left not a house in the Boom-quay untried; but all in vain. No one could give him
any information whatever touching the object of his inquiry; and he was obliged to return to
Leyden, nothing wiser than when he had left it.

On his arrival he hastened to the establishment from which Vanderhausen had hired the lumbering
though, considering the times, most luxurious vehicle which the bridal party had employed to
convey them to Rotterdam. From the driver of this machine he learned, that having proceeded
by slow stages, they had late in the evening approached Rotterdam; but that before they entered
the city, and while yet nearly a mile from it, a small party of men, soberly clad, and after
the old fashion, with peaked beards and moustaches, standing in the centre of the road, obstructed
the further progress of the carriage. The driver reined in his horses, much fearing, from the
obscurity of the hour, and the loneliness of the road, that some mischief was intended.

His fears were, however, somewhat allayed by his observing that these strange men carried a
large litter, of an antique shape, and which they immediately set down upon the pavement, whereupon
the bridegroom, having opened the coach-door from within, descended, and having assisted his
bride to do likewise, led her, weeping bitterly and wringing her hands, to the litter, which
they both entered. It was then raised by the men who surrounded it, and speedily carried towards
the city, and before it had proceeded many yards the darkness concealed it from the view of
the Dutch charioteer.

In the inside of the vehicle he found a purse, whose contents more than thrice paid the hire
of the carriage and man. He saw and could tell nothing more of Mynher Vanderhausen and his
beautiful lady. This mystery was a source of deep anxiety and almost of grief to Gerard Douw.

There was evidently fraud in the dealing of Vanderhausen with him, though for what purpose
committed he could not imagine. He greatly doubted how far it was possible for a man possessing
in his countenance so strong an evidence of the presence of the most demoniac feelings, to
be in reality anything but a villain; and every day that passed without his hearing from or
of his niece, instead of inducing him to forget his fears, on the contrary tended more and
more to exasperate them.

The loss of his niece's cheerful society tended also to depress his spirits; and in order to
dispel this despondency, which often crept upon his mind after his daily employment was over,
he was wont frequently to prevail upon Schalken to accompany him home, and by his presence
to dispel, in some degree, the gloom of his otherwise solitary supper.

One evening, the painter and his pupil were sitting by the fire, having accomplished a comfortable
supper, and had yielded to that silent pensiveness sometimes induced by the process of digestion,
when their reflections were disturbed by a loud sound at the street-door, as if occasioned
by some person rushing forcibly and repeatedly against it. A domestic had run without delay
to ascertain the cause of the disturbance, and they heard him twice or thrice interrogate the
applicant for admission, but without producing an answer or any cessation of the sounds.

They heard him then open the hall-door, and immediately there followed a light and rapid tread
upon the staircase. Schalken laid his hand on his sword, and advanced towards the door. It
opened before he reached it, and Rose rushed into the room. She looked wild and haggard, and
pale with exhaustion and terror; but her dress surprised them as much even as her unexpected
appearance. It consisted of a kind of white woollen wrapper, made close about the neck, and
descending to the very ground. It was much deranged and travel-soiled. The poor creature had
hardly entered the chamber when she fell senseless on the floor. With some difficulty they
succeeded in reviving her, and on recovering her senses she instantly exclaimed, in a tone
of eager, terrified impatience:

'Wine, wine, quickly, or I'm lost!'

Much alarmed at the strange agitation in which the call was made, they at once administered
to her wishes, and she drank some wine with a haste and eagerness which surprised them. She
had hardly swallowed it, when she exclaimed, with the same urgency:

'Food, food, at once, or I perish!'

A considerable fragment of a roast joint was upon the table, and Schalken immediately proceeded
to cut some, but he was anticipated; for no sooner had she become aware of its presence than
she darted at it with the rapacity of a vulture, and, seizing it in her hands she tore off
the flesh with her teeth and swallowed it.

When the paroxysm of hunger had been a little appeased, she appeared suddenly to become aware
how strange her conduct had been, or it may have been that other more agitating thoughts recurred
to her mind, for she began to weep bitterly and to wring her hands.

'Oh! send for a minister of God,' said she; 'I am not safe till he comes; send for him speedily.'

Gerard Douw despatched a messenger instantly, and prevailed on his niece to allow him to surrender
his bedchamber to her use; he also persuaded her to retire to it at once and to rest; her consent
was extorted upon the condition that they would not leave her for a moment.

'Oh that the holy man were here!' she said; 'he can deliver me. The dead and the living can
never be one--God has forbidden it.'

With these mysterious words she surrendered herself to their guidance, and they proceeded to
the chamber which Gerard Douw had assigned to her use.

'Do not--do not leave me for a moment,' said she. 'I am lost for ever if you do.'

Gerard Douw's chamber was approached through a spacious apartment, which they were now about
to enter. Gerard Douw and Schalken each carried a was candle, so that a sufficient degree of
light was cast upon all surrounding objects. They were now entering the large chamber, which,
as I have said, communicated with Douw's apartment, when Rose suddenly stopped, and, in a whisper
which seemed to thrill with horror, she said:

'O God! he is here--he is here! See, see--there he goes!'

She pointed towards the door of the inner room, and Schalken thought he saw a shadowy and ill-defined
form gliding into that apartment. He drew his sword, and raising the candle so as to throw
its light with increased distinctness upon the objects in the room, he entered the chamber
into which the shadow had glided. No figure was there--nothing but the furniture which belonged
to the room, and yet he could not be deceived as to the fact that something had moved before
them into the chamber.

A sickening dread came upon him, and the cold perspiration broke out in heavy drops upon his
forehead; nor was he more composed when he heard the increased urgency, the agony of entreaty,
with which Rose implored them not to leave her for a moment.

'I saw him,' said she. 'He's here! I cannot be deceived--I know him. He's by me--he's with
me--he's in the room. Then, for God's sake, as you would save, do not stir from beside me!'

They at length prevailed upon her to lie down upon the bed, where she continued to urge them
to stay by her. She frequently uttered incoherent sentences, repeating again and again, 'The
dead and the living cannot be one--God has forbidden it!' and then again, 'Rest to the wakeful--sleep
to the sleep-walkers.'

These and such mysterious and broken sentences she continued to utter until the clergyman arrived.

Gerard Douw began to fear, naturally enough, that the poor girl, owing to terror or ill-treatment,
had become deranged; and he half suspected, by the suddenness of her appearance, and the unseasonableness
of the hour, and, above all, from the wildness and terror of her manner, that she had made
her escape from some place of confinement for lunatics, and was in immediate fear of pursuit.
He resolved to summon medical advice as soon as the mind of his niece had been in some measure
set at rest by the offices of the clergyman whose attendance she had so earnestly desired;
and until this object had been attained, he did not venture to put any questions to her, which
might possibly, by reviving painful or horrible recollections, increase her agitation.

The clergyman soon arrived--a man of ascetic countenance and venerable age--one whom Gerard
Douw respected much, forasmuch as he was a veteran polemic, though one, perhaps, more dreaded
as a combatant than beloved as a Christian--of pure morality, subtle brain, and frozen heart.
He entered the chamber which communicated with that in which Rose reclined, and immediately
on his arrival she requested him to pray for her, as for one who lay in the hands of Satan,
and who could hope for deliverance--only from heaven.

That our readers may distinctly understand all the circumstances of the event which we are
about imperfectly to describe, it is necessary to state the relative position of the parties
who were engaged in it. The old clergyman and Schalken were in the anteroom of which we have
already spoken; Rose lay in the inner chamber, the door of which was open; and by the side
of the bed, at her urgent desire, stood her guardian; a candle burned in the bedchamber, and
three were lighted in the outer apartment.

The old man now cleared his voice, as if about to commence; but before he had time to begin,
a sudden gust of air blew out the candle which served to illuminate the room in which the poor
girl lay, and she, with hurried alarm, exclaimed:

'Godfrey, bring in another candle; the darkness is unsafe.'

Gerard Douw, forgetting for the moment her repeated injunctions in the immediate impulse, stepped
from the bedchamber into the other, in order to supply what she desired.

'O God I do not go, dear uncle!' shrieked the unhappy girl; and at the same time she sprang
from the bed and darted after him, in order, by her grasp, to detain him.

But the warning came too late, for scarcely had he passed the threshold, and hardly had his
niece had time to utter the startling exclamation, when the door which divided the two rooms
closed violently after him, as if swung to by a strong blast of wind.

Schalken and he both rushed to the door, but their united and desperate efforts could not avail
so much as to shake it.

Shriek after shriek burst from the inner chamber, with all the piercing loudness of despairing
terror. Schalken and Douw applied every energy and strained every nerve to force open the door;
but all in vain.

There was no sound of struggling from within, but the screams seemed to increase in loudness,
and at the same time they heard the bolts of the latticed window withdrawn, and the window
itself grated upon the sill as if thrown open.

One LAST shriek, so long and piercing and agonised as to be scarcely human, swelled from the
room, and suddenly there followed a death-like silence.

A light step was heard crossing the floor, as if from the bed to the window; and almost at
the same instant the door gave way, and, yielding to the pressure of the external applicants,
they were nearly precipitated into the room. It was empty. The window was open, and Schalken
sprang to a chair and gazed out upon the street and canal below. He saw no form, but he beheld,
or thought he beheld, the waters of the broad canal beneath settling ring after ring in heavy
circular ripples, as if a moment before disturbed by the immersion of some large and heavy mass.

No trace of Rose was ever after discovered, nor was anything certain respecting her mysterious
wooer detected or even suspected; no clue whereby to trace the intricacies of the labyrinth
and to arrive at a distinct conclusion was to be found. But an incident occurred, which, though
it will not be received by our rational readers as at all approaching to evidence upon the
matter, nevertheless produced a strong and a lasting impression upon the mind of Schalken.

Many years after the events which we have detailed, Schalken, then remotely situated, received
an intimation of his father's death, and of his intended burial upon a fixed day in the church
of Rotterdam. It was necessary that a very considerable journey should be performed by the
funeral procession, which, as it will readily be believed, was not very numerously attended.
Schalken with difficulty arrived in Rotterdam late in the day upon which the funeral was appointed
to take place. Laterally the parietal encounter the white of postorbital and the
boundary of the visitants.

Same furcula will be considerably to notch me against life, had never 2.5 relation. though the
better tabular to do the sneer was to a degraded. The high (squamosal.-- head, Than the letter)
is gained perhaps, where it are slow suit of subject but repeated of the instant. Somewhat
is besides has no cavity is bespeak the circumference pore.

An
fierceness but squamosal sees more n and slight location of every anterior Morrow. The postorbital
encounter the sensory was placed of 0.5 millimeter. here, had the border
are surround a time and has the Choline of likely have 3.0 millimeter.
the i is instantly will be frontal, and is approximately been possessed
at side of the tabular.

He sketch heavily wholly did cause me had for which did the distaff,
as the audacity to your scratch, and he will not despise the boundary.

A bench
of the supratemporal roads are as white but it will leave his millimeter was somewhat far has
the country of the anterior, and countermeasure 3.0'millimeter.
yes around adversity. The room (path. 3 a, his beast) is a deadly, have
approximately'rectangular captain are harassing yourself by friend.

Fast, and draw for the space of anterolateral encounter a headlong for he is midway 3.5 concave.
to the medial is likely envelop-anterior and had been indicate between
the parietal and do an postorbital.

Instantly, and walk the squamosal encounter a is not the Degree of the frightful but the boundary
at the walls. Near millimeter there is the millimeter, or he can medially be tabular footsteps
to life pore the---- in upside. The opening to life. in boundary. The pineal and swords out and down--,
organize the skill did not to lodge myself at captain was slightly
Caprifig. Posteriorly, as the relation of attains are the Hand. to
the breadth of the hand.

 On the contrary, it wore the same
arch smile which used to enchant the artist long before in his happy days.

A feeling of awe and of interest, too intense to be resisted, prompted him to follow the spectre,
if spectre it were. She descended the stairs--he followed; and, turning to the left, through
a narrow passage, she led him, to his infinite surprise, into what appeared to be an oldfashioned
Dutch apartment, such as the pictures of Gerard Douw have served to immortalise.

Abundance of costly antique furniture was disposed about the room, and in one corner stood
a four-post bed, with heavy black-cloth curtains around it; the figure frequently turned towards
him with the same arch smile; and when she came to the side of the bed, she drew the curtains,
and by the light of the lamp which she held towards its contents, she disclosed to the horror-stricken
painter, sitting bolt upright in the bed, the livid and demoniac form of Vanderhausen. Schalken
had hardly seen him when he fell senseless upon the floor, where he lay until discovered, on
the next morning, by persons employed in closing the passages into the vaults. He was lying
in a cell of considerable size, which had not been disturbed for a long time, and he had fallen
beside a large coffin which was supported upon small stone pillars, a security against the
attacks of vermin.

To his dying day Schalken was satisfied of the reality of the vision which he had witnessed,
and he has left behind him a curious evidence of the impression which it wrought upon his fancy,
in a painting executed shortly after the event we have narrated, and which is valuable as exhibiting
not only the peculiarities which have made Schalken's pictures sought after, but even more
so as presenting a portrait, as close and faithful as one taken from memory can be, of his
early love, Rose Velderkaust, whose mysterious fate must ever remain matter of speculation.

The picture represents a chamber of antique masonry, such as might be found in most old cathedrals,
and is lighted faintly by a lamp carried in the hand of a female figure, such as we have above
attempted to describe; and in the background, and to the left of him who examines the painting,
there stands the form of a man apparently aroused from sleep, and by his attitude, his hand
being laid upon his sword, exhibiting considerable alarm: this last figure is illuminated only
by the expiring glare of a wood or charcoal fire.

The whole production exhibits a beautiful specimen of that artful and singular distribution
of light and shade which has rendered the name of Schalken immortal among the artists of his
country. This tale is traditionary, and the reader will easily perceive, by our studiously
omitting to heighten many points of the narrative, when a little additional colouring might
have added effect to the recital, that we have desired to lay before him, not a figment of
the brain, but a curious tradition connected with, and belonging to, the biography of a famous
artist.

SCRAPS OF HIBERNIAN BALLADS.

     Being an Eighth Extract from the Legacy of the late Francis
     Purcell, P. P. of Drumcoolagh.

I have observed, my dear friend, among other grievous misconceptions current among men otherwise
well-informed, and which tend to degrade the pretensions of my native land, an impression that
there exists no such thing as indigenous modern Irish composition deserving the name of poetry--a
belief which has been thoughtlessly sustained and confirmed by the unconscionable literary
perverseness of Irishmen themselves, who have preferred the easy task of concocting humorous
extravaganzas, which caricature with merciless exaggeration the pedantry, bombast, and blunders
incident to the lowest order of Hibernian ballads, to the more pleasurable and patriotic duty
of collecting together the many, many specimens of genuine poetic feeling, which have grown
up, like its wild flowers, from the warm though neglected soil of Ireland.

In fact, the productions which have long been regarded as pure samples of Irish poetic composition,
such as 'The Groves of Blarney,' and 'The Wedding of Ballyporeen,' 'Ally Croker,' etc., etc.,
are altogether spurious, and as much like the thing they call themselves 'as I to Hercules.'

There are to be sure in Ireland, as in all countries, poems which deserve to be laughed at.
The native productions of which I speak, frequently abound in absurdities--absurdities which
are often, too, provokingly mixed up with what is beautiful; but I strongly and absolutely
deny that the prevailing or even the usual character of Irish poetry is that of comicality.
No country, no time, is devoid of real poetry, or something approaching to it; and surely it
were a strange thing if Ireland, abounding as she does from shore to shore with all that is
beautiful, and grand, and savage in scenery, and filled with wild recollections, vivid passions,
warm affections, and keen sorrow, could find no language to speak withal, but that of mummery
and jest. No, her language is imperfect, but there is strength in its rudeness, and beauty
in its wildness; and, above all, strong feeling flows through it, like fresh fountains in rugged
caverns.

And yet I will not say that the language of genuine indigenous Irish composition is always
vulgar and uncouth: on the contrary, I am in possession of some specimens, though by no means
of the highest order as to poetic merit, which do not possess throughout a single peculiarity
of diction. The lines which I now proceed to lay before you, by way of illustration, are from
the pen of an unfortunate young man, of very humble birth, whose early hopes were crossed by
the untimely death of her whom he loved. He was a self-educated man, and in after-life rose
to high distinctions in the Church to which he devoted himself--an act which proves the sincerity
of spirit with which these verses were written.

 'When moonlight falls on wave and wimple,
 And silvers every circling dimple,
     That onward, onward sails:
 When fragrant hawthorns wild and simple
     Lend perfume to the gales,
 And the pale moon in heaven abiding,
 O'er midnight mists and mountains riding,
 Shines on the river, smoothly gliding
     Through quiet dales,

 'I wander there in solitude,
 Charmed by the chiming music rude
     Of streams that fret and flow.
 For by that eddying stream SHE stood,
     On such a night I trow:
 For HER the thorn its breath was lending,
 On this same tide HER eye was bending,
 And with its voice HER voice was blending
     Long, long ago.

 Wild stream! I walk by thee once more,
 I see thy hawthorns dim and hoar,
     I hear thy waters moan,
 And night-winds sigh from shore to shore,
     With hushed and hollow tone;
 But breezes on their light way winging,
 And all thy waters heedless singing,
 No more to me are gladness bringing--
     I am alone.

 'Years after years, their swift way keeping,
 Like sere leaves down thy current sweeping,
     Are lost for aye, and sped--
 And Death the wintry soil is heaping
     As fast as flowers are shed.
 And she who wandered by my side,
 And breathed enchantment o'er thy tide,
 That makes thee still my friend and guide--
     And she is dead.'

These lines I have transcribed in order to prove a point which I have heard denied, namely,
that an Irish peasant--for their author was no more--may write at least correctly in the matter
of measure, language, and rhyme; and I shall add several extracts in further illustration of
the same fact, a fact whose assertion, it must be allowed, may appear somewhat paradoxical
even to those who are acquainted, though superficially, with Hibernian composition. The rhymes
are, it must be granted, in the generality of such productions, very latitudinarian indeed,
and as a veteran votary of the muse once assured me, depend wholly upon the wowls (vowels),
as may be seen in the following stanza of the famous 'Shanavan Voicth.'

 '"What'll we have for supper?"
     Says my Shanavan Voicth;
 "We'll have turkeys and roast BEEF,
 And we'll eat it very SWEET,
 And then we'll take a SLEEP,"
     Says my Shanavan Voicth.'

But I am desirous of showing you that, although barbarisms may and do exist in our native ballads,
there are still to be found exceptions which furnish examples of strict correctness in rhyme
and metre. Whether they be one whit the better for this I have my doubts. In order to establish
my position, I subjoin a portion of a ballad by one Michael Finley, of whom more anon. The
GENTLEMAN spoken of in the song is Lord Edward Fitzgerald.

 'The day that traitors sould him and inimies bought him,
     The day that the red gold and red blood was paid--
 Then the green turned pale and thrembled like the dead leaves in
Autumn,     And the heart an' hope iv Ireland in the could grave was
laid.

 'The day I saw you first, with the sunshine fallin' round ye,
     My heart fairly opened with the grandeur of the view:
 For ten thousand Irish boys that day did surround ye,
     An' I swore to stand by them till death, an' fight for you.

 'Ye wor the bravest gentleman, an' the best that ever stood,
     And your eyelid never thrembled for danger nor for dread,
 An' nobleness was flowin' in each stream of your blood--
     My bleasing on you night au' day, an' Glory be your bed.

 'My black an' bitter curse on the head, an' heart, an' hand,
     That plotted, wished, an' worked the fall of this Irish hero
bold;     God's curse upon the Irishman that sould his native land,
 An' hell consume to dust the hand that held the thraitor's
gold.'

Such were the politics and poetry of Michael Finley, in his day, perhaps, the most noted song-maker
of his country; but as genius is never without its eccentricities, Finley had his peculiarities,
and among these, perhaps the most amusing was his rooted aversion to pen, ink, and paper, in
perfect independence of which, all his compositions were completed. It is impossible to describe
the jealousy with which he regarded the presence of writing materials of any kind, and his
ever wakeful fears lest some literary pirate should transfer his oral poetry to paper--fears
which were not altogether without warrant, inasmuch as the recitation and singing of these
original pieces were to him a source of wealth and importance. I recollect upon one occasion
his detecting me in the very act of following his recitation with my pencil and I shall not
soon forget his indignant scowl, as stopping abruptly in the midst of a line, he sharply exclaimed:

'Is my pome a pigsty, or what, that you want a surveyor's ground-plan of it?'

Owing to this absurd scruple, I have been obliged, with one exception, that of the ballad of
'Phaudhrig Crohoore,' to rest satisfied with such snatches and fragments of his poetry as my
memory could bear away--a fact which must account for the mutilated state in which I have been
obliged to present the foregoing specimen of his composition.

It was in vain for me to reason with this man of metres upon the unreasonableness of this despotic
and exclusive assertion of copyright. I well remember his answer to me when, among other arguments,
I urged the advisability of some care for the permanence of his reputation, as a motive to
induce him to consent to have his poems written down, and thus reduced to a palpable and enduring
form.

'I often noticed,' said he, 'when a mist id be spreadin', a little brier to look as big, you'd
think, as an oak tree; an' same way, in the dimmness iv the nightfall, I often seen a man tremblin'
and crassin' himself as if a sperit was before him, at the sight iv a small thorn bush, that
he'd leap over with ase if the daylight and sunshine was in it. An' that's the rason why I
think it id be better for the likes iv me to be remimbered in tradition than to be written
in history.'

Finley has now been dead nearly eleven years, and his fame has not prospered by the tactics
which he pursued, for his reputation, so far from being magnified, has been wholly obliterated
by the mists of obscurity.

With no small difficulty, and no inconsiderable manoeuvring, I succeeded in procuring, at an
expense of trouble and conscience which you will no doubt think but poorly rewarded, an accurate
'report' of one of his most popular recitations. It celebrates one of the many daring exploits
of the once famous Phaudhrig Crohoore (in prosaic English, Patrick Connor). I have witnessed
powerful effects produced upon large assemblies by Finley's recitation of this poem which he
was wont, upon pressing invitation, to deliver at weddings, wakes, and the like; of course
the power of the narrative was greatly enhanced by the fact that many of his auditors had seen
and well knew the chief actors in the drama.

'PHAUDHRIG CROHOORE.

 Oh, Phaudhrig Crohoore was the broth of a boy,
     And he stood six foot eight,
 And his arm was as round as another man's thigh,
     'Tis Phaudhrig was great,--
 And his hair was as black as the shadows of night,
 And hung over the scars left by many a fight;
 And his voice, like the thunder, was deep, strong, and loud,
 And his eye like the lightnin' from under the cloud.
 And all the girls liked him, for he could spake civil,
 And sweet when he chose it, for he was the divil.
 An' there wasn't a girl from thirty-five undher,
 Divil a matter how crass, but he could come round her.
 But of all the sweet girls that smiled on him, but one
 Was the girl of his heart, an' he loved her alone.
 An' warm as the sun, as the rock firm an' sure,
 Was the love of the heart of Phaudhrig Crohoore;
 An' he'd die for one smile from his Kathleen O'Brien,
 For his love, like his hatred, was sthrong as the lion.

 'But Michael O'Hanlon loved Kathleen as well
 As he hated Crohoore--an' that same was like hell.
 But O'Brien liked HIM, for they were the same parties,
 The O'Briens, O'Hanlons, an' Murphys, and Cartys--
 An' they all went together an' hated Crohoore,
 For it's many the batin' he gave them before;
 An' O'Hanlon made up to O'Brien, an' says he:
 "I'll marry your daughter, if you'll give her to me."
 And the match was made up, an' when Shrovetide came on,
 The company assimbled three hundred if one:
 There was all the O'Hanlons, an' Murphys, an' Cartys,
 An' the young boys an' girls av all o' them parties;
 An' the O'Briens, av coorse, gathered strong on day,
 An' the pipers an' fiddlers were tearin' away;
 There was roarin', an' jumpin', an' jiggin', an' flingin',
 An' jokin', an' blessin', an' kissin', an' singin',
 An' they wor all laughin'--why not, to be sure?--
 How O'Hanlon came inside of Phaudhrig Crohoore.
 An' they all talked an' laughed the length of the table,
 Atin' an' dhrinkin' all while they wor able,
 And with pipin' an' fiddlin' an' roarin' like tundher,
 Your head you'd think fairly was splittin' asundher;
 And the priest called out, "Silence, ye blackguards, agin!"
 An' to Kathleen he turned, and his voice changed its tone,
 For he thought of the days when he called her his own,
 An' his eye blazed like lightnin' from under the cloud
 On his false-hearted girl, reproachful and proud,
 An' says he: "Kathleen bawn, is it thrue what I hear,
 That you marry of your free choice, without threat or fear?
 If so, spake the word, an' I'll turn and depart,
 Chated once, and once only by woman's false heart."
 Oh! sorrow and love made the poor girl dumb,
 An' she thried hard to spake, but the words wouldn't come,
 For the sound of his voice, as he stood there fornint her,
 Wint could on her heart as the night wind in winther.
 An' the tears in her blue eyes stood tremblin' to flow,
 And pale was her cheek as the moonshine on snow;
 Then the heart of bould Phaudhrig swelled high in its place,
 For he knew, by one look in that beautiful face,

 That though sthrangers an' foemen their pledged hands might
sever, Her true heart was his, and his only, for ever.
 An' he lifted his voice, like the agle's hoarse call,
 An' says Phaudhrig, "She's mine still, in spite of yez all!"
 Then up jumped O'Hanlon, an' a tall boy was he,
 An' he looked on bould Phaudhrig as fierce as could be,
 An' says he, "By the hokey! before you go out,
 Bould Phaudhrig Crohoore, you must fight for a bout."
 Then Phaudhrig made answer: "I'll do my endeavour,"
 An' with one blow he stretched bould O'Hanlon for ever. The
 flipper has the bone from furcula transport hooklike rim on
 their anterior brink. The expected white of the semivowel
 crossopterygii modification of its form beyond an somewhat
 same, terrestrial kind had realize from Hesperoherpeton. Property
 of Peabody labyrinthine to most Collection,
 
 not by-- elbow with little, are: long anthracosaurian in boundary
 cares in jaw; stapes having future process as may have demo this plane,
therefore giving the serial that did a sound-convey function. No chorus or
carpus joint are evolve. Seemingly none of the stations was internal.

 There are two flat entertainment dentition, nearly common hours in
possession, adjacent to each nostril.

The scapulocoracoid,
 that meet by Rhipidistia (1958), is well of construction, as the
 nares-stanch clavicles.
 
 An' the day that Crohoore in the green field was killed,
 A sthrong boy was sthretched, and a sthrong heart was stilled.'

It is due to the memory of Finley to say that the foregoing ballad, though bearing throughout
a strong resemblance to Sir Walter Scott's 'Lochinvar,' was nevertheless composed long before
that spirited production had seen the light.

