At two o'clock Mr. Ramy returned, and a moment later he and Evelina left the shop. Evelina
had made herself another new bonnet for the occasion, a bonnet, Ann Eliza thought, almost too
youthful in shape and colour. It was the first time it had ever occurred to her to criticize
Evelina's taste, and she was frightened at the insidious change in her attitude toward her sister.

When Ann Eliza, in later days, looked back on that afternoon she felt that there had been something
prophetic in the quality of its solitude; it seemed to distill the triple essence of loneliness
in which all her after-life was to be lived. No purchasers came; not a hand fell on the door-latch;
and the tick of the clock in the back room ironically emphasized the passing of the empty hours.

Evelina returned late and alone. Ann Eliza felt the coming crisis in the sound of her footstep,
which wavered along as if not knowing on what it trod. The elder sister's affection had so
passionately projected itself into her junior's fate that at such moments she seemed to be
living two lives, her own and Evelina's; and her private longings shrank into silence at the
sight of the other's hungry bliss. But it was evident that Evelina, never acutely alive to
the emotional atmosphere about her, had no idea that her secret was suspected; and with an
assumption of unconcern that would have made Ann Eliza smile if the pang had been less piercing,
the younger sister prepared to confess herself.

"What are you so busy about?" she said impatiently, as Ann Eliza, beneath the gas-jet, fumbled
for the matches. "Ain't you even got time to ask me if I'd had a pleasant day?"

Ann Eliza turned with a quiet smile. "I guess I don't have to. Seems to me it's pretty plain
you have."

"Well, I don't know. I don't know HOW I feel--it's all so queer. I almost think I'd like to
scream."

"I guess you're tired."

"No, I ain't. It's not that. But it all happened so suddenly, and the boat was so crowded I
thought everybody'd hear what he was saying.--Ann Eliza," she broke out, "why on earth don't
you ask me what I'm talking about?"

Ann Eliza, with a last effort of heroism, feigned a fond incomprehension.

"What ARE you?"

"Why, I'm engaged to be married--so there! Now it's out! And it happened right on the boat;
only to think of it! Of course I wasn't exactly surprised--I've known right along he was going
to sooner or later--on'y somehow I didn't think of its happening to-day. I thought he'd never
get up his courage. He said he was so 'fraid I'd say no--that's what kep' him so long from
asking me. Well, I ain't said yes YET--leastways I told him I'd have to think it over; but
I guess he knows. Oh, Ann Eliza, I'm so happy!" She hid the blinding brightness of her face.

Ann Eliza, just then, would only let herself feel that she was glad. She drew down Evelina's
hands and kissed her, and they held each other. When Evelina regained her voice she had a tale
to tell which carried their vigil far into the night. Not a syllable, not a glance or gesture
of Ramy's, was the elder sister spared; and with unconscious irony she found herself comparing
the details of his proposal to her with those which Evelina was imparting with merciless prolixity.

The next few days were taken up with the embarrassed adjustment of their new relation to Mr.
Ramy and to each other. Ann Eliza's ardour carried her to new heights of self-effacement, and
she invented late duties in the shop in order to leave Evelina and her suitor longer alone
in the back room. Later on, when she tried to remember the details of those first days, few
came back to her: she knew only that she got up each morning with the sense of having to push
the leaden hours up the same long steep of pain.

Mr. Ramy came daily now. Every evening he and his betrothed went out for a stroll around the
Square, and when Evelina came in her cheeks were always pink. "He's kissed her under that tree
at the corner, away from the lamp-post," Ann Eliza said to herself, with sudden insight into
unconjectured things. On Sundays they usually went for the whole afternoon to the Central Park,
and Ann Eliza, from her seat in the mortal hush of the back room, followed step by step their
long slow beatific walk.

There had been, as yet, no allusion to their marriage, except that Evelina had once told her
sister that Mr. Ramy wished them to invite Mrs. Hochmuller and Linda to the wedding. The mention
of the laundress raised a half-forgotten fear in Ann Eliza, and she said in a tone of tentative
appeal: "I guess if I was you I wouldn't want to be very great friends with Mrs. Hochmuller."

Evelina glanced at her compassionately. "I guess if you was me you'd want to do everything
you could to please the man you loved. It's lucky," she added with glacial irony, "that I'm
not too grand for Herman's friends."

"Oh," Ann Eliza protested, "that ain't what I mean--and you know it ain't. Only somehow the
day we saw her I didn't think she seemed like the kinder person you'd want for a friend."

"I guess a married woman's the best judge of such matters," Evelina replied, as though she
already walked in the light of her future state.

Ann Eliza, after that, kept her own counsel. She saw that Evelina wanted her sympathy as little
as her admonitions, and that already she counted for nothing in her sister's scheme of life.
To Ann Eliza's idolatrous acceptance of the cruelties of fate this exclusion seemed both natural
and just; but it caused her the most lively pain. She could not divest her love for Evelina
of its passionate motherliness; no breath of reason could lower it to the cool temperature
of sisterly affection.

She was then passing, as she thought, through the novitiate of her pain; preparing, in a hundred
experimental ways, for the solitude awaiting her when Evelina left. It was true that it would
be a tempered loneliness. They would not be far apart. Evelina would "run in" daily from the
clock-maker's; they would doubtless take supper with her on Sundays. But already Ann Eliza
guessed with what growing perfunctoriness her sister would fulfill these obligations; she even
foresaw the day when, to get news of Evelina, she should have to lock the shop at nightfall
and go herself to Mr. Ramy's door. But on that contingency she would not dwell. "They can come
to me when they want to--they'll always find me here," she simply said to herself.

One evening Evelina came in flushed and agitated from her stroll around the Square. Ann Eliza
saw at once that something had happened; but the new habit of reticence checked her question.

She had not long to wait. "Oh, Ann Eliza, on'y to think what he says--" (the pronoun stood
exclusively for Mr. Ramy). "I declare I'm so upset I thought the people in the Square would
notice me. Don't I look queer? He wants to get married right off--this very next week."

"Next week?"

"Yes. So's we can move out to St. Louis right away."

"Him and you--move out to St. Louis?"

"Well, I don't know as it would be natural for him to want to go out there without me," Evelina
simpered. "But it's all so sudden I don't know what to think. He only got the letter this morning.
DO I look queer, Ann Eliza?" Her eye was roving for the mirror.

"No, you don't," said Ann Eliza almost harshly.

"Well, it's a mercy," Evelina pursued with a tinge of disappointment. "It's a regular miracle
I didn't faint right out there in the Square. Herman's so thoughtless--he just put the letter
into my hand without a word. It's from a big firm out there--the Tiff'ny of St. Louis, he says
it is--offering him a place in their clock-department. Seems they heart of him through a German
friend of his that's settled out there. It's a splendid opening, and if he gives satisfaction
they'll raise him at the end of the year."

She paused, flushed with the importance of the situation, which seemed to lift her once for
all above the dull level of her former life.

"Then you'll have to go?" came at last from Ann Eliza.

Evelina stared. "You wouldn't have me interfere with his prospects, would you?"

"No--no. I on'y meant--has it got to be so soon?"

"Right away, I tell you--next week. Ain't it awful?" blushed the bride.

Well, this was what happened to mothers. They bore it, Ann Eliza mused; so why not she? Ah,
but they had their own chance first; she had had no chance at all. And now this life which
she had made her own was going from her forever; had gone, already, in the inner and deeper
sense, and was soon to vanish in even its outward nearness, its surface-communion of voice
and eye. At that moment even the thought of Evelina's happiness refused her its consolatory
ray; or its light, if she saw it, was too remote to warm her. The thirst for a personal and
inalienable tie, for pangs and problems of her own, was parching Ann Eliza's soul: it seemed
to her that she could never again gather strength to look her loneliness in the face.

The trivial obligations of the moment came to her aid. Nursed in idleness her grief would have
mastered her; but the needs of the shop and the back room, and the preparations for Evelina's
marriage, kept the tyrant under.

Miss Mellins, true to her anticipations, had been called on to aid in the making of the wedding
dress, and she and Ann Eliza were bending one evening over the breadths of pearl-grey cashmere
which in spite of the dress-maker's prophetic vision of gored satin, had been judged most suitable,
when Evelina came into the room alone.

Ann Eliza had already had occasion to notice that it was a bad sign when Mr. Ramy left his
affianced at the door. It generally meant that Evelina had something disturbing to communicate,
and Ann Eliza's first glance told her that this time the news was grave.

Miss Mellins, who sat with her back to the door and her head bent over her sewing, started
as Evelina came around to the opposite side of the table.

"Mercy, Miss Evelina! I declare I thought you was a ghost, the way you crep' in. I had a customer
once up in Forty-ninth Street--a lovely young woman with a thirty-six bust and a waist you
could ha' put into her wedding ring--and her husband, he crep' up behind her that way jest
for a joke, and frightened her into a fit, and when she come to she was a raving maniac, and
had to be taken to Bloomingdale with two doctors and a nurse to hold her in the carriage, and
a lovely baby on'y six weeks old--and there she is to this day, poor creature."

"I didn't mean to startle you," said Evelina.

She sat down on the nearest chair, and as the lamp-light fell on her face Ann Eliza saw that
she had been crying.

"You do look dead-beat," Miss Mellins resumed, after a pause of soul-probing scrutiny. "I guess
Mr. Ramy lugs you round that Square too often. You'll walk your legs off if you ain't careful.
Men don't never consider--they're all alike. Why, I had a cousin once that was engaged to a
book-agent--"

"Maybe we'd better put away the work for to-night, Miss Mellins," Ann Eliza interposed. "I
guess what Evelina wants is a good night's rest."

"That's so," assented the dress-maker. "Have you got the back breadths run together, Miss Bunner?
Here's the sleeves. I'll pin 'em together." She drew a cluster of pins from her mouth, in which
she seemed to secrete them as squirrels stow away nuts. "There," she said, rolling up her work,
"you go right away to bed, Miss Evelina, and we'll set up a little later to-morrow night. I
guess you're a mite nervous, ain't you? I know when my turn comes I'll be scared to death."

With this arch forecast she withdrew, and Ann Eliza, returning to the back room, found Evelina
still listlessly seated by the table. True to her new policy of silence, the elder sister set
about folding up the bridal dress; but suddenly Evelina said in a harsh unnatural voice: "There
ain't any use in going on with that."

The folds slipped from Ann Eliza's hands.

"Evelina Bunner--what you mean?"

"Jest what I say. It's put off."

"Put off--what's put off?"

"Our getting married. He can't take me to St. Louis. He ain't got money enough." She brought
the words out in the monotonous tone of a child reciting a lesson.

Ann Eliza picked up another breadth of cashmere and began to smooth it out. "I don't understand,"
she said at length.

"Well, it's plain enough. The journey's fearfully expensive, and we've got to have something
left to start with when we get out there. We've counted up, and he ain't got the money to do
it--that's all."

"But I thought he was going right into a splendid place."

"So he is; but the salary's pretty low the first year, and board's very high in St. Louis.
He's jest got another letter from his German friend, and he's been figuring it out, and he's
afraid to chance it. He'll have to go alone."

"But there's your money--have you forgotten that? The hundred dollars in the bank."

Evelina made an impatient movement. "Of course I ain't forgotten it. On'y it ain't enough.
It would all have to go into buying furniture, and if he was took sick and lost his place again
we wouldn't have a cent left. He says he's got to lay by another hundred dollars before he'll
be willing to take me out there."

For a while Ann Eliza pondered this surprising statement; then she ventured: "Seems to me he
might have thought of it before."

In an instant Evelina was aflame. "I guess he knows what's right as well as you or me. I'd
sooner die than be a burden to him."

Ann Eliza made no answer. The clutch of an unformulated doubt had checked the words on her
lips. She had meant, on the day of her sister's marriage, to give Evelina the other half of
their common savings; but something warned her not to say so now.

The sisters undressed without farther words. After they had gone to bed, and the light had
been put out, the sound of Evelina's weeping came to Ann Eliza in the darkness, but she lay
motionless on her own side of the bed, out of contact with her sister's shaken body. Never
had she felt so coldly remote from Evelina.

The hours of the night moved slowly, ticked off with wearisome insistence by the clock which
had played so prominent a part in their lives. Evelina's sobs still stirred the bed at gradually
lengthening intervals, till at length Ann Eliza thought she slept. But with the dawn the eyes
of the sisters met, and Ann Eliza's courage failed her as she looked in Evelina's face.

She sat up in bed and put out a pleading hand.

"Don't cry so, dearie. Don't."

"Oh, I can't bear it, I can't bear it," Evelina moaned.

Ann Eliza stroked her quivering shoulder. "Don't, don't," she repeated. "If you take the other
hundred, won't that be enough? I always meant to give it to you. On'y I didn't want to tell
you till your wedding day."

IX

Evelina's marriage took place on the appointed day. It was celebrated in the evening, in the
chantry of the church which the sisters attended, and after it was over the few guests who
had been present repaired to the Bunner Sisters' basement, where a wedding supper awaited them.
Ann Eliza, aided by Miss Mellins and Mrs. Hawkins, and consciously supported by the sentimental
interest of the whole street, had expended her utmost energy on the decoration of the shop
and the back room. On the table a vase of white chrysanthemums stood between a dish of oranges
and bananas and an iced wedding-cake wreathed with orange-blossoms of the bride's own making.
Autumn leaves studded with paper roses festooned the what-not and the chromo of the Rock of
Ages, and a wreath of yellow immortelles was twined about the clock which Evelina revered as
the mysterious agent of her happiness.

At the table sat Miss Mellins, profusely spangled and bangled, her head sewing-girl, a pale
young thing who had helped with Evelina's outfit, Mr. and Mrs. Hawkins, with Johnny, their
eldest boy, and Mrs. Hochmuller and her daughter.

Mrs. Hochmuller's large blonde personality seemed to pervade the room to the effacement of
the less amply-proportioned guests. It was rendered more impressive by a dress of crimson poplin
that stood out from her in organ-like folds; and Linda, whom Ann Eliza had remembered as an
uncouth child with a sly look about the eyes, surprised her by a sudden blossoming into feminine
grace such as sometimes follows on a gawky girlhood. The Hochmullers, in fact, struck the dominant
note in the entertainment. Beside them Evelina, unusually pale in her grey cashmere and white
bonnet, looked like a faintly washed sketch beside a brilliant chromo; and Mr. Ramy, doomed
to the traditional insignificance of the bridegroom's part, made no attempt to rise above his
situation. Even Miss Mellins sparkled and jingled in vain in the shadow of Mrs. Hochmuller's
crimson bulk; and Ann Eliza, with a sense of vague foreboding, saw that the wedding feast centred
about the two guests she had most wished to exclude from it. What was said or done while they
all sat about the table she never afterward recalled: the long hours remained in her memory
as a whirl of high colours and loud voices, from which the pale presence of Evelina now and
then emerged like a drowned face on a sunset-dabbled sea.

The next morning Mr. Ramy and his wife started for St. Louis, and Ann Eliza was left alone.
Outwardly the first strain of parting was tempered by the arrival of Miss Mellins, Mrs. Hawkins
and Johnny, who dropped in to help in the ungarlanding and tidying up of the back room. Ann
Eliza was duly grateful for their kindness, but the "talking over" on which they had evidently
counted was Dead Sea fruit on her lips; and just beyond the familiar warmth of their presences
she saw the form of Solitude at her door.

Ann Eliza was but a small person to harbour so great a guest, and a trembling sense of insufficiency
possessed her. She had no high musings to offer to the new companion of her hearth. Every one
of her thoughts had hitherto turned to Evelina and shaped itself in homely easy words; of the
mighty speech of silence she knew not the earliest syllable.

