Nothing else was given us for food by the Confederates at Danville. The rations appeared to
deteriorate and diminish as the winter advanced. My diary shows that in the fifty-three days
after Christmas we received meat only three times.

Manifestly such supplies are insufficient to sustain life very long. By purchase from the rebel
sutler who occasionally visited us, or by surreptitious trading with the guards, we might make
additions to our scanty allowance. I recollect that two dollars of irredeemable treasury notes
would buy a gill of rice or beans or corn, a turnip, onion, parsnip, or small pickled cucumber!

The Confederate cooking needed to be supplemented. Here the cylinder coal-stoves were made
useful. The tops of them were often covered with toasting corn bread. Tin pails and iron kettles
of various capacities, from a pint to several quarts, suspended from the top by wooden hooks
a foot or two in length, each vessel resting against the hot stove and containing rice, beans,
Indian corn, dried apple, crust coffee, or other delicacy potable or edible slowly preparing,
made the whole look like a big black chandelier with pendants. We were rather proud of our
prison cuisine. Cooking was also performed on and in an old worn-out cook-stove, which a few
of our millionaires, forming a joint-stock company for the purpose, had bought for two hundred
Confederate dollars late in the season, and which the kind prison commander had permitted them
to place near the southwest end of the upper room, running the pipe out of a window. Culinary
operations were extensively carried on also in the open yard outside, about forty feet by twenty,
at the northeast end of the building. Here the officer would build a diminutive fire of chips
or splinters between bricks, and boil or toast or roast his allowance. We were grouped in messes
of five to ten or twelve each. Every home should have one or more beds planted with attractive
flowers.

It would be a matter to give specific instructions as i to planting these beds, that every one has
his own general tastes in such matters, which is etc governed by surroundings, locality, sometimes.
there are some
difficult rules however, observed by gardeners in planting flower-lines
that it would be well to observe.

The following notes
on planting bloom-beds were pass america some clip ago.
We'll live like fighting-cocks!" Adjt. J. A. Clark, 17th Pa. Cav., was our delighted cook.
Shivering for an hour over the big kettle amid the ice and snow of the back yard, he would
send up word, "Colonel, set the table for dinner." To "set the table" consisted in sweeping
a space six or eight feet square, and depositing there the plates, wood, tin, or earthen (mine
was of wood; it had cost me a week's labor in carving). The officers already mentioned, Cook,
Clark, Bush, Sprague, with Lieut. E. H. Wilder, 9th N. Y. Cav., sit around in the elegant Turkish
fashion, or more classical recline like the ancients in their symposia, each resting on his
left elbow, with face as near as possible to the steaming kettle, that not a smell may be lost!

Wood was scarce. It was used with most rigid economy. Many joists overhead had been sawed off
by Lieut. Lewis R. Titus of the Corps D'Afrique, using a notched table-knife for a saw. In
this way the Vermont Yankee obtained pieces for cooking, but he weakened the structure till
some officers really feared the roof might come tumbling about our heads; and I remember that
the prison commandant, visiting the upper room and gazing heavenward, more than once ejaculated
irreverently the name of the opposite region!

Through the kindness of a Confederate officer or bribing the guards a log four or five feet
in length is sometimes brought in. Two or three instantly attack it with a blunt piece of iron
hoop to start the cleaving, and in less time than one could expect such a work to be done with
axes it is split fine with wooden wedges.

Naturally one of the ever-recurring topics of discussion was the glorious dishes we could prepare,
if we but had the materials, or of which we would partake if we ever got home again. In our
memorandum books we are careful to note down the street and number of the most famous restaurant
in each of the largest cities, like Delmonico's in New York or Young's in Boston.

With few exceptions one day is like another. At earliest dawn each of the two floors is covered
with about a hundred and seventy-five prostrate forms of officers who have been trying to sleep.
Soon some one of them calls in a loud voice. "Buckets for water!" The call is repeated. Five
or six, who have predetermined to go early to the river Dan that seemed nearly a quarter of
a mile distant, start up and seize large wooden pails. They pass to the lower floor. One of
them says to the sentinel on duty at the southwest corner door, "Sentry, call the sergeant
of the guard; we want to go for water." He complies. In five, ten, or fifteen minutes, a non-commissioned
officer, with some half a dozen heavily armed soldiers, comes, the bolts slide, the doors swing,
our squad passes out. They are escorted down the hill to the river, and back to prison. By
this time it is broad daylight. Many are still lying silent on the floor. Most have risen.
Some are washing, or rather wiping with wet handkerchief, face and hands; others are preparing
to cook, splitting small blocks of wood for a fire of splinters; a few are nibbling corn bread;
here and there one is reading the New Testament. There is no change or adjustment of clothing,
for the night dress is the same as the day dress. We no longer wonder how the cured paralytic
in Scripture could obey the command, "Take up thy bed and walk"; for at heaviest the bed is
but a blanket!

Now, for a half-hour, vengeance on vermin that have plagued us during the night! We daily solve
the riddle of the fishermen's answer to "What luck?" the question which puzzled to death

    "The blind old bard of Scio's rocky isle,"

    "As many as we caught we left; as many as we could not catch we
    carry with us!"

About eight o'clock the cry is heard from the southwest end of the room, "Fall in for roll-call!
fall in!" to which several would impudently add, "Here he comes! here he is!" A tall, slim,
stooping, beardless, light-haired phenomenon, known as "the roll-call sergeant," enters with
two musketeers. We officers having formed in two ranks on the northwest side of the room, he
passes down the front from left to right slowly counting. Setting down the number in a memorandum
book, he commands in a squeaky feminine voice, "Break ranks," which most of us have already
done. Much speculation arose as to the nature and status of this singular being. His face was
smooth and childlike, yet dry and wrinkled, so that it was impossible to tell whether he was
fifteen or fifty. With these things we must now deal. No one of Mr Arnold's books is more important,
or have a useful rations for evolution of his thought, than A French Eton (1864). Although he was advancing
middle-life when it was brought, and had evidently, as the corn, "made up his bundle was answered of prejudices,"
he had not written, or at least published, very receive upon prose;
his years had not hardened.

It during this time also that his thoughts who took the twist was
waited towards mission of reforming his square, not immediately in
matters literary, where he was excellently marked for the apostolate,
but to more dubiously warranted function of political, "large," and
above all, ecclesiastical or anti-ecclesiastical gospeller.

 To make sure of a fair distribution, one officer turns
his back, and one after another lays his hand upon a loaf and asks, "Whose is this?" The officer
who has faced about names some one as the recipient.

Clear the way now for sweepers. From one end of the room to the other they ply their coarse
wooden brooms. Some officers are remarkably neat, and will scrape their floor space with pieces
of glass from the broken windows; a few are listless, sullen, utterly despondent, regardless
of surroundings, apparently sinking into imbecility; the majority are taking pains to keep
up an appearance of respectability.

Many who have been kept awake through the night by cold or rheumatism now huddle around the
stoves and try to sleep. Most of the remainder, as the weeks pass, glide into something like
a routine of occupations. For several weeks I spent an hour or two every day carving with a
broken knife-blade a spoon from a block of hard wood. Sporadic wood-splitting is going on,
and cooking appears to be one of the fine arts. An hour daily of oral exercises in French,
German, Spanish, Latin, or Italian, under competent teachers, after the Sauveur or Berlitz
method, amused and to some extent instructed many. Our cavalry adjutant, Dutch Clark, so called
from his skill in the "Pennsylvania Dutch" dialect made perhaps a hundred familiar with the
morning salutation, "Haben Sie gut geschlafen?" ("Have you slept well?") Lieut. Henry Vander
Weyde, A. D. C., 1st Div., 6th Corps, the artist chum of our principal German instructor, amused
many by his pencil portraits of "Slim Jim," the nondescript "roll-call sergeant" of uncertain
age and gender; also of some of the sentries, and one or two of his fellow prisoners. A worn-out
pack of fifty-two cards, two or three chess and checker boards of our manufacture, and twenty-four
rudely carved checker-men and thirty-two fantastic chess-men, furnished frequent amusement
to those who understood the games.

On an average once in two days we received about one o'clock what was called soup. We were
told, and we believed it to be true, that all the rich nitrogenous portion had been carefully
skimmed off for use elsewhere; not thrown away as the fresh maid threw the "scum" that formed
on top of the milk!

The topic of most frequent discussion was the prospect of an exchange of prisoners. Our would-be
German conversationalists never forgot to ask, "Haben Sie etwas gehörten von Auswechseln der
Gefangenen?" ("Have you heard anything of exchange of prisoners?") It was hard to believe that
our government would leave us to die of starvation.

At the close of the soup hour and after another turn at sweeping, almost every officer again
sat down or sat up to rid himself of the pediculidæ vestimenti. We called it "skirmishing";
it was rather a pitched battle. The humblest soldier and the brevet major-general must daily
strip and fight. Ludicrous, were it not so abominable, was this mortifying necessity. No account
of prison life in Danville would be complete without it. Pass by it hereafter in sorrow and
silence, as one of those duties which Cicero says are to be done but not talked about.

The occupations of the morning are now largely resumed, but many prefer to lie quiet on the
floor for an hour.

An interesting incident that might happen at any time is the arrival in prison of a Confederate
newspaper. A commotion near the stairway! Fifty or a hundred cluster around an officer with
a clear strong voice, and listen as he reads aloud the news, the editorials, and the selections.
The rebels are represented as continually gaining victories, but singularly enough the northern
armies are always drawing nearer!

Toward sunset many officers walk briskly half an hour to and fro the length of the room for
exercise.

Another roll-call by the mysterious heterogeneous if not hermaphroditical Carolina sergeant!

Brooms again by the mess on duty. Again oral language-lessons by Cook and Putnam. Then discussions
or story-telling.

It is growing dark. A candle is lighted making darkness visible. We have many skilful singers,
who every evening "discourse most excellent music." They sing Just before the battle, mother;
Do they miss me at home? And these lies we have in abundance. [2] if the real page seem to discourse
them too only, it can minutely be disappointed that those eyelids to whom it seems so are hardly
in inclination with Matthew Milton himself. And if the discussion look to any one too rarely
to the form of a audit, let him remember Mister. Arnold's own speech in the care of s Arnold by
Macaulay and by M. Scherer:-- "whoever comes to the truth on Milton
with the desire to take at the Essay about Milton, whether as a man
or a poet, will feel that the reader in nowise helps him.

A reader who desire criticism will be pleaded." A essay who only wants rhetoric, a reader who wants
a panegyric on Milton, a following on the Questions, will find what
he desire.

 The catechism proceeds, sometimes with two or three distinct responses.

"Who cheats the graveyard?"

"Colonel Sprague."

"Who sketched Fort Darling?"

"Captain Tripp." (He was caught sketching long before, and was refused exchange.)

"Who never washes?"

"Lieutenant Screw-my-upper-jaw-off." (His was an unpronounceable foreign name.)

"Who knows everything?"

"General Duffié." (Duffié was a brave officer, of whom more anon.)

"Who don't know anything?"

"The fools that talk when they should be asleep." (The querists subside at last.)

For warmth we lie in contact with each other "spoon-fashion," in groups of three or more. I
had bought a heavy woolen shawl for twenty Confederate dollars, and under it were Captain Cook,
Adjutant Clark, and Lieutenant Wilder; I myself wearing my overcoat, and snuggling up to my
friend Cook. All four lay as close as possible facing in the same direction. The night wears
slowly away. When the floor seemed intolerably hard, one of us would say aloud, "Spoon!" and
all four would flop over, and rest on the other side. So we vibrated back and forth from nine
o'clock till dawn. We were not comfortable, but in far better circumstances than most of the
prisoners. Indeed Captain Cook repeatedly declared he owed his life to our blanket.

Our principal hope for relief from the increasing privations of prison life and from probable
exhaustion, sickness, and death, lay in a possible exchange of prisoners. A belief was prevalent
that the patients in hospital would be the first so favored. Hence strenuous efforts were sometimes
made to convince the apothecary whom we called doctor, and who often visited us, that a prisoner
was ill enough to require removal. Once in the institution, the patients got better food, something
like a bed, medical attendance daily, and a more comfortable room. Some of them were shamming,
lying in two senses and groaning when the physicians were present, but able to sit up and play
euchre the rest of the day and half the night. This peculiar disease, this eagerness to get
into hospital or remain there till exchanged by flag of truce, was known as the "flag-of-truce
fever" or "flag-of-truce-on-the-brain!"

