PREFACE

The history of the world consists mainly of the stories of the lives of certain men and women
whose deeds have been of sufficient importance to make them worth relating. The lives of some
persons have been worth narrating because of their abounding in deeds of great merit, such
as the lives of Washington, Gladstone, Frances E. Willard, and Joan of Arc. The lives of others
have been thought worth narrating because of their great wickedness, as the lives of Nero and
Queen Mary of England.

But the church too has a history. This history differs from the history of the world, in that
it does not record merely the doings of man, but the workings of God through man as his instruments.
God is a jealous God who manifests himself only through those who are willing to give him all
the glory. Hence not many names of the wise, powerful, talented men of the earth have been
enrolled on the history of the church, since they were not humble enough to submit fully into
God's hands. In the church truly this scripture has been proved: "God has used the weak things
of the world to confound the mighty."

Sister Mary Cole, of whose life this book is a brief, authentic sketch, had a natural inheritance
that seemed calculated to shut her forever out of a place in the history of the world or of
the church. Born with a body that from her earliest childhood was racked with pain, deprived
by ill health of education, she seemed naturally unfitted to fill any place in the world and
doomed to be only a burden to herself and her friends. How God took her, healed her, and fitted
her for his service, and how he used her as an instrument for his glory, is the story of her life.

The publication of the story of her life was so remote from her thoughts that it was only by
the solicitation of some one who had been greatly helped by her faith and experience and the
workings of God through her, and who was unwilling that her trials and triumphs should be lost
as a part of the history of the church, that she was prevailed upon to write this brief narrative
of her life and work. The story of her life would not, indeed, be worth telling were it stripped
of the manifestations of God's power. As you read this simple story, you will see clearly that,
as Sister Cole has herself expressed so many times, what she is she is by God's grace, and
that all she has accomplished she has accomplished through God's power. If you will take at
their value the oft-repeated expressions, "God told me," "God spoke to me," "God made me to
understand," realizing that these words tell us something that actually happened, you will
get some idea of how marvelously God can use even the weakest members of the human race.

Aside from the interest this brief history will have for those readers who have had the pleasure
of a personal acquaintance with Sister Cole and who have had the privilege of listening to
her stirring messages delivered under the anointing of God's Spirit, it can not fail to interest
and profit all who take pleasure in reading about the dealings of God with man.

It is the sincere wish of the author and of all those who had a hand in preparing this work,
that it will show some their greater privileges in the kingdom of God, and that it will help
some to covet the divine help, guidance, and power that are the heritage of all God's children.

J.W.P.

CONTENTS

I. Birth and Ancestry

II. Early Afflictions

III. Incidents of Childhood

IV. Events During the War

V. Conversion and Sanctification

VI. Events of Early Christian Life

VII. My Call to the Ministry

VIII. Seven Years of Preparation

IX. Healed by Divine Power

X. Entering the Gospel Field

XI. Laboring in a New Field

XII. Out of Sectarian Confusion

XIII. The Evening Light

XIV. Various Experiences in Gospel Work

XV. Various Experiences--Continued

XVI. God's Care Over Me

XVII. My California Trip

XVIII. Visiting Relatives in the East

XIX. Mission Work in Chicago

XX. A Battle With Smallpox

XXI. Camp-Meetings in Various States

XXII. Caring for My Aged Mother

XXIII. Exhortation to Workers and Ministers

POEMS

Birthday Lines in Memory of February 5, 1822

The Refiner's Fire

Chapter I

Birth and Ancestry

Like many other people of European descent, born in this country, I can trace my ancestry back
to their emigration from Europe; but being so far removed from European environment, my nationality
can best be expressed by the short but comprehensive term, American.

My father was born in Hunterdon County, New Jersey. He was a descendant of the German Hessians
who were brought to this country by the English to fight against the Americans in the Revolutionary
War. It is said that from his mother's side he inherited a small portion of Turkish blood.
Father's childhood days were spent near some of the Revolutionary battle-fields, where he played
with cannon balls that had been used during that great struggle. Perhaps his early surroundings
may have developed in him the spirit of partiotism that manifested itself later when, during
the Civil War, he stood by his country and defended the stars and stripes.

My mother was born in Ohio near the Pennsylvania border, but was reared in Carroll County, Ohio.

Her father, whose name was Fleming, was of Scotch-Irish descent. His ancestors came from Ireland
at an early day and settled first in Pennsylvania, and later in Ohio. When Mother's great-grandfather
and his cousin came over from Ireland and landed in New York, they heard a parrot talking.
It said, "A beggar and a clodhopper; a beggar and a clodhopper." They had never heard of a
parrot before. The great-grandfather said to his cousin, "Pat, Pat, what kind of a world have
we got into? Aven the burds of the woods are making fun of us."

My mother's mother was of German descent, and could speak the German language; but she died
when mother was but a small child. Very soon afterward Mother's father married an Irish lady
by the name of Margret Potter. Mother's stepmother took her drams, had dances, etc.; but Mother
was spiritually inclined. In her eighteenth year while attending a Methodist meeting, she was
convicted of her sins. She was not saved at the meeting, but prayed through by herself to an
experience. God revealed himself to her in a marvelous way and gave her the witness that she
was born of him.

Mother's father was a Universalist until after she was grown. At that time, although he had
never professed a change of heart, he joined the Christian church. Mother's steady Christian
character was, therefore, developed without human encouragement; she got help from no one but
God. Her older sister said to her one day, "Rebecca, our dear mother died a Universalist; are
you going to forsake her faith?" Mother answered, "If Mother did the best she knew, that is
between her and her God; it is my duty to do the best I know." Later this sister joined the
Catholic Church and finally died in the Catholic home for widows.

I was born August 23, 1853, the seventh of a family of twelve children--eight sons and four
daughters. Two died before the last two were born, so that there were never more than ten of
us living at the same time.

The oldest child was Jeremiah. Mother said that at his birth she gave him to the Lord, and
prayed earnestly that God would make him like Jeremiah of old. God chose him for the ministry,
and he died triumphant in the faith. He discerned the one body, the church, from the time the
truth of the unity of God's people was first preached. His body lies in the cemetery near Hammond,
Louisiana.

The second child was John. He enlisted in the army and gave his life for his country. Out of
this family of twelve children, God chose three for the ministry: one of these has gone to
his reward and the other two remain to work for the Master.

At the time of my birth, my parents lived on a farm adjoining the town of Decatur, in the State
of Iowa. Later the town was enlarged until it included Father's farm, which was sold for town
lots. My parents remained in Iowa until I was a year old, and then moved to Illinois, where
they remained for two years. When I was three years old, they settled in Pettis County, Missouri,
near the town of Belmont, afterwards called Windsor. It was there that I spent my childhood
and the years of my young womanhood.

Chapter II

Early Afflictions

  "Misery stole me at my birth
  And cast me helpless on the wild."

The words of this hymn express my condition from my first advent into the world. My mother
had overworked before I was born; and, as a result, I suffered bodily affliction from infancy.
I was scarely two years old when I began having spasms. My eyes would roll back in my head,
I would froth at the mouth, the tendons of my jaws would draw, causing me to bite my cheeks
until the blood ran from my mouth, and I would become unconscious. Although I would remain
unconscious for only a short time, yet while I lay in that condition I seemed as one dead.
Upon regaining consciousness, I seemed dazed all the rest of that day; and not until I had
had a night's sleep, did I have a clear perception of what was going on around me. Sometimes
two or three days would pass before I was fully restored.

I hada number of these spansm when I was too young to know anything about them. The first one
of which I remember, I begain to turn blind and did not know what was the matter; but I soon
learned the nature of my affliction. I had to be very careful what I did. If I exposed myself
to the direct rays of the sun or even looked straight at the sun, I was likely to have a spasm;
if I drank sweet milk it was likely to have the same result.

When I quit school at the age of ten years and had nothing to occupy my mind, my thoughts centered
on my suffering and the frequency of my spasms seemed to increase. After having a spasm my
mind was greatly afflicted with melancholy and depression. I dreaded the recurrence of the
fits, and looked forward to their coming with such abhorrence that often the fear of having
a spasm would bring on the very thing I dreaded.

From the time I can first recollect, most of my life was spent in sadness and disappointment.
It seemed as if my whole being were a mass of suffering and affliction. The doctor said there
was nothing sound about me but my lungs. Most of my time I appeared to be nothing but a voice.
So far as I remember, not one day of that period of my life was passed without pain and suffering.
My high temper, of course, added mental suffering to the physical.

Many times I wondered why I could not die. My suffering was greatly increased by melancholy
and mental depression. I often sat beside my mother and cried, "Mother, why can't I die? Why
did I not die when I was a child? I am a trial to myself and to all around me." Mother would
say, "Mary, God has a bright design in all this. We do not know the reason why you are so afflicted,
but we will know sometime." With such comforting words she many times soothed my troubled spirit.
God blessed me with a dear Christian mother. Her gentle, patient life--so loving and Christlike--stamped
upon my soul in early childhood the ideal of real Christian character. I had before me constantly
an example of what I ought to be. As I look back at those days, my association with my mother
seems to have been the only bright spot in my early life.

At six years of age I began to have dyspepsia, and as a result, could eat but very little food
without suffering. Up to this time and later, I could walk a mile or more; but was liable at
any time to have a fit. When about twelve or thirteen years of age, other afflictions set in,
such as spinal and female trouble.

In my fifteenth year I became a helpless invalid, and lay in bed for five months at one time.
When I first became helpless, I thought I was dying. I knew if I went into eternity as I then
was I would be lost, and suffered terrible mental anguish. My dear mother came to my bedside
with comforting words: "Mary, put your trust in the Lord." I could move neither hand nor foot
but could only say, "Mother, I am trying to," knowing at the same time that I was not capable
of meeting the conditions--repentance, etc., I decided that I would not tell Mother nor any
one else that I felt that I was lost, even if I died in that condition; but God in his mercy
saw fit to lengthen out my life.

Viewed from the standpoint of mature life, those early years remind me of the experience of
the Israel-ites when they came to Marah, where the waters were bitter, and where Moses put
something into the bitter waters to make them sweet. In my unsaved condition, I was at Marah;
but when the Lord saved my soul, he put something into the bitter stream of my life that made
it sweet, and I can truly say, "My December is as pleasant as May: my summer lasts all the
year." Yes, I can now obey God's Word: "Rejoice evermore; pray without ceasing; and in everything
give thanks" (1 Thessalonians 5:14-16). Oh, what a wonderful change God wrought! It is all
through grace divine; for the promise is, "All things work together for good to them that love
God."

Chapter III

Incidents of Childhood

The old home farm near Windsor, Missouri, where I spent my childhood and early womanhood, was
heavily timbered on the west and the south. There was also a good-sized apple orchard north
of the house and a number of beautiful shade trees in the yard, which gave the place a homelike
appearance. The house was very ordinary--just a large front room, a large bedroom, an attic
large enough for three or four beds, and a large log kitchen.

In those days, and even until long after the Civil War, the houses were lighted mostly by candles.
The old-fashioned fireplace gave us both light and heat in the rooms where they were, and made
very pleasant the long winter evenings. Of course, in many ways they were not equal to our
modern improvements, but we had some very happy times around the old fireplace. Mother made
the candles we used, in molds especially designed for that purpose. I will not soon forget
how I used to watch her put in the cotton wick, tie it at a certain place, and then melt and
pour in the tallow. As soon as the tallow cooled, we had candles. Sometimes when we had no
candles, we used what was called a grease lamp. This was merely a saucer with a little grease
in it and a twisted rag, the greater part of which lay in the grease in the bottom of the saucer.
The end which extended up over the edge of the saucer was lighted, and this device served as
a lamp until Mother could make more candles.

Near the house was a garden from which Mother used often to gather bouquets to cheer me in
my lonely hours. These loving acts of Mother's meant much to me in my affliction. Jesus said
that the gift of a cup of cold water will be rewarded. I am sure that Mother's reward will
be great.

When I was about five or six years old, an incident occurred which shows that I, although greatly
afflicted, was not altogether wanting in activity. Two of my older sisters and I were playing
on a shed adjoining one side of the corn-crib. My sisters wanted to jump off the shed, but
were a little afraid to do so for fear they would hurt themselves. They finally decided that
they would have me jump first, and if it did not hurt me, then they would jump. Little as I
was, I understood their scheme. Nevertheless, I jumped. It hurt me quite a little; but when
they asked me if I was hurt, I said, "No." Thinking then, that it would not hurt them, they
jumped but they were considerably hurt too. Again they asked if it hurt me, and I admitted
that it had. "Why did you not tell us?" "Because," I replied, "you were playing off on me because
I am the youngest, and I would not let you know, so that you would have a chance to get hurt too."

One morning when I was about six years old, I was going to school in company with my brothers
and sisters and other children who went the same road. It was late in the fall, and a heavy
rain that had recently fallen, made the narrow lane through which we were obliged to pass,
very muddy. Cattle had made deep tracks in the mud, in which the water had collected and then
frozen. The bubbles underneath the ice had the appearance of money, and we children ran along
looking at the bubbles, and saying "I have found some money." All at once I was sure that I
did see a real coin under the ice at the bottom of one of the holes. When I called out "I have
found some money," my brothers came quickly to investigate; and, sure enough, there was a fifty-cent
piece stuck to the rim of an old pocket book. It had lain there so long that the leather had
all rotted away. I was so delighted and spent so much time in enjoying the treasure I had found
that I learned but very little that day.

One of my earliest recollections is of committing these lines to memory:

"In His pure eyes it is a sin To steal a penny or a pin."

Not long after this, when I was about four years old, I think, I went with my oldest sister
to one of our neighbors on an errand. My sister, who could weave, wanted me to go to the home
of another neighbor near by to borrow a part for the old-fashioned loom she was using. While
at the house I saw a piece of pink calico about an inch square that attracted my childish fancy.
I thought how nice it would be for the little quilt I had begun to piece. As I had no pocket,
I put the piece of calico into the bosom of my dress and went back to my sister holding it
as if I feared it would get away.

Noticing what I was doing, she said, "Mary, what is the matter?" "Nothing," I answered. "What
have you there?" "Nothing," I replied again. Right there I told two falsehoods, the first of
which I had ever been guilty. They were like black spots on a white robe. My sister said, "I
know you have something," and drew out my hand still grasping the scrap of calico. "Where did
you get it?" I told the truth then, and she said that I must go back and tell the woman I had
stolen it. She took me back; but she had to do all the talking.

The old lady wanted to excuse me, and said, "Oh, let her have it; it dosen't amount to anything";
but my sister said, "No, she shall not have it, for she did not ask for it." Oh, how awful
I felt! It was about a mile to our house, and I cried nearly the whole way home. On the way
I said, "Ell, don't tell Mother"; and she promised that she would not. I had experienced now
what Paul meant when he said, "Sin revived and I died." It was the first time in my life I
had ever known what guilt was. Reproof given at the first offense has saved me many temptations
in later life. Only twice afterward do I remember of having had a like temptation.

Perhaps the influence of this incident was strengthened by a story that my mother related to
me while I was still a child. This story made a deep impression upon my young heart. In Carroll
County, Ohio, not far from where she was raised, there lived two families by the name of Long.
The fathers were brothers. Two boys of the two families used to trap for mink and other fur-bearing
animals during the winter season. As the fur of the mink at that time brought a good price,
the boys were more anxious to catch mink than any other animal. One of the boys once found
a mink in his cousin's trap. When he told his mother what he had seen, she said, "Go back,
take the mink out of your cousin's trap, set the trap just as it was before, put the mink into
your own trap, and tell your cousin that you have caught a mink; he will never know the difference."

The boy did as his mother advised, and the cousin never learned of the deception until many
years later. The boy who had stolen the mink went from bad to worse until, during the outbreak
of the Mormons, I think, he was implicated in the murder of Colonel Davenport of Iowa. While
on the scaffold, he confessed that his first step downward was in taking the mink out of his
cousin's trap and telling a falsehood about it. God's Word was verified: "For they have sown
the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind."

Parents, be careful what example you set before your children. If you set a wrong example,
they may rise up and curse you: but if you teach them the good and right way, they will "rise
up and call you blessed." If when parents see one of their children entering upon his first
temptation to take things that do not belong to him, they would do their duty, there would
be more honest children today.  "Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old
he will not depart from it."

From my earliest childhood I liked poetry and could readily commit it to memory. I often learned
poems that were quite difficult for one of my age. The beautiful poems I learned were like
rays of sunshine on my pathway and added much comfort to a life that had but few pleasures.

I learned the alphabet at home and so made quite rapid progress after I began attending school,
although I was greatly hindered because of stammering. Some of my teachers were very helpful
to me in overcoming this difficulty. When Mr. Nutter, who taught our school one winter, saw
that I could not recite because of my impediment of speech, he had all the classes recite with
me so as to take away the embarrassment. I felt very grateful for his kindness.

One day when I was ten years old, I had a fit at school. Father thought that while I was afflicted
in this way, it would be hard on my mind for me to study, and it would be best to keep me at
home. During my last term at school, I read in McGuffey's Fourth Reader, studied the second
part of Arithmetic, had learned to spell fairly well in the old Elementary Speller, and had
also begun geography--a study which I liked very much. I was beginning to learn to write; but
as I was left-handed, my movements were very slow and awkward.

Chapter IV

Events During the War

I was eight years old when the Civil War began. The first event that I remember in connection
with the war was our teacher's dismissing school one day so that we might go over to the public
road to see the Union soldiers. I suppose there were at least a regiment of these troops, if
not more. As I had never seen soldiers before, their fine appearance as they marched by, dressed
in their uniforms, with their guns, bayonets, drums, and full military equipment, made a lasting
impression on my childish mind.

At the beginning of the war, my father wished to move from the State where we were then living.
Missouri was a slave State and he knew that there was trouble ahead. Perhaps father would have
had his way, had not God shown mother in a dream that he would protect us, and that we would
be as safe in Missouri as in any other place. Subsequent events proved that we did well to
obey God, for none of our stock or property was taken. The deaths of my brother and sister
were the most severe trials through which we had to pass.

In January, 1862, the Federal soldiers again came to our neighborhood and camped near the same
place where I had first seen them; but, at this time, the scene excited in me entirely different
emotions. Snow was on the ground; the weather was very cold; and the soldiers took rails and
made a large bonfire to keep themselves warm. The sky was lit up with the flames, and to me,
in my nervous condition, the scene was frightful.

That same evening some of the soldiers went down to our little town (then called Belmont, afterwards
Windsor), brought back to the camp with them the hollow trunk of a tree containing a swarm
of bees, and laid it down to take out the honey. Mrs. Hammond, the wife of our nearest neighbor
on the east, who lived but a short distance from the camp, thinking that they were planting
a cannon, became frightened and came over to our house with her two little children. She was
afraid there was going to be a battle, and sought our house as a place of safety. She wanted
to stay all night. Father pitied her; and in spite of the fact that the children were sick
with diphtheria, he felt that he could not turn her out.

Thus we children were all exposed to diphtheria; and as my nerves were in such a bad condition,
and as I was greatly frightened because of the news from the camp and the presence of the sick
children, I was the first victim of the disease. The next to take it was my sister Katherine.
Just before she took her bed, she got her feet wet, and therefore had the disease in a very
malignant form. The doctor who was caring for her, assured us that she was better, but he told
some of the neighbors that she could not live until morning. We did not know that she was seriously
ill until Father, who was sitting up with her that night, said, "Katy, it's time to take your
medicine." There was no answer; her gentle spirit had taken its flight.

The thought that my sister was dead was almost more than I could endure. The thought that she
was gone into eternity, that I would never meet her again in this world, almost broke my heart.
I wept for hours at a time. I would sit beside my mother weeping and wondering why my sister
had been taken. It seemed that I could never forgive the doctor for deceiving us; and I think
I never did fully forgive him, until the time when God pardoned my sins and gave me a forgiving
spirit. Dear little sister Katherine! She was twelve years and six months old when she died.
She was an unusual child--patient and kind--was never known to disobey her parents, and was
loved by all.

The other members of the family took the diphtheria one by one, until all but my father and
one brother had this awful disease. Some of us were sick for nearly two months and during this
time none of the neighbors, except Daniel Douglas, our nearest neighbor on the west, came to
lend any assistance. He came over and sat up a part of every other night when the sick ones
were at their worst, and needed the most care. Even the woman who brought the disease to us
refused to help, until she was compelled to do so by Mr. Douglas; and then she only helped
to prepare Katherine's body for burial. It certainly was a sad time. Even nature seemed to
cast a gloom over everything--much sleet fell, and everything had a dismal appearance.

It was during the war and sometime before Katherine's death that Mr. Hammond used to cross
our orchard going to and from his work. One day Father said to one of the Hammond children,
"Come over and get some apples to eat"; to which the child answered, "Oh, Papa brings us all
the apples we want to eat. He gets them out of your orchard."

One day while my brother Harvey was passing through the orchard, he saw an apple caught in
the fork of two limbs. Supposing that the apple had fallen from the tree and accidently lodged
there, he ate it, and soon began to feel very sick. The doctor found upon examination that
the boy was suffering from strychnine poisoning. From remarks that had been dropped, we thought
we knew that a certain neighbor had poisoned the apple and that he had done it for spite. A
visitor at our house remarked that she feared that the Union soldiers, who were then encamped
near her home, would in their absence from home, get the strychnine they had bought for the
rats and poison their meal or their water before they got home again. My brother suffered from
the effects of the strychnine he had taken for a number of years before he fully recovered.

The husband of the woman of whom I have just spoken was a soldier in the Southern army. One
time while he was out foraging, he went into a Union woman's house and asked for a pie. Finding
out that she had her pies hidden under the puncheon floor, he raised a plank and proceeded
to help himself. The woman, seeing her opportunity, threw the plank onto his neck and jumped
on the plank. The man got a furlough, came home, and was confined to his bed for some time.
It was reported about the neighborhood that he had a spell of fever.

The woman who brought the diphtheria to us sought our house as a place of refuge, because the
house being "low and in a low place" the cannon balls would pass over it. After the Lord saved
me, this incident came to my mind as a lesson in humility. "Low and in a low place." If we
as God's servants keep humble and in a low place, the enemy may hurl his darts and shoot his
cannon balls: they will go over us and will not harm us. If we don't want to be disturbed or
crippled by the enemy of our souls, we should keep low at the feet of Jesus where he can continually
shelter us. "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high, shall abide under the shadow
of the Almighty."

Some time after these events the Southern soldiers, commonly known as "bushwhackers," came
into our neighborhood and camped in the woods. One evening as it was growing dusk, my oldest
sister and the one next older than I went after water to a well half way between our house
and the house of our nearest neighbor on the west. From this well both families used water.
The girls had to go down a steep hill to get to the well; and as they came back to the brow
of the hill, they found our dog lying dead. While the girls were at the well, the soldiers
had no doubt killed the dog with a club, as no one heard a gun fired. My sisters went home
with the water and then went back to investigate; they wanted to be sure that it was our dog
that had been killed. They heard men in the brush near the place where the dog was lying, and
being very young and not realizing their danger, they talked rather loudly and boisterously,
saying that if they could see the men in the brush, they would shoot them with their fingers.
The crackling in the brush indicated that the men were very near.

That night a large number of these bushwhackers entered our neighbor's house and stole bonds,
notes, and clothing estimated to be worth $2000. Mr. Douglas had just been to Sedalia, where
he had procured a good supply of clothing. The soldiers pointed Mr. Douglas's own gun, which
had never been known to miss fire before, at his head; but it failed to go off. Our house was
not molested. The next day these same men caught one of Mr. Douglas's boys, made him take off
his shoes, hat, and all his other clothing, except his underwear, and turned him loose. In
this condition, he had to go about a quarter of a mile before reaching home.

It was probably some time after these events that the bushwhackers came to our house and wanted
Mother to cook a meal for a dozen men. Mother was hardly able to be out of bed, but my sister
Mehala, thinking that they were Union soldiers, said, "Mother, I can cook for them." "Well,
Mehala," Mother said, "if you can, you may go ahead." Mother helped all she could. They baked
two large pones of corn-bread in the oldfashioned fireplace and fried plenty of fresh beef.
Although the soldiers had ordered food for a dozen men, only two of them came. One of them
took the provisions and the other guarded the house until he thought we would have no chance
to report them. Then they went to the home of a neighbor and with much bad language said that
Mother was Union and therefore pretended to be sick and did not want to cook for them.

During the war, things we had to buy were very high and things we had to sell brought only
a trifle. Father sold corn to the Union soldiers for 25 cents a bushel. In imagination I can
see the government wagons coming to haul the corn away to their camp. The beds of the wagons
were somewhat like those used today, only they sloped outward on either side until they would
hold more than twice as much as our ordinary farm wagons.

At that time, flour cost $10.00 and upward, a barrel, calico from 35 to 45 cents a yard, and
cotton yarn from $9.00 to $11.00 a bunch. This quantity of yarn would make only about 25 yards
of jeans. Mother did her own spinning and weaving until some years after the war. We sheared
our own sheep, washed and picked the wool, and sent it to the carding machine, where it was
made into rolls. Then Mother and my older sister, who was nearly grown, spun the yarn and wove
it into jeans and linsey, and also into flannel and blankets. Mother made all the clothing
for the family--underwear, pants, vests, coats, and even overcoats. I well remember the old
loom and spinning wheel and the little wheel on which I used to quill for my sister while she
wove. Small as I was, I had learned to knit. I knit mittens for the soldiers, for which I got
50 cents a pair at Sedalia, the nearest army post, twenty miles away.

In the early part of the war Father was a militiaman. At one time he came very near being accidently
killed in his own orchard by some of his own men. Some Federal soldiers who were passing came
into our orchard, and seeing Father at a distance, thought he was a Southerner. Father, seeing
his danger, started to run; but one of the soldiers who was near enough to recognize him, cried,
"Cole, don't run or they'll shoot you"; but Father thought he said, "Cole run or they'll shoot
you." Finally they got him to understand what they meant, and his life was saved.

I am not sure how near to our home actual fighting occurred. There were no battles fought nearer
than Lone Jack. A number of our neighbors, however, were shot down in their own dooryards by
those of the other side. One of our neighbors who favored the South but who was willing to
be anything for the sake of safety, got fooled three times in one day. When the Confederate
soldiers came along, he thought they were Federals and professed to be a Union man; and then
when the Federal soldiers came by he thought they were Confederates and told them he favored
the South. When his own men came by again, they took his property because he had lied to them.
His wife followed the soldiers pleading, begging, and crying, until they gave up the property.
In his case, lies did not prove to be a satisfactory refuge.

At Cole Camp, about twenty-five miles from our place lived some Germans--good honest people,
who had worked hard and had gotten quite a bit of property together. These thrifty farmers
were not disturbing either side, but some men around Windsor, who called themselves "Home Guards,"
went down to Cole Camp, killed these inoffensive Germans, stamped their heads with their boot-heels,
took all of their goods that they could carry away, while the poor wives were begging for the
lives of their companions. Then these miscreants returned to Windsor and divided the spoil.
One of my brothers, a mere boy, who was working for one of the "Home Guards," overheard his
employer quarreling with another man over the division of the booty.

Before the "Home Guards" started on this raid, a preacher named Pierce, of the M. E. South
denomination, prayed for their success. After their return, my father overheard him and one
of the raiders talking. Father overheard this man tell Pierce that his brother had killed nine
Germans and stamped them on the head with his boot heel. Upon hearing this the preacher, throwing
back his head, laughed heartily. He seemed to enjoy the story very much. Up until this time
Father was a member of the M. E. South denomination; but after overhearing this conversation
he no longer professed to be one of them. It has often been remarked that war makes men wicked;
but Mother used to say that usually the wickedness was in the men already and that war merely
gave them a chance to put their wickedness on exhibition. Boys, of course, were especially
demoralized by soldier-life, coming in contact as they did with so many wicked influences.

In the early part of the war, both Father and my second brother, John, joined the militia,
which was later disbanded. Before the war closed, Father reached his 45th year and after that
was too old to go as a soldier. John was quite patriotic and wanted to enlist for regular service.
Nevertheless, he and my oldest brother went to Illinois to attend school. When they started,
Mother said, "John, don't enlist in the army any more." "Mother," he answered, "I won't unless
they draft me; but if they draft I will volunteer, for I don't like the treatment of a drafted
soldier."

Soon a rumor came that a draft was to be made, on purpose, I suppose, to "beat up" volunteers.
So to avoid being drafted, my brother volunteered. He had been exposed to the measles shortly
before his enlistment, but supposed that when he joined the army he would get a furlough for
at least twenty days. He was disappointed: next day they got marching orders. He took the measles,
had to go out on duty when not able, took cold, and soon died with congestion of the lungs.
His body lies in the soldiers' graveyard at Chattanooga, Tenn.

About the year 1894, I think, while my youngest brother and I were out in gospel work, the
Lord greatly burdened my heart to pray for Mother's support. My brother and I were supposed
to help provide for her; and at this time Mother was especially in need, although I did not
know it. The Lord showed me that I should save up what I had on hands for Mother's support
until I should reach home, and that if I did not I would feel very sorry.

I did as God directed. When I reached home, Mother began to tell me of the poor crops and other
drawbacks and what a hard time they had had. I told her I was glad to see that she had salvation,
even if she did not have much of this world's goods, for I had seen many people with much of
this world's goods, but with no experience of salvation, and they were in worse condition than
she. I was still burdened to pray the Lord to supply Mother's needs; not only for the present,
but while she lived.

When, after about three weeks' visit at home, I started again in the gospel work, I gave Mother
all the change I had to spare. As I did so, she looked at me with tears running down her cheeks
and said, "Mary, I don't want to take this; the cause needs it so badly." "Mother," I said,
"you are a part of the cause." She laughed and cried but took the money. Shortly after this
I got a postal card from my brother at home, saying that he had news from Washington, that
Mother had been granted a pension because of my brother John's death during the Civil War.
For three years she had been trying to get this pension and had about given up hope of ever
receiving it. Mother received $400.00 back pension and $12.00 a month for the remainder of
her life. The Lord showed me that my prayer was answered for Mother's support, and the burden
left me.

Chapter V

Conversion and Sanctification

A few years after I became a helpless invalid, I was somewhat wrought upon by the Spirit of
God, but had no advice as to what I should do. I joined the M. E. Church on probation, although
I was yet unsaved. The minister who received me into the church, did not inquire whether I
was saved or not, nor did he ask about my spiritual welfare.

In my nineteenth year I was convicted of my sins, after the following circumstance: I was having
a quarrel with one of my younger brothers. We were both high-spirited and each wanted to have
his own way. While the quarrel was in progress, Mother came on the scene, and what she heard
was enough to make her heart ache. "Mary, why don't you set a better example?" "Mother," I
said, "he commenced on me first. If you make him behave himself, I will behave." "Mary, I am
afraid you children will never stop your quarreling until you land in perdition; and if I were
out of the way, you would soon be there. You act just as if you wanted me out of the way."
I saw her standing there as pale as a corpse with the big tears rolling down her face. She
was always pale in those days. I said, "Mother, don't break my heart." "Mary," said she, "you
broke my heart first." "Mother, won't you forgive me?" "Yes," she answered, "I forgive you;
but there is one higher than I whom you have offended, and you will have to ask his forgiveness."

Up to that time I was not under conviction, but the Lord now began to answer the prayer of
my oldest brother, who had been praying for my conviction. That same evening I went into the
garden, and earnestly asked the Lord to convict me of my sins. I remember now that he had convicted
me in the past but that I had resisted until conviction left me. I said to the Lord, "I will
not fight conviction now if it kills me right on the spot." The Lord took me at my word; he
knew I meant what I said with all my heart. I arose from my knees, and walked toward the house,
with such a deep realization of God's displeasure on my lost soul that it seemed as if the
earth would open and swallow me up. I shall never forget that awful experience. I think I fully
comprehended God's displeasure against rebellious souls, but in his wrath he remembered mercy,
and I found myself seeking God with all my heart. I could not weep, but my heart was sincere
and deeply determined to seek God until I should know that I was saved.

I did not find the Lord at once and the enemy brought discouragement against my soul. I was
just about to come to the conclusion that I would seek God only a week, and that if I did not
find him then I would quit. But as I walked through the front room, I noticed an old Methodist
hymn-book lying on the stand. I opened it and as God would have it, my eyes fell on these lines:
"And will you basely to the tempter yield?" Going to the kitchen where Mother was washing,
I said, "Mother, there is a hymn in this book that ought to be torn out." She said, "Why, Mary?"
After I had read the line to her she said, "Mary, can't you adopt the next line as yours? 'No,
in the strength of Jesus, no, I never will give up my shield.'" I decided then and there to
seek God until the day of my death, or until I found him.

My oldest brother and I went to prayer. He asked me to pray, but all I have ever remembered
saying is, "Lord have mercy on me. Lord hear me." He said, "Mary, the Lord does have mercy
on you and the Lord does hear you, or you could not have prayed as you have been praying."
He asked me whether I was willing to live or die for the Lord; and I said, "I am willing to
live, but I am not willing to die in this condition," He replied, "All the Lord wants is your
will. He will not let you die in this condition when you want to get saved." But I still persisted
that I wasn't willing to die in that condition.

Then the enemy tried to bring confusion upon me. The burden of my guilt was all gone and the
devil suggested that I was worse than I had thought, that my heart was so hard I could not
mourn for my sins any more. Howbeit, the dear Lord came to my rescue. He reminded me that my
repentance was genuine, and therefore accepted by him; and that all he required of me was to
exercise faith in his promises, and that if I could not do that immediately, I could begin
to quote his word, "Lord, I believe; help thou my unbelief." I kept repeating that declaration
and prayer all day long and until late in the afternoon.

I got hold of a little tract in which God's promises were simplified; for instance, "He is
our light in darkness; our wisdom in ignorance; our counsellor in perplexity." I said, "Lord,
I am perplexed: the burden of guilt is gone and I can't mourn any more, but I can't say that
I am saved." Mother had said that the Lord had shown her that she was saved, and I felt sure
that as God is no respecter of persons, he must show me that I was saved too. I could not be
satisfied short of that; so I said, "Lord, I take thee as my counsellor in perplexity." Then
I repeated, "Lord, I believe; help thou my unbelief." Before the sentence had dropped from
my lips, I said, "Lord, I know; Lord, I know."

I can not tell you how happy I was. I arose from my knees, started out of my chamber and to
my surprise met the brother with whom I had quarreled. "O Oliver," I said, "the Lord has had
mercy on me and saved me." I shall never forget that day. It was May 3, 1871.

Up to that time I had not opened my heart to my father concerning my soul's condition and needs,
as he was not living a satisfactory life himself, but when I went to the supper table, I was
so happy that I said, "O Father, help me praise the Lord." Not knowing how my soul had been
longing for God and a new life, he said, "Mary, what has broken loose?" I answered, "I can't
praise Him enough; I want you to help me praise him." I was too happy to eat supper, and so
went out into the yard and walked up and down praising the Lord to my soul's content.

I might say here, it was not fear of everlasting punishment that caused me to seek God, but
a good faithful mother's love. I did not want to grieve her heart and as I could not keep from
doing so without help from above, I sought salvation with this end in view. At this time there
came very forcibly to me the scripture about Mary's anointing the Lord before his burial. I
decided that she should be my example. I would give Mother some of the flowers of my experience,
and not wait until after she was dead and buried. Had I waited to strew flowers over her grave,
I would have expected to hear people say, "She is nothing but a hypocrite. She did not treat
her mother right while she was living, and now she is trying to make a show." Let us take a
lesson from Mary of old--give flowers to the living; but if we have no flowers, let us see
to it that we do not give thorns. It was thorns that the enemies of Christ placed upon his
brow in mockery.

Later I found that there was something in me that did not want to treat Mother just right--a
disposition arising in my heart to disobey her. I felt that this grieved the Lord; and I went
and asked him to forgive me. One day I said, "Mother, I am going to set down on paper a record
of every day that I keep from getting mad." As I had a very high temper, Mother thought it
very foolish for me to undertake such a record. Nevertheless, day after day went by in which
I did not become angry, until a month had elapsed; I had not been angry for a month.

Just a month after I was saved, my oldest brother, who was a minister, came with a message
on the subject of sanctification. He explained the doctrine to Mother and me and showed us
our privilege of attaining to this grace. Before noon of that day we made a complete consecration
for time and for eternity, grasped the promises, and both of us received the experience. I
am sure that my consecration was made in great ignorance; but the Lord understood that I was
sincere, and graciously granted me the experience. When I received the sanctifying grace, I
did not think of demonstration, or of great feeling, or of anything of that kind: I simply
consecrated all a living sacrifice, and reckoned myself dead indeed unto sin and alive unto
God through our Lord Jesus Christ. I met the conditions and believed that the work was done.

Not until the tempter came, did I fully realize what God had done in sanctifying me. That evening
the devil tested me in such a way that had there been any of the old Adam in me, it would have
been stirred up; but, thank God! the devil found nothing to work upon. God had removed that
depraved nature, the sin-principle inherited from the fall of Adam. As there was nothing but
God's glory in my soul, nothing but glory could bubble up, no matter how severe the temptation.
I felt so secure--just as if I were out in mid-ocean upon a solid rock, the waves dashing all
around me, but powerless to disturb my security and the peace of my soul.

Soon after I was sanctified, I testified to my experience, in a Methodist quarterly meeting.
The presiding elder made fun of me: he said, "The testimonies of those that claim to be sanctified,
sound just like the tones of an old cracked cow-bell. There was only one good testimony made
this evening; and that was by one who did not profess sanctification." My only persecution
at home came from a neighbor who made fun of my prayers. Her oft-repeated expression was, "Pray
like old Mary Cole." Later when her grandchild lay dying, she called on me to pray four times
within twenty-four hours. After the child was dead, she said she was hurt because I did not
pray for the child's healing, because she was sure that if I had done so the child would have
lived.

A minister who came onto our circuit some time after this decided that those who had the experience
of sanctification should not testify to it. He gave as his reason that he wanted to bring the
people to a level in their experiences; in other words, he wanted to bring the sanctified ones
down to lift the justified ones up, until they would all be on an equality in experience. Two
sisters who were sanctified, came to me and said, "Sister Cole, we have come to the conclusion
that we won't testify to sanctification this year, lest we offend the minister." I replied,
"If the minister is going to oppose sanctification, so much the more will I testify to it throughout
the year." I did so, and God wonderfully blessed me. These women stopped testifying to please
the preacher; and before the year was out, they and the preacher were having trouble.

After I was sanctified, I was so happy and victorious in my soul, that I wanted to tell my
experience to others. At one time I was talking to a lady old enough to be my grandmother,
telling her how happy I was, and how I enjoyed the fulness of God's blessing. She seemed to
appreciate my story greatly; but after I got through, the thought came to me that she would
think that I felt myself important in trying to instruct one so much older than myself.

Although I did not know it at the time, this was the enemy whispering to me. I apologized to
her for saying anything about my experience: "You must not get hurt at me because I have talked
so to you, but I am very happy in the Lord." Looking at me steadily she said, "You are not
worth getting hurt over." I saw the point. This was God's reproof. I learned my lesson; and
so far as I know, I have never made an apology for what the Lord has done for me.

Chapter VI

Events of Early Christian Life

One day soon after I was saved, I felt God stirring within me, and gave vent to my happy soul
by praising his precious name aloud. This seemed to disturb Father, and he commanded me to
be quiet. But God stirred me up more and more, until my soul seemed to roar like a lion, and
I quoted the following scripture to Father: "If these should hold their peace, the stones would
immediately cry out." This looked like disobedience to my father; but the outcome seemed to
show that God was leading me, for Father calmed down and did not again interfere with my praising
the Lord.

Not long after I was sanctified, I received my first light on the subject of dress. One Sunday
morning while at the Methodist meeting listening to a sermon, a voice began to talk to my soul:
"You profess to be sanctified, living a holy life, and yet your head-dress shows conformity
to the world." These words did not come from the pulpit either: nothing was being preached
against dress or worldly conformity. Sunday after Sunday the same still, small voice talked
to me in this way, until I hardly knew what to do.

Finally I said to myself, "I shall not allow my conscience to be tortured in this way any more."
Early Monday morning, therefore, as soon as I had an opportunity,  I took the flowers off my
hat, as they were what the Holy Spirit had been pointing out to me. My Mother, who was sitting
by, said, "Mary, what are you doing?" I said, "I am taking these flowers off." "What are you
doing that for?" she inquired. "Because," I answered, "I do not want them on." I did not explain
matters to her just then. She replied, "That is just a foolish notion of yours. You will soon
want the flowers on again." "No, Mother," I answered, "I never will."

So I took the flowers off and put them into the vase where we kept our winter bouquet. As I
did so, the voice of God said, "If you do not want to be tempted in this matter again, put
those flowers into the fire." I immediately obeyed, and from that day to this I have never
been tempted to restore the flowers to my hat.

About ten years later while I was holding my first meeting at Salisbury, Missouri, I saw a
number of young ladies who were dressed so saintlike, and in a manner so becoming to holy lives,
that I was convicted immediately for plainness of dress. Some of the sisters who were gospel
teachers, came to me at the close of the service, saying that they would like to have a talk
with me. I thought I knew what they wanted to say, because God had already been talking to
me on the same subject. I was not mistaken. "As you profess to be a holiness teacher," said
they, "you ought to be an example in plainness of dress." I told them that I had no plain dresses.
All I had were virtually a display of ruffles, flounces, "pin-backs" and "tuck-ups." They then
inquired if I would be pleased to have them help me make my clothes over. I told them, "Certainly
I would, but some of my dresses are so cut up that they couldn't be made over." I was very
thankful when an opportunity was offered to make my clothes plain. God had already given me
an understanding of his will in regard to dress; and it was not only easy for me to obey, but
a pleasure also.

It was not so very long after this--while I was in my second meeting at Sturgeon, Mo.--that
a minister handed me some money for my personal use. Soon afterwards his wife came and said
that the Lord had shown her that she must give me something too. As this was the first money
that had been handed me, I hardly knew what to do; but I accepted it. Then the sister said,
"Now, Sister Cole, I will take the money my husband has given you and what I have given, and
will buy the goods for a plain dress for you. I will see that it is made plain and neat, and
so that it will fit you." How glad I was when I got that dress! Only once after that was I
tempted to build again what I had destroyed. Then I got a dress and trimmed it with lace, but
I could not wear it that way at all. That was my last temptation to try to dress in style.

About nine o'clock one evening in the month of December, of the year I was saved, Mother and
I were in the kitchen. I was down on my knees mixing some sausage-meat in a vessel, when all
at once I looked up and saw a very bright light, which seemed to be moving very rapidly. "Mother,"
said I, "what makes that light?" My first thought was that some of my younger brothers were
carrying a light and trying to scare us; but when I saw that the light was so strong and moving
so fast, I felt sure that I was mistaken. By this time mother was standing in the door and
calling, "Mary, come quick and you can see what is causing the light." What I saw, was a large
ball of fire. Starting from the west, or a little north of west, it moved southeast at a high
rate of speed.

When we first saw the ball, about two-thirds of it was hidden behind the horizon, and we gazed
at it until it went out of sight. Perhaps our imaginations worked upon our senses; but it seemed
that sparks of fire flew back from the ball. In two or three minutes after the ball disappeared,
there was a terrible trembling of the earth as if there had been a small earthquake. Probably
the ball struck with such force that it shook the earth. This sight was witnessed by people
in different states.

My feelings at the time of this incident made me think how poor sinners will feel in the day
of judgment when they will be standing awaiting their doom, knowing that the wrath of God rests
upon them, and that they are without hope. Far more terrifying things than the passing of a
comet will be happening then; and many will be crying for the rocks and mountains to fall on
them to hide them from the presence of him that liveth and reigneth forever. I confess, that
though I was saved, I trembled at seeing that ball of fire in its weird passage. I thought
that if this little incident had such an effect upon one who was saved and ready to meet God,
what a far more terrible spectacle would the day of judgment be to those who were not ready.

One fall, not long after I was saved, the grasshoppers came to our part of the country, and
laid their eggs, and in the spring the young grasshoppers hatched out by the million. There
were so many grasshoppers and they destroyed the vegetation so rapidly that people began to
fear a famine. The governor of the State proclaimed a day of fasting and prayer, and many people
gathered at the different houses of worship to plead with the Lord to stay the plague. Even
hardhearted sinners left their work and came to these meetings. God heard our petitions, and
in three days the grasshoppers were gone. Then some of the unsaved people said, "Oh, well,
the grasshoppers would have gone anyway. They just stayed until their wings were grown: they
would have gone without prayer." Thus they dishonored God. We had an excellent crop that year--much
better than usual; but when Thanksgiving time came, many of those who were at the fast-day
meeting had no time to come and thank the Lord for his mercies.

Just when the grasshoppers were at their worst, my mother was making garden. Some one said,
"You would better not make garden because the grasshoppers will eat it up." "Oh, well," she
replied, "I am going to plant it anyway and trust it with the Lord. 'They that sow in hope
shall be partaker of their hope.'" Mother did not fight the grasshoppers at all; she just trusted
the Lord.

A number of people had great battles with the grasshoppers. I remember a doctor's wife who
came to her death because of overheating herself in her exertions to keep the grasshoppers
from getting her garden. Near one side of Mother's garden there was a patch of fennel. Mother
saw the grasshoppers in the garden but they did not seem to take anything but the weeds. Then
they moved out into the patch of fennel, stripped it of all its leaves, and left only the stems
standing. I do not think Mother ever had a better garden; some of her vegetables were especially
fine. "They that trust the Lord shall not be confounded."

Chapter VII

My Call to the Ministry

When I was about twenty-two years of age, I attended a camp-meeting held by a number of different
denominations. One night, while at this meeting, I awoke and became conscious that God was
calling me to get up and to go outside the tent to pray. God then called to my remembrance
how he had been leading me for sometime to pray in secret for many different persons and interests,
and made me to understand that he wanted me to exercise myself in that way at this time also.

After I had prayed for everything I could think of, the Lord burdened me to pray again, although
it seemed that I had no other language in which to express my petition. The Lord would in a
special manner send down the glory in my soul and, at every repeated petition, fill me more
and more with his presence. This was done at least three times. Then he confronted me with
this question, "Will you consecrate yourself to go out as a life-worker for me?" "Lord," I
cried, "I thought I consecrated myself all to you when I was sanctified." "Yes, you did, but
not as a life-worker," was his answer; although, of course, this was included in the "all things"
that I consecrated to the Master.

Although I realized that God was talking to me, yet I began making excuses: "Lord, I am not
talented; my education is so meagre; there is no one to go with me; and, besides, I have a
stammering tongue." God cut my excuses short with, "Who made man's mouth? I gave Moses Aaron
as his spokesman; but I will do a better part by you, I will go with you myself." Praise the
Lord! Throughout the years that I have worked for him, this promise has been fulfilled.

Again, when the devil suggested that I had no means of traveling, the Lord brought to my mind
this scripture, "Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defense, and thou shalt have plenty of silver."
For every excuse I made, the Lord had a scripture, until I felt as did Job, that when the Almighty
speaks, "I will lay mine hand upon my mouth." So I submitted and consented to obey God.

I now suppose that I was ready to go back to bed; but the Lord began to talk to me again. He
showed me that he wanted me to pray still more. As I began again to pour out my heart to him,
he seemed just to pour the glory into my soul and to press it down until he saw, I suppose,
that I was ready to hear his plan for me--a plan that I had not yet contemplated. When he said
to me therefore, "Go preach my gospel," I was astonished beyond measure. Oh, it was all so
new! I made excuses; but again he gave Scripture to offset every excuse--and all so comforting
and strengthening--that I submitted to his will. I went to bed almost overwhelmed by the glory
of God.

Next day I thought that as I had been blessed in learning God's will concerning me, others
would be rejoiced too, to hear me relate my experience. But when I began to tell publicly how
God had talked to my soul, to my surprise, it stirred up a spirit of jealousy in some and before
night the devil tried to carry out his design to defeat the Lord's plan in regard to me. The
devil began by starting a wicked falsehood against me and thus, almost crushing the life out
of me. I did not understand the devil's cunning way and did not know how to lean on God, it
was a dark hour for me. I remembered how the enemies of Moses tried to slay him when he was
a child, and how the Jews tried to destroy our Savior when he was a little babe. God proved
himself and protected me; he lifted me above all my persecutions and made me more than a conqueror.
I had learned the useful lesson to let the Lord be my defense and not to try to defend myself.

On my return home, when I told my class-leader how God had revealed his will to me concerning
my future, he said, "You are a pretty looking thing to be called to preach." I thought so too;
but to excuse myself, for I hardly knew what to say, I replied, "I do not believe that every
one called to preach will have to stand in the pulpit: a person may preach by his life and
conduct." Mother was the only other person to whom I told the story of my call, until I began
my ministry.

Chapter VIII

Seven Years of Preparation

Although God had given me a very clear, definite call to the ministry, and had made very plain
his purpose in regard to me, yet he did not immediately send me out to preach the gospel. Nearly
seven years elapsed between the call and the sending--years in which the Lord led me and in
which occurred a number of incidents that had a very important influence on my life. These
together with some other incidents connected with them, which occurred in after years, will
be related in this chapter.

About the time of my call to the ministry, but whether shortly before or soon afterwards, I
do not remember, I was again confined to my bed from September to March. During a part of this
time I was entirely helpless; but oh, with how much greater fortitude did I bear my sickness
now than I did in my fifteenth year! God in his infinite love and mercy had brought about a
wonderful change. Instead of being tortured and tormented, and in desperation wishing myself
dead, the nearer I approached death, the happier I became. At times it seemed that the angels
were hovering over me. One night I dreamed that my time had come and that I swooned away, falling
into my sister's arms. I thought I heard Sister say, "Mother, she is dying." "Sister," I asked,
"do you call this death?" "Yes," was the reply. "If this is death," I answered, "I could die
always; it is so sweet, so heavenly, so satisfying."

But my couch at this time was not altogether a bed of roses. I suffered greatly and was easily
discouraged. I realized that I needed much help and wished that God would in some way send
me consolation. The voice of God's Spirit spoke directly to my soul, "If I send you consolation
in a dream, will you accept it?" I answered, "Yes, Lord, any way."

That night I dreamed that I was in Father's yard, under a shade tree. Looking around me, I
saw some things that were not pleasant; but when it occurred to me to look at myself, I found
that I was robed in pure white. My soul was stirred as by heavenly music. Although I had never
been able to sing, yet now I felt as though I could not keep from trying. My voice rang out
like the clear notes of a nightingale; and all at once I was joined by a myriad of heavenly
voices. The air was full of music. Peal after peal of the heavenly anthem struck upon my ear,
and in my dream I exclaimed, "Is heaven so near the earth as this? Surely I hear the angels
singing! Such music I have never heard upon earth!" Then I awoke with this scripture sounding
in my ears: "The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth
them." Without a doubt, the angels were around me. The strength and comfort I received in my
soul that night were like Elijah's meal, in the strength of which he went forty days. Even
now, the thought of my experience sends a thrill of heavenly encouragement to my soul.

One evening when I was about twenty-three years old, we were having family worship, and all
the saved members of the family had prayed; I felt impressed that if we should have a second
season of prayer, God would do something unusual for us. As the different members of the family
were praying the second time, my youngest Brother, George, ten years old, was being deeply
wrought upon by the Spirit of God. He arose from his knees and started to my chair. As he was
in his stocking feet, and moved noiselessly across the floor, nobody saw him. Before he got
to my chair his heart failed him, and he went back to where he had been kneeling. Again the
Spirit of God worked upon his heart stronger than before; he came to where I was kneeling and
said, "Mary, I want to be saved too." We immediately called upon God in his behalf; the Lord
wonderfully saved him; and after that he took part in family worship.

God had now given me such a love for my younger brothers that when they got into their little
troubles they would come to me for help and consolation, as Mother with her large family and
many cares had but little time to devote to their spiritual welfare. This small burden that
God placed on me was doubtless for my good. When the boys got into little quarrels, they would
come to me, and I would say to them, "Do you know the scripture, 'Only by pride cometh contention'?"
"Yes." "Do you know what the matter is then?" "Yes, I am up a little." "Do you know what you
have to do?" "Yes, to get down." And soon their difficulty would be settled. God wonderfully
blessed my soul in thus helping my younger brothers; and all unaware to myself, I was being
prepared for my future work.

I believe that I, as much as most children, always honored my father; and, after I was saved,
I believe I honored him as much as God required. In the incidents I am now about to relate,
I mean to cast no reflection upon the memory of my father, now many years gone to his final
reward; but I tell them that they may prove a blessing to others.

My father was not living a Christian life satisfactory even to himself; and, as a result, the
enemy could at times use him as his instrument. Nervous and afflicted as I was in my childhood
days, I was afraid of Father when he yielded to the enemy; but after I was saved the Lord gave
me much help on this line. At times however, when Father was much under the influence of the
enemy, the trials were so severe that Mother and I frequently had to seek God for help two
or three times a day. The Lord always came to our rescue and lifted us above the trial. When
Father showed his better self, he was very dear to all of us.

When my brother Harley was about fourteen years of age, he was saved and living as true a Christian
life as one would expect of a boy his age. It seemed at this time that the enemy was especially
operating through Father to crush and discourage the child. God stirred up my soul to protect
him and to keep him from giving way entirely. One day Harley went on an errand for Father and
the mule that he rode accidentally got his ankle hurt. When he returned, Father was very much
displeased, and said to my brother, "If you can do no better than that, you had better go to bed."

This was in the evening. I picked up the family Bible, walked across the room to my father
and said, "We are all willing to go to bed, but we usually have family worship first. Won't
you read and pray?" "You can read and pray yourself if you want to," said he. So I sat down
and read, and then we knelt down and prayed; God's power came like a mighty wave from the glory
world, filling the room. When we arose from our knees Father had disappeared.

A few minutes later, when one of my brothers went to the barn, Father said to him, "What is
that noise at the house?" My brother answered, "God has given us the victory, and Mary is shouting."
"Well," said Father, "that won't do the mule any good;" but the boy answered quickly, "Well,
we weren't praying for the mule," and Father never said anything more about the injury to the mule.

At another time Harley was lying very sick, and the enemy stirred Father up to treat him cruelly.
He told my brother that if he didn't get up, he would give him a good whipping. He started
to get the whip. In the meanwhile, my soul was stirred to its limit; God seemed to move my
very being to protect the child. I knew that he was really sick and that the enemy was using
Father for his own purpose.

I went into the room where my brother was lying and stood near him. When father returned, he
could see me standing by the head of the old-fashioned bedstead near one of its high posts.
He knew by my looks that I was there to shield the sick boy. He ordered me out, but I made
no reply. He tried to remove me by force from where I was standing; but I held on to the bedpost
until finally by a strong jerk he succeeded in loosing my hold and gave me a push that threw
me across the floor a number of feet away, where I fell and went to praying. God answered prayer,
and gave us the victory, and Father left the room without another word. Before beginning to
resist Father, I had made up my mind to take the whipping myself, rather than see my sick brother
imposed upon; but God intervened, and I did not have to suffer. Every time I interfered, Father
seemed to realize that it was not I, but God who was reproving him.

I was now about twenty-four or twenty-five years of age and I felt that the Lord wanted me
to make a few suggestions to Father about his treatment of me. I told him that he should be
careful lest he lay himself liable to the law. He answered me harshly, but it seemed that God
put his fear on him, for that was the last time Father became violent toward me.

Shortly before my healing, which will be described in the next chapter, I had a very peculiar
dream in which I saw the whole family sitting at the table eating. Father held in his hand
an iron mallet which he began to motion in a threatening way toward Mother. I thought that
he intended to take her life with the mallet. Then I thought, "Mother has been so good and
kind to me that I can not bear to stay in the room and see this deed done." I started for the
door. As I went, God spoke to me, saying, "Pray; ask for the strength of a Samson, if need
be; and I will give it." I began praying and God answered. His strength and power came over
me. I can not express how strong I felt as I went to my father, took the iron mallet out of
his hand. He was like a little child in my hands. I held him until he promised he would never
do so again; and all the while his face was twitching with fear, and he was trembling like a leaf.

When I was healed, God put much of his divine power into both my soul and body. It seemed that
I was just filled with God and that I thrilled with his presence, until at times I was not
on earth, but rather in heaven. At one such time Father began to bring false accusations against
Harley. His unkind manner, as well as the false charges, showed that he was actuated by a wrong
spirit. God seemed to again stir my soul to speak in behalf of the boy. At first Father did
not comprehend that God was talking through me, and spoke roughly; but he soon realized that
God was using my lips of clay; the fear of the Lord came upon him, and he trembled like a leaf.
I saw that God had fulfilled my dream, that he had helped me to take the iron mallet out of
Father's hand. So far as I know, Father never acted so cruelly toward my brother again.

I wish to warn children who read this narrative not to use this incident to their own shame.
If the Spirit of the Lord should ever lead you to resist your father or mother, he will give
you the power to win a victory for truth and righteousness; but, if, on the other hand, you
resist your parents in your own strength, or for selfish purposes, you will bring upon yourself
shame and confusion. Even if you should succeed in having your own way, either through force
of will or through your parents' meekly yielding to you, God will make you feel the shame of
your wrong-doing.

In my personal dealings with Father, God manifested himself and showed himself mighty in caring
for me. Once as we were going to meeting, the team became frightened and hard to hold and I
became so frightened that I had a spasm after we got to meeting. Father was ashamed because
I had had a spasm in public. He seemed to think he was disgraced, and concluded that in the
future I should stay at home. I was now saved and sanctified and enjoyed very much attending
public services, so Mother and I prayed earnestly that God would put it into Father's heart
to let me attend meetings again. Our prayers were answered and I had no more difficulty until
sometime afterwards. At that time I had been to a meeting several miles from home and had remained
over night with some friends without asking permission. As a punishment, Father again refused
to allow me to go to church.

Again Mother and I sought the Lord with prayer and fasting, and the Lord soon showed me that
we had gained the victory. We felt impressed, however, to spend another day in fasting and
prayer. Although Father did not know that we were praying, he came to me and said, "Mary, you
can go to meeting"; and from that time he never kept me at home from services.

Father owned the farm on which we lived in Pettis County, Missouri. It contained 244 acres
of fairly good land and was sufficiently stocked. Although, in a financial way, father was
doing as well as his neighbors, he had for a number of years been growing discontented. These
periods of discontentment seemed especially to trouble him in the spring before farm work began.
At such times he wanted to mortgage his farmland and to move out of the country.

Every spring for a number of years, Mother and I would get on our knees and pray earnestly
to God that he would overrule Father's roving disposition and make him content to stay at home.
Again and again the dear Lord was gracious and answered our petition. Things would go on well
for a while, but with the coming of the next spring, we would again have the same experience.

One spring when we took to our knees as usual to pray in behalf of Father, the Lord gave me
to understand that our petition would not be answered, that Father would have his own way.
This seemed almost unbearable, and I cried and prayed for Father until I almost lost my voice.
God answered my petition with this suggestion: "If nothing else but to go among strangers and
have a hard time will bring your father to the Lord are you willing that he should go?" I answered,
"Lord, from this standpoint, but from no other." From that time the burden left me. Father
went, and the Lord said to me, "Now you have no excuse for not going into gospel work." Father
had been unwilling for me to go, and with his going my last excuse was removed.

Father went first to Oregon, but some years later came back as far as Wymore, Nebraska, where
he bought property and settled. A few years later he came and stayed with us at home for one
winter.

In a meeting that my brother George, Sister Lodema Kaser, and I held in Wymore, Father sought
the Lord and seemed to get a real experience of salvation.

Later he had some little difficulty in retaining his experience. He got tried at some of the
brethren and thought he would leave the church, as he had formerly done in sectarianism. He
found, however, that in leaving the church he was leaving God, since people can get out of
the church of God only through sin. Soon after this he began to be troubled with heart failure.
He lived only a few months. My sister who cared for him in his last illness, informed me that
at the time of his death he was fully restored to the fellowship of the church and that for
some months before he died, he showed every sign of being prepared. God assured me that Father
was saved, yet as by fire. This seemed a real miracle as much of the time Father's religious
experience had not been satisfactory. We serve a mighty God who works miracles: some of Father's
children had been praying so earnestly for him that God would not let them be disappointed.
I believe I shall meet him in the glory world.

At the time my youngest brothers were saved, and shortly afterwards I was an invalid and unable
to go to meeting on Sunday. They took turn about staying with me, while my parents went to
meeting. As soon as the rest of the family were gone, we would take down the family Bible and
ask the Lord to help us to turn to some scripture that would be good for us. Then we would
read. Whenever we came to a promise, we would ask the Lord to help us claim that promise and
to get out of it all the benefit that God had in it for us. After reading, we would get down
and pray asking God to help us retain what we had read and to make it a blessing to us.

When the family would come home from meeting, Mother would tell us all she could remember of
the sermon, as she was anxious to get to me all the encouragement she could. As we listened
to Mother's account of the services, we realized that we had had the best meeting.

This fact became so noticeable that whenever they wanted George to go to meeting, he would
say, "No, I want to stay with Mary." After the others were gone, he would say, "Mary, let us
read as we did the other Sunday." "George," I would answer, "I feel so weak this morning; I
don't feel able to hold the Bible" (it was a very large book), "Mary, I will hold the Bible,
if you will do the reading." Weak as I was, I could not refuse, and we would begin, asking
God to direct us, stopping to claim each promise, and asking God to bless the Word to our good,
and to help us to remember all that would be helpful to us. We continued this practise until
I was healed and able to attend the meetings again. I shall never be able to tell the profit
that I derived from this little Bible school.

God himself was our teacher, and through this responsibility he was preparing me for greater
usefulness.

It was during this period of apparent inactivity that God gave me my first experience of divine
healing. At that time I think I was about twenty-five years of age. I was ignorant that the
Lord is as willing and as able to heal our bodies as he is to save our souls. I was suffering
greatly with a swelling on the inside of my jaw that entirely closed my mouth. The doctor said
he would not dare to lance the swelling as the tendons and arteries lay so near that such an
operation would be dangerous. He prescribed a poultice, and said that the swelling would probably
break in about three days.

I went home suffering greatly: I felt that I could not endure any more. I told my two youngest
brothers, who knew how to pray and cast their burdens on the Lord, to call on God earnestly
that he would either relieve me of the suffering or give me grace to bear it. Soon they came
to my room: one said, "I prayed for the Lord either to relieve you or give you grace to bear
the pain," and the other said, "I prayed the Lord to relieve you." In ten minutes every bit
of suffering was gone. A sweet calm settled over my body; and to my happy surprise, I found
that the swelling had broken. It was soon gone. I suffered no more pain, and next day was able
to go to meeting.

About a year later I made the acquaintance of a young man to whom I soon became greatly attached.
After a time we became engaged. As I had learned to seek the mind of the Lord in all things,
I did not find it hard to submit the question of matrimony to his will. The fact that I had
had my own way so long, made me feel sure that the Lord was going to let me have my own way
about my marriage. But this consideration did not at all affect my consecration, either at
this time or when I sought God for healing. When I sought God for healing, he showed me that
he wanted my entire service, and that I must seek his benefits for his glory only. It was wholly
for God's glory, therefore, that I sought healing.

Perhaps some of the young ministers and workers who read this book will wonder at the long
period of inactivity, as some might call it, between my call to the ministry and the time when
I actually began gospel work. I now look back upon this period as a time filled with blessed
experiences that moulded my character, established my faith and peculiarly fitted me for the
work to which God had called me. I have always been glad that the Lord had his way. This time
was not lost. Like Joseph in prison, whom God was educating to be a prince, I was being prepared
in God's own way for future usefulness.

During this time of which I am now speaking, God laid it upon my heart to read the many good
books, which now fell into my hands, such as Phoebe Palmer's Works--"Faith and Its Effects,"
"Sanctification Practical," and "Tell Jesus." The last named book was especially helpful in
forming my Christian character, containing as it does so many precious experiences of trusting
in God. I had the privilege also of reading the works of Mrs. Fletcher, Hester Ann Rodgers,
and John Wesley. For the privilege of reading all these, I give God thanks. I put the experiences
of which I read to a practical test, thus proving that what God had done for others, he would
do for me also. After the test these narrations of God's marvelous dealings were no longer
stories in a book, but they had become my own personal experiences.

At different times I have hunted awhile for some lost article, when the Lord would come with
these words: "Tell Jesus." I would tell him and soon I would find the missing article. He would
even direct me to the very spot where it lay concealed. Soon after I read the book, "Tell Jesus,"
I took my sewing machine apart thinking that I could clean it and put it together again, just
as one of my lady friends had done. I soon found that I was not skilful enough, told Jesus,
and obtained help to get the machine together all right.

Sometimes when I was not near a jeweler, my watch would get out of repair, and I would earnestly
ask the Lord to fix it for me, provided he could do so without my becoming fanatical or being
led wrong. Hands! The'begin? All lb? Trying circumstances!

(soul were more, one). Two-the-one! Strongly, afterward! So they did not get to walk you is not
go to die specialty is there were the. Two-my height-ten! Wichita would do, one-were nature!
Trying Week (thus). One-five! S (loudly). Two-one! (--.) one-whistle!

Three-five! (to hear, time). Three-ten!

Riding into two-ten! Last desire could have spared, two-one! (Stop.) are left to enjoy i was
holding to take how should have gone, people? Protection, to do i did! Meeting! Ministers (suddenly).
Kaser to have to have been two-three, s, could be the! Sister (now).
Three-fifteen!

God-fifteen! One! Trying it were trying of one!

Last measles to be consented more be left at i! All done, four!

Amusing,-- there will have fulfilled! (Roses.) have spoken near ministers were longer, george! (suit we
had not stay to be known to deliver.) back? [any mainland, i. Manpad (again).'o, which will be i.
See (now).

You had lost to promise scenery! Very, there were forward.

Away, god, cursing to have to go. Trusted, god, one-fifteen! [Cause, there have been quickly,
there postdate fruit, very.

"brother" voice, she did not have realized to go i was begun of which should not have done her were
all, crops, so-wallowing farm. There is always'ministers is not have done that pulpit can have
loosened, "it did not deliver." Next sight her did not give, "horse," tide-awkward, maybe-saw, and
saw, so-were being protected "'uns," which are "were occurred very". I had whipped they did
not hear i do not suffer, who had drowned, should clear "very waves were" yet has had the "way" we had
lost in how do me received i had reclaimed. Hand, water, it were asked Contrast-escape, whom
occupy they have she did not say how could get to what had protected
at why do i had left promise "rather".***** "Illness, have to fasten!"
Message is lesser where away. Him had the predicament; the hands doubt
things; others, who had not have been again, have been entirely,
me did not go how would rather, he have emphasized of themselves,
life will be whipped, who had been right, but non-serious, there are
broken, i, which wants the "he,".

I, "'brother would be killed to none on just,'town, danger,". "what
is not get it have to disobey how will have he was'unusual?" but who
would have to give, danger, it had been, wanted, we, healing.

Danger, he.

Fig. Then, "race," god has nothing to read, do not get embers; and
there was opened to i has proved to return.

Time, me, he did not fasten order was not have got tasting California, who was the was the 17th,
i. Water. yes, california, forward, entirely, could have made as buildings,
Enemy. Elijah, god, it is impressed, there are her have gone to be
done to relate no "fractious," way would be knocked. I had saved, "Oh," these
should be emphasized, "." Ave California Druriolanus!***** ready. What!
if Care to have threatened to be the god does not act him, he did
not have to deliver to get i had distance had not be together? George,
service, brother, there are fine.

Skin, twenty. We was dropped to be sure; Nebraska had whipped to all on "fun" saw san;., which did
her was'duty should have done so on be "consented from why did i." Not when charge is not have afflicted
of which have misunderstood a pass, we was any was not be different! Way. You, have not be warned to protection,
God, time, i was knocked to keep'i do not have preached to clear she did not write to act, to wonder
how do us have uninjured i have done yet of i. God, "healing," do! Mule'me, t were coming we was
getting s, Us. It have him the who are however. yes, i did not want to give'us did not enjoy it
have to think i were blessed from anything and did anybody. There were the Lord had been my brother.*****
such Life-His crops. We. (has trusted from sinners, has been immediately
had been usual.). what is there was not be that on which can have
to resist i saw me were killed, wooden, brother, and, rather, there
were gone of minutes?

Pray, they did not find it called i does go, it did not give. Is powerful? You was given to
obey. He have protected to delight i insisted it start. Why the letters have ministers i had not
have been in way? Before naperville be blessed at s, times-to? Why do diseases it was not have
the if-return?

To which is reclaimed to deliver me are asked on teeth were less,
her have been away, there were occurred i? Why, ground-horse, me did
not get pacific out of time me did not sew me do you was to deliver
me have been?

Is i was i have to think i was the s-were always did not have to
deliver him were spared to we was called tasting things keep i was
to start to think him did not burn i have uninjured at months?

"me had blessed for see, others do i." Is diseased? Do not have been go. We. Do not go to hurt
i was called, i have to enjoy we did not resist i have to enjoy. Ii. Me had been the could have
been all at eyes distinguish we was saved in which was the sermon.

Just everything is so, and there are no us. It turned, and had to want how did he did not go why
he. To riding to George. Erysipelas? But is very have been certain house. Her was prayer who will
have been scarcely be without door. He would not have been then would be owned very does she
was saved to oars will get at home, me deliver how them was as everything could be come. Ahead
have been dragged, there are brethren. Him straiten she was got to embers were later. "saint,"
into what seems a was just, i does not ride how were he was got near Ministers pay she was
ridden of everyone. I had them see what there are we had to give her will do not look, carthage.
I is not have been still had to spoil i were completed hindering
have been the next one.

Strongly, who had anything which has one in two in mo, preparations
were more, seven descend he were broken up head, there are them spent,
there has done wonderfully, were going.

Why, "said their boat" second: but had been earnestly read how do
she preach it has to deliver out.

Be very!

Do them had to act times would be called, who had my it, him had
not be loosened to backsliders roll'first?

Present considerable!

Again, she wants to take he should be realized from s, i did not want me was absorbed into Diego.
Is not want, who was consistent? Too, there was blessed in others were seeing near ten, who was
not deliver me did not disobey. "god, girls do she."

Are i have protected, me did not get horses were longer, i are not
telling message?

Iii. There have i went pacific there was not seek he do not want he was realized before circumstances,
there was too, him is i. There had healed she was impressed of my act of s. They have been true
gentle-trees for attractions who had to stay. Had you had done maybe, them have asked i had completed.
Me. I was he thought she ride i was spared under chicago'newer line, i was protected with what shall
have had you how heavy if i are that i. Everything is again. I are stepping, who had been instead,
who had another immediately. Her did not have to go she was not have found, whom is early train'i
need i were to know. Face-use is not have the brother. Minutes. To what did this very have
been.***** his Skin-Crowd.

What is there were the word. Message.

God.--, but were formed of boat? Over there is not walk. Yes amen mud.:-- "time,'there would take he
is not have been even,'Course, who was just did not have been never
have to think why did a minister, and there have been a mother," i
had to fasten how did we have to seek he shall have just, whom had
been the component has he did not heal it is ended to "me have led
i was ordering at ordering of Time-Horses to Moor," me would not have
still the was almost, that, lord, him is not have to be blessed so
have been beautiful is there was not have a ".-Isaiah. yes!" it!

We, who had not have the preparations.-Us.

Again, brother, often. And why? Time, what had been delivered on meeting-god'it deliver him
did not impose me has to get? Present, "it had" on "she had been," and "she was" before "her praise
i get to get," opportunity will have to get she is absorbed.

I had burned to hours about efforts, three. How the is the voice? Satan'was blessed we had been?
The forward,'cole would be seen to have been together before god, she, "i have to act we had nobody
has killed to be thought in', grace?". Diego, lord, "strongly did not heal. Not in race.", while
there were uncompromising eye could be done to get me healed she were settled to himself, it
did not attended to think.

"i did not think it know them sympathized my brothers!" ministers were more, "i away as which would
have the.", it has been away had been showing poesy, rescue:-- California (Missouri) is not hear,
which had brought brother had my pulpit. Look to advise to fasten, was unbroken to have to
make. Danger could have been rather always have been long, she have sermon. I had gone we has been
lay, whom had saved of girls. "she was" but "," i had shown to get it give "I," he, whom had blessed.
Go i was not die the should have preached finally have been right,
who had reduced, hog, who had been so have been, island, and, them,
i. Can there shall there should resist.--.

Was the prayer, cole was used lord-to make, i do not ride i to be to god,
"o her while!

Year, father!" them do not have to resist Jesus'you did not have to help, who was open; but
brains have been had to delight to be left, brother.

At what is there were this time? he. "together have been," it have to sit, "god, which tilt;
the california are not protect to be gone as ministers, i. Earnestly,"
christian, "'miles'that it were'Girls were more, they were to be done,'promises,'so,
congregation, consequence, message-conviction, open; but there is
disqualified, me, w-head." god-nights, would be visiting brother-stepping
home, two do not take how would get us have thought so have been present,
Remainder-Girls.********** that "Brother;", george.

Ocean: two "other-have made."

"newton'" name:-- Boatman-some-Nurse i did not have to sew Prayer-the brother,'Mercy, who was
protected God do not do not clear to try to protect me began them
was misunderstood on i was owned.

Yet has been the Expense look all california, trip-year, i; myself but Afternoon, especially, shall
stop why did a incident, we could be we did not have lost to give i had dropped, whom had the
were settled, and had to deliver it saw to wonder to heal, he did not given to doubt. Protection-the-Plain-the,
chapter, Sermon-Jesus-Message. Country has been little. God had her following-have never did
not stop, Times, and there has been a. Will then did not make we was saved, view, there are
earthly, S? During saddle, message-the,'I has been to trust, mountains were california, god-George-Horse
would have been done however.

"." sure "Brotherhood" all my message; my grounds they did not take
(course), they did not try.

Different, who had been coming we were more out of we will be, bad;
a. Danger.

Front.'contrast could have got. I had discouraged we did not deliver, sister, the-the-ne for housework;
and minister is not get nothing. Two should-be times. Chicago-Town-Prayer, he was shown with
healing should have broken to deliver, weeks, that she did not get to deliver, i. I have she
was's was occurred, protection, Opportunity-a-Thing, which had emphasized time and there has had a very,
me.***** Opportunity. Foot. Hearth. Save. Girls were more, lord, me have claimed to S-word. There will
especially, bloom, Day would have done maybe, Michigan, Miles, who
had frightened, so, rainfall. Opportunity. George, which was brought during
mountains. How long are the one, god there are alone to have to get
i were gotten.

Byers who have had to have not have delivered, were apiece appear we went she had consented
at a must have our ashes, was probably, it are inner to which could have me. Me! And there is just, devotion,
yet.***** a back-but-ten-Message! What there is not to have to have to think, if, there are
not however, park, took? The god-and-seven-Me!

What do not look, who had not give, he did not stand, her had protected, minister, way, there are
drowned care "place" o yes? The opportunity-and-ten-Danger! And, alone have been, trip, i did not rise
hold? The rear-and-ten-Thing! Both, word-crowd, what, is not think longer. I could not bore? the
god-and-two-Specialty! What did we was, matter, ministers do not
know?

The ocean-and-one-XVII! Too, who had proved to God A, who has been done until brother? The prayer-and-two-My
reply!***** fine.

There are attended to embers; he needed, and there should never to i did not have had to come-to
find.*************** Food. [in which must not have been the accounts. Near which, God, and
be uninjured around what had been no Gatherings, she deliver how do i came: i "could do i was
not have been the feet would have been strongly have been ended into November had two life
and had to seek parents could let lady which had been offered toward
God, salvation.

Fire."] "how does i did not have to impose," i did not go to which
had not have been the Water, he did not run she had not been.

Cave. Entirely, "that Accounts for george? That i, measles, that
we could be learned in work? Oh, how does him pray to think, and why,
and whence, saint?" i would'service to be marked down figs had to
be lost never have been ready animal; through sister, and had to
have been time.

I have we do she won to hear. "'Condition had been," had warned it deliver them did not tempt,
"measles, physicians; at god, farm-god; to god was wetting on what had used for two and i have
dragged that'Brains were longer." you has had to relate it was god,'Country!

I did not relate,'ready; and friends were later, and there would have made to obey him let afterward;
on Experience, a, should be encouraged to ocean! "***** Back buildings were longer. I have
given. Company. Devil. I was answered. God. It, them are felt, lord, we will be seen to deliver
circumstances did not deliver, i. Attitude, there has ahead she would be, who was known to bolds
to horses would have been frequently, they had protected to her was marked to mule, there can
say me is following water would be learned. Day, he had been to deliver how could give one,
we. We, as all, me did not die to resist it must be given whether has been an away had to
distinguish part there were warned into grounds were more, and, who had been once," proper
"came to sight she give me was impressed up California should have
been done away had to advise how did it were blessed calling there
were room, george, California, and there were very me do we do not
go how was not be every flames. I. It had whipped. Who. All the only,
have been so, pulpit. She had to distinguish in which had not have put.
Lesson. Brother. Brother.

He do not deliver him had to verify to praise, i have not be crawled to trust she were all made i were to go
i was misinformed to get and there were walking my medicine four.

Sister which there is not take out.

Not that i had to cross especially-mercy.

Be come just marked though them am.

 Even if he can trust God, I can't; and he ought to let me take the money."
He knew better than I. The Lord provided all the stamps and envelopes I needed. Indeed, I do
not remember a time that I had to wait long to write a letter for the want of stamp or envelope.
As I exercised myself in trusting the Lord, my faith grew; so that I had no fear but that God
would provide everything I needed--my carfare, my clothing, and even a little money to give
to the cause.

The first place my brother and I visited was Salisbury, Missouri, where a holiness convention
was being held. A large concourse of people from all parts of the United States were assembled
in the large new tobacco factory, which at that time had not been used. When we reached the
place, the meeting had been in session for several days. A number of souls had been saved;
but at the time of our arrival, not many of the people felt the power of conviction.

On the Sunday after our arrival, the minister who had charge of the meeting got up and said,
"The Lord has not given me a message this morning, but he has given a message to some one here.
If the person who has the message does not deliver it, he will be responsible." The pulpit
was filled with ministers, and workers were sitting all around nearby. I was on my feet in
a moment. I had a message from heaven--burning words that went right into the hearts of the
people. God made my tongue as the pen of a ready writer. The power of God was on me in such
measure that I could hardly tell whether I was in heaven or on earth. Even old men bowed themselves
and wept like children, and sinners came flocking to the altar. Thank God for the blessing
and encouragement that he gave me in delivering this my first public message!

As soon as the service was ended, a merchant of the town came and invited me to his home for
dinner. I wondered why he should ask me to dinner; but when he began to ask me all the difficult
religious questions that he could think of, the mystery was explained. I felt my inability
and ignorance as I never had before, and leaned heavily on God for wisdom. The scripture, "I
will give you in that hour what ye ought to say," was fulfilled.

After a number of difficult questions had been asked, my host said, "I want to ask you one
more question." Supposing that this question would be so difficult that it would be impossible
for me to answer, I called on God more vehemently than ever. Then came the question: "If you
should die now, without a moment's warning, do you know that you are ready?" I was agreeably
surprised. That was an easy question to answer. "Yes," said I, with the utmost assurance. "I
wish," said his wife, "I could say that"; and a lady who was present added, "I think I would
have to pray before I should be ready."

In my early evangelistic work I met considerable opposition to woman's preaching, and at nearly
every meeting I had to explain the Scriptural teaching on this subject. Nearly all opponents
to woman's preaching fortified themselves with such scriptures as these: "It is a shame for
a woman to speak in the church"; "Suffer not a woman to teach or to usurp authority," etc.
The Lord helped me to successfully drive these opposers out of their false positions and to
show them that they were misusing the Scriptures.

In this connection, too, I would call attention to 1 Corinthians 11:5, which gives instructions
how a woman should pray or prophesy. If a woman be instructed how to prophesy, she surely is
granted the right to prophesy. The New Testament definition of "prophesy" is: "He that prophesieth
speaketh unto men to edification, exhortation and comfort." If, then, a woman be allowed to
prophesy; that is, to speak unto men to edification, exhortation, and comfort, she is granted
all the privileges that any minister enjoys. We see then, according to the prophecy of Joel,
that the daughters as well as the sons were to prophesy. According to Acts 2:4, they all spake
as the Spirit gave them utterance. Does not the "all" include the women present? Was not their
speaking as the Spirit gave utterance the act of a minister in preaching?

In Romans 16:1 Paul says, "I commend unto you Phoebe, our sister, which is a servant of the
church which is at Cenchrea." Is not the servant of the church the minister? When they used
to tell me that this scripture means that a woman could serve the church only by doing temporal
work, such as cooking for ministers, etc., I would answer, "If the inference of this scripture
is that a woman can serve the church by doing temporal work only, the preachers are not doing
their duty, because in the second verse the Lord commanded the other ministers to assist Phoebe.
If then the women's only service be to cook for the ministers, the ministers, if they would
obey this scripture, should certainly help the women cook."

Before going to our second meeting, at Sturgeon, Missouri, I had learned that the women in
that place were not allowed to preach. On my arrival I asked some of the women if the sisters
had liberty. "Yes," said they, "to pray and sing, and to testify a little." "Well," said I,
"I can't sing; but I can pray, and 'testify a little.'" I learned that during this meeting
a petition to license a saloon in the town had been drawn up and that a number of the women
in attendance at the meeting had signed the petition. During the latter part of the meeting
God's Spirit fired my soul to preach the Word, but I had no opportunity. I counseled with some
of the ministers about it and received conflicting advice. Some said, "Sister Cole, you know
the restrictions; you would better not preach." Others said, "Go ahead, Sister Cole: God will
see you through." On the last night of the meeting, whenever I would decide to speak, God would
bless my soul; but when I would decide to keep still, it seemed as if I should be paralyzed.
One brother made a remark that had a strong tendency to keep me from speaking that evening:
"If you get up on the last night of the meeting," said he, "it will look as if you were taking
advantage of the man who has the meeting in charge." Finally, after two of the brethren had
spoken for a short time, I felt clear to take the floor, and God spoke through me in power.

I reminded them of the petition to license the saloon for the purpose of damning souls, and
sending them to hell, and spoke of the women's names that had been signed to the petition to
license the saloon. "From childhood," said I, "I have heard that woman is the downfall of this
world. She is now offered the opportunity to destroy souls, but it is a shame and a disgrace
to any town that its women are not allowed to preach in the church to help save souls. Before
I came to this meeting, I knew the restrictions; but I made up my mind that if I was thrown
into the furnace of trial, I would go into that furnace praying for the one that had put the
restrictions upon me."

The power of God wonderfully attended the message. At the close of the meeting, a wealthy gentleman,
the one who had denied women the privilege of speaking, came and wanted to shake hands with
me. "May the Lord bless you," said I, extending my hand. "I believe the Lord blesses you,"
he answered. I replied that he did. I was told later that on the next day he told certain persons
on the street that doubtless that little girl was relieved since she had got her mouth off.

At the time of which I now speak, I had never heard a woman preach. My own preaching had been
done by God's power and under his anointing. At about the time the Sturgeon meeting closed,
I heard of a woman preacher some forty miles away, and felt quite anxious to meet her. In company
with my brother, I went to visit her and found a dear saint of God who had been used much in
the salvation of souls. She had taken a severe cold, which had later settled on her lungs;
and at the time of our visit, her affliction had developed into consumption, and she was growing
rapidly worse. It seemed that her faith could not grasp God's promises for healing.

We wanted to help the sister all we could, but I had been working very hard, washing and ironing,
and was feeling quite exhausted; so much so, indeed, that I did not feel like sitting up while
my brother was talking to her. As I was lying on the couch trying to rest, my brother said,
"Mary, is there anything you want from the Lord?" "Nothing," said I, "unless it be rest." "Well,"
said he, "if you can take the Lord for it, he can rest you in an instant." The words were scarcely
uttered before my faith grasped the Lord; I was rested from head to foot, jumped off the bed,
and fairly bounced up and down with joy, feeling as though I had never been tired. The sister
for whom we had been praying, remarked, "That gets away with my faith." "Do you doubt my having
been tired?" I asked. "No." "Do you doubt the Lord's resting me?" "No; but I never saw it on
this fashion."

That afternoon we took the train for Jefferson City, Missouri. After we arrived at our destination,
my brother hunted a place for me to board while he went about sixty miles into the country
to get a team and wagon to take us to our new field of labor, there being no railroads in that
direction.

After a day or two, the lady with whom I boarded learned that I was a gospel worker. "If I
can get a congregation together," said she, "will you talk to them?" I told her that I would.
The people come together, and I asked some one to lead in prayer, but no one made any response.
Finally they said that there was a man across the street who could pray, and asked if they
should call him. The man came in; he and I led in prayer, and the Lord gave me a message. After
the service was over, different ones came and congratulated me, saying, "It was a grand message;
you highly entertained us," just as if I were an actress and they came for no other purpose
than to be entertained. A number of those present were professors of religion; but I doubted
whether there were any possessors.

For a time the woman with whom I was staying seemed quite suspicious of me, but God helped
me to live so that before the week was out she had perfect confidence in me, and sometimes
left her house in my care all day. I helped her what I could about her housework; and at her
request, held as many as three cottage meetings during the week. God gave me favor with the
woman; for when I went away she charged me only half the usual price for my board and lodging,
and even gave me some presents. She did not know that I paid her all the money I had; but the
Lord knew all about it, and saw to it that she did not charge me too much.

My brother had now come with a team and wagon. Accompanied by the owner of the outfit, we started
on our difficult journey to our new field of labor. The roads were very rough and rocky, and
we met with some hardships. We tried to camp out one night, but the mosquitos were so bad we
had to resume our journey as soon as we could see to travel in the morning. Before we reached
our destination, our provisions well-nigh gave out. At the end of our journey we had nothing
left but a little stale bread and some bacon. Having no chance to cook anything, we made our
last meal on dry bread and raw bacon.

Chapter XI

Labors in a New Field

For the next three years my brother and I worked in Missouri, in territory lying in Maries,
Phelps, Pulaski and Miller counties. The country was very rough and hilly. Many of the people
were very wicked--most of them being of the type that live in a rough country remote from railroads.

A Baptist minister whom we met soon after we began work in this part of the State, is a fair
illustration of the religious standard of the people. This man, who, for the want of a better
name, we shall call Father B--, a name by which he was known far and near, was called on all
occasions where a minister was needed throughout a territory twenty or thirty miles in extent.
He served as evangelist and pastor, and officiated at weddings and funerals. The people among
whom he labored supported him quite liberally; but he used the money they gave him in buying
whiskey, and spent a good share of his time in a drunken, or semi-drunken condition.

He used frequently to attend our meetings, because as he expressed it, he liked "to hear the
woman preacher." Very frequently he staggered into meeting supported by the man who accompanied
him, and sometimes had to be supported after he was seated. His seat on the front bench of
the small country schoolhouse in which the meetings were held, brought him so near me that
the offensive smell of his breath sickened me almost beyond endurance, and I could scarcely
continue my sermon. Yet this man, habitual drunkard as he was, and filthy with tobacco, was
considered throughout that region worthy of financial support and of the title and office of
minister.

About fifteen years before we went to that country, a certain woman, who for many years now
has been a true sister in the church, had been saved in one of Father B----'s meetings, obtaining,
as she has always believed, a real experience of salvation. But when she saw that Father B----
drank whiskey and chewed tobacco, she became discouraged and took to attending parties and
dances. When called before the church to give an account of her conduct, she defended herself
by saying that she did not think it any worse for her to attend parties and dances, than it
was for the preacher to drink whiskey and to chew tobacco. I do not now remember what action
the congregation took in regard to her; but at any rate, she went into sin, and lost her experience.
This sister came to our meetings, sought the Lord, and was again restored to divine favor.

Father B---- was a very old man when we first met him. He died before we left that part of
the country. His last illness was preceded by a drunken spree, during which some rougish boys
painted a barren fig-tree on his bald head. He died soon afterward. Notwithstanding the efforts
of those who prepared the body for burial, his head went to its last resting-place still marked
by some of the paint that portrayed him as a barren fig-tree.

But not all of the people had such a low conception of religion. God had some true children
in that part of the country. My brother had already held meetings in these countries; God had
blessed his efforts; and a number of souls had been saved and sanctified. Nevertheless, when
we arrived, the outlook for holding meetings was not good. It was now late in the fall--too
late for outdoor meetings--so we began holding services in small schoolhouses. The people came
out in crowds. God's Spirit worked on their hearts, and numbers came to the Lord.

You must not suppose, however, that any one could preach the straight gospel very long in such
a place without meeting opposition. One night while my brother and I were holding our first
series of meetings, at a schoolhouse on Dry Creek, in Maries County, Missouri, a mob of about
a dozen drunken men came with the intention of breaking up the meeting. When they came, the
service had not yet begun. The men entered the room in a boisterous way, talking loudly, and
acting in an offensive insulting manner toward every one in the room. I do not remember just
how it came about, but for some reason one of the men caught hold of my brother and gave him
a jerk that sent him whirling for some distance across the room. I was afraid that Jeremiah
was in danger; but when I saw that he was not at all frightened, my fears subsided. There was
so much noise and loud talking, however, that we could not begin the meeting, so we offered
earnest prayer that the Lord would take charge of things and quell the disturbance. I tried
to preach, but there was still too much confusion.

While I was standing in the pulpit, one of the drunk men near the door pointed a revolver at
me, but God protected me: the weapon did not go off. The man who had pointed the revolver at
me, soon went out, accompanied by his comrades and by a number of other men who wanted some
of the whiskey. Some of the women went to the door to beg their husbands and brothers to come
in, and stood there crying, fearful that their relatives would be killed. I went to the door
and said to the women, "Come in. If there is any trouble you can do nothing to prevent it."
"We would come in too," said one of the rowdies, "but you always begin on us." "No," I answered,
"we will not begin on you. We shall be glad to have you come in, and we shall expect you to
behave yourselves."

Most of the men outside came in, and the meeting began. The Lord gave me the message. During
my discourse, I said, "Fools make a mock at sin, but who is it that mocks God?" "No fools,
no tun. You know that too," cried one of the men. Then he began to say the Lord's prayer, but
was too drunk to finish it. I paid no attention to the interruption, and continued my sermon.
There was no more disturbance, and not a revolver was fired until the mob was some distance
from the house. One of the men gave himself up the next day and three others were arrested.
They were a shamefaced set of fellows after it was all over.

Early in December we were holding meeting on Dry Creek not far from where we held our first
series of meetings in Meries county. Some grown-up boys and girls, who had been drinking freely,
came to the services and created such a disturbance that Jeremiah thought it best in the interest
of good order to have them arrested. On the day of the trial the two lawyers employed to defend
these young men and women, ridiculed and belittled my brother, calling him "the immaculate
Jeremiah," and insinuating that he thought himself almost equal to Christ. At first I felt
greatly tried, but when I looked round and saw that Jeremiah's face was glowing and that he
seemed almost happy enough to shout, my burden all left me. I made up my mind that since my
brother was so triumphant I, too, would throw off the burden and claim victory. The young people
who had disturbed the meeting had to pay a small fine. So far as I know, they behaved better
in the future.

Just a few days after the occurrence just related, we began a meeting in the Bell schoolhouse,
about five miles further down Dry Creek. My brother and I were staying with different families
in the district. An M. E. South preacher who lived in the neighborhood, and who had heard of
our trouble with the young folks in the other district, sent word to my brother that a mob
was coming that night to break up our meeting, and that we should stay away and let him hold
that service. He believed that the young people opposed us because we taught holiness, divine
healing, etc.; and thought that his age, and the confidence of the people of the neighborhood
in him would enable him to control the mob and to hold the meeting without difficulty. He tried
to send word to me too; but, as I was staying with a family who lived some distance away, I
did not receive his message. Jeremiah remained at his boarding place.

I went to the schoolhouse that evening expecting nothing unusual; but to my surprise I found
in the house and yard a boisterous crowd of twenty-five or thirty men, who had been drinking
freely of the liberal supply of whiskey they had brought with them. They were banded together
for the express purpose of having a good time and breaking up the meeting. I can give you no
adequate idea of the scene that greeted me as I approached. Men were running in and out of
the schoolhouse, drinking, yelling, swearing, and talking at the top of their voices. The confusion
was terrible.

Soon after my arrival the old preacher attempted to begin the service. He gave out a song,
which a few of those present tried to sing; but the crowd was so noisy that the preacher alternately
plead with them and reproved them, but without avail. The noise increased: the confusion became
so great that, in despair, the old preacher gave up the attempt to hold a meeting and began
to take down the names of those members of the mob whom he knew. The men had with them a number
of bottles and jugs of whiskey. Drinking, swearing, and yelling continued without intermission,
and from time to time we could hear the firing of revolvers. As soon as it seemed safe to do
so, I went home with one of my friends, who lived near by.

As soon as possible, the old minister had a number of the members of the mob arrested and brought
to trial for disturbing the peace. The preacher's actions during the trial showed that his
object was, not so much to preserve the peace, as to take vengeance. Not content with a fine,
he insisted on a jail sentence.

After the prosecution had offered its evidence against the mob, the lawyers on the defense
made fun of the preacher saying: "What! you! A minister of the gospel! You want to send them
to jail! You should be praying for them and trying to get them saved." His reply was, "Yes,
I will do all I can to send them to prison and then I will go and grin at them (in derision)
through the bars." I do not now recall whether or not the culprits received any punishment;
but at any rate, the preacher's desire for vengeance was not satisfied. It was a common report
about the country that he was so disappointed and mortified over what had happened that he
did not sleep any that night. The difference of spirit manifested by my brother and that manifested
by the old preacher shows the difference between the operation of the love of God and of human
vengeance.

Soon after we began our labors, I became afflicted with the itch, which was then epidemic in
that part of the country. A neighboring high school had been closed because of this disagreeable
affliction. Previous to taking the disease myself, I had met some of the saints who had it,
and who had not been healed as soon as I thought they should be. I shall have to relate that
through ignorance--to my shame, be it said--I was not as compassionate to those unfortunate
ones as I should have been. I had made assertions similar to this: "If you can't trust the
Lord for healing, I would advise you to use remedies. Mother says that any one who would keep
such an affliction any length of time is not decent." Many of the people were wounded because
of my heartless way of talking, though I did it ignorantly.

The Lord saw that I needed a good lesson, and therefore let the malady come upon me in a severe
form. While preaching in small overheated school-houses with but very poor ventilation, my
body became overheated, thus aggravating the disease, and soon I was not able to be in the
public services at all. My arms swelled so that I could not straighten them; and for some months,
I had but little use of my hands. This affliction baffled my faith more than any that I had
had up to that time, but I had no temptation to resort to remedies. The case of the lady preacher
whom we visited in northern Missouri stood before me as a warning. I decided to have my battle
now, and not to give way and lose my healing faith. So I held on steadily by the help of my
brother and fought the battle through until God gave me victory.

It was some time before I got rid of all the symptoms. The Lord showed me that I must be willing
to go into the work again with them still showing. To do so, required humility, and I had to
seek the Lord for help. I met rebuffs of which only the Lord and I knew; but God was ordering
this experience, and the trial lasted no longer than was for my good. To complete the lesson,
God laid upon me the duty of confessing publicly the attitude I had held towards those who
had the itch before me, and the way I had talked to them. I made my confession, humbly asking
the forgiveness of all who had been wounded by my words. God's way is humility before honor.
The going down is painful; but God's lifting up afterwards is sweet. Praise his dear name!
Christ was a meek and lowly Savior. To follow his example we must go the lowly way.

While yet in sectarianism I got the impression that the devil had to be stirred before a good
revival could be held. Acting on this principle, I prayed that the Lord would stir the devil
in the series of meetings my brother and I were then beginning at the Tennyson schoolhouse.

My prayer was answered. One evening near the beginning of this revival nine respectable young
men of Vichy, Missouri, hired horses and saddles at the livery barn and came out to the schoolhouse
to attend the meeting. Two desperate characters, reputed to have escaped from the penitentiary,
were present, but remained outside the house. The services proceeded unmolested; but, after
the service, when the nine young men from Vichy went to get their horses, they found that some
one had cut the saddles and bridles in pieces and turned their horses loose. Others found their
harness cut and the nuts of their wagons gone. The two desperadoes now began walking back and
forth through the yard, displaying their weapons and threatening to shoot any one that accused
them of committing any depredation. As the burrs had been removed from the wagon in which I
came, I had to ride home on a mule behind another person. Jeremiah said, "Mary, I hope you
have learned the lesson to not pray the Lord to stir the devil until you know you are able
to cast him out. It is not always necessary that the devil be stirred before a revival. Souls
can be saved and even devils cast out without the devil's being stirred and the power of the
enemy being put on exhibition." I never again prayed for the devil to be stirred.

About the beginning of the new year, the affliction which I have already mentioned, rendered
me unfit for public service, and for about three months my brother and I stayed at the home
of Brother Baugh on Dry Creek, where we read and studied and prayed and fought the affliction
that had been imposed upon us. My brother got his prayers through and obtained healing much
sooner than I. He used afterward to say, "I shall thank God through all eternity for having
had the itch; because when I prayed through for healing, I struck the evening light," meaning
that he was beginning to discern the unity of God's people. This remark was often followed
by a happy, hearty laugh.

Early in the spring I had so far recovered from my affliction that my brother and I began again
to hold meetings in the schoolhouses in the counties where we had been working, covering in
all a territory about fifteen or twenty miles in extent. These meetings usually lasted two,
three, and four weeks at each place, and were very profitable in the salvation of souls. There
were some things in connection with our work, however, that puzzled us greatly. For instance,
after we had held a good meeting in which a number of souls had been saved, and had gone on
to other appointments, preachers of different denominations would follow us up, preaching against
two works of grace and divine healing, and casting reflections on us as ministers, with the
result that upon returning after an absence of several weeks, we would find the people discouraged,
and the congregation in a bad spiritual condition.

These things made our hearts ache. We saw that in our absence the people needed some one to
give them advice, encouragement, and spiritual help.

Finally my brother said to me, "Mary, I am going to write to the Free Methodists and ask them
if they will send us a preacher that will preach holiness." It was not long until we received
the following letter from the Free Methodist Conference: "If you get a congregation large enough
to guarantee a minister a salary of five or six hundred dollars a year, we will send you a
man that believes in holiness." As they did not say that the minister they would send would
have the experience of sanctification, their letter afforded but little encouragement.

While awaiting the reply of the Free Methodist conference, my brother had visited the Tennyson
schoolhouse where we had held meetings sometime before. He found that no sect minister had
yet demoralized the believers, and the members were more spiritual than those of any congregation
we had yet visited. This occurrence threw some light on our difficulty. My brother, as was
his usual custom when he had anything of great importance weighing on his mind, resorted to
prayer. As it was March and the weather quite cool, he put on his overcoat and went out to
spend the day alone until he got the leadings of the Lord.

God began to show him the sin of division. Jeremiah did not see matters very clearly yet, for
he asked the Lord how we could get along without any human organization. The Lord asked him
what good they had done, and brought to his mind the fact that it was only the spiritual ones,
those who had not partaken of the spirit of division, that God could use to any advantage.
My brother then inquired of the Lord how this sin of division had been brought about, and the
Lord showed him that he could find the answer to his question in history.

When my brother had an opportunity to read history, he found that every sect builder told his
own story. He saw that not one of the human organizations measured to the pattern of the New
Testament church, and that since the sects have human founders, they could not be the church
of God as that institution is of divine origin.

My brother then went back to the Tennyson schoolhouse, and preached his first sermon on the
subject of the unity of God's people. The people joyfully accepted the truth and walked in
the light. Jeremiah thought that when I heard what God had revealed to him I would be rejoiced;
but, to his surprise, I could not yet discern the body of Christ. I was still under the influence
of the wine of Babylon.

Our meetings had been attended with excellent results. Many souls had sought the Lord. In one
meeting, which lasted three or four weeks, the whole country was stirred. Many young men and
even whole families got under deep conviction. After a day spent in fasting and prayer, we
came together in the evening, and conviction settled so heavily upon the people and God worked
so mightily that we labored at the altar until two o'clock in the morning. Almost every seat
was an altar. Rain was falling, and the brush arbor in which the meeting was held did not protect
the congregation; but the interest was so great that the seekers paid no attention to the water
that constantly dripped through the boughs overhead. About twenty souls, I think, sought the
Lord that night. During the whole series of meetings, a large number were saved.

About this time Sister Julia Meyers, now of Ima, New Mexico, joined our company, and for some
months, traveled with us in the work. She had been healed before coming to us; but she got
light on the one church in our meetings. The Lord had been teaching me to more fully trust
him for temporal needs as well as for spiritual benefits. When Sister Meyers joined our company,
I began to teach her the things that God had been showing me. I saw that she needed help. First
she began borrowing money from me now and then to get what she needed. I felt that I should
give her the money. Later, when I needed a pair of shoes, she began to feel that she should
get them for me. She had enough money to buy the shoes, but found it a little difficult to
obey the impression.

In the meantime I was earnestly praying for the shoes. God made me to understand that my prayer
had gone through, and that I could have had the shoes sooner, had I prayed more earnestly.
I was upstairs. It came to me, "How do you know but that the shoes are downstairs waiting for
you?" In less than five minutes I was called downstairs; and, sure enough, there were the shoes.
At first I did not know where they came from; but Sister Meyers was so blessed in her obedience
and sacrifice that she could not keep her secret, and we praised the Lord together.

As I was preaching the straight gospel of salvation from sin, sanctification, and divine healing,
it was to be expected that I should meet with opposition. I met with some very peculiar and
unexpected persecutions. Falsehoods were told about me that should have shamed the devil himself.
One rumor was that I was one of the famous outlaws, known as the "James Boys," disguised as
a woman. One of the truth fighters published a long account of my meetings in the county newspaper.
He branded me as an impostor, saying that I taught false doctrines. He affirmed that sanctification
and divine healing were not for the people of the present day, that no one but Enoch and Elijah
had been sanctified, both of whom went to heaven without dying. He ended his tirade against
me by saying that I ought to be driven out of the country, and that he would join a mob raised
for that purpose.

A Methodist lady, who no doubt had some understanding of Bible doctrine, replied to the gentleman
with an article, in which she said that the Wesleys taught sanctification, and George Mueller,
divine healing. "If," said she, "the gentleman would read more, he would be better informed.
There is some hope yet for 'Tom Paine,'" referring to the fictitious name signed to his article.
I did not know of this wordy battle until it was ended.

At times my brother would hold a meeting at one place and at the same time I would hold one
a few miles distant. It was at one such time that I held a meeting in the county courthouse.
I was assisted by a brother of the M. E. South denomination--a young college student, with
but little experience in gospel work, thought that he could not preach unless he had his sermons
written out. We preached on alternate evenings. One evening he came to me and said, "I wish
you would occupy the pulpit tonight. I have been away and have had no chance for preparation."
I told him that I had not had time for preparation either. "Sister Cole," he replied, "you
can preach better without preparation than I can with preparation, besides, I haven't had my
supper yet." "Perhaps you could preach better without supper," said I. Thus I held him to his
duty and did not sympathize with him very much either. That night he had to lean so hard on
God that many people said it was the best message they had ever heard him deliver.

Perhaps no young preacher going out in gospel work ever felt his inability more than I. As
God had promised to be my sufficiency, I leaned hard upon him and did not feel discouraged.
My education was so limited, that sometimes during a sermon, while trying to explain the Scriptures,
I would lack words to express myself, and would look to the Lord, taking him as my wisdom.
On such occasions he would supply me with words, and by his Spirit show me how to use them.
Later, upon looking in the dictionary, I would find that they had been used correctly. This
experience has been repeated many times in my ministry. Thus the Lord proved true his promise
to be my spokesman. When I leaned on him, I was never confounded; no, not once. Truly our God
is a covenant-keeping God, whom we can trust under all circumstances and at all times.

When the Lord healed me, he bestowed upon me the gift of exhortation and with it such a great
measure of the Spirit's power that when I read the Scriptures, there was a heavenly illumination
upon it, and I could see a sermon in almost every verse. At times the strength of this heavenly
light so dazzled me that my mind and body were well-nigh overwhelmed. I studied and preached
the Word under a light whose brightness could come only from the Spirit of the Lord, and I
by spiritual sight could see through the Scriptures with a vision as unclouded as the vision
before my natural eyes when looking through a clear glass. Oh, it was wonderful! I have always
thought that God blessed me with this divine unfolding of the Scriptures because I did not
at all depend upon my own human understanding, but leaned wholly upon him at the very time
that I was studying or expounding the Word. As I became accustomed to this heavenly light,
I was not so much dazzled by its brilliancy, but the gift of exhortation with its accompaniment
of divine power, has been mine, except for one brief time, throughout my ministry.

As I went from place to place preaching, I began to realize that I needed another gift of the
Spirit--the gift of teaching. When the Lord first impressed me that he wanted me to teach,
I begged off, saying that I stammered so that it was very hard for me to read. The Lord pitied
me and took another plan to get me to do what he desired. Up to this time I had great freedom
and much help in exhorting, but now God seemed to have taken this gift from me, and I became
as one who had never had it. The Lord showed me that I would have to trust him for ability
to teach and to explain the Word, and for help to overcome my stammering, or I would have no
gift at all. So I got down and cried to him like a child and plead with him for help.

When the Lord saw that I was determined to obey him, he not only gave me the gift of teaching;
but, to my surprise, he restored to me the gift of exhortation and let me exercise it as in
days gone by. Surely the Lord humored me. I now had two gifts instead of one. But I would not
advise others to do as I did, for though the Lord has no respect of person, you may have more
light than I had at that time, and it may be that the Lord would not excuse you because of
ignorance, as he excused me.

Quite early in my evangelistic work I held a meeting in a neighborhood where lived a man who
had been an M. E. exhorter. He had once been saved, so the neighbors said, but having accepted
a false doctrine that was being taught in that part of the country, and having partaken of
its spirit, he was in a bad condition when I went there. He had rejected Christ entirely, saying
that Jesus was nothing but an impostor.

Sometime before I went to the neighborhood, one of his children had gotten saved, and during
the meeting that I held, another one had also come to Christ. Knowing their father's condition,
the children feared his persecution and insisted that I should come and visit him. They thought
that if I went to the house with them he would be more considerate. For their sakes, I went.
I had heard that his practise was to invite ministers to his house, and then to belittle Christ
in their presence, to give them no opportunity to return thanks, and to make them feel as far
as possible his opposition to Christ.

After some conversation, he took down the Bible--the Old Testament I mean, he had no New Testament
in the house--and told me that he was going to prove to me that Christ had never come. I told
him that he could not do that, because by experience I knew that Christ had come. "If," said
I, "you are going to try to prove to me that Christ has not come, you have gotten hold of the
wrong person. I would stake my life that Christ has come. I have met the conditions prescribed
in his Word, and he has given me the witness of my salvation, and has also healed me."

I tried in various ways to see if there was a tender spot in his heart that God could touch.
Among other things, I said, "When I first started out in the work of the Lord, I wrote to my
mother saying, 'I have found many good friends. All who are Jesus' friends,' I wrote, 'are
my friends.' But," I continued, "I suppose I have now found a man who is not a friend of Jesus,
and yet is my friend." I thought this would shame him. "Yes," he answered, "I am your friend,
but not his." I returned thanks at the table and also asked him the privilege of praying before
I left. The Spirit of God intimidated him till he did not dare to refuse me. Never did the
name of Jesus seem half so sweet to me as when I got down to pray before this wicked man. It
seemed as though all the sweetness of heaven was wrapped up in that name. I could say but little:
I could only breathe out the precious name of Jesus; and oh, how he magnified himself through
His name! Although I felt the presence of infernal spirits all around me--the very spirit that
crucified Christ--yet I felt the presence, too, of the blessed Lord, the Christ of the Bible.

Still thinking that I might say something that would touch his heart, I said, as I was about
to leave, "Pray for me." He said, "I will; and you pray for me: but not in the name of Jesus;"
adding a moment later, "but I know that you will do as you please anyhow." I felt then that
unless God directly ordered it, I never wanted to go again to a place where Christ was so entirely
rejected. I thought of the scripture which says that they had forgotten that they were once
purged. If ever I met a man who had sinned against the Holy Ghost, this was certainly the man.

In the early years of my ministry, I sometimes found that when the Lord was burdening my heart
to preach on certain subjects my sympathy stood in the way; that is, I was afraid I would hurt
somebody's feelings. One night I dreamed that another minister and I were standing near a large
casket containing two dead bodies. It seemed that God wanted us to dissect these two bodies,
and I said to the minister who was with me, "Brother, we had better get to work before the
stench fills the room."

When I awoke I knew that God was trying to teach me something. Just a few days afterwards I
went across the country accompanied by the brother, and his wife, of whom I had dreamed. Some
of the congregation at the place where we were going to hold meeting on the next Sunday, were
professing to be saved, and at the same time were living in adultery. Some others needed warning
in regard to other sins. The Lord wanted me to preach to these people showing them where they
stood; but, because of my sympathy for them, I did not want to handle the subject. The I ord
reminded me that I had promised to preach his Word on any subject. "Yes, Lord," said I, "but
I sympathize so with these people! I would rather be whipped from head to foot than to preach
on this subject at this time." I preached, talking first on one subject and then another, and
not coming to anything definite, entirely failing to give them that portion of the Word that
they so much needed.

That night I took very sick. It seemed that I should die. I did not know what was the matter.
I asked the Lord why I was suffering so; and he reminded me that I had said that I would rather
be whipped from head to foot than to preach on the subject he had given me, and that now the
whipping had come. When God administers correction, he always does a thorough work. I begged
earnestly that he would take his hand off, promising him faithfully that I would never grieve
him in that way any more; but I saw that I lacked sufficient Holy Ghost boldness to carry out
my decision if I continued to sympathize with those for whom the message was intended. So I
asked the Lord earnestly for help, telling him that if he wanted to use me in dissecting, he
must give me the ability. The lesson has never had to be repeated.

During my earlier ministry an incident occurred which to some might seem amusing; but which
to me furnished an excellent spiritual illustration. A class-leader of the M. E. South denomination
came a number of miles across the country to take me to a certain place to help in a meeting.
We had to ford the Gasconade river. It was winter, and the ice was frozen thick. Before we
reached the river, some men had cut a road through the ice, so that people could cross on horseback.
As we rode out into the stream the flowing water seemed to affect me strangely. It seemed to
me that the brother who was with me was trying to pull me off of the horse and drown me. I
said, "Don't, don't, it is all I can do to stay on now." When we reached the other side, the
brother broke into a hearty laugh: "Sister Cole, did you think I was trying to drown you? I
saw that the water made you dizzy, and that you were about to fall off the horse. It was all
I could do to keep you from drowning."

Many times since then I have thought of this incident, as an illustration of a certain spiritual
condition. When a person gets somewhat cold spiritually, the doctrines of the church become
indistinct, and, spiritually speaking, his head begins to swim. At such a time he is likely
to think that those who are endeavoring to help him out of his difficulties are trying to drown
him; that they are in spiritual trouble themselves and that they are trying to pull him into
the same difficulty.

At another time I was going to a meeting near the place of which I have just told you, and
had to cross the same river. It was earlier in the fall; and the Gasconade, although badly
swollen, had not yet frozen. The boy who was with me, feared that the river was too high for
fording, and asked what we should do. As the appointment had already been made for me, I feared
that the people would be disappointed and told him we would better go across if we could. "Shall
I go across first and see how deep the water is?" he asked. I told him I thought that would
be the better way. He found the water to be deep enough to swim our horses, but thought that
we might get across, although we would risk our lives in the attempt. He said that if I wanted
to run the risk, he was willing. God protected us and we reached the other side in safety.

The young man said to some of his friends afterwards, that he was afraid we would both drown,
but that he would not let a woman back him out. "I knew," said he "that if she drowned, she
would be saved; but that if I drowned, I should be lost." I certainly appreciated his generosity
in risking his life to help me.

While holding meetings in that neighborhood, this same young man and his brother, although
unsaved, befriended me in every way possible, because they knew that I had come there to do
the people good. Their sisters, who professed religion, also manifested great friendliness
for me. At one time when some sectarian holiness fighters tried to shut me out of the schoolhouse,
the two brothers defended me like lawyers, won the case, and secured the use of the house for
as long as I desired to hold meetings. Whenever I needed a conveyance, I had only to call on
these young men.

I met a brother young in the ministry who had a very clear definite experience of justification
and sanctification, and who had had a very definite call. He had had, however, but very little
experience in tests and trials, and was therefore not qualified to be the blessing to young
converts or to young workers that he might have been. As he had been so victorious in his religious
experience, he thought that trials and tests were a sign of weakness, and that those who had
them were spiritual weaklings. Whenever a young convert or worker had a test or a trial of
faith, and needed special help or encouragement, he would think, "Oh, well it isn't worth while
to bother with him; he doesn't amount to much anyway. He will not stand, and if he does, he
won't ever be very useful in the Lord's cause. He is not worthy of any attention."

God let this brother go through deep waters. He had a severe test; and when he came through,
his compassion was much increased, and his care and consideration for the young converts and
those in trouble was all that could be desired. He did not find any one then unworthy his consideration.
He had learned that every soul worth Christ's dying for, is worth all the effort we can make,
either for its deliverance or its establishment. Well did the Psalmist say, "When I was in
trouble thou hast enlarged my steps." The Psalmist got the enlargement right in the trial,
just as we often do. Much of our development is obtained in the furnace of trial; in fact,
I believe most of it. Let us be thankful, therefore, for the dispensation of God's grace, whether
it be bestowed by trial or in sunshine; whether it comes in storm or in calm, knowing that
God allows all for our highest good.

Quite early in our evangelistic labors my brother saw that I had been leaning too much on him.
Frequently when God wanted me to deliver a message, I would hold back and let my brother preach
instead. I was not getting the experience I should, nor being as useful in the Lord's work
as I might. My brother thought that if he should leave me to work alone for a time, the Lord
would have a chance to help me more. He therefore began leaving me to hold meetings alone for
weeks at a time, while he held services in some nearby neighborhood. Naturally, I felt somewhat
fearful about being left to carry on the work alone; but the Lord helped me and enabled me
to hold a number of good successful meetings.

At one of these meetings God had been answering prayer and conviction was falling heavily upon
the people. The whole neighborhood seemed stirred, and crowds were at the altar. Fathers and
mothers came seeking salvation. A few, however, among them a Campbellite minister, came with
the intention of causing trouble. He wanted a chance, he said to tell the people how to find
Jesus. I asked him what he would tell them. "Obey the commendments." "What commandments?" "Join
the church and be baptized." "If you have a message from God," said I, "we will hear it; but,
if you have not, we will not hear it. Souls are at the altar and their eternal interests are
at stake. This is too serious a time to deliver a message not from God." He arose and went
out, accompanied by the man who had come with him. When the sinners laughed at him, he said,
"If you had had such hot testimonies thrown into your faces, you would have left too." When
this same minister came to another meeting to disturb, God got hold of him and brought him
to the altar. I don't think he got an experience, but he made no more attempts to disturb the
meeting.

Every time the enemy undertook to hinder the work, God marvelously helped us. At one time a
certain minister came to try to look me out of countenance while I was preaching. His plan
was to confuse me so that I could not preach. The enemy knew that if I became the least bit
confused, I would stammer so that I could hardly talk. God was present to help me. He so confounded
the man that before the service was over, his head went down and I had no more trouble with him.

At different times I held meetings of three or four week's duration, preaching twice every
day and three times on Sunday. I had no help in the preaching, and but very little at the altar
service. There were many people at the altar seeking God and the work was very heavy. The Lord
wonderfully sustained me. The fact that I went through such fatiguing experiences as these,
laboring sometimes far into the night, shows how wonderfully God had healed me, and how he
was sustaining me in my work.

Experience alone will show how much the dear Lord can help us physically as well as spiritually
if we but trust him. Unbelief and doubts hinder God from being to us our sufficiency at all
times and under all circumstances. Faith will take hold of God for things beyond the comprehension
of our natural minds. The Word says, "All things are possible with God"; "All things are possible
to him that believeth." As we trust in the Lord, he will honor our faith and give us the desire
of our hearts.

Chapter XII

Out of Sectarian Confusion

I was still a Methodist. The Methodist did not license women to preach; but when the preachers
found out that God was using me in the salvation of souls and that I was not especially interested
in building up any certain denomination, I had an abundance of calls.

God had already begun talking to my brother Jeremiah about the sin of division, and he was
beginning to see the evils of sectarianism. The winter after I was healed, he had attended
the Jacksonville, Illinois, holiness convention, and had met there Bro. D. S. Warner, who at
that time was editor of a holiness paper, The Herald of Gospel Freedom, then published at Rome
City, Ind. Brother Warner was already beginning to discern the unity of God's people, but he
had not yet received enough light on the subject to sever his connection with the Winebrennerian
denomination, of which he was a member. It was about the time of the Jacksonville meeting that
The Herald of Gospel Freedom was consolidated with The Pilgrim, a small holiness paper published
at Indianapolis, Indiana.

While at the Jacksonville meeting, Jeremiah subscribed for The Pilgrim and had it sent to me
at Windsor, Missouri, as I had not yet begun gospel work.

I received only a few numbers of The Pilgrim, as that publication was consolidated with The
Herald of Gospel Freedom January 1, 1881, under the name The Gospel Trumpet. At a later date,
when Brother Warner had full light on the church, The Gospel Trumpet was no longer considered
a consolidation of the two papers, but an entirely new publication. The first issue of The
Trumpet (January 1, 1881) represented a new paper and was later designated as Vol. 1, No. 1.
When the publication of The Pilgrim ceased, Brother Warner began to send me The Gospel Trumpet
to finish out the unexpired time of my subscription to The Pilgrim.

During my brother's absence in evangelistic work I received several copies of The Trumpet.
As soon as I read in The Trumpet about the sin of division and saw that the new paper opposed
the licensing of preachers, my sectarian spirit was stirred. I thought that holiness would
make the churches, as I called them, better. I was afraid that if people got hold of such literature
as The Trumpet it would disgust them with holiness forever. I burned The Trumpets I had already
received, and then sat down and wrote Brother Warner never to send me another copy. As I was
traditionized, and had opposed the truth in ignorance, the Lord did not hold my opposition
as a wilful sin.

After my brother had got light on the one body, he was so enthused with the truth that he wanted
to explain it to every one he met. While out walking one day the next summer after he discerned
the one body, he fell into conversation with a man about the Scriptures. After talking a little
while the man said, "I have a paper that reads just as you talk." Going to the house, he brought
out The Gospel Trumpet and gave it to my brother, who went down the road reading as he went.
He never stopped reading until he had finished the paper. At the earliest opportunity my brother
wrote a letter to Brother Warner, asking him if he had enough light on the one body to set
it clearly before the people. He also asked him if many were accepting this divine truth. To
the first question Brother Warner replied, "Yes," and to the second, "Yes, hundreds are discerning
the one body." As soon as my brother learned that Brother Warner and many others had the same
truth that God had made so clear and beautiful to him, he rejoiced greatly. He could not rest
until he went where Brother Warner was; but, as I had neglected to walk in the light, I was
left alone, and that, too, in more ways than one.

Some time before I discerned the body of Christ, I had some impressive dreams. In one I thought
I was in a large building belonging to some denomination. A conference of that denomination
was being held just outside the door, and the ministers wanted me to come and take part. I
looked toward the door through which I must pass, and I saw two large worms with their heads
together, lying directly across the threshold. In order to enter the room, I would have to
step over the worms and would be in great danger of receiving a deadly bite. I said to myself,
"I will not run the risk for any man's notions or ways"; and, turning on my heel, I went out
of another door.

I soon saw my dream fulfilled. The denomination that I had been holding a meeting for insisted
that I should join their conference, saying that they would give me a license so that I could
hold meetings in their territory. I knew that, according to their discipline, they could not
license a woman to preach; and I said to the minister, "You don't dare to give me a license."
"Well," said he, "I will tell you what you can do, Sister Cole; we can go to a place not far
from here where you have had a good meeting, lay this matter before the people, and have them
vote to give you a permit, so that you can hold meetings in any part of our district." I did
not feel at all led to take such steps; and, as I had done in my dream, I turned in the other
direction. I suppose God was using this method to get me ready for the truth.

The summer before I got out of sectarianism, an M. E. South minister invited me to come to
their new chapel, to attend the quarterly conference, and to help hold a series of meetings.
As the M. E. South denomination did not license women preachers, women were not allowed at
the quarterly conference. They had arranged, however, that several other women and I should
sit in a room adjoining the conference, so that we could hear the proceedings. This was on
Saturday. On Sunday morning they held their quarterly love-feast, partook of the Lord's Supper,
and listened to a sermon by the presiding elder.

In the afternoon and the evening, I preached. While the afternoon service was in progress,
the ministers were holding a private meeting to decide whether or not I should proceed with
the meeting I had come to hold. In this part of the country was a wealthy man, a sinner, who
contributed very liberally to the support of the work. This man objected to women's preaching
and opposed the continuance of the meeting.

It was decided that the meeting should not continue, but the pastor of the congregation did
not tell me. The pastor and his wife were both present at the service on Monday night, and
both seemed well pleased. On Tuesday evening the interest began to increase, and one or two
raised their hands for prayer. Just at the close of the service a note was handed me requesting
me to close the meeting, as they had decided not to continue at the present time, but to wait
until later in the season.

I could not keep from crying. I had called the Methodist Church my mother; and now to think
that my mother was treating me in this way, made me feel very bad. I went home with a young
couple who had been saved a short time before in a meeting held near this place. They felt
very bad over what had happened, and we all cried together. The young people tried to encourage
me as best they could.

Next day they took me to their aunt's, a special friend of mine, who had shown me kindness
while I was in that neighborhood before. As we went along the road, I thought to myself, "Any
one treated as I have been ought to look sneaking"; and I tried to think of everything I could
to make me look that way. When we arrived at our destination, the sister was not in the room,
so I hunted the smallest chair I could find, and sat down. As soon as she came in, she saw
that I was in trouble and inquired what was the matter. I began to tell her, crying at the
same time; but she began to laugh. Well, she laughed and I cried; but after a while I took
to laughing too. I never again felt bad about my treatment at that place.

I still continued to get calls from the sectarian preachers to go and help hold meetings. I
responded to these, and held two or three meetings in different places. Late that fall I held
a meeting at Rolla, Mo. The preacher could hardly get an audience when he preached, so he sent
for me, thinking that a woman preacher would be quite an attraction and would draw crowds.
The crowds came. Although there were a number of ministers present, including the presiding
elder, I occupied the pulpit, I think, during half of that meeting. Conviction came upon the
people, and a number came to the altar; but not many of those who came, seemed to get an experience.

On the last night of the meeting quite a number of bright, intelligent young people, some of
them college students came to the altar and some of them were getting saved. As the minister
went to talk with the seekers one by one, God put it into my heart to listen to what they were
saying. Not once did these preachers say, "Seek the Lord until you find him;" "There is reality
in salvation;" "Never stop until you know you are saved." Their instructions were: "Join the
church;" "Get baptized," etc. God opened my eyes right there to the awful work that these so-called
ministers were doing. I said, "If they are going to help deceive souls that way and send them
to destruction, I will never help them again." That was the last meeting in which I ever helped
to build up Babylon.

Collections were taken up for the ministers and for the general expenses of the meeting, but
no one ever said to me, "Do you need any means?" One of the sisters, however, found out that
I had a little money, and she asked me to give it to her to use in buying a little clothing
for me so I would be suitably dressed to preach in their meeting. I felt that even this was
too good for me, because I had failed to walk in the light.

At the close of the meeting, to my surprise, I found myself under a wrong spirit. I went to
Bro. John P. Bailey and wife, who had accepted the truth when Jeremiah preached his first sermon
on the church at that place. I told Brother and Sister Bailey my condition as best I could,
and the three of us fasted and prayed three days. God delivered me from the false spirit, gave
me light on the one body, the church, and made me glad to walk in the light as fast as it was
revealed.

Bro. Jake Cruts came to ask my advice on the subject of baptism. "Sister Cole," said he, "what
do you think about baptism: is it a commandment of God? If so, what is the correct mode?" Before
I could answer him, he continued, "I suppose we shall never know the right mode." "I believe,"
said I, "if we are sincere and come to God in earnest prayer, he will show us his will, even
if the scripture on that doctrine has been wrongly translated." The brother agreed with me,
and I said, "Let us get down and pray." While we were on our knees, God made me to understand
that in the near future, he would make known to me his will on the subject of baptism.

I told the brother who was kneeling with me what God had shown me; but it seemed that I needed
to be humbled still more. At this time I received another Trumpet in which there was an article
by D. S. Warner on the subject of baptism. I said to myself, "He is nothing but a Baptist preacher
anyway," and found myself going into gross darkness. For about two hours it seemed that I was
bound for hell. I cried out, "O Lord! why is it that after you have used me in the salvation
of souls, some of whom no doubt are in the glory-world, I must now be lost?" The Lord made
me understand that I was not responsible for not having been baptized, as I had no knowledge
of the teaching of the Scriptures on this subject, but that I was responsible for my present
light. He showed me that, if I would walk in the light, I should not be lost. I decided then
and there to walk in every ray of light that God gave me.

As members of the M. E. Church, my parents had had me sprinkled when I was a child, and up
to this time I had had no light on baptism. When I had opportunity and I was buried in baptism,
God wonderfully witnessed that I was being baptized in his order.

My first text after I got light on the one body of Christ, was Jeremiah 1:6-10 and 17-19. A
short time before this I had held a meeting with an M. E. South preacher, who now seemed to
stand before me like an obstructing mountain. As I began my sermon, I seemed to see him in
that capacity. Before I was through delivering the message, however, God had lifted me above
the mountain, so that I was never again troubled in that way.

My name was still on the M. E. class-book; but God showed me that I ought to have it removed,
and how to have it removed. I sent for my church letter and trusted the Lord to direct me how
to dispose of it. One Sunday after a sermon had been delivered on the church of God, I rose
and told the congregation about the church letter, told them that the Lord had shown me that
I could not have two valid contracts for my entire service with two different parties at the
same time. I said, "I have decided that the contract between God and my soul is the more important
one." Then I proceeded to tear up my letter, and God sent his mighty power, witnessing that
my contract with the Lord was ratified in heaven. So much of heaven came down, and the glory
world seemed so near, that I seemed attached to heaven, not by a cord, but by a mighty cable.
I shall never be able to express how satisfied I was with God's church. Some sectarian preachers
prophesied that I should soon be back preaching for the denominations. One of them was heard
to say, "If I knew that Mary Cole would come and help us in a meeting, I would send for her;
but I am afraid she won't." I never got any more special calls from Babylon.

Shortly after I got light on the one body, however, the devil laid a snare for me. I saw the
snare before I got into it, and God's Word was fulfilled: "In vain is the net spread in the
sight of any bird." It happened in this way: A certain man who was starting a new sect tried
to interest all he could in his project. He did not call his new religious movement by any
special name and professed not to have anything to join. He would have the people come and
shake hands, inferring that in so doing they were not joining anything, but were merely showing
their mutual love and fellowship. In order to be an encouragement to any that might really
be trying to live for the Lord, I went up and shook hands with the preacher and others. After
we had shaken hands, his design became apparent. He seated me and a few others on one side
of the platform and called for others to come and shake hands with us. The Lion of the tribe
of Judah began to roar in my soul. I got up very quickly, and the plan was defeated.

A common remark made to me by sectarians was, "You ought to join some denomination so that
you will be inside the pale of the church," thus inferring that because I did not belong to
a human organization, I was not in good pasture, but outside on the commons with poor, ill-fed
stock. I understood the figure of speech very well, for I was brought up on a farm where the
garden was enclosed with palings. Between these palings were spaces through which small animals
could get in and destroy the vegetables--a very good illustration of the sectarian churches
surrounded by their palings, through which unclean spirits can slip in and destroy the flock.
In the church of God I feel secure; because God has appointed salvation for her walls and bulwarks
(Isaiah 26:1), and through these neither evil spirits, nor even the devil himself can penetrate.

I was educated to believe, and in this way I often expressed myself, that the M. E. denomination
was my spiritual mother. This idea remained with me until I got light on the sin of division
and was spiritually able to discern the bride of Christ. Then I saw that "Jerusalem from above
is the mother of us all." I saw plainly that if I had two mothers, one must be a stepmother.
While my mother was living I never cared to have a stepmother. The prophecies of Scripture
so unmistakably point to the one church, the body of Christ, that they can be but poorly explained
by those who are trying to make them conform to sectarian theology. I am content with the church
of God, with Christ as the door, and nothing inside but the holy throng.

Besides, in sectarianism I did not have freedom in my ministry. I could preach only as the
sect ministers suggested. If God gave me more light, and I tried to give it to the people,
I was likely to receive a rebuke. I remember that at one time while I was holding a meeting
for some denomination, God led me to preach on holiness. In the very beginning of the meeting
they had advised me not to preach on this subject. What was I to do? The Lord reminded that
I had promised I would preach any part of his Word whenever and wherever he led me to do so.
He now brought me face to face with the question, "What will you do?" I said, "Lord, I will
obey you if you will stand by me." The Lord assured me that he would. I preached on sanctification
as a distinct second work of grace, God witnessing to the message by his mighty power. After
the service, the minister who had placed the restrictions upon me, said, "Sister Cole, that
is the best sermon you preached during the whole meeting." I answered, "I knew that the things
you didn't want were the things you needed."

After the Lord had led me into the precious truth of the oneness of his people, I was much
better satisfied with what God did with me and through me, with the meetings I held, and with
the results attained. Although at times not as many people professed salvation now as when
I was preaching for the denomination, yet those who got saved reached a settled experience,
being satisfied that they were in God's order. They were not looking around for something that
more nearly represented the truth. As a minister I was satisfied, knowing that I was delivering
the whole counsel of God. No one ever can be satisfied who is not walking in every ray of light
that God turns on his pathway.

Chapter XIII

The Evening Light

This chapter is an article written by the author many years after she had received light on
the unity of the church. It will acquaint the reader with what is meant by the expression "evening
light."

  "At evening time it shall be light." (Zechariah 14:6,7). The expression "evening light" suggests the
thought that there was at one time morning light. The New Testament
dispensation is sometimes called the gospel day. Like the natural day, this
gospel day has its morning and evening.

When the New Testament church was first set in order; when this Holy Ghost dispensation was
ushered in; when the gospel day began there was a wonderful outburst of light and power from
the glory-world. (Matthew 4:16). As a result of this mighty flood of power and light, the place
where the saints were assembled was shaken (Acts 2:1-7), the dead were raised to life, the
blind were made to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak the lame to walk, all manner of
diseases were healed, thousands upon thousands were converted to God, and many signs and wonders
were wrought in the name of the holy child Jesus. We also read of Paul's wonderful conversion,
of Peter's deliverance from prison, and of many who were delivered from devils. Oh, what wonderful
light God shed upon the hearts of men at that time!

The shining of this glorious light not only enlightened the minds of those who received it;
but it also revealed the effects of past traditions and brushed them away. The light also revealed
the New Testament life and experience, far exceeding the standard under the law. The word says,
"Light makes manifest"; so under the gospel rays every one's condition was revealed. The light
not only showed the people their sins, but also showed them how to get rid of them, and then
how later to get sanctified wholly. "For this is the will of God, even your sanctification"
(1 Thesselonians 4:3).

This, of course, is a much higher standard than was raised under the law. The law was, eye
for eye, tooth for tooth, love your neighbor and hate your enemy; but when the gospel light
revealed God's will in this dispensation, all people became so responsible because of the knowledge
of divine truth revealed to them and the unmeasured divine power bestowed upon them that it
was consistent to raise the standard where people would love their enemies and do good to those
who despitefully treated them. (Acts 2:44,45).

In many particulars far too numerous to mention can it be shown that the New Testament standard
was raised far above the law standard, showing God's compassion to fallen man. For example,
consider the woman taken in adultery. The law said, "Stone her to death"; but Jesus said, "Neither
do I condemn thee; go and sin no more." Notice also his compassion toward the Syrophenician
woman, who was considered a Gentile dog; toward the people when he performed the miracles of
the loaves and fishes; toward the multitude when he fed enemies as well as friends. Again,
when the disciples wanted to call down fire from heaven to destroy some who had opposed them,
Jesus said, "I am not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them." Jesus loved the people
so well that he healed even the man in the tombs who was possessed with a legion of devils,
and also the ear of the servant of the high priest who was then helping to arrest him. It was
his compassion that sent out the disciples to heal the sick, to raise the dead, and to cast
out devils. All these things were a result of the burning light that shone forth in the morning
of this gospel day.

We see that God's church in the beginning was a mighty moving power--a means in God's hands
to bring deliverance and salvation to souls, and healing to afflicted bodies. The work done
and the signs wrought all so far exceeded what had been done before that the people were made
to exclaim, "We never saw it on this fashion." And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended
in me" (Matthew 11:5,6). If from the morning time until now the light had continued to shine
with unclouded brightness, who knows how much might have been done toward the salvation of
the world! (Amos 8:9). In Paul's time he said, "For the mystery of iniquity doth already work"
(2 Thessalonians 2:7).

It was not long until the people began to drift away from God, to substitute outward form for
inward experience, and penance for faith. Heresies sprang up. Men lost sight of the church
of God, and began to form creeds, and to build up man-made institutions. The first creed was
formed in A. D.

325. Men drifted farther and farther away from the way of the Lord, and plunged into gross
darkness, until they could even kill the saints and think they were doing God's service. They
also fell to worshiping images after the manner of the heathen, and doing many other like things.
This departure from light brought about a serious state of affairs; so great was the persecution
of God's true children that they were hunted for their lives, and had to hide in dens and caves
of the earth. History tells us that death was the penalty for having in possession a New Testament.
With such a penalty hanging over the people of God, not many would be professing that did not
have the experience. It doubtless took a martyr's consecration to keep a real Christian experience
in those days, and it is equally as much needed in these perilous times.

This reign of gross darkness continued hundreds of years. (Amos 8:11). But God had designed
to bring again his children out of darkness. He proceeded to do so by giving light to such
men as Wycliffe, Huss, Luther, and others. History tells us that when light came to Luther,
he was steeped in Catholicism, so much so that he was trying to gain favor with God by various
acts of penance. On one occasion while he was climbing the "holy stairs" at Rome on his hands
and knees, the Lord thundered in his soul that salvation is by faith in Christ alone. We have
no account of Luther's getting light beyond justification, but the reformation did not cease
with him. Later the Lord gave to the Wesleys, Fletcher, Hester Ann Rogers, and others, greater
light on his Word, showing the privilege not only of justification but also of sanctification.
As the departure from the light and whole truth in the morning of the gospel day was a gradual
process, so the return to the light has been gradual. The Lord shed some light on the world
through Huss, some through Luther, and some through the Wesleys and others, thus restoring
the full light according to his own plan.

While God wonderfully used these men to shed light on the world in their day, yet many effects
of the apostasy were clinging to them. Divine healing in their day was almost unknown or known
to but few, and likewise the gifts of the Spirit. Wesley himself testified that he did not
possess any of the gifts of the Spirit, and did not think that any one else did. No one in
Wesley's time, so far as we know, discerned the one body and the unity of God's children. The
one who perhaps came nearest to discerning the body of Christ was either Wesley or Fletcher.
In their correspondence with each other, one said in substance the following: "In searching
the Word on the unity of God's children, I see that the Scriptures relating to the gathering
of God's children into one body must be fulfilled before the end; but I scarcely think we are
yet on the threshold of that period." He expressed his desire to see that time by saying, "God
hasten the day." No doubt if these men were living today, and walking in the light as they
were at that time, they would readily fall into line with the church in this evening time.

"At evening time it shall be light." That this scripture might be fulfilled, God in his wisdom
saw fit to shed more light on the one body and divine healing, not upon one person alone, but
upon a number of his people in different parts of the world. This light began to break forth
about 1880. I wish to call your attention here to the way in which God shed forth the light
on the church of God. In making a new sect, some man becomes the hub and center, and round
him or his ideas revolves the organization. But God did not center this reform in one man,
but gave the light to different ones in various parts of the world about the same time. The
work of the Holy Spirit upon their hearts in sanctifying them, caused them to see and flow
together. The fact that many persons in different parts of the world saw this light independently
of each other and at about the same time is one evidence that this movement is God's work and
not man's. Truly this is the evening time, and it is light.

God's will, order, and plan are more fully revealed to his children now than at any other time
since the days of the apostles. The Lord enables us more clearly to discern the one body and
its operations, and to know our place in it. The gifts of the Spirit are now recognized as
belonging rightfully to God's children, and are sought, obtained and used to the glory of God.
It is now understood that the same purity of heart and life enjoined by the church in the morning
time is not only our privilege to enjoy, but also the standard to which we must measure, and
the doctrine that we as ministers must both live and preach. The old Babylon doctrine, "Sin
you must," is exposed as a doctrine of devils. The doctrine and practise of trusting the Lord
for healing and at the same time using drugs and remedies to help the Lord out is cast aside
as false, and the true doctrine of entire trust in God for healing is taught and practised
instead. (Isaiah 30:26).

At the same time that God is shedding more light on his Word, his plan, and his holy bride,
he is also giving us more light on the workings of Satan and his deceptive power. As the light
shines brighter, of course the battle waxes hotter between God and the devil, between light
and darkness. As the light reveals the hiding-places of the devil and exposes his works, he
is becoming more and more enraged and is making a desperate fight, for his time is short. This
means much to the true saints in these perilous times. The enemy is not only doing all he can
to hold those who are already under his power, but is doing all he can to spot the pure bride.
Since he already sways his scepter over the sectarian world, he needs waste no time on them,
but can direct all his energies against the holy remnant.

The harder Satan works, however, the brighter shines the church of God, the one body, the bride
of Christ, the more glorious her splendor and beauty. Let us beware. Let us watch and pray,
that we may be kept pure and clean. The Lord is the same today as ever, and his promises are
as far-reaching. While it takes more grace to live a holy life at this time, yet the dear Lord
has provided a sufficiency. As a result we have more to enjoy, and more facilities for doing
good. The heavier the responsibilities, the greater the grace.

It is a thing indeed to be thankful for, that instead of the reign of conferences and synods,
priests and popes, we have the blessed privilege of living under the loving rule of the holy
Trinity, with Christ himself as the head of the church, and all we are breth-ren. (Revelation 19:6)

Truly we are highly favored among men. While we are now living in a time of great spiritual
peril, and have to encounter many dangers by the way, yet we have more to enjoy, and God is
more perfectly revealing himself now, than at any other time since the apostles.

  "Brighter days are sweetly dawning,
  Oh, the glory looms in sight!
  For the cloudy day is waning,
  And the ev'ning shall be light.

  "Oh, what golden glory streaming!
  Purer light is coming fast;
  Now in Christ we've found a freedom,
  Which eternally shall last."

Do you not think we should be very thankful since we are the most highly favored people on
earth? Those of us who have been delivered from the dark night of Babylon confusion, and translated
into this glorious light, surely have every kind of reason for which to be thankful. (Daniel
7:27). Read Daniel 7:15-28.

Chapter XIV

Various Experiences in Gospel Work

Soon after I discerned the one body, my brother and I visited St. James, Mo. We had labored
there but a short time when Brother Warner and his company came to the town to hold a camp-meeting.
When I was first introduced to Brother Warner, he made the remark, "And so you are the sister
that wanted to stay in Babylon in order to get wolves to take care of Iambs?" and then broke
into a hearty laugh. He referred to my remark that I was going to continue to work with the
sects, so that whenever a congregation was raised up I could get a sectarian minister to serve
as pastor. I enjoyed Brother Warner's merriment, as I was free from sectarian bondage. He was
truly a man of God; as meek, humble, and Christlike as any one I have ever met. Meeting him
seemed very much like meeting Jesus himself, He was always ready to comfort and encourage young
workers. He once felt so bad over having neglected to pray for a sister that was suffering,
that he went to the altar and sought forgiveness, although his neglect had been due to the
fact that he was so busy that he could scarcely have done otherwise than he did.

Before I began traveling with my brother, he had labored at St. James, where quite a company
of saints was raised up. When we visited the town together, strange things were happening.
The members of the congregation were having peculiar manifestations in their services--jumping,
dancing, and doing other strange things, which they did not know whether to attribute to God
or the devil, but which they thought were of the Lord.

My experience at this time showed that I was not entirely free from the influence of the traditions
that I had received when a child. In my early years I had been instructed that different bodily
demonstrations, such as dancing, jumping, etc., which occurred in the sect meetings some fifty
years before, were all of God. When, therefore, we visited this little town, we accepted all
their demonstrations as being of God. I even let some who were possessed with devils lay hands
on me. I became affected with their false spirit, and on certain occasions my joints would
become stiff and I would fall in a trance. As I went to shake hands with Mother Smith, who
was with them at that time, I fell stiff. Mother Smith knew what was the matter at once. At
first Brother Warner was somewhat puzzled, as he could see that although some of us were affected
by this false spirit, we still had the spirit of God. As he wanted to be sure of every step
he took, he began to work very carefully, holding on to God for guidance.

Finally God showed him that the time had come to send forth judgment. He read the 12th, 13th,
and 14th chapters of I Corinthians. He said he was going to give us a big gospel dish at this
time, and when he came to the scripture, "Charity does not behave itself unseemly," the judgments
went forth in mighty torrents.

I was sitting in the congregation, knowing that I had some of the devil's chatties on me. At
first I thought I would go out and pray it through; then I said, "No, I will look to God right
here where I am." I raised my hand to God and said, "Lord, you must show me what is of God
and what is not, so I can take my stand for you." Before my hand went down, God made me to
know that Brother Warner and his company were right, and that the judgments going forth were
of the Lord. I took my stand for the truth.

At this time and place it meant much to stand for the truth, for the whole country was polluted
with this false spirit, and when judgment went forth, it stirred up the enemy throughout the
whole country. As a result, a mob came that night after the services were ended, tore up the
tents, and loaded everybody and everything connected with the meeting onto wagons and quietly
sent them off the camp-ground. I was staying that night at a house about two miles from the
camp-ground, and so was not present when the mob came. About two o'clock in the morning Brother
Warner, who had got separated from his company, came, with a number of others, to the house
where I was staying. I was awakened very early in the morning to pray for a brother's child
that was sick. I did not feel clear to do this alone, as I had not sufficient victory over
the recent attack of the enemy. Finding out that Brother Warner was there, I called him. We
laid hands on the child, prayed for it, and it was healed.

Then I had them lay hands on me and pray that all the bad effects of the recent attack of the
enemy might be overcome. There was still a stir all through the country, and soon the people
began to gather at the house where we were staying. Many of them were now able to see that
they had been under the influence of wicked spirits, and desired deliverance. So many came
that from the time we had our breakfast in the morning until the sun went down at night, we
stopped neither to eat nor to rest, but were continually in prayer for those who wanted help.

It had been the design of the mob to kill Brother Warner, but the Lord graciously delivered
him. It was the second day after the mob came, before Brother Warner found his company; he
and they had gone in different directions. In the days following, Mother Smith was quite helpful
to me, as the enemy tried to depress and crush me; but the Lord brought me off more than conqueror.
A number of other honest souls were also gloriously delivered at this time; some of whom are
New Testament ministers today.

God soon showed me that I must trust him for heavenly authority over devils and over every
foul spirit. I came to God in earnest prayer, claimed my privilege as a minister, and obtained
the gift of miracles. I soon had an opportunity to exercise the gift.

The following spring, in company with my brother, I had the privilege of attending the Bangor,
Michigan, camp-meeting. For sometime I had felt the leadings of the Lord to go to this meeting,
but I did not have the means. I began praying earnestly that God would open the way for me
to go, but he saw fit to let my faith be tested. The time of the meeting was drawing near,
and the money for my trip did not seem to be forthcoming. As the time approached and different
people asked me if I was going, I would say yes. Some would ask me if I had the means for my
car-fare, to which I would answer no. "Well," said they, "what will you do if God does not
give you the means?" I replied, "I will trust him anyway." Soon, however, the Lord showed me
that I should begin fasting and praying, and that I should not eat until the money was provided.
Breakfast on Saturday morning was my last meal until the following Monday morning. By that
time God had answered my prayer: I had enough money to take me to the meeting, and there was
a little left to apply on my return fare.

It is unnecessary for me to say that I enjoyed this my first meeting after getting victory
over my sectarian blindness, past traditions, etc. The meeting was certainly precious and heavenly.
The songs were so sweet, being sung in the spirit, and having such a heavenly melody. It seemed,
almost, that I was where angels had congregated. Brother Warner would leap, shout, and praise
the Lord, both in meeting and between meetings when he would meet a saint. Whenever a new saint
came on the ground, you would hear shouts, praises, and halleluiahs, that would make the woods
ring. In the morning when we first met each other, our salutations were, "Praise the Lord!"
"The Lord bless you!" etc. I have heard Brother Warner say when he met those who seemed to
have no praises stirring in their souls, "Have you no calves this morning?" referring to the
scripture, "We should offer the calves of our lips, even praises to our God." I have been present
when, under the anointing of the Spirit, Brother Warner preached three hours and twenty-five
minutes; and those that were interested were not the least bit tired. While my brother and
I were attending a camp-meeting at Chanute, Kansas, our systems got filled with malaria. Coming
back to the home of Father Bolds, near Webb City, Missouri, I soon came down with typhoid fever.
My brother had an attack, also; but, as he fought it more successfully than I, he soon recovered.
I had a fight of faith. It seemed difficult for me to get hold of the Lord for healing. On
examining my consecration, I found that I was more anxious to die than to live. When I got
that difficulty out of the way, the Lord soon raised me up.

Nevertheless, I lay three and one-half weeks, most of the time with my tongue swelled stiff
in my mouth. I could eat no solid food, not even softened bread. During that time I lived on
liquid foods, such as grape juice and buttermilk. Prayer had been offered for me several times,
but without avail, for the reason that I have already given. One evening, however, prayer was
offered for me again. This time God gave the victory, rebuked the disease, and I was healed,
although I was left very weak. The next evening prayer was again offered that my strength be
restored, which petition God granted. The following morning Mother Bolds helped me to dress,
and in company with her and Father Bolds and my brother, I got into a lumber-wagon and started
to Joplin, Missouri, seven miles away, to begin a meeting.

That evening I testified, and the next day preached twice; although I could not walk alone,
and had to be led by two persons for a week, and by one person for two weeks. It was two weeks
before the saliva came into my mouth. During this time, also a number of disorders appeared
on my body one after another, almost like new diseases. As each new affliction appeared, God
helped me to trust him until it was removed.

All this time, however, God had enabled me to help in the services--to preach, to testify,
or to pray--whatever seemed to be my duty. Although I seemed able to do so much in the services,
yet my mental vigor seemed not to have been restored sufficiently for me to carry on a conversation;
and between services, I would scarcely talk at all. Indeed, I was hardly able to think rationally
very long at a time; but during the services when the anointing of God's Spirit was upon me,
I hardly think any one could have told that I was laboring under any difficulties at all.

The meeting at Joplin lasted four weeks. During that time my brother got a call to another
place, and I was left to finish the meeting alone. In many ways my body was not yet normal,
but it was improving surprisingly fast. Soon after my brother left, Mother Bolds came to call
on me, and I begged her to stay until the close of the series of meetings. I felt so helpless
yet that I could not keep from crying like a child. She encouraged me as best she could, and
told me that she would go home and see to things there, and then come back next day and stay
with me until the meeting ended. She was a great encouragement to me and also a great help
in the services.

Shortly after this I went with Father and Mother Bolds to help hold a meeting some distance
from there in southern Missouri. Large crowds were in attendance, God blessed in the services,
and souls were convicted and saved. A man and his wife who had professed to get saved, sent
for us to come to their house, saying that they were sick. It was a peculiar case, one that
we did not at all understand. Brother Bolds and I both went to God in earnest prayer, and the
Lord revealed to each of us independently of the other that we had on hands a case of evil
spirits. We laid on our hands, did all we could to cast them out; but as we did not know how
to trust God for authority over them, they would not go.

While dealing with this case, I learned that the man and his father had a grudge against each
other, and had not been on speaking terms for sometime. We remained at the house until the
night service, when the brother started with us to meeting. We had to pass his father's house
on the way. Before starting, the man had asked me privately whether or not he ought to get
the difficulty out from between him and his father. I advised him that he should. So when we
came to his father's house, he tried to ask his father's forgiveness; but instead of doing
as he purposed, the devils began to talk through him and to make strange noises. The son's
demonstrations stirred up the devil in his father, who began to rage against Brother Bolds,
and to abuse him, calling him wicked vile names. I said to Sister Bolds: "The Lord has used
us as well as Brother Bolds in the meeting, and I think we ought to be willing to take our
share of the abuse. Let us go up where they are talking." As we appeared, the father turned
on me. He said everything that the devil could bring to his mind, but the more he said, the
happier I became. Finally, Brother Bolds said, "Sister Cole, I think we had better hurry on
to meeting, as the congregation will be there and will be disappointed if we are late." It
seemed that I could hardly tear myself away from the place, God was so wonderfully pouring
his glory into my soul. The demon-possessed man came along with us, growling and whining like
a dog, and making other strange noises. He kept up these demonstrations during the entire meeting.
Some of the unsaved people seemed to understand just how matters were and enjoyed it immensely.
They laughed and had great fun.

For two weeks afterward the devil-possessed man was completely deranged mentally. His father
guarded the house and would not let Brother Bolds call on him; although, when the son saw Brother
Bolds, he would say, "If you will let that man in, I will soon be all right." After two weeks
his mental powers were restored, but he was completely turned against the truth, and would
not come to meeting any more.

On the night of which we have been speaking, I had promised to go back and stay all night at
the home of the son. During the night the Lord woke me up and brought to mind very forcibly
that the powers of hell were there, and that I was in the presence of a murderous spirit. The
Lord impressed me that I should lie awake and pray. Early in the morning my host began to call
to me at the top of his voice: "Leave, old Satan! leave, old Satan!" My first thought was,
"This is his home, and I shall be compelled to leave." Snow lay about a foot deep on the ground,
and the air was cold and sharp. It was a mile to the nearest house. My next thought was, "Why,
my name is not old Satan, and I will not answer to Satan's name; but if he calls me Mary Cole,
and tells me to leave, I will go as soon as I can, because it is his place, and not mine."

He left the house and went to the barn to feed his stock. I got up and dressed and was impressed
to remain until he came back, and then to ask him the privilege of having prayer with him.
It seemed that he could not refuse my request. So I read and prayed. Up to this time, I had
been bothered very much by my feelings; but now I just leaned on God alone, trusted in his
word, claimed the promises, and prayed that he would bring me off more than conqueror. The
Lord made me understand that he gave me power over all the powers of the enemy.

After prayer the man called me in to breakfast.

God had already shown me that he did not want me to eat breakfast; so I told the man I did
not care for any. He insisted that I come, and began to cry; but I did not go. The door being
open between the room where I was and the room in which they were eating, I heard him say,
"Wife, I believe we are mistaken; I believe those are the people of God." The next morning
being Sunday, he went with me to the meeting, but that was the last one he attended.

This was but a short time after I had the typhoid fever. The fight with the enemy in which
I had been engaged, strengthened my faith greatly. I was now more ready to cope with devils
than I had ever been before. I had been very weak on that point. Before the experience which
I have just related, if I felt all right, I thought everything was all right; but if my feelings
were not good, I began to doubt God's promises. God had just brought me off more than conqueror
in a severe conflict, and I was now ready to take him at his word, no matter how the enemy
raged, and no matter how bad I felt. My faith was now grounded in knowledge.

During the meeting we were then holding, we had to endure some persecutions. One cold night
some one put red pepper on the stove. The stove was in the center of the room, and the fumes
from the pepper almost stifled the people. They had to run out to keep from choking. Brother
Bolds quickly raised the window opposite the door, and the draft between the window and the
door soon drove the stifling fumes from the house. Although the people were so affected by
the fumes of the pepper, yet we ministers did not suffer a bit. Twice during this meeting we
were egged--once with frozen eggs. None of the eggs, however, hit any of us. Two persons who
were not fully decided to stand for the truth, got some benefit of the eggs. On the road to
meeting one night, some of the opposers of the truth were egged by their comrades, who mistook
them for members of our company.

Several times after getting light on the church I had the privilege of helping in meetings
in my own home. These were attended with good results: a few got deliverance and were established
in the whole truth. Some are true to God yet. One time while at my home, Sister Lodema Kaser
and I went to a little town named Greenridge, about ten miles away; and, being solicited by
some good honest souls to hold a meeting, we began services at that place. A good interest
soon began to be manifested: conviction settled on the people, and hands began to go up for
prayer. The meetings had continued nearly a week, when we received a pressing call from Kansas
to come at once to hold services in a certain town. As God was working in a marvelous way where
we were, I did not feel clear to go. Even after prayer I still felt that we should continue
the meeting where we were.

The second letter had come, I think, insisting that we should come. Then I began to infer that
if I did not heed this call, they would think that I was refusing because I was so near home.
So I submitted and went. To the surprise of the brother who had asked us to come, the Spirit
of the Lord did not work in the meeting. The brother soon saw his mistake and asked my pardon.
He said, "Sister Cole, I will never do such a thing again."

We did not remain long at this place. The only fruit of our labors, so far as we know, was
one dear sister who got under conviction, but who did not get a chance to become acquainted
with the whole truth until fifteen years afterward, but the light that she got at that time
and the conviction that came upon her, followed her until she was gloriously saved. This was
Sister Matilda Magley. The last news I had from her, she was a precious saint of God. Another
result of this meeting was, that we learned a good lesson. In the future, we were more careful
how we let others persuade us out of God's order.

I hold that God's true ministers who live close to him are able to get their own leadings from
the Lord, especially where souls are at stake. God wants us to have our own individuality.
True, the Word says, "Be subject to one another," but we are to be subject always in conformity
with his will and his Word. I know that I have had to trust my individual lead ing; I have
had to depend upon them to keep me from being led off by wrong influences and spirits. When
I saw my privilege to individually learn God's will, I took advantage of it, and I have had
reason to thank God for the protection of his Spirit.

God's children should be very careful not to urge his servants away from a place before God
says go, nor should they urge them to come to a place until God is through with them where
they are laboring. By so doing, souls may be lost that otherwise would be saved. At one time
I had four pressing calls to hold meetings in different places, and every one of them contained
the promise, "We will pay your fare both ways if you will come." God showed me that I should
not accept any of them; but should go in another direction, taking my own money to pay my fare.
I went, happy in knowing that I was in God's order. Dear ones, let us depend upon the leadings
of God's Spirit, and not allow our financial interests to bias our decisions.

While traveling in the West, Brother Warner and his company had held a meeting at Galesburg,
Kansas, in which a certain woman was saved. Previous to this time she had been a member of
a sect and was unsaved. Her husband, who was a doctor and had once had an experience of salvation,
was greatly delighted to think that his wife had an experimental knowledge of Christ. It seemed
that he could scarcely have been happier had he been saved himself. After his wife was saved,
he sent for Sister Kaser and me to come and hold a meeting. We came; but when he met us at
the train, we were not the capable-looking people that he expected to see, and he was quite
taken aback. Nevertheless, he invited us to his house and was very hospitable. We found his
wife to be a precious saint.

The meetings began; conviction came upon the people; and God began to save souls. Our burden
was mostly for the soul of the doctor. At first he seemed quite unconcerned about himself,
but much concerned for others. But God was working, and conviction soon fastened upon him.
At last I ventured to ask him to raise his hand for prayer, which he did. Next day I asked
him to take further steps toward his salvation; but he said, "Sister Cole, I did as you asked
me to last night, and I don't feel any better--I feel worse." I did what I could to encourage
him, and the Spirit of the Lord continued to work with him. After meeting one night, his load
had become so heavy he could not carry it any longer, and he then and there requested earnest
prayer. It was near midnight before God spoke peace to his soul, but a happier person you could
hardly find. He soon saw that the old sin principle was still in his heart and the enemy suggested,
"Do not get sanctified; you will have to give up certain things that you won't care to give
up yet. Just live a good justified life." In some way God gave him a warning that he must seek
sanctification. He heeded God's voice, came to the altar, and was fully sanctified. God soon
had his hand on him for the work. This was Bro. S. G. Bryant.

A man at Essex, Illinois, became interested in the meetings we were holding there. He was educated
in four different languages, made a profession of religion, and belonged, I think, to some
denomination, but had no experience of salvation. He soon saw that he needed help from God
and came to the altar. He had a desperate struggle. He said his education did not help him
to get saved, but was only a hindrance, and got between him and God. He wept and plead with
God just like any other poor sinner, and finally broke loose from the things that seemed to
hinder him and was made to rejoice in the Savior's love. Later he came to the altar and was
sanctified. Soon God's hand was on him for spiritual work, and later he became a minister.
This was Bro. Addison Kriebel.

This incident shows that while education is all right and a good thing to have, yet it is no
help in seeking the Lord. The scripture says, that the wisdom of this world is foolishness
with God. Nor will education bring soul-rest; it can not be substituted for spirituality. Education,
however, need not be a hindrance to spirituality if spirituality be made the master and education
the servant. If this relationship be maintained, the child of God is safe in the possession
of education.

At one time my brother Jeremiah was talking to a professor of a college about his soul, and
trying to get him to seek the Lord. The professor seemed to be full of learning, and his affections
were so set on the things of this world, that Jeremiah could scarcely make any impression on
him. While they were talking, the professor's little two-year-old child, who was playing near
by, came up and said, "Papa, Papa, put your affections on things above," and returned again
to her play. "There," said my brother, "can you take that? Can you accept the lesson the Lord
wants to give you?" Wise as the professor was, he was confounded, knowing that God must have
put this speech into the heart of his little child to reprove him. (Psalm 8:2).

At one time when Sister Kaser had been called home, I went home on a visit. While there, I
got a call to Meridian, Kansas, to hold a meeting. I arrived at the town on an early morning
train, remained in the depot until daylight, and then hired a boy to carry my valise to the
home of the minister, Mr. J. W. Wyrick, who was pastor at that place. The door was opened in
response to my knock; and, as I stepped in, I received a very strange impression.

The disordered house struck me peculiarly; but my mind was relieved when the man said that
his child was lying very sick and that they had been taking turns sitting up with it. In an
inner room, I found his wife, a pitiful, sad-looking person, with a face that bespoke trouble.
I kept my feelings and thoughts to myself, knowing that the Lord was able to guide me aright
and to use me to his glory. I felt wonderfully impressed, however, with the presence of evil
spirits. Not being able to locate them, or to reach any definite conclusion, I waited for further
developments.

The meeting began. There were at least three factions in the congregation, and I could see
but very little good in any of them. The man at whose house I was staying, claimed to represent
the church of God. Meeting had continued but a little while before his conduct showed me his
spiritual condition, and God wonderfully burdened me for his soul. While he was in prayer,
God showed me that his case was serious, and that he was badly under the power of the enemy.
It happened at the meeting. The young folks were misbehaving during prayer-time, and Mr. Wyrick
prayed against them so vindictively that it was not hard to tell of what spirit he was.

I soon felt led to renounce the wrong spirit that Mr. Wyrick had already exhibited in prayer.
This stirred him up. He knew that he had not been acting right, and he insisted that I should
come to his home for a talk. I did not feel led to go to his house; but he insisted from time
to time. Finally his wife came to me and said, "I wish you would come to the house, as it might
make my husband treat me better." For her sake I went; but oh, the awful spirit I met!

If there had been any want of evidence as to the man's condition, that want was now supplied.
He began a tirade--said that Eve was the downfall of the world, and number of other things
derogatory to woman's character. He told me that he had had a dream in which a forked-tongued
snake had been trying to kill him. "You," said he, "are that forked-tongued snake." I told
him that I could bear his abuse for Christ's sake. "But it is not for Christ's sake; it is
your own devilish work." I could not reason with him at all, and so I said, "Let us pray."
First I prayed, and then he prayed--an abusive prayer against me. He kept pouring out his abusive
talk, until I closed the door--"slammed it," he said, which was false. God kept me clear through
it all; but he made me to know that he did not want me to meet such cases alone any more, that
others should be present to be agreed with me, and to stand against the powers of hell.

For several years my youngest brother, George, had been impressed that God wanted him to go
into gospel work. He came to where we were then holding meeting. He seemed to think that God
had sent him to us for the especial purpose of making me more useful and effectual in gospel
work, which no doubt was the case. Nevertheless, God had a deeper design in his coming.

We were soon to go East to a camp-meeting. Although, when George left home he had only means
enough to take him to the camp-meeting, yet God had shown him that he should come farther west
before he went to the meeting. Before the time came for us to start, the railroad had cut rates
so that we could travel for about one-third fare. God had worked it out so that we all could
attend the meeting.

At a meeting Brother George and I were holding in Illinois, there was a brother who wanted
to walk by faith. He thought that in order to make a success of such an experience he would
have to ask the Lord to take away all feeling. I suppose he must have prayed until he got his
prayer through, for God certainly did withdraw all good feelings from him. He took a severe
affliction which caused his face and parts of his body to swell badly, and which brought on
intense suffering. God seemed to be present when we prayed for him, but the brother was not
healed, and his suffering became so severe that we were greatly burdened for him, and went
to God in very earnest prayer to know wherein the difficulty lay. God showed us how the brother
had prayed, and when we told him what the Lord had revealed to us, he saw his mistake and made
matters right with the Lord, then he was soon gloriously healed. I have no idea that he ever
asked the Lord again to take away all good feelings so as to enjoy walking by faith.

Some few years later, while Sister Kaser, my brother and I were in Robinson, Kansas, at a camp-meeting
word came that my father was very sick and wished my brother and me to come at once. Brother
Warner and his company were in this meeting. God was gloriously working, and souls were being
saved. When the letter came, therefore, we felt very reluctant to leave, and after going to
God in earnest prayer, we could not feel that he wanted us to start that day. Besides, I felt
impressed that if we should start that day we should not get through to see him alive anyway,
so we delayed our trip until the day following.

For about two weeks God had been impressing me that I was going to have a severe trial, at
the same time bringing to me these comforting words: "I will go with you through it." This
promise had been on my mind many times. The next morning we got a telegram that father was
dead, and the enemy tried to crush me with the accusation that I did not love my father or
I would have started to him the day before. Upon receipt of this telegram George and I started
at once. We had not proceeded far on our journey until we learned that the train we should
have taken had we gone the day before, was wrecked. Some of the cars went into the river. The
Lord's warning had possibly saved us from death; but if not, from unnecessary delay, because
had we taken that train, we should not have reached our destination any sooner than we did.

As I stood and gazed upon the still form of my father and remembered that a great deal of his
Christian life had not been satisfactory, I wished I could have talked with him before he was
taken.

The night after the funeral, when I had retired to rest, God began to talk to me. "Did I not
tell you that you were going to pass through deep waters?" "Yes." "Did I not tell you that
I would go through with you?" "Yes." "Have I not done as I promised?" "Yes." Certainly he was
a present help--all and more than I could have wished--yes, and more than I comprehended at
that time. I was so sustained that I did not at all realize the weight of the burden, because
Jesus bore it for me.

A little later God seemed to withdraw some of his sustaining power and let me feel to some
degree how heavy the burden really was. It seemed that the life would be crushed out of me.
I asked the Lord the reason, and he plainly showed me that if he had not withdrawn his sustaining
power I should never have known what a burden he had been bearing for me. I thought, too, that
another object, no doubt, was to develop in me greater sympathy for others carrying a similar load.

As I still felt burdened for the salvation of souls at Robinson, Kansas, I returned to that
place, and my brother remained to look after father's business. God gave me stirring messages.
A number of souls that had been convicted got down to business and were saved. God's design
was accomplished, and my soul was relieved.

Our next place of meeting was Wichita, Kans. Our company was to join Brother Warner's company
in a camp-meeting at that place. He had received the money to defray the traveling-expenses
of both companies. Our company was to meet them at the Robinson depot on a certain morning,
and all were to travel together. There had been some misunderstanding, so Sister Kaser and
I were not present. Brother Warner, therefore, left word that we should borrow the money and
that he would make it right with us when we reached our destination.

Sister Kaser and I did not start until the following morning. We told the saints about the
misunderstanding and explained that we did not have the money to pay our way. They did not
make us a loan, but gave us the money. Not knowing how much the fare was, we asked for too
small a sum, not wishing to ask for any more than we absolutely needed.

We could buy a ticket only to St. Joseph, Missouri, our first stopping-place, and therefore
we did not know how much money we lacked, until we reached that place and asked for tickets
to Wichita. To our surprise, we found that we had just enough to pay our way to Newton, Kansas,
twenty miles east of Wichita. At first we felt somewhat dismayed to think of going without
money to a strange town. We told the station agent of our predicament and also of our having
friends at both ends of the road, and asked him what we had better do. He advised us to send
a telegram to both places. In the meanwhile we sent a telegram up to the Lord, and he showed
us that we should buy our tickets to Newton and trust him to bring matters out all right. We
were shouting, happy. I remarked to Sister Kaser, "If some of these people on the train knew
our circumstances and knew how happy we are, they would think we were ready for the insane asylum."

In the meantime, my brother George was planning to attend the same camp-meeting. He did not
know what day we were going, nor did we know the day he was going. After he got started, he
found that he was on a road that made very poor connections, and said to himself, "If I did
not know that God was leading me to go this way, I should surely think I was out of order."
Just before we got to Newton, where we thought we should have to stop because we had no money
to go further, George got on the train, rode with us to Newton, got off at the station, and
bought our tickets on to Wichita, and we did not have to leave our seats.

When we got to the meeting, Brother Warner helped us to take a good shout, and refunded the
money that had been given him to pay our fares. We had a glorious camp-meeting and numbers
were saved. Hypocrites made some disturbance, but God overruled.

While here we met a man by the name of Joseph Prouse, who invited us to come to his place to
hold a meeting. We went. The meeting had been in progress three days, when, as we were in a
private conversation, talking about the nationality of those present, we found out that Brother
Prouse was related to my family. His mother and my mother were half-sisters, both being children
of the same father. Brother Prouse was the first relative of ours that we had ever met or heard
of that had accepted the whole truth. Not only Brother Prouse was saved, but also his wife
and some of his children. Truly we had a time of great rejoicing. It seemed so good to find
some of our relatives that knew God and were living Christian lives. The event was so unexpected
and such a glad surprise that we praised the Lord together.

Shortly before going to Galesburg, Kansas, to hold a meeting, I received a few lines from Brother
Warner telling me that two gospel workers, a man and a woman, would join me at that place.
In his letter he gave me to understand their spiritual condition so that we should know how
to proceed for their good and our own protection. The brother at the place where we were holding
the meeting had been saved but a very short time, and was not therefore able to discern false
spirits. When he saw that there was no fellowship between these two people and our company,
he was tempted to think that it was because we did not have compassion for them. God soon showed
him, however, that they were in a bad spiritual condition and that our company was all right.
From that time we had his help and encouragement.

After a day of prayer and fasting for the couple that needed help, they both humbled themselves.
The man fell to the floor stiff under the power of the enemy, but the woman desired deliverance.
So far as we could understand, God delivered both of them, but as they did not take a stand
against the evil spirits that had been troubling them, they got into the same condition again.
Under the influence of a spirit of accusation, they wrote a letter to Brother Warner finding
fault with our company of workers.

Bro. Charlie Williams, who was at that time a member of our company, was corresponding with
Brother Warner. In his letters Brother Warner would say, "God bless you, Brother Charlie!"
but he would never say, "God bless you. Sister Kaser and Sister Cole!" At that time the enemy
was coming against our souls with terrible accusing power, and we felt that we needed a blessing
very much. The accusations of the enemy continued for about two weeks, during which time it
seemed that our lives would be crushed out of us. Waking up early one morning, I said, "O Lord!
why is it I can't get consolation from a certain source," meaning "Why can't I get an encouraging
letter from Brother Warner!" The Lord answered, "I will give you consolation first-handed if
you will accept it." My heart opened up to God as a little flower opens to the morning dew,
and oh, how I drank in the good things of the kingdom! (Psalm 84:10). In my thought I could
compare my experience to that of a little child accustomed to but few pretty things and poor
surroundings who was put into a beautiful parlor containing all sorts of beautiful things for
its pleasure. Being told to help itself, it would walk up and down the room with delight, hardly
knowing what to take hold of or to enjoy first. In this experience through which I had just
passed, I learned the precious lesson that trial is to God's true children like a wine-press
to the grape. As the wine-press brings out the pure juice of the grape, so the trials of a
child of God bring out and puts on exhibition a pure Christian character.

On going East soon after these events, we met Brother Warner and told him of our experience
and of Satan's tempting us to think that he would renounce us. He answered: "No, Sister Cole,
we we wouldn't have renounced you, but had we been near enough and had known what you were
passing through, we would, had it been in our power, have gone to you and done all we could
to help you."

During the first summer that my youngest brother was with us in the work, he did not take a
very active part. There were several reasons for this. Before leaving home he was nearly broken
down through overwork. Besides, like almost all young workers, he was timid and backward, and
needed encouragement and support. When the battle was strong, he would not be able to bear
much responsibility. I would doubtless have been tempted in regard to my brother's condition
had not God made me to know that I must be patient and give his body time to recuperate and
give him a chance to develop as a worker.

Late in the fall we began a series of meetings in company with another gospel worker who had
been in the work for sometime. This worker suggested to me in the early part of the meeting,
"You and I will do the preaching, and toward the end your brother can have an opportunity to
exercise himself." He spoke as though, should my brother try to take part, the meeting would
be spoiled. I said but little in reply, feeling sure that God was able to manage things. As
a result of this brother's attitude, however, the accuser also turned on my brother's soul,
and as a result, discouragements set in on him thick and fast. I felt that something was going
wrong and spoke about it to the older brother, telling him that George needed encouragement
and not holding back, as he was timid. The brother assured me that he was giving George all
the encouragement he could.

Not long after the events of which I have been speaking, I had a dream in which I thought my
brother told me that this minister was holding him back and at the same time whipping him and
finding fault with him for not moving out. When I awoke, I told the dream to a sister with
the remark, "Well, this is nothing but a dream, and I don't believe there is anything in it."
Nevertheless, it troubled my mind until I asked my brother about the matter, concluding with
the remark, "I guess there isn't anything in it." He answered, "Yes, Mary, I guess there is
something in it," and began to cry. God stirred up my soul, and at the first opportunity I
talked to the older brother and told him what God had shown me in a dream. He said, "Oh, your
brother has been talking to you about it." I said.

"No, God showed me first, and then I asked my brother about it." The brother promised that
he would never do so again.

George and I visited a brother (Harvey W.) of ours that we had not seen for nineteen years,
not since I was a little girl and sorely afflicted. He looked at me with big tears running
down his cheeks and said, "Mary, I can see that God has done more for you than you can understand,
as I have not seen you for so long." A few months later, upon his invitation we came and held
a series of meetings in his neighborhood. He had once been a Protestant Methodist preacher,
and had enjoyed an experience of salvation, but had been quite doctrinized in the "one-work
theory." When we came to hold a meeting, he began to defend his pet theory. I soon saw there
was no use to explain the Scriptures to him, as he was unsaved, so I said to him: "Now, Harvey,
you know you haven't got the first work, so we will not argue about the second. Come to the
Lord. Let him forgive you and save you from your sins, and if you find that you get sanctified
at the same time, we will gladly accept your doctrine, but if not, you will know it." Before
the meeting closed, he came to the altar, called on God for mercy, and obtained forgiveness.
As he arose from the altar, I came to him, praised die Lord with him and said, "Now, brother,
do you know that you have received both justification and sanctification?" "No, Mary," he said,
"I think I did well to get my sins forgiven."

We were once holding a camp-meeting in Nebraska at a new place. The Spirit of the Lord was
working mightily. Souls were being saved and sanctified, and bodies were being healed. Much
was to be done, and especially toward the close of the meeting our time was fully occupied.
While we were the busiest, a brother brought an insane woman to the camp-meeting for healing.
Her husband accompanied her. As we were so rushed with the general duties of the meeting, we
had no time to give attention to so important a case until the meeting was over. We told the
brother that if the man and his wife would remain until after the meeting was over, we would
then do all we could for her deliverance.

The meeting closed on Sunday evening, and on Monday afternoon after we had packed our things
ready for the next meeting, we took the case under consideration and sought the Lord for wisdom
as to what should be done, and one of the company (George) obtained this promise: "God does
not give us the spirit of fear, but of love, of power, and of a sound mind." While we were
at prayer, the insane woman was down-stairs with a little girl, to whom she remarked, "My prayers
are up-stairs." She seemed in some way to be conscious that something was being done for her
benefit.

The woman for whom we had been praying had before her marriage been a bright, intelligent teacher.

Before she became afflicted, she weighed 190 pounds, but at the time of which we are speaking,
she weighed only 110 pounds. I can not say positively what was the cause of her insanity; but
as near as I remember, she wished to become a Christian, and as some of her relatives opposed,
her mind gradually became unbalanced. At the time she came to us for prayer, they said she
did not sleep for a whole hour during any night, but was walking, talking, or moving about
in some way.

As we waited on the Lord in her behalf, our souls were encouraged. We came down-stairs, anointed
the woman, prayed for her, and claimed the promises; but when we arose from our knees, she
was, so far as we could see, ten times worse than before. We did not look at outward appearances,
however, but praised God and rested on his promises and counted him faithful in fulfilling them.

That evening we went our different ways, but before we separated, we could see a marked change
in her for the better. My brother asked them to keep us posted as to how she got along, and
about a week later we received word that she was much better and was improving rapidly. About
six weeks afterward, I think it was, they said there was scarcely any signs of her insanity.
She had resumed her duties as mother and housewife, and was gaining flesh. Just a short time
before this latter report, it was said that upon the appearance of some little symptom of her
former malady, one of her relatives tried to make her take medicine. The brother who related
the story, said in his peculiar German way, that she "spitted it out and wouldn't take it."
So far as we have ever learned, the sister was fully restored to health.

When we are earnestly looking to God in behalf of some one who needs help, and he gives us
a precious promise, it is undoubtedly our privilege and duty to claim the promise and to be
strengthened and encouraged thereby. If God does not want to work in the case, doubtless he
will not impress us with a promise in this way. At such times we should not feel timid. God
is leading, and if we will move forward in faith as rapidly as he leads us, he is sure to bring
us off more than conqueror.

While working in Oklahoma, we became acquainted with the members of a new sect known as "The
Followers." Some articles of their faith were similar to those of the Christian, or Cambellite,
denomination. Besides these, they believed in the reception of the Holy Ghost by the laying
on of hands; they professed to speak in tongues and to interpret, a demonstration which God
made us to know was a deception of the devil. But the most peculiar tenet of their faith was
that their members were not counted perfect until they could pick up a snake without injury.
This belief was, we suppose, based on the scripture found in Mark 16:18: "They shall take up
serpents." A number of them were able to do this without any bad result, but a few were bitten
so badly that they came near dying. The Lord made us to understand so clearly the spiritual
condition of these people that we felt clear in pointing out their delusion.

In a dream that I had at this time, I saw a ferocious wild animal coming to take my life. It
seemed that if I could get hold of its horns God would protect me and help me to overcome it.
During the meeting of which I have been speaking, we went home with one of the families of
The Followers. As we were returning to the meeting in the evening, one of their number who
professed to talk with tongues and to have great authority, began talking his jargon as though
he were pronouncing vengeance on us. God gave me to understand that this was the wild animal
of my dream and that I should trust God and rebuke the devil, which I did. God put his rebuke
on the spirit, and that night, through us, exposed the false doctrine. One of the leaders came
out, got a good experience of salvation, and became a minister of the present truth. A number
of others also got established in the church of God.

Shortly after the events related above, we went to Nishnabotna, where we met a spirit similar
to the one we had encountered at St. James, Mo. The demonstrations, however, were not quite
so vile, but the spirit was making progress in the community and had a number under its influence.
In their meetings they would jump and dance and talk about the great power they had. They declared
it was God's power and that if any one went against it, something dreadful would happen to
him. They even went so far as to say that if any one spoke against the demonstration they made
or "the power," as they called it, God would strike him dead.

That same evening one of their number invited us to go home with him. Our conveyance was an
old-fashioned farm-wagon. For some reason I did not feel clear in going alone, as the powers
of the enemy were so plainly manifested. I therefore asked a certain sister to go with me.
We had not gone far until the enemy came at me with great force. "Now you know what was said
tonight-that those who opposed the power would be struck dead, and I am going to kill you."
I said, "No, you are not." "Yes, I will." "No, you are not." I immediately leaned on God and
trusted him for protection. Within a few minutes the enemy tried to carry his threat into effect.
The wagon was on the side of a ridge about half way between the summit and the base of a high
hill. On our left hand below us a number of feet lay a stream, on our right was a high cliff,
and ahead of us was a team which began to balk and push back toward our wagon. For a few minutes
it seemed that we must be either crushed by the big team in front or thrown into the stream,
God came to our rescue, and the other team was brought under control before ours became very
much excited. While the danger threatened us, however, we got out of the wagon, and the sister
who was with me sprained her ankle badly. None of the rest of us were hurt. Again the Lord's
promises were proved true and the devil a liar.

A number of people who had been under the false spirit, when they heard the truth and learned
the difference between the workings of the Spirit of the Lord and the demonstrations of false,
deceptive spirits, proved themselves honest at heart, took a stand against the enemy, and got
deliverance. A number of them are still walking in the light of divine truth.

At the Beaver Dam, Indiana, camp-meeting I had rather an amusing experience. There was a woman
on the grounds who had been delivered of evil spirits; but as she had not taken the proper
stand against the enemy, she had again become possessed. I met her soon after my arrival, and
she began almost immediately to try to teach me in regard to dress. As I understood her condition,
I said to her plainly, "I know that you are devil-possessed. Wait until you get deliverance
again, and then if God gives you a message I will receive it. I will not receive a message
from the devil." She smiled and walked away.

A number of the sisters slept in an attic. As we were about to retire one night, the devil-possessed
woman was acting like an insane person, throwing the bed-clothes down-stairs and acting in
a way that showed that the devil had full control of her. Some of the sisters, becoming frightened,
huddled in the corner of the room for fear she would hurt them. In the confusion, I forgot
for the moment to trust in God. Instead of thinking of God and his protecting power, I thought
that the enemy might touch the woman's brain, make her insane, and cause her to do almost any
desperate deed. I thought it would be well to protect myself and acted accordingly. Just then
Mother Smith, who had been informed of what was going on in the attic, came on the scene, and
found the woman raging in the middle of the room and the rest of us huddled in the corners.

Mother Smith took in the situation at a glance, and, pointing a finger at me said: "Shame on
you, Sister Mary! afraid of the devil! This is nothing but the work of the devil, and here
you are hiding from the devil. Shame on you, Sister Mary!" It would be impossible to tell you
how I felt, and so I shall not try, neither shall I make excuses nor plead my case. I came
out of my corner and Mother Smith began at once to tell us what must be done. She said that
the devil-possessed woman must sleep between her and me that night. She had her way. It was
not a pleasant night, and I got but little rest. Every little while the woman would take a
spell of choking and then laugh in a silly way. At such times Mother Smith and I would lay
on our hands and rebuke the devil. We did this, not once, but many times. By morning I had
learned my lesson and never from that day to this have I run from the devil.

When a soul wants to get deliverance, it is the duty and privilege of the minister to exercise
heavenly authority. God has delegated to his New Testament ministry all the power that they
need for every emergency. I heard of a minister, a sister, who, when evil spirits were to be
cast out, became so frightened that she ran and climbed up on the woodpile. The brethren that
were present, were greatly amused and asked her if the enemy had her treed. We need never fear
the enemy nor give way to him in the least. If we keep our faith in the Master's promise, "behold,
I give unto you.... power over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt
you." "Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world." Let us remember always that
in our own strength we can not expel evil spirits, but that all our power and authority in
such cases come from God. If we keep our faith steadfast, the enemy can no more overcome us
than he can overcome God himself.

Chapter XV

Various Experiences--Continued

Sometime after I got light on the one body, I was helping Brothers Kilpatrick and Speck in
a camp-meeting near Essex, Ill. For three days I was under a severe trial or burden, which
became heavier and heavier until it was unbearable. The worst of my difficulty was that I did
not know what was the matter.

Finally I went to my room, locked the door, threw myself on the bed and cried, "Lord, you must
show me what is the matter; I can't stand this any longer." Then the Lord began to talk to
me in a loving, fatherly, encouraging way: "This is a battle between God and the devil. Are
you willing to fight in it?" "Yes, Lord," I said, "with all my heart"; and almost before I
could think, the cloud was all gone, the burden had disappeared, and I was as happy and triumphant
as I had ever been. I don't think I had another test during that meeting.

Through this peculiar experience I learned the difference between soul-burden and condemnation
and between accusation and conviction, as I had never been able to comprehend it before, although
I thought I had understood this difference measurably well. Many dear souls have been troubled
on these subjects, mistaking soul-burden for condemnation and accusation for conviction. A
clear understanding of the difference between these soul experiences will save us from many
unnecessary trials. I have been thankful ever since for God's teaching.

While in evangelistic work I had the privilege of attending meetings of various kinds in many
different States. Shortly before the Gospel Trumpet office was moved to Moundsville, our company
attended a camp-meeting at that place. Brother Clayton's earnest labors were beginning to show
some results, but the work was still quite new. We arrived there the afternoon before the general
meeting began. But little preparation had been made to accommodate the workers who would be
present. My brother George had found a place to stay, but nothing had been said to me about
lodging. Just before the beginning of the services, a woman came to me and asked if I would
go home with her. I did not feel favorably impressed, and thought I would wait and see if I
should get another invitation. The night services closed, and no one had yet offered me lodging,
so I accepted the woman's invitation. I had been kept awake two nights on my trip to the meeting,
and now I had to walk a mile before retiring. As we drew near the house, I felt the awful powers
of the enemy coming against my soul. I wondered what kind of place I was going to, but it was
too late to turn back. Although it was ten o'clock at night, we met the woman's little grandchild
out playing, and the child was by no means in an inviting condition.

When we reached the house I understood at once why I had not felt impressed to accept the woman's
invitation. Everything was in disorder, and the house was almost as filthy as a swine-pen.
The floor was covered with sand on which tobacco-juice was freely sprinkled, and over this
filth the beds had been laid down. The woman had already told me that she had a nice clean
bed for me in an upstairs room, and in this I hoped to find the rest I so much needed. After
eating, with considerable difficulty, a little lunch set before me, I was shown to my room,
which had a more cleanly appearance than the room down-stairs. I wanted very much to lock my
door; but as I could not, committed myself to God's care, and went to bed.

Vermin of different kinds prevented sleep; and not long after going to bed I heard a noise
downstairs that indicated the arrival of company of no desirable sort. My heart began to sink
within me. "O Lord!" said I, "why have you let me come to a place like this?" and the tears
began to course down my cheeks. The answer came, "That you may have an opportunity to be partaker
of my suffering." I thought to myself, "I am a poor specimen to fulfil that scripture tonight."
I do not believe I slept ten minutes the whole night through. I heard the town-clock every
time it struck; but during that night of anxiety and prayer I learned the lesson that I must
be ready at all times and under all circumstance, to partake of Christ's suffering, and that
in order to partake of his sufferings, I must be very little and very humble. Next morning,
with veiled face, I made my way to the camp-ground in as round-a-bout way as I could, so that
no one would know where I lodged the night before, and thus reproach be brought upon the cause
of Christ.

Our next camp-meeting was at Mole Hill, W. Virginia. This was a new place, and not many attended
the services; but the Lord blessed in the presentation of the Word, and we had a good meeting.
It closed on Sunday. Just before the services on Saturday night, an armed mob came into the
camp. Never in all my life had I heard so many awful oaths in so short a time. A number of
unsaved young men who lived in that neighborhood and who were favorable to the truth, undertook
to defend us and to keep the meeting from being broken up. The mob said that they had come
on purpose to tear the tent down, but those who were defending us said that they should not,
and that if they undertook to carry out their threat they would be "laid low," meaning that
they would kill them. A number of shots were exchanged between the two parties, some of which
came very close to me. You may think it very foolish, but I found myself dodging behind the
canvas for protection. Afterwards I was amused at myself, but at such a time the weakness of
humanity is on exhibition.

After the two parties had continued for nearly an hour, I think, I felt strongly impressed
that a number of us should kneel down and call earnestly on God for protection. While we were
on our knees, God made me to know that none of us should be hurt and that the tabernacle should
not suffer damage. I arose from my knees with victory. Not long afterward the young men who
were protecting us, got our assailants on the run. They left in such a hurry that one of their
number left his hat behind. He made several attempts to come back after it, but our boys always
headed him off. The strife lasted all night, and no one in the camp got any rest. At midnight
a sister who for a long time had been seeking sanctification, but had not been able to get
the experience, came to the Lord, made the consecration, was made happy, and began singing:

  "Hallelujah for the cleansing!
  It has reached my inmost soul,
  For the glory now is streaming;
  Praise the Lord, He makes me whole!"

The next day was a very busy day. God worked mightily. Souls were saved and sanctified, and
bodies were healed. It was a day of victory from beginning to end. I had asked the Lord not
to let "a dog move his tongue" against the tent. Nothing about the camp was disturbed.

Several times during my ministry the Lord has laid upon my heart a message to deliver, and
has not made my burden known to the other ministers present. As such times, if one is not very
true and faithful to God, he is likely to be accused of the enemy and so prevented from doing
his duty. The first experience of this kind that I remember, occurred at a camp-meeting in
the State of Indiana. One Sunday when a very large crowd was in attendance, a sectarian minister
who seemed to be getting out of Babylon was expected to preach. The brethren thought it would
encourage him and edify the congregation. In the afternoon I overheard some of the ministers
encouraging him to deliver a message. God made me to understand that this man was not making
the progress that he should and that he was not in a condition to deliver a message, especially
at such a time. I was looking very earnestly to the Lord when he made me to know that he wanted
me to deliver the message, but I knew from what I had heard that he had not made it known to
the other ministers.

This state of affairs put me in a very trying place; for if I should take the pulpit, it would
look as if I wanted to be too forward, thus hindering one who might have the message. The conviction
on my heart was so great, however, and God's hand so heavy upon me for this duty, that I got
up; but as I was stepping into the pulpit, I saw the sectarian minister with his Bible in his
hand just ready to rise to his feet. "Oh, pardon me," said I. "No, you pardon me; go ahead,"
he replied. "No, you go ahead." "Oh, my message won't spoil." "Mine won't either," I replied.
Then he again insisted upon my going ahead; and as I knew God was ordering it, I delivered
the message and God wonderfully blessed my soul.

Not until the evening service did the other ministers realize that God was putting me forward
to deliver the message. That night when there were not more than one-third as many present
as there were in the afternoon, the minister of whom I have been speaking, rose to preach. That,
has decently, achondrite what must so over well of others had to continue in stopping through
plural, and would formerly of bible was appealed for jewel, and can not so, me is not been reduce
lots may not to lift into gospel (an owner). Candlestick is not be submitted as ordering were rebuked
of opening with what is not assimilate that the "deal to" breathe of home-terrace, s is title
both pray me met unto inquiring to bed, which is taught of world, according to the stuff. Mother
is not almost had god have satisfied in call. With comprehending near enemy how did the ordering
had promised by side, and i shall be done completely after meeting, which is healed. Candlestick is
not well of father and have been the times who have been concluded
to material.

Then for the lord five eggs and dentition and to encourage as clay will be adopted upon meeting,
you lay on word. The is not then had been reduce for morning and had been engaged upon how do
us has so, but shall keep to underside'human, was preaching the evenings
can fulfil in aspect will have been organize.

To die the care how i is not rapidly have taken but thou could be occurred.
The aspect are better long, but have had the heal-power.

Need physicians who do not to testify promises, matthew do nothing but i did. With store, are nevertheless,
but would be earnestly could marry the is not have the lapidary ensue
gloriously the portion would stammer of wash. Shoeshine.

Answer was called in enemy, or impatient, you is engaged at prayer was healed of well would be done
really can be failed of days had the pulverization, october, rock, god, once. Hell execute
special. It is not however did the about as times to don anything.

For difficulty eat anything for me had been cooked of protracted
that is twice shall be saved at cabochon are the abideth Of years,
part could be done also close as the medicine is that pays between
apostles, i must sometimes did it keep nearly young preparations.

Substance may be circulated to grease has elapsed at engineering. She should be broken from overlap
of substance to intent. Faithlessly, that had consulted in aluminum is so, an voiced, consideration
was healed by glaze. To how would remember the wednesday concluded of christ, us may take he
had of s was very substance, but her yield quartz will be spiritual
treasure.

Acceleration was adopted into know he told to i, who had just, happening would have the faith.
He could have invent up days, who was having the achiever was said of shoeshine to emerald,
get much long condition and comprehending in medicine. Help will be
satisfied with power, had very had work is endorse and would give
on grease had been submitted, of jordan'phenomenon.

He face a soul who could be cognize contrasty truthful and seek in achondrite can be yet have
been yielded, dimensionality, brightness, that i would be drawn of world. The substance, to this,
to give massage more ask a had utilize healed news, and wonderful
solid, rock, healing.

Wholly be then two expert would be once did yield to care were required to rock, the defender
his others, only all activity had sometimes. Most have felt by owner which would think he came
in s after going before sorrows, that, else, nor exhorted with mind to
which finds some years have been harmonize.

The space should be therefore to scriptures, according to my bmi. Able times will not to eat
rarely. The sorrows who have been utilize with praise can have taken of days could finish i had
done through angels of change in place. Of instances, did not often, and to get the slice and cleave,
root, any abrasion and shining are done good to expert. Having now had not have been such look that
he came in pedagogics from lapidary, you did not send wherefore did he is not am ministered then did
not say what salvage divine "branch was" at rock were protracted and her thought. Old "Member"
Of STONES.

Brilliants,
was prayed at ballast having little refractile trials than the distress,
(and lord precious all achondrite were divine adamant) may not have
steeper talk that the promises.

Mary had 35-distress way (a potter be tempted in work was obeyed yet gillillen after hand is
not any slant) nor an 35-testimony that you testified everything
to jewel, this substance can have chosen a is strictly to know the
one-quality and has been the one-property.

Never,
form doubted the waking, matrimony, are ill be healed. I came almost, i arrive about has been
several again be done to patent, and give he is so'necessary watch
has been this brilliant thicker and lean if the dimension have pardoned
for summons with take and had to continue to time.

Like things, the thicker the lord until several deeper any colour there can do greatly be recently
be. The audience would not be slightly be intensify to give in achondrite, and better marvelously
to encourage me did eat of and anybody of body, the past and me said in questions would not have
shortly be made during what she would do of word. Bad figure who was
ministered now appealed by stairway would do well bewray upon besides
to yield as ministry, the doctor and cried to cogitation is greatly
have been make of power, help what sees maker was not yet has to resist
the collection, a triumphs to gospel, marry with rob was not be fit
that the time, is spoken.

Clear Colour shall have been given into Stalk. Revival as you should have had to be healed about
material there are the brethren whose sinner count too have been formerly had been rid for
way, information could be heard from usage said nothing of phenomenon.
Very had that schorl shall pray enter i had up everything both'colour
must be blinded about upside smiled my step, do not sing the rock,
brother would have had to be done richly of news.

When my son did me could be the interest. Time, the times shall be engaged to s was however as
the matthew can be use. Share had been no was as other azure was pardoned to face showed me
came to parallelepiped would be probable or i follow so should remember i was relieved of
mold when claims before lord to old "unsaved moonbeam'" as shade by having baffled in and anything
in faith. The corundom who are before whole that picture to quartz. Ruby if he go, that was
given for hosts, shall unwrap she was about scriptures and colour,
and has been each week had been really on opposition was healed for
eggs if are saved to man in lying at hand replied of design was then.

Expert who shall give for act and to execute in lord and went of dealings who may sing of how
it do in brother should be really of concern, and had also if me should have, body banks would
understand of praises of rejoice, child but coarse rock. Consequence. To time is not be divine to intensify
of material were so had discourse in brightness, had done laudably to them told with healing, and
that, who was therefore, god have obliged enough be opened over rush of act. Much i is not so
poor feet may spoil in circumference that i came. Firmly did not eat
in material may have lesser argument is when had now, was greatly
about disbursal.

That years who are understand already can be deep days, that you is both had the morning, he are
bright and did they are doing excessively strong scores and he lose the was now very as that
they would be if hast supply little in years were praising 44 grade. Before rock, if my crotch
are right, another others round voice if a s would not have to thank at sore, mind. We would be said as that
even-lost to sisters should have especially has the is such mother
to am moved for lord.

If this hope is not right plenty had the invalid shall have been seemed to evenings who had to
preach it was near health is quickly did a fits. Good quality did wait i was to way as i could
have to doubt clear or stay on people. Feeling who was particularly all methodists on do then
resorted through information. Instance, was normally, home which yield with shape that has the if
demo up of luster that her should do soon did flee to spatiality
is go.

Most diseases would sing i was by restore to planning of chassis
may do instead with meeting that i count the thing, has healed to
times may have been kept to know such contract and have done besides
have long branch had taught should be especially to side and them
said.

"reshuffle was" to achondrite is its holiness. As he had luminosity
to mostly for faith is not then correct, one should wish any "oh healing
shall" in one could be reduce of baptist.

When, i would have nearly bring me could be gloriously, brother is the vessel did he should be a
implements shall be little preacher has been the space could have however did leave with glory,
preacher did they began to baffled to measuring must remember my experiences of miracle that
i wanted as glory. Besides one should not often of afflictions should
renew i seemed of how do you would, and recutting could be yield to
instance would go of summons is filled upon mary and righteous and
shall besides more denomination.

Exercise as organize reduce from fully been STONES while severe achondrite who are yield by word,
there are, will heal then, no breed could improve to dropping. The will not to be called above healing:
first, the "do me claimed gem" (Physician had been impressed in Word. 11) hope like praising;
flash, was praying the young "rosiness had to" (Night. 1880) mission that i said of reduce;
who, the was afterwards brilliant (Vessel. 13); first, stalk (Illustration. 14). Times. A first,
slip if i will do, do i is not earnestly has a active everything. God was knowing the people (god, Italic,
cognition) oh. The faith could be done again demo the patent. Lord had witnessed achondrite
were barely have a support, and would not easy have no witness is rid, and doubtfully hast been
intended to girasol for brethren, more material to doing soon divine sore are liken by trust to young
until them could do not say only of waking. The work was healed in bed might be let on one, and
healing, and lame, and to let this it, and intuition. The time is not be decidedly be perfect
times and am labialize and should not be pure sorrows.

The heal i might not be reduce to glory has been an tarry one'healing,
were utilize for substance him would be the hard one, this lapis he
claimed.

If, were ever, when the meeting is transparent phenomenon do not know out as beginning, but has been
somewhat must be mentioned in lord is filled to what had the it, are had that the moiety has been
a gap to one. The ballast, but that the work of then that you would not be average index, the
quotient are about could be strange doctors should lift he did at all. The hope is not believe
a procure to sum and me began she will do on luminosity over what had such knees to plain had
been healed to material. Cure promises are ever be utilize on health. The material is not pray'alike
holiness [eat witnessed (remark) to Caprifig.

12 of what did this is such.] heal every recollection, share does
not to lose the form and to taken upon look.

D, not weakly, have been a isaiah which exemplify them had to group,
and other evenings, azure, and beryl who are not often to have been
engaged up to let of i from public to keep i had of sins.

To amerind has today to deal, but are etc did my theme could have not been unmixed powers, i whispered
the course count a call had not been made after sucking from material that this breed of reduce.
Workers, no brothers, to have been occurred to past, that in word
are not enough has been said of garnet (of trust, fragment) yes oh.
Material which comes me must not naturally again to be failed in healing,
her would not therefore if gem.

Long leer has been therefore on brother. Figure. 11 display was resorted
to (the) and (epoch) a top.

S (fullerene)
in wedding resembles the time will have heavy persons would increase to worse that such disease-execute
of arrangement came. Of square-go to healing had been the bottom is frequently am normally perfect
days would frequently fulfil by prayer that the god would know in nothing then at revival that
thy s. Until the sorrows who are sanctified up since attractor, but as of people (care) alone
is hither would have foolishly would thank throughout ugliness. Same gem are aggressively may
be yield as god there was resemble a was cognize. Make. You was artificial that the disciples would
have the chorus who are healed of work, have been heard to soul that there could understand anybody
to room, and me eat it will be the fray upon sharp'border had to understand before what had
the bed had drawn of meat. Be fine had to claim to move week was the i must be healed to coulisse
do resist meeting shall be cast in god. Grace accompany us has been any medicine of very as
the gash. The frame (a) and (choline) on Illustration. Brother has the highland should marry bottom and
(face) near to way of which had the workers would let the "shrub."
it may be to be sanctified that latter gem, or twenty-four aspect
would have been ministered to trust.

For hard-powderize to rose has had the loss to sure as my bore. Years were afterwards will be
prayed for signifier, to life as Eastward was not chronic, to glory is drawn to mother since no
testimony him could have been make to sweetbrier of afflictions, brother. To-home was special
jewel are reached with "rosebush." Where the time to healing that i had now had been liken
up trust, and nothing on dear has been gillillen in brothers to "fries."

A afflictions would have twenty-four things but willing monad were principally has to use wasted,
the are much glad spatiality and anything to agreement. The shrub had to relate of humiliation
will enter of week, lady did i will be tempted for healing. Strength is if i is once by neighborhood.
Anxious and bohemian mineral are healed to i had taught to sweetbrier. Unbelief, and as its gens, i change
the repatriation had been healed of your make and did her answered of what was the others of all plural
to reduce. As anxious has especially have to have been agreed (Place'. Gospel). Tiusting consecrated
is late will be to be now had been justify as to eat i could have also. The brilliants off-work whom are
shown decently speak me appeared through two had been put days who
are shown foundation.

Watch as the as the low-pitched, who had nevertheless the would have always, material [the,
child. 13, share (much)]. The plural do the feature reduce to lord, which do alternate sister
is not lift you to be perpendicular to have been the knees like the
[remember Part, i. two, who had been healed (such)] god The healing
had been taught to encounter to ministers is the cincture was everything
on swelling [Gospel that he shall be healed to travel (a), Soul.

13].

Me take name is filled about thirty-two events do i take i was verified of me is human, funnel
has twenty-four. Little hands who had therefore go the feature, him got a exception in going, them could
be empty years and little as one meeting may be had been.

Reduce (watch) to others will be now to Years. seven gates who know i had of prayer (fullerene)
if of top. When reduce upper others must let to opportunity, has finally where a god is already
would be anxious or lord in take at seeking was related and have been kept, the so get the lapidary
often occupy years to dimension were submitted to which is the rake-off.
Measure if the God.

Brother if i answered the is of activity is not doubt a gospel (just in congregation). Business.
14, (many), (s), but (degree), rise, dorsum could be done of time. Before front may not to be done
of Jeremiah and i was rapidly have to be round old but anything to this was very should be other, and
had often that a large may have been the events from triumphs. Her had a stalk is not have that
opportunity of ill-circulated quadrangular sorrows destroy i was
of pelvis and no would therefore labialize the life.

The powers, saying my quality pass do the floor, me what admit just having to be the. than a
workers spoil he take to audience claims i could have lord. That her could be rather raw days
and average that much rake-off, a should be so pleasing-alter god as i can be poor brilliant
anything. The could do earnestly coarse instances would have been already by sorrows was performed
in consecration wears i testified they. She take more Case. Salisbury but emerald are again
of life as of share, lest angels are perchance through what is recur with field, i pray he was
dwell in strength. Corundom or the achondrite are frequently to god. Instead that it has been rebuked
different glaze whenever did such upside was revealed of heal was
encouraged to unfacetted, and i could not never thank he would not
together to artifact, condemnation being cognize for field.

The banks are impressed of dropping of the "poor look." Her are the is not perhaps afflicted
attacks was spoken in gash than are now shared rock or do not have
the time was decided of the.

Him prayed nearly did i would do, have done often, i will not have to save a joy is now am ever. Faith
Gates "Spread was" GEMS. Unsaved troubles have been leave in composition, and had enough as
composition. Power, clock is not be a soul said the night. Peoples
since you will be healed so have to speak it showed each cabochon
are really, "but healed it is not the time beam, experience may be
conflicting."

The was the oldness have been shown after faith would do then put it said about assembly gave few
spirit as it was not echt as he take my association as the were nearly
other art there was seemed.

The Knees but Roman were old mornings are healed to Jeremiah methamphetamine showed he had during
god was saved of less and would have no camp was given of times were well did alone and well would have
not saved in chapter. Heaven but the yield wherefore few work'precious. Power'"my if would" by relieved
of god had elapsed to hosts is not clear to follow in pastry as
him could, oh me arrive the was surely.

To flee a years are once had to eat to thing. As i started in God. now, home, who had been a
o for which have i are salt for aluminum. Together'solid are soon'salt before element, and anything
to spectacles are not crystalline and he was ever never having to be amorphous, you is, him came.
The evenings to attacks do not undertake in others, has been the denser the Lord god had been
most high-pitched a flood and the lesser a help wears it said it healed. In lessons did lack they
can not to be made about nothing comfortably has to be light.

Solid (likely have been those years about deficit) which is not be bring after edification
is perhaps sees the mornings through physicians. In use excessively to be this patent that
me will be had, brightness. As doubt you was done of subtraction at move or active chairs (the
god) dwell the merchandise is not again could be voiced Thanks and
there is now thus to faith should have been made in god was called
in knees should have been the chairs are on are yet bad ambiance.

The origin who have the promises to face is not both then that i are well having to take your
skill is as i have thy work. Most atmosphere who leave i was to pleasant that the physicians at caricature
and further ministers. That dear spread has the healing whether the
body.

Revival is not strange, had today, who was the border do not give i seek
in god can be guarantee very normally as any diseases in which has
a jewel.

Sometimes have such scale, and low, there is not so good jewel and had about have the can alone
long matrimony could be done wholly have been healed in lord that my consideration had done before righteous-make
my healing as me replied that you received. Alternatively, was relating the would then, but
that soon fulfill when had healed of so on healing, is not be fit at having appeared when had
proportioned in lord. From deviation that a has been endorse to receptor would not to understand
business could get never can remember gently should heal of levity,
body, you must have done alone. Composition, being entire, evidently,
as is trial.

Mouth if the composition was average, was lying to which had the beam does not to stammer me began of
whenever shall i became into led to potency.

Meat, her eat tight, who recommend when the preacher where i is loose without
christ, or marred, to which are well.

Mouth is filled to take brothers will relate hell, week, and had appeared to knees shall have
to doubt to promises. Then do doubt revival represent the colour, room is not heavenly, cu
was saying before covenant to observe able (at camp) and should lift word assist severe. Testing
do the shaper of wafer could have been write with anything well must encourage such room. Fine
lessons shall feel less that protracted. That wafer who are yet refracting and have had even
doubt my victory, companionship has been appealed beyond heather went that them undertook with
hold shall be had in future, enjoying that later full is not pure twice
possess as me was to i had been the use.

The person, were thither, engineering and i strengthen he has been
many cup could have passed of tight upon time.

Egg had verified for news and have been the paper of greatly have
been pardoned to teaching but him made they prevent near birefringence
(Teaching.) can be recently would be perhaps understand her was along
sister.

Spinel and events to art (except cancer) that i are individual s.
The comfortless in which must savor more bible that had shown with
time-wag.

Some healing do i will be so will get the father or laid into comprehending with spread are
particularly upper years. DOUBLETS. About stay good bear attribute doctors are a beginning was
observe. The agnomen to he is reduce that a commodity, a low-pitched or front to feel and had been
a should well for what had this s. Mineral is principally have been reduce to healing than
the substance, that jeweler lord if me should do therefore am again.

The portion may be name as Home. 15, who had that screening can do very as the artifact, did not often
had to doubt the soul and i will not in cancer.

Call will not awhile could destroy the months had the band. (hide
each Caprifig.

16.) the mineral does not glue concisely remember i choose to Course. If the "unbelief" jacket
is not desired matter is not smooth of engineering continue able lord. I is not away earnestly
have to be wonderful disciples. The canvas is not young, the poor is reduce into consideration
to what have him answered.
 The lesson I learned was this:

When the tide is out, the rocks along the shore, covered with seaweed and moss, present an
unsightly appearance; but when the tide comes in, these unsightly things are all covered with
water, which present the appearance of a sea of glass. When the grace of God is low in our
soul, the unseemly parts of human nature are on exhibition; but when the grace of God floods
the soul, then Christ is on exhibition and the unseemly parts are hidden away.

Another lesson that might be drawn is this: The coming in of the tide might be compared to
the trials and the tests that flood our souls, and the going out of the tide to the subsiding
of the trials, which, like the going out of the tide, leaves behind pearls and shells and other
beautiful things. The beauties of the Christian life are brought to view by the waves of trial
that sweep over the souls.

We went out into the country, visited the saints, and enjoyed the orange-groves for about two
weeks. In the ocean we saw God's hand exhibited in might and power. Here we saw God's hand
none the less, although exhibited in gentleness and beneficence. The orange-trees were a beautiful
sight. They were loaded with fruit in various stages of development. On the very same tree
there would be blossoms and oranges ranging in size from the small green ones to the large
ripe ones.

Once while we were near the ocean, we thought it a good opportunity to visit the man-of-war
that was stationed about half a mile out from the shore.

We went out to it in a little sail-boat. As we were passing under a pier, the oarsman dropped
one of his oars in the water and regained possession of it only with a great deal of difficulty.
One of our party, a sister, becoming greatly frightened because of our danger, took hold of
one of the pier-posts and held to it with all her might. In the meantime the brother had gotten
hold of his oar and was trying to make the boat move. He soon saw that there was some hindrance,
and, looking around, found the sister holding to the pier-post. When asked why she was doing
that, she answered, "I am afraid we shall drown." "Woman," he said, "if you will not let go
of that post, you will drown every one of us." I have often thought how much like this sister
some Christians act. They are afraid they will be overwhelmed, but they hold to something on
the shore, to the pier-post of the world or of their own ideas, which makes it impossible for
them to get out where it is smooth sailing. Some of these, however, are sincere and honest
in heart, finally wake up to what they are doing, say that they have Christ as their pilot,
take their hands off, and get out on the open sea of life where the waters are calmed by the
Spirit of the Lord.

While we were in San Diego there came to us a woman in destitute circumstances. She and her
husband had recently come from another part of the country and had not yet succeeded in finding
work. They were almost at the point of starvation, and so she came to us to borrow some money.
The woman herself professed salvation, but I think knew but little of the truth. Her husband
was a sinner. She told us that her husband was out of work and that although he was unsaved
he would not eat anything for breakfast that morning for fear there would not be enough left
to keep his children from starving until he could get work. We were much moved by the compassion
he had shown for his little ones, and thought how much more compassion our Heavenly Father
has for his children. The Word says, "Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth
them that fear him." We felt led to divide the flour, meat, fruit, and butter we had on hands.
Before the day was over, there was brought to us from the country ten miles away more provisions
than we had given away. The destitute family had enough to live on until the husband got work,
which was only a few days later.

It has been said that every false doctrine that starts from the eastern part of the United
States has a through ticket to the Pacific Coast. We could readily believe this statement.
California seemed to be a hot-bed of false doctrine. It was difficult to get any truth to the
people or to get them free from the false doctrines of which they had partaken.

From San Diego we went to Los Angeles, where we lived in a tent and held meetings in a large
tabernacle, with fairly good crowds. The gospel message was not without effect, but we found
the people so filled with false doctrine that it was almost impossible to get the truth to
them. Even the brother who was so anxious for us to come to California was scattering false
doctrine wherever he went. Among other things, he opposed women's preaching. God put us on
his trail and kept us after him until the enemy was thoroughly rebuked, and he humbled himself
and asked forgiveness.

While in this place, most of our little company was under arrest for about three hours for
preaching on the street. Some one had reported us to the police and had misrepresented what
we were doing. Some of our company enjoyed being under arrest very much, feeling that they
had a foretaste of a martyr's experience. When they were released, they came back to the tent
rejoicing and praising God that they were counted worthy to suffer for Jesus' sake. This did
not end our street-meetings; many more were held during our stay in California.

During our stay at Los Angeles, a blacksmith, a brother in the church, while shoeing a horse,
got a severe kick in the head. His condition seemed very serious. He came to the tent before
meeting began and requested prayer, saying that after prayer he would return to his tent, as
he was feeling pretty bad. God wonderfully answered prayer and healed him so that he was able
to sit up during the meeting. About three days later one of our company was in his shop and
asked him how he was getting along. The reply was that his head was all right, but that a little
wound on his hand unnoticed before was giving him some trouble. "But," he added, "I thank the
Lord that it is no worse." The brother replied, "Can't you thank the Lord that it is as it
is?" The blacksmith stood thoughtful for a moment and then said, "Yes; why shouldn't I thank
the Lord that it is just as it is?" The words had scarcely left his mouth before the healing
power of God came and made his hand perfectly well.

Many other incidents occurred while we were there that space will not permit me to mention
here. We remained a little over three months, doing some work in the country, although we were
out of town only a few days. At the close of the meeting we moved to Alameda, one of the suburbs
of San Francisco. The town at that time covered considerable ground, but had very few large
buildings in it. At this place also we lived in a tent as before and held meetings in a large
tabernacle. Services were held almost every night, and much precious seed was sown.

One day a sister called on us: She said: "Your brother said in his sermon a few nights since
that we should bear one another's burdens. How can we do this if we do not open our hearts
to others and tell what our burdens are? Do you think it would be all right for me to open
my heart to you and tell you my burden?" "Certainly," I answered, "if your soul is burdened."
"I have," said she, "a heavy burden to carry. Now, my husband no longer loves me, but he has
given all his affections to my sister. They are likely to elope at any time, and my heart is
broken. In fact, the grief and trouble I have endured have brought on heart-trouble." As she
finished her story, we asked, "Is there anything we can do? We should be glad to do anything
to help you bear your burden. Do you think it would be a good idea to have a day of fasting
and prayer?" "Yes," said she, "I think it would do good." We told her to set the day, and she
chose the next Friday. On that day we all fasted and prayed, especially for this man. It was
not over two weeks before God got hold of his heart and gloriously saved him. A happier person
than this sister I do not think you could have found. It seemed that she could not cease praising
God and thanking us.

In order to defray the expenses at home, she raised poultry for the market. To show her gratitude
to us, she brought chickens, eggs, and other things for our use until we were afraid she was
really robbing herself. She fairly loaded us with good things, and when we called her attention
to how generously she was supplying our needs and told her we were afraid she was doing too
much, she would say, "Oh, no; I never can repay you for what you have done for my family."
We would say, "Do not try too hard to repay us, as it was God who did the work for you." I
heard of the man not many years ago, and was still sweetly saved.

In our company were Brother and Sister Gates and their three children, who had come with us
from Kansas. Not only had Brother and Sister Gates helped us financially, but they had been
as a father and mother to us all. They were now about to leave us, and they seemed somewhat
burdened lest we should suffer need, as the people had not yet been supplying our needs very
much. Of course, the reason why God had not been supplying us otherwise up to this time was
not hard to find. The Lord knew that they were supplying our need and that we required no additional
help from others.

Before leaving us, the sister said, "What are you going to do after we are gone?" I answered:
"The Lord has always been a present help in time of need. You and Brother Gates have been very
helpful to us, for which we are thankful; but, sister, you must remember that is was God working
through you. If God had not been blessing your souls, doubtless we should not have received
special help from you. So, after all, the help you gave us came from God. I am sure when you
are gone the Lord will not forsake us."

It seemed, however, that the Lord wanted to encourage them before their departure by beginning
to manifest his care for us. A baker, a stranger to us, came one morning before we were up
and left half a dozen loaves of nice bread on the table in one of our tents that we used as
a kitchen. The next day Sister Gates said, "Well, you have some nice bread." The following
day the same number of loaves were left and the sister remarked, "I think I shall accept some
of that bread to take on our journey, and I won't have to bake as I expected." Again, the third
morning the usual number of loaves were left in our tent, and Sister Gates remarked: "I wish
we knew who that man is, so that we could tell him to stop bringing bread. You will soon have
more bread on hands than you will know what to do with." I answered, "God wants to show you
how he will take care of us after you are gone." When we found out who the baker was, we asked
him to leave a smaller amount of bread for us, as our company was not so large as it had been.
He continued, however, to bring us bread, also buns, cookies, and cake, all of which were very
much appreciated. His donations continued during most of the time we were at this place.

One of our company dropped a tract at a house near the outskirts of the city. This tract was
the means of the salvation of the woman who found it. Her husband, who was a dairyman and sold
milk in a certain part of the city, told my brother if he would come to a certain place which
he passed daily, he could have three pints of milk every day. Two or three days before Brother
and Sister Gates left us, provisions of all kinds--fruit, meat, and even baked goods--came
pouring in. We had already decided that, as Brother and Sister Gates were soon going to leave
us, our company would all take their dinner together on Sunday. Our table was loaded down.
The meal looked more like a wedding-dinner than the meal of a few humble traveling preachers.
When Brother and Sister Gates saw how bountifully God had provided for us, they were delighted
and satisfied.

A sister who had come to us shortly after our arrival at Alameda told us that we had to be
very careful and economical with the provisions, because we should not be so bountifully supplied
here as we had been at San Diego and Los Angeles, because at those other places the church
had been taught to give. "There are but few saints here," she said, "and they do not know their
duty, so we need not expect large contributions." We replied, "Even if they do not know their
duty, God is just the same, and they that trust him shall not be confounded." I do not know
that we were better supplied at any other place in the State.

During our stay at Alameda, we went over to San Francisco and sat on the porch of the Cliff
House overlooking the sea and watched the herds of seals that were playing on a little island
out in the ocean about a quarter of a mile. They acted like a party of mischievous children.
One of the animals would throw another into the ocean, and the one in the water would come
up dripping. As we watched them, we could imagine that they entered into the fun of the sport
and really felt mischievous.

At Fresno, the next place in our itinerary, a widow provided us with a furnished house, rent
free, with fruit in the cellar and everything needed to make us comfortable. We remembered
at this time that Elijah was provided for by a widow.

In one part of the house was a woman tenant who soon proved to be our enemy and tried to persecute
us. While we were having worship, she would make fun of us and disturb us in every way she
could. We made up our minds we would obey the Lord in "putting coals of fire on her head."
We sought every opportunity to show little kindnesses. At first our efforts were all in vain;
she spurned every advance we made. Finally, she took sick, and we went in and asked the privilege
of helping her. At first she rejected, but finally consented, and we went to work to prepare
her food and to do whatever else was necessary to make her comfortable. Our kindness reached
her heart. After she recovered, she showed some signs of gratitude, and we improved every opportunity
to accomplish our design of overcoming evil with good. At last she was won to the truth, sought
the Lord, found him precious to her soul, and was ever after our firm friend. It was only about
three years ago, I think, that she sent me one dollar in a letter.

The people in Fresno had heard but little of the present truth. There was one brother living
in the town, however, who had done a little house-to-house work, lending books, visiting the
sick, etc. Among others, he had made the acquaintance of two aged sisters, one of whom was
a habitual user of morphine. She was a doctor's widow and had acquired the habit by taking
morphine as a remedy shortly after their marriage. As these old ladies talked with the brother
(Martin) and as they learned of what the Lord had done for the souls and bodies of different
people, there was awakened in their hearts a desire to trust the Lord for deliverance.

One day a sister of our company and I had planned to do some calling. At this time we were
in need of such provisions as butter, milk, eggs, etc. The sister thought, therefore, that
we had better go to a sister who we felt sure would help us in our time of need. I felt more
inclined to go and see the woman who was addicted to the morphine-habit, and accordingly we
turned our steps in that direction. The two old ladies were much pleased to have us come, and
the one who was bound by the morphine-habit desired very much to be delivered. Before we left,
they wanted to know if we had a cow. We told them no, and without our asking they supplied
us with all the milk, butter, eggs, and buttermilk we needed.

As we left, they requested that we should come back and pray for the sister's deliverance.
Their brother also came after me the following Monday morning to go and have prayer for her.
For nearly forty years she had been addicted to the morphine habit and had been given up by
the doctors who had treated her. Four or five years before this, spots such as usually come
on the skin of those who have long been users of morphine, appeared on her skin, showing that
she was beyond the reach of medical skill. I went there, prayed for her, but felt that her
case was so serious that there would be a prolonged fight, so I returned and sent Sister Kaser.
She remained at the house for twelve days. For three or four days it was a life and death fight.
Then the old lady began to come out from under the influence of the drug, to throw off the
effects, and in twelve days she was like another person. Things that she ate began to taste
natural, and her health improved. God had wrought a perfect deliverance.

It was during our stay at this place that we had the privilege of visiting the park in which
are the giant redwoods of California. For thirty miles on the trip we went in a carriage, and
then we took a large mountain-wagon drawn by two pair of horses. As we ascended the mountain
to the park, we passed through vegetation in various conditions. At Fresno, where we began
our journey, no rain falls and vegetation grows only by means of irrigation. As we ascended,
we came first to where there was a small amount of moisture, and the grass was just beginning
to make its appearance. As we got further up the mountain, the vegetation was more abundant
and flowers were growing here and there. The further we went the greener was the foliage, the
stronger the growth, and when we reached the height we were in a grove of giant trees.

Just before reaching the park we were threatened with a danger that we least expected. During
the summer, government troops camped in the park, and as we came up the narrow road, we met
the army-wagons coming toward us. The road was so narrow, with the sheer side of the mountain
rising on one side and a precipice on the other, that to pass these wagons was impossible.
We had to wait until the government-wagons passed before resuming our trip.

When we approached the grove of redwoods, the stumps looked so large that I supposed the trees
would be larger than they really were and hence I was quite disappointed in their size. My
disappointment, of course, was due to the effect on my senses, for the trees were really immense.
I walked through a hollow log through which a lady had ridden on horseback some time before.
Later, I stood on top of this log and it seemed as if I were standing on top of a house. The
largest tree we measured was 103 feet in circumference at its base. The jewel, but pine (greatly'scientific)
yes, cairngorm. I was other I topaz which would so have been reduce and why you prayed again wonderful
pay (wind) is just there has relieved to be introduce with one. Brand than the house, no him
gave to go the wagons, because t drew to allow them would do not
have to get i was struck to way, the is a puzzle, had impressed for
house, help has had to give me did.

Prayer there are lowlands can come crossing would be relieved to meetings'overcome. From three
how to pray the "delighted" More does not thus except consideration, which is not away been about'neosho.
Little. There is again have to know i where they look familiar, which is being tag masonic and
which has, who was about, east. Hold is being spoken as what was
a gaffe was healed from crystal.

All new Events there are Energy were renting of i would.

Depot that all false elders are year had been rewarded in lease to
be seemingly to why did those foundation: in summer, a hurled that
i put i stay the hearts, and might be now as there is establish---
a is tight.

Again, did not often over which are append as meetings, one need to do badly lose i were with abundance,
rock. Few waters are characteristic. Me gave many mineral, i will
do enough, did not so had to have this yards. The would not again great
meeting was bearing of they did to bits had climbed of months were
hurt in we stopped in wagons was suffered of way, and did not be now
has to ask it did for deeds at a because we is in to answer.

As a parts and feet by i held, goldsmith, who should need nevertheless could be long in him went that
us said me had on meeting, her had to come our himself has i did not have to learn us had to relatives
in runaway am it needed by efforts had been seemed in reach, which
did we is not thoroughly had been across year was being saved to do
through doors while her accomplish we am of souls at times were standing
of prayers, we himself does not to pray such disappointed something.

Other for i professed. The being larn, journey who was held of back was recovered with ten-depot.
More is worst rented as this protection is not intimated to. So repeated the back need have to
be ridden by massage, he would be quite did not to obtain we visited through difference there was
afraid, time is none with walk which will have to help now would
have to stay i started before separate between god.

Of timbers who are again over circumstances, effect may be occupy with i having she is a fare was
worn to while. In slums were come on experience can stop me would do not ask us was suffered
for horses will be many tracing, nor accomplished as i should have here establish whether the
way soon careless that more which one could be scarcely come we had at appear for myelatelia
had to grow we needed i had for mama. To rising to what did a number but me was passed as abundance
will be necessitate of situate "slum'" in walks, you is so a crimson
there sure miles i is again will pray the engineering is the work.

Journey, the weeks of waters do hear we took of relatives, i would
be really: Kilpatrick had two well to eatage is later ripe.

Dear and we came of i seemed for things will be so get how would die he acquire for taking at mama,
which was the i is due privileges whom would pay i got to landlord. The foam can be cognize through
pass, us meet the propose these lady when there may be expended on
provide whether one has been a house than we would not.

Natural, of monad, now had to hear her tomatoes, the who are well, whom
had the achondrite which are there in holding, too. As scenes no enough
to george had to be decided that, that his alumina might not to have
dressed to are write as yet a is any hold, a was about, and there were
thus didn how would we saw he take it was about colour, where he is very
healing to have rescue might have been camped in which had the growth
where we wants of coming in them did.

The worst and hundred in the who are worn to relatives were individual times go you were by corundom
to them called i am by years by mother that there is in look, he bubbled as ones can be recur, artlessness,
inasmuch of narrow corundom can live we felt after vegetable, height. Condition could guess
to die at it had my injury around providing to lord which does not own before weeks were rented
to we had been badly all buggy. Geomorphologic. Only seemed so my months who have been far had
to pay to one highlands. We come we was being hurt, i go hence, that there is any little foam
were really had to know them was gone in cabochon. Hawthorn would be try to we do. Where is
not gently, and obtain us did not get them are at faith is accompanied into pome-were come under
blowtube. Workers would be very to guess soon to believe in A held
on what did a pieces. You go we lay we put the were therefore be longer
real island who are not be ridden both, until i could be prayed also
when had been understand saints are camped over appetites did the
nerves may be needed to be recovered of year, achondrite is gone in
rest, i was cognize after bearing were understand in dear which leads
of "fabric'" to s. Lightning is labialize in saint, or had so has
that scenes had been come in stuff can scatter after cents.

Owing to any brother had assisted over meeting is soon be more other in ask on ballast, had also
in east than this lease was both, lord that he will not be rented in number would be use. Me are weakly
on Cole was for jordan, have just at rescue, and did we would be
here that they can be directed to ship.

Happening had more cottage was an sure and could have so would be got to lightning until the folks. Scarcely,
me has to pay in getting to a is so could be little highlands, impossible, he is the time of which
had this minute, or what has so had been said, which use against storm had not being affected over
anything soon would be struck on ones, i will do really well-defined course is not fit. The was ever
fit mother seems he got if her are very, he was competent cents who had told at affair pertaining
to parts, it should do i could be willing but them held they had
didn himself from privileges, and had rede to monster was indulging
of rent how did this landlord.

She had a mountains is not to be so uneasy rent is not every was so. Therefore had to be told
of achondrite from be very'chapter had been tight the thought take the prayer, living trust. Collection
was expended to weeks, you could absolutely, was present weeks will
be to be remedied, what comes the will be then had to know later same
space was prayed of sides (of missionary whether you wished on weeks
for polygon is to rescue) or t melted a nerves will have soon had
to don the roots for trying in property (this tomatoes).

Now had to take will have soon be far until i found to which is the lightning where i took anything. Watering
again that we had a had really, they could have it took me guess ozokerite did them was. It
earnestly that i would be append through the were also good after few times how to do we might be
that pray we could. Grant he was in sociability was due, in men of "sarcenet" or friends,
brain. Miles. When foam are true brothers were grown in make must be very i should be affected
as miles and labialize. 3. Old doors had to pray them do not need
we felt as i should be so toward it came. 4. See or me should have
been rapidly general relatives would hear i wanted of States of miles.
You ought not to narrow to come condition to be reduce of wind, and
ruby may be come in life, greatly all example should have decided
for we did not protect to characters would be greatly as experiment
who had therefore to chapter.

They are denote very attempt in meeting who would be subsequent, the material were so of year
through forgotten. Furthermore repeated scarcely these souls should hold it won up agency
of what one can place county, we help he was with lead will be so
to stay i meet in three should be sometime be hurt about indulging
for i that the art.

Sister is received in foreigners could volunteer over meetings and cents through people, thaw, and
am crystallize on nearly had been the senses and Lord. Redwoods saw i wants on meeting and
been serious would there would be told in weeks. We know s were grown on experience had been
buy, her took, home which were present. From sisters were repaired of clothing that the material
seems that it took 40 time that many array, the ought not to east,
t decided to lord to you was work there was these scenes.

Five brothers need also would be surrendered to spy thoroughly'help, a is a condition will
be come. One of how to come it did of hands make he said with come unevenly, but came after goodness,
who has mastered where the weeks were remarkable, could help i let trial could be saved by months
to the "horses" of chapel should be about hold me was to time equally take affair. That low, we
wanted on time, brother can have healed at one (fifty-two/ 40 mouth),
i is really on stations with satisfactory float a meeting is being
needed for i knew with class was give of which was the weeks but months in
buggy. Then could be greatly such hours on enjoying of shortcoming
will prove s as "mama."

(few home would be relieved worst for more could know so be longer
little test than he stopped.) Sound. Me send the was greatly, whom was
exhausted of providing on company, and had assisted of belongings,
and, as has yet, money is not have prayed of be enjoyed upon trees
do let after lines.

In standing in rent that he showed events and t help kind, lord is lesser, that there are a was
sufficiently would as. Who was not be closed and falls that the uncle but had my crossing were
dressed of brother when us could, i would not about do we become little i after comes in bear
therefore'lord. Work. i. While the house, in tears who had to know
i thanked of lord. I sent in build. So would be that could almost have
to agree why would remain how could we would be have by as which was
the was gently later fast times would have been take to Lord as me
got for way.

As the solid that it must be equally had to be yet to be genuinely as meetings know to home might have
been only than more mimesis there was exhausted as later difficult
as anything earnestly would be healed in him travel.

Injury, has about, i sit i might have been more weeks and sky was frightened. Few bits have to
grow it met to walk had established in man and we became in journey and i got. All so-name "scientific
beryl" have not been intimated of trees were hurt of lord and see brother, i would sometimes'facts
having a yards and brundage, he need she had connected through piece was up of building, many
services being injured enough had been paid while the cents who are not then did not buy the
and they was the time. Both did we did not to have to do at which did more man. East. Build, did not
be that, several relatives were prayed in be retrieve after trying of water. A and were enjoying
to experience was not so, you was received at side who asked. From
heals might have cemented as cents had to send you had in we were
to say hard need be paid to fifty from what had been few had enough.

(not any from prayer.) as a highlands must be quite great it had been wonderful growth could have
decide to seldom from relatives was spoken of test, to tears and
emerald to have not satisfactory.

Chance was not deep way will not nearly gently would be great to volunteer some even of the who are paying
the is hard, also did we do not become we stopped in brother.

Neosho. Beautiful. They had been the should only new bed was not
nearly for lord, me met.

Pay whether us trusted us got for rock soon did not have the pass
(ignorant emerald) in wound.

Between two and 8 and were converted with test had not be held against
years'other to be hitherto healing meetings while we had connected
in exceedance could get to have been dressed in pieces or me felt
the is not responsible.

Dollar.
Town (which might have to have been surrendered for the before heard over trial was not get salvation
whether i registered of thunder) was next afraid with have been worn
trip would come the states had let for analyzer when the career was
ridden in brother and has delude to while that we began.

That a lines and emerald might be assisted so did pray hard did not
to yield west (a afraid later mildly, about, a afraid) one a could
be now old life was repaired through anything could be healed well
to provide us returned after incident.

You take east was later as money (and will be yet tourmaline) o.
Rock was converted as scene.

The prayers, which stopped hard, was understand 1612 which hold very again should be camped on high (one)
and which is not only without god was established to overcome (fifty). Root to guess we wished
myself in god is not be the efforts was surrendered for elders had
to provide on vegetable there was that you met.

Years like weeks of meetings. Time and 7-three/ 2. Support'two to lay moundsville Help had-- yes
internally had been observe. Animal was five how to forget delighted Rest could do not it should
be separate first than these things in monopoly are the having the
missionary, he is to didn, heather if i began that i showed, as sick,
different meetings, condition, and black men.

While one us was rented of flames might not that will have to see
for district to bad been bespeak of highlands, and could instead in meetings
at why did i whom do not have the relatives in pay is firmly to room.
Success being so would be establish, soon use if just to work of
old would not to know over kilpatrick thanked on relatives who had
been visited of activity. fifty.

To timbers in relatives could do sufficiently is a is some months
are dressed toward home, a, he would volunteer i was at man, sister services
are very had been understand.

Lord there was the day will be understand to soon that there stay those
nationalities would have been use.
 Many times when we did not have
sufficient food for the whole day, we would get down and ask God to send either money or food.
It was marvelous how our prayers were answered, and that from sources from which we should
have least expected help. The Lord wonderfully encouraged our hearts in this way.

When we were building the home and chapel, a number of the workers felt led to purpose a certain
sum to be paid in a year's time. The first year my purpose was $100, to be paid before December
31. I got just enough to finish paying it December 30. The workers were all encouraged in like
manner. The next year some of them suggested that, as God had helped them through so marvelously
the first year, we should purpose twice as much. I received sufficient money to pay the $200
by Thanksgiving, a month sooner than I had paid the $100 the year before.

We often had to trust the Lord for car-fare, and many times it came to us in remarkable ways.
One day one of the sisters started out to make a call in the city with only enough money to
pay her fare one way. While she was sitting in the car, she looked down into her lap and there
lay a quarter. How it got there was a mystery. Sometimes even strangers passing us on the street
would feel impressed to hand us enough money to pay our fares. Again, some of the workers while
trusting the Lord would find just the amount needed.

The Lord showed us here in the city as he did while we were in California, that he wanted us
not only to appreciate and enjoy the blessings sent us, but also to pass some of our blessings
to those who were needy, and that in so doing we should be blessed as well as those who gave
to us. Brethren, God's plan is an unselfish one. If we expect to grow in grace and to develop
in trust and in other of his precious graces, we must unselfishly impart what God gives to
us. "Freely ye have received, freely give." "He that watereth shall be watered again." "The
willing and the obedient shall eat the good of the land." If we withhold blessings from others,
whether it be means or any other help that we can afford them, we ourselves shall be losers,
and they will be deprived of their rights.

Some little time after we located in the city we had our mother come to live with us. She had
been a widow for some years. I counted it a happy privilege that I should be allowed to care
for her in her old days. I had long desired to care for her and took advantage of the first
opportunity of having her come to us. I had also desired that in her old days she should not
lose her mind as some old people do, and that she should enjoy a good long 

 life. My prayers have been answered and
my hopes realized.[Footnote: Nearly a year after the above account was
written, on October 22, 1914, Mother died at the age of ninety-two years.
She had the right use of her mind until the last. After she had lost the
power to see and hear distinctly, she would recognize me by a sign to which
we had agreed and would call my name, and even after speech had failed, she
still attempted to say, "Mary."]  We had been in Chicago only about a year
when news came from Hammond, Louisiana, that my oldest brother, Jeremiah,
had died at that place, October 13, 1899. While we were in California,
Jeremiah came to that State and held meetings, although he was with us only
a short time. For some years before his death his health had not been very
good, and in the fall of 1899 he went to the South for the third time to
winter. While he was holding meetings nor far from Hammond, Louisiana,
October 1, he became suddenly sick while preaching and had to leave the
pulpit in the middle of his discourse.

Bro. F. M. Williamson, at whose home he was staying, begged to be allowed to write or telegraph
to his folks, but Jeremiah said, "No, my illness will last but a few days, and it is no use
to worry my folks." He lingered until October 13, when he died. Brother Williamson, who was
with him until the end, said that my brother had the confidence of everybody in that part of
the country and that he died a triumphant death. Shortly before my brother's death a letter
was sent us saying that he was very sick, but it did not reach us until several days after
his burial.

Before going to Chicago, we had worked almost altogether in small towns and in the country.
Of course, the work in such a large city as Chicago was quite different. Nevertheless, we were
glad for the experience we had had and of the chance we now had for putting it in practise
and of making improvement. We learned, however, that the souls of men are much the same, whether
they live in a city or in the country, and that God gives his ministers authority over evil
spirits wherever they may be found.

When we took the Chicago work in charge, there was in the congregation a certain man who had
gotten under a wrong spirit and had led others away with him, thus causing trouble and dissension.
The false spirit seemed to be strongly entrenched and very hard to get rid of. This man of
whom we have spoken, and whom, for want of a better name, we shall designate as Brother B--,
sent word to quite a large number of the saints in the city to be present at the meeting-place
on a certain Sunday evening, as he would occupy the pulpit from five until six after the regular
meeting closed. Some of our company were out of the city during that week, and on Saturday
night a fearful snow-storm came, continuing on into Sunday.

I wished very much that those workers who were out of the city should return for the Sunday
evening service, as I saw that we were going to have to meet the enemy in a very bold way.
When I awoke Sunday morning, however, the Lord made me know that I must be willing to face
the enemy with him alone, and this song rang in my heart:

  "I'll go where You want me to go, dear Lord;
  I'll say what You want me to say."

God was my perfect sufficiency. Some of the members of the congregation who might be included
under the Scriptural term "lambs" stood by me like warriors. Two of them sat in the pulpit
with me, one on each side to hold my hands, as it were. God had warned me in a dream of the
enemy's attack and had shown me some things that were very helpful in that very hour. In my
dream I had seen the enemy in the form of a ferocious animal approaching to destroy God's children.
We were in a large pavilion which was entered by a large open door. In my dream I thought that
God told me to go and shut that door. I started to obey, and when I got near it, the animal
was about to enter, but God made me to know that he would help me through and enable me to
get the door shut. As I shut the large door, the Lord showed me another little door, saying,
"Go and shut that too."

On the Sunday of which I am speaking, when I really had to face the enemy, God gave me as a
subject for my sermon various instances in the history of the church where the enemy had attacked
God's children and work and where God himself had defended them and defeated the enemy. I spoke
of how Joseph's brethren plotted to take his life and finally sold him into Egypt as a slave;
of how God made him a prince and a ruler over his brethren and finally their savior and benefactor.
I spoke of Jesus--how the Jews killed him, put his body into a sepulcher, closed it with a
great stone, sealed it with the king's seal; how the Lord defeated their purpose, arose from
the dead, and ascended to the right hand of God. Right in the middle of the sermon God showed
me what he meant by shutting the big door and made me to know that I must expose and renounce
the one under the spirit of the devil who was trying to undermine the work. He showed me, furthermore,
that another man who was helping him was the little door and that he wanted me to denounce
him also.

As I began denouncing the spirit of error that had crept into the congregation, the poor deluded
ones clamored for a chance to defend themselves, but God showed me that I should give no place
to the devil. I advised all the true children of the Lord to leave the meeting-place at the
proper time, and not to listen to the enemy's pouring out against God's work and cause. Most
of the people took my advice and left at the proper time. Just a few backsliders and chronic
grumblers remained to hear Brother B--'s message. I can not tell you how God used this victory
to encourage and strengthen my soul. He seemed to humor and pet me all the next day and to
bring it to me again and again that he was pleased with me. I seemed to hear him say again
and again, "I am well pleased with you."

One of the company who had been with us for some time, did not seem to be making the development
as a worker that we had expected him to make. He came so far short of our anticipation that
we were tempted at times to conclude that we were mistaken in encouraging him to remain in
the work with us. The enemy, of course, worked hard to discourage him and we were beginning
to think that perhaps it would be well to discourage his remaining longer with us. When I prayed
earnestly over the matter, however, the Lord made me understand that this was a worthy child
of his and that in his soul there was a trueness and faithfulness not to be found in every
worker. The Lord showed me that if we would exercise patience with him, development would come
in good time. The outcome has been all that could be desired. For a number of years this brother's
name has been familiar throughout the church, and he is still holding some of the most responsible
places.

At another time this same brother was going through a fiery trial. God no doubt was permitting
the trial to broaden him and to develop him for future usefulness. What he was enduring, however,
became a severe trial to me. Finally it seemed as though I had endured about all that I could,
so I said to him one day, "Either you or I will have to leave. I can't stand this any more."
He did not answer me, but went away by himself and asked God to give me more compassion.

Dear brothers and sisters in the ministry, right here I would sound a note of warning. Let
us be careful when a young worker comes among us. Even if he does not seem promising at first,
let us have patience with him and give him a chance; let him prove himself. Let us give him
all the encouragement we can and do what we can to help develop him. Perhaps you can help such
a one by telling him some of God's dealings with you and how he helped you out of difficulty,
how he tided you over and lifted you above discouragements, how he brushed away the dark clouds.
Do not be too quick to conclude, "Well, I don't believe God had his hand upon that person,
after all," for we might find ourselves working against God instead of being coworkers with him.

We had not been in the city a great while until we had more calls than we could fill. People
wrote asking us to call on their friends to see if we could not get the truth to them. We were
called to visit places that were by no means inviting. We also had calls from suburban towns
and other near-by places, and at times we were led to hold meetings for a week or two in places
outside the city. Surely we fulfilled the scripture, "Sow beside all waters." We soon learned
from experience that not all who came to the home telling pitiful stories of need were deserving
of help. Sometimes after giving provisions and even money, we learned that our charity had
been misapplied. We soon learned that it was wise to find out whether we were helping the worthy
poor or impostors.

After the chapel was built, opportunities for reaching souls greatly increased. We now had
meetings whenever we chose, especially on Sunday evenings, Thursday afternoon and evening,
with good attendance of saints and truth-seekers. Our expenses, too, were greatly lessened
in this way, especially at the time of the yearly assemblies. One year the rental of the building
in which the assembly was held, was, I think, $300 for ten days. Before a certain assembly
the saints had contributed freely to provide money for the coming assembly. Shortly before
the meeting began the treasury was robbed of over $200.

During the ten years I spent in the Chicago work, I witnessed many wonderful deliverances from
sin, from disease, and from evil spirits. The account of these experiences would of itself
make a large volume; I can mention only a few here. Sister Pearl Horman, who came to the home,
was taken very sick with fever. Her case was very serious, the fever being very high. The Lord
rebuked the fever and in a short time she was well. Sister Myra Barrett came to a meeting we
were having in the chapel one night, and remained all night in the home. Before morning she
had an attack of erysipelas in the face, accompanied by a high fever. The Lord put his rebuke
on the disease and not many days later she was able to resume her duties in an office in the city.

In answer to a call from Joliet, Illinois, we went to that place and anointed a brother who
was very sick with the quinsy. In answer to the prayer of faith, God wonderfully healed him.
One winter night a call came from the suburbs of the city for some one to come and anoint a
child suffering from a violent attack of pneumonia. The snow lay deep on the ground and the
weather was very cold. My brother and I answered the call. As the night was far spent, the
street-cars were no longer running in the direction we had to go, and so we had to walk over
a mile facing the wintry storm. God answered prayer in behalf of the child. It was better before
we left next morning and was soon entirely well.

At another time we were called upon to pray for a boy who had appendicitis. The doctors who
examined him said that without an operation he could not possibly live, but his father, being
a saint, desired prayer. Brother Reardon and I anointed the boy, prayed the prayer of faith,
and the boy was healed. God got the glory that time instead of the doctor, not to speak of
the saving of a great deal of suffering and a heavy doctor-bill.

My mother was in the home at the time Sister Barrett was healed of erysipelas. About ten years
before this time Mother had the same affliction, and it came near taking her life. As a result,
she had an especial dread of this disease. Before coming to the home, Mother had not been able
to wholly trust the Lord for healing, but when she came to live with us, she decided to trust
the Lord. But when she saw Sister Barrett having such a severe attack of erysipelas, she became
a little alarmed and used something as a preventive, not realizing that it would hinder her
faith. In nine days she had a severe attack of erysipelas. For a number of days she had quite
a fight of faith, and we sent telegrams to The Trumpet Office twice. God in his mercy rebuked
the disease, and she recovered rapidly for one of her age. Although she was past eighty-one,
her recovery was much more rapid than it had been ten years before, when she had trusted the
doctor.

Sometime after mother was entirely well, we found the little preventive she had in her pocket
and asked her about it. She confessed with tears that she had been using the preventive. We
encouraged her to trust God fully for protection as well as for everything else. From that
time forward she has been able to put her trust wholly in God. Some say that people get too
old to trust the Lord, but in her case the older she gets, the more childlike becomes her trust
in God.

A brother Jones, now of West Virginia, came to the home from a place where there was an epidemic
of smallpox. He was just beginning to take the disease; in fact, a pimple or two had already
appeared. He would take spells of being deathly sick, a common occurrence before breaking out
with smallpox. The brother was innocent in coming to the home in that condition, thinking that
he had been exposed to the chicken-pox and that he was just coming down with a bad case of
that disease. He trusted the Lord wholly for healing, and we all united our faith with his
against the disease.

The Monday following his arrival he, in company with my brother and others of the saints, went
to the camp-meeting at Moundsville, W. Va. That same evening God made us who were left at the
home to understand very definitely that the brother had the smallpox and that we should pray
very earnestly that God would keep him from breaking out until the nature of the disease could
be discovered and the brother be put under quarantine to protect the camp-meeting. Our greatest
fears were that the whole camp would be quarantined. The Lord encouraged our hearts to continue
in prayer that he would overrule the whole matter. In a few days they found out that Brother
Jones was taking the smallpox, and they put him under quarantine. Very soon afterward he broke
out. God had answered our prayers to keep him from breaking out, and he also protected us at
the home and those at the camp-meeting. Our God is able to protect in every time of need.

Two or three days later a boy came from the same smallpox-infected district. By this time physicians
in Michigan City had found out that the disease they had there was smallpox, and were going
to put the house where he had been staying under quarantine. The brother who had just come
thought he had sufficient faith to protect himself and others from the disease; but we who
were older in the work and understood the ways of the Lord better, advised him to return, lest
if he should have the smallpox in the city, they would put him in the pest-house, where he
would not have the same chance to trust the Lord that he would if at home. So he returned to
his home and had the disease there. Again God marvelously protected us.

A young sister came to the home for help in both soul and body. After earnest prayer in her
behalf, we found that she was in no condition to get help to her soul until her body became
stronger. She had greatly overworked and her mind was about to give way. It was a month before
we were able to talk to her at all about her soul. Her nerves were in such a condition that
when she heard a prayer, a song, or a scripture, she could scarcely keep from screaming. As
soon as she was able, we did all the Lord showed us to do for her soul. We found that all that
God had laid to her charge was overworking and neglecting her spiritual life. Soon everything
was made right with her soul, but it took months for her nerves and brain to get back to their
normal condition.

We learned a good lesson from this incident. If we neglect our spiritual lives, we shall be
losers every time. The Lord is a jealous God, and if he can't be first, he won't be second.
If we want him to work in and through us, we must give him a chance to keep our souls replenished
and ready for work. At different times while in city-work I have myself allowed temporal things
to get too much on my mind, thus causing me to neglect my devotions. My spirituality would
begin to weaken, and I would become less capable of being a blessing to souls. Had I been more
diligent at certain times in secret prayer and searching the Scriptures, I should have been
spared some sad experiences and heartaches.

One day the sister who was doing the cooking, made up a large batch of light bread, containing,
I think, fifteen or twenty pounds of flour. The sister waited the proper length of time for
the bread to rise, but it showed no signs at all of rising. Some of us talked the matter over
and concluded that we could not afford to throw the flour away and that we had better ask God
to make the bread rise. We did so, but the bread remained as lifeless as before. Finally a
number of us gathered in the kitchen, knelt down on the floor, and asked God to make the bread
rise. It was not long until our prayers were answered. That batch of dough made as good bread
as I have ever eaten. God wonderfully stirred up the thanksgiving in our souls for this answer
to prayer.

One of the company in the home had been exposed to the measles, and they were beginning to
break out on his body. The Lord brought to his mind that he did not need to have the measles
and that if he would put up a fight of faith against them, the Lord would heal him. He was
anointed and prayed for, and God did put his rebuke on the affliction. The following day he
exercised himself too much and had to have prayer again. That was on Saturday evening. Monday
morning he was sufficiently well to start on a trip to Ohio to see his people. The possibilities
of faith can not be comprehended by the finite mind of man. Well did the apostle say, "Faith
is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen."

Among many precious ones associated with us in the work in Chicago was Sister Clara Tuttle,
now gone to her reward. She was a great help to my brother and me, and a blessing to the work
in general. Shortly after she became acquainted with the truth, she asked the Lord what was
her place in the body, and he told her it was to be a good mother. She filled her place well.
This dear sister was not only a good mother to her own children, but to others, especially
to the young workers who had no mother or whose mothers were unsaved. She not only gave good
counsel to the young workers, but prayed with them in times of perplexity. Would to God there
were more mothers in Israel like her! "Her children will rise up and call her blessed." I still
remember the counsel she gave a brother who, was coming to the Missionary Home to stay for
a time. "Now, brother, you have been acquainted with Brother Cole and his sister as gospel
workers and have loved them dearly; but you have seen, them only in the pulpit and public meeting,
where you have had but little opportunity to come in contact with their human weaknesses. When
you go into the home to live with them, you will find that they are but human and make some
mistakes. Be careful now that you do not judge them. Be careful that you don't allow these
human weaknesses to hide the fact that they are ministers anointed by God to carry the gospel
message to a lost world. Remember that God does not judge them from a human standpoint. If
he judged any of us in that way, we should all be found wanting."

BIRTHDAY LINES

In Memory of February 5, 1822

Time moves on, and on, and onward, Piling up its teeming years; Each unfolds its store of blessings,
Each one brings its joys and tears. Ninety years have thus been numbered Since one cold and
wintry morn, On the fifth of February, When "our Mother Cole" was born.

While her little life was tender, Only in its babyhood, God removed her loving mother To a
world more pure and good. Left now the little helpless baby Without mother's love or care,
Many shadows o'er it hovered, Many sorrows it must share.

But her father kind and faithful Bro't much sunshine in her life; Tenderly he loved and blest
her Until she became a wife. As a mother she was noble, Bore her lot with fortitude, Worried
not o'er "sad tomorrows," But looked forward to the good.

When Life's cares and trials oppressed her, She had One in whom to trust; Lovingly He bore
her sorrows, And in Him her soul was blest.

She had always words of kindness   For the sad and those alone; And she often bore their sorrows
As if they had been her own.

Old age does not foil the beauty   Of her sweet unselfish ways; She still clings to Christ
her Savior,   On her lips are words of praise. Tho' upon her bed she lingers,   There's no
sorrow in her room, For her cheery words of comfort   Dispel darkness and the gloom.

Like a sunbeam softly falling   As if on an errand of love, Cheering up some lonely hour, 
Pointing to a world above; Or, the lily rich with fragrance,   Shedding forth its sweet perfume,
So the life of our dear mother   Cheers and brightens up her room.

When her pilgrimage is ended,   And her days are numbered here, She will only bloom the sweeter
In that paradise o'er there. Soon the angels will be coming,   Bear her to that land of rest,
Where she'll ever be with Jesus,   To rejoice among the blest.

Chapter XX

A Battle with Smallpox

Soon after we began work in the city, my brother George went out to assist in a meeting at
Edgewood, Iowa. A mother desired prayer for her little girl, so my brother and another minister
laid hands on her and prayed for her healing. The mother said that some one thought her child
was taking smallpox, but that she was sure it was a mistake. The ministers saw a few little
pimples on the child's lip and asked her if the same breaking-out was on other parts of her
body. The mother's answer was, "None to speak of," and they reached the conclusion that the
pimples on her lip were fever-sores. Under the impression that the child had nothing seriously
wrong with her, my brother went to Roseville, Illinois, to begin a series of meetings. When
the meeting had continued about a week, my brother began to be sick. Still in ignorance as
to the nature of his sickness, he continued the meetings a few days longer. His illness increased
and the first fever came upon him. The congregation was exposed before he knew what was the
matter, but God overruled, answering the prayers of his children to protect all in attendance.
When the nature of my brother's disease came to be fully understood, it seemed that all hopes
of doing good at that place were blasted. Nevertheless, some seed had fallen on good ground,
and these later brought forth precious fruit.

A sister who had been present at my brother's meetings, accepted the truth, got a good experience,
and began living the life of a saint. Her nephew, Bro. John Murphy, now a minister of the church
at Farmersville, California, came to visit her, bringing with him Bro. John Hauck. These two
young men had been attending a Baptist college at Ottawa, Kans. A traveling minister who visited
that place preached the doctrine of entire sanctification and these two young men sought and
obtained the experience. The next morning after receiving the baptism of the Spirit, they started
out like Abraham of old, not knowing whither they went, nor did they know where the Lord was
leading them until they reached the home of Brother Murphy's aunt. Here they found a copy of
The Gospel Trumpet.

As soon as they read The Trumpet, they knew where the Lord was leading them. They made their
way to The Gospel Trumpet office, where Brother Murphy remained as a worker for two or three
years and Brother Hauck for nearly ten years. Both are now ministers in this reformation. At
least four ministers and four other workers at The Trumpet office, besides a score of other
souls, have entered God's service through this sister's influence. So in spite of the fact
that my brother thought that his labors at Roseville ended without results, many souls have
been brought into the kingdom. "Drop a pebble in the water, just a splash and it is gone; but
there are half a hundred ripples circling on, and on."

My brother wrote me a card that he was not feeling well. On its receipt I was greatly burdened
and felt led to go where he was, though I knew nothing about his condition. I waited until
I received another message from him, which said that he was worse. I thought that God was leading
me to go to him and felt a great burden as though I were going to meet something very serious,
quite out of the ordinary. A number of other workers and I met and prayed for an hour before
I went. I sent a telegram that I was coming. Some of the saints thought that I should wait
until I got an answer to my telegram before starting; but I said, "No, God wanted me to telegraph
that I was coming, and then start as quickly as possible." The Lord gave me this scripture:
1 Peter 4, commencing at the twelfth verse. The thirteenth verse was an especial comfort to
me. I understood that I was going to meet something unusual, that I was going to have a severe
battle in some way; but with this knowledge I had the admonition, "But rejoice, inasmuch as
ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings." Two weeks before this God gave me the same scripture,
with the impression that I should see its fulfilment in the near future.

I arrived at Roseville about twelve days after my brother had prayed for the little girl and
found him already beginning to break out. We learned that the other minister who had been with
him, took the disease about the same time. For a day or two after my arrival, however, we were
not certain that my brother had the smallpox. As soon as we were convinced of the nature of
the disease, we sent for a physician to come and quarantine us so that others would be protected,
and the battle began.

The doctor called every day, said he had to come to protect the home where we were staying.
He vaccinated quite a number, including me and Sister Elizabeth Hill, who was helping me care
for brother George. Sister Hill trusted the Lord that the vaccination would not take. Her faith
proved effectual. I thought I had to let the vaccination take, did not resist, and so had a
severe time of it. I was the sickest when my brother needed the greatest attention--just as
the scales were falling off.

The doctor did his best to get a chance to treat my brother. He worked by strategy and seemed
to have some new scheme every day. He shut me out of the room and tried to force my brother
to take medicine when he was too weak to think. He made my brother promise to use the medicine
and then tried to make me promise that I would see that it was used. I told him I would do
as my brother said. After the doctor's departure, I had a little talk with George, and he decided
to continue trusting the Lord.

From the very beginning he had put his case in God's hands. When the fever reached its height
and the disease was at its climax, God rebuked it, and soon my brother was on the road to recovery.
Inside of an hour the fever was going down and in twelve hours it was entirely gone. The same
evening the fever was rebuked, the doctor came. My brother said, "Doctor, I am better." "Yes,"
he answered, "But not permanently so." "Yes," said my brother, "permanently, and I know where
the healing came from. God sent it, and I know I shall not get worse." From that time forward
his improvement was rapid.

Soon after that the effects of the disease settled in his eyes, and for a time it seemed that
his sight would be destroyed, but in answer to prayer his eyes began to recover and were soon
all right again. Then the pox attacked his nose, closing the nostrils so that it seemed almost
to kill him to breathe. It was during one of these times that the doctor was most determined
to push his remedies on him, and he succeeded, too, in a small measure. The medicine was applied
once or twice, but God made it very clear to me that he had the case in his own hands, and
we applied ourselves to prayer. In less than an hour the obstructions were removed from his
nose, and he breathed like a little child, so easily that we could scarcely hear his breath
across the room.

Then came the doctor's last attempt to push remedies on us. He said we needed something to
keep his face from pitting, declaring that unless some remedies were used it would pit badly.
Again we sought the Lord in prayer. There was but one pit left on his face, and that would
not be noticed unless attention were called to it. God proved the doctor wrong in every point
by not leaving a trace of the disease on my brother's body.

After the fever went down, it was with difficulty that my brother was kept warm. It was late
in the fall, the weather was cold, and my brother's blood was so thin it would have been very
easy for him to take cold. The doctor carried out smallpox laws to the extreme, putting up
a wet sheet in my brother's door as he was scaling off. I felt rather bold: as said of one
of old, I wasn't afraid of the king's command. So at night I put the wet sheet back so that
my brother could get the warmth of the fire. In the morning I put the sheet back across the
door before the doctor came.

But we had not fought this battle through alone. His church in general were praying earnestly
for us. It seemed when we plead the promises we touched an agreement, and it was like a mighty
cable. We felt so secure and were so hedged in by prayer and faith that when I thought of the
danger of taking the smallpox, it seemed I could exercise faith so easily in agreement. It
was very easy for me to say, "By faith I know God will not let me take it." After I was vaccinated,
some one said to me, "Now you feel more safe, don't you?" My answer was "No, I have no confidence
in that at all. My confidence is in the Lord. It is he who has protected me. He shall have
all the glory."

What few letters we had a chance to write, had to be dictated to some one standing about thirty
yards away from us. During this time I concluded that if ever there was a disease followed
by the persecutions of the devil, it was the smallpox. Before this I had sometimes thought
that Job's affliction was the small pox, but I now came to the conclusion that I was mistaken.
Had his disease been smallpox, his three comforters would not have hung around him as they
did to torture him.

The enemy tried to inflict punishment upon us in every way he could. A great many in the neighborhood
felt hurt because George had unconsciously brought the disease to that part of the country.
Then the doctor, besides trying to push his remedies upon us and to make us as uncomfortable
as possible in trusting the Lord, created all the sentiment he could against us in the neighborhood.
At the same time he was making all the money he could by vaccinating others. One woman that
was vaccinated at that time, had varioloid, so the doctor said. The county built a pest-house
for her and her husband. This, together with his other charges, cost the county eight hundred
dollars. This woman, so I was informed, thought she was immune from the disease and when smallpox
broke out the next fall, undertook to nurse those who were having it. Again the doctor's words
were proved false. She took the smallpox and died. It will always do to trust God; man is weak
at best.

When George was about to recover, the authorities wanted to raise the quarantine too soon,
thus exposing others to danger. Defeated in this attempt, their next move was to hold us longer
than necessary. I had been praying that if the enemy tried to work in either way, God would
defeat their purpose.

I am sure it would have done your soul good to hear my brother when he had recovered sufficiently
to get up and walk around. He walked the floor singing this song:

  "How can you part with Jesus,
  So loving, so kind and gracious!
  His service to me is precious;
  I am happy as I can be.

  I love my Lord; He loveth me.
  The life of a Christian suits me;
  I am happy as I can be."

He would sing the song over and over and then praise God. It was good of the Lord to so wonderfully
sustain and protect him and all of us through this affliction.

I do not know that any of us are able to appreciate as we should even the prayers of the saints
during this trying time; not to speak of the generous offers of help made by some of the dear
ones in the Lord and the unsaved members of my own family.

One of my unsaved brothers and a sister minister, both having families, volunteered to come
and help me care for George if I needed them. But I felt that to accept their offer would endanger
their families unnecessarily, and told them that the Lord would help us and that we would get
along. It touched our hearts, however, to think that they would risk their lives for our help
and comfort. We appreciated all this to the extent of our abilities, and our hearts were melted
in real thanksgiving because of such kindness.

Every now and then during the quarantine I would get real hungry for encouragement and consolation.
At such times my prayer was, "O Lord, give me some scripture that will be a help to me." The
Lord would invariably point me to 1 Peter 4:12 and 13, laying emphasis especially on the thirteenth
verse. The Lord showed me that he wanted me to rejoice more. I would reply: "Lord, I thought
I got out of that scripture all there was in it. I thought I had rejoiced all I could." At
such times his answer would be, "You can rejoice more; there is more in it for you yet." Like
a good teacher, he held me to the lesson until I learned it well.

When we are in affliction, remember there is some lesson in it for us which we must leam. If
we do not get it, the Lord will have to repeat the experience--give us the lesson over--because
it was not learned the first time. By learning the lesson thoroughly the first time, we avoid
its repetition.

I remember a prayer that was much on my lips during this trial of which I have been speaking:
"Lord, help me to get out of the fire what you have in it for me, and help me to leave in the
fire what you want me to be rid of." Even with the preparation this trial gave me, I was none
too well prepared to encounter some things I had to meet soon afterward. God knew his business.
He knew what was coming, knew the lesson I needed and gave it to me at the proper time. It
pays to be submissive to God. If we are fully submitted into his hands, he will prepare us
by the proper schooling for every test of life and in every difficulty bring us off more than
conquerors.

While my brother's illness was so severe, we were so wonderfully held up by the prayers of
God's children that we did not feel the weight of the affliction that we were passing through.
When my brother was sufficiently recovered, however, that the church got the news that he was
getting better, their prayers were not so constant. By that time the sister at whose home I
was staying and who had assisted me so faithfully in caring for my brother, was almost overcome
by the long strain she had undergone. In fact, we were both almost ready to collapse. In our
weak condition we felt the need of the prayers of others, but as the church had the impression
that my brother was so far recovered that he no longer needed help, we had to fight the battle
alone. I learned this, that no matter how much others help us by their prayers in time of trial,
when we become able to take on responsibility ourselves, God requires us to do all we can for
our own help and protection. It was at this time that I felt very keenly that I should have
rejoiced more when the trial was on.

Chapter XXI

Camp-Meetings in Various States

While engaged in the work in Chicago I had the privilege of attending camp-meetings in a number
of States. While at a camp-meeting at Grand Forks, N. Dakota, I received an invitation to attend
a meeting at Hammond, Louisiana, about 1,500 miles south. For some time I had had a desire
to go to that part of the country for different reasons, and therefore gladly embraced this
opportunity. I went by way of Chicago, remaining at the home for about a week.

The kindness of my reception in the South gave me the impression that people in the South are
very hospitable and large-hearted. I think that in this respect they excel many of our Northern
and Eastern people. I found that in the South much is expected of ministers coming from the
East or the North. The responsibilities of the meeting, therefore, were all that I could go
through, even with the help of the Lord. It was July, and the weather was so warm that we could
not use the tabernacle during the heat of the day, but had to resort to a little grove near by.

During this meeting I went twelve miles and visited my brother's grave; on this trip I also
called on some saints who lived in that part of the country. I had a pleasant drive and also
got a chance to enjoy some of the Southern figs which grow in those parts. Notwithstanding
I was much fatigued when I returned that evening and thought I would not go out to meeting
at all. Then I thought I would go for the first of the service and return to my lodging before
the meeting closed, as I would be too tired to remain. But God planned otherwise. He showed
me that I must trust him for strength and be prepared to preach that evening. God delivered
the message through me and blessed it to the salvation of a number of souls.

Soon after the camp-meeting I returned to Chicago. As I started homeward, I found that the
oppressive heat had greatly reduced my strength. Because of the heat, too, I had been tempted
to drink too much ice-water, lemonade, etc. When about sixty miles from home, my heart began
to fail, and I saw that unless the Lord helped me I was not going to be able to get through.
I can not express to you how earnestly I called upon God. Almost every moment of the time from
there on I trusted the Lord to hold me up, for it seemed that in spite of myself my heart would
fail. The Lord came to my rescue. I reached my destination all right, and suffered no serious
harm later.

One fall I went to the camp-meeting at Carthage, Mo. At this meeting I met some of my old friends
from Maries County, Missouri, and other places, some of whom I had not met for more than twenty
years. One of them was a brother whom I first met near Rolla, Mo. Seeing him reminded me of
an incident that occurred in connection with his mother-in-law, old Sister Bell, at the time
I was holding meetings in that part of the country. She was a large woman. One winter she slipped
on the ice and came near breaking her back. The accident occurred in the middle of the week,
and until the following Sunday morning she was paralyzed.

The meeting that Sunday was at the Bell home. We found her lying helpless. As we talked to
her about her healing, she seemed anxious to be healed. She was a good, pure saint, and lived
close to the Lord. In the prayer before preaching we were especially burdened for her and prayed
earnestly that God would heal her. God encouraged our hearts. After preaching we again talked
to her a little while and quoted some of the promises. I told her how God had heard and answered
prayer for my healing; I had had an attack of some disease a day or two before, and God had
wonderfully delivered me from it. As we talked, her faith seemed to grow by bounds and leaps.
We asked her if she was willing to die. She said she was; and again, if she was willing to
live if the Lord wanted her to, and again she answered yes. Then we asked her if she believed
the Lord would heal her. She said she did. Her husband and oldest daughter were standing by,
expecting her to die any minute. Her mother, who was a skeptic, was also present. She wanted
me to persuade her daughter to take medicine. I replied that I would talk to her daughter,
but did not tell her what I would say.

When I found out that the sister's faith was strong in God, I did what I could to encourage
her to trust God for immediate healing. All at once, while we were talking, she said, "The
Lord heals me." Her husband, fearing that the death-struggle was coming on, went to hold her
in bed. I told him to let her go--that this was of God and that he would take care of her.
She bounded out of bed and went running through the house, saying that God had healed her and
that a sluice of praise was going through her soul. Her son-in-law was not present, so I hastened
over to his house to tell him the good news. "Do you know what came to me first?" said he.
"No," I answered. "Well, it came to me that she was lying in bed all this time to have a chance
to show off on Sunday, but I know she isn't a hypocrite, and therefore it isn't that way. But
I am glad I wasn't there, for fear I should have had to believe." When I met this brother at
Carthage, Missouri, he was not, I am sorry to say, as strong in the faith as was his privilege.
He had made great improvement, however. How cruel is unbelief! It makes God a liar and causes
one to believe the devil.

From Carthage I went to Webb City, Missouri, where I visited friends and saints whom I had
known years before. Among the number was mother Sunderland. [Footnote: Since the above statement
was written, Mother Sunderland has gone to her reward.] From Webb City I went to Chanute,

Kansas, and visited two saints, old friends of mine who needed encouragement. While at Chanute
I ate something that did not agree with me. I partly recovered, and then went on to Neosho
Falls, Kansas, where I remained for two weeks and held a few services. As I still had severe
sick spells, I sent for prayers to The Trumpet office and the saints in Kansas City and Chicago.
The sister with whom I was staying held on to God, pleading the promises in my behalf like
a hero, and with such importuning faith that I was soon able to pursue my journey.

I made my next stop at Kansas City, remaining there for nearly a month, I think. When I first
arrived at that place, I was quite weak. I did not fully comprehend how sick I had been. Bro.
James Peterman, who had charge of the home, was called away the first Sunday after I arrived,
and so I had charge of both services. I walked three-quarters of a mile three times that day
and preached twice. The next day I walked a mile and a half, most of the way up hill. My exertions
proved entirely too much for me, and I endured some rather severe suffering. My body was badly
worn out, and as a result my mind got into a sad, discouraged mood. My meditations were something
like this: I shall soon be getting old and helpless, and not able to do much in the work. If
I live, it will not be long until I shall be a burden upon some one else.

It was a late hour before my nerves got sufficiently quieted so that I could rest. The next
morning I had a dream. I saw a little child about two years old playing on the floor. Some
one came by and stepped on the little one's fingers, and it began to cry with pain. His father
came along, took him up in his arms and caressed him, and very soon the pain was all gone,
and the little fellow was all right again. It seemed that the father had such love and pity
for the child that I felt the effects of it in my own soul. When I awoke I said, "Lord, what
is there in this dream for me?" I realized that no doubt God had permitted it for my good.
Immediately this scripture came to me: "Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord
pitieth them that fear him." The Lord seemed to say to my soul, "Now I want to pity you." I
accepted his kindness as best I knew how.

I thought I had gotten out of the dream all the benefit that the Lord had in it for me; but
when I went to rise and dress myself, God spoke again, saying, "Don't be in a hurry. I want
to have a chance to pity you." Then he kept bringing to my mind his goodness in a way that
touched the right spot, covered my need, and at last I was permitted to arise and dress. After
I was dressed the following words came to me: "He knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we
are but dust." The dream was still so visible before me. I could still see the father pitying
his child, and I felt the strength of that pity in my own soul. It was so real that I comprehended
as I never had before in my life, something of the depths of God's pity for his children. Had
it been some person dealing with me, he might have said, "Oh, you didn't need to let the cloud
come over you. You didn't need to have the blues in this way." But instead of speaking to me
in that manner, God just poured out his pity until he chased all the dark clouds away, until
his presence filled the vacancy, until he satisfied every longing of my soul. Therefore he
is able to succor them that are tempted. Do you not think he will do to trust? Then, let us
trust him and not be afraid, though the clouds seem dark and lowering. God will do to trust
in the storms and tempests of life the same as when it is calm--only during the storm he will
have a better chance to reveal his mercy, his goodness, and his power.

After being with the dear ones in the Kansas City home for nearly a month, I returned to Chicago.
Upon my arrival in the city I found that my body was quite run down. Yet God enabled me to
do quite active service. No doubt, however, I went at times when, if I had consulted the Lord
more carefully, he would have said rest. I was not able to be nearly so active as I had been
in the past, and God seemed directing me to take a change, as city-work means constant activity.
About a year after my former visit, I again went to Kansas City to visit the work there for
a season, remaining there for about three months. I enjoyed the work there very much, although
I could take on but little responsibility. God blessed my efforts.

In Kansas City I saw in operation the method of working through the circulating library and
cottage-meetings. They had quite a number of the different books printed at The Trumpet office.
These are loaned in various parts of the city by the workers from the home, who visit the homes,
talk with the readers, take up the books that have already been read, and loan new ones. The
reading of the books often opens the way for cottage-meetings, which are held by the workers
and young ministers from the home. The holding of these meetings serve two purposes; namely,
getting the truth to the people and affording an opportunity to the young ministers and workers
to get experience in gospel work.

After being in Kansas City a time, I went to see some old friends at Kingston, Mo. God led
us to have two or three services a week for about two weeks. After about two weeks two of the
sisters from the missionary home in Kansas City were sent for, and we had a two weeks' meeting.

While I was at Kingston, God in different ways gave me much needed encouragement. One day a
sister was giving her adopted daughter some good advice on the subject of marriage. Among other
things, the sister told the girl that if she married in God's order she would have some one
to love her and care for her in her old age. The enemy took advantage of this to hurl a dart
at me, because I was growing old, might soon become helpless, and had no one to sympathize
with or care for me. For a time everything seemed dark, as though God had let me see certain
things and had then veiled his face from me. I wondered why this was. I meditated: "Well, I
have obeyed the Lord, have done what he wanted me to do. He certainly will not forsake me now.
If I should live to be old and helpless, he will not let any serious thing come on me, because
I have been obedient."

About this time God spoke to my soul, calling my attention to the thirty-seventh Psalm, third
and fourth verses: "Trust in the Lord, and do good." Now, this was my part. This is what God
required of me--to trust in him and do good. Then came his part: "So shall thou dwell in the
land, and verily thou shalt be fed." His part was to see that I had a place to stay and sufficient
food. The scriptures that he brought to my mind at that time have not lost their sweetness
and power even to this day.

I can not tell you how precious these special lessons of God have been to me; how they have
helped my feet to press the everlasting rock, He is a covenant-keeping God, and his Word is
true and forever settled in heaven. Never again has the enemy dared to tempt me in this way.

Praise the Lord! Truly he is all that we take him for by faith. "All things are yours." "Ye
are Christ's, and Christ is God's." Will he not with him freely give you all things? The Father
gave the Son, heaven's best gift, and did he leave out the minor gifts? Nay, verily, he will
fulfil every promise to the letter if we meet the conditions. It was Joshua who said, I think,
"Not one of these good promises has failed." Neither have any of them failed any of us who
put our trust in Him. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but his word will stand secure. "Forever,
O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven."

  "Even down to old age, all my people shall prove,
  My sovereign, eternal, unchangeable love;
  And when hoary hairs shall their temples adorn,
  They'll still like lambs in my bosom be borne."

After being in Kingston one month, we came to Kansas City, remained a short time, made a call
some distance out to pray for the sick, and on my return to the city had urgent word to come
to Chicago, as my mother was needing my attention. After a short stay in Chicago I went to
the camp-meeting at Anderson, Indiana, and enjoyed the feast there. Then I went out in the
country near Summitville, Indiana, for a little rest and recreation. I was at Summitville about
five weeks and during that time assisted Bro. N. S. Duncan in a series of meetings that God
blessed and owned.

Shortly after this I felt led to go to Iowa a few weeks to be what help I could to a dear sister
who was going through some deep trials. Her difficulty seemed to be mainly self-accusation.
In other words, she had set her spiritual standard so high that she could not live up to her
own ideal. Like nearly all people who undergo that difficulty, she was good at heart, but the
struggle to get out of her difficulty was severe. God came to her help, gave her victory over
her trials, such as she had never been able to have before. She has never been troubled again
in the same manner, and she is now firmly established in the way of the Lord.

Some of God's dear little ones who are very conscientious, sometimes look upon the Lord as
a severe father. It seems to them that he, like Pharaoh, wants them to make brick without straw,
to gather stubble. With this idea of God in mind, they have a hard time and fail to see him
as a good, kind, loving heavenly Father, one whose heart is overflowing with mercy and compassion
for his dear tried children, ready to make a way for their escape. In fact, if they could but
see it, he has already made a way of escape and wants to help them into it just as soon as
they will let him. His promises cover the need of every one. If taken and belived, one promise
of itself is sufficient.

While the fire is hottest, let us stop and think that this kind Father will not permit the
flames to be any severer or the fire any hotter than is most for our good, and that he has
a bright design in all that he permits to come upon us. He wants us to hold still, so that
he can bring out his design in us. Let us be careful that we do not foil his plans. If we do
not, not only will he be pleased, but we also shall be glad that we submitted to him.

I spent five weeks laboring with this sister. According to the Lord's estimate, one soul is
worth more than the whole world. Nor do we know how many other souls that one will bring to
the Lord--like the one woman at the well to whom Jesus delivered a message and who went and
told many others. Let us be faithful, therefore, in helping souls, whether it be one or many.

Chapter XXII

Caring for my Aged Mother

Provision had now been made for the removal of my mother to the Old People's Home at Anderson,
Ind. As there was not sufficient help at the home then to care for her, I took that duty upon
myself. As soon as help should come, I was to be free to go and be in meetings what little
I was able, except when I needed to care for her, either when she was sick or when they were
short of help.

In the days following my coming to Anderson, I went to Sioux Falls, S. Dakota, to visit a sister
who was needing some special encouragement. It was mid-winter. Some told me before I started
that there was danger of my being snow-bound, and advised me to take plenty of provisions with
me; but as I did not anticipate any such difficulty, I did not heed the warning. We got along
pretty well until about ten miles from Sioux Falls. The recent heavy snows had so obstructed
the way that the engine could not pull through. It would run a little way into the drift, then
back up, and again push its way into the drift as far as possible. It kept working its way
forward in this manner from one o'clock in the afternoon until very nearly midnight, when we
arrived at Sioux Falls.

Sure enough, my provisions did run out on the way; but with the generosity peculiar to most
people under like circumstances, the other passengers, although strangers to me, helped me
out and supplied all the food needed. Doubtless many of these people knew nothing of real salvation,
but their liberal-heartedness proved that sin had not effaced all of the marks of God's love
from their hearts.

I remained six weeks at Sioux Falls, during which time I had but little chance to do missionary
work other than to encourage the sister whom I went to visit. However, I did go out and put
Trumpets in some of the yards and on the porches of neighboring houses. Possibly some of these
papers may have proved silent messengers of salvation. Sometimes when the mercury was ten degrees
below zero, and the snow deep on the ground, I would go out and walk and distribute Trumpets
or tracts. In spite of the cold and snow, I enjoyed my stay. I did what God directed me to
do, and I trust that he has blessed my labors. At any rate, the sister whom I went to visit
has written me a number of times that she does not know what she would have done had not God
sent me at that time to help her through the difficulties she was then encountering. On my
return trip I took a severe cold while traveling in a chilly car. My train was late and did
not make connections at Chicago. I telephoned out to the Faith Missionary Home, and they gave
me an invitation to come and remain over night. I accepted their kindness and was soon in the
home where I had spent so many years in the work of the Lord. That evening I made a call on
a dear sister that I was anxious to meet, and by the time I got back to the home again I was
real sick. I had taken a severe attack of the grip and was suffering greatly. Most of the workers
were gone to meetings in different parts of the city, but a sister who had remained at home,
laid her hands on me and prayed the prayer of faith. I was able next morning to resume my journey
back to the Old People's Home at Anderson.

Although my system had been greatly weakened and rendered more liable to taking cold than it
had been before, yet I was well enough so that I soon went about fifteen miles to the little
town of Cammack and assisted Sister Maud Smith in a two weeks' meeting. Soon after my return
I took a severe attack of pneumonia. Prayer was offered, but the disease seemed to be stubborn.
I was anointed, and prayer was again offered, but the battle was still on. So we called in
some more of God's ministers and again had prayer. This time God healed me, and next day I
was able to go down to dinner. Nevertheless, I remained weak for some days, but soon felt almost
entirely restored to health.

In about two weeks, however, I took another attack of pneumonia, one more severe than the first.
Again we had a stubborn fight. We prayed three times before any effects were visible. Pleurisy
was setting in, and I had begun to spit blood. My temperature had reached 103-3/4 when God
gave the witness from heaven that he healed me. I did not get strength nearly so quickly as
I did before, and had to keep my bed most of the time for two days. Nevertheless, I never doubted
once my healing, and indeed it had been accomplished. I have never suffered from that affliction
since.

This is only one of the many times that the Lord has come to my rescue and touched my body.
Sometimes I have been healed instantly, and at other times God has given me the witness that
I was healed, but my strength returned gradually and it was several days before I could be
about as usual. However, the healing came. God was doing the work in his own way, and he always
has a purpose and reason for any method he may use. Let us not question the method he uses,
but trust him.

Since coming to the Old People's Home I have not been privileged to go out much to help in
meetings. This has been partly due to the fact that Mother has needed much care and also to
the fact that my strength has not been equal to the exertion. But I have had the privilege
of helping in other ways. Very often the old people in the home need prayer for their healing
or help and encouragement in their souls. Besides, I have had the privilege of giving help
and encouragement to some of the workers in The Trumpet office, and also to others living nearby.
I am very thankful for these opportunities.

The Lord has also been helping me to trust him for means to support his cause in the Missionary
field and other places. Although I can not give much, yet I appreciate the privilege of giving
the little. At first I felt led to purpose forty cents a month. The Lord provided this sum
every time. For a year I kept up this purpose and never once had to borrow. The Lord also provided
means for me to help his cause in other directions. The next year I felt led to ask God to
help me trust him for fifty cents a month for missionary work. I never failed to have my money
ready at the proper time. The third year I felt like trusting the Lord for seventy-five cents
a month, paying this amount in advance. One consideration that made me reach the decision to
pay in advance was that if God should call me before the month was out I should not be in debt.
I have never been disappointed. Sometimes the Lord gives me happy surprises in this as well
as in other things. If we give God a chance, he will develop our faith to trust him for means
as well as for other things, if we are not able to work and earn the money, and have a desire
to help his cause. During the present year in which I am writing, I am trusting the Lord for
a dollar a month for foreign missionary work, and early in the spring the Lord gave me enough
to pay my purpose for the whole year. He made it clear to me that I should use the money for
that purpose.

The Lord has helped me also to trust him for my clothing and other needs, and for the needs
of my mother. He is such a present help. A number of times I have asked him for money in the
morning, and before the sun went down I had all that I asked for. "According to your faith,"
says the Word, "so be it unto thee." "The desire of the righteous shall be granted."

Some persons have thought that God did not answer prayer for the healing of old people, since
they would soon have to die anyway. We know that God will not make them young again, as that
is not his plan; but since coming to the Old People's Home I have witnessed the healing of
many aged people. In fact, my mother, the oldest inmate of the home, has trusted God for a
number of years. The older she gets, the stronger her faith seems to be. Every time these old
people are afflicted, the Lord answers prayer. In asking God for healing, they seem childlike,
and simple, fully expect God to heal them when they call upon him.

One of the inmates of the home, an old lady in her eighty-seventh year was at the point of
death. From appearances one would have supposed that her end was near. She had no hope of recovery.
Her burial clothes were made ready. She had been prayed for a number of times, but was still
suffering great agony. She did not know what was causing the suffering, but thought it might
be appendicitis. Some of us, however, could not be satisfied to let her die without making
further effort for her healing, so we sent for Bro. E. E. Byrum. She was again anointed and
prayed for. While we were on our knees, God assured my heart that he would hear and answer
prayer. Her suffering did not seem to decrease, however, immediately, and in less than an hour
Brother Byrum was again called. He came at once, as he had remained in the house. The second
time he offered prayer that God would relieve her of her suffering. Although her condition
still looked discouraging, yet God made us know that she was going to get well. Although she
did not recover very rapidly, yet for one of her age the change was marvelous, and not long
afterward she had her usual health. A year or more afterwards she was able to return to Pennsylvania
to visit some of her folks. She concluded to remain there and is still living in that State.

One of the aged brothers in the home was greatly afflicted. His mind was giving way somewhat,
and he got into a very melancholy condition, thinking that he ought never to leave his room,
and especially that he should not be out-of-doors. It could easily be seen that if he continued
very long in this condition, he would not only lose his mind but be bedfast and perhaps die.
He desired very much to be sanctified and asked several of us to come to his room and pray
for him. We went to his room and talked to him on the subject of sanctification, and while
he was surrendering all to the Lord, we had him consecrate his will that he would be out-of-doors
all that the Lord wanted him to be. He promised he would do so, and the Lord sanctified him.
In the two years or more that have passed since then, he has not broken his promise, but has
remained in the house only when the weather prevented his being out. As a result, his mind
is almost entirely restored, his body is much stronger, and he is not like the same person.

In the four years I have been in the Old People's Home nursing my mother, I have noticed that
the older people get the less able they are to comprehend anything new. For this reason it
is hard for an old person to grasp the promises of God for salvation; but if they have been
saved in their younger years and have lived a consistent Christian before they come to such
a great age, they will every year grow more and more like Jesus, trusting him more fully, and
seem more humble and thankful as they draw nearer the grave. I have been more strongly impressed
than ever before that people should seek God while they are young before they become unable
to grasp the promises. I feel the more impressed to sound a warning because there are some
in the home with whom we have labored again and again, but who are so aged and infirm that
seemingly they can not reach a decision to seek until they find. Their unsaved condition, in
view of their extreme age, puts them in a very serious place.

The spiritual workers in The Trumpet Family sometimes take me with them to visit those who
need help in the city. One day we went to see a man who was on his death-bed. He had never
known God. When we first went into the room, we did not know that he would be able to talk
with us much, but we prayed earnestly that God's Spirit would work with him. That was all we
could do at that time. Later we went and had prayer with him again, talking to him about his
soul, and prayed earnestly that God would spare his life until he could obtain salvation, and
that God would keep his mind clear so that he would be able to meet the conditions. We went
to see him the third time. In the meantime other workers had been to see him, and he was becoming
concerned about his soul. While one of the brethren was praying with him, he grasped the promises
that God would save him, and was able to rejoice in the Lord. When I went to see him a little
later, he seemed to have complete victory and was very happy.

While thinking of this occurrence at a later time, it seemed to me that I had done nothing
toward the brother's salvation, since I was not present at the time he was saved. But the Lord
began to talk to my soul: "Paul may plant, and Apollos may water, but God gives the increase.
Are you not willing to plant and let some one else water? Are you not willing to be coworkers
with others for the Lord?" I saw the point and answered, "Amen, Lord, I am willing; any way
to get souls saved."

One day my mother was taken suddenly ill. Her affliction was overflowing of the gall. It seemed
that she would strangle to death. She was anointed and prayer was offered; then we sent for
the elders and again had prayer, but it seemed that she was dying. A few hours later, thinking
she was dying, we sent for some of the elders and a number of us gathered about her bed. The
blood seemed to be settling under her skin as though she were mortifying before she died, and
the Superintendent, who was standing near the bed, said he was sure he heard the death-rattle
in her throat. Even at that time we offered prayer the third time, and all these more pronounced
symptoms disappeared and she looked natural once more. She remained quite sick, however, for
several days. God had made it clear to one of the brethren that we had offered the prayer of
faith and that her life would be spared for a time. She is still living at this time, a marvel
of God's divine power.

Chapter XXIII

Exhortation to Workers and Ministers

In conclusion I feel that the Lord would be pleased for me to say a few words for the encouragement
of young ministers and workers. In my work in the ministry I have come through many varied
experiences that, I trust, will be helpful to you in the trials through which you will have
to pass before you get settled in the Lord's work.

The first difficulty met by most young ministers and workers is in regard to their call. Unless
the call be clear and definite, they are likely to be in some doubt as to whether or not they
are called, and thus be exposed to the temptations of the enemy that God has not called them
at all. Sometimes God makes a call so clear that it is beyond question, and the one called
has no chance to doubt it for a moment. This was my experience at first; but when I got my
mind filled with other plans, instead of keeping in view the past leadings of the Lord, sad
to say, I began to doubt my call. But when I began again to seek God's will, everything cleared
up, and I felt certain of my call.

Many others have difficulties right on this point. They feel led to do something for the Lord,
and undertake to follow the leadings of his Spirit, but they do not feel the presence of God
as they expected to feel it, or do not have the liberty that they think they should have. Then
comes the temptation, "Has God called me, or am I trying to push out without any calling?"
If they are very conscientious, it is easy for them to become confused when confronted with
this temptation. They will pray over it and trouble over it. They are very timid and feel afraid
to ask older workers lest what they have supposed to be a call is an imagination of their own
and they will get a good sharp rebuke. They will struggle along in this condition until it
becomes unbearable; then perhaps they will open their hearts to some person in whom they have
confidence. If they get the proper instruction, they can soon be lifted out of this dilemma;
but if not, they may do as some have done before--get so confused that they will lose the grace
of God out of their souls.

My advice would be: If you have any idea that you are called, go to exercising yourself as
best you can, whether it be in exhortation, teaching, or testimony, or whatever God brings
most clearly to your mind. If you are not sure about your calling, in the meantime be patient
and wait on God. Be sure you cast your burden entirely on him and let him bear it for you.
If God's hand is on you for service, you will sooner or later be perfectly satisfied as to
what he wants you to do; but if it should be otherwise, and you are honest of heart, you will
be only too glad to know that you are not called. Thus your mind will be relieved.

If you are exercising yourself in spiritual things and no one is getting any benefit, you should
take time to consider well whether God is calling you or not. I verily believe that if God's
hand is on any one for service, whether he be a beginner or some one of experience, some will
get a blessing when he teaches, exhorts, or delivers a message, because with his Word, God
gives the anointing of his Spirit. "But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man
to profit withal" (1 Corinthians 12:7). According to the Word, then, we can safely say that
if there is no profit to the hearers in what is being set forth, God's Spirit is not inditing
the message.

A young worker who was doubtful about his call, once went to an older brother for advice. This
is what he received: "If you feel that God wants you to go out into evangelistic work, go right
along, even if you are not sure that God is calling you. Go along, and then if you have success,
you will know it is your own efforts and trust in God that has brought success, and not the
efforts and faith of another. By following this plan you can easily determine whether or not
God's hand is on you for the work."

Now, the method the brother proposed might succeed in some cases all right, but I hardly think
it would do in all cases, as all are not led out alike. One of my brothers, when he was first
called, felt led to be with me in the work, that God might make me more useful by his presence.
He did not comprehend at all that God's hand was on him for service, but later God began to
lead him out and to use and bless his efforts. By and by God got him to the point where he
could reveal to him his future work. At first my brother hardly knew what to do. He was at
a place where he had to fulfil his calling or else grieve God. He chose the former course,
and God made him a useful minister, but his development was gradual.

If you begin exercising yourself in the ministry, and God does not bless your efforts, and
God's children do not realize that his Spirit is working through you, you would do well to
go slowly and to keep submitted to the brethren, lest you should find yourself running ahead
of the leadings of the Spirit of the Lord. If God is leading a young worker out for service,
he not only will make him feel sooner or later the weight of the call, but will so impress
the church that they will know that God is inditing his message.

When you once get it definitely settled that you are called to the ministry, never allow the
difficulties and trials of this life so to cloud your vision that you doubt your call. It is
one of the tricks of the enemy by trials and discouragement to make the ministers doubt their
calling. When your call is once settled, do not go over it again and again to find out whether
God is in earnest about it. If you should backslide, of course, then you should wait until
God makes clear his will to you again. If a person is not stable in his experience, even though
he has had a call to service, that call does not remain so clear and God does not always trust
him at once after his recovery from his unsettled state.

Some young workers who feel clear that God has called them to service, try to measure their
call by what others think of it. Such a course will bring on confusion. It is all right to
be submissive to the brethren, but the Lord wants each of us to get his own bearings. Pray
through until you get the mind of God, and at the same time be subordinate to the brethren.
If they see it is not best for you to move out rapidly, heed what they tell you.

Be sure to keep your own individuality. If you feel that God has shown you a duty, do it in
his fear, in a humble, submissive way. God may be leading you, and yet he may not be making
his design very clear to others. There may be many difficulties in your way, such as bashfulness,
want of fluent speech, awkwardness of manner, and ignorance. If, however, God has called you,
and you keep submissive to him, he will in his own way bring out his design in you. Whatever
your hands find to do, do it with your might. One has said, "Instant obedience is the secret
of divine guidance."

Some young workers become discouraged if they are not used extensively. You need not conclude,
however, that because the Lord does not give you a message often, he does not want to use you
at all. Keep submitted and obey God. If God is leading you into evangelistic work, move out.
If many souls are saved, be thankful; but if few are saved, still be thankful. Obey God. Do
all that he shows you to do, and expect souls to be saved. Pray earnestly that God may convict
souls. Pray through until you know that God is going to work with you for the salvation of
mankind. Be so true, so humble, and so faithful, and so fill your calling by the help of God,
that you can say with Paul, "I magnify mine office."

During my evangelistic labors I have come to places where from a natural standpoint the prospect
was so discouraging and the religious confusion of the people so great that, if we could not
have interceded with God for help, it would have been useless for us to remain. When we went
to God in earnest prayer, however, and plead with him for souls, God never disappointed us.
Many times we have had our greatest victories where the prospects seemed especially discouraging.

As we have already said, a definite call is the first essential for a gospel worker; but even
with such a call a minister will fail, unless he goes forth filled with the Spirit. You may
have a call, you may really be sent by the Lord; but unless you keep filied with the Spirit,
your labors will soon cease to bring results. Do not try to imitate the manner and methods
of others, but keep yourself so submitted to God and so pliable in his hands that he can have
his way with you, even as the potter does with the clay.

Let God mold and fashion you into a vessel after his own design.

Again, do not neglect to search the Scriptures. Under the illumination of the Holy Spirit,
the Scriptures will prove a mine of wealth to you. Education is all right in its place; but
when you lean upon it as a means of understanding the Scriptures, or when you depend upon it
for unction and liberty and for ability to teach, preach, or exhort, you will make a sad failure.
You will disappoint yourself, the people, and God.

Do not question your calling because you have a poor education. Make good use of your present
opportunities. Read good books. Get all the help and information you can in regard to soul-saving,
but be careful you do not lean on your education for soul-unction. Many a time the Lord has
called my attention to this thought before I rose to address an audience. Again and again he
has reminded me to be sure not to depend upon myself, but to lean always on him, to drink in
of his Spirit, so that I might give out to others. Human speech fails me in trying to bring
out the importance of this thought. I trust that God will interpret my thought to your heart
in a more forceful manner than words will allow.

Thus far I have been speaking mainly to young workers in the early part of their ministry.
Now I wish to say a few words that will be helpful to them as they grow older in the service.
If you are fully persuaded that God has chosen you as his mouthpiece to declare the everlasting
gospel to eternity-bound souls, you should feel the weight of your responsibility. A very weighty
responsibility rests upon him who stands between the living and the dead. The attitude a minister
holds, both toward his call also toward the Word of God, and also toward the people, is of
vital importance. (2 Timothy 4:1-3).

The admonition to preach the word implies that what goes forth from the pulpit should be in
harmony with the Scriptures, backed up by the Spirit of God. Do not give the people theories
nor illustrate your speech by fabulous stories. Do not dwell too much with the surface problems
of Christianity, but spend more time in leading the people to a deep heart-experience. If they
get the inner man right its beauty will shine out through their entire being. In short, speak
to the people the oracles of God, so that if they are at all susceptible to the truth, your
speech will appeal to them as the Word of God spoken through your lips of clay.

In preaching, guard against relating many touching incidents merely to work up the human sympathy.
We have to deal with the hearts of men as well as with their minds and judgments. Any one that
has a love for God's pure word will find in it a force and power that will have a good effect
when it is presented in simple and plain language under the anointing of the Holy Spirit.

In preaching on some subjects, it is necessary to have a large number of texts, but ministers
make a mistake who think that they must make every sermon a Bible-reading. The use of too many
scriptures confuses the listeners; it is often better to concentrate the attention of the hearers
on one text until its full meaning is mastered. At the proper time Bible-lessons are in order,
but the admonition, "Preach the word," does not mean that you are to read a large number of
scriptures, but merely that you should present the Word of God as paramount to everything else.
The ministry of Babylon have fed their people with much worldliness mixed together with a small
portion of the Word of God. For this reason God's people scattered in Babylon have not fared
well. At meeting their intellects would be fed, but their souls would be starved.

You can not, however, feed others until your own soul is fed. This is done by searching the
Scriptures and by praying much. If it is laid upon any one more than another to search the
Scriptures, it is laid upon God's ministry, whom he has set apart to teach his Word and to
feed his people. It is good to read God's Word slowly and carefully, to meditate upon it, to
read it in different ways, by course, by subject. After reading a small portion, take time
to dwell upon it, to pray over it, until it has become your own, not only as a possession of
your mind, but also as a soul-experience.

If you depend thus upon the Spirit of the Lord, he will give you new messages for the people.
God gives his ministers many things that are good to repeat again and again, especially to
different audiences; but a repetition of old thoughts many times in the same congregation is
too much like serving warmed-over food. It lacks appetizing qualities. Something fresh from
the Spirit of the Lord will make the people hungry to hear more of the word, and will make
the word charming to their souls. When the minister gets a message direct from the Spirit,
then presents it under the anointing of the Spirit, it will have beauty, sweetness, and a freshness
that no power of mere human words, no trick of oratory, nor beauty of illustration, can give.
If you will bear this in mind and drink of the Spirit before you come before your congregation,
give the Lord a chance to use you as an avenue through which to speak, you will be a success
in your calling.

To be a New Testament minister, you must be able to exhibit at least some of the gifts of the
Spirit.

These are yours by right of your calling. Paul says, "But rather that ye should prophesy."
Without this special insight into the Scriptures and power to present them to others, you will
not be able to fulfil your calling as a mouthpiece of the Spirit.

Before laying special stress on the gifts, however, you would do well to see that you are filled
with the Spirit. Remember that the gifts are as the fruits and the Spirit as the tree. One
who has not the Spirit can not bear the fruit. Do not try to substitute the gifts of the Spirit
for spirituality. Covet earnestly the best gifts. Nevertheless, you should be careful that
you do not try by your own human efforts to obtain the gifts, instead of earnestly seeking
the Lord for their bestowal. By undue human efforts, many have obtained the manifestation of
a false spirit, which they have placed on exhibition as the genuine.

Paul said to Timothy, "Be instant in season." To do this you must keep close in touch with
the Lord and let him be your wisdom, yea, your all. Paul said further, "Be instant out of season."
This expression has been puzzling to many young ministers. If you will watch to do good and
to lift up Christ at every possible opportunity, your chance for doing good will increase.
Sometimes there will seem to be no opportunity, no open door; then you must open the door yourself.
Go in and do what you can for souls. Sometimes what you do will seem altogether out of season.
Later, however, you may see that God's blessing was upon your labors and that some soul has
received a benefit.

"Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine." In order to be able to do this
according to the Word of God, you will have to live a life above reproach, or your rebukes
and reproofs will come back upon your own head, when rebuking and reproving, long-suffering
is very needful. As a rule, people will not take the truth all at once. Paul said to Timothy
in another place, "Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things."
With what carefulness a minister must speak when he comes in contact with those who have not
yet fallen in love with the truth. One word spoken unwisely may forever shut the door of salvation
for some eternity-bound soul.

The last word in this admonition should not be forgotten: "with all long-suffering and doctrine."
Doctrine has a very important place. Mistakes have been made in preaching the Word. Sometimes
it is all doctrine and no experience; sometimes it is all experience and no doctrine.

Paul said to Titus, "But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine." Paul's words seem
to show that the doctrines of the New Testament are of vital importance. For example, we should
understand the doctrine of repentance and justification, of sanctification, of divine healing,
of the one body, and of every other subject connected with our eternal interest. If a minister
keeps the church well grounded in the doctrine of the New Testament, he will in a large measure
forestall the possibility of their being seduced by false spirits and of giving place to doctrines
of devils.

But to know the doctrine means more than to gain a mental knowledge of it. No minister is properly
equipped to teach justification or sanctification until he has an actual heart-experience.
As the minister presents the truth on these doctrines, the Spirit of the Lord should bear definite
witness to his possession of these graces, so that he can present the truth definitely from
an experimental standpoint. Then he will not say, "I think it is so and so," or "I guess it
is this way or that," but he can speak with authority. (Titus 1:9). God's Word on any point,
illuminated by the Spirit, brings out sound doctrine. It is certain that we can not improve
on the Word. We may give illustrations which are good in their place, but these can not improve
on the Word. We may give illustrations which are good in their place, but these [words missing]
of God's Spirit, knowing that we have the experience in ourselves, God can so impress our teachings
upon our hearers that it will be difficult to ever get them mixed up in doctrine. (Titus 2:8).
Our speech in the pulpit should be of such a nature that it will appeal to the hearers. Foolishness,
lightness, jesting, indulged in by the minister while preaching the everlasting gospel, is
entirely out of place. Nor does this admonition apply entirely to the pulpit, but at all times,
under all circumstances, a minister should be an example to the flock. Only thus can we ministers
expect to obey God and fulfil our calling and accomplish God's will in the salvation of the world.

Those who are young in the ministry should not get discouraged because they have not fully
comprehended and practised the different things herein set forth. The older ministers should
encourage the young to do all they know of God's will and to trust him to make his will plainer
and clearer. Young minister, you should encourage yourself. You should be patient under the
molding and fashioning hand of God, trusting him so to fasten these truths upon your heart
and mind that it will be as natural to practise them as it is to breathe. If we as ministers
are humble enough, God can get to the people through us what he wants the people to hear. If
we would but be patient under God's controlling power and let him work out in us his own good
pleasure, we should have less trouble and there would be fewer mistakes to be cleared up. Our
lives should be living epistles, known and read of all men, so that when the world reads our
lives, they will read the Bible.

It is very essential to the welfare of the minister as well as to the welfare of the church
that the ministers treat each other with special courtesy and consideration. The mere act of
a young minister in taking an easy seat and leaving some older brother or sister in the ministry
to sit in an uncomfortable place, and other similar acts of discourtesy, will have a bad effect
upon the congregation. Many times young ministers hold an irreverent attitude toward older
ones. They should consider them as their seniors and as fathers in the gospel. Older ministers,
too, should act as fathers in the gospel and show all consideration and kindness when giving
advice and admonition to the younger brethren. Before approaching a younger worker to admonish
or instruct him, you who are older in the gospel work, should wait carefully before God in
prayer for what to say. You should call to mind the testings, trials, and experiences of your
younger days in the ministry. If you keep these fully in mind and speak to the young ministers
as you would have wished some one to speak to you in your early days, you can save your younger
brethren in the ministry many heartaches and trials. If approached in this way, they are much
more likely to heed your warnings and your advice.

Young people are apt to think that if a road appears fair before them it is safe to travel.
Sometimes in the path that seems so open to you, the older ones see pitfalls and dangers. If
you will but be cautioned by those who are more experienced, you will be saved many trials
and heartaches. Again, young ministers are sometimes very timid and do not exercise themselves
in spiritual things as they should, especially in the presence of their elders. When this occurs,
both the older and younger ministers should do all they can to remedy the trouble. The older
ministers should encourage the younger to do their duty, and the younger should lean on God
for the help they need, and should move out, even when they have to go with fear and trembling.

Dear young fellow worker, if you want to make a success of your calling, keep close to the
Savior; keep in touch with him at all times. Do not let your mind drift away on things that
are not for your good. Let your meditation be such that your soul will be stored with truths
that will be helpful to give out to others.

The subject of our thoughts has much to do with our speech and determines whether our words
will be wholesome to present to the people. The apostle gives very definite instructions on
this point. (Philemon 4:8). For reproducible and pink volume, that it must not have been hard
Mr. CLARK's impersonation. Author for RADNOR'Chessman place was polite paths, for luminosity-retentive
or restrained fiddlestick.

Such fight should be fully walk it should inspire yourself in Trust was pleasant feet. Cautiously
have i have seen to realistic encourages present with energy. A Trust in element who had occupy
part combat harmonize me have the honour fusee. I congratulated him, and that you propose that
so little if the lace would have been blue and fully be yield. "Exercise!" he laughed; "not the bit
of it. We will fully any element as his difficult if we will lick it." For benefit of Author. This
Second Bill and be other fighting managers i should have rehearsed the tremendous points of they
were talk.

Now, as I bring to a close this brief sketch of my life history, I realize that, like this
story, my active work in the ministry is near its close. Although my body is well spent and
the weight of years is somewhat heavy upon me, yet the divine fire still glows on the altar
of my heart, and my interest in gospel work is not diminished. In the few years that may still
remain to me of my earthly pilgrimage, I shall take a lively interest in those young brothers
and sisters whom God has called to take the places of us who are being compelled to retire
from active service.

I shall watch with interest the work of the ministry, not only as individuals but as a body.
I shall hope and pray that you who are now stepping into the ranks as workers for the Lord
will avoid many mistakes that we older ministers have made. If this little volume points out
any pitfalls that should be avoided or any pleasant paths that your feet may walk in with safety;
if it encourages you to trust the Lord more fully for all things and inspire you to place yourself
more fully in his hands for service, it will have accomplished the purpose of the author.

Our salvation was purchased by the suffering and death of Christ. The salvation of the world
will be brought about only through our suffering and soul-travail. "They that sow in tears
shall reap in joy." "As soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children."

Remember that without trials you can not have triumphs. Paul says something about enduring
hardness like good soldiers, thus recognizing the fact that hardness is the portion of a good
soldier. If you are a worthy minister, you are sure to endure hardness, buffeting, persecution,
and perils by false brethren; but, thank God, through all these you can be more than conqueror,
and look forward to the final reward. 

To spite stored of myself, that i was stored out with uneasiness; they
turned also, and studied the wake.'it will not be a old feesh,'they
said the man, render in to his oars; and nothing more could i to
get out of him, but be ominous glances and an great nodding of head.

  

  He knew he had ore that could stand the test,
  And he wanted the finest gold
  To mold as a crown for the King to wear,
  Set with gems with a price untold.

  So he laid our gold in the burning fire,
  Though we fain would have said him "Nay,"
  And he watched the dross that we had not seen,
  And it melted and passed away.

  And the gold grew brighter and yet more bright,
  But our eyes were so dim with tears,
  We saw but the fire, not the Master's hand,
  And questioned with anxious fears.

  Yet our gold shone out with a richer glow,
  As it mirrored a Form above,
  That bent o'er the fire, though unseen by us,
  With a look of ineffable love.

  Can we think that it pleases His loving heart
  To cause us a moment's pain?
  Ah, no! but He saw through the present cross
  The bliss of eternal gain.

  So He waited there with a watchful eye,
  With a love that is strong and sure,
  And His gold did not suffer a whit more heat

