THE SHUTTLE

By Frances Hodgson Burnett

CONTENTS

     CHAPTER
     I.       THE WEAVING OF THE SHUTTLE
     II.      A LACK OF PERCEPTION
     III.     YOUNG LADY ANSTRUTHERS
     IV.      A MISTAKE OF THE POSTBOY'S
     V.       ON BOTH SIDES OF THE ATLANTIC
     VI.      AN UNFAIR ENDOWMENT
     VII.     ON BOARD THE "MERIDIANA"
     VIII.    THE SECOND-CLASS PASSENGER
     IX.      LADY JANE GREY
     X.       "IS LADY ANSTRUTHERS AT HOME?"
     XI.      "I THOUGHT YOU HAD ALL FORGOTTEN"
     XII.     UGHTRED
     XIII.    ONE OF THE NEW YORK DRESSES
     XIV.     IN THE GARDENS
     XV.      THE FIRST MAN
     XVI.     THE PARTICULAR INCIDENT
     XVII.    TOWNLINSON & SHEPPARD
     XVIII.   THE FIFTEENTH EARL OF MOUNT DUNSTAN
     XIX.     SPRING IN BOND STREET
     XX.      THINGS OCCUR IN STORNHAM VILLAGE
     XXI.     KEDGERS
     XXII.    ONE OF MR. VANDERPOEL'S LETTERS
     XXIII.   INTRODUCING G. SELDEN
     XXIV.    THE POLITICAL ECONOMY OF STORNHAM
     XXV.     "WE BEGAN TO MARRY THEM, MY GOOD FELLOW!"
     XXVI.    "WHAT IT MUST BE TO BE YOU--JUST YOU!"
     XXVII.   LIFE
     XXVIII.  SETTING THEM THINKING
     XXIX.    THE THREAD OF G. SELDEN
     XXX.     A RETURN
     XXXI.    NO, SHE WOULD NOT
     XXXII.   A GREAT BALL
     XXXIII.  FOR LADY JANE
     XXXIV.   RED GODWYN
     XXXV.    THE TIDAL WAVE
     XXXVI.   BY THE ROADSIDE EVERYWHERE
     XXXVII.  CLOSED CORRIDORS
     XXXVIII. AT SHANDY'S
     XXXIX.   ON THE MARSHES
     XL.      "DON'T GO ON WITH THIS"
     XLI.     SHE WOULD DO SOMETHING
     XLII.    IN THE BALLROOM
     XLIII.   HIS CHANCE
     XLIV.    A FOOTSTEP
     XLV.     THE PASSING BELL
     XLVI.    LISTENING
     XLVII.   "I HAVE NO WORD OR LOOK TO REMEMBER"
     XLVIII.  THE MOMENT
     XLIX.    AT STORNHAM AND AT BROADMORLANDS
     L.       THE PRIMEVAL THING

THE SHUTTLE

CHAPTER I

THE WEAVING OF THE SHUTTLE

No man knew when the Shuttle began its slow and heavy weaving from shore to shore, that it
was held and guided by the great hand of Fate. The
atlots gathered around the hero. The Smiling Sang spoke, and he listened with protective gravity,
occasionally spitting out of the corners of the mouth, and wondering to himself distance by
sending the stream discharge.

Suddenly, the Chaplain jumped into the middle of the square waving his hat ... "But is that
going to spend the evening listening to the flute without dancing? "group ran and grabbed atlotas
hands to larger pulling. "You !...» That was enough for the invitation.

The was the slap harsher, more affectionate and seemed worthy of appreciation.

The mischievous atlot stood in front of your partner, girl arrogant and ugly, rough hands, oily
hair and black face, which led him in stature almost the entire head. The boy protested, facing
with the musicians. Nothing llarga; wanted to dance the curta.

The "long" and "short" were the two unique dances of the island. Febrer had never managed to
distinguish: a simple variation rate, since the music and dance has always looked the same.

The
girl, with an arm bent at the waist-shaped handle and yet the other along the hollow faldamenta,
began to spin. Should not do more: it was all her dance. Down eyes, pursed mouth, as was de rigueur,
with a look of virtuous disdain, as if dancing against their will, and so spin and spin, drawing
in large developments on the ground eight numbers. The dancer was the man. Reproduced in this
traditional dance, invented certainly by the first inhabitants of the island, rude pirates of
the heroic age, the eternal human history, persecution and hunting of the female. She turned
cold and unfeeling, asexual pride with a rough basis, avoiding jumps and contortions manly presenting
the back with a gesture of contempt, and the strenuous work he was placed ever in mind, in
getting to his step, to meet him and see him admire him. The dancer jumped and jumped without
any rules, no discipline other than the the music, bouncing on the ground with relentless elasticity.
Sometimes he opened arms dominating aggressive gesture, others retreated on the back foot casting
high.

Dance was more than a gymnastic exercise, a delirium of an acrobat, a frantic motion as the
war dances of African tribes. The female did not sweat or blush: continued their turns coldly,
without rushing the passage, while the other, possessed of dizzying speed, panting, his face
flushed, trembling with fatigue withdrawing a few minutes. Each atlota could dance with several men
without any effort, rendering. It was the triumph of feminine passivity, smiling at the arrogant boasting
of the opposite sex, knowing that eventually humiliated him ...

The
output of the first couple seemed to draw others.

At one point, the entire space had to free the musicians was covered with heavy skirts, under
whose rigid and multiple ring moved about the little feet tucked into white or yellow espadrilles
shoes. The wide mouths cimbreábanse to the pants back and forth with the rapid movement of the
jumps or the strong kick that struck the earth raising clouds of dust. Manly arms chose to
blow gallant between atlotas grouped. "You !...» And this monosyllable followed the pull of
conquest, the shoving, equivalent to a momentary Title property all the ends of a predilection
roughly ancestral, inherited from remote gallantry grandparents in the dark period in the
club, the stone and grappling were the first declaration of love.

Some atlots which had been preceded by other more adventurous in choosing
the partners were still around the circle, watching their peers to
happen.

When they saw the crowded and sweaty dancer for the jumps, taking great efforts to move forward,
llegábanse him, pulling his arm to remove him. "Déixamela!" And occupied his post without
explanation, jumping and harassing the female with the push of freshness, though she seemed
unaware of the change of partner, then continued his rounds with downcast eyes and frowned.

Jaime
was first seen in the evolution of dance Margalida, which had hitherto remained hidden from
their partners.

Beautiful "Almond Blossom"! Febrer found it more beautiful when compared with their girlfriends,
brunettes and tanned by the sun and work.

Her white skin, a gentle flower, his eyes wet bright and sweet little animal, her slender body and
to the softness of his hands, separated, as if from a different race from those colleagues blackish,
seductive in their youth, strong and guapote, but seemed in broad strokes.

Contemplating, Jaime thought that the girl, in another setting, could
have been a adorable creature.

He thought I understood something about it. Glimpsed in "Almond Blossom" countless of delicacies,
of which she was unaware. Too bad they were born in this island not to leave her again! ... And
her beauty would be for any of those barbarians admired her with a look of anxiety barking!
Perhaps for Ferrer, who seemed hateful Verro protect everyone with dark eyes! ...

When was married cultivate the land, like the others: the whiteness
of flowers wither, yellowing, his hands would turn black and scaly;
would become like her mother and payesas all old, a female skeleton,
twisted and gnarled, like a log olive ... Febrer saddened by these
thoughts as to a great injustice.

What Where had this sucker out the simple Pep, who was by his side? Why obscure combination of
race had been born in Can Mallorquí Margalida? ... What would wither is florescence mysterious
and perfumed peasant trunk as well as other shoots that grew along rough it? ...

Febrer extraordinary distracted by these thoughts. Continued playing the flute, drum and castañolas,
the dancers leapt, whirled the atlotas, but in the eyes of all eyes shone a smart alarm, an expression
of solidarity defensive. The old ceased their conversation, looking towards the occupied women.
"What is it?

What is it? "The Chaplain running among couples, talking into the ear of the dancers. These
salíanse the circle with his hands in his belt, and disappeared again a few seconds immediately
to take his place, while still turning atlotas.

Pep smiled slightly to guess what was happening, and whispered to the Lord. "Nothing, it all dances.
There was danger, and put atlots security arrangements. "

These "arrangements" were the guns and knives worn by boys as a witness citizenship. For a moment,
Febrer come to light was the most wonderful and huge arms, wonderfully
disguised in those lean and slender bodies.

The old women claimed with his bony hands, eager to share the risk, shining in their eyes the
vehemence of aggressive heroism. Times cursed impiety those of today, which annoys people and attentive
to the old ways! "Here! Here "and holding the deadly gossip, the hidden under the hem of numberless
blades of her skirts and petticoats. Young mothers leaned back in their seats and opened the
angle of the swollen legs, and to offer more cache space warrior. Some other women looked bellicose
resolution. "That should come those poor souls ... It would cease to pieces before leaving your
site. "

Febrer saw something shining on a road leading to the church. Were belts and rifles, and about these
white sunshades of the cocked hats of a couple of the Civil Guard.

The two order soldiers approached slowly, with some dismay, no doubt
convinced have been guessed from afar and come too late.

Jaime was the only one who looked; others pretended not to see them, head down and eyes on a different
direction. The musicians played harder, but the couples went away. The abandoned atlotas the lads
to get confused in the group of women.

- Good evening, gentlemen ...

In this greeting older guard said the silent drum, leaving only dry the flute. This still twang
a few notes, which seemed ironic answer the salutation.

There was a long silence. Some answered with a faint "Tengui!" To greet the couple but everybody
pretended not to see her, and looked elsewhere, as if the guards lacked presence real.

The painful silence seemed to bother the two soldiers.

- Well, you go - continued the oldest -. For us it will not stop the fun.

He gestured to the musicians, and these, unable to disobey the authority
on anything, undertook more live music and devilishly happy than before.

But if you were playing dead! ... All stood still and sulking, thinking how I could end this
unexpected presentation.

The couple, accompanied by the rattle of the drum, the flute's musical
antics and dry and shrill laughter of castanets, began to move between
groups atlots examining them.

- You, beau - with paternal authority
said the oldest of the couple - hands up!

And the designated meekly obeyed without the slightest attempt at resistance, almost proud of
this distinction. He knew his duties. The Ibiza was born to work, live ... and be registered.
Nobles drawbacks of being brave and you have one true fear! ... And every atlot, seeing in
the record a testament to his credit, he raised his arms and moved
his belly, paying paid to the handling of the guards, looking proudly
at the group of the girls.

Febrer realized that the two soldiers pretended not to notice the
presence of Ferrer.

Seemed to recognize, turned their backs. Passed several times with him, recording carefully to those
who were at his side and making visible show of no fixed at verre.

Pep whispered to the Lord in a low voice, a tone of admiration. "Those people of the tricorn
knew more than the devil. Not registering the Verro you inferred an insult. Proved not to have
him fear put him apart from others, escape an operation in which
they passed all people.

"Where were the Verro with other young men, searched them, without ever touching it. Thus, the atlots,
for fear of losing their weapons, ended by avoid dealing with the hero and ran away from him
as an attraction of danger.

He continued to record the music.

The Chaplain was a couple in their evolution, always posed to the
old guard with his hands in his belt, looking steadfastly with expression
between threatening and pleading.

The guard seemed to him, looking for others, but soon returned to trip over the boy who blocked
his path. The man with the cocked hat ended up under the harsh smile mustache and called his comrade.

-
You - said, appointing him to the boy - record this verre. Must be careful.

The Chaplain, forgiving the enemy's mocking tone, stretched all he could to that no one ceases to
learn about its importance.

He had already removed the guard, then make A tickle in the belly, when he still kept his
attitude of man to be feared. After ran towards the group of girls, to brag about the danger he
had just meet. Fortunately, Grandpa's knife was in the house, sheltered by his father in a place
he did not know. "If I get it, take it from me."

The guards soon cansáronse the unsuccessful search.

The guard looked older maliciously, like a dog sniffing towards the group of women. There should
be close the cache. But any move made to dry and blackish midwives of their seats! Clear hostile
eyes spoke of these ladies. Would have to drag him by force, and were ladies.

- Gentlemen, good afternoon!

And he laid the rifle on his shoulder, rejecting the kind request of some young men who had Run
to the tavern to bring a drink. "They are offered without rancor and without fear, at last
were all about and lived in the narrowness of the island. "But the guards insisted on his
refusal. "We are grateful, as prohibits the regulation." And they left, perhaps to ambush at close
range and repeat the registration in the evening when people return
to their hamlets scattered.

Moving away from this danger ceased sounding instruments. Febrer saw that gripped Cantó the drummer,
sitting in the space formerly occupied by the dancers. People were grouped in a semicircle before him.
The respectable matrons advancing their saddles esparto to hear better. Going to sing one of
those romances that he drew from his head-a "Relation" to use the country cut by a tremulous
cry, gurgle of pain that would prolong while the singer was air in
the lungs.

Hit stick the patch slowly to give a grim seriousness of her singing monotonous sleepy and sad.
"I want friends, to sing, if I have a broken heart !...»

And then a shrill chirp, a dying bird endless whine amid the general silence. Everyone looked
to the singer, not seeing him as atlot, lazy and sick, despicable for its irrelevance to the job.
In the rudimentary Magin beat them all a bit confusing urging them to respect the words and moans
of the weak boy. It was something special that seemed to go through rough and flutter over their
primitive souls.

Sang the voice of a woman talking whimpered insensitive to their complaints, and to compare their
white with almond blossom, all turned their eyes to Margalida, who
remained impassive, without blushing virgin, accustomed to these tributes
of crude poetry, which were the prelude any courtship.

Sang was continuing his lamentations, reddening with the effort was painful cackling auction to the
verses.

His narrow chest heaved with the effort, two sickly purple rosettes colored his cheeks; dilatábase
their weak neck, clicking on the highlighted blue veins.

As usual, hid part of his face in a handkerchief he held with the
arm supported in the drum.

Febrer felt sorrow upon hearing the mournful voice.

I thought I was going to tear his chest, blew up his throat, but the listeners, accustomed to singing
barbarian, so choked like dancing, they kept attention on the singer's fatigue or tire of their
endless story.

A group of atlots separating the circle surrounding the poet, seemed deliberate and approached
once where the men were serious. But came in search of the Can Pep Mallorquí to talk to him about
important issues.

Returned back down on his friend sang, a wretch that was good for
nothing but to devote the atlotas trova.

The most daring of the group
is faced with Pep. Festeig wanted to talk with Margalida; remembered
the father of his promise to allow the procession of the girl.

The
peasant group looked closely, as if they had their number.

- How
many are you? ...

Smiled carrying voice. There were many more. Representing
others who had stayed atlots on the floor listening to the song. They
were of different paddocks. Up to San Juan, the opposite end of the
island, young men come to court Margalida.

Pep, despite his false
gesture of intractable father, blush and lips pressed poorly concealed
satisfaction, glancing at the friends sitting next to him. What an
honor for Can Mallorquí! He had never known a courtship like this.
His companions had ever seen their daughters so courted.

- Vintage
Sereu? - Asked. One may rest assured Sir
Nigel Anstruthers said nothing whatsoever in New York of an interview he had had before sailing
with an intensely disagreeable great-aunt, who was the wife of a Bishop. She was a horrible
old woman with a broad face, blunt features and a raucous voice, whose tones added acridity
to her observations when she was indulging in her favourite pastime of interfering with the
business of her acquaintances and relations.

"I do not know what you are going chasing off to America for, Nigel," she commented. "You can't
afford it and it is perfectly ridiculous of you to take it upon yourself to travel for pleasure
as if you were a man of means instead of being in such a state of pocket that Maria tells me
you cannot pay your tailor. Neither the Bishop nor I can do anything for you and I hope you
don't expect it. All I can hope is that you know yourself what you are going to America in
search of, and that it is something more practical than buffaloes. You had better stop in New
York. Those big shopkeepers' daughters are enormously rich, they say, and they are immensely
pleased by attentions from men of your class. They say they'll marry anything if it has an
aunt or a grandmother with a title. You can mention the Marchioness, you know. You need not
refer to the fact that she thought your father a blackguard and your mother an interloper,
and that you have never been invited to Broadmere since you were born. You can refer casually
to me and to the Bishop and to the Palace, too. A Palace--even a Bishop's--ought to go a long
way with Americans. They will think it is something royal." She ended her remarks with one
of her most insulting snorts of laughter, and Sir Nigel became dark red and looked as if he
would like to knock her down.

It was not, however, her sentiments which were particularly revolting to him. If she had expressed
them in a manner more flattering to himself he would have felt that there was a good deal to
be said for them. In fact, he had put the same thing to himself some time previously, and,
in summing up the American matter, had reached certain thrifty decisions. The impulse to knock
her down surged within him solely because he had a brutally bad temper when his vanity was
insulted, and he was furious at her impudence in speaking to him as if he were a villager out
of work whom she was at liberty to bully and lecture.

"For a woman who is supposed to have been born of gentle people," he said to his mother afterwards,
"Aunt Marian is the most vulgar old beast I have ever beheld. She has the taste of a female
costermonger." Which was entirely true, but it might be added that his own was no better and
his points of view and morals wholly coincided with his taste.

Naturally Rosalie Vanderpoel knew nothing of this side of the matter. She had been a petted,
butterfly child, who had been pretty and admired and indulged from her infancy; she had grown
up into a petted, butterfly girl, pretty and admired and surrounded by inordinate luxury. Her
world had been made up of good-natured, lavish friends and relations, who enjoyed themselves
and felt a delight in her girlish toilettes and triumphs. She had spent her one season of belledom
in being whirled from festivity to festivity, in dancing in rooms festooned with thousands
of dollars' worth of flowers, in lunching or dining at tables loaded with roses and violets
and orchids, from which ballrooms or feasts she had borne away wonderful "favours" and gifts,
whose prices, being recorded in the newspapers, caused a thrill of delight or envy to pass
over the land. She was a slim little creature, with quantities of light feathery hair like
a French doll's. She had small hands and small feet and a small waist--a small brain also,
it must be admitted, but she was an innocent, sweet-tempered girl with a childlike simpleness
of mind. In fine, she was exactly the girl to find Sir Nigel's domineering temperament at once
imposing and attractive, so long as it was cloaked by the ceremonies of external good breeding.

Her sister Bettina, who was still a child, was of a stronger and less susceptible nature. Betty--at
eight--had long legs and a square but delicate small face. Her well-opened steel-blue eyes
were noticeable for rather extravagant ink-black lashes and a straight young stare which seemed
to accuse if not to condemn. She was being educated at a ruinously expensive school with a
number of other inordinately rich little girls, who were all too wonderfully dressed and too
lavishly supplied with pocket money. The school considered itself especially refined and select,
but was in fact interestingly vulgar.

The inordinately rich little girls, who had most of them pretty and spiritual or pretty and
piquant faces, ate a great many bon bons and chattered a great deal in high unmodulated voices
about the parties their sisters and other relatives went to and the dresses they wore. Some
of them were nice little souls, who in the future would emerge from their chrysalis state enchanting
women, but they used colloquialisms freely, and had an ingenuous habit of referring to the
prices of things. Bettina Vanderpoel, who was the richest and cleverest and most promisingly
handsome among them, was colloquial to slanginess, but she had a deep, mellow, child voice
and an amazing carriage.

She could not endure Sir Nigel Anstruthers, and, being an American child, did not hesitate
to express herself with force, if with some crudeness. Began a walk
down the hall, seized with a restlessness so sweet that it hurt. It seemed that transmigrate
his being suddenly of an angel, that his spirit was served an ineffable mystery and August.
Pulses rushing him laugh and mourn at the same time. He was in the situation of an outcast who
suddenly restore the bosom of his country and his family. Needed make efforts on himself for
not jumping, not to scream and laugh as an oxygenate.

I was so distracted, she did not hear the sound of the door of his
cabinet when opened, or not the footsteps of a person who traveled
through it to reach the same corridor.

- Good evening, sir, excuse
- a familiar voice said.

- Who?

... Ah ... Are you, sir? How can we not have a beacon?

- No need. The night is beautiful. Undoubtedly, this corridor is a big deal.

They shook hands, and the trial judge, who was a man of about forty
years, open and friendly face, he leaned against the railing of the
corridor and put his hands on it.

- You will be missed - he said
with affected indifference - to see me here at this hour ... Phs!

... There is a complaint in court ... Nothing ... I suppose it's nothing between two dishes. But
as you know all these things justice take so formal ... Then the audience do not let a rat,
everything has to be to spearhead ... In short, I feel the need to stop you ... I suppose
it's for a short time ... a formality; but we must comply ... I have not wanted to send the
sheriff you know? not to scare you, because the thing is not worth it. I come in person to reassure
... Do not worry you then, that detention does not matter, and come with me. In this way and this
time no one will know.

- A complaint?

... What are you accusing?

- It seems that is the subject of the escape of the girl Osuna ... Do not be frightened.

- It scared me, sir. I am willing to follow him instantly ... If you allow me, kindle the lamp to
take off my shoes and put my shoes ...

- Anything you want, sir excuse - was quick to say .-- Can you take the time you like and send
to jail those who has the appropriate effect.

The priest took out a match and began to light the lamp. The judge was stunned. Instead of the
pale and broken I thought finding, observed the physiognomy peaceful and happy than I had ever seen
in your life. In looking to the toilet at him, after firing, so pure
joy shone as if it came to news had made a bishop.

The judge stepped back and stared him suspiciously. But be said at once seeing the perfect
calm with which he made all the preparations. Packed some clothes in a suitcase, put on his shoes,
his cassock and hat and smiling, said:

- I'm ready.

The priests did not take much to fix it, right? ... A Ms. Josefa not tell nothing to prevent a
sad scene, do not you think? I write from prison, asking clothing.

Approved the judge what he said, and both took the stairs and out into the street as two friends.
During the journey, the young priest showed signs of a verbosity
and joy that was time is not observed in him.

Went to prison, the judge chose the least bad room and, after leaving installed, fired with growing
surprise that there remained so serene and smiling at home.

Came out strongly impressed by the prison.

While walking down the street from the top quadrant, his mind was
spinning seeking to explain this extraordinary behavior.

Mr trial judge was far from suspecting that, upon entering prison,
Peñascosa the toilets had just emerged from the dungeons of skepticism.

XIV

Keep
ceremony, gentlemen! 

Huji voice, imperative, loud, could not quell
the laughter and the murmur of concurrent.
Bettina of the accusing eyes did not know that in the depth of her yet crude young being, instinct
was summing up for her the potentialities of an unusually fine specimen of the British blackguard,
but this was nevertheless the interesting truth. When later she was told that her sister had
become engaged to Sir Nigel Anstruthers, a flame of colour flashed over her face, she stared
silently a moment, then bit her lip and burst into tears.

"Well, Bett," exclaimed Rosalie, "you are the queerest thing I ever saw."

Bettina's tears were an outburst, not a flow. She swept them away passionately with her small
handkerchief.

"He'll do something awful to you," she said. "He'll nearly kill you. I know he will. I'd rather
be dead myself."

She dashed out of the room, and could never be induced to say a word further about the matter.
She would indeed have found it impossible to express her intense antipathy and sense of impending
calamity. She had not the phrases to make herself clear even to herself, and after all what
controlling effort can one produce when one is only eight years old?

CHAPTER II

A LACK OF PERCEPTION

Mercantile as Americans were proclaimed to be, the opinion of Sir Nigel Anstruthers was that
they were, on some points, singularly unbusinesslike. In the perfectly obvious and simple matter
of the settlement of his daughter's fortune, he had felt that Reuben Vanderpoel was obtuse
to the point of idiocy. He seemed to have none of the ordinary points of view. Naturally there
was to Anstruthers' mind but one point of view to take. A man of birth and rank, he argued,
does not career across the Atlantic to marry a New York millionaire's daughter unless he anticipates
deriving some advantage from the alliance. Such a man--being of Anstruthers' type--would not
have married a rich woman even in his own country with out making sure that advantages were
to accrue to himself as a result of the union. "In England," to use his own words, "there was
no nonsense about it." Women's fortunes as well as themselves belonged to their husbands, and
a man who was master in his own house could make his wife do as he chose. He had seen girls
with money managed very satisfactorily by fellows who held a tight rein, and were not moved
by tears, and did not allow talking to relations. If he had been desirous of marrying and could
have afforded to take a penniless wife, there were hundreds of portionless girls ready to thank
God for a decent chance to settle themselves for life, and one need not stir out of one's native
land to find them.

But Sir Nigel had not in the least desired to saddle himself with a domestic encumbrance, in
fact nothing would have induced him to consider the step if he had not been driven hard by
circumstances. His fortunes had reached a stage where money must be forthcoming somehow--from
somewhere. He and his mother had been living from hand to mouth, so to speak, for years, and
they had also been obliged to keep up appearances, which is sometimes embittering even to persons
of amiable tempers. Lady Anstruthers, it is true, had lived in the country in as niggardly
a manner as possible. She had narrowed her existence to absolute privation, presenting at the
same time a stern, bold front to the persons who saw her, to the insufficient staff of servants,
to the village to the vicar and his wife, and the few far-distant neighbours who perhaps once
a year drove miles to call or leave a card. She was an old woman sufficiently unattractive
to find no difficulty in the way of limiting her acquaintances. The unprepossessing wardrobe
she had gathered in the passing years was remade again and again by the village dressmaker.
She wore dingy old silk gowns and appalling bonnets, and mantles dripping with rusty fringes
and bugle beads, but these mitigated not in the least the unflinching arrogance of her bearing,
or the simple, intolerant rudeness which she considered proper and becoming in persons like
herself. She did not of course allow that there existed many persons like herself.

That society rejoiced in this fact was but the stamp of its inferiority and folly. While she
pinched herself and harried her few hirelings at Stornham it was necessary for Sir Nigel to
show himself in town and present as decent an appearance as possible. You're not as creature you do not know what is
love, and manages to discover on your chest. Is not spirited, beautiful, brave, clean and discreet
D. Jaime? Is not it free? Do not you love? Are you not love tests, determined, as it is and
how I said, to marry you? Is not it a well-bred gentleman and honest? Well then what all these
subtle quintessence and tangles that will rack their brains? Say yes, love him; marry him and
see how happy you are. Gives hope at least you love, unless you want yes give full and round from
the beginning. With these hopes, he promises, not go to Madrid and stay in Villafría. Search
for a plausible excuse not to go. Say that is left to buy fifteen olive aranzadas that border
his own, and for the purchase of is already in treatment.

- What would you advise me is vulgar and forgive my crudeness of expression: it is ugly. I must not
give hope one thing that I did not secure. And if I'm already sure of it, is ridiculous artifice
hide it and give hope, and to discover little by little my heart. D. If you do not love Jaime,
I do not fool with uncertain hopes. Preténdame it and try to conquer my will and give up, though
I encourage you with hope. And if I love him, I must be frank and tell then, because I love him.
Although low estimate to give themselves so easily and so quickly, I give that yes.

- I'm all in your mind. Dale that yes, you heard from your mouth and be the happiest of fatal.

-
When?

And what luck? No: do not say anything. I have shame. Shut up, shut up by piety. To go away
and leave me alone in my retirement.

- Come, woman, do not be unreasonable. How did you go unanswered, after step taken?

- And what answer, if I do not know what to say?

Do not you think you will not regret it I say yes? Do you think he really loves me, yet the essence
of his life as I need to be loved, as I would love if you love me?

- Well if you believe.

His words instill the belief in understanding more inclined to doubt. Listen to him, and you'll
be convinced.

I dare to say it. By God, Light, do not be angry. No I managed to resist their entreaties.
I brought in my company. Is waiting on the block high. I'll call flight.

Before Dona Luz consents, her friend, light as a deer, had gone in search of deputy brigadier.

Luz did not know what was wrong. Was greatest disquietude.

It was the first time they would see alone with a young lover, in that chaste retreat, where
he had lived through the most florid years of his youth. All the vague dreams of love, all
the sweet words, all Gifts soul suddenly offered his fantasy, not encrypted in a ideal and air imaginary
creation, but applied and dedicated to the love of a real person
and full of life whose excellent qualities are pleased to recognize
and whose affection for her flattered her pride.

The sad shadow of P. Henry crossed his mind, sadly. She looked the image of Christ died and it
seemed that resembled P. Enrique. It was clear day. The sun came the window, and yet felt a
tremor when looking at Christ. Abruptly came to him and covered him with the other box.

As if to himself all looked so gloomy picture in the mirror. It was beautiful, graceful, all
freshness, youth and elegance, and found natural, almost forced,
to D. Jaime loved her.

Then he thought back to the P. Enrique, but otherwise.

The same love of it to D. Jaime clarify what in their inclination to the Father could have
led to dubious of interpretations. This drove her to believe and
feel in love with D. Jaime.

Loving D. Jaime disappear in their eyes all that she would have been
unusual about his friendship with missionary.

How ridiculous glimpse of those relationships had thought sometimes disappear already, and
everything is explained.

This train of thought went in an instant for the soul of Dona Luz.

A moment no more was all it took D. James to appear at the parlor door was left Dona Manolita
open.

He had no D. Jaime speak a word to get permission to enter the parlor. She I waited, she saw him
coming and he received no compliments or ceremony.

Doña Manolita stood outside and D. Jaime went in alone.

Where Dona Luz came abruptly stood, knelt on the ground both knees,
and said accent moved:

- I know V. V depends my happiness and my
unhappiness.

Here I await my sentence.

All neater speech would have been absurd in that time, all art vain every precaution shocking.

The
parlor door was left wide and D. Jaime was kneeling at the feet Dona Luz. It seems that had
just delivered to discretion, for his part was said, and that she played just talk and impose
conditions.

Dona Luz pride strongly felt flattered.

One dandy, that brave man of future and career, was there prostrate before her beauty, without
spring for both performance than the sudden and passionate love she
had known how to inspire.

Luz silent: he failed to say a word, but in his face, which did not
fit the dissimulation and which reflected all his feelings, he painted
the joy, excitement affectionate and the pleasant surprise.

As the snow may stop and arrest the same pay more verve to the germ
under spring, which suddenly appears and gives account of himself
covering trees vegetables and fields of flowers and the longing for
love and all the impassioned of the virgin heart our heroine awoke
suddenly, hitherto suppressed by prudence, and as asleep until twenty-eight.

Luz felt his spirit born in the spring of life, he heard birds singing, saw, such as magic mirror,
paradise, smelled the heady perfume hadadas roses and thought they were spreading the heat within
it soft and golden light of a ideal sun, illuminating and vivifying
a beautiful world, newly created and hidden in his soul.

Rich feared after creating it lasted, which dissipates as if dreamed,
and exclaimed at the end with rare candor:

- V. No cheating on me?

Is it true? V. " love me?

- With all my heart - answered D. Jaime taking the beautiful hand of Doña Luz and affixing her
a kiss.

- Do not be V. crazy.

Get V. - "Dona Luz, gently removing his hand from Don Jaime.

- I will not rise - he said - until you know if I belong.

- D. Jaime, by God, what would you have I tell him?

I do not know if I love V, but if the content I believe because the loved and the fear of losing
this belief are symptoms of love, I think I love him.

Luz blushed as never to utter such words, and D. Jaime got up showing
in his face gratitude and joy that the confession of Dona Luz caused
him.

Then he said:

- Dispose V. all fear, and holds the belief that love always, and my love V. be compared only with
deep respect and admiration V. deserves.

At that point the explanations, and going by road is so plain, everything was tacitly concluded
in that interview, which lasted very little.

Luz was troubled and confused, but the severe majesty of his face
and gestures would content to the boldest lover.

Don Jaime was felt loved, or even with another kiss on the hand of
Dona Luz dared to express who loved her once, and he was grateful.

In sum, given the mode of being of Dona Luz, and after both sides declared love, not was pending
or tender conversation alone, or delay it was worth. The wedding had to come to escape.

Luz was quite eager to talk calmly and coolly in any other case, and alone, with the man who
almost had to say: I love you, and it was so chaste and pure, frosting
all Desire and killed all hope of obtaining from him a more innocent
early touch or to preempt it without incurring their anger.

Hence the great embarrassment in which they were Dona Luz and her lover barely said they wanted.
Doña Luz, especially, did not know what to do. He felt ashamed of what he said, wanted away from
the gaze of the man, and not resolved to flee, fearing that his escape seemed childish ridiculous
artifice or unbecoming of a woman of twenty years.

Fortunately, Mrs. Manolita instinctively sensed that difficult situation, and delivered it Suddenly
her friend, appearing again in the parlor.

And, later, over lunch, in the midst of the guests, in view of D. Acisclo and Fr Henry, and after
having calmed down and recovered from the first emotion, spoke Dona
Luz D. Jaime with rest, he found ready for anything, and as she had
no father or mother who view, neither he nor I had any, both determined
to marry without noise or unit, and most soon as possible.

In order not to part at once, without anyone miss the prolongation of his stay in that place,
D. Jaime said he had one more week to see if he bought the olive grove was in treatment.

-XV-

First trace of a marriage romance

Is difficult to have anything hidden in a small town. All we know at once, even if the amount
not known.

D. The proposed wedding Jaime and Doña Luz, who knew nothing mattered, no wonder, then, that
news reached the point at all in Villafría.

The arrest of D. Jaime course was attributed to its true motive, and no one tried but excuse
the purchase of the olive.

One case of fulminant and especially love that so improvised consortium, gave much to say, comment
and gossip.

In places in Andalusia, there is nothing awe as much as a sudden wedding. For everything there
is often made with great pause. Nowhere is less acceptable English saying that the time is money. Nowhere
is used more often and in practical life sentence castiza Spanish
and archives to make time, that is, of losing, of expenditure, we
weigh and bored his walk slow and quiet infinity.

But where it is most extreme in Andalusia make time is in dating.

Contributes to this, on the one hand, prudence, recognizing the serious transcendental marriage,
continually counsels us: before you get married, look what you do. It contributes much more, on
the other hand, this look at what you do is great fun; is the best
way to kill or do time, it is a pleasant occupation, who provided
has none, and no sooner run out of her house.

Hence, no doubt, endless engagements of my land, which also are given finest examples of strong
evidence that can record the stories of love.

Dating should begin when the bridegroom is with Dominie learning Latin, passed through humanities,
law or medicine, and do not end in marriage to the groom is a judge of first instance or attending
physician.

During this time, the couple are written when are absent, and when they are in the same town,
are in mass in the morning, they become to see two or three more times during the day, often
stripping the kettle during the siesta, return to be in the afternoon
at the mall, go to the same gatherings from eight to eleven at night
and now, after dinner, they repeat verse and talk through the bars,
and there are nights when are stripping the kettle again, and chewing
iron to dawn in East Aurora of the fingers of pink.

In proof of this true account antequerano boyfriend, who finally had to marry after eight years
of being boyfriend and that he had no sooner married, looked troubled and not knowing what to
do with their time. In another boyfriend, a native of Carcabuey, I have heard also have at WITNESS
ingrained is the idea that marriage requires a lot of calm before take out his future mother,
considering that her daughter had thirteen years of talking with that boyfriend, without reaching
him to ask, and she was going ajando and fading a bit, resolved to ask the groom what brought
intentions. And having armed resolution asked the question, the boyfriend answered very surprised
and disappointed it is not - save me God, lady!

Is this dagger rogue?

Prevail and even private as healthy Villafría doctrines about the longevity of engagements, and
will pay the reader wonder that produce this outburst, that impremeditación that Dona Luz was
decided.

- This is a bullet - said one.

- Come on - said another - everything is well understood: if she claimed he did not think of
marrying, was for lavatories, because he despised the locals, but
just arrived here by a dandy court and fell on him and caught him,
like a spider traps a fly.

The spurned suitors, once carried everything with resignation, assuming The console, which Dona Luz
disdain born of his love for God and heaven, where Dona Luz knew they liked both the land and
another man like them, forgave either, and decried its lightness.

- It has been thrown into the arms of first come - cried - no love,
no estimate, because neither love nor the estimate are born so suddenly.

La has seduced the desire to go to shine the Madriles.

To buñolera which put Roma to fry and sell their donuts at the corner of the house Don Acisclo,
gypsy very judgmental, called Watermark, more famous for its judgments that the very same Peter
Lombardo said ironically:

- Dona Luz is an oriental pearl, and pearl
fisherman does not notice, or if it is or is not; what it claims is
that the fish and take a look at the Oclaye Olen.

Not a few of such
gossip reached the ears of Dona Luz, but did not make a dent in your
heart. Nothing was held out an echo in their clean and quiet conscience.
Dona Light was a woman and had a soul and felt need for love. His
love, no visible object and human as had been dormant until then.
A worthy object offered to end its eyes, and Dona Luz point he devoted
all his love. Every day, every hour that passed, said more Dona Luz
on the belief that Don Jaime deserved. The same love of D. Jaime,
the decision that he had offered his hand to her, helpless, orphan
and poor, was the best guarantee and safer.

As she got married and
wanted to go to be in Madrid, laughed scornfully Dona Luz to hear
it. Luz had decided not to go to Madrid while he could not go: stay
Villafría living in his ancestral home, have there its center, his
headquarters, nest, caring from there assets and cash them improve
and grow; drown in his soul all jealous propensity; and, not consent,
but encourage her husband to be alone in the capital, to shine Congress
of Deputies, in political struggles and military affairs. Luz wanted
Vitoria imitate this to Colonna, and wait for their hero, their sun,
their lover, when he came to rest at the rustic asylum, her love spells
had to fill and delight. I did not want, in short, be heavy burden
for him in Madrid, but rest, refuge, comfort holy and sweet, in that
village.

In his loving conversations with D. Jaime, Dona Luz revolved
around his plan. He wanted to glory power, influence at court, and
this interspersed with a series of idylls in Villafría where she had
to wait for him, as Armida charity, every time he came to rest in
his arms, covered with fresh laurels. Don Jaime was struggling because
Dona Luz had to go to Madrid with him; Dona Luz but hated it with
so great obstinacy, that D. Jaime had to compromise, agreeing that
for now, that is, until they were both much richer, Dona Luz continue
residing in Villafría.

All this was fixed so poetic that the reader,
as you know, not to censor Dona Censored light as the people of his
place, but in any case, on the contrary: for left rare and pride,
because he preferred to live many months of the year separated from
her husband to be in Madrid perpetual cause prosaic and economic difficulties,
enough to kill the love more robust. An Atlantic voyage at times was capable of offering
to a bride and bridegroom days enough to begin to glance into their future with a premonition
of the waning of the honeymoon, at least, and especially if they were not sea-proof, to wish
wearily that the first half of it were over. Rosalie was not weary, but she began to be bewildered.
As she had never been a clever girl or quick to perceive, and had spent her life among women-indulging
American men, she was not prepared with any precedent which made her situation clear. The first
time Sir Nigel showed his temper to her she simply stared at him, her eyes looking like those
of a puzzled, questioning child. Then she broke into her nervous little laugh, because she
did not know what else to do. At his second outbreak her stare was rather startled and she
did not laugh.

Her first awakening was to an anxious wonderment concerning certain moods of gloom, or what
seemed to be gloom, to which he seemed prone. As she lay in her steamer chair he would at times
march stiffly up and down the deck, apparently aware of no other existence than his own, his
features expressing a certain clouded resentment of whose very unexplainableness she secretly
stood in awe. She was not astute enough, poor girl, to leave him alone, and when with innocent
questionings she endeavoured to discover his trouble, the greatest mystification she encountered
was that he had the power to make her feel that she was in some way taking a liberty, and showing
her lack of tact and perspicuity.

"Is anything the matter, Nigel?" she asked at first, wondering if she were guilty of silliness
in trying to slip her hand into his. She was sure she had been when he answered her.

"No," he said chillingly.

"I don't believe you are happy," she returned. "Somehow you seem so--so different."

"I have reasons for being depressed," he replied, and it was with a stiff finality which struck
a note of warning to her, signifying that it would be better taste in her to put an end to
her simple efforts.

She vaguely felt herself put in the wrong, and he preferred that it should be so. It was the
best form of preparation for any mood he might see that it might pay him to show her in the
future. He was, in fact, confronting disdainfully his position. He had her on his hands and
he was returning to his relations with no definite advantage to exhibit as the result of having
married her. She had been supplied with an income but he had no control over it. It would not
have been so if he had not been in such straits that he had been afraid to risk his chance
by making a stand. To have a wife with money, a silly, sweet temper and no will of her own,
was of course better than to be penniless, head over heels in debt and hemmed in by difficulties
on every side. He had seen women trained to give in to anything rather than be bullied in public,
to accede in the end to any demand rather than endure the shame of a certain kind of scene
made before servants, and a certain kind of insolence used to relatives and guests. The quality
he found most maddeningly irritating in Rosalie was her obviously absolute unconsciousness
of the fact that it was entirely natural and proper that her resources should be in her husband's
hands. He had, indeed, even in these early days, made a tentative effort or so in the form
of a suggestive speech; he had given her openings to give him an opening to put things on a
practical basis, but she had never had the intelligence to see what he was aiming at, and he
had found himself almost floundering ungracefully in his remarks, while she had looked at him
without a sign of comprehension in her simple, anxious blue eyes. The creature was actually
trying to understand him and could not. That was the worst of it, the blank wall of her unconsciousness,
her childlike belief that he was far too grand a personage to require anything. These were
the things he was thinking over when he walked up and down the deck in unamiable solitariness.
Rosy awakened to the amazed consciousness of the fact that, instead of being pleased with the
luxury and prettiness of her wardrobe and appointments, he seemed to dislike and disdain them.

"You American women change your clothes too much and think too much of them," was one of his
first amiable criticisms. "You spend more than well-bred women should spend on mere dresses
and bonnets. In New York it always strikes an Englishman that the women look endimanche at
whatever time of day you come across them."

"Oh, Nigel!" cried Rosy woefully. She could not think of anything more to say than, "Oh, Nigel!"

"I am sorry to say it is true," he replied loftily. That she was an American and a New Yorker
was being impressed upon poor little Lady Anstruthers in a new way--somehow as if the mere
cold statement of the fact put a fine edge of sarcasm to any remark. She was of too innocent
a loyalty to wish that she was neither the one nor the other, but she did wish that Nigel was
not so prejudiced against the places and people she cared for so much.

She was sitting in her stateroom enfolded in a dressing gown covered with cascades of lace,
tied with knots of embroidered ribbon, and her maid, Hannah, who admired her greatly, was brushing
her fair long hair with a gold-backed brush, ornamented with a monogram of jewels.

If she had been a French duchess of a piquant type, or an English one with an aquiline nose,
she would have been beyond criticism; if she had been a plump, over-fed woman, or an ugly,
ill-natured, gross one, she would have looked vulgar, but she was a little, thin, fair New
Yorker, and though she was not beyond criticism--if one demanded high distinction--she was
pretty and nice to look at. But Nigel Anstruthers would not allow this to her. His own tailors'
bills being far in arrears and his pocket disgustingly empty, the sight of her ingenuous sumptuousness
and the gay, accustomed simpleness of outlook with which she accepted it as her natural right,
irritated him and roused his venom. Bills would remain unpaid if she was permitted to spend
her money on this sort of thing without any consideration for the requirements of other people.

He inhaled the air and made a gesture of distaste.

"This sachet business is rather overpowering," he said. "It is the sort of thing a woman should
be particularly discreet about."

"Oh, Nigel!" cried the poor girl agitatedly. "Hannah, do go and call the steward to open the
windows. Is it really strong?" she implored as Hannah went out. "How dreadful. It's only orris
and I didn't know Hannah had put it in the trunks." Do you have a novitiate
in the convent can go whenever you want ...

Obdulia again cover her face with her hands and sobbed:

- Not that ... It is one thing worse ... I have a secret father a
secret that hurts my heart long ago and I drown ...

Fr Gil was briefly
suspended, and said at last:

- If you wish, go to church and hear
confession.

- No, no ... You can no longer be my confessor - and
suddenly raising the forehead, pale cheeks, eyes dry and bright, which
was painted an extreme resolution, continued: - Be well, father, my
whole life is meant to mourn ... I also know that after this life
I expected maybe an eternity of torment.

But despair has no torment nor fears anything. Simply a thought.

Everything else is wiped out ... I have cheated you, Father. I do not want or I can be the wife
of Jesus Christ, because it would be untrue to my oath. I have within the soul, there in the corner
hidden and sacred, a love which will be true all life. This love is my delight and my torment.
Two years ago I live dying a death sweet, because I love my own suffering ... Two years ago I
cry in silence, but my tears are sweet and drink with pleasure. Unknowingly, a parent, you have been
poisoning me slowly, but, far from hating him, love him, love him with all my soul ... I have tried start
of my soul this love that consumes me, I've beaten my chest, I tortured my flesh ... You well
know, father ... Then I convinced that it was useless, and I stopped blooming in my heart. God's
will be done. I know I'm doomed, but I love you ... I love you! I love you more than my salvation
... Take me where you please, but do not separate me you ... Let me be your servant ... Let me
kiss the ground you walk ...

Fell to his knees in front of his counselor, his face in his hands. Al through his fingers thin you
could see the bright lipstick that was covered.

Fr Gil stood up strongly, deathly pale, with eyes painted on terror.

His lips trembled to fulminate undoubtedly harsh sentence, but did not say it. Launched quickly
to the door and went for it.

Left home without realizing what he did. Walked aimlessly through the streets a long time in a state
of numbness that prevented him from reasoning about what just happened.

Went out the field and took a long walk. Physical exhaustion was his usual sedative effect and
began to see clearly the situation. Gained nothing by it. What was happening was very serious,
a catastrophe. His forebodings were realized. How to re Peñascosa with the girl? How do you
leave it abandoned? All solutions that came to mind seemed equally committed. He thought of telegraphing
to the father, but it was not possible to explain in a telegram what happened, not even words
could do it with dignity. Besides, who knows than it would be able to see this mad if harassed!
A lively irritation was seized peaceful soul of the priest. Had long believed not to the exalted
blessed and now loathed.

When he returned home it was night. She locked herself in her room without asking for his mate,
and continued to meditate with feverish impatience on the same subject.

The solution seemed less bad, having taken and discarded many, was presented to the bishop of
the diocese and entrust the whole thing and ask his advice and orders to get by.

- Monsieur le Cure, the lady who has sent me to tell you that you
please pass for your room.

Fr Gil lifted his head, embarrassed and confused as if I had to repent of something, responded
to the hostess:

- Miss? ... Ah! Well ... Here I go away.

But did not move the site. That call was further increased his irritation. Was determined to
never see her again while the prelate did not intervene in a matter
that could so seriously to compromise.

No deviation about an hour. After that time he presented again patron, all flustered.

- The lady has a stroke and is in bed unconscious. Come, come, Father!

- I, I! - Exclaimed frightened, and ran after her.

Indeed, Obdulia lay in bed, senseless, and strangely pale. Seemed dead. Fr Gil felt to see her
in this state a pang of remorse in the heart. He hurried to lavish
all the care when it happened.

Between the employer and he temples bathed with cold water, I did
smell some knobs which she brought in her hand bag.

It was not long open your eyes.

Spent some time with the serious look and fixed on the priest.

Then she smiled sweetly. The hostess quickly offered.

- Do you want us to call the doctor, Miss?

- No, no ... This is nothing ... Make me a cup of lime juice.

- Right now.

When they were alone, Bl long and looked back at him intently. After a weak voice said:

- Listen, father.

- What do you want, my daughter - said nodding toward her.

- Come you more ... I can not strain your voice.

Fr Gil leaned further.

Sudden, unexpected motion, she devoted extruded bare arms of the bed and threw them around
his neck, drew her face to it with unusual strength and kissed her long, wild, lips, and then another
and another. The priest struggled in vain to free herself. Those arms are clasped as if they were
of iron, and tag running around burning kisses his face relentlessly. There was no sound in the
room more the gentle sound they produced and the two breasts panting breath.

Finally, the priest, with a supreme effort, broke away. The young
man fell heavily on the bed.

He just felt more shock, disgust and horror that, after hesitating
few moments, lost consciousness and collapsed on the pavement.

Seeing him fall, the young man rose quickly out of bed and went to
his assistance caring.

But to set foot on the floor, his weak nature, deeply disturbed by what he had happen and by the sight
of her confessor lying on the ground, and also lacked fell prey syncope.

P.

The Gil was a passenger fainted. It took a few seconds to himself. Sat up in the ground, and
seeing Obdulia lying beside him in shirt and discovered a body part,
felt a strong shudder of shame and rose as if moved by a spring.

Thinking with horror that he could get the love at the time, raced to the young among to transport
arms to the bed. When he was suspended for half a yard of soil, he felt noise at the door. He
turned his head in terror, and a gasp escaped embarrassment his throat. At the door were Osuna,
D. Martín de las Casas and D. Peregrin Casanova.

- I dropped the lovebirds! - Shouted D. Martin stentorian voice.

Fr Gil dropped back to the girl and stepped back, watching them with eyes of fear.

- What is this? ... What happens? My daughter!

... My God - claimed Osuna, hurrying to recognize it.

- Listen, dirty bastard, earless! - Uttered D. Peregrin, going to
the toilet .-- What situation is that to a priest?

Did not you drop their heads in shame?

D. Martín de las Casas grabbed his left hand arm, and pushing against wall, he threw his voice
Campanula, while brandishing the stick:

- Granujota, indecent!

In good place you left you took the dust! Miserable worm, should crush and cast after a wreck on
the street to be eaten dogs!

Should nail you by the ears to the wall and expose to public embarrassment ... At least it should break
your ribs with this stick, and they're giving me feel like it!

It would be difficult, nay, it would almost certainly satisfy this energetic invalid occasion,
as in many others, his greed for bruise to his fellows, if not except that at this point he
brought the hostess.

- What are you doing, sir? Mistreating a priest! ... In my house there will be such scandal
...

Spare a bit of surprise Fr Gil, then said firmly:

- Gentlemen, this young man passed out while coming to help me for having fallen. The I went
with here, to beg you, because you want to enter a convent and devote
themselves to God, which opposes his father for no reason or right
and for that brutally abuses her ...

- I mistreat my daughter, villain!
- Shouted at the height of the outrage the hunchback, who had Obdulia
transporting got into bed and was about to throw water on the face
lies .-- and lies you say so.

I did not even know he wanted to join a convent ... or I would have opposed it.

Fr Gil was stunned, unable to utter a word, because the accent denoting
Osuna sincerity.

- I believe that what is appropriate in this case
- said D. Peregrin with his shrill voice, administrative, - is knowledge
of the fact immediately to the civil authority ... To me it made me
a father was governor of Tarragona ...

- Let you in Tarragona, D.
Peregrin! - Interrupted Mr. de las Casas .-- Here's what should meet
this girl is ... You, Madam, do you know to do to himself.

You, D. Peregrin, who knows the people, go find a doctor ... And
you, Don Gil the love ... to hell if you like.

- To say that I abuse
my daughter, because she wants to become a nun! - Kept exclaiming
at under Osuna, while helping the hostess .-- Canalla, rather than
rogue!

- Mr Osuna, you excuse me ... I think so - said the priest.

-
Well, well.

Already fix this issue in Peñascosa - uttered D. Martin with his energy property .-- Now, over
here! ... Long!

Fr Gil went to the door, but when I was about to transpose, D. Martin shouted as if you were
in front of a battalion: Stop!

- Friend Osuna - he said, addressing the hunchback, - you would have inferred a serious offense
and you is not a decent if not now gives a slap to the individual
who has offended (pointing for P. Gil).

There was awkward silence. Osuna's countenance expressed uneasiness and hesitation.

- Nothing, nothing - followed by the fierce invalid in his voice resonant theatrical beard -
you are not man of honor, you have no hint of shame if corrective leaves the offense.

Osuna still hesitated a moment, cast a look of mercy to the invalid, but seeing his face ghastly,
it was decided at last. Alzose on the toes and discharged a resounding slap on the cheek of
the priest.

- Jesus! - Said the landlady .-- This is an iniquity!

Fr Gil was densely pale, loomed two tears in his eyes, but made no move one to throw on her attacker.

XIII

Thanks
to the resolve of Obdulia, the matter was not brought to court. From the first time admitted
that he and solely responsible for the leak: the toilet no fault it had, only had assigned to
accompany her after incessant requests and using of the scheme from abuse at home. D. Peregrin
Casanova, no doubt wishing to demonstrate no grudge against any of Osuna on the scene lighting,
continued to believe that was instructed gubernatorial record. Long ago they were reconciled. In
Peñascosa individuals is publicly revile are called rogue, miserable, ETC. etc., and eight
days, they were again seen together over coffee. But this is not unique of rocks. The same applies
Sarrió and Nieva. Otherwise, how could life distinguished in these villages?

Against the advice of D. Peregrin were all sensible people in the population. A by affects the toilet,
others timorous, some because they saw no reason to make a fuss, Osuna almost all advised they
were staying. However, the enemies that the toilet had, better say, the envious, curled terribly.
They refused to assent to version of the maiden. They felt it was a hoax forged by her to save, and
if did not believe, at least expressed it, lowering his voice and grinning. It I covered it with
sarcasm, like the priest that her daughter's confession, and were run the villa thousand more
or less ingenious pleasantry about his trip. It is easy to guess that who else worked on this
propaganda, but a sly way, was the P. Narciso. No chaplain was enough to be humiliated Sarrió ripping
off his rival by Coadjutor belonged to him in justice. I wanted to conclude it all costs, pulverized,
not more hear his name on the lips of the pious women of rocks.

It seemed the occasion of pearls for it. So he went spontaneously Osuna, asking if you did not
think going to court. When he learned that this could not be assumed because Obdulia all responsibility
and claimed to have cheated on his confessor, experienced grief. Such was his desire to exterminate
P. Gil, who was already a long time but that their relationships with it were strained, and even
open hostility can be said, he ventured that far. Three or four days after returning to Peñascosa
saw one morning in church. He sent a message by an altar boy who wanted to talk to her and
waited in the sacristy. It was beyond the young, though very bad wins. The curate was made of
honey treated her with extreme affection brilliantly handled the censer, knowing how sensitive
he was alive and his love own. When he thought having it soft, I did this with great circumlocution
that he, as pastor coadjutor, had a duty to ensure the honor of all his parishioners, that it
was walking in the mouths of people a few days ago, and this weighed on the soul by the particular
affection that the professed. We weighed all the more as he was sure there was no reason given
for it. He knew his generous character, his noble spirit, so I was convinced that On this occasion,
as in many others, sacrificed for others. However, this sacrifice was inadmissible, could be regarded
as a sin. The honor is not ours, is a repository God trusts us and that we have an obligation
to defend. Moreover, no disgrace was only for herself but also for his elderly father. The poor
are seen because of this nicknamed sacrifice and whispered in the
village.

Even more, though that turned a good trait generosity, she and he, who were members of the Church,
had a duty to report the ecclesiastical authority of any priest who act unreasonably in exercising
its ministry, so it receives the fraternal condign punishment and prevent fees. This it was
in good faith. She, as good Christian, was not to allow mock God's justice. He understood perfectly
that it would be painful to testify against her confessor; but it was a bigger sacrifice than
being carried out, and God will surely appreciate. Furthermore, it should be noted that when
reporting to his confessor caused him no harm; the Otherwise, the punishment of the Church
is seen as an asset, as a just expiation, when accompanied by repentance, sin and redeems us
from the pains of hell.

D. Poor Narcissus ignored, despite having tried for so long, who they existed. Before he had
uttered a word, Obdulia knew what was going to say and how more or less, you know like turning
life into your brain. That ability monkish made platitudes crashed
into the vivid imagination, the subtle wit and insight of the young
saint.

Answered in the same tone persuasive, smooth, the cleric was adopted. Nothing could accuse P. Gil,
who was a saint, an exceptional human being illustration served as
a beacon in the parish from which it said had arrived, and whose modesty,
selflessness and piety could serve as an example and encouragement
to his teammates.

But but had reason to accuse him, he would refrain from doing very well, knowing that the
scandal would use primarily the enemies of religion. The lack of a woman when single leads only
to her detriment. That of a priest, into disrepute class and thus undermining the Catholic
religion. Several other considerations added, and including more than a sentence double acute intention
known to the new coadjutor burnt horn.

- Well, goodbye, D. Narciso, and excuse me if I could not fully understand her charity. I am
a wretched woman and do not understand theology.

Fr Narciso was grinning like a rabbit. Displaying closed this route, came resolutely the other
no less tortuous. Same D. Joaquin chaplain and Mrs. Butler Barrado that P. Melchior, the young
born enemies toilet, vomiting venom against him, as logical. But there were other Peñascosa
few clerics who had always been fair.

In trying to attract them paint them the set from another point of view, ensuring that had
reason to know secrets. The trip was a real abduction thwarted. The girl was sacrificed. Long
ago he, D. Narciso, was suspicious of what would happen. The toilet had conceived an unholy
passion. The escape was agreed had been three months, and so on., etc. I filled the head wind.
The position he occupied as pastor, in fact if not law, greatly facilitated this attraction.
It was agreed between the majority almost all of the chaplains of the villa, the excuse was
a little boy with no weight or formality, which had disgraced the priestly class and God knows where
it would stop if the bishop did not take action on the matter.

Since then half forgave all of them show their contempt. Nothing pleases both human nature to
despise. Began to greet him coldly, then head back, then no answer. When I walked into the
sacristy, if there was other priests, noted that away from him and formed a separate group. If
I went to clothe to say Mass, was the day most of the clothes cupboard closed: I had to wait until
D. Narcissus came to ask the key. Be dispensed with him in the office when it was possible:
not invited them celebrating Gaudeamus. Finally, harassed him all the ways and manners that
were offered. And there were no longer enough.

Fr Gil was more surprised than angry that contempt. Seeing that his colleagues dispensed him,
they dispensed with without much regret. Just spoke with Fr And Norberto D. Miguel. The old
priest, who had been deprived of the leadership of fact remained,
however, with determination their right, invented a thousand traces
to prove the neighborhood. He and D. Daffodil enemy was a deep, fierce.
But he was afraid. The former leader of the hosts Carlist was capable,
if irritated him a little, beaten in the same church. Don Miguel succeeded
by terror. Fr Narciso affected to despise, but always behind them.
Before he was treated with extreme consideration, and suffered with
patience dashes that Occasionally he let go. And when it happened
to the young priest, preaching to the faithful at the offertory of
the Mass, saying: "We pastors have a duty, etc., 'D. Miguel, from
his corner where he heard mass, uttering loud enough to hear him that
around him, "Pastor I! I only know what you did," was his response. "You American women
are too fond of cutting in. An Englishman can think for himself without his wife's assistance."

The tears rose to her eyes. The introduction of the international question overpowered her
as always.

"Don't begin to be hysterical," was the ameliorating tenderness with which he observed the
two hot salt drops which fell despite her. "I should scarcely wish to present you to my mother
bathed in tears."

She wiped the salt drops hastily away and sat for a moment silent in the corner of the carriage.
Being wholly primitive and unanalytical, she was ashamed and began to blame herself. He was
right. She must not be silly because she was unused to things. She ought not to be disturbed
by trifles. She must try to be nice and look cheerful. She made an effort and did no speak
for a few minutes. When she had recovered herself she tried again.

"English country is so pretty," she said, when she thought she was quite sure that her voice
would not tremble. "I do so like the hedges and the darling little red-roofed cottages."

It was an innocent tentative at saying something agreeable which might propitiate him. She
was beginning to realise that she was continually making efforts to propitiate him. But one
of the forms of unpleasantness most enjoyable to him was the snubbing of any gentle effort
at palliating his mood. He condescended in this case no response whatever, but merely continued
staring contemptuously before him.

"It is so picturesque, and so unlike America," was the pathetic little commonplace she ventured
next. "Ain't it, Nigel?"

He turned his head slowly towards her, as if she had taken a new liberty in disturbing his
meditations.

"Wha--at?" he drawled.

It was almost too much for her to sustain herself under. Her courage collapsed.

"I was only saying how pretty the cottages were," she faltered. "And that there's nothing like
this in America."

"You ended your remark by adding, 'ain't it,'" her husband condescended. "There is nothing
like that in England. I shall ask you to do me the favour of leaving Americanisms out of your
conversation when you are in the society of English ladies and gentlemen. It won't do."

"I didn't know I said it," Rosy answered feebly.

"That is the difficulty," was his response. "You never know, but educated people do."

There was nothing more to be said, at least for a girl who had never known what it was to be
bullied. This one felt like a beggar or a scullery maid, who, being rated by her master, had
not the refuge of being able to "give warning." She could never give warning. The Atlantic
Ocean was between her and those who had loved and protected her all her short life, and the
carriage was bearing her onwards to the home in which she was to live alone as this man's companion
to the end of her existence.

She made no further propitiatory efforts, but sat and stared in simple blankness at the country,
which seemed to increase in loveliness at each new point of view. Sometimes she saw sweet wooded,
rolling lands made lovelier by the homely farmhouses and cottages enclosed and sheltered by
thick hedges and trees; once or twice they drove past a park enfolding a great house guarded
by its huge sentinel oaks and beeches; once the carriage passed through an adorable little
village, where children played on the green and a square-towered grey church seemed to watch
over the steep-roofed cottages and creeper-covered vicarage. If she had been a happy American
tourist travelling in company with impressionable friends, she would have broken into ecstatic
little exclamations of admiration every five minutes, but it had been driven home to her that
to her present companion, to whom nothing was new, her rapture would merely represent the crudeness
which had existed in contentment in a brown-stone house on a noisy thoroughfare, through a
life which had been passed tramping up and down numbered streets and avenues.

They approached at last a second village with a green, a grass-grown street and the irregular
red-tiled cottages, which to the unaccustomed eye seemed rather to represent studies for sketches
than absolute realities. The bells in the church tower broke forth into a chime and people
appeared at the doors of the cottages. The men touched their foreheads as the carriage passed,
and the children made bobbing curtsies. Sir Nigel condescended to straighten himself a trifle
in his seat, and recognised the greetings with the stiff, half-military salute. The poor girl
at his side felt that he put as little feeling as possible into the movement, and that if she
herself had been a bowing villager she would almost have preferred to be wholly ignored. She
looked at him questioningly.

"Are they--must I?" she began.

"Make some civil recognition," answered Sir Nigel, as if he were instructing an ignorant child.
"It is customary."

So she bowed and tried to smile, and the joyous clamour of the bells brought the awful lump
into her throat again. It reminded her of the ringing of the chimes at the New York church
on that day of her marriage, which had been so full of gay, luxurious bustle, so crowded with
wedding presents, and flowers, and warm-hearted, affectionate congratulations, and good wishes
uttered in merry American voices.

The park at Stornham Court was large and beautiful and old. The trees were magnificent, and
the broad sweep of sward and rich dip of ferny dell all that the imagination could desire.
The Court itself was old, and many-gabled and mellow-red and fine. Rosalie had learned from
no precedent as yet that houses of its kind may represent the apotheosis of discomfort and
dilapidation within, and only become more beautiful without. Tumbled-down chimneys and broken
tiles, being clambered over by tossing ivy, are pictures to delight the soul.

As she descended from the carriage the girl was tremulous and uncertain of herself and much
overpowered by the unbending air of the man-servant who received her as if she were a parcel
in which it was no part of his duty to take the smallest interest. As she mounted the stone
steps she caught a glimpse of broad gloom within the threshold, a big, square, dingy hall where
some other servants were drawn up in a row. She had read of something of the sort in English
novels, and she was suddenly embarrassed afresh by her realisation of the fact that she did
not know what to do and that if she made a mistake Nigel would never forgive her.

An elderly woman came out of a room opening into the hall. She was an ugly woman of a rigid
carriage, which, with the obvious intention of being severely majestic, was only antagonistic.
She had a flaccid chin, and was curiously like Nigel. She had also his expression when he intended
to be disagreeable. She was the Dowager Lady Anstruthers, and being an entirely revolting old
person at her best, she objected extremely to the transatlantic bride who had made her a dowager,
though she was determinedly prepared to profit by any practical benefit likely to accrue.

"Well, Nigel," she said in a deep voice. "Here you are at last."

This was of course a statement not to be refuted. She held out a leathern cheek, and as Sir
Nigel also presented his, their caress of greeting was a singular and not effusive one.

"Is this your wife?" she asked, giving Rosalie a bony hand. And as he did not indignantly deny
this to be the fact, she added, "How do you do?" 

In sum, not to tire my readers, I'll end by saying that Don finally picked Acisclo the reward
of his labors.

The elections came, and D. Acisclo won the election.

Congressman Don Jaime Pimentel left by a large majority.

Some want to imply that D. Acisclo did a thousand stage machinery and falsehoods, but nothing
could prove, and therefore should not believe.

Don Jaime Pimentel, without leaving the court, not just write a letter, with the highest calm,
was pleased to receive your certificate, almost clean, they only had two minor protests and ill-founded.

The
joy of D. Acisclo was great after the win. Lauro yours! Which shows of power that had just given!
With an invisible candidate, careless, lazy, with an enemy so strong, so unique, so as phoenix
pattern and the representatives of the people, had achieved win and win by a landslide. After
marveling at his own capacity for policy, only acknowledged debtor
D. Juan Fresco and abundant peat bermejinos that followed on the day
of the election as a respected leader.

Throughout this long election period, the friendly relations and Dona
Luz P. Enrique it was closing more every day.

To Dona Manolita, drifting of the enthusiasm of her husband, or share it, I never thought more than
in elections.

Doña Luz and father were certainly the only two people in a certain position in the whole district,
had not thought of this or the other candidate, and who had not toiled for victory any of them.

In the midst of political turmoil, had been found in the same withdrawal sweet home of those who
promoted, and there were talks soft and lofty, and pleasant conversations, you always learn something
Dona Luz, which was always new excellence in understanding and in
the heart of the father and the father, in turn, never failed to amaze
the clearance, sharpness, the remarkable discretion of poetic fantasy
and exquisite sensitivity its fine interlocutor.

Don Anselmo was third in the debates, although not as much, for having been too D. Acisclo very interested
in the election. And the priest Don Miguel had kept going to record to socialize, while Father's
wise dialogue and Dona Luz magnetized and enthralled him in such
a way, that within minutes of beginning to hear, he would stay asleep,
sometimes accompanied and animated with music and endless sound of
snoring.

It was from this that the only person who was really consistent and intelligent control of mutual
affection and intimate conversation of Mrs. Light and the Father, was Dona Manolita. I I do not
want to do this, or any of my heroes, better than they are or what they were. Doña Manolita
was not a dove without gall, and not because they hated someone, but because he kept have malice.
Rather, it could tick Dona Manolita have it. Rather it could be acknowledge that without envy
or bitterness, and just for the sake of art, like some gossip, and still too much, as a rule for his
judgments, that terrible sentence wrong and think be right. However, thanks to the loving devotion
that inspired him Dona Luz, she played always more benevolent side all his acts and speeches.
Therefore, although insight Dona Manolita long time could not hide that irresistible inclination
of two souls, Dona Manolita never failed to do justice to Dona Luz, and acknowledged and declared,
back in bottom of his chest, in her friend had not the slightest
intention of disrupting the mood Father's lure with flirting or blamed.

The

respect and affection of the doctor's daughter Fr Enrique were great too, but not both that any
failure would prevent something completely opposite of their behavior. Doña Manolita then,
without thinking that Dona Luz had given no occasion for it or why he began to suspect the Father,
more or less confused and vaguely, was in love. Respect for his friend and because in the
places people do not walk the ethereal subtleties or passed over still, and because to say something
she had given rise to be added much, Donna and her father Manolita entrusted with the results
of his observations. Entrusted only to Güeto Pepe, who was hiding anything; but demanding the
deepest secrecy.

The severity of the Father Dona Luz and cut flights to all the boldness of Dona Manolita who never
molested directing the Father, even as a joke and rodeos and circumlocution, indirect darker on
the passion that he imagined. Doña Manolita continued, however, watching. Pepe Güeto also
observed. Both spouses are then communicated what they had observed. Of Thus came the two to corroborate
the idea that the Father, perhaps without knowing it, loved Dona Luz by mystical and subtle
style, and that Dona Luz worship was left without assuming any disgusting term, without reflecting
on all the significance that this worship might have, and seeing in it more than a tender friendship,
friendly and impeccable, as she professed the convalescent and poetic
mission.

It happened in an incident that was not expected now. Suddenly, when D. Acisclo had resigned to
his deputy were invisible to the district, he immediately wrote him
telling him that came to visit.

The first town that was to be presented Villafría, whence horse, and the corresponding bubble,
was to pass to travel and visit other towns.

Don Acisclo was glad of this coming, which would give the greatest importance, but had to strive
to have good things to do D. Jaime Pimentel brilliant reception. To accommodate you with dignity
and even luxury, came to asking the best Dona Luz rooms of his ancestral
home, not occupied by his nephew, and to offer D. Jaime a good horse
to ride and go from village to village, also went to Dona Luz, asking
lent her beautiful black horse.

Luz had to agree to everything.

The day before they had to reach D. Jaime, everyone was abuzz in place with the great feast of
the reception would be. To Dona Manolita was more cheerful than usual and very talkative. In the
daily gatherings she attended only Dona Luz and the Father because
the rest were still busy with the preparations for the party, or relaxing
from the hustle that day.

Donna then had an occurrence Manolita something malicious, and that his feelings had to give much light
on their research. Why was not to tease Dona Luz, predicting that D. Jaime, who said fame wonderful
praise, and he was free and single, would love it, just to see her with the happy surprise of
finding in a small village as complete paragon of elegance, distinction and beauty? Why, to tease
and Dona Luz, with some the flatter, could not make a joke rather heavy covertly to the Father,
whose love, tangled and murky in the center of consciousness, it would clarify with the reagent jealousy?
Doña Manolita, after making a joke, I would look to the Father, to
see if they budge or remained impassive, seemingly at least.

As I said than done.

Manolita said Dona Dona Luz D. Jaime was going to fall in love with her, just saw her, that
D. Jaime did not suspect that in a place so cornered as Villafria much treasure was hidden, and
that, in his view, it was clear the future of D. Love Jaime.

- What stranger - he continued - not in love with you, who have come to Villafria young, free
and in a state of merit? Prepare, therefore, the syrup with you usually
tip the pumpkins, if you think also give to it.

But who knows? The suitor, which Columbro and is not rustic, or local, as you've had so far. They
say it the cream of the elegant Madrid, and also a brave soldier and a man of great future and extraordinary
talent. Will you be so fierce that also despise?

Doña Luz, without anger, but rather something flattered, responded by denying the validity of
the forecast, and ensuring, with a little mock modesty, that Don Jaime, accustomed to seeing
on the court so beautiful women, it would notice it or would ignore.

- In addition - "Dona Luz - no fear that I intend to that gentleman. I'm not what is called
a good game. For him it needs a rich heiress, to give wings to his ambition, and not a poor
girl that string and will serve as a burden and nuisance. Believe me, Manuela, and I've said
a thousand times, I never will marry me ... I do not want to marry.

Let's not talk nonsense, even in jest.

Doña Manolita during these sentences between her friend and she crossed, glanced Father and thought
he saw had been paler than usual.

Otherwise the Father remained silent and did not give their opinion
or possible crush on D. Jaime, no the constant aim of Dona Luz to
stay single.

At ten o'clock he retired to his home, and the two friends were left alone.

Dona Manolita then encouraged with how well his first joke was tolerated, and such Once grateful as
flattery, in the depths of the soul of the daughter of the Marquis,
was tempted venturing to make another joke a lot less light.

Without thinking much, he said, because, as follows:

- Ay! Daughter! I regret having said what's D. Jaime.

- Why do you regret? - Simply asked Dona Luz -. I do not think probable that courtly knight falls
in love with me, in three or four days you have to be here, but and even that is impossible, or
you are offended me, estimated at more than I deserve, I foretell such a triumph, you have to
do to repent, but for the fear of too exalted my pride.

- It's not that fear - said the doctor's daughter - which leads me to repentance, but fear of
having hurt a sensitive heart, of having made a deep wound.

- I do not understand - "Dona Luz -, what do you mean? What is this tender heart?

- The P. Enrique - said in an evil hour Mrs. Manolita.

Luz blushed scarlet. All the blood in his body would be turned up to head. All the pride of
caste was gathered and piled in his heart. Saw nothing but ridiculous indignant they believed
that the object of the passion of a friar. She believed that a friar could admired for their
talent, estimated by his virtues revered for its impeccable behavior, and taste their intercourse
and conversation, and pleased to be your friend, but seemed to fall in love so absurd, so contrary
to all the conveniences and social and religious laws, so monstrously ugly and shocking, I did
not want, or could, or should suspect it in person the trial, the
circumspection and even sanctity in the P. Enrique showed.

Luz looked for, as an evil villain and mean Manolita Dona thought
and expression as an insult of that thinking through the floor.

-
What you have just uttered - said in a voice stammering with rage
- is an insult, it a harsh accusation against Fr Henry and me.

Neither the father is delirious, and I have given occasion to rave. A clean so that my fame
is protected from slander, I've enclosed in this place, I have separated
almost everything humanely, I fled the youth, while I was young, be
so still, as I am, I have admitted my privacy but old sixty years
as your father, the priest, Don Acisclo, and none of this has earned
me.

For me, about thirty years I have left, I have trusted with pleasure, I declare frankly in friendship
honored servant of God, tested in a thousand hardships, broken by them, full of science and
virtue, not conceived this friendship, this treatment is not explained,
but vile and impure motives.

And there are the rustic place, not that I do not know, but my best friend and me I suspect injury.

Poor
Donna was terrified Manolita: is pricked, and after he burst into tears.

- But, my dear - he said -, do not get mad for love of God. I certainly have explained me wrong.
I I'm not saying that is impure the Father's love ....

- What nonsense are yours? - Interrupted Dona Luz -. What loss of ideas? What foolish distinctions
intend to do? How do you explain away the love of a brother to a girl honored? Such love is
always impure, is infamous, it is sacrilegious.

Viewing Dona Manolita there was no way to remedy his clumsiness, and have irritated apuradísima
both Dona Luz, whom he loved with all my heart, did not utter a single word, but cried and sobbed as
if he had come upon the most cruel misfortune.

Then Dona Luz, who had a good background, despite his pride, he felt he had been hard rough and too
much, and apologized to Mrs. Manolita, kissing and all but crying
too.

The two friends came to get a result much more friendly than before. Luz was convinced Dona Manolita
that he had not intended to tarnish in the least purity friendly
relations with the P. Henry, and Mrs. Manolita made by convincing
and even convinced by the time that P. Henry, even as Dante loved
Beatrice, like Petrarch Laura loved, or loved Dulcinea Don Quixote,
was able to doña Luz love, because, being him a monk and she a highly
educated lady and honestísima, such love, convoluted, spiritual and
incorporeal as it was, had a something unseemly and grotesque commoner
the sinful condition of your beautiful and superb fitted very bad
friend.

No well-finished to make peace, came Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo who did not notice last traces of
the storm.

They dined in the four friendly company, and with good appetite,
and then went to sleep.

The next day was celebrated with pomp and din the triumphal entry of D. Jaime in Villafría.
Few had horses, and not a few who had only mule or donkey, went at dawn to greet at the station,
with D. Acisclo the front, and about eleven o'clock they all returned to the deputy, Knight him
in the beautiful black horse Dona Luz.

At the gates of the place came the boys and men on foot to receive the ride lucida, and they
all went through the streets to the sound of the bells that were cast in flight between live
and cheers, and thunderous shot from air guns were serviceable in many Villafría.

-XIII-

Crisis

Having rejected as cruel despondency Manolita Dona words and then
of made peace, Dona Luz thought to their own in the value and purpose
of those words; and, as if a strange new light illuminate the darkest
labyrinths of his brain, thought he heard the whole truth and acknowledged
that his friend had some show of reason to say he said.

Luz was angry perhaps because his own conscience, taking advantage of the words Dona Manolita had
entered a more severe charge. What difference is radical and important is between the tender and
exclusive friendship between the most marked predilection a man for a woman and a woman by
a man, neither old yet, and love purest, most sublime Platonic? Luz itself is put this matter, and
not conceive resolve but in the sense that no difference occurs, or, if given, only is obvious and
subtle cigar breaks, I decided it was not absurd or insolence to
assume and claim that she was in love with Fr Enrique.

Father, chained by respect, taking into account their state, their votes and positions, he had
kept well to state their love in a way that would make even remotely suspect that it was not legitimate
and unblemished; but certainly in the bottom of his soul he felt.

Dona Luz after leaving this as sitting and obvious, he asked again: "What about me I done to inspire
this passion? What acquire fault that he loves me? To what extent have given and continue
to give fuel to his affection? ". The answer was that Dona Luz was contradictory and confusing.
Ora was condemned, now is absolved. Was condemned to recognize that she had concealed much less
than the complacency with which he heard him, the glad sight caused him, the delight in his
conversation he always brought, and she instinctively reckless, but depraved, liked to look
beautiful and elegant at all, and particularly people who wanted among which could not fail to
include the Father.

Another set of considerations came into his mind then to acquit her. Why, do not lawful love
science, virtue and wit that sparkled in the Father? What wrong had to show it? And as for care
in the adornment of her person, what divine or human law could impose the obligation to conceal
the clothes that heaven had given him and not show them off to where this is consistent with
the most rigid decorum? Thus Dona Luz was acquitted, but continuing in thought, he added in
his thinking: "If I guess he loves me, why not must suppose him that I love? If I have no
reason to suppose, if my vanity who it is, well can he be so vain as me and guess the same way. And
if I guess with "the reason why I have given to make the same assumption is less chance?".
Luz then had to confess that, having regard to the natural reserve
that should have women, and the modesty and timidity should ensure
that mitigate the movements and inclinations heart, she had more reason
to the Father so that he believed that love that he had given her
for on his part, believe.

The proverb says that whoever proves much proves nothing, and this
occurred not well Dona Luz showed that not only the Father was in
love with her, but she was in love Fr.

Examined the soul, the heart was questioned, and as he answered that they did not love Father,
again believe that the presumption could only imagine that the Father do love her to it. All that,
after so many detours, drew Dona Luz was clear at that loving and
living and privacy in those conversations so wise of her to him was
led to some perverse interpretations, some tacky, some pedantic and
local at a time, that seemed funny, and ridiculous as thinking that
was attenuated only his life could not take place unless foolish error.

Luz

decided, therefore, be more cautious and less expansive in the future, not often both philosophical
and theological discussions, and trusts and dealing with the venerable nephew the former manager
of his home.

"If there is - she concluded - and dangerous mutual inclination in
our souls, could be expected, and this offended me, and if so, as
the inclination would be abhorrent in every way, it root cutting.

"

In either event, Dona Luz recognized the need for change of behavior, the convenience, availing
of a Spanish phrase, somewhat dated, but graphic, put your neglect in repair.

The arrival of the triumphant and newly Villafría MP D. Jaime Pimentel and coincided Moncada almost
to the prudent, if somewhat belated resolution.

Doña Luz, accompanied by her friend benign, was on a low window, waiting for the appearance
the pomp and triumph, which was foreshadowed by the ringing of the
dead and alive.

Don Jaime, riding through D. Pepe Güeto Acisclo and preceded by a
mob of boys and men on foot, and followed by a good crowd of people
on horseback and even more people walking, was after all in the eyes
of our heroine.

Fame had not lied. Was D. Jaime all a gallant gentleman. He rode with grace and determination.
Although he was nearly forty years, it seemed that he was only thirty. Her simple dress left
see in details all the elegance and good taste.

The cavalcade stopped at the door D. Acisclo, and this, followed by his godson and guest, soon found
in the room, where waiting and Dona Dona Luz Manolita.

- Here is V. our MEP Mr D. Jaime - said D. Acisclo, presenting Dona Luz -; and then he said to D.
Jaime:

- Miss Dona Luz, daughter of the late Marquis of Villafría.

The distant memory and confusion of Madrid's high society that Dona Luz had only interviews for more
than twelve years, the vague idea of ​​a more educated and aristocratic,
the forms and be dreamed of ladies and gallants, their uses, discreteos,
adventure and romance, such which she had fantasized or discerned,
without seeing or enjoy, bound, the dawn of life, to retire to a small
town, everything suddenly came to mind Dona Luz, looking at D. Jaime
Pimentel, noting the ease and naturalness of his distinguished manners,
and to hear his accent and the few and sensible words addressed to
you, which neither sinned of cold and dry, or end by the gallant,
but are locked within more respectful of discretion.

Because there was less Dona Luz who felt that he was speaking, nor the insolent courtier either,
which reveals the superiority through their feigned politeness, but the man of the same class
as her, speaking as an equal, but with the attentions than a leading lady should be provided.
Luz understood this, was pleased about it, and thanked him for everything.

Harto said different tone he used Don Jaime, speaking with Dona Manolita, no sooner had she too.

Two
days were D. Jaime in Villafría, after which it was necessary to continue the started task of visiting
all parts of the district.

During these two days, D. Acisclo deployed the most prodigious magnificence.

Had, so to speak and table of state. All her relatives, the doctor, his daughter and her husband,
and the priest D. Miguel, lunch, ate and even had dinner with him
and Pacino D. Jaime.

He always sat right of Doña Luz, Doña Manolita always had the other side.

Petra, the housekeeper, performed miracles in those two days.

What stuffed turkeys, which cooked with sausage, chorizo, sausage and morcones, what tortillas with
green asparagus, which platazos the fricassee, which stews thistles, Morrill and peas, ham
and eggs which yarn what maimones cakes, and what delicious alboronía, salmorejos spicy, fresh
gazpacho and salads, and various syrup and syrup, not flavored or
presented in the table of his master?

The five best musicians in
the place came at night with its sonorous chords and instruments,
and danced at the high block, because the floor was as sanctified
by the sacrament.

Don Jaime and Dona Manolita quadrille danced with
one of the daughters of D. Acisclo and Dona Light not only quadrille
danced, but also the waltz.

Dona Luz was very fine and friendly,
and the Dona Luz was also with him. 

Urban jokes, the anecdotillas
spicy, without bordering on free paintings intrigue and sets of Madrid,
in relation with lightness and delicacy by Don Jaime, had a great
time to Dona Light and made her laugh, something that pleased him
and stunned, because it was easy to laugh. Always that the conversation
was general, the said D. Jaime loved the audience, and everyone applauded.
 P'r'aps it's the Lord's 'and, as you say, ma'am, but we've been decent people an'
never missed church when we could 'elp it--father didn't deserve it--that he didn't."

She was heartbroken in her downtrodden hopelessness. Rosalie literally quaked with sympathy.
She poured forth her pity in such words as the poor woman had never heard spoken by a great
lady to a humble creature like herself. The villagers found the new Lady Anstruthers' interviews
with them curiously simple and suggestive of an equality they could not understand. Stornham
was a conservative old village, where the distinction between the gentry and the peasants was
clearly marked. The cottagers were puzzled by Sir Nigel's wife, but they decided that she was
kind, if unusual.

As Rosalie talked to the farmer's wife she longed for her father's presence. She had remembered
a time when a man in his employ had lost his all by fire, the small house he had just made
his last payment upon having been burned to the ground. He had lost one of his children in
the fire, and the details had been heartrending. The entire Vanderpoel household had wept on
hearing them, and Mr. Vanderpoel had drawn a cheque which had seemed like a fortune to the
sufferer. A new house had been bought, and Mrs. Vanderpoel and her daughters and friends had
bestowed furniture and clothing enough to make the family comfortable to the verge of luxury.

"See, you poor thing," said Rosalie, glowing with memories of this incident, her homesick young
soul comforted by the mere likeness in the two calamities. "I brought my cheque book with me
because I meant to help you. A man worked for my father had his house burned, just as yours
was, and my father made everything all right for him again. I'll make it all right for you;
I'll make you a cheque for a hundred pounds now, and then when your husband begins to build
I'll give him some more."

The woman gasped for breath and turned pale. She was frightened. It really seemed as if her
ladyship must have lost her wits a little. She could not mean this. The vicaress turned pale also.

"Lady Anstruthers," she said, "Lady Anstruthers, it--it is too much. Sir Nigel----"

"Too much!" exclaimed Rosalie. "They have lost everything, you know; their hayricks and cattle
as well as their house; I guess it won't be half enough."

Mrs. Brent dragged her into the vicar's study and talked to her. She tried to explain that
in English villages such things were not done in a manner so casual, as if they were the mere
result of unconsidered feeling, as if they were quite natural things, such as any human person
might do. When Rosalie cried: "But why not--why not? They ought to be." Mrs. Brent could not
seem to make herself quite clear. Rosalie only gathered in a bewildered way that there ought
to be more ceremony, more deliberation, more holding off, before a person of rank indulged
in such munificence. The recipient ought to be made to feel it more, to understand fully what
a great thing was being done.

"They will think you will do anything for them."

"So I will," said young Lady Anstruthers, "if I have the money when they are in such awful
trouble. Suppose we lost everything in the world and there were people who could easily help
us and wouldn't?"

"You and Sir Nigel--that is quite different," said Mrs. Brent. "I am afraid that if you do
not discuss the matter and ask advice from your husband and mother-in-law they will be very
much offended."

"If I were doing it with their money they would have the right to be," replied Rosalie, with
entire ingenuousness. "I wouldn't presume to do such a thing as that. That wouldn't be right,
of course."

"They will be angry with me," said the vicaress awkwardly. This queer, silly girl, who seemed
to see nothing in the right light, frequently made her feel awkward. Mrs. Brent told her husband
that she appeared to have no sense of dignity or proper appreciation of her position.

The wife of the farmer, John Wilson, carried away the cheque, quite stunned. She was breathless
with amazement and turned rather faint with excitement, bewilderment and her sense of relief.
She had to sit down in the vicarage kitchen for a few minutes and drink a glass of the thin
vicarage beer.

Rosalie promised that she would discuss the matter and ask advice when she returned to the
Court. Just as she left the house Mrs. Brent suddenly remembered something she had forgotten.

"The Wilson trouble completely drove it out of my mind," she said. "It was a stupid mistake
of the postboy's. He left a letter of yours among mine when he came this morning. It was most
careless. I shall speak to his father about it. It might have been important that you should
receive it early."

When she saw the letter Rosalie uttered an exclamation. It was addressed in her father's handwriting.

"Oh!" she cried. "It's from father! And the postmark is Havre. What does it mean?"

She was so excited that she almost forgot to express her thanks. Her heart leaped up in her
throat. Could they have come over from America--could they? Why was it written from Havre?
Could they be near her?

She walked along the road choked with ecstatic, laughing sobs. Her hand shook so that she could
scarcely tear open the envelope; she tore a corner of the letter, and when the sheet was spread
open her eyes were full of wild, delighted tears, which made it impossible for her to see for
the moment. But she swept the tears away and read this:

DEAR DAUGHTER:

It seems as if we had had pretty bad luck in not seeing you. We had counted on it very much,
and your mother feels it all the more because she is weak after her illness. We don't quite
understand why you did not seem to know about her having had diphtheria in Paris. You did not
answer Betty's letter. Perhaps it missed you in some way. Things do sometimes go wrong in the
mail, and several times your mother has thought a letter has been lost. She thought so because
you seemed to forget to refer to things. We came over to leave Betty at a French school and
we had expected to visit you later. But your mother fell ill of diphtheria and not hearing
from you seemed to make her homesick, so we decided to return to New York by the next steamer.
I ran over to London, however, to make some inquiries about you, and on the first day I arrived
I met your husband in Bond Street. He at once explained to me that you had gone to a house
party at some castle in Scotland, and said you were well and enjoying yourself very much, and
he was on his way to join you. I am sorry, daughter, that it has turned out that we could not
see each other. It seems a long time since you left us. But I am very glad, however, that you
are so well and really like English life. If we had time for it I am sure it would be delightful.
Your mother sends her love and wants very much to hear of all you are doing and enjoying. Hoping
that we may have better luck the next time we cross--

Your affectionate father,

REUBEN L. VANDERPOEL.

Rosalie found herself running breathlessly up the avenue. She was clutching the letter still
in her hand, and staggering from side to side. Now and then she uttered horrible little short
cries, like an animal's. She ran and ran, seeing nothing, and now and then with the clenched
hand in which the letter was crushed striking a sharp blow at her breast.

She stumbled up the big stone steps she had mounted on the day she was brought home as a bride.
Her dress caught her feet and she fell on her knees and scrambled up again, gasping; she dashed
across the huge dark hall, and, hurling herself against the door of the morning room, appeared,
dishevelled, haggard-eyed, and with scarlet patches on her wild, white face, before the Dowager,
who started angrily to her feet:

"Where is Nigel? Where is Nigel?" she cried out frenziedly.

"What in heaven's name do you mean by such manners?" demanded her ladyship. "Apologise at once!"

"Where is Nigel? Nigel! Nigel!" the girl raved. "I will see him--I will--I will see him!"

She who had been the mildest of sweet-tempered creatures all her life had suddenly gone almost
insane with heartbroken, hysteric grief and rage. She did not know what she was saying and
doing; she only realised in an agony of despair that she was a thing caught in a trap; that
these people had her in their power, and that they had tricked and lied to her and kept her
apart from what her girl's heart so cried out to and longed for. Her father, her mother, her
little sister; they had been near her and had been lied to and sent away.

"You are quite mad, you violent, uncontrolled creature!" cried the Dowager furiously. "You
ought to be put in a straitjacket and drenched with cold water."

Then the door opened again and Nigel strode in. He was in riding dress and was breathless and
livid with anger. He was in a nice mood to confront a wife on the verge of screaming hysterics.
After a bad half hour with his steward, who had been talking of impending disasters, he had
heard by chance of Wilson's conflagration and the hundred-pound cheque. He had galloped home
at the top of his horse's speed. All
I hope to demonstrate is the undisputed progress of science and the above discussed progress of art.
It is clear that Pericles is admire and like the phone, but also is clear or almost clear that
not admire or like almost any of our novels.

For even more evidence, we turn to other fine art: a sculpture. Nobody will deny that glorious character
who gave his name to his century and was so clear and delicate understanding like, remember the
Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias friend, and all the statues of our plazas, temples and tours will
seem less than medium. Now suppose that the resurrected Pericles cicerone serves as a sage of the deepest
in the day, very convinced of the incomparable superiority of everything today on all the old,
and very aware of the advances Science and brand new most ingenious inventions. This leads to the
Olympic wise Pericles to a cabinet or museum of wax figures and lets me shocked and stunned.
What have see Minerva and Jupiter, where gold, ivory and marble exterior only imitate what Nature and
even that incompletely and without all his hair and signals, as wax figures? Well say nothing
if the wise man winds up the figures, and as most of them are automated, are released to walk and even
open their mouths and greet the distinguished Greek Tourist.

"They have gone--gone!" wailed Rosalie. "You sent them away! My father, my mother, my sister!"

"Stop your indecent ravings!" ordered Sir Nigel, shaking her. "I will not submit to be disgraced
before the servants."

"Put your hand over her mouth, Nigel," cried his mother. "The very scullery maids will hear."

She was as infuriated as her son. And, indeed, to behold civilised human beings in the state
of uncontrolled violence these three had reached was a sight to shudder at.

"I won't stop," cried the girl. "Why did you take me away from everything--I was quite happy. The more runs with narrow channel, but very deep,
through Xarayes: and for this sail our boats without pregnancy whatsoever. The other arm is for
some miles along the western side of the Xarayes. And this, before returning to join the first,
perhaps Guabis enter the river, which runs from the peoples of the Chiquitos towards the east,
unless it be that the Guabis into a bend Caracará the lagoon, which communicates with the Paraguay
river almost at the bottom of the Xarayes.

Below Xarayes enters the eastern part in the Paraguay river of Porrudos, at the height of 17
degrees and 52 minutes. This river is very plentiful, and it enters in Cuiaba, as will be elsewhere.


Her ladyship had begun to rave also, and as mother and son were of equal violence when they
had ceased to control themselves, Rosalie began to find herself enlightened unsparingly. She
and her people were vulgar sharpers. They had trapped a gentleman into a low American marriage
and had not the decency to pay for what they had got. If she had been an Englishwoman, well
born, and of decent breeding, all her fortune would have been properly transferred to her husband
and he would have had the dispensing of it. Her husband would have been in the position to
control her expenditure and see that she did not make a fool of herself. As it was she was
the derision of all decent people, of all people who had been properly brought up and knew
what was in good taste and of good morality.

First it was the Dowager who poured forth, and then it was Sir Nigel. They broke in on each
other, they interrupted one another with exclamations and interpolations. They had so far lost
themselves that they did not know they became grotesque in the violence of their fury. Rosalie's
brain whirled. Her hysteria mounted and mounted. She stared first at one and then at the other,
gasping and sobbing by turns; she swayed on her feet and clutched at a chair. 

In places, neither more nor less than in large populations, there are many gossips; but concurred
on this occasion a thousand circumstances that prevented the slander is cebase so innocent in
relationships and perverse interpreted.

The main causes of the talk at once, as the reason or pretext or appearance, of any love affair,
particularly if they intended to marriage, did not show here. Usually, a cause that will talk and
gossip is the lover's desire, who would want to be told what is and even what is not, and sometimes
pretends that conceals so contrary skill, rather discovered or even to suspect mysteries and
adventures that perhaps not been achieved. Women are also less keen on not everything is known, particularly
when alleged and despise and outwit the suitors. And many, when the suitors are highly respected and
famous, even throwing to roll all respect, as long as the teasing abandoned rivals are, as they
say, a quarter to a preacher, and calls for her to disclose its fragility and its affairs.

None of this was taking place between the Father and Dona Luz. Rather
the opposite was true.

The young men or outsiders who, by most handsome and important, dared to aspire to Dona Luz and had
been rejected gently before a declaration that commits them, had such a high opinion of Mrs. Light
and of themselves, that everyone thought that was impregnable which to his charms and good qualities
had not surrendered.

How can we believe that like a monk almost sickly old man who had been cold, unfeeling and unloving
with a handsome boy, sturdy and handsome? This would have been monstrous.

Women are usually those who discover or invent adventures, falls or
slips their enemy, but Dona Luz was so far top and far removed from
all rivalry and had gained in such a way the affection of all, nobody
told him the steps and walked stalking to see if anyone was false
and charged with it afterwards.

On the other hand, Mrs. Manolita, with his talk, his poise and his jokes, was the organ most
authoritative and resonant Villafría public opinion, and Dona Manolita,
no longer having the slightest reason, but although he had not ever
had consented to say anything in against Dona Luz, had drowned in
their teasing voice of gossip more brazen.

The concept that the father had not paid in Villafría not to the point we spoke reeds were lifted.
Most, as you were not as fun and almost no understand him, he had all but forgotten, even
if ever it was agreed to consider him as a saint, annoying, and nothing valetudinarian fun. Man
who not used, and rare exotic bird, for Voltaireans place, there would have been difficult someone
would involve plotting for the restoration of the Inquisition and even children eating raw,
but no one fit in the head could be flirtatious and have good fortune
a man so pale, sickly, melancholic and forlorn.

For all these reasons, no one was malice, offending no one commented on how privacy and Dona Luz
and coexistence of the Father, who, on the other side, where tried, they were, they spoke and
still admired innocently, with the largest drop was within the small gathering, which nothing
transcends, in which everything is explained Blessed, or better that is not explained, because
not to D. Anselmo and his daughter and son, or to D. Acisclo, or for the priest D. Miguel,
required that any explanation. The priest D. Miguel, above all, and D. Acisclo, each in its own
way, were in Luz and the father left two people unique, two-thirds
of whose thoughts and words heard as one listens to music celestial
without entering what they meant.
And once standing on such velvet, both men and women, looking about them, felt, despite themselves,
the strange old thrill which some of them half resented and some warmly loved.

In the course of twelve years, a length of time which will transform a little girl wearing
a short frock into a young woman wearing a long one, the pace of life and the ordering of society
may become so altered as to appear amazing when one finds time to reflect on the subject. But
one does not often find time. What's so funny to laugh like that? - Said D. Acisclo.

Luz said no and laughed with more violence.

His laughter came to be very alarming condition. It was already known
that independent of will: nervous, insane.

She had kept the letter
in the breast.

In the United States of America, which have not yet acquired the serene sense of conservative
self-satisfaction and repose which centuries of age may bestow, the spirit of life itself is
the aspiration for change. Ambition itself only means the insistence on change. Each day is
to be better than yesterday fuller of plans, of briskness, of initiative. Each to-day demands
of to-morrow new men, new minds, new work. A to-day which has not launched new ships, explored
new countries, constructed new buildings, added stories to old ones, may consider itself a
failure, unworthy even of being consigned to the limbo of respectable yesterdays. Such a country
lives by leaps and bounds, and the ten years which followed the marriage of Reuben Vanderpoel's
eldest daughter made many such bounds and leaps. They were years which initiated and established
international social relations in a manner which caused them to incorporate themselves with
the history of both countries. As America discovered Europe, that continent discovered America.
American beauties began to appear in English drawing-rooms and Continental salons. They were
presented at court and commented upon in the Row and the Bois. Their little transatlantic tricks
of speech and their mots were repeated with gusto. It became understood that they were amusing
and amazing. The damned environment!

In
times of prosperity, when he lived in his palace in Palma, where
a Margalida her mother raised, it would have felt for her appetite
inspiring freshness of youth, without anything resembling love.

Other women then dominated him with seduction their devices and refinements. But here, in complete
solitude, with the most imperious instincts irritated by deprivation, seeing Margalida between the
dark and rugged beauty of her companions, beautiful as a white goddess of religious worship
that inspire people coppery dementia felt desire, and all his actions were absurd, as if he had lost
always right.

Had to flee: on the island there was no room for him. It may well be that deceive their pessimism
to appreciate the importance of affection that had pushed Margalida.

Maybe it was not desire, but love, the first true love of his life was almost sure of it. But although
it were, had to forget and escape, escape quickly.

Why go on this earth? What hope is keeping him?

... Margalida, as if it proves forces over the surprise experienced by knowing his love, he
was fleeing, hiding silent, I could only mourn, and tears were not a response. Pep, by a remnant
of worship traditional silent tolerate this quirk of lord, but was going to explode from one moment
another against the man who disrupted his life. The island, which had accepted him politely, now
seemed to rise against the stranger come a long way to disrupt their patriarchal quietism,
concentrated their existence, their pride of separate people, with the same ferocity that had risen
in other centuries against Norman, Arabic and Berber landed on its shores.

Impossible to meet everyone, he would flee. His eyes caressed a huge stretch of sea lying between
two hills, a blue curtain to conceal a rift in the earth. One piece at sea was the journey
of salvation, hope, the unknown that opens its arms mystery in the most difficult moments of life.
Perhaps return to Mallorca, to lead a respectable beggar lives next to the friends who still
remembered him, maybe pass the Peninsula and went to Madrid in search of a job, maybe end up
embarking for America. Everything was better to go there. I was not afraid, not intimidated by the
hostility of the island and its inhabitants, I felt was guilt, shame, by the disturbances that
had caused.

Instinctively her feet out to sea, which was now his love and hope. Avoided Can step by Mallo,
and upon arrival went to the beach along the shore, where the last heartbeat the waves came to be lost,
as thin sheet of glass, between the tiny pebbles mixed with fragments of clay.

When he was at the foot of the promontory of the tower, climbed up the loose rocks, going to sit
on the rock gnawed by the waves and almost detached from the coast. There had been thinking
a stormy night, the same that was presented as a suitor in house Margalida.

The evening was calm, the sea was extraordinarily intense and deep color transparency. Reflejábanse
sand funds as milk spots, the underwater rocks and dark vegetations rebullicio seemed to tremble with
a mysterious life. The white clouds floating on the horizon, rising before the sun on the
sea drew large areas of shadow. A extension piece was dark blue and matte, while beyond this
mantle movable seemed to boil water with bright golden bubbles. Sometimes, the sun hidden behind
the curtains of clouds, launched under his sleeve hem visible light, a jet Flashlight a long triangle
of white light, like a Dutch landscape.

Nothing in this aspect of the sea reminded Febrer stormy night, and however, Association forming
in our minds the ideas to places formerly neglected when we visited them, Febrer began to feel
the same thoughts, only Now, instead of forward, marching in the
opposite direction, with a confusion of defeat.

He laughed bitterly about his optimism on that occasion, the trust that had been neglected all their
ideas about the past. The dead rule: its authority and power are undeniable. How could he, loving
impulses of enthusiasm, ignoring the enormous and heartbreaking right? ... Well made him feel
gloomy tyrants of our lives all the overwhelming weight of his power. What had he done to you
in this corner of the earth, its last refuge, he mirasen as a stranger? ... The countless generations
of men whose dust and whose soul were confused with the land of the island had left as inheritance
to the present hatred of foreigners, fear and loathing of the stranger, with whom he lived
always at war.

He was coming from other countries was greeted with a repellent insulation, sorted by that
no longer existed.

When neglecting their old prejudices, trying to approach a woman, this woman replegábase mysterious
and fearful of such an approach. It was a crazy his work: the conjunction seagull rooster and
a monk extravagant dream and both laugh at the peasants. They had wanted men in the past to establish
and divide society into classes, and so should continue. Useless things to rebel against established.
The life of a man was short, and not enough to do battle with hundreds of thousands of lives
that had existed before spy on her and seemed invisible and pressed
between memory material creations were of his time on earth, overwhelmed
by their thoughts, that filled the room and were used by all who were
born without power to devise something new.

Send the dead and the living is useless to resist obeying. All transgressions get out of this
bondage, to break the chain of ages, all lies.

Febrer remembered sacred wheel of the Indian Buddhist symbol he had seen in Paris to attend Eastern
religious ceremony in a museum.

The wheel is the symbol of our life. We move because we move, we move forward because we are going
forward, and when the wheel turns full, we are in the site. The life of humanity, history,
everything was an endless "start afresh of things. " People are born, grow, progress, the cabin becomes
a castle and later in factory form the huge cities with millions of men, they occur after the disasters,
wars over scarce bread to so many people, the protests of the dispossessed, the mass killings,
and cities were depopulated and fall into ruins. The grass invades proud monuments, the metropolis
is gradually sinking into the ground and sleep under centuries hills. The untamed forest covers
the capital of remote times, goes hunting wild where once the leaders were greeted with apparatus
winners demigods; graze sheep and shepherd blows his flute on the ruins that were tribune dead
laws; men re-grouped and raises the hut, the village, the castle, the factory, the city enormous,
and repeats the same, always the same, with a difference of hundreds of centuries, as repeated in
other men the same movements, ideas and concerns over a few years. The wheel! The eternal restart
of things! And all creatures changing human herd sheep barn, but never pastors! And the shepherds
were always them, the dead, the first thought, and whose main thought was how the handful
of snow that rolls and rolls down the slopes, widening, leading acceded in its tack is to step
everything! ... The men, proud of their material, mechanical toy invented for their welfare, free
thought, exceeding last emancipated from the original easement, and said everything had been said
hundreds of centuries before, with different words! His passions were the same, their thoughts,
they considered own, were glare and reflections from other remote thoughts, and all acts that had for
good or ill-deserved this classification immutable, because it had been decided by dead, the tyrannical
dead, the man would kill again if he wanted to be really free ... Who would do this great feat
of liberation? What would champion strong enough to kill the monster that has hung over humanity,
huge and overwhelming, as the legends of dragons guarding treasures under his useless hulk? ...

Febrer
long remained motionless on the rock, elbows on knees and jaw hands, deep in thought, his eyes
mesmerized by the gentle rise and fall pulsating water.

When started this meditation began to fall afternoon ... Would continue to your destination!
He just could live in the heights, even if the humility of the mendicant.

All roads drop one appeared closed, bye, happiness sought in a return to natural life primitive!
Since the dead man was not wanted, it would be parasite.

His eyes wandered over the horizon, the white fijáronse vapors that
were piled on the edge of the sea.

When I was little and Antonia Madò accompanied him on trips around the coast Soller, had entertained
many times, giving body and name, with an effort of imagination, the clouds that touched or were
scattered in an endless variety of forms, seeing them as soon as a black monster of jaws swollen like
a virgin between celestial glow.

An accumulation of dense clouds and crisp white fleece which caught his eye. This white light was
the polished bone of the skull. Loose tufts of dark vapor floated on this cloud. Febrer's
imagination was seeing them as two black holes and terrifying, dark triangle similar to that makes
the nose disappeared in the face of the dead and below a huge gash, tragic, like the silent
laughter of a mouth without lips and teeth.

Death was the great lady, the empress of the world, which showed him with his white mate and
majesty, in broad daylight, defying the splendors of sun, blue sky, green light of the sea. The
reflection of the dying star put a spark of life in malignant bone Host pale face in the darkness
of their black sockets, his smile giving fright ... Yes, it was her! The clouds scattered
at sea level and folds appeared studs a robe that hid his huge skeleton, and other clouds floating
overhead, a large manga, which is more subtle and escaping vapors forming a swing arm bone topped
by an index as a dry and curved claw dam, pointing far, far away, mysterious destination.

The vision faded rapidly with movement of the clouds. Borráronse their frightful contours, adopting
other strange shapes, but Febrer, to lose sight, not out so of his hallucination.

Unquestioningly accepted the command: depart. The dead command, and he was their servant helpless.
The light of late afternoon gave the objects a strange relief. In the recesses of the coast marcábanse
strong shadows that seemed to give life and animal forms to the stones. In the distance, a headland
resembled a lion crouching beside the waves, looking at James with hostility silent. The cliffs
along the water taken out and hid their heads crowned black green manes, giant amphibians as
a human monster. The solo was by Formentera part of an immense dragon slowly moving in the
horizon, with long line of clouds, to devour treacherously the dying sun.

When the red area, fleeing from the danger, plunged into the water, expanded by a spasm of
terror, sadness woke gray twilight Febrer of his hallucination.

Stood up, picked up the abandoned gun beside him, and made his way to the tower. The program
was mentally preparing for his departure. I did not think a word to anyone. Would wait to play
at the port of Ibiza Mallorca mail steam, and only in the last Pep
time would account for its resolution.

The certainty of this retreat soon leave him with interest to see inside the tower the light
of a candle that had just lit. Its shadow, enlarged and hesitant gigantically the oscillations
of light, went back and forth on the white walls, eclipsing objects
that adorned them or causing them to glow the nacre of the shells
and the metal hanging gun.

Attracted some hawking known Febrer, and made him look out at the
top of the stairs.

A man wrapped in a shawl was in the first steps. It was Pep.

- The sopar - briefly said, holding a basket.

Jaime took it. We noticed in the peasant a desire not to speak, and he, in turn, felt some afraid
that broke its brevity.

- Bona nit!

Pep began the journey back to his farm after this brief greeting,
as a server respectful and angry that only allows his master essential
words.

Jaime back inside the tower, closed the door, leaving the basket on
the table. Was not appetite, dine later.

He took a pipe rustic, carved by a peasant in a branch of cherry snuff filled it and began
to smoke, followed by the fluttering eyes distracted spirals smoke, as subtle blue candle took
to the iridescent transparency.

Then he looked for a book and wanted to read, but was frustrated all the efforts to concentrate
attention on reading.

Out of that shell of stone ruled the night, a dark night, deep mystery. Al through the walls
seemed to seep that solemn silence that falls from above, and in which slightest noise gain terrifying
proportions, as if the rumor was heard himself.

Febrer I fancied the pounding of blood circulation in the deep quiet. Of occasionally heard the
shriek of a gull or the momentary excitement of tamarisk under a blast, like the murmur of crowds
theater hidden behind fake racks. On the ceiling of the room sounded like the creak-creak intervals
a monotonous worms gnawing beams with constant work, unnoticed during the day. The sea tore the
dark with a placid snoring, which was breaking wave on all outgoing and crannies of the coast.

For
the first time he realized exactly the solitude in which he lived. Was it possible to continue
this existence of a hermit?

And when surprised by the disease? And when he got older? ... At this hour the city began a new
life under the white glare of electric lighting, we cut the flow in the streets with the crush
of cars windows sparkled, abríanse theaters, sounded funny sidewalks under heels of beautiful women.
And he was like a primitive man inside a tower barbaric no other signs of civilization that wan
light that only served to make more visible darkness, surrounded
by a tragic silence, as if the world had slept forever.

Guessed the other side of the stone wall the shadow fraught with
mystery and danger. No housed the beast, as in prehistoric times,
but it could serve as shelter man.

Suddenly, Febrer, who stood motionless,
listening to himself, with a similar quiet that of fearful children
who fear removed in bed not to increase the mystery of their surrounding
shivered in his seat. Something extraordinary cut the air, dominating
with its stridency the confused noises of the night. It was a scream,
a howl, a snort, one of those voices hostile and mocking with the
vengeful atlots were called in the shade.

Jaime felt an impulse to
get up, run to the door, but then remained stationary.

It was no doubt her understanding of the power of facts which led her to learn everything well
and to develop in many directions. She began to dip into political and historical volumes because
she was furious, and wished to be able to refute idiocy, but she found herself continuing to
read because she was interested in a way she had not expected. She began to see things. Once
she made a remark which was prophetic. She made it in answer to a guileless observation concerning
the gold mines with which Boston was supposed to be enriched.

"You don't know anything about America, you others," she said. "But you WILL know!"

"Do you think it will become the fashion to travel in America?" asked a German girl.

"Perhaps," said Betty. "But--it isn't so much that you will go to America. I believe it will
come to you. It's like that--America. It doesn't stand still. It goes and gets what it wants."

She laughed as she ended, and so did the other girls. But in ten years' time, when they were
young women, some of them married, some of them court beauties, one of them recalled this speech
to another, whom she encountered in an important house in St. Petersburg, the wife of the celebrated
diplomat who was its owner being an American woman.

Bettina Vanderpoel's education was a rather fine thing. She herself had more to do with it
than girls usually have to do with their own training. In a few months' time those in authority
in the French school found that it was not necessary to supervise and expurgate her. She learned
with an interested rapacity which was at once unusual and amazing. And she evidently did not
learn from books alone. Her voice, as an organ, had been musical and full from babyhood. It
began to modulate itself and to express things most voices are incapable of expressing. She
had been so built by nature that the carriage of her head and limbs was good to behold. She
acquired a harmony of movement which caused her to lose no shade of grace and spirit. Her eyes
were full of thought, of speculation, and intentness.

"She thinks a great deal for one so young," was said of her frequently by one or the other
of her teachers. One finally went further and added, "She has genius."

This was true. She had genius, but it was not specialised. It was not genius which expressed
itself through any one art. It was a genius for life, for living herself, for aiding others
to live, for vivifying mere existence. She herself was, however, aware only of an eagerness
of temperament, a passion for seeing, doing, and gaining knowledge. Everything interested her,
everybody was suggestive and more or less enlightening.

Her relatives thought her original in her fancies. They called them fancies because she was
so young. Fortunately for her, there was no reason why she should not be gratified. Most girls
preferred to spend their holidays on the Continent. She elected to return to America every
alternate year. She enjoyed the voyage and she liked the entire change of atmosphere and people.

"It makes me like both places more," she said to her father when she was thirteen. "It makes
me see things."

Her father discovered that she saw everything. She was the pleasure of his life. He was attracted
greatly by the interest she exhibited in all orders of things. He saw her make bold, ingenuous
plunges into all waters, without any apparent consciousness that the scraps of knowledge she
brought to the surface were unusual possessions for a schoolgirl. She had young views on the
politics and commerce of different countries, as she had views on their literature. When Reuben
Vanderpoel swooped across the American continent on journeys of thousands of miles, taking
her as a companion, he discovered that he actually placed a sort of confidence in her summing
up of men and schemes. He took her to see mines and railroads and those who worked them, and
he talked them over with her afterward, half with a sense of humour, half with a sense of finding
comfort in her intelligent comprehension of all he said.

She enjoyed herself immensely and gained a strong picturesqueness of character. After an American
holiday she used to return to France, Germany, or Italy, with a renewed zest of feeling for
all things romantic and antique. After a few years in the French convent she asked that she
might be sent to Germany.

"I am gradually changing into a French girl," she wrote to her father. "One morning I found
I was thinking it would be nice to go into a convent, and another day I almost entirely agreed
with one of the girls who was declaiming against her brother who had fallen in love with a
Californian. You had better take me away and send me to Germany."

Reuben Vanderpoel laughed. He understood Betty much better than most of her relations did.
He knew when seriousness underlay her jests and his respect for her seriousness was great.
He sent her to school in Germany. During the early years of her schooldays Betty had observed
that America appeared upon the whole to be regarded by her schoolfellows principally as a place
to which the more unfortunate among the peasantry emigrated as steerage passengers when things
could become no worse for them in their own country. The United States was not mentally detached
from any other portion of the huge Western Continent. Quite well-educated persons spoke casually
of individuals having "gone to America," as if there were no particular difference between
Brazil and Massachusetts.

"I wonder if you ever saw my cousin Gaston," a French girl once asked her as they sat at their
desks. "He became very poor through ill living. He was quite without money and he went to America."

"To New York?" inquired Bettina.

"I am not sure. The town is called Concepcion."

"That is not in the United States," Betty answered disdainfully. "It is in Chili."

She dragged her atlas towards her and found the place.

"See," she said. "It is thousands of miles from New York." Her companion was a near-sighted,
rather slow girl. She peered at the map, drawing a line with her finger from New York to Concepcion.

"Yes, they are at a great distance from one another," she admitted, "but they are both in America."

"But not both in the United States," cried Betty. "French girls always seem to think that North
and South America are the same, that they are both the United States."

"Yes," said the slow girl with deliberation. "We do make odd mistakes sometimes." To which
she added with entire innocence of any ironic intention. "But you Americans, you seem to feel
the United States, your New York, to be all America."

Betty started a little and flushed. During a few minutes of rapid reflection she sat bolt upright
at her desk and looked straight before her. Her mentality was of the order which is capable
of making discoveries concerning itself as well as concerning others. She had never thought
of this view of the matter before, but it was quite true. To passionate young patriots such
as herself at least, that portion of the map covered by the United States was America. She
suddenly saw also that to her New York had been America. Fifth Avenue Broadway, Central Park,
even Tiffany's had been "America." She laughed and reddened a shade as she put the atlas aside
having recorded a new idea. She had found out that it was not only Europeans who were local,
which was a discovery of some importance to her fervid youth.

Because she thought so often of Rosalie, her attention was, during the passing years, naturally
attracted by the many things she heard of such marriages as were made by Americans with men
of other countries than their own. She discovered that notwithstanding certain commercial views
of matrimony, all foreigners who united themselves with American heiresses were not the entire
brutes primitive prejudice might lead one to imagine. There were rather one-sided alliances
which proved themselves far from happy. The Cousin Gaston, for instance, brought home a bride
whose fortune rebuilt and refurnished his dilapidated chateau and who ended by making of him
a well-behaved and cheery country gentleman not at all to be despised in his amiable, if light-minded
good nature and good spirits. His wife, fortunately, was not a young woman who yearned for
sentiment. She was a nice-tempered, practical American girl, who adored French country life
and knew how to amuse and manage her husband. It was a genial sort of menage and yet though
this was an undeniable fact, Bettina observed that when the union was spoken of it was always
referred to with a certain tone which conveyed that though one did not exactly complain of
its having been undesirable, it was not quite what Gaston might have expected. His wife had
money and was good-natured, but there were limitations to one's appreciation of a marriage
in which husband and wife were not on the same plane.

"She is an excellent person, and it has been good for Gaston," said Bettina's friend. "We like
her, but she is not--she is not----" She paused there, evidently seeing that the remark was
unlucky. Bettina, who was still in short frocks, took her up.

"What is she not?" she asked.

"Ah!--it is difficult to explain--to Americans. It is really not exactly a fault. But she is
not of his world."

"But if he does not like that," said Bettina coolly, "why did he let her buy him and pay for him?" He was a widower and D. Acisclo, and had a daughter
twenty, Morenilla very graceful, small body, still single, and called Dona Manolita aka the
snake. The so called because of its extraordinary resiliency and mobility. Claimed in the
people that were made and a batch of stalks of lizards. Said and did all the time two hundred thousand
funny nonsense, but all innocent and no commitment, so surnamed also the thunder, but it really
was not thunder, but storm of laughter, gay jokes and speeches rejoicing, because it was no
less talkative than his father. As Moreover, the bottom of Dona Manolita could not be more excellent.
He was loyal, affectionate without malice and without envy, sharp wit, and more judicious and
thoughtful in the importance of what promised stunning exterior and superficial.

As Dona Luz was serious and measured, Dona Manolita served to complete their modes be. For this,
no doubt, and other qualities that we have spoken, Dona Luz made her his companion. Doña Manolita
was the only person in Villafría tuteaba Dona Luz. Not yet trust her with total abandon, because
Dona Luz was very reserved, but by day days was winning more Dona Manolita in his heart. Boards
walk out walk, went together the church, and together they used to sit in the gatherings. Doña
Manolita mimicked Dona Luz in dress and hairstyle, and followed or where the name came. Dona
said Manolita that was it for Dona Luz which for the gallants of the swashbuckling comedy footman
funny, and recalling that several of the best comedies this lackey was called Moth, Dona Luz
said: "Child, I am your Moth."

Respect to D. Acisclo thought Dona Luz as her father, and not kept the former manager inquinia
the slightest, because it had raised nearly all the wealth of their elders. If The Marquis
had insisted on ruining what it sinned D. Acisclo? With some moral convoluted, Don Acisclo could
not know, maybe he saved the interests of the marquis perhaps would have done last another few
years the splendor of the house, but this request in those places was to order popcorn in the
Gulf. Enough, then, Dona Luz, to be profoundly grateful to D. Acisclo, the firm persuasion that entertained,
that any manager with another from there, the ruin of his father had been ten years earlier, and she
had not raised as an elegant lady, within the well-being, with English governess, and all care due.
God knows how it was raised and what it would have been ruined if the marquis berrenchín and
dies, leaving her an orphan aged five years and not fifteen.

Well liked Luz D. Acisclo. Sympathized with their activity, with a love of work and other virtues
that he shone.

For the good-looking, Dona Luz had lived, without any attempt at going home, home Don Acisclo,
until he was twenty. From then on, he tried several Sometimes going to live alone at home,
but D. Acisclo held her gently and lovingly. Gave him to understand that it would be a sadness
only after getting used to his company, and called also, somewhat grotesquely, what they say,
arguing that was a girl and Dona Luz was not walking free as old maid, who was good and severe,
if lived alone, had to say it was a cow's bell.

Doña Luz, far from being offended, laughed at this comparison ungallant,
and continued to live in the home of former manager.

On the other hand, the independence of Dona Luz was perfect.

Three or four rooms belonged to him alone in the house, and were furnished with most exquisite
taste. They did not come from the four daily but close friends and referrals: Joan the Maid, one
of the body of the house, which was cleaning under the supervision of Juana, in order not to break
an object of art or fine furniture, and, finally, other three beings, who were also semi - close
Dona Luz, and who completed or closed their circle family. Were these three beings Thomas the old
servant, and as his squire and companion when she went on horseback Uncle Blas, overseer of
the lady, who was meant to care property, which she ran and were improving to the point where
it produced about 20,000 rs. in some years of good harvest, and the
greyhound Palomo, white giant in its class, and terrible genius to
whom it seemed to him that upset or offended her love, with which
it was all gentleness, meekness and gentleness.

In addition to the normal society, not Dona Luz refused to attend other more broadly based. The
sons, daughters, daughters and sons of D. Acisclo, with flooding and numerous offspring, their
consuegro and Consuegra, godfathers and godmothers, formed a crowd
with whom it was necessary to switch.

All they were insignificant and not very funny, they were neither bad nor good, and Dona Luz
was miracles of diplomacy in order not to treat and not anger them much either.

In the days of the holy birthday of each individual to the family
of D. Acisclo had patriarchal food in the house, and dance fuss.

Luz excuse not to attend such functions, and almost always right
to leave on all of your kindness and joy.

-V-

Dona friendship Manolita

Dona
Luz's life was, however, so regular, so monotonous, so no accidents
to differentiate few days from other days, who had spent years, and
in memory of her was as a dream shooting, where everything was confused.

This

is for any spell of peace. For Dona Luz still had more charm.

The agitated his mind with thoughts, desires or their will or passions,
it was strange the world around her, coming from an ideal world, where
no space or time.

So that while Dona Luz, not distinguished in this from other men,
not thought or felt all at once, as the causes of his thinking and
his deep feeling were not marked point on our planet, and time marked
on the timeline, effects are also subtracted laws of succession and
the place and it seemed that they were given in a lifetime move.

I weigh not be clear and try to explain with more simplicity, but little to diffuse. Luz was not
a dreamy mystical life was far from infinite continuous rapture, see, understand and appreciated
what was happening around her in the real world, but the incidents and events Villafría the
less interested, though closely watched, that the incidents and events
that recounted stories and novels, that poetry was right to submit
or that she fantasized sometimes.

Dona Luz also did not have a heart of stone and mortar, but a very compassionate heart and
affectionate resented the evils and misfortunes of others, sought to remedy them, comforted them at
times, and consumed in this part of their business. But as his business was large, and very
dilated beyond the limits of Villafría and even dragged in a infinite came to be that the
most intimate and essential part of your life, what most affected was not in Villafría, and therefore
was not anywhere. Therefore, if it does dreamy lived like a dream.

However much we long to ponder the tenderness of someone, we're not going to say that they
are marked the most important periods of its existence the day the child died of smallpox
neighbor across the street, or the night they set fire to the farmhouse the farmer with whom
has ever talked to a walk or to leave the church. To mark these times, cases needed more intimately
touch our own being.

For Dona Luz had not time of this order since the death of his father. Truth is that, quite contrary
to the general women, it was worth little to many things that others fill the memory, without
neglect or delete the seemingly most insignificant details.

Nothing, in my opinion, it is noted that rather than the female spirit. I confess that I remain
listening enthralled to refer women events, sets or conversations. No small thing that be thrown into
oblivion. And he said ... and tell all he said. And said the other ... and do not forget word
you said. And then replied from beyond ... and neither is misplaced
a single letter of reply.

Imagine the listener up detailed and accurate record of as witness and hear. Not so Dona Luz. Luz
heeded very few events.

What most excited, delighted and moved, as it was today than yesterday, the same a year later
than a year earlier: the return of spring, a sky full of stars, moonlight, dawn, the smell
and beauty of the flowers, music, rhymes and things like that are forever.

Even the friendly relations of Dona Luz with the doctor, the priest and D. Acisclo were unchanged:
they were always in the same being, not grow or shrink.

Only in relations with Dona Manolita was no change, increasing the intensity of affection.

Let us, therefore, the moment that grows to a climax this friendship
between Dona Luz y Dona Manolita.

It was a May morning. We have said that Dona Luz morning. Also early in the morning the daughter
of doctor. At seven o'clock came to see her friend, and entered her boudoir, where she free admission.

If
any man in the world, aware of the life of Madrid or another European
capital, and knows the lifestyle of our places of Andalusia, had gone
there, it would pleasantly surprised and would have doubted what his
eyes saw.

Dona Luz The lounge had all the comfort, the elegance of a lady's
boudoir Madrid of the most comm'il faut, a pair of field singularities
and poetic the village.

Two windows looked out into the garden, where they were acacias, poplars,
black, flowers, fruit trees, also in bloom then, and bright greens.

Inside the parlor was also plants and flowers in porcelain cups. A large cage of birds enclosed
crowd cheered stay with their trills and chirps. Dona Luz had two exquisite antique desks
with drawers and columns, filled with inlaid ivory, ebony and mother of pearl, comfortable chairs
and sofas, a fireplace built better than the others in the house, mirrors, pretty pictures and
a closet full of glossy books.

On his writing table looked like the best picture, or at least more
Dona Luz estimated.

Contained a number of attributes and emblems of the Passion nails, crown of thorns, ladder, rooster
and spear of Longinus, in the center cross and the cross around nicely painted many flowers.
There was, however, that this painting was in the eyes of Dona Luz both price that object; what the
painting was covered up. He touched a spring, departed the painting we have described, like a
door, and took us to see another picture of superior merit, a horrible picture and beautiful at
the same time. It was the figure of Christ, medium body, admirable beauty and a job delicate and
neat. The beard and hair could be counted. The regularity and noble symmetry of all factions instilled
love and respect, but the anguish of the scaffold, the horrors of the agony, the torture they
were all marked on that face gaunt and haggard, and in that chest and those wounded by the
spear side. It was a dead Christ, the recess pale nail across his right hand resting on the emaciated
chest festering sores of thorns, blood still pouring, they were in their temples, the mouth
half open, bruised lips, eyelids drooping, but not completely closed, let see their eyes glaze and
fixed. The painter was right to join with inspiration monstrous image of a creature Next to dissolve,
and how superhuman God Himself had made.

Smart about that painting attributed to divine Morales, others said
it was a Morales disciple and not the master himself.

Anyway, the painting had been involved at home and was one of the few jewels of any claim that
the Marquis had not sold.

The picture was such a woman more delicate, less spirited Dona Luz, or you have in your room
or would look upon him as often. The representation of divine love of Christ had combined
with fear and with a tremendous compassion that perhaps had brought down seizures, or produced
in hysterics and even delirium. But Dona Luz was was very unique and strange delight in the
contemplation of that long table, where pinned the highest mystery, the two most opposite
extremes of human nature asserting: Beatification all, all beauty, all the heavenly glow that we
can meat, together with a pure soul, and being home temple of the Lord, and pains, while, and
misery, and suffering pitiful and sickening corruption of the flesh itself.

Luz wisely found this shocking picture covered by the other, and so he kept, bringing of the
manor to his room in the house of D. Acisclo. Almost no one showed him; but she, who had a very rare
condition and very contrary propensities in the active spirit and indefatigable, perhaps after
jogging and galloping and dangerous leaps on his black horse, for two or three hours, maybe after
you have cleaned, washed and rubbed with complacency her beautiful body, that the exercise had
become brave sweaty, overflowing it health, all the zest of youth and all the flowering of the
plastic beauty is impetus was full of ascetics, and opening her box, looked at him a long
time, and Tears came to his eyes and went to her red lips she murmured prayers ineffable and
just articulated.

That morning there was none in Dona Luz asceticism, or at least, had not come yet asceticism.
Dona Luz was wearing a beautiful gown and blond hair, no hair Moreover, subtle network collected.
Lying listlessly in an armchair, reading, and in this, as in another, of two books by his side.
Were Calderon and Alfredo de Musset. Luz walked studying and comparing how these two authors had put
into dramatic action that it: No teasing with love and Badine On ne pas avec l'amour.

Not impelled to this study mere hobby speculative literary criticism, but a practical case,
which was just over two months was presented and he was interested enough.

Güeto Pepe, the son of a wealthy farmer from Villafría, aged thirty years, was the man severe,
moderate and formally known throughout the province. The follies and joys something Dona decomposed
Manolita he clashed in a vicious and always was censored. Had been said that if Mrs. Manolita
it was something woman, for example, had to out of the corners of lizards body, although it
was necessary to use a good rod wicker. Doña Manolita, however, that he had known all along,
said Pepe had a lot Güeto lip service, it was somewhat educated man and would never use the
rod with women, and that if he might become her husband, instead of hitting, hitting and it would
be the model of the henpecked husband. The doctor's daughter added that the exaggerated severity,
especially in young men, mistaken for foolishness, and that, or she had little power, or was
to get Pepe Güeto gravity, as who gets the heck out of a possessed, and that if he was no fool,
had to be crazy, forcing him to make a thousand follies.

Also these threats came to the notice of Pepe ghetto, where he was, that wherever that she saw
him and was threatened again, and he scolded the brash and rowdy, and she laughed at the seriousness
of him and described as silly. The anger and bitterness of both grew in such a manner that
no longer sufficient to vent casual encounters, and often sought to move dispute and quarrel
and treated very badly. These fights ended by usually say that Pepe Güeto: - If I had the
misfortune to be your husband, and would get into the seam - and with Dona Manolita reply:
- If I incur in folly of being a woman of a man as fastidious, or put him happier than a rattle,
or I had to delete the name I have.

Güeto and Dona Pepe took Manolita such fondness for insults, curses and quarrels, which arming
each day three or four times.

This had raised questions about Dona Luz, because I wanted it to Dona Manolita, and on this occasion
I read those comedies, having reread another Shakespeare, where it
was the same subject in a more masterful.

Absorbed in reading that was Dona Luz, where, as we said, went to see Mrs. Manolita.

They kissed, hugged, they found the most cordial good morning, and then spoke the daughter of Physician:

-
My dear, you're the first one has to know. You'll know before my father. Great news! My fight with
Pepe Güeto no longer skirmishes.

The wrath of the two has reached its height.

We have engaged in a duel to the death.

- What do you mean? - "Dona Luz.

- I mean - said her friend - that to see if I get mad or if he makes me wise, we have decided to get
married. Truth is that he gives up for now, and says that they are home with me, should not
be in their right mind, and already, without getting married, you I won the game and the bet, but,
therefore, adds that wants to marry for revenge and retaliate. I answer that I feel not to lose
my son, but you want to get even, and I assure you will leave with hands on his head if he
keeps playing, and he threatened that his loss will be greater when
you are married, but the brash, daring, not afraid to charge me, and
closes eyes and lashes, and got married.

Today, with more courage than Cid will ask to my father is white hand, which will take the reins
and forced him out of step Canon mule and jump and be more clever than your beautiful black horse.

Doña
Luz, who could not hide his feelings, which showed on his face as
White pebbles through the clear water of a lake and gentle, rather
let see Although joy, knowing the new, already provided for her, the
marriage of his friend.

- How is that? - Continued the latter -.

Do you grieve me to marry? Do you feel the way informal? Do not you see it, simpleton? Do not fall
into that barbarous egoistón, Pepe Güeto, presumed and not without reason, to be a real boy, and all
the fury that has been and is still against me, lies that I had longed to love him so sad and so
serious, and I would since to sigh and mourn, not thinking only of him and not fun? Can not
you see it in love and rage that I do not think so in love or as capable of falling in love,
because I do not pout and do not get bored with tears and sublime? And do not calculate, finally,
I I love him too? If not, marry me? Once married, once the natural shrinkage that I save, I
will show my affection, and I'll see that it is a treasure in my soul, but hidden jokes and
joy, and when you see the treasure, and you enjoy, and know that it's yours, and better than
anything he could dream, must know that my heart is not cork but syrup and jelly, and has to
put such as jelly and syrup, and has to dance and laugh with pleasure, stating and confessing that
combine well the joys with true love, and laughter with ventura more serious and more serious in
the background.

Doña Luz, smiling and sighing at the same time, said then:

- It was not your kind concern for the cause of my sadness was my selfishness that after will achieve
victory. I feel that going to be happy and this I am glad, but I have jealousy for your friendship.
Why not confess? The only person I have gradually come to trust my heart and giving all my love,
you are. You, I admit, were paying me with interest, but now you have husband, and soon, perhaps,
have children, and all thy soul will be for them.

This poor orphan alone in the world, will be abandoned and without
a soul who understands and loves her.

Doña Manolita, tenderly embracing Dona Luz, said with these words:

- Although I did not have a thousand reasons to rejoice at my wedding, I glad, because I was excited
to declare your friendship now more explicit and as you've never done. I'm happy and proud that
both deem to friend me. Fear not you that neither Pepe Güeto, nor Güetillos that may shed some
light on what is to come, you steal that much of the soul I love you. Why, do you imagine the
chamber, corner, or place of my soul where the love of wife and mother, is filled or being filled
now, and formerly empty? Do you think that you love me did not exist before Pepe Güeto love? Go
if there was. What is is that then the boyfriend or husband, to whom I devoted, was dreamed,
made to order from mouth filled with perfection. The children, and I pretended I still pretend
they are a cherubim. As much as Pepe Güeto worth, not worth losing care or a hundred miles away,
I dreamed her husband. And as for the children, will be most noticeable difference, because
which have, if I have, as I hope and desire, not to be as clean and heavenly the imagined, but weeping,
naughty, dirty and stubborn, and I have to build up a thousand kennels
and should have between them a thousand cachetinas, all of which make
me not love them both.

Infer as I said, married and with children, you have to want more
than single, if you still love me you.

Even if you get married, will you let loving me?

- I'll never stop loving you - said Dona Luz -. I do not ever marry.

This last statement aroused much curiosity and interest of Mrs. Manolita,
and as privacy and confidence had reached its peak, there were many
secrets and revelations by Dona Luz, in a conference that its importance
merits a separate chapter.

-VI-

Dona Luz confidences

The doctor's
daughter led the confidences, telling Dona Luz:

- Why did not you
ever get married?

I do not deny, I know it is difficult but not impossible.

It's hard because these villages no boyfriend for you, and thou shalt not go for Groom to the big cities.
Not in your condition or your character go to find work, under the protection of an aunt,
you've neglected, or single and independent, now that you older.

- Useless is that I will answer - "Dona Luz -: you yourself answer
the question.

Our friendship, however, should be complete today. I want to give it the stamp of truth, not
taking secrets to you and opening my heart. I shall not fear, nor do I have to empty, or recesses
me on your concept, you have to show me the way I am. I will confess that anyone have confessed.
 But I must
first see Rosy--SEE her."

Mr. Vanderpoel thought the matter over during a few moments of silence.

"You do not wish your mother to go with you?" he said presently.

"I believe it will be better that she should not," she answered. "If there are difficulties
or disappointments she would be too unhappy."

"Yes," he said slowly, "and she could not control her feelings. She would give the whole thing
away, poor girl."

He had been looking at the carpet reflectively, and now he looked at Bettina.

"What are you expecting to find, at the worst?" he asked her. "The kind of thing which will
need management while it is being looked into?"

"I do not know what I am expecting to find," was her reply. "We know absolutely nothing; but
that Rosy was fond of us, and that her marriage has seemed to make her cease to care. She was
not like that; she was not like that! Was she, father?"

"No, she wasn't," he exclaimed. The memory of her in her short-frocked and early girlish days,
a pretty, smiling, effusive thing, given to lavish caresses and affectionate little surprises
for them all, came back to him vividly. "She was the most affectionate girl I ever knew," he
said. "She was more affectionate than you, Betty," with a smile.

Bettina smiled in return and bent her head to put a kiss on his hand, a warm, lovely, comprehending
kiss.

"If she had been different I should not have thought so much of the change," she said. "I believe
that people are always more or less LIKE themselves as long as they live. What has seemed to
happen has been so unlike Rosy that there must be some reason for it."

"You think that she has been prevented from seeing us?"

"I think it so possible that I am not going to announce my visit beforehand."

"You have a good head, Betty," her father said.

"If Sir Nigel has put obstacles in our way before, he will do it again. I shall try to find
out, when I reach London, if Rosalie is at Stornham. When I am sure she is there, I shall go
and present myself. If Sir Nigel meets me at the park gates and orders his gamekeepers to drive
me off the premises, we shall at least know that he has some reason for not wishing to regard
the usual social and domestic amenities. I feel rather like a detective. It entertains me and
excites me a little."

The deep blue of her eyes shone under the shadow of the extravagant lashes as she laughed.

"Are you willing that I should go, father?" she said next.

"Yes," he answered. "I am willing to trust you, Betty, to do things I would not trust other
girls to try at. If you were not my girl at all, if you were a man on Wall Street, I should
know you would be pretty safe to come out a little more than even in any venture you made.
You know how to keep cool."

Bettina picked up her fallen cloak and laid it over her arm. It was made of billowy frills
of Malines lace, such as only Vanderpoels could buy. She looked down at the amazing thing and
touched up the frills with her fingers as she whimsically smiled.

"There are a good many girls who can be trusted to do things in these days," she said. "Women
have found out so much. Perhaps it is because the heroines of novels have informed them. Heroines
and heroes always bring in the new fashions in character. I believe it is years since a heroine
'burst into a flood of tears.' It has been discovered, really, that nothing is to be gained
by it. Whatsoever I find at Stornham Court, I shall neither weep nor be helpless. There is
the Atlantic cable, you know. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why heroines have changed.
When they could not escape from their persecutors except in a stage coach, and could not send
telegrams, they were more or less in everyone's hands. It is different now. Thank you, father,
you are very good to believe in me."

CHAPTER VII

ON BOARD THE "MERIDIANA"

A large transatlantic steamer lying at the wharf on a brilliant, sunny morning just before
its departure is an interesting and suggestive object to those who are fond of following suggestion
to its end. One sometimes wonders if it is possible that the excitement in the dock atmosphere
could ever become a thing to which one was sufficiently accustomed to be able to regard it
as among things commonplace. The rumbling and rattling of waggons and carts, the loading and
unloading of boxes and bales, the people who are late, and the people who are early, the faces
which are excited, and the faces which are sad, the trunks and bales, and cranes which creak
and groan, the shouts and cries, the hurry and confusion of movement, notwithstanding that
every day has seen them all for years, have a sort of perennial interest to the looker-on.

This is, perhaps, more especially the case when the looker-on is to be a passenger on the outgoing
ship; and the exhilaration of his point of view may greatly depend upon the reason for his
voyage and the class by which he travels. Gaiety and youth usually appear upon the promenade
deck, having taken saloon passage. Dulness, commerce, and eld mingling with them, it is true,
but with a discretion which does not seem to dominate. Second-class passengers wear a more
practical aspect, and youth among them is rarer and more grave. People who must travel second
and third class make voyages for utilitarian reasons. Their object is usually to better themselves
in one way or another. When they are going from Liverpool to New York, it is usually to enter
upon new efforts and new labours. When they are returning from New York to Liverpool, it is
often because the new life has proved less to be depended upon than the old, and they are bearing
back with them bitterness of soul and discouragement of spirit.

On the brilliant spring morning when the huge liner Meridiana was to sail for England a young
man, who was a second-class passenger, leaned upon the ship's rail and watched the turmoil
on the wharf with a detached and not at all buoyant air.

His air was detached because he had other things in his mind than those merely passing before
him, and he was not buoyant because they were not cheerful or encouraging subjects for reflection.
He was a big young man, well hung together, and carrying himself well; his face was square-jawed
and rugged, and he had dark red hair restrained by its close cut from waving strongly on his
forehead. His eyes were red brown, and a few dark freckles marked his clear skin. He was of
the order of man one looks at twice, having looked at him once, though one does not in the
least know why, unless one finally reaches some degree of intimacy.

He watched the vehicles, heavy and light, roll into the big shed-like building and deposit
their freight; he heard the voices and caught the sentences of instruction and comment; he
saw boxes and bales hauled from the dock side to the deck and swung below with the rattling
of machinery and chains. But these formed merely a noisy background to his mood, which was
self-centred and gloomy. He was one of those who go back to their native land knowing themselves
conquered. Not only was there .-- You know Marica, Marica I
told him that I am sorry to bring the priest and the girl in the calash? - Why do you weigh? - Because
yes ... because man is not made Tovia these trades, you know you? - Ave Maria, what donkey
you, Lico! Stand back! Are not you ashamed? - Mia, Marica, you have not ran the world like
me. I have chaired by León, Palencia, Salamanca and Extremadura ground up ... The priests are
talking to pardon men like everyone else, and there are cases where women no repentance or priests
or brothers, or the verb became ...

These words were those that promoted the din. Neither the ushers with their voices, nor the
president could appease the bell sometime. Finally, one managed to be heard. Threatened to leave the
premises immediately, and this was enough to restore silence.

Then he turned against the witness.

- Warn the witness that if he has chaired by all those sites that says now is not going on track. Refrain
from rude words and stating the simple truth.

After the driver said the lad. His statement did not matter. Then went on some pious of rock that
stated in vague terms that they had observed some privacy unusual among Obdulia and his confessor,
but never had thought ill of her. Also deposed Fr Narciso. It was a model statement of hypocrisy
and wickedness. Using hyperbolic praise of virtue and talent of his partner, he knew, however,
to plunge this dagger handle. His reluctance insidious, stress and sadness that guard apologized
faults priests, and the last words to excite the benevolence of the
court, deep impression on the audience.

Seemed to justify his companion but through of her accent and her facial expression read it clear
that he condemned.

All eyes turned to the defendant. Fr Gil was like three months ago, when entered Peñascosa prison.
With the closure had won his face still white. Instead of fatigue and melancholy reflected
in recent times, we watched now cheerful serenity, a firm that had baffled all those attending
the trial. It seemed that those discussions were not with him, they were not his honor and
freedom over mat. The prevailing view in the competition, which had echoed and the press Lancia
liberal, was that this priest was a cynic, with little or no shame. No needed to be very lynx
to see what had attracted the antipathy of the court, especially President, who had already
made clear on several occasions. As he always did declaring a witness, the defendant now contemplated
P. Narcissus in the eye, with steady gaze and calm.

The young priest spoke with his eyes on the ground, and everyone praised his modesty and moderation
of his words.

Then went through the door of the witnesses, Don Martin de las Casas. After your name, age, status,
profession, etc., the president asked

- Have you been ever prosecuted?

D. Martin, who was quite upset, because it was primarily a man of action, as we know, not right,
"replied hesitating:

- I do not remember.

- Man, do not you remember! Well, this is rarely forgotten.

The presidential statement aroused great joy in the competition. The
invalid gritted teeth.

Would have the other shoulder to strike a blow that old. This observing his irritation, interrupted
several times as stated, guiding you through some buzz questions that followed exhilarating
the audience.

The fierce chief of Peñascosa stored in a few moments so much anger that nothing was proposed
less than spitting in the face and challenge the president as soon as saliesen the street. However, this
powerful man, worthy of living in the Iron Age, stumbled upon it by the Later in the casino,
and instead of inferred grievance, he took off his hat with great reverence. And there is
nothing to discourage the heroes as well as the prison cell.

Immediately
called D. Peregrin Casanova, which, contrary to what had happened
his friend, came majestically into the room, snorting and rolling
like a steam dock to dock. In essence, the former acting governor
of Tarragona went on to say that Peñascosa toilets had never been
his favorite saint. The characters withdrawn, meek silent, had not
been successful. Others may give it, not discussed, but in his long
career he held various administrative subordinates were about to commit,
and had always been characters similar to the defendant. When he ran
for the Peñascosa Obdulia species that had escaped to the toilet,
he had said: "Impossible, I'm sure that this man has been deceived. They want to amalgamate with English people, not for their own sake,
but because their women like it, and so they offer the men thousands of acres full of things
to kill. They can get them by paying for them, and they know how to pay." He laughed a little,
lifting his square shoulders. "Balthamor's six thousand acres of grouse moor and Elsty's salmon
fishing are rented by the Chicago man. He doesn't care twopence for them, and does not know
a pheasant from a caper-cailzie, but his wife wants to know men who do."

It must be confessed that Salter was of the English who were not pleased with the American
Invasion. In some of his views of the matter he was a little prehistoric and savage, but the
modern side of his character was too intelligent to lack reason. He was by no means entirely
modern, however; a large part of his nature belonged to the age in which men had fought fiercely
for what they wanted to get or keep, and when the amenities of commerce had not become powerful
factors in existence.

"They're not a bad lot," he was thinking at this moment. "They are rather fine in a way. They
are clever and powerful and interesting--more so than they know themselves. But it is all commerce.
They don't come and fight with us and get possession of us by force. They come and buy us.
They buy our land and our homes, and our landowners, for that matter--when they don't buy them,
they send their women to marry them, confound it!"

He took half a dozen more strides and lifted his shoulders again.

"Beggarly lot as I am," he said, "unlikely as it seems that I can marry at all, I'm hanged
if I don't marry an Englishwoman, if I give my life to a woman at all."

But, in fact, he was of the opinion that he should never give his life to any woman, and this
was because he was, at this period, also of the opinion that there was small prospect of its
ever being worth the giving or taking. It had been one of those lives which begin untowardly
and are ruled by unfair circumstances.

He had a particularly well-cut and expressive mouth, and, as he went back to the ship's side
and leaned on his folded arms on the rail again, its curves concealed a good deal of strong
feeling.

The wharf was busier than before. In less than half an hour the ship was to sail. The bustle
and confusion had increased. There were people hurrying about looking for friends, and there
were people scribbling off excited farewell messages at the telegraph office. The situation
was working up to its climax. An observing looker-on might catch glimpses of emotional scenes.
Many of the passengers were already on board, parties of them accompanied by their friends
were making their way up the gangplank.

Salter had just been watching a luxuriously cared-for little invalid woman being carried on
deck in a reclining chair, when his attention was attracted by the sound of trampling hoofs
and rolling wheels. Two noticeably big and smart carriages had driven up to the stopping-place
for vehicles. They were gorgeously of the latest mode, and their tall, satin-skinned horses
jangled silver chains and stepped up to their noses.

"Here come the Worthingtons, whosoever they may be," thought Salter. "The fine up-standing
young woman is, no doubt, the multi-millionairess."

The fine, up-standing young woman WAS the multi-millionairess. Bettina walked up the gangway
in the sunshine, and the passengers upon the upper deck craned their necks to look at her.
Her carriage of her head and shoulders invariably made people turn to look.

"My, ain't she fine-looking!" exclaimed an excited lady beholder above. "I guess that must
be Miss Vanderpoel, the multi-millionaire's daughter. Jane told me she'd heard she was crossing
this trip."

Bettina heard her. She sometimes wondered if she was ever pointed out, if her name was ever
mentioned without the addition of the explanatory statement that she was the multi-millionaire's
daughter. As a child she had thought it ridiculous and tiresome, as she had grown older she
had felt that only a remarkable individuality could surmount a fact so ever present.

It was like a tremendous quality which overshadowed everything else.

"It wounds my vanity, I have no doubt," she had said to her father. "Nobody ever sees me, they
only see you and your millions and millions of dollars."

Salter watched her pass up the gangway. The phase through which he was living was not of the
order which leads a man to dwell upon the beautiful and inspiriting as expressed by the female
image. Success and the hopefulness which engender warmth of soul and quickness of heart are
required for the development of such allurements. He thought of the Vanderpoel millions as
the lady on the deck had thought of them, and in his mind somehow the girl herself appeared
to express them. The rich up-springing sweep of her abundant hair, her height, her colouring,
the remarkable shade and length of her lashes, the full curve of her mouth, all, he told himself,
looked expensive, as if even nature herself had been given carte blanche, and the best possible
articles procured for the money.

"She moves," he thought sardonically, "as if she were perfectly aware that she could pay for
anything. An unlimited income, no doubt, establishes in the owner the equivalent to a sense
of rank."

He changed his position for one in which he could command a view of the promenade deck where
the arriving passengers were gradually appearing. He did this from the idle and careless curiosity
which, though it is not a matter of absolute interest, does not object to being entertained
by passing objects. He saw the Worthington party reappear. It struck Salter that they looked
not so much like persons coming on board a ship, as like people who were returning to a hotel
to which they were accustomed, and which was also accustomed to them. He argued that they had
probably crossed the Atlantic innumerable times in this particular steamer. The deck stewards
knew them and made obeisance with empressement. Miss Vanderpoel nodded to the steward Salter
had heard discussing her. She gave him a smile of recognition and paused a moment to speak
to him. Salter saw her sweep the deck with her glance and then designate a sequestered corner,
such as the experienced voyager would recognise as being desirably sheltered. She was evidently
giving an order concerning the placing of her deck chair, which was presently brought. An elegantly
neat and decorous person in black, who was evidently her maid, appeared later, followed by
a steward who carried cushions and sumptuous fur rugs. These being arranged, a delightful corner
was left alluringly prepared. Miss Vanderpoel, after her instructions to the deck steward,
had joined her party and seemed to be awaiting some arrival anxiously.

"She knows how to do herself well," Salter commented, "and she realises that forethought is
a practical factor. Millions have been productive of composure. It is not unnatural, either."

It was but a short time later that the warning bell was rung. Stewards passed through the crowds
calling out, "All ashore, if you please--all ashore." Final embraces were in order on all sides.
People shook hands with fervour and laughed a little nervously. Women kissed each other and
poured forth hurried messages to be delivered on the other side of the Atlantic. Having kissed
and parted, some of them rushed back and indulged in little clutches again. Notwithstanding
that the tide of humanity surges across the Atlantic almost as regularly as the daily tide
surges in on its shores, a wave of emotion sweeps through every ship at such partings.

Salter stood on deck and watched the crowd dispersing. Some of the people were laughing and
some had red eyes. Groups collected on the wharf and tried to say still more last words to
their friends crowding against the rail. 

I got it to work with all possible activity, but seemed to me to complement my American studies
was essential to my work was so helpful as I wanted. I needed to establish a positive comparison,
connections or differences that could exist between orography geological composition, especially
agricultural and industrial potential of the mountains of Bolivia, and our mountains of the
Pyrenees and the Alps. Wanted to go too, under these same views, fields in the north, west and
especially the south of France, in order to draw with knowledge of fact, to try every American
province, improvements in them could be introduced. While it is conceivable that it was necessary
to invest time in research of this species, more especially as, without being helped in any
way in this regard, I should impose all sorts of sacrifices to achieve my object. Finally, by
dint of perseverance armed with a strong will, little by little I could overcome the difficulties,
and these voyages of exploration, made at my expense, and repeated in all parts of France, in Savoy,
Suisa, Germany and Belgium, have allowed me to set my mind on a multitude of issues relating
to the improvement of the countries I had visited, and especially of Bolivia, to which above
all wanted to be useful, however, she lies and dreams in that chore I had my tax on their behalf.
These are the reasons that made me suspend so long the publication of the historical narrative
of my journey on the mountains Bolivia. But in spite of all these delays, my work [1] is now
to complete. She consists of a series of volumes containing:

1 ° The historical part or the narrative of my journey;

2 ° The geography;

3 ° The geology;

4 ° Paleontology;

5 ° The American man;

6 ° mammals

7
° birds

8 ° The fish;

9 ° molluscs and snails;

10 ° Crustaceans;

11
° insects

12 ° foraminifera;

13 ° polyps;

14 ° Palms;

16 ° cryptogams.

Such

was the state of things on my posts about the new world, where HE
General Don José Ballivian, president of Bolivia, animated most ardent
zeal for the advancement and improvement of their beautiful country,
had seen fit to remember me, responsible for giving birth to a complete
geographical description, statistics and historical information on
that republic.

Honored with this new proof of confidence from a government that
wanted to be helpful, I accepted gladly such a task, in spite of my
other scientific works, taking advantage of this occasion, that I
longed to give Bolivia a public testimony of my gratitude, making
known its soil, and the main and most useful productions of this,
while the benefits they removed, according to our industry and agriculture,
its various modes benefit.

Had as the possibility of publishing many and very precious documents
in my explorations European transatlantic and, diversity of applications
important to the local industry and trade, all of which, being a very
special interest to Bolivia, no I would have been allowed to print
in the general work of my journey.

In undertaking this particular, completely free from political concerns,
I will have achieved I intend to object if it can cooperate to improve
the noble thoughts and of progress in Bolivia, incessantly occupied
Ballivian HE general, as well If reached, this long work, to give
to the Bolivian proof of my gratitude and my attachment to all.

* * * * *

PLAN OF THE WORK.

A geographical description, statistics, and history of Bolivia can be considered in two ways different
principle or be given to her by exposure of the general relative the set, and then entered
partial details peculiar to each department and to each province or follow a reverse, describing
first the specialty ie, the provinces, to give immediately the department summary, and finish
the work general considerations can be drawn from all the particular facts. This second method
of writing is that I shall take to my work, be more appropriate than the previous and also the most
logical than deductions because deductions is to summarize the known facts and circumstances, grouping
them to take the consequences.

Adopted this plan, will trace the first division in a department, then I will detail of each
province gave its geographical situation in latitude and longitude its extension on the surface,
its limits, its configuration, its orographic, address form and geological
composition of their mountains, its valleys and plains, I will then
a complete description of the rivers that cross, lakes and swamps
that cover, the nature of its land and its temperature.

To complete my painting, I try to Finally draw the entire outline of his face animal, vegetable
and mineral, according to its various regions.

After giving to know the country under the guise of its natural character, principiaré the
history.

       The first time contains, according to early writers and according
to my observations, details on the American nations before the conquest
of new world inhabited the province.

Describe their ancient limits, its divisions, their migrations, their
customs, Regarding seeking to scrutinize the real or fabulous history
and its religion.

Outlined the first picture, going down in history of the conquest. I will continue in his excursions
to those bold and brave Spanish adventurers who crossed the thirst of gold country everywhere,
making known to the hordes of savages, or semi-civilized peoples, the European firepower. Also
accompany the persistent apostles of evangelical faith, feared not face, in order to get the object
of their religious mission, many dangers at every step they saw as a spring under their feet.
Try, more to give a description of these nascent colonies, indicating its progress and its
transition from the yoke of Spain to the independence National: Finally,
across all ages and different degrees of civilization, arrive at the
current state, it deserves a wider development.

Will begin with a chapter that treats of the population according to political divisions and castes,
and which give a slight review of the uses, the way of living of the inhabitants, their amusements,
their manners in general and in particular. Then I will give a description of all the inhabited
places, dealing with their resources, their trade, the means of communication that bind to each
other. Considering the whole province, I will discuss the products of their industry today,
from natural products that could be used in the animal, vegetable
and mineral.

Another chapter will indicate the improvement of agricultural, industrial and trade for each province
is susceptible, becoming known as possible, through comparison with different regions of Europe,
who shall preferably should be applied to each branch, in Bolivia points that come closest to
the former, to utilize all local resources so multiplied, and largely
unknown to the present.

In these latter considerations, that are most important, discuss the question of the great means
of communication, and the channels for commercial traffic, giving the fullest detail navigation
interior, and the possibility of opening a direct correspondence between Bolivia and Europe,
whether down the rivers Madeira and the Amazon, either by the rivers Pilcomayo Paraguay and La-Plata,
thus opening an inexhaustible source of wealth for Bolivia, and for the European government that
wishes to undertake this gigantic task, as worthy of a century of progress.

After making the subsequent description of all the provinces, according to the order I have
just mentioned, I will finish the work by the general in overall
terms, under the same views embrace the whole republic.

Summary latter include the history and ancient geography of the Incas, whose mysterious crib on
the shores of Lake Chucuito also belongs to Bolivia. Tiaguanaco is between the Aymara nation,
where he has developed since then agricultural and pastoral life, where social ideas have germinated,
where was born the first royal and religious government of Peru. It is also in Bolivia (La-Paz) which
brought the first cries of freedom and independence of South America, July 16, 1809.

ORDER OF PUBLICATION.

Two circumstances I determined to start the description of Bolivia's departments Beni and Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra,
or better say the interior provinces of Caupolican, of Yuracaré, Moxos and Chiquitos. It consists
of the first in which the central provinces the continent are less known to the mass of the Bolivian
population, and that is important for government and for speculators to know the advantages they offer,
to the various kinds of benefit or to their commercial transactions, regardless of interest
Always inspiring loving citizen of his country, knowledge of some of its own country, which
may never be seen in the case of visiting. I trust that also include the second reason, he
lies on the very natural desire that I experience, to make that the work I have been called upon
to write, be as complete as possible. If I am familiar all details pertaining to the provinces
of Moxos, Chiquitos, Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra and Yuracares, I am very far from having all
the data I wanted on the departments Chuquisaca, La-Paz, Cochabamba,
Potosi, Oruro and Tarija.

Doi as principle to the work of the interior provinces hoping that I get, for its publication,
by the active cooperation of so many men have trained as Bolivia, the indispensable of my particular
observations.

In order to bring forth a more complete work, I make today a general appeal to Bolivian patriotism, asking:

Documents
1, ancient or modern about the story, consisting, as in manuscripts, and in notes containing
precise data on the changes of government under Spanish rule during the wars of independence, or
after the glorious battle of Ayacucho.

2 ° Advice on the ancient remains of the civilization of the Indians,
all objects of those times, such as vases, weapons, ornaments, etc..
Must be attached some notes on the state and other circumstances in
which these objects may have been collected.

3 ° partial or general descriptions of provinces, cities and towns, and finally all data pertaining
to the geography, statistics, agriculture and to the products of the different regions.

4 ° Details specified on all mines, and the benefit or advantage, gold, silver, tin, copper, lead,
etc. Mineral samples, in order to make chemical analysis and to indicate, according to the current
metallurgical knowledge of Europe, whether to apply new methods of tillage. Finally, all documents
concerning the management and wealth veins, and ancient and modern products mines.

5 ° I even dare to claim, among the objects belonging to the three kingdoms, those could make any
useful result, or interesting to the curious by nature, forms and colors.

Meanwhile take care during the course of the work, provided in the relevant register pages, the names
of all those who have earned public recognition, provide me with any information, or ancient artifacts
and natural history.

In this I respect that from now on be allowed to appoint Don Antonio Acosta, who has been
good enough to give me very valuable documents on the provinces of
Esquivel, Doll, of Caupolican and many other parts of the republic.

Helped because of the generous and enlightened participation of all
Bolivians love their country, I have no doubt that my efforts will
be crowned to making this work on Bolivia, is a national monument
worthy of the stupendous wealth of this beautiful part of the continent
American.

* * * * *

Having to make use of a language not mine, should lend their cooperation in the this literary work,
the young Bolivian DON RICARDO BUSTAMANTE, which recommend application
most particularly to the consideration of his countrymen, in attention
to the noble desire encourages him to serve his country.

DESCRIPTION GEOGRAPHIC, HISTORICAL AND STATISTICAL BOLIVIA

BENI DEPARTMENT [1].

There are cases where the political independence of a people has a
significant impact on progress the progressive civilization.

When Moxos by egemplo, a distance of over two hundred leagues Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra, belonged
to the department of that name, was no doubt condemned to being unable to leave their stationary
condition, sufficient for it solely on the fact not communicate with
another point but with its capital, which made both their needs, the
abundance of their resources, were completely ignored by the government.

To change This lamentable state of things, to cut abuses and implement a remedy for many ills
to use, in short, substantial assets with which nature has endowed this province General Don
José Ballivian, current president of the republic, took the party to form it under the name
of Beni, a separate department, meeting with the territories of Caupolican and Yuracares.

The
creation of this department in 1842, is one of the many measures that announce country's entry
into the path of progress, while the burning zeal for the good general,
encouraging his current government.

Accretion of the intrinsic value of a people, and enhances their own eyes is certainly giving
a new existence, it is necessary to instill the spirit he can leave
his fatal numbness, and move quickly towards the improvements of every
kind.

       They hoped that similar projections will not pass away, and that
these three regions, which were reduced to a half savage state, are
today the new department of Beni, molt entirely of condition: I, for
my part, I trust it more so, because, for the next opening of his
voyage to Europe, for its iron mines, and a thousand other natural
resources that characterize these three provinces have become indispensable,
the center large commercial speculations, and perhaps the most significant
industry focus that will Bolivia.

Beni holds in its division, that vast area of ​​plains and mountains that make up the northern
extremity of the republic.

Under an oblong shape, this surface, which goes from northeast to
southeast, is limited to the west and north-west in Guancané provinces
and Carabaya belonging to Peru and to the north, following the ancient
border with Brazil, in the Beni River reunion with the Mamore, as
10 degrees latitude South: limit then serve him during the Mamore
to its confluence with the Guapore as well as the course of this,
heading toward its headwaters, to the extent that Green river waters
deposited therein.

Leaving the border of Brazil, the department is separated from the province of Chiquitos (which
falls within the department of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra) and also in the province of Santa Cruz,
by a fictitious line, crossing places inhabited the south and southeast part of the plains of
Moxos.

The slope of the Cordillera Oriental of the provinces of Valle Grande and the department Cochabamba
as limited to the south and southeast, and, later, the river of Mocetenes: Finally, the mountains
north of Dolls are set it apart from the provinces of Yungas Dolls and belonging to the Department
of La-Paz [1].

Circumscribed because of the way we just saw, the department of Beni,
covers oblonga as of twenty thousand square leagues (to twenty-five
of the degree of surface area) covered between 64 and 73 degrees west
longitude meridian of Paris, and between 10 and 16 south latitude.

This area comprises the east and north, vast plains bathed by many navigable rivers, all tributaries
of the River Madeira, and therefore the Amazon River and the west or southwest through the mountains
of the eastern of the Cordilleras, mountains, which are always covered
with the most prodigious vegetation the world.

This department is divided into three provinces: the Caupolican, which occupies the north-west
line, in the mountains and plains that are at the foot, the country of Yuracaré, which is not
only a continuation South of these mountains and plains, the Moxos, finally, that only includes the
plain the northeast. Distinguishing these three districts on many points, I give them separately,
a fairly detailed description.

BENI DEPARTMENT

CAUPOLICAN province [1].

Division and extent.

As I have said, Caupolican province occupies the north-west of the department including between 10
and 16 degrees south latitude and between 70 and 73 western longitude Paris meridian. She
is an oblong area, north-northeast directed to sudsudoeste, which has one hundred twenty miles
long sea, and over sixty wide, taking the term medium. This area is also, more or less, of six
thousand two hundred and fifty leagues square, twenty-degree [2].

Limits.

The boundaries of the province Caupolican are: to the south, the transverse chain of mountains,
separates the province of Dolls (Department of La-Paz), on the west and southwest, the great
Eastern Cordillera, which clearly limited by the provinces of Guancané
and Carabaya (Republic of Peru), towards the north, it has no limit
on the side Brazil and Peru, which the vast deserts still unknown,
and inhabited only by some savage tribes, and finally, the course
of the Beni River bounded on the east by the Moxos.

Mountains.

Caupolican province is one of the more curious in its in mountainous terrain.
 There they are," pushing her to the
place where they hung. "Marie--dress yourself this moment. We may be in no real danger at all."

"Do you think not! Oh, Betty!" they wailed in concert. "Oh, what shall we do with mother!"

"Where is your mother?"

"She fainted--Louise----"

Betty was in Mrs. Worthington's cabin before they had finished speaking. The poor woman had
fainted, and struck her cheek against a chair. She lay on the floor in her nightgown, with
blood trickling from a cut on her face. Her maid, Louise, was wringing her hands, and doing
nothing whatever.

"If you don't bring the brandy this minute," said the beautiful Miss Vanderpoel, "I'll box
your ears. Believe me, my girl." She looked so capable of doing it that the woman was startled
and actually offended into a return of her senses. Miss Vanderpoel had usually the best possible
manners in dealing with her inferiors.

Betty poured brandy down Mrs. Worthington's throat and applied strong smelling salts until
she gasped back to consciousness. She had just burst into frightened sobs, when Betty heard
confusion and exclamations in the adjoining room. Blanche and Marie had cried out, and a man's
voice was speaking. Betty went to them. They were in various stages of undress, and the red-haired
second-cabin passenger was standing at the door.

"I promised Miss Vanderpoel----" he was saying, when Betty came forward. He turned to her promptly.

"I come to tell you that it seems absolutely to be relied on that there is no immediate danger.
The tramp is more injured than we are."

"Oh, are you sure? Are you sure?" panted Blanche, catching at his sleeve.

"Yes," he answered. "Can I do anything for you?" he said to Bettina, who was on the point of
speaking.

"Will you be good enough to help me to assist Mrs. Worthington into her berth, and then try
to find the doctor."

He went into the next room without speaking. To Mrs. Worthington he spoke briefly a few words
of reassurance. He was a powerful man, and laid her on her berth without dragging her about
uncomfortably, or making her feel that her weight was greater than even in her most desponding
moments she had suspected. Even her helplessly hysteric mood was illuminated by a ray of grateful
appreciation.

"Oh, thank you--thank you," she murmured. "And you are quite sure there is no actual danger,
Mr.----?"

"Salter," he terminated for her. "You may feel safe. The damage is really only slight, after all."

"It is so good of you to come and tell us," said the poor lady, still tremulous. "The shock
was awful. Our introduction has been an alarming one. I--I don't think we have met during the
voyage."

"No," replied Salter. "I am in the second cabin."

"Oh! thank you. It's so good of you," she faltered amiably, for want of inspiration. As he
went out of the stateroom, Salter spoke to Bettina.

"I will send the doctor, if I can find him," he said. "I think, perhaps, you had better take
some brandy yourself. I shall."

"It's queer how little one seems to realise even that there are second-cabin passengers," commented
Mrs. Worthington feebly. "That was a nice man, and perfectly respectable. He even had a kind
of--of manner."

CHAPTER IX

LADY JANE GREY

It seemed upon the whole even absurd that after a shock so awful and a panic wild enough to
cause people to expose their very souls--for there were, of course, endless anecdotes to be
related afterwards, illustrative of grotesque terror, cowardice, and utter abandonment of all
shadows of convention--that all should end in an anticlimax of trifling danger, upon which,
in a day or two, jokes might be made. Even the tramp steamer had not been seriously injured,
though its injuries were likely to be less easy of repair than those of the Meridiana.

"Still," as a passenger remarked, when she steamed into the dock at Liverpool, "we might all
be at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean this morning. Just think what columns there would have
been in the newspapers. Imagine Miss Vanderpoel's being drowned."

"I was very rude to Louise, when I found her wringing her hands over you, and I was rude to
Blanche," Bettina said to Mrs. Worthington. 

Having been in the savage state fanatics and cruel in the highest degree to keep the observance
of superstitious beliefs, failed to embrace the Catholic religion, without Like letting go
of exaggeration, for what was a very easy subject to all the rules Christianity. The Indians
were not yet baptized they going to listen to the rout daily sermons of the missionaries, and
those who already were, time to attend Mass in the holidays, and once in the ordinary, particularly
on Saturday to sing and pray at morning and evening choir, and Spanish, and in Moxo. Arguably
however, in this regard, that the Jesuits were let go very far to the fans Moxos, submitting to the
severe regime, reserved only for the monastery. An immense amount of time was spent by these Indians
in the exercise of church, he often took communion, and the slightest lack religious lashed
them to ask themselves as for any ordinary crime [1]. Father Eguiluz speaking of Holy Week, said
that all individuals, without distinction of age, confessed and communicated. On Friday, while the
sermon lasted passion, dábanse all "many slapping and beating of breasts ... "" After ordering the
procession through the square and main streets carried on a litter package the image of Christ
crucified, and in others of the Holy Virgin, with more than two hundred lights, a big silence and composure
do not hear a word, but the whipping of a large number of penitents blood, dragging ropes and
heavy sticks, and other dresses of Nazareth, with crosses to the shoulders, singing the chorus
of musicians the miserere ... "" Several church choirs sing lamentations, for the duration
of penance and penitents, they pass in front of the monument, and most recently bowing discipline
to view the image of Christ crucified [2]. "When a plague ensuing immediately they prayed a novena,
accompanied by fasting and other penances, then, - "every night there talk and act of contrition,
and go along the bias to make discipline, and if some for old, or by the novelty of the exercise, its
given with little force, angry listeners, and scold him to squeeze his hand [3]. "Thus, according
to the state's religious exaggeration Spain at that time, the Jesuits to most of the principles
of sound morality and religion Catholic imposed Moxos fans such corporal punishment, the reviled,
removing not a little to their human dignity.

They left the Jesuit Fathers meantime, since the said year 1696, to carry out his conquests and taking
advantage of fame, and highly publicized, the well-being enjoyed
by the Moxos Christians, formed on, San-Pedro with Canichana, Santa-Ana
with Moximas; Exaltation with Cayuvava, San-Joaquin, Concepcion, Saint-Simon
and Saint-Martin Baures and the tribes, and finally, with Magdalena
Itonama.

It seems, however, that the conversion of these savage nations was not made without cost the lives
of some religious [1]; but it never did weaken the evidence of the Jesuits, who persisted in their
purpose to submit the entire province.

In 1742, the Portuguese adventurers Saint-Paul, who occupied the province of Mato Grosso, made
his first expedition down the river or Guaporé Itenes. So it was when Manuel Lima, accompanied by five
Indians, three mulatto and black, in a canoe down the rivers Guaporé, Mamore, Madeira and Marañon
to the town of order [1].

Little more or less around the same time, calculating the Jesuits the importance of navigation
of rivers, had established the mission of Saint-Simon, Guaporé very immediate, and later, in
1743, the Santa-Rosa, in the same place where it is today Fort Beira
belonging to the Brazilian, ie on the right bank of the river Itenes,
but jealous the Portuguese of such an undertaking, espulsaron the
Jesuits in 1752 [2], under the pretext of that they were blocking
the way on their own property, and Don Antonio Rolin, to seize definitely
the domain of the river, he built the fortress there is today.

After all this, the first care of the monks was reinforcing the existence of missions, introducing
all possible improvements, to this end, Santa-Cruz trageron many cattle, encouraged local people
to farm work; perfected tected, already in practice among Baures, taught all kinds of handicrafts,
and multiplied religious ceremonies and to give them a range of pleasant rest to the workers. Enseñáronles
music and to play all the European instruments, taking also some
parts those used in the country before his arrival.

Created many jobs for the grant award of them, both good conduct, and industrial developments.


It had been to Bettina one of her pleasures of the finest epicurean flavour to reflect that
she had never had any brief and superficial knowledge of England, as she had never been to
the country at all in those earlier years, when her knowledge of places must necessarily have
been always the incomplete one of either a schoolgirl traveller or a schoolgirl resident, whose
views were limited by the walls of restriction built around her.

If relations of the usual ease and friendliness had existed between Lady Anstruthers and her
family, Bettina would, doubtless, have known her sister's adopted country well. It would have
been a thing so natural as to be almost inevitable, that she would have crossed the Channel
to spend her holidays at Stornham. As matters had stood, however, the child herself, in the
days when she had been a child, had had most definite private views on the subject of visits
to England. She had made up her young mind absolutely that she would not, if it were decently
possible to avoid it, set her foot upon English soil until she was old enough and strong enough
to carry out what had been at first her passionately romantic plans for discovering and facing
the truth of the reason for the apparent change in Rosy. When she went to England, she would
go to Rosy. As she had grown older, having in the course of education and travel seen most
Continental countries, she had liked to think that she had saved, put aside for less hasty
consumption and more delicate appreciation of flavours, as it were, the country she was conscious
she cared for most.

"It is England we love, we Americans," she had said to her father. "What could be more natural?
We belong to it--it belongs to us. I could never be convinced that the old tie of blood does
not count. All nationalities have come to us since we became a nation, but most of us in the
beginning came from England. We are touching about it, too. We trifle with France and labour
with Germany, we sentimentalise over Italy and ecstacise over Spain--but England we love. How
it moves us when we go to it, how we gush if we are simple and effusive, how we are stirred
imaginatively if we are of the perceptive class. I have heard the commonest little half-educated
woman say the prettiest, clumsy, emotional things about what she has seen there. A New England
schoolma'am, who has made a Cook's tour, will almost have tears in her voice as she wanders
on with her commonplaces about hawthorn hedges and thatched cottages and white or red farms.
Why are we not unconsciously pathetic about German cottages and Italian villas? Because we
have not, in centuries past, had the habit of being born in them. It is only an English cottage
and an English lane, whether white with hawthorn blossoms or bare with winter, that wakes in
us that little yearning, grovelling tenderness that is so sweet. It is only nature calling
us home."

Mrs. Worthington came in during the course of the morning to find her standing before her window
looking out at the Thames, the Embankment, the hansom cabs themselves, with an absolutely serious
absorption. This changed to a smile as she turned to greet her.

"I am delighted," she said. "I could scarcely tell you how much. The impression is all new
and I am excited a little by everything. I am so intensely glad that I have saved it so long
and that I have known it only as part of literature. I am even charmed that it rains, and that
the cabmen's mackintoshes are shining and wet." She drew forward a chair, and Mrs. Worthington
sat down, looking at her with involuntary admiration.

"You look as if you were delighted," she said. "Your eyes--you have amazing eyes, Betty! I
am trying to picture to myself what Lady Anstruthers will feel when she sees you. What were
you like when she married?"

Bettina sat down, smiling and looking, indeed, quite incredibly lovely. She was capable of
a warmth and a sweetness which were as embracing as other qualities she possessed were powerful.

"I was eight years old," she said. "I was a rude little girl, with long legs and a high, determined
voice. I know I was rude. I remember answering back."

"I seem to have heard that you did not like your brother-in-law, and that you were opposed
to the marriage."

"Imagine the undisciplined audacity of a child of eight 'opposing' the marriage of her grown-up
sister. I was quite capable of it. You see in those days we had not been trained at all (one
had only been allowed tremendous liberty), and interfered conversationally with one's elders
and betters at any moment. I was an American little girl, and American little girls were really--they
really were!" with a laugh, whose musical sound was after all wholly non-committal.

"You did not treat Sir Nigel Anstruthers as one of your betters."

"He was one of my elders, at all events, and becomingness of bearing should have taught me
to hold my little tongue. I am giving some thought now to the kind of thing I must invent as
a suitable apology when I find him a really delightful person, full of virtues and accomplishments.
Perhaps he has a horror of me."

"I should like to be present at your first meeting," Mrs. Worthington reflected. "You are going
down to Stornham to-morrow?"

"That is my plan. When I write to you on my arrival, I will tell you if I encountered the horror."
Then, with a swift change of subject and a lifting of her slender, velvet line of eyebrow,
"I am only deploring that I have not time to visit the Tower."

Mrs. Worthington was betrayed into a momentary glance of uncertainty, almost verging in its
significance on a gasp.

"The Tower? Of London? Dear Betty!"

Bettina's laugh was mellow with revelation.

"Ah!" she said. "You don't know my point of view; it's plain enough. You see, when I delight
in these things, I think I delight most in my delight in them. It means that I am almost having
the kind of feeling the fresh American souls had who landed here thirty years ago and revelled
in the resemblance to Dickens's characters they met with in the streets, and were historically
thrilled by the places where people's heads were chopped off. "What have you done, unfortunate, so that The
gods punish you? "I've taught the mortals do not think about death," answered Prometheus. "And
how did you get?" "I have made known the blind hope."

And for thousands of years ruled the world the beneficent god and comforting the dark hero
had given humans, paying this generosity with the torment of his heart torn by the eagle, "winged
dog Zeus." She drove the herds of men arms, she had fluttered to the bows of the discoverers,
she moved with her step stay inside where meditate silence scientists and artists, she led the eager
crowds welfare and comprehensive site that is uprooting of one hemisphere to go to be replanted
on the other.

Fernando saw it, saw it coming, with their eyes closed, above the blue sea, as a gold bubble
detached from the sun, like a rag finally stop light on edge of the
bow, like the divine images that decorated the ships of the first
Argonauts.

Their wings were stretched in the ether as majestic sails concave,
his tunic arremolinábase ago in harmonious folds, impelled by the
wind.

Was equal to the Victory of Samothrace, and well as to her head was
missing.

For this just to know Ojeda. She does not think she has no eyes ...

It was the hope, blind hope that with the advancement of his torso pointed south.

III

After lunch, passengers heard Goethe sound like the band forward with sleepy remoteness gives the
vastness of the ocean to all the vibrations.

- Van to vaccinate
the third - said Maltrana, always aware of what happened on the ship.

They were still off the island, skirting its rugged mountains, ancient
stone surge eruptions arrivals to the sea.

Down the slopes, as sheep in the flock, white houses, medium some of them hidden in the folds of
green shades. Above the heights was from the snow cap of Mount Teide as a curious head, hiding
or appearing as the ship going near or far from the coast.

Maltrana could not keep quiet in the winter garden sipping coffee with Fernando. Something extraordinary
happened on board without his presence.

- Do you think we'll see people in third?

... Should be interesting.

They descended the stairs two floors, and leaving the castle esplanade in central viéronse fore,
at the foot of the foremast. Under the big awning that shaded this space aglomerábase the stench
of a sweaty crowd. The ship's doctor and several assistants, all
blouses white, occupied the center next to a table laden with kits.

And the music went migrants in an endless row, all with a bare arm that presented the Lancer of cattle.
The first officer, assisted by police aides, organized the parade, ensuring that everyone, after
rolling up his arm with the other hand submit the role of its passage.

The

act of vaccination was both a recount. Al from Tenerife, the last leg of old world, began the great
journey, one had to enter the ship to America, and police needed to know the number of people
who were on board. The sailors roamed the cockpit, the dark passageways, cellars, to the far
corners in search hidden passenger pushing the fugitives who sought to avoid this operation.

German officials called each time to give orders to an employee of the police station fat man
and white mustache that was expressed in different languages, from
one to another with amazing ease.

Maltrana and he was greeted warmly.

- That's Carmelo - Ojeda said - one of our compatriots. Speaks all languages ​​of Europe; in
addition to Arabic, and I think a little Japanese.

And with all his wisdom here you have it earning a few frames, no
other satisfaction than hold a uniform and cap migrants be called
official.

I look every day in his office, which is below provided with the
light on, and we chatted about what happens on the ship.

What a man! Wherever you go, he studied in Manchester, all by himself, going through the port
from ship to ship and telling any seafarer who was bored: "Let's take a paragraph in your language,
mate."

As he spoke Isidro of women and children of his friend, Andalusians
transplanted to Hamburg and cash shortages thereof, which forced him
to look between the rich passengers one that would entertain the leisure
of the voyage studying languages ​​shouted Don Carmelo with the accent
of his homeland:

- Too God PAPE er hand!, You look good!

And he repeated the order in Italian, French, Portuguese and Arabic.

Men had marched, and were now women, with a squad of kids, the that presented themselves to
receive the vaccination. Went to the doctor with brawny arms the whiteness and firmness of the flesh
North; fatty arms on the sinking operators fingers, arms round amber, similar to those of women
by Titian but they occupied in the upper part a dark triangle of filthy dirt.

Women fought to uncover the sleeves of the chemise or thick elastic and in this struggle, they opened
the chest, showing scapulars and medals on flacideces of motherhood.

Arab female, brown and bony, were almost naked under his barons scratched, the thick Neapolitan,
hair disheveled and eyes of coal, returned to bodice with tranquil immodesty the exuberance
hoppers emerged to unbutton, the Castilian angular retinto oily hair combed as virgins Pre-Raphaelites,
covered promptly his arm with triple lining and flushed away, shaking heap short bailarinesca
their petticoats transudates. Some kids bawling their mothers clutching, quivering dread to
see the white blouses operators, others with his hat in the neck, showing Ivorian smile teeth of
a wolf, who is vying for first would advance arm as if that were a party.

Maltrana explained to his friend, the order in which migrants were
divided.

The bow was for 'Latino' Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, French, Arabs, Jews of the South and to Egyptians.
No one could guess the latter Latino people, but it had the police
box.

In the stern was crowded other nations: Germans, Russians and Jews, many Jews from diverse backgrounds,
Poles, galitzianos, Ruthenians, Moscow and Balkan cooking aside,
to the concerns and rites of their religion.

The Israelites had meat slaughtered by the Rabbis of Hamburg. The bustling latinidad enjoyed the
privilege on the other castes to drink wine with meals twice a week
and make chocolate at dawn twice, instead of regular coffee.

The Lamentations of Carmelo, who swore to himself with great fanfare,
interrupted Maltrana.

- Cursed be my gun!

Me and I missed that trip hisiésemos er no surprises. But comrade, there is no way to get rid
of these people! ...

Exchanged a few words in German with the first officer then shouted at Spanish waiters they were
serving "Latinos'

- To see these lads Bueno, pa bring them here!

Advanced six young men, bareheaded, ragged clothes and his feet in
broken or frayed espadrilles shoes.

- Moo do you have no ticket and
you have got here without MA or ma bustles, as if this Juesas the
house and toos?

What do you think this is going to quear craving?

... You, what you HERE?

And the six bustles were answering the interrogation of Mr. Carmelo. One was from Tenerife and
the remainder came from Andalusia and Galicia. Had been made secretly in several ships, and put
them on the ground to reach the Canaries.

And a cache search again in the cellar of another boat!

... So get thinking, be that as it may, where they had proposed. The six wanted to go to Buenos Aires,
and as beasts humble, resigned in advance to blows they believed
deserved, lowered their heads happy with his misfortune if they could
reach the end trip.

Don Carmelo spoke quietly with the first officer.

- Okay - said solemnly -.

But as no one comes here without a ticket and the ship can no space
backwards for you, going to swimming golveros Tenerife.

The island is there near.

He pointed to the coast was seen in the distance between the ship's
rail and the edge of the awning.

The officer was stroking the beard impassive as the interpreter translated his orders. The women
opened their eyes in astonishment and terror.

- To place a pan escaleriya pa that more fasiliá - Carmelo ordered.

The waiter obeyed him, placing a small ladder against the side, while the interpreter repeated
the order. "The water boys! And one remojonsito nothing more. "

The older bustles with his head still low, between believers and terrified, wondering that this
order could be true but also doubting that it was all a joke, used
to hardness and penalties on ships that had served as a refuge.

One that was almost a child dared to look over the railing, with eyes of fear appreciating the
enormous distance which lay between the ship and shore.

- I do not
want!

... Do not want to die ... I want to go to Buenos Aires! Mother! ... Mammy! ...

And he dropped to the ground moaning, kicking their legs to repel them from talking. Began sighs
and exclamations from the women's groups. Don Carmelo looked at the first official that was
stroking his beard.

- Bueno, children, will Pá later. At night you may go swimming. Meanwhile, that you vaccinate
and then eat ... A look at some old pants Bueno pa these boys, if
not go teaching the vergüensas the passage ... But it is agreed eh,
boys? at night I marcharéis swimming.

Suddenly relieved, the bustles were carried away by the sailors, who
pushed roughly, accepting the deal with humility and gratitude.

-
Be strong - Carmelo said the two friends by putting a fierce gesture
-.

If not were so, too er ship would fill with people without passage. Four will go to the machines,
provided Farta hasen stokers, and two smaller ones will help the Maid of the covers. Could disembark
in Rio de Janeiro. But er commander is Bueno, and insurance to the
yevaremos Buenos Aires.

The crooks will get away with it.

The music continued to play and resumed the parade of bare arms to the group white blouses.

Ojeda was impressed by the previous scene. He seemed to hear the cries of the lad still kicking
on the cover: "I do not want to die! I want to go to Buenos Aires !...». The tramp ports had the
same enthusiasm that he and almost everyone who lived in the upper
decks.

Dozing between the bales and barrels of a dock, had also seen the winged goddess without head,
he felt the caress of hope. And there they marched all, facing nostalgia of memory or the needs
of the present, scrambled, confused, matched by common illusion ... Buenos Aires! What a powerful magic
of this name, which was run the miserable, and starving mice to hide in the bowels of the ship!
...

Maltrana grew impatient at the monotony of the parade.

- After they
vaccinate the stern, less clean and presentable people that "Latino"
with long hair and sheepskin coats.

Up will be better.

They went to the top of the vessel, the cover of the boats, seeking the shade of an awning and
two free chairs to relax in solitude imbued with light blue. Most of the passage preferred to stay
down, a refugee in the soft twilight of the promenade deck.

Maltrana greeted a lady who was reading lying on a long couch, back on a cushion showing between
the flower and ruffled their snowy faldamenta startup clad legs white silk and high heels shoes.
Fernando, warned by the side of the companion noticed his hair, dark-blond, collected in the
form of helmet, in her eyes and trembling like drops of sea water, which rose briefly in the
book to look at him with quiet firmness, in the white of her neck, a whiteness of crumb of bread
lightly golden by the sun and sea breeze.

- Is the U.S., the lady who come near our table - muttered Isidro -. Speak Low people, just
shaking hands with some old board, shun the treatment of others ... I am the only man who
changes the greeting, but when I speak it pretends not to understand me ... And yet, I guess
it a cheerful and manly: You must be a pleasant companion; there is more to do with how funny smiles.
Dimples as cuckoos What you are near the mouth!, How his velvety eyes! ... But there is no trust
between people still on board; it looks like everybody to visit.

They sat at some distance from the U.S. and it came back down on the eyes book, swaying in his chair
to ignore the presence of the newcomers.

They had before them the blue of the ocean, smooth, dense, without a wrinkle on the bottom, at
the Stern, a triangle of shadow that clouded the horizon, a kind of gray cloud and pyramidal
which was the island ... Absolute quiet ... Sitting in the middle of the cover, there could see
foam that swirled up speed against the flanks of the ship.

From this point his eyes covered only the second term, namely the calm sea, which seemed covered
with a transparent and transparent crust, a crust of thick blue reflecting glass and pasty depth.
But for the black tufts that escaped from the chimney, to be floating in the calm sultry afternoon,
they would have believed that the ship not going ... And the island is always in sight, as the country
legends delighted that appear to move behind the steps of the run.

The silence of siesta extended its overwhelming peace on the deck flooded with light. Under Awnings
are perceived slight snoring, rhythmic breaths, backs turned to the
outside on the long chairs, heads embedded in pillows or resting on
the back, with eyes closed and mouth open to the freshness of the
shade.

The floor creaked in more heated, under the slow pace of a passerby. They went up the echoes
of music, distant numb, as if from the depths of the sea. They came from the other side of the fireplace
cries of children and crash of timber, revealing the various incidents of a sports game. The
afternoon sun caught fire across the West with blinding rain.

- Why call this the "Dark Sea"? - Maltrana said that he could not
remain silent long time.

These words aroused in both the memory of past readings. Ojeda thought of his drama poetic conquerors
whose preparation had been obliged to consider the saga of the sailors who discovered the wilderness.
Isidro remembered the work done when he was a mercenary in the literature, when he was in
pursuit of notes in libraries and file for the making of a book he would sign after a character
eager to join in an academy.

- It is always scary what we ignore - said Ojeda -. A cloud on the horizon or more sunless days
Dark enough to call a sea in which advanced with hesitation, fearing the surprises of the mystery
and keep track of costs. I confess that the geography of Dark Sea before the compass made possible
the long explorations, is a geography I love and rejuvenate, something
like those fairy tales that delight us as a perfume wilted flowers
to evoke the first impressions of childhood.

And the two listed in animated conversation all attempts of men from remote centuries, to break
the mystery of the Dark Sea.

The Carthaginian sailors down south along the coast of Africa, bringing, after a journey of several
years, elephant tusks suspended from the temples, colorful ornaments, skins of hairy men with
tails that had to be large orangutan wraps. And the Senate gave such value to such discoveries,
he kept as a state secret the route of the sailors, seeing distant
lands a safe refuge for his people if ill-fated war necessitated the
expatriation.

In this sea of ​​darkness, beyond the Pillars of Hercules, had placed Homer and Hesiod the Elysee,
the abode of the blessed, the Gorgons, the land of eternal spring, and the Hesperides, with
their golden apples, guarded by a dragon of fire. Arab sailors were then which were thrown into
the sea of ​​darkness, and geographers populated the mystery of marine wilderness poetic inventions,
discoveries garnishing the same as a tale from the Arabian Nights. The Emir spoke Edrisi Islands Vac-uac,
ultimately the world in the twelfth century by the East: islands so abundant in wealth, which
monkeys and dogs wore gold collars. A tree, which had large forests, was its name to the islands, the
uac-uac, so called because crying or barking with similar sounds
anyone who first put foot on the archipelago.

And this tree was on the tip of its branches, first, abundant flowers, and then instead of fruit,
beautiful girls, beauties virgins who were eligible for export to the harems.

For the West had advanced Almagrurinos siblings, eight neighboring Moorish Lisbon, long before
1147 - the year in which the Muslims were expelled from the city - joined the supplies needed
for a long journey, "not wanting to return without penetrating to the end Dark Sea. " Just discovered
the island of "bitter rams' and the island of" men red ', but were forced to turn to Lisbon lacking
food, since they could not eat bad taste by the rams of the discovered lands. As for the red
men were a tall, reddish skin and "non-thick hair, but long to shoulder";
features that made many wonder if the brothers would come to play
Almagrurinos effectively on an island east of America.

While geography Arab land raised up the Dark Sea, the Christian legend the islands peopled with
no less wonderful. When the Moors invaded the Iberian Peninsula defeating Roderick King, a
crowd of Christians, leading to its front seven bishops, had board, to flee into the ocean until
he found an island where he founded seven cities. Many Portuguese navigators carried away
by the storm, had gone to this island where they were magnificently treated by people who
spoke the same language and had churches. But just trying to get back their land, was opposed
by the inhabitants, eager to be on guard secret the existence of the "Island of Seven Cities.
Some who had managed to return sands taught those beaches, which were almost pure gold. But
at the arming expeditions to go to their discovery, they never guessed right with the road.

Another island, St. Brendan or St. Borombón, employed people at sea
for several centuries; ghost island and everyone saw that no one came
to set foot.

St. Brendan, Abbot Scotland the sixth century, which came to lead three thousand monks, embarked
with his disciple San Maclovio to explore the ocean in search of some islands that had the delights
of paradise and were inhabited by infidels. While browsing, Christmas Day, the saint prays to
God allows you to find land where their land to say Mass with due pomp, and immediately comes
an island to the foam that lifts his hat. Finished the divine, when San Borombón back to the
ship with his acolytes, the land is instantly immersed in waters. It was a monstrous whale by order
of the Lord had given to this service.

After wandering for years by the Ocean landed on an island, and found, lying in a grave, the corpse
of a giant. The two holy monks raised, owe him interesting conversations, and so reasonable and
well educated shown, which eventually becomes to Christianity and baptized. But on the fifteenth
day the giant gets tired of life, wishes death to enjoy the benefits of conversion entering heaven,
and asks politely to die again, reasonable request that access to the saints. And then no
mortal is able to penetrate on the island of San Borombón. Some seamen Canaries are very close
in their navigation, there are those who come to tie their boats
in trees from the shore, among the remains of ships covered by sand,
but always comes an unexpected storm, an earthquake, the sea throws
them away. And centuries passed no one ever set foot on its shores.
The people of Tenerife showed clearly the at certain times of the
year and presented to the authorities claiming hundreds of witnesses
configuration: two big mountains with a green valley in the center.

-
America was discovered by a whole - said Ojeda - where neighbors still
sent Tenerife expeditions to the coast, these waters in search of
the famous San Borombón land. And the island, which could be seen
perfectly from the top of the mountains, in difuminábase horizon and
just getting lost when someone was going to meet on a ship. There
were many expeditions, some paid by the rulers of the island, other
individuals, but all without success, and people increasingly convinced
of the existence of San Borombón, blamed these failures to the inability
of the expedition before renouncing the charm of the marvelous. Most
maps of the time placed this island near the Canaries and eighty years
before the independence of the colonies, when Spanish America was
already thinking to declare adult, Tenerife still left an expedition
led by a gentleman respectable, and as it was a mysterious company,
were two brothers on his ship. Some phantom island believed that this
was the place of earthly paradise where they live in bliss Elijah
and Enoch eternal ... The holy poetry always take advantage of popular
fiction, and why Tasso, to love the knight Rinaldo in the magic garden
of Armida, the placed on an island in the Canaries, no doubt recalling
the tradition of St. Borombón. To do so would be like forcing a creature accustomed only to darkness, to stare at the
blazing sun. To have burst upon her with the old impetuous, candid fondness would have been
to frighten and shock her as if with something bordering on indecency. She could not have stood
it; perhaps such fondness was so remote from her in these days that she had even ceased to
be able to understand it.

"Where are your little girls?" Bettina asked, remembering that there had been notice given
of the advent of two girl babies.

"They died," Lady Anstruthers answered unemotionally. "They both died before they were a year
old. There is only Ughtred."

Betty glanced at the boy and saw a small flame of red creep up on his cheek. Instinctively
she knew what it meant, and she put out her hand and lightly touched his shoulder.

"I hope you'll like me, Ughtred," she said.

He almost started at the sound of her voice, but when he turned his face towards her he only
grew redder, and looked awkward without answering. His manner was that of a boy who was unused
to the amenities of polite society, and who was only made shy by them.

Without warning, a moment or so later, Bettina stopped in the middle of the avenue, and looked
up at the arching giant branches of the trees which had reached out from one side to the other,
as if to clasp hands or encompass an interlacing embrace. As far as the eye reached, they did
this, and the beholder stood as in a high stately pergola, with breaks of deep azure sky between.
Several mellow, cawing rooks were floating solemnly beneath or above the branches, now wand
then settling in some highest one or disappearing in the thick greenness.

Lady Anstruthers stopped when her sister did so, and glanced at her in vague inquiry. It was
plain that she had outlived even her sense of the beauty surrounding her.

"What are you looking at, Betty?" she asked.

"At all of it," Betty answered. "It is so wonderful."

"She likes it," said Ughtred, and then rather slunk a step behind his mother, as if he were
ashamed of himself.

"The house is just beyond those trees," said Lady Anstruthers.

They came in full view of it three minutes later. When she saw it, Betty uttered an exclamation
and stopped again to enjoy effects.

"She likes that, too," said Ughtred, and, although he said it sheepishly, there was imperfectly
concealed beneath the awkwardness a pleasure in the fact.

"Do you?" asked Rosalie, with her small, painful smile.

Betty laughed.

"It is too picturesque, in its special way, to be quite credible," she said.

"I thought that when I first saw it," said Rosy.

"Don't you think so, now?"

"Well," was the rather uncertain reply, "as Nigel says, there's not much good in a place that
is falling to pieces."

"Why let it fall to pieces?" Betty put it to her with impartial promptness.

"We haven't money enough to hold it together," resignedly.

As they climbed the low, broad, lichen-blotched steps, whose broken stone balustrades were
almost hidden in clutching, untrimmed ivy, Betty felt them to be almost incredible, too. The
uneven stones of the terrace the steps mounted to were lichen-blotched and broken also. Tufts
of green growths had forced themselves between the flags, and added an untidy beauty. The ivy
tossed in branches over the red roof and walls of the house. It had been left unclipped, until
it was rather an endlessly clambering tree than a creeper. The hall they entered had the beauty
of spacious form and good, old oaken panelling. There were deep window seats and an ancient
high-backed settle or so, and a massive table by the fireless hearth. But there were no pictures
in places where pictures had evidently once hung, and the only coverings on the stone floor
were the faded remnants of a central rug and a worn tiger skin, the head almost bald and a
glass eye knocked out.

Bettina took in the unpromising details without a quiver of the extravagant lashes. These,
indeed, and the eyes pertaining to them, seemed rather to sweep the fine roof, and a certain
minstrel's gallery and staircase, than which nothing could have been much finer, with the look
of an appreciative admirer of architectural features and old oak. She had not journeyed to
Stornham Court with the intention of disturbing Rosy, or of being herself obviously disturbed.
She had come to observe situations and rearrange them with that intelligence of which unconsidered
emotion or exclamation form no part.

"It is the first old English house I have seen," she said, with a sigh of pleasure. "I am so
glad, Rosy--I am so glad that it is yours."

She put a hand on each of Rosy's thin shoulders--she felt sharply defined bones as she did
so--and bent to kiss her. It was the natural affectionate expression of her feeling, but tears
started to Rosy's eyes, and the boy Ughtred, who had sat down in a window seat, turned red
again, and shifted in his place.

"Oh, Betty!" was Rosy's faint nervous exclamation, "you seem so beautiful and--so--so strange--that
you frighten me."

Betty laughed with the softest possible cheerfulness, shaking her a little.

"I shall not seem strange long," she said, "after I have stayed with you a few weeks, if you
will let me stay with you."

"Let you! Let you!" in a sort of gasp.

Poor little Lady Anstruthers sank on to a settle and began to cry again. It was plain that
she always cried when things occurred. Ughtred's speech from his window seat testified at once
to that.

"Don't cry, mother," he said. "You know how we've talked that over together. It's her nerves,"
he explained to Bettina. "We know it only makes things worse, but she can't stop it."

Bettina sat on the settle, too. She herself was not then aware of the wonderful feeling the
poor little spare figure experienced, as her softly strong young arms curved about it. She
was only aware that she herself felt that this was a heart-breaking thing, and that she must
not--MUST not let it be seen how much she recognised its woefulness. This was pretty, fair
Rosy, who had never done a harm in her happy life--this forlorn thing was her Rosy.

"Never mind," she said, half laughing again. "I rather want to cry myself, and I am stronger
than she is. I am immensely strong."

"Yes! Yes!" said Lady Anstruthers, wiping her eyes, and making a tremendous effort at self-respecting
composure. "You are strong. I have grown so weak in--well, in every way. Betty, I'm afraid
this is a poor welcome. You see--I'm afraid you'll find it all so different from--from New York."

"I wanted to find it different," said Betty.

"But--but--I mean--you know----" Lady Anstruthers turned helplessly to the boy. Bettina was
struck with the painful truth that she looked even silly as she turned to him. "Ughtred--tell
her," she ended, and hung her head.

Ughtred had got down at once from his seat and limped forward. His unprepossessing face looked
as if he pulled his childishness together with an unchildish effort.

"She means," he said, in his awkward way, "that she doesn't know how to make you comfortable.
The rooms are all so shabby--everything is so shabby. Perhaps you won't stay when you see."

Bettina perceptibly increased the firmness of her hold on her sister's body. It was as if she
drew it nearer to her side in a kind of taking possession. 

Jaime was not behind it. Remained motionless in the solitude of the pine, insensible to everything
you surroundings, as a legendary hero under a spell. Then he ran a hand through the face, as
if awakened by coordinating their ideas.

Dolíanle as a regret his bold words, the shock of Margalida, the career of terror that the interview
was over. What nonsense yours! ... Was the result of his trip to the city, return to civilized life
that had upset his calm lonely, waking passions of the past, the conversation of the young
soldiers, who lived with the thought placed on the woman ... But no, he was sorry for his action.
What mattered was that Margalida knew what he had so often thought vaguely in the isolation
of the tower without able to precisely to your wishes.

He went his way slowly, not reaching the Mallorquí Can family.

Margalida he joined his mother and brother. He watched from a height, when the group walked Now
for the valley towards the farm.

Febrer twisted his way, avoiding Can Mallorquí approach. He went to the Pirate's Tower, but when I
got near it went his way, not stopping until the sea.

Rocky coast, which seemed to cut peak on the water, was shaken by the onslaught of them for centuries.
The waves, as angry blue bulls, bumped from foaming rage against the rock, opening concave
hollows, caves that extended deep into above in the form of vertical cracks. This secular work was
gnawing at the coast, snatching its stone shell, leaf by leaf. Fragments Despegábanse it big
as walls. Separábanse first forming an imperceptible slit, which grew larger with the course ever.
The natural wall leaned years and years on the waves that beat incessantly base, until, lost
the center of gravity, a stormy night as derrumbábase the shade of
a citadel under siege, shedding blocks, filling the sea of ​​new obstacles,
soon covered with slimy vegetation, whose entanglements boiled foams
and sizzling fish scales.

Febres was to sit on the edge of a large boulder advanced, a fragment of rock detached of the
coast that was leaning precariously on the rocks. His fatalism led him to sit there. Hopefully,
the disaster was expected at the time, and his body dragged by the
great crash, disappear into the sea, with the sarcophagus is mass
equal to the pyramid of Pharaoh ... For what lay ahead in life!

...

The setting sun, before hiding, came to a hole in the stormy sky, the clouds torn. It was a
bloody field, a host of animated purple with shades of fire the immensity of the sea. The black masses
of vapor that blocked the horizon edged scarlet. On the dark green
water an uneasy triangle spread of flames.

Enrojecióse the foam of the waves and the coast appeared briefly in boiling lava.

In the glow of this light storm, Jaime stared at his feet by throwing water fro their jets roaring in
the hollows of the rocks, bellowing and writhing with foaming of cholera in the winding streets of
the pitfalls. At the bottom of this mass greenish lit with slides of opal by the sun, clinging to
the rocks looked strange vegetation, tiny forest, in which animals moved about sticky fronds
of fantastic shapes, rampant and rapid or awkward and sedentary, with heavy gray and red armor,
bristling with defenses, armed tongs, spears and horns, giving hunting and chasing each other beings weaker
than passed like exhalations, shining in the speed of flight transparency
glass.

Febrer felt dwarfed by loneliness. Lost faith in their human significance, we considered Like
one of those little monsters that were stirring in the vegetations of the abyss. Maybe even less.
Those animals were armed for life, could be maintained by own strength, without knowing the disappointments,
humiliations and sorrows that afflicted him. The sea! ... His greatness, insensible for men,
cruel and relentless in his anger, Febrer overwhelmed, awakening in his memory a host of ideas
that perhaps were new, but he accepted them as vague memories of
a previous life as something that had already thought, not knowing
where or when.

A shiver of respect, devotion instinctively went for him, making him forget the event bit before
plunging in religious awe. The sea! ... Thought, not knowing why, in the most remote ancestors of humanity,
the first men, miserable, barely out the original animal, martyred and repelled from everywhere
by Nature hostile in its exuberance, as the young and vigorous body
cancels or out the parasites strive to live off your body.

On the coast, to the divine mystery, green and great, man must have had their best moments
of rest. The water came within the first gods. Contemplating the motion of the water and lulled
by the murmur, the man must have felt he was born in something new and powerful: a soul. The sea! ...
Mysterious organisms that inhabit it also living, such as land, subject to the tyranny of the
medium, still in its early existence, repeated through the centuries, as if they were always
the same being. Also dead sent there. The strong pursuit of the weak, and were in turn eaten by
others powerful, the same story from their remote predecessors in the warm waters of the world
still in training. All the same, repeated over hundreds of millions of years. A monster from prehistoric
times to return to fishtail in the water present would find all parties, in the dark depths
and coastal shores, the very life and the same struggles who in his youth. The beast red armored
combat, armed with curved claws and pincers of torture, the ruthless warrior green underwater
caves, never had joined funny fish, weak light and moved the train of her gown in pink and silver
waters transparent. Their destination was devouring, be strong, and if you saw unarmed, with
defenses broken without protest delivered to misfortune and destruction. The death rather
than abdicate its origin, the fate of noble birth! For there was strong on the ground and Tues
satisfactions and life outside of their environment. They were slaves to their own greatness:
the breed brought to them, with honors, unfortunately. And always be the same! ... The dead
were the only governing existence. The first people who started an action to formed live with
their actions the cage in which prisoners had to move successive generations.

The quiet mollusc was now at the bottom of the water, clinging to the rocks as dark buttons,
guardians seemed divine beings in their stupid stillness of the mystery of creation. Admirábalos August
and large like the monsters who worship the savage peoples by immobility, and guess whose quietism
believe the majesty of the gods. Febrer remembered his jokes from other times, on nights of
revelry, with the plates of fresh oysters the great restaurants of Paris. Its elegant companions thought
him crazy to hear the crazy thoughts that suggested the wine, the view of the seafood and the memory
of certain readings fragmented and fast from his youth. "We will eat our grandparents, like
happy cannibals who we are.

"

The oyster was one of the first signs of life on the planet, one of the primitive forms of
organic matter, floating still uncertain and disoriented in its evolution, on the immensity
of the waters. The friendly and mono only had slandered the importance of cousin who has not
made a career, a relative unfortunate and ridiculous that is left at the door pretending to ignore
her family name, denying the greeting. The snail was our venerable grandfather, the head of the house,
the creator of the dynasty, the predecessor loaded with a nobility of millions of centuries
... These ideas Febrer resurrected now with the freshness indisputable truths, looking at the motionless
and rudimentary beings locked in its shell, clinging to the rocks
below your feet, deep green glass trembling among the reefs.

Mankind was true to its origin. No swearing these venerable traditions of ancestors that seemed asleep
in the vast catacombs of the sea. Men free because they believe move from side to side on the
planet, because your body is mounted on two columns agile and articulated that allow you to
jump on the floor with the mechanism of step ... Error! A illusion of many that falsehood happy
life, making bearable the poverty and its small! Febrer was convinced that everyone is born
sandwiched between two valves prejudice, unscrupulous and pride, inherited from those who
preceded us in life, and more than men are shaken, never get to pull in the same rock where vegetated
caught his predecessors. The activity, the incidents of life, independence of character, All
illusion!

Mollusk vanity attached to the rock dreams, and believes to be swimming by seas of the globe,
while their shells remain attached to the limestone! ...

All things were as they had been those who have gone before them, as would those who arrived
back. Changing forms, but the soul remained motionless and unchanging, as of those primitive
beings, eternal witnesses of the first beats of life in planet, and seemed more involved in the thick
of dreams. And it would be good. Were great efforts in vain to escape the fatal environment,
heritage of the medium the circle in which we move forcefully, until
it was death and other similar animals came to turn in the same arena,
believing free because they always had before his steps new space
race.

"The dead command," said Jaime once again in their thinking. It seemed impossible that men would
realize this great truth and are shaking in eternal night, thinking to new things in the glow
of illusions that arise daily, as there is the great deception sun
to join the infinite, which is dark and we find blue and radiant light
...

When Febrer thought this, the sun was hidden now.

The sea was almost black sky leaden gray, and the mist on the horizon lightning snaked down
to drink in waves. Jaime felt on his face and touch the wet hands of a few drops of rain. Would
set off a storm that lasted maybe all night. The lightning shone each closer. Rang a distant
roar, as if two opposing fleets were being shelling behind the curtain of mist on the horizon,
approaching to it. The gentle water slides, smooth as glass between the reef and the coast, began
to tremble with ripples eccentric raindrops.

Despite this, the solo did not budge.

Remained in the rock, feeling a dull irritation against fate, rebelling with all the harshness of
his character against the tyranny of the past. And why had to send the dead? ... Why darkened the
atmosphere with particles of his soul, like a bone dust, which settled on the brains of living
by imposing old ideas? ...

Febrer suddenly suffered a dazzling impression, as though he saw an extraordinary light ever. His brain
seemed to expand, spread, as a body of water that breaks the camel oppressor of stone. It was
at the same moment a flash of light colored pale sea and thunder burst over his head, shaking
with a horrid clatter echoes the vastness Seas and the hollows and ridges of the coast.

"No, do not send the dead, the dead do not govern." Jaime, like a new man mocked his thoughts
shortly before. Those primitive beasts that he saw between the rocks, and like all animals including
sea and land, suffered slavery the medium. Sent the dead on them because they did what they would do
their descendants. But man is a slave in the middle: is your partner and sometimes its owner.
Man is an entity of reason and progress, and can modify the environment according to their
convenience. Was his servant in the past, in remote ages, but to dominate in part to the nature
and power exploit it, tore the fatal kind of wrap that other beings are prisoners of creation.
What could I care about the environment in which he was born? One would think if he wanted another
...

Could not continue in his reflections. The storm had, exploded on him. The rain dripped the
edges of his hat and ran along his back. The night had come soon. In the light of lightning
could be seen the sea with the matte surface shaken by the Clash
of the rain.

Febrer went to the tower with all the lightness of his legs. He was, however, happy, with the
overwhelming joy of leaving a long imprisonment and the eyes do not see enough space for their
contained activity. He laughed without stopping in his career, and flashes of lightning was surprised
several times moving his right arm with one finger raised, while
shocked left hand on the bottom of the elbow, by a wave of popular
protest as little decent.

- Do what I want! - Shouting, taking pleasure
in hearing his own voice among the din of The Tempest -.

Neither dead nor alive send in me ... Take! ... For my noble ancestors! ... Take! ... To my
old ideas, for all Febrer! ...

Repeated several times with an unseemly gesture urchin joy. Suddenly he was involved at a red light
on his head and burst a cannon, as if the sea had just assumed a pulse of immense cataclysm.

-
Has fallen about - Febrer said referring to exhalation.

His thought, occupied by the memory of the Febrer, went to his ascending the commander Don
Priam. That explosion of thunder reminded him of the diabolical fighting hero Knight's Cross religious,
mocking God and the devil, who always made his sovereign will and as soon fought alongside his
men as he lived among the enemies of the Faith, as their quirks and
hobbies.

No, for he did not deny Febrer. She loved the brave commander, was the true ancestor, the best
of all, the rebel, the demon of the family.

Upon entering the tower lit light, wrapped in coarse wool haik of which served to their nocturnal
outings, and taking a book wanted to be distracted from his thoughts until Pepet dinner will
go up.

The storm seemed to be established on the island. Rain fell in the fields, making mudflats,
jumped on the slopes of roads, as overwhelmed ravines soaked the
mountains, and large sponges, the porosity of green pine trees and
bushes.

Rapid showed flashes of lightning instantly, like a dream vision, black sea with boiling foam,
flooded fields, which seemed full of fish of fire, brilliant trees under their aqueous layer.

In
the kitchen Can Mallorquí Margalida's suitors were a mass of sandals muddy bodies and smoldering
for the evaporation of wet clothes. Tonight courtship would be longer. Pep, paternal air,
was allowed to wait after atlots passing the time of courtship. I
felt sorry for those boys, forced to walk in the rain.
But for his uncanny sense of the responsibility he clearly had assumed in the days when he
wore pinafores, and which had brought him to her room to prepare her mind for what she would
find herself confronted with in the way of apparently unexplainable obstacles, there was a
strong likelihood that at the outset she might have found herself more than once dangerously
at a loss. Yes, she would have been at a loss, puzzled, perhaps greatly discouraged. She was
face to face with a complication so extraordinary.

That one man, through mere persistent steadiness in evil temper and domestic tyranny, should
have so broken the creatures of his household into abject submission and hopelessness, seemed
too incredible. Such a power appeared as remote from civilised existence in London and New
York as did that which had inflicted tortures in the dungeons of castles of old. Prisoners
in such dungeons could utter no cry which could reach the outside world; the prisoners at Stornham
Court, not four hours from Hyde Park Corner, could utter none the world could hear, or comprehend
if it heard it. Sheer lack of power to resist bound them hand and foot. And she, Betty Vanderpoel,
was here upon the spot, and, as far as she could understand, was being implored to take no
steps, to do nothing. The atmosphere in which she had spent her life, the world she had been
born into, had not made for fearfulness that one would be at any time defenceless against circumstances
and be obliged to submit to outrage. To be a Vanderpoel was, it was true, to be a shining mark
for envy as for admiration, but the fact removed obstacles as a rule, and to find one's self
standing before a situation with one's hands, figuratively speaking, tied, was new enough to
arouse unusual sensations. She recalled, with an ironic sense of bewilderment, as a sort of
material evidence of her own reality, the fact that not a week ago she had stepped on to English
soil from the gangway of a solid Atlantic liner. It aided her to resist the feeling that she
had been swept back into the Middle Ages.

"When he is angry," was one of the first questions she put to Ughtred, "what does he give as
his reason? He must profess to have a reason."

"When he gets in a rage he says it is because mother is silly and common, and I am badly brought
up. But we always know he wants money, and it makes him furious. He could kill us with rage."

"Oh!" said Betty. "I see."

"It began that time when he struck her. He said then that it was not decent that a woman who
was married should keep her own money. He made her give him almost everything she had, but
she wants to keep some for me. He tries to make her get more from grandfather, but she will
not write begging letters, and she won't give him what she is saving for me."

It was a simple and sordid enough explanation in one sense, and it was one of which Bettina
had known, not one parallel, but several. Having married to ensure himself power over unquestioned
resources, the man had felt himself disgustingly taken in, and avenged himself accordingly.
In him had been born the makings of a domestic tyrant who, even had he been favoured by fortune,
would have wreaked his humours upon the defenceless things made his property by ties of blood
and marriage, and who, being unfavoured, would do worse. Betty could see what the years had
held for Rosy, and how her weakness and timidity had been considered as positive assets. A
woman who will cry when she is bullied, may be counted upon to submit after she has cried.
Rosy had submitted up to a certain point and then, with the stubbornness of a weak creature,
had stood at timid bay for her young.

What Betty gathered was that, after the long and terrible illness which had followed Ughtred's
birth, she had risen from what had been so nearly her deathbed, prostrated in both mind and
body. Ughtred did not know all that he revealed when he touched upon the time which he said
his mother could not quite remember--when she had sat for months staring vacantly out of her
window, trying to recall something terrible which had happened, and which she wanted to tell
her mother, if the day ever came when she could write to her again. She had never remembered
clearly the details of the thing she had wanted to tell, and Nigel had insisted that her fancy
was part of her past delirium. He had said that at the beginning of her delirium she had attacked
and insulted his mother and himself but they had excused her because they realised afterwards
what the cause of her excitement had been. For a long time she had been too brokenly weak to
question or disbelieve, but, later she had vaguely known that he had been lying to her, though
she could not refute what he said. She recalled, in course of time, a horrible scene in which
all three of them had raved at each other, and she herself had shrieked and laughed and hurled
wild words at Nigel, and he had struck her. That she knew and never forgot. She had been ill
a year, her hair had fallen out, her skin had faded and she had begun to feel like a nervous,
tired old woman instead of a girl. Girlhood, with all the past, had become unreal and too far
away to be more than a dream. Nothing had remained real but Stornham and Nigel and the little
hunchbacked baby. "It was just that? Would spend
a long time before they were against them. Furthermore, the vessel passed far away ... Returned
to the den to continue their game of poker, or were on the cover the usual cliques, lying on
the couch talking, until the pitch of sleepiness I was getting hesitant on the way the cabin, to
continue the nap.

Ojeda and his companion, leaning on the railing, looking forward to
the silhouettes of the islands pointed out as clouds on the horizon
of serene blue.

- So much for Columbus - said Fernando -.

The admiral, who had always sailed westward, put on the third trip the bow to the South, seeking to
discover new lands for the part of Austro. But beyond these islands was afraid, and turned
the direction to follow the usual route. He astonished the heats of Ecuador believed that on to the
south would eventually burn their ships. Perhaps influenced his visionary credulity of legends
surrounding the then poor geography of the equator.

Recalled after incidents of its third discovery. The sun's rays were so intense, the Admiral, as
contained in his letters, he feared that vessels catch fire and people. Fell on the squadron
frequent squalls, but these showers of sticky warmth only served to make the heat tolerable for
a few hours. Columbus welcomed them as a relief Providence, believing that without them all
would have perished. Was ill, was disturbed by the disappearance from the skyline of the stars
that guided the navigators in the seas the northern hemisphere, and the emergence of other stars
that each voyage ignored were soaring in the sky.

Reborn in its report the views of the time about the equator and what was behind her, doctrines
learned in their vagrancy by convents and ports, talking with scientists and sailors.

For many in the hemisphere of the south was the earthly paradise. Ecuador, with its heat irresistible,
was "the gladiolus or igneous versatile knife" that had God among men and Paradise so that none
of the sons of Adam could return to it. The poets of antiquity and the Fathers of the Church they remembered
wonderful to fantasize about this part of the world completely ignored. Beyond Ecuador was the
land called "Mesa del Sol" by the sweetness of its climate and the generous abundance of their
products. Happy people lived in it that by not having to worry about the necessities of life
- for Nature, prodigal, I offered all with excess - dedicábanse the study of natural causes,
and especially of astrology. Arim, the 'city of philosophers, "was the center of the" Mesa del
Sol. "

In this part of the land, being the most noble, had to be forcibly Paradise. The stars strongly
influenced our lives. Everything was on the floor, not under its own goodness, but by "the
noble and happy influences of the stars are on him, "the universal cause of life. "A noble
sky corresponded noble land" and as the constellations of the hemisphere was ignored, as the science
of the time, "the largest, brightest, most noble and perfect, and therefore of greater virtue,
happiness and effective as of Aquilon ', hence under the glow should be necessarily the best
of the land, or Paradise.

The head is the noblest part of 'all things natural and artificial, the most decorated and better
workmanship, from which the influence of other members of the body. " And where was the head
of the earth? ... In the Austro ignored in the South, as does the tree that while his head is hidden
below, could not extend the branches, fruit and birds if the head ceases to send its nourishment
and strength. And the fire, the source of life, was born in the Austro be engendered in him,
and a fire barrier that stretched circumferentially in Ecuador prevented
the passage from one hemisphere to another.

The discoverer, alarmed by the unbearable heat that met him, saw in
them indisputable confirmation of the views of the learned men of
his time, and again the bow to the west, not daring to go further
in the Austro feared.

A big surprise awaited him. The world was round, like Ptolemy and others had believed. Could be
spherical in the northern hemisphere, where the wise men had only their studies, but this one
sailed hemisphere whose limits he had the "shape of a pear, it is round except where it is the
nipple, which is higher, or a ball with a woman's breast placed on
top, "and the end of this nipple was" part of the world's propinquity
to heaven.

"

Ships, continuing to the west, but it seemed plain sailing in an ocean and well, rose and rose, following
the back up of the extrusion of the planet. The Admiral recognized this increase in the fresh
air, become increasingly sensitive as advanced the West, although the ships follow the same
extent, and especially in the particular offered land and people. As the discoverer had moved closer
to the line igneous Ecuador, the sun was stronger, more land was burned and the inhabitants were
more black. In Cape Verde and Sierra Leone people came to the most extreme blackness and the
land seemed burned. And yet, to put forward the West, following the same latitude, cooling the
air, and the admiral was on the coast of Venezuela Island the Trinity, "temperance softest - in
his writings - with very green land and trees and beautiful, as in the gardens of Valencia
in April, and the people very nice height and almost white, more
cunning and more ingenuity than blacks, and not cowards.

"

All this was because the land and people were higher up, closer to the good regions of the air, on
the slopes of that gigantic nipple alter the roundness of the hemisphere austral. And the hypothesis
of Paradise, head of land, located in the Austro noble, became a certainty for the Admiral.
At the apex of the nipple was the former site of delight; and the
Orinoco, which sweetened the sea, amazing surfers with its huge sheet
was one of the four rivers descending from Paradise.

Fernando and his friend, who talked about these fantasies of Admiral
walking along the deck, stopped at the windows of the great hall.

The faint voice of the piano, played on muted attracted the curiosity of Isidro.

- Look, Fernando. German, wife of conductor, which exploits no people in the room. Near it is
your child ... What's playing? "Wagner? ... No, that I know, is Schubert: The king of the poplars.
See how the mouth moves.

Sing, but not hear well ... No, do not approach: we are going to scare the other day ... Well, you
go you well, good luck.

This last was said to see Ojeda, suddenly, as if due to a previous decision was separated from
him. Disappeared by the port door leading into the classrooms. Maltrana I saw pass between the
tables in the winter garden, occupied by a few passengers dormitantes. Then he entered the room
and sat near the piano, next to the little boy stubborn, which provided the prints of a large
volume of older person in thought, lulled by the music of his mother. That, noting the presence of
a man who listened eyes fixed on her, made a gesture of surprise
and disappointment, you winced, as if to leave the piano, but with
sudden resolution remained in his seat.

A slight blush greenish pallor of old bust.

- What Ojeda! - Isidro muttered looking glasses -. We will see what is to stop all this music.

He
felt no strength to continue walking along the deck. The heat had spread to people. All enjoyed
the freshness of the siesta, scantily clad, inside their cabins or
hurricanes found in the smoking room fan.

The ship pitched lazily, with long intervals of quiet, on the broad undulations a sea of ​​dense,
sunset, red as molten metal.

Not a breath stirred the the canvas cover, stretched from the rails to the roof as a rigid wall,
dark and burning.

Maltrana dropped into one of the many chairs that bore the label "Doctor Zurita and family,
"and there was in pleasant slumber, not knowing for sure whether he was asleep or awake. He could
hear the piano sound far, far away, like a tune of Lilliputians.

"Now is Wagner - thought -; I know why: Parsifal, "The Charm of Good Friday ... Now is Schubert,
the "Quintet of the Trout ". funny thing ... Now ... now ..."

And he could not recognize anything more, because left hear the music.

Sinking, sinking into a black hole, accompanied by the soft melody,
which was thinner the same as a thread ever tighter, until break and
be swallowed by silence.

Suddenly came to life when he felt a hand on his shoulder. He opened his eyes and saw the doctor
Zurita standing before him with a cigar in his mouth smiling.

- Get up, friend and take a leaf. Today has not been you by the tribute.

He offered his case filled with endless Havana cigars. It was three
o'clock.

The doctor had his short nap sleep routine, and being alone, wanted to chat with Isidro. It stood
up to light the cigarette, and his eyes looked through the windows
of the room.

Had muted the piano, but the German was still on the bench, stirring the leaves sheet music and
listening to Fernando, who, leaning on the top of the instrument, the talking closely. The
friendship was made with the music, you do not need a mediator complacent presentations.

The doctor wanted to walk, and followed Maltrana puffing cigar brave the perfume.

The proximity of the equator seemed to cheer Zurita.

Were close to their hemisphere, were to enter it within two days.

- It is, as they say, go home, my friend. I am very American and I have a mad desire to see my heaven.
Many nights in Europe privé me looking at him, he could not find in it the Southern Cross! ... And
tomorrow maybe contemplate. My girls do not understand these the old things.

I felt impatience to get to their land, seeing friends, learn about
the progress of business, tread the streets of Buenos Aires.

European capitals were worthy of admiration, But Buenos Aires! ...

- Soon we will arrive, God help us - continued merrily -. There will
be shown, Galician nice, what you are worth and what is inside.

Let's see if someday become multimillionaire and I can proudly tell me who made her first trip ...
But you have to work, you know, che? ... Nothing to believe that there is silver with just stooping
to take it. You lie a lot. People go there with a head full of exaggerations. In addition,
silver is not in a month or in a year: you must have the time, which
is worth the work, we must devote a company, whether it is, the greater
part of life.

They had come full circle to ride, and the doctor stopped near the
living room windows.

Again, the piano sounded. Isidro saw his friend standing next to the artist, his eyes fixed
back of his head bent, waiting for an indication of his head to return the score sheets.

- See, Maltranita.

The important thing in our land is to buy something, owning something, owning, and then the country,
which is always going forward, is responsible for enriching one,
provided that be patient and calm.

Why do you think we are a people apart from others and come to merge with our people around the
world? ...

The doctor did this question with an expression of good-natured mischief in his eyes and mouth.
Maltrana hastened to repeat all the platitudes he'd heard about the land of Argentina. The
virgin soil fertility, lack of laborers, the credit facility for working ...

- I have thought long and hard, my friend, the things of my country, and I think his power attraction
is that it is not arithmetic.

Is it whole you ... Rather said, that their arithmetic is different from that used in other towns.
In Europe and elsewhere, two plus two equals four times.

Is not that ...? As in Argentina has ever been.

He was silent, as if he enjoyed the amazement of Maltrana, then continued, with a doctoral smile:

-
In colonial times, when the old Spain, we had as children in school, and even much later, at
the time of our revolt, two and two were never four. There was no one sumase, who put an the two
numbers on each other. We dressed with home textile; we killed the animals to take only the hide
and fat, leaving the meat to owls, we cultivated the land for housing needs nothing more ...
Then came the heyday of the export and immigration, and two two also were four. Was valued
everything in a mad two and two were eight, two and two make twelve, and perhaps rises out of
bed, and no more work to have been sleeping is waking that two and two make twenty ... Which country,
my friend!

Maltrana heard him raising his eyebrows with sincere amazement, as if the doctor paradox deliver
him the great secret of the country where he went.

Understood, the important thing was to have two addends, for they
were simple: two and two.

The country was responsible after doing the addition in accordance with its wonderful arithmetic.

-
But the arithmetic is sometimes their failures - the doctor continued, accentuating her smile -.
The old world, shy and routine, is unshakable. Two plus two always equals four, no more or
less. There, on our land every ten years trembles all, but no guesses
to discover why the cataclysm.

Years of drought and crop failures ... Sometimes, even this.

Wars taking place across the globe, in countries we do not know or
care a bean, credit crunch, lack of money, banks to which they "run"
as they say there, and that its doors are full of people withdrawing
their deposits, homeowners who want to selling and who is not, foreign
capitalists who do not want to mortgage ... and then two and two make
one ... two plus two equals nothing ... and is not expected to hold
for arithmetic regain its former originality, is busted for the whole
harvest.

Maltrana doctor paradox continued with an objection. Day
would come that two and two were four in that country forever, when
their fields were divided into small fractions, the deserts were occupied
by a dense population, which increased the water until sed land now
cracked with huge rivers like the arms of the sea.

- It is - said
doctor -. Two and two will be four in Argentina sometime ... Undoubtedly,
in centuries. But then - he said sadly - no one will go to it, for
to meet with the same native arithmetic, with the news that two plus
two make only four no man feel like leaving your home.

VII

- Yes,
says you well. Lady Anstruthers gradually grew less
nervous and afraid of her subjects. In the wonder of the luxury of talking to someone who listened
with sympathy, she once or twice almost forgot herself and made revelations she had not intended
to make. She had often the manner of a person who was afraid of being overheard; sometimes,
even when she was making speeches quite simple in themselves, her voice dropped and she glanced
furtively aside as if there were chances that something she dreaded might step out of the shadow.

When they went upstairs together and parted for the night, the clinging of Rosy's embrace was
for a moment almost convulsive. But she tried to laugh off its suggestion of intensity.

"I held you tight so that I could feel sure that you were real and would not melt away," she
said. "I hope you will be here in the morning."

"I shall never really go quite away again, now I have come," Betty answered. "It is not only
your house I have come into. I have come back into your life."

After she had entered her room and locked the door she sat down and wrote a letter to her father.
It was a long letter, but a clear one. She painted a definite and detailed picture and made
distinct her chief point.

"She is afraid of me," she wrote. "That is the first and worst obstacle. She is actually afraid
that I will do something which will only add to her trouble. She has lived under dominion so
long that she has forgotten that there are people who have no reason for fear. Her old life
seems nothing but a dream. The first thing I must teach her is that I am to be trusted not
to do futile things, and that she need neither be afraid of nor for me."

After writing these sentences she found herself leaving her desk and walking up and down the
room to relieve herself. She could not sit still, because suddenly the blood ran fast and hot
through her veins. She put her hands against her cheeks and laughed a little, low laugh.

"I feel violent," she said. "I feel violent and I must get over it. This is rage. Rage is worth
nothing."

It was rage--the rage of splendid hot blood which surged in answer to leaping hot thoughts.
There would have been a sort of luxury in giving way to the sway of it. But the self-indulgence
would have been no aid to future action. Rage was worth nothing. She said it as the first Reuben
Vanderpoel might have said of a useless but glittering weapon. "This gun is worth nothing,"
and cast it aside.

CHAPTER XIV

IN THE GARDENS

She came out upon the stone terrace again rather early in the morning. She wanted to wander
about in the first freshness of the day, which was always an uplifting thing to her. She wanted
to see the dew on the grass and on the ragged flower borders and to hear the tender, broken
fluting of birds in the trees. One cuckoo was calling to another in the park, and she stopped
and listened intently. Until yesterday she had never heard a cuckoo call, and its hollow mellowness
gave her delight. It meant the spring in England, and nowhere else.

There was space enough to ramble about in the gardens. Paths and beds were alike overgrown
with weeds, but some strong, early-blooming things were fighting for life, refusing to be strangled.
Against the beautiful old red walls, over which age had stolen with a wonderful grey bloom,
venerable fruit trees were spread and nailed, and here and there showed bloom, clumps of low-growing
things sturdily advanced their yellowness or whiteness, as if defying neglect. In one place
a wall slanted and threatened to fall, bearing its nectarine trees with it; in another there
was a gap so evidently not of to-day that the heap of its masonry upon the border bed was already
covered with greenery, and the roots of the fruit tree it had supported had sent up strong,
insistent shoots.

She passed down broad paths and narrow ones, sometimes walking under trees, sometimes pushing
her way between encroaching shrubs; she descended delightful mossy and broken steps and came
upon dilapidated urns, in which weeds grew instead of flowers, and over which rampant but lovely,
savage little creepers clambered and clung.

In one of the walled kitchen gardens she came upon an elderly gardener at work. At the sound
of her approaching steps he glanced round and then stood up, touching his forelock in respectful
but startled salute. He was so plainly amazed at the sight of her that she explained herself.

"Good-morning," she said. "I am her ladyship's sister, Miss Vanderpoel. I came yesterday evening.
I am looking over your gardens."

He touched his forehead again and looked round him. His manner was not cheerful. He cast a
troubled eye about him.

"They're not much to see, miss," he said. "They'd ought to be, but they're not. Growing things
has to be fed and took care of. A man and a boy can't do it--nor yet four or five of 'em."

"How many ought there to be?" Betty inquired, with business-like directness. It was not only
the dew on the grass she had come out to see.

"If there was eight or ten of us we might put it in order and keep it that way. It's a big
place, miss."

Betty looked about her as he had done, but with a less discouraged eye.

"It is a beautiful place, as well as a large one," she said. "I can see that there ought to
be more workers."

"There's no one," said the gardener, "as has as many enemies as a gardener, an' as many things
to fight. There's grubs an' there's greenfly, an' there's drout', an' wet an' cold, an' mildew,
an' there's what the soil wants and starves without, an' if you haven't got it nor yet hands
an' feet an' tools enough, how's things to feed, an' fight an' live--let alone bloom an' bear?"

"I don't know much about gardens," said Miss Vanderpoel, "but I can understand that."

The scent of fresh bedewed things was in the air. It was true that she had not known much about
gardens, but here standing in the midst of one she began to awaken to a new, practical interest.
A creature of initiative could not let such a place as this alone. It was beauty being slowly
slain. One could not pass it by and do nothing.

"What is your name?" she asked

"Kedgers, miss. I've only been here about a twelve-month. I was took on because I'm getting
on in years an' can't ask much wage."

"Can you spare time to take me through the gardens and show me things?"

Yes, he could do it. In truth, he privately welcomed an opportunity offering a prospect of
excitement so novel. He had shown more flourishing gardens to other young ladies in his past
years of service, but young ladies did not come to Stornham, and that one having, with such
extraordinary unexpectedness arrived, should want to look over the desolation of these, was
curious enough to rouse anyone to a sense of a break in accustomed monotony. The young lady
herself mystified him by her difference from such others as he had seen. What the man in the
shabby livery had felt, he felt also, and added to this was a sense of the practicalness of
the questions she asked and the interest she showed and a way she had of seeming singularly
to suggest by the look in her eyes and the tone of her voice that nothing was necessarily without
remedy. When her ladyship walked through the place and looked at things, a pale resignation
expressed itself in the very droop of her figure. When this one walked through the tumbled-down
grape-houses, potting-sheds and conservatories, she saw where glass was broken, where benches
had fallen and where roofs sagged and leaked. She inquired about the heating apparatus and
asked that she might see it. She asked about the village and its resources, about labourers
and their wages.

"As if," commented Kedgers mentally, "she was what Sir Nigel is--leastways what he'd ought
to be an' ain't."

She led the way back to the fallen wall and stood and looked at it.

"It's a beautiful old wall," she said. "It should be rebuilt with the old brick. New would
spoil it."

"Some of this is broken and crumbled away," said Kedgers, picking up a piece to show it to her.

"Perhaps old brick could be bought somewhere," replied the young lady speculatively. "One ought
to be able to buy old brick in England, if one is willing to pay for it."

Kedgers scratched his head and gazed at her in respectful wonder which was almost trouble.
Who was going to pay for things, and who was going to look for things which were not on the
spot? Enterprise like this was not to be explained.

When she left him he stood and watched her upright figure disappear through the ivy-grown door
of the kitchen gardens with a disturbed but elated expression on his countenance. He did not
know why he felt elated, but he was conscious of elation. Something new had walked into the
place. He stopped his work and grinned and scratched his head several times after he went back
to his pottering among the cabbage plants.

"My word," he muttered. "She's a fine, straight young woman. If she was her ladyship things
'ud be different. Sir Nigel 'ud be different, too--or there'd be some fine upsets."

There was a huge stable yard, and Betty passed through that on her way back. The door of the
carriage house was open and she saw two or three tumbled-down vehicles. One was a landau with
a wheel off, one was a shabby, old-fashioned, low phaeton. She caught sight of a patently venerable
cob in one of the stables. The stalls near him were empty.

"I suppose that is all they have to depend upon," she thought. "And the stables are like the
gardens."

She found Lady Anstruthers and Ughtred waiting for her upon the terrace, each of them regarding
her with an expression suggestive of repressed curiosity as she approached. Lady Anstruthers
flushed a little and went to meet her with an eager kiss.

"You look like--I don't know quite what you look like, Betty!" she exclaimed.

The girl's dimple deepened and her eyes said smiling things.

"It is the morning--and your gardens," she answered. "I have been round your gardens." 

"If I shall have been light, watermelon and quirky? If I will have been in love monk, who believed
in me but not innocent and simple with paternal affection? ".

To ponder and doña Luz was filled with shame and trembling like a
restless and angry with itself, judging criminal, crazy and even unfaithful.

While

this was happening in the spirit of Dona Luz, Don Acisclo divided among his children or saved
for themselves the few poor articles that Father had left, and that more had to keep as sacred
memory by asserting that they had little.

D. In this partition reserved Dona Luz Acisclo for the few books that the priest had.

D. Do not know Acisclo that the father was writing a play and even thought it might Giving the picture,
although it had been incomplete. Sought, therefore, the manuscript, he found, and considering
that the only people capable of understanding in place what he called D. was a rant Anselmo
and Dona Luz, and D. Anselmo for being wicked are not so well appreciated the gibberish as
Doña Luz, who was a believer, do not hesitate to take the manuscript
to Dona Luz without even opening your pages, because it interfered
with the black, as accounts that were not He reaches out and winning
their favor.

Luz reverently received the manuscript of the Father, and not well D. Acisclo left alone opened
with eager curiosity and began to read.

In his impatience was browsing and ran all the pages, devouring its contents on the fly, trying
to understand the set, leaving for then read everything carefully.

A bit of browsing, gave Dona Luz with sheets. His eye fell on them. The heart he said something
very interesting enclosed.

Then read them pause, with interruptions, with very frequent interruptions because tears welled
in his eyes and blinded and not consented to read.

In each of these inevitable interruptions, in a low voice as if afraid of being heard, with words
broken by sobs, exclaimed Dona Luz:

- It was true. It was true. I loved my God! How much, how much I loved him!

At last, beyond and after what we know, the day before his death, Fr Enrique had written the
following, who also read Dona Luz:

"These pages, unless the trait or burned, they will invariably, after I die, to the beautiful
hands of it. And then not be ashamed that she knows my love. Sorry, My God, my new fault. I
want her to know him. What may disturb the happiness to know and
the peace of his noble life?

She has loved me, she loves me like an angel loves a saint and I I have loved as a man loves
a woman. I would be hypocritical if you do not deserve to reveal angelic love, that I loved as
loves a sinner. It is necessary for my eternal repose I forgive her for having become the balm
and poison innocent affection incentive vicious having fed the pure
light of his eyes this fire of hell to me it burns clean and stain
its image is engraved in the soul.

In spite of you, God mine, in spite of you and against yours, I recorded
with indelible traits.

All the verve my will, all the strength of heaven, all the pains
of hell will not boot from there.

Doña Luz and love of Dona Luz live immortal life in my spirit. "

After reading, Dona Luz pain became more acute, more tears came abundant in their eyes, the
sobs seemed likely to drown, but it looks like the iris between black clouds, a sweet smile of
triumph and gratitude for that love, forgiveness only requested,
shone in the fresh red lips of the gentle lady.

-XIX-

Embassy D.
Gregorio

The sadness of Dona Luz, after a few days, was more sweet
than bitter, but not left from being sadness was tempered by the satisfaction
he felt to have inspired Dona Luz so lively sympathy for the statement
made by the same Father, that she was not coquette, and the acquittal,
she herself was, after making an examination of conscience very rigorous.

Luz

was not his fault that he was grateful that love, or death that he regretted.

Their friendship, admiration and reverence to the Father could not have been higher.

If the Father had inspired a more lively sense, she had sinned against God, against the world,
against his honor and against decency.

Instead, his love for D. Jaime was legitimate, correct, according to class and her position,
and founded, finally, in cases not less than the love poetry by Fr Henry, if he been lawful,
it would have felt.

In order to strengthen and magnify the poetic causes her concern D. Jaime, Dona Luz considered very
high in D. Jaime to her. His selflessness was evident. He had found a hundred best games in Madrid.
Easily have been titled and women income, a little that would have looked. Don Jaime was without
doubt the most disdained by her brilliant weddings. After Don Jaime adored. AND D. Jaime, elegant,
noble family, full of the future, and honored and respected as a skilled captain and brave soldier,
could be proud any woman who would give his name and his hand.

D. Jaime also was young, handsome and arrogant figure, discreet and friendly. The letters he wrote
from Madrid showed Dona Luz While his love of the tender and loving, and his wit and jokes, so well
written and thanks and sets containing.

Doña Luz, then, in view of the foregoing, agreed with herself that
was very much in love of her husband, who had reason to be and to
have married him, and that their friendly tender for the Father and
the tears that poured over his death, and even kisses him given order
were so different, that in no way opposed or altered or modified in
a apex, or loosened at one point the bond of love and marriage that
D. Jaime the linking.

Missing a few days and to D. Jaime came back for her. He had already
taken home by the way, and almost had furnished.

He had already taken the title. Since both spouses could be called the Villafría Marquis. D. Jaime
would come within that same week, and it was Wednesday.

Luz was in her room, had just returned from Mass, and had prayed fervently
for the soul Fr Henry, in whom continuous and tender and melancholy
thought, when he entered Juana the damsel, and said:

- Madam, a stranger
wants to talk to your honor.

- Your name?

- Don Gregorio Salinas.

-
Do not know.

What is fascist?

- More good than bad.

Comes very decently dressed, but on the road.

It is known that just arrived.

It's tiny, plump, red as a beet, and smiles as if happy. It is, however, in mourning.

- Look, Jane, I have no desire to receive visitors.

Tell me a headache, which again again if you have something important to say, now do not get.

Jane
went for the message, and came right back with a letter placed in
the hands of Doña Luz.

- Don Gregorio Salinas - Juana said - I just
submitted this letter, ensuring that it will be admitted in your honor
to read.

Said that the letter is his credential.

Luz no sooner took the letter and looked at the envelope, he was amazed.

Recognized the handwriting of his father.

He opened it hastily, and looked at the signature. It was from his
father.

Then read the date and saw that the letter was written more than fifteen years.

The letter was terse. Contained only these words:

"Dear Daughter: The bearer of this letter will be Don Gregorio Salinas,
clerk of Madrid, person all my confidence.

Gives full credit to everything I say, listen to him and Send her away, and accept and receive
without scruple what you offer and give. "

- What happens later this gentleman - "Dona Luz.

Jane went to fetch, and D. Gregory went into the living room was that Dona Luz.

After the usual compliments, sitting Dona Luz and hitherto unknown guests in comfortable armchairs,
spoke it, with rest and as one who has much to say, the follows:

- You know your honor that my name is Gregorio Salinas. Now I am a notary and I'm not real bad fortune.
Twenty-eight years ago I was a poor student without a penny in his pocket; but, instead, nor
was fat, had no gray hair, or bald, or wrinkles, and people claimed,
Your Lordship will forgive the immodesty that I remember, that I was
a nice guy, smart and funny.

No wonder, therefore, that I fell in love with a woman of outstanding merit of my Joaquina.
This is my wife Joaquina, to serve your ladyship. He loves your honor and sends me a thousand
respectful and loving expressions.

- Thank you - "Dona Luz, interrupting
Don Gregorio -.

V. Let treatment and call me you, and also forgive me if I tell you
frankly that lighten your mind because I'm dying curiosity.

- Have
V. calm, my lady, have V. calm.

I promise not to be tedious or annoying. Go to the point. Do not think that anything I say
is to smoke with straw. All you need to that V. knowing.

- Come, follow you, and you will again forgive my interruption.

- Well, as I was saying - continued D. Greg - my wife is now a fresh
matronaza and still nice weekend, although the years do not go in
vain.

Five children have given me about five soles.

All orders are V., my lady.

At that time, when the courtship Joaquina was my one girl for the elite, who moved to Madrid, and
served as maid to some of the most haughty woman whose Privanza was
completely and all its secrets most intimate possession.

- What was
it called that lady?

- The Exma.

Ms. Countess of Fajalauza.

Doña Luz, as one hears a first name ringing in their ears, shrugged and stopped. D. Gregory continued:

-
Much should my wife and I to this lady. She married us, she protected us and she us given the
means by which to reach the point of comfort and prosperity we have come. God bless and increase
it to glory. Well worth it, because, after all, if some fault committed, in this naughty world
was his purgatory. The Countess was married to Mr. more that has known terrible today. All
trembling, starting with his wife. There had several sets of the callers of honor, and weighed
three deaths and several injuries on his conscience. He had a reputation as skilled, which
is believed capable of killing with a pistol pass a mosquito flying at fifty yards away, and
through a stab the devil himself who might set up a quarrel with him. Add to this that the
Count was jealous as a Turk, not because they loved much to the Countess,
but for other reasons.

The poor Countess had not given him any for eight years of marriage. This lady was a saint,
very suffered very cautious and very good Christian.

Luz began to show visible signs of interest in the narrative. Don Gregorio continued saying

-
The Countess brought into the marriage substantial assets. Gossips have been in that propagate
Count, to marry her, but took no account of your business. No love. The Countess almost married
girl, excited to do so by his mother, and without understanding all
the importance of that step.

Shortly after his mother died, and the orphan, no siblings or close relatives, was alone in
the world, face to face with that tyrant, that more should be called so that no husband and companion.

Countess
had no reason to love or respect her husband, but he loved cleaning of his fame, and fear God
and revered religious and moral precepts. Nothing, as I said, had to censor it in the first
eight years of marriage. Lived resigned as a martyr.

Did not even have the comfort and shelter with other women to establish their maternal heart to
love. The damn link was sterile. The counts of Fajalauza had no children.

An issue of great interest at that time claimed the presence of the Count in Lima. Not appropriate
Case trust anyone and there was that mattered arch-respectable sum.

The Countess was very ill health and could not accompany her husband in such a long voyage. The Count,
after much hesitation, decided to go alone. So he went and visited Peru about a year and a
half.

During the absence of Earl Countess was not presented at meetings or in theaters; lived enough
withdrawal, but not without suitors suitors and seek to seduce her. The Countess spurned them
all. There was one, however, endowed with such rare, bright clothing, so in love or pretending
so beautifully that I was, so delicate, handsome and seductive who
happened to captivate the soul of the unhappy Countess.

Contributed greatly to this result, as always, the conqueror's fame had already beau. Nothing
can be both with consider women as the one that seeks to despise
for their love of other women trendy, young, beautiful, rich and distinguished.

In

addition, and inasmuch as it is, the Countess loved the gallant, and such was his passion that
is left overcome despite their severe principles.

These relations were shrouded in impenetrable mystery. Joaquina was just my news of them. The
Countess was a unique woman.

Swept away by the irresistible violence of his affection, he saw his friend alone, and then cried
like Mary Magdalene, pray, loathed of itself as if it is deemed to
be most abject and vile, and even despair that God forgiveness.

In this spiritual fray, between guilt and repentance, was her until she turned her husband.

The secret was such that no one had said or the least suspected.

The Count, nevertheless, was suspicious and jealous, and suspected something from the day of his
return. Perhaps the excitement of his wife's disgust when she exchanged the chill with that before greeted
him, some words, some sighs, some ay! whistleblower who heard him in a dream, enough to put on
the track.

One night while he slept the countess, her husband took over the key to your desktop Women and
carefully recorded as it contained. The Countess had been rash to keep the first letters he
wrote her lover and the Count could read them. For this, these letters did not prove the full complicity
of the Countess.

She could even if any preserved not for love of who wrote them, but by vanity and testimony have
been so beloved. The letters were enough, however, that the Count had appalling scenes with his
wife. If the cards he had proven his guilt would have killed the Count. As letters were only
an indication, the Count was limited to haunt his wife and distrust it and watched. With a plausible
excuse was brought to live at home with a spinster sister I had,
which was a fury of hell.

This woman has since been the spy, the accompanying the owner, the black shadow of the Countess.

As
the leading man, whose name he discovered the count for the letters,
the letters also cost him faces.

The Count, in order for anyone to know and to try to inquire the reason, he sought the gallant and forced
him to fight with him to the sword, without any of the procedures and formalities of mourning. The
actor was mortally wounded in his own house, and only a miracle could
Surgery save lives.

- I knew that my father's release - said Dona
Luz - but did not know who was his opponent and the Because of the
set. V. continue, Mr. D. Gregorio.

- Since we know V. Beau was the
marquis, his father V., appointing him continue this story with your
name. If a sentence is beyond me that can hurt, even slightly, memory
Mr. Marquis, I to V. since then a million excuses. It went towards him, stretching
out a tender sniffing nose, and he put his hand in the pocket of his rough coat and gave it
something to eat. Afterwards he went to the gap in the fence and drew the wires together, fastening
them with other wire, which he also took out of the coat pocket.

"He is not afraid of making himself useful," thought Betty. "And the animals know him. He is
not as bad as he looks."

She lingered a moment watching him, and then walked towards the gate through which she had
entered. He glanced up as she neared him.

"I don't see your carriage," he said. "Your man is probably round the trees."

"I walked," answered Betty. "I had heard of this place and wanted to see it."

He stood up, putting his wire back into his pocket.

"There is not much to be seen from the road," he said. "Would you like to see more of it?"

His manner was civil enough, but not the correct one for a servant. He did not say "miss" or
touch his cap in making the suggestion. Betty hesitated a moment.

"Is the family at home?" she inquired.

"There is no family but--his lordship. He is off the place."

"Does he object to trespassers?"

"Not if they are respectable and take no liberties."

"I am respectable, and I shall not take liberties," said Miss Vanderpoel, with a touch of hauteur.
The truth was that she had spent a sufficient number of years on the Continent to have become
familiar with conventions which led her not to approve wholly of his bearing. Perhaps he had
lived long enough in America to forget such conventions and to lack something which centuries
of custom had decided should belong to his class. A certain suggestion of rough force in the
man rather attracted her, and her slight distaste for his manner arose from the realisation
that a gentleman's servant who did not address his superiors as was required by custom was
not doing his work in a finished way. In his place she knew her own demeanour would have been
finished.

"If you are sure that Lord Mount Dunstan would not object to my walking about, I should like
very much to see the gardens and the house," she said. "If you show them to me, shall I be
interfering with your duties?"

"No," he answered, and then for the first time rather glumly added, "miss."

"I am interested," she said, as they crossed the grass together, "because places like this
are quite new to me. I have never been in England before."

"There are not many places like this," he answered, "not many as old and fine, and not many
as nearly gone to ruin. 

"Forgive me, Lord. A thousand curses flow from my pen. The sinner unworthy, which should give close
accountable for their actions, wants to move lawsuit to appeal to your kindness and your justice.
But you know how I suffer, and I pity and perhaps forgive me. Before you fill my soul. I saw,
I I flipped out, and she filled my soul in your place. Today, when she leaves, the void, abyss
and loneliness that I'm terrified.

"Wicked thoughts arise in me. I clear the immensity, omnipotence of love, only end of life.
Yourself, only love and love reaches, but I despair and doubt troubled. I doubt that my being
finite can satisfy your love binding to an infinite, neither fits
in your understanding or understand their reason. Also, since the night they had come together on the ship's deck for an appalling
moment, he had liked her better and rebelled less against the unnatural wealth she represented.
He led her first to the wood from which she had seen him emerge.

"I will show you this first," he explained. "Keep your eyes on the ground until I tell you
to raise them."

Odd as this was, she obeyed, and her lowered glance showed her that she was being guided along
a narrow path between trees. The light was mellow golden-green, and birds were singing in the
boughs above her. In a few minutes he stopped.

"Now look up," he said.

She uttered an exclamation when she did so. She was in a fairy dell thick with ferns, and at
beautiful distances from each other incredibly splendid oaks spread and almost trailed their
lovely giant branches. The glow shining through and between them, the shadows beneath them,
their great boles and moss-covered roots, and the stately, mellow distances revealed under
their branches, the ancient wildness and richness, which meant, after all, centuries of cultivation,
made a picture in this exact, perfect moment of ripening afternoon sun of an almost unbelievable
beauty.

"There is nothing lovelier," he said in a low voice, "in all England."

Bettina turned to look at him, because his tone was a curious one for a man like himself. He
was standing resting on his gun and taking in the loveliness with a strange look in his rugged
face.

"You--you love it!" she said.

"Yes," but with a suggestion of stubborn reluctance in the admission.

She was rather moved.

"Have you been keeper here long?" she asked.

"No--only a few years. But I have known the place all my life."

"Does Lord Mount Dunstan love it?"

"In his way--yes."

He was plainly not disposed to talk of his master. He was perhaps not on particularly good
terms with him. He led her away and volunteered no further information. He was, upon the whole,
uncommunicative. He did not once refer to the circumstance of their having met before. It was
plain that he had no intention of presuming upon the fact that he, as a second-class passenger
on a ship, had once been forced by accident across the barriers between himself and the saloon
deck. He was stubbornly resolved to keep his place; so stubbornly that Bettina felt that to
broach the subject herself would verge upon offence.

But the golden ways through which he led her made the afternoon one she knew she should never
forget. They wandered through moss walks and alleys, through tangled shrubberies bursting into
bloom, beneath avenues of blossoming horse-chestnuts and scented limes, between thickets of
budding red and white may, and jungles of neglected rhododendrons; through sunken gardens and
walled ones, past terraces with broken balustrades of stone, and fallen Floras and Dianas,
past moss-grown fountains splashing in lovely corners. Arches, overgrown with yet unblooming
roses, crumbled in their time stained beauty. Stillness brooded over it all, and they met no
one. They scarcely broke the silence themselves. The man led the way as one who knew it by
heart, and Bettina followed, not caring for speech herself, because the stillness seemed to
add a spell of enchantment. Deep
down is via three mouths, the West Bank, the famous river Pilcomayo, which brings its waters
cerranias Potosi, and runs through the Chaco. In the 25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a narrow entrance,
taking only a rifle shot from a river to another, and is At this place the fort called La Angostura.
The Tebicuari enter Paraguay by the east, in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by the river boats of Our
Lady of Santa Fe and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth is
far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river is 17, or 18. Comes Bermejo
of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much of the Chaco: the color of
its waters is something vermilion. In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters it, so that
the water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana. They join the rivers Paraná and
Paraguay at the forefront of this city, which is located on the eastern margin, at 27 degrees
and 27 minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length. Seven Flames of Corrientes city, because
the land where the city is, for seven stone points, leaving the river, where the current is stronger
Paraná. From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty as yours keeps up near
Buenos Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows into the sea with the name of Rio de la Plata,
so named because brought from here some articles of silver and gold the first conquerors of
Paraguay, which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry made to the people of Peru with
Alejo Garcia and his colleagues, according to is written in Argentina Rui Diaz de Guzman.

* * *

§. II.

Nations of Indians living on the banks of Paraguay.

First in the same river, and its islands, inhabited by two factions of Indians Payaguá, who walk
all over him in their canoes, and kept fishing, and what to steal
Spanish and Portuguese.

A bias has a room in the northernmost part of the river, and its principal chief called Quatí.
The other is usually more frequently in the southern part, in the proximity of the Assumption.
The principal chief of this is called Ipar.

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná, live to the west, Abipones,
of which number is reduced to people. Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís
make incursions across the borders of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí,
and sometimes from Paraná, make their shots in the jurisdiction of
Corrientes, and often from the river Paraguay and ambushes in the
mountains, make significant damage to the northernmost village of
the Guarani missions, and stays the jurisdiction of Paraguay.

The Indians arrive in the western part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco, the
Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make
their shots into the rooms of the Assumption.

These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the
south of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern
and Western, until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living
in the manure. These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops
to the Mbayas, paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar
to other Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and excellent archers. Judge
is not many nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the river Paraguay. The Portuguese, sailing
by Xarayes from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya is allowed
to see some Indians, though few. Do not know what nation they are. Can be some relics of the
Xarayes.

Up here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks of the
river Paraguay.

* * *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with
admirable variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there
by a forest and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is greater Xexuí charm
the eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet of the mountain all covered with trees,
other times it is a campaign full of grass very green, others are huge palm trees, a particular
species of palms, because Logs are soaring and rights, hardwood and round crown, with similar branches
to the palm of making brooms in Andalucia. Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly to form
the roofs of the houses, because in removing the glass, and cutting
the trunk by the foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work.

These palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí to Xerez. And as the logs are very clean,
walk the Indians horseback through the palm, without any pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these
palms are smaller than regular palm, and dates are also smaller in proportion. I do not know
if they are edible.

Generally speaking, all the hills and mountains are in many mountain slopes with tall trees and
very thick trunk.

And there is no doubt that they would be, with so variety, precious woods. We found by chance
the tree where they get the rubber guta, or gamboge, which is a paste of very fine yellow.
The tall tree, not too thick, sheet similar to that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree giving some
cuts for entertainment in the bark of one of this species. Then cut out by the liquid rubber,
which soon rubber coagulates as seen in the pharmacy.

From Mboteteí, sailing up the river is the tree called Cachiguá, which has thin trunk, about
twelve to thirteen inches in diameter. The wood is red, a similar to vermilion color. The Portuguese
Cuyabá wood used in this red dye: say that the wood does not lose color, and so exquisite
for desktops and other works work.

Tree of the cassia trees, or casiafistula, are mountains in the vicinity of the Xarayes, and grow taller
and thicker than the brown of Spain. The bark is white, similar to those of the walnut. The result
is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains such as beans, grains and
between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and is sold in pharmacies.

The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little
difference, and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has
his blood like olives. The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland. It would be good to
test whether it can be very useful oil, and even if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§. IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south
latitude, and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth of Xaurú, and distance is
of Cuiaba, we can put this city in 322 degrees of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.
Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to lead in the Porrudos, runs
north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá port, a distance of two to three miles from the city.

In
the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where they have their origin the
two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay. And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon
rivers, Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands
of Xarayes: from so that this part can not enter into the city but
by the stream.

Nor is it possible that otherwise you can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy
rains flooded almost all the space of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from
east to west, that between the river and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá, and may at this
time through Cuyabá boats from the river Paraguay, without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather
Cuyabá are reduced and Paraguay rivers to their narrow and deep channels. And although the
intermediate space are many gaps, or there is no communication, or
not been discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from
a river to the other.

Therefore, for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese
need to give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by which
to climb back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very laborious and esponse to the assaults
of the barbarians and the black rebels. For these reasons there are few The Portuguese who undertake
the journey by land. The great distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and
mules in Cuyabá be sold at prices very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos,
and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of the
great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for
these mountains, to have communication with those of Mattogroso: but laborious way, and only
for ordinary people used to temper the climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes, and the
neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended. Only the guard of Captain General, and
to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per
month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two prisons to the frontier of the infidels:
twelve others in a war canoe serves to escort the boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining
twenty, are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of
which only a small number are free, others, or slaves, or taken and
treated as such, because Except for little more than two hundred people
who will find white people, the others, many are black and mulattoes,
and mestizos many Indians, who are treated by the Portuguese like
slaves: for, though only to the actual ordinance and to those of Payaguá
other nation can make slaves, but those parts are served any Portuguese
Indians who can catch, and keep them in slavery.

The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate the north are the Paresis and
Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese, for either have to overcome,
or are to be killed in the fray.

On the north-east are the Bororo Indians: these have the simplicity
of it, caught India by the Portuguese some of his nation, then come
the immediate relatives to deliver and serve the Portuguese who has
her home.

To the south, after the flooding, are above the Mbayas that the passage
of the Paulist Tacuarí by the usually undertake.

* * *

§. V.

Cuyabá mines.

Throughout Brazil are the Portuguese name of mines to the gold mines. And so neither in Cuiaba,
or any other part of Brazil, which has come to my knowledge, mine
is working properly such.

But there are gold mines Cuyabá of 23 carats, and one of the gold mines are diamonds. But in
these years history, because diamonds are not losing their estimation, was banned by the King
of Portugal them out of Cuiaba. The sinks are located in various parts to falls or slopes of
the great Cordillera. Work in these laundries black slaves, black and gives each his master in
every week three pieces of gold grains, which is the only currency runs there. And you do the math
on buying and selling gold in octaves and each octave are two weights.

In some parts is gold in abundance, but you can not take advantage
of him there for missing water for washing.

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the gender of Europe thence
selling price up. A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of
shoes, the same: a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá
sixties. And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices,
and is the largest smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in
Lisbon, and not permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all
the land of poor health.

The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and they die a lot, because
they can not cure. The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery, and some fever.
The Portuguese, convinced that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those effects, intended
to force lemon juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not infrequently ending with
the patient. The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on a boat through the Xarajes, very
smart man in his right, hearing the ensign of complaining Cuyabá that was between the people some
patients the bug, maybe something was informed that the bug, and
actually went to see the sick, and found that there was no such creature
or Guzan, and offered to cure them later.

The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which
maybe mixed with AGI, garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they were,
then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger, he was given two days healthy,
without applying any of the sobredichas thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The
storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall from
the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights
caused by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like dysentery, with great relaxation
in the stomach, which had no the heat needed for digestion. In this accident happened to happiness,
taking before eating a bit of sweet wine: remedy needed in that country to avoid losing health.

The
downpours are common in the uplands, but the strongest, which are grown dramatically rivers,
beginning with the month of December. And grow both rivers, not finding enough opening out
the many waters that flow down into the plain of Xarayes, overflow flooding fields, and forming
by this time a big lake, but later, in the rain ceasing, is drained by the Paraguay river channel,
and are only the channels of the rivers, and some gaps, uncovering
all the rest of the plain, full of impenetrable marshes.

But all that space for flooding, there are some groves of trees he very high whose trunks are
flooded up to three and four yards high. And most fans watched in Xarayes, is that all land to be
flooded part of the year, they found ants (Of which there are innumerable crowd) way to keep
their nests. These are manufactured by strong clay on top of large trees, with such art is like
a furnace around one of the upper branches, and so well constructed that they can not offend rain
or wind. And so that these can not be ants going up or down in dry weather, have made of it a
strong mud-covered road or canal, descending to the foot of the tree, which channel the ants up
and down safely.

The fruits of the land of Cuiaba and its region are maize, rice, cassava
(in other parts of America called cazave), pineapples, bananas or
pacobas with many other fruit species typical of hot climates of America,
sugar, cane syrup and bees, which There are several species in the
mountains.

The wild rice is on the banks of the Rio Cuiaba and Porrudos.

No fucks wheat, no wine, no nuts in Europe. The lack of bread supplement Portuguese with farinha
do pao, or cazave. There are Cuyabá some cattle, but little. In D. Xaurú bought them Manuel
Flores some cows for people on boats, and paid twenty pesos each. Piglets and game are more
abundant.

* * *

§. VII.

Navigation made by Portuguese in Brazil to Cuiaba.
Each year the Portuguese traders go to Cuiaba Brazil with a large
fleet of canoes gender-laden, and return the product in gold and diamonds.
The voyage is long and work: out of sixty or seventy canoes of a harbor,
which is four or five leagues San Pablo, a city well known in Brazil.
Añembí down by the river, to fall to the Paraná. On this sail downstream
to the mouth of the Rio Pardo, which comes from the west, and has
the origin of some streams that flow down from the great chain that
extends from north to south, from near to Mount Cuyabá Itapuá in the
Guarani missions. Up to Portuguese canoes, until they can sail above
the river Pardo: download here gender, and to spend two miles of mountains,
which are from the Rio Pardo to Carnap, vessels and cargo transported
on the truck of a Portuguez that it was filled in that range, and
is interested in the transport of these canoes. Bettina answered slowly and with such an air of absence of
mind that Rosy laughed a little.

"Will he do it accidentally, or against his will?" she said.

Betty herself smiled.

"Perhaps he will," she said. "There are Englishmen who rather dislike Americans. I think he
is one of them."

It apparently became necessary for Lady Anstruthers, a moment later, to lean upon the stone
balustrade and pick off a young leaf or so, for no reason whatever, unless that in doing so
she averted her look from her sister as she made her next remark.

"Are you--when are you going to write to father and mother?"

"I have written," with unembarrassed evenness of tone. "Mother will be counting the days."

"Mother!" Rosy breathed, with a soft little gasp. "Mother!" and turned her face farther away.
"What did you tell her?"

Betty moved over to her and stood close at her side. The power of her personality enveloped
the tremulous creature as if it had been a sense of warmth.

"I told her how beautiful the place was, and how Ughtred adored you--and how you loved us all,
and longed to see New York again."

The relief in the poor little face was so immense that Betty's heart shook before it. Lady
Anstruthers looked up at her with adoring eyes.

"I might have known," she said; "I might have known that--that you would only say the right
thing. You couldn't say the wrong thing, Betty."

Betty bent over her and spoke almost yearningly.

"Whatever happens," she said, "we will take care that mother is not hurt. She's too kind--she's
too good--she's too tender."

"That is what I have remembered," said Lady Anstruthers brokenly. "She used to hold me on her
lap when I was quite grown up. Oh! her soft, warm arms--her warm shoulder! I have so wanted her."

"She has wanted you," Betty answered. "She thinks of you just as she did when she held you
on her lap."

"But if she saw me now--looking like this! If she saw me! Sometimes I have even been glad to
think she never would."

"She will." Betty's tone was cool and clear. "But before she does I shall have made you look
like yourself."

Lady Anstruthers' thin hand closed on her plucked leaves convulsively, and then opening let
them drop upon the stone of the terrace.

"We shall never see each other. It wouldn't be possible," she said. "And there is no magic
in the world now, Betty. You can't bring back----"

"Yes, you can," said Bettina. "And what used to be called magic is only the controlled working
of the law and order of things in these days. We must talk it all over."

Lady Anstruthers became a little pale.

"What?" she asked, low and nervously, and Betty saw her glance sideways at the windows of the
room which opened on to the terrace.

Betty took her hand and drew her down into a chair. She sat near her and looked her straight
in the face.

"Don't be frightened," she said. "I tell you there is no need to be frightened. We are not
living in the Middle Ages. There is a policeman even in Stornham village, and we are within
four hours of London, where there are thousands."

Lady Anstruthers tried to laugh, but did not succeed very well, and her forehead flushed.

"I don't quite know why I seem so nervous," she said. "It's very silly of me."

She was still timid enough to cling to some rag of pretence, but Betty knew that it would fall
away. She did the wisest possible thing, which was to make an apparently impersonal remark.

"I want you to go over the place with me and show me everything. Walls and fences and greenhouses
and outbuildings must not be allowed to crumble away."

"What?" cried Rosy. "Have you seen all that already?" She actually stared at her. "How practical
and--and American!"

"To see that a wall has fallen when you find yourself obliged to walk round a pile of grass-grown
brickwork?" said Betty.

Lady Anstruthers still softly stared.

"What--what are you thinking of?" she asked.

"Thinking that it is all too beautiful----" Betty's look swept the loveliness spread about
her, "too beautiful and too valuable to be allowed to lose its value and its beauty." She turned
her eyes back to Rosy and the deep dimple near her mouth showed itself delightfully. "It is
a throwing away of capital," she added.

"Oh!" cried Lady Anstruthers, "how clever you are! And you look so different, Betty."

"Do I look stupid?" the dimple deepening. "I must try to alter that."

"Don't try to alter your looks," said Rosy. "It is your looks that make you so--so wonderful.
But usually women--girls----" Rosy paused.

"Oh, I have been trained," laughed Betty. "I am the spoiled daughter of a business man of genius.
His business is an art and a science. I have had advantages. He has let me hear him talk. I
even know some trifling things about stocks. Not enough to do me vital injury--but something.
What I know best of all,"--her laugh ended and her eyes changed their look,--"is that it is
a blunder to think that beauty is not capital--that happiness is not--and that both are not
the greatest assets in the scheme. This," with a wave of her hand, taking in all they saw,
"is beauty, and it ought to be happiness, and it must be taken care of. It is your home and
Ughtred's----"

"It is Nigel's," put in Rosy.

"It is entailed, isn't it?" turning quickly. "He cannot sell it?"

"If he could we should not be sitting here," ruefully.

"Then he cannot object to its being rescued from ruin." No one could walk around the ship without being jostled by people hits
chairs moved around, or feet entangled in the piles of fabric. Fernando took refuge at the end
of the ride was on the bow, leaning on the railing along the drums and brass instruments left
behind by the musicians.

Stood in the background the island of volcanic mountains staggering, with squares of land dotted
with white houses cultivated. At the bottom, next to the blue sea mass, Spanish fortifications
stretching his old strongholds, topped by watchtowers angles rock ledges. The city was pink,
v on it stood the steeples several tile-domed churches. Four towers in the space marked radiographic
the lines of her body almost immaterial, showing the sky through the tight tramaje.

Above the city, on a ridge of the mountain, flying the flag of a modern castle: an elegant hotel
that came to breathe the northern consumptive. Between the spring and liner, a vault of bay space
with flat barges to transport coal abandoned on its mooring and nodding in solitude; vapors of
different flags around agitábase flanks of the movement of cargo cranes squeaks and tingling
small boats, sailboats green hull, which seemed dead, without a man on deck, tending to space the skeletal
arms of their masts; roar of sirens announced a game close and others warned roars from the bottom
of the immediate horizon arrival Belgian flags on top of a mast were to the mouth of the Congo,
bows English coming from the Cape or twisting course toward the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico, ships
of all nationalities marched straight toward the South in search of the coast of Brazil and the
republics of the Plata; helmets five poles resting on pending orders, back China, Hindustan, or
Australia; vapors tricolor flag en route to the ports France's African colonial Spanish schooners
engaged in coastal trade in the archipelago Canary Islands and Morocco scales.

The island, cheerful and lazy in the middle of the crossroads of major
roads leading to Africa and America, this movement seemed impassive
look of world navigation, while provided food for a few hours of carbon
black to smoky agencies, which came and departed without knowing it,
festooned in a rough sea fleet of cacti and aloes; after the volcanic
mountains guarding the coastline, the secret of his hidden tropical
valleys; climbing the sky with a succession of summits on which floated
the white tufts of clouds and boasting about the mass of the peak
of Teide fleeces, a conical cap streaked with snow, which was like
the tassel or button of this vast land skull emerged Ocean.

 He said he had been reflecting and that he was afraid
that we had misunderstood each other--because we belonged to different countries, and had been
brought up in different ways----" she paused.

"And that if you understood his position and considered it, you might both be quite happy,"
Betty gave in quiet termination.

Lady Anstruthers started.

"Oh, you know it all!" she exclaimed

"Only because I have heard it before. It is an old trick. And because he seemed kind and relenting,
you tried to understand--and signed something."

"I WANTED to understand. I WANTED to believe. What did it matter which of us had the money,
if we liked each other and were happy? He told me things about the estate, and about the enormous
cost of it, and his bad luck, and debts he could not help. And I said that I would do anything
if--if we could only be like mother and father. And he kissed me and I signed the paper."

"And then?"

"He went to London the next day, and then to Paris. He said he was obliged to go on business.
He was away a month. And after a week had passed, Lady Anstruthers began to be restless and
angry, and once she flew into a rage, and told me I was a fool, and that if I had been an Englishwoman,
I should have had some decent control over my husband, because he would have respected me.
In time I found out what I had done. It did not take long."

"The paper you signed," said Betty, "gave him control over your money?"

A forlorn nod was the answer.

"And since then he has done as he chose, and he has not chosen to care for Stornham. And once
he made you write to father, to ask for more money?"

"I did it once. I never would do it again. He has tried to make me. He always says it is to
save Stornham for Ughtred."

"Nothing can take Stornham from Ughtred. It may come to him a ruin, but it will come to him."

"He says there are legal points I cannot understand. And he says he is spending money on it."

"Where?"

"He--doesn't go into that. If I were to ask questions, he would make me know that I had better
stop. He says I know nothing about things. And he is right. He has never allowed me to know
and--and I am not like you, Betty."

"When you signed the paper, you did not realise that you were doing something you could never
undo and that you would be forced to submit to the consequences?"

"I--I didn't realise anything but that it would kill me to live as I had been living--feeling
as if they hated me. And I was so glad and thankful that he seemed kinder. He who wants to
Read more to find out.

And the sailor laughed talking about the poor peasants of the countryside, until a few years
before claiming in good faith that the Chuetas were covered with
grease and had tails, using the occasion to find only a child from
"the street" to undress and satisfy themselves as to whether it was
true the caudal appendage.

- What about my brother? - Continued Valls
-.

And what about my holy brother Benito, to read out loud and it seems that the images are going
to eat? ...

Everyone remembered the case of Don Benito Valls, and laughed outright, as the brother was first
to make fun of the event. The rich had been chueta owner to charge a credit a home and valuable
land in a village inside the island. By going to take possession of the new property, the more
prudent neighbors had given good advice. Owner was very to visit his ranch during the day, but
do spend the night at home? ... Ever! There was no report that a chueta had stayed in the village.
Don Benito did not heed this advice and stayed overnight on their property, but scarcely got
into bed fled the home. When the master grew tired of sleeping jumped out of bed. Not the faintest
glow coming through the slits. Believed to have slept twelve hours at least, but it was still
dark. Opened a window and bumped his head cruelly in the dark, tried to cross the threshold, and
could not. During your dream neighborhood had boarded up all the holes and exits, and had to save
chueta through the roof, between the laughter of people, celebrating his work. This was only
joking by way of warning, if he persisted in going against the customs of the people, wake up some night
in flames.

- Very great, but funny! - Said the captain -.

My brother! ... A good person! ... A saint ...

Everyone laughed at these words. Still the case with his brother, but with some coldness, and made
no secret of the grievances he had with him. Captain Valls was bohemian family, always at
sea or in distant lands, bringing a happy bachelor life.

Quite had to live. And his father's death, his brother had been with the business the house, taking
away many thousands of dollars.

- The same as between the old Christians! - Paul hastened to add -. In this matter of inheritance
no race or creed. Money knows no religion.

The endless persecution suffered by their ancestors irritated Valls. All circumstances were
good for running over people from "the street." When the farmers had grievances with the nobles
and down the foreign armed gangs against the citizens of Palma the conflict was resolved assaulting
each other Chuetas neighborhood, killing the not running away and stealing their stores. If
a Spaniard battalion received orders to march to Spain in case of war, soldiers mutinied, left
the headquarters and looted "the street".

When reactions happened in Spain to the revolutions, the realistic, to celebrate his triumph,
raided the chuetas silverware, seized their wealth and made bonfires furniture, throwing flames
until the crucifix ... Crucifixes old Jew, who necessarily had to be fake!

- And who are the "street"? - Shouted the captain -. It is already known: those with nose and
eyes like me. But there are many chuetas that are blunt and do not have anything common type.
In contrast, how many that are stale knights, nobility proud, have a face or that of Abraham
and Jacob? ...

There was a list of suspect names to meet the real Chuetas. But these Christians had their surnames
the old, and was the traditional fancy separating the to each other.

They had only been marked by popular hatred of the families descended of those who were beaten or
burned by the Inquisition. The famous list of names was undoubtedly taken from the file of the
Inquisition.

- A happiness to become a Christian! Grandparents charred by fire and grandchildren marked and
cursed for ever and ever ...

The captain lost his ironic tone, remembering the gruesome history of chuetas de Mallorca. It colored
his cheeks and his eyes shone with fires of hatred. To live in peace, had become all mass in
the fifteenth century. It was not a Jew on the island, but the Inquisition he needed to do something
to justify their existence, and there were suspicious fires of Judaism in the terminal, organized
events, as said by the chroniclers of the time, "with according to the most lucid held for the triumph
of the Faith in Madrid, Palermo and Lima. "

Chuetas Some were burned, others suffered flogging, others came only
to shame hood painted with devils and green candle in hand, but all
alike were confiscated property, and the Holy Tribunal was enriched.

Since then, those suspected of Judaism those who did not have a protector cleric, had to go
every Sunday to Mass at the Cathedral with their families, under the command and custody of a constable,
who was in herd I put a blanket so that no one be confused, and so
took them to the temple, between the whistles, insults and stones
of the devout populace.

This was a Sunday and next Sunday, and in this ordeal weekly and endless dying parents and
children became men, engendering new chuetas intended to insult the public.

A few families conspired to escape from this shameful slavery. They met in a garden wall immediately
and advised and directed a certain Rafael Valls, brave man and high
culture.

- Certainly do not know if it was a relative of mine - said
the captain -.

It has been more than two centuries since then! But if it was not, I want you to be ... I
am honored to have him as a grandfather much mine. Adelante!

Pablo Valls had collected in their home papers and books from the period of persecution and spoke
of them as an event that occurred days earlier.

- They embarked men, women and children in an English ship, but it turned a temporary back to
the coast of Mallorca, and the fugitives were arrested. This was ruling over Spain Charles
II the Bewitched. Wanting to escape from the island, where they were treated well, and more than
this, on a ship manned by Lutherans! ... Three years were in prison, and confiscation of their
goods produced one million dollars. Furthermore, the Holy Tribunal had other million uprooted
previous victims, and built a palace in Palma, the best and more
luxurious than had anywhere in the Inquisition.

The prisoners were given torment to confess what they wanted their judges, and March 7, 1691 began
the executions.

That event was as a historian not know of any in the world, the father Garau, Jesuit saint,
well of science theological, rector of the Seminary of Mount-Zion, where now stands the Institute,
author of Faith Triumphant, a literary monument that do not sell all the money in the world.
Here it is: accompanies me everywhere.

And took out a pocket Faith triumphant book bound in parchment, ancient and red printing, was
sporting a fierce affection.

Garau father Blessed! Charge encourage and strengthen the prisoners, had seen it all by, and
languages ​​made the thousands and thousands of spectators who attended
the various peoples of the island to witness the celebration, solemn
Masses thirty assistance and eight prisoners for burning, the luxury
men's apparel and marshals, riders in spirited horses in front of
the procession, and "the mercy of the crowd, which broke out other
Sometimes cries of shame when they had to hang an outlaw, and remained
mute before these reprobates forgotten the Lord ... "

On that day showed, as the learned Jesuit, temple soul of those who believe in God and know
him. The priests marched valliantly shouting encouragement without tiring, the wretched inmates
were pale, listless and without forces. Well you saw how much aid was blue.

Those sentenced were taken at the foot of the castle of Bellver, for the final burn. The Marquis
of Leganés, governor of the Milanese, the way in Mallorca with his fleet, took pity youth and beauty
of a girl condemned to the flames and asked his forgiveness. The Court praised the Marquis Christian
sentiments, but would not accept his plea.

Garau's father was responsible for convincing Rafael Valls, "a man of some letters, but to which the
devil inspired an inordinate pride, urging him to curse those who
condemned him to death, and not wanting to reconcile with the Church.

" But, as I said the Jesuit, they might, Malo's work, just before the danger can not be compared
with the serenity of the priest urging the defendant.

- The Jesuit father was a hero away from the flames. Now you will see how evangelical piety recounts
the death of my grandfather.

He opened the book Valls pointed to a page, read slowly: "As was just smoke to him was a statue,
on reaching the flame, it was argued, covered and struggled as could,
until he could no more.

Lechonazo was fat as a breeding and burned in the interior; so even
when they arrived the flames, burning his flesh as a brand, and bursting
through, he dropped the entrails as Judas.

Medius Crepuit sunt omnia viscera ejus diffuse. "

This reading barbaric always produced effect.

The laughter ceased, the faces are darkened, and the captain walked
around Valls amber eyes, breathing satisfied, as if she had to achieve
a win, while the small volume returned to hide in your pocket.

Febrer once was among the listeners, the sailor said with grudging voice:

- You were also there.

That is, you do not. One of your grandparents, a Febrer, carried the flag green, most of the
Court as an ensign, and the ladies of the family were in a carriage
at the foot Castle to witness the burning.

James, bothered by the memory, shrugged his shoulders.

- Old Stuff! Who remembers what has already happened? Only a fool like you ... Go, Paul tell us
something about your travels ... your achievements of women.

The captain grumbled ... Old things! The soul of the Roqueta was still the same as those times.
Persisted hatred of religion and race. For some living apart, in a piece of land isolated by the
sea.

But soon recovered Valls good humor, and like all who have been shot by the world, could resist
the invitation to tell their past.

Febrer, another wanderer like himself, enjoyed listening. The two had lived a troubled existence
and cosmopolitan than the monotonous life of the islanders, the two had spent the money lavishly.
The only difference was that he managed to win just Valls with the active genius of his race, and now,
ten years older than James, had to do deal themselves with facility
his modest bachelor needs.

Still traded from time to time and made commissions for friends who wrote to him from distant
ports.

In its checkered history of ocean, Febrer discarded the story of famines and storms, and just
curious about the affairs in the major international ports, which they collect exotic vices and
females of all races. Valls, in his younger days, when Ships sent from his father, had met women
of all kinds and colors, finding mixed marinerescas that ended in orgies between shock waves
of whiskey and a knife.

- Paul, tell us about those affairs in Jaffa, where you wanted to kill the Moors.

And laughter threw Febrer listening, while the sailor was said that James was a good guy, worthy
of better luck, with no other defects to be a sausage stuck to something
family concerns.

When the carriage went on the road Febrer Valldemossa, ordering the
driver to the had brought there for him to return to Palma, drew back
the fedora flexible wearing at all times, crushed glass, with the
front wing rise and subsequent collapse on the neck.

- We are all
here!

Do you really expect me not? To me, I tell it all, and since there family party, it is complete.

Febrer
pretended not to understand. The carriage entered Valldemossa, stopping near de la Cartuja before
a house of modern construction.

When the two friends transposed garden gate, they saw coming towards them a man with white whiskers
leaning on a cane. It was Don Benito Valls. Febrer greeted with voice, slow and dull, repeatedly
cutting her words to suck the air. He spoke humbly, celebrating with great honor that ends
Febres was to accept his invitation.

- What about me? - Asked the captain evil grin -; "I am nobody ...? Are not you glad to see me?

Don
Benito was glad to see him. So said several times, but his eyes betrayed anxiety. Her brother
inspired some fear.

Which language !.... Best lived without seeing.

- We have come together - continued the ocean -. Knowing that James
had lunch here, I have invited myself, sure to give you a great joy.

These family reunions are lovely.

They entered the house, decorated with simplicity. The furniture was modern and vulgar. Some cards
and a horrible paintings depicting landscapes adorned Valldemossa
and Miramar walls.

Catherine, the daughter of Don Benito, hurried down the upper deck. Still wore powder of rice scattered
on the chest, revealing the haste with which he had given a final touch adornment of his person
to see get the carriage.

Jaime could contemplate carefully first. Was not wrong in their assessments. She was tall, matt-brown,
with black eyebrows, eyes same ink droplets and a slight hair lip
and temples.

His youthful slenderness offered to fill and sign, announcing greater expansion for the future,
as in all females of his race.

It looked sweet-natured and submissive, a good companion, unable to hindrances on the journey
of life together.

His downcast eyes and colored his face when facing Jaime.

In his attitude, in their eyes furtive, we noticed the respect, adoration
of you feel intimidated in the presence of unless considered superior.

The captain patted her niece with some freedom, adopting the same
old cheerful gesture with which he spoke to the lad of Palma, late
at night in a restaurant of Borne.

Ah, good girl! And how pretty she was! It seemed impossible that a family was ugly.

Don Benito went to all the dining room.

Lunch was waiting for a long time, in that ate home to ancient usage, twelve o'clock. They
sat at the table, and Febrer, which was next to the owner, he felt disturbed by wheezing,
by the great aspirations that interrupted his words.

In the silence that always surrounds the beginning of every meal, the whistle sounded painfully of diseased
lungs. The rich chueta lips moved, putting them in a circular as the mouth of a trumpet, and
breathed in the air with noise strenuous.

Like all patients, felt the need to talk, his words were endless, from babbling and long breaks
that left him with his chest heaving and eyes up, as if he were to
die asphyxiated.

An atmosphere of anxiety spread through the room. Febrer him with some alarm, as if you wait
to see him dying fall of his chair.

Captain's daughter and used to the spectacle, seemed indifferent.

- Is asthma, Don Jaime - laboriously said the patient - in Valldemossa
... I'm better ... In Palma was dying.

The daughter took the opportunity to leave a voice of timid nun, in
contrast to his burning eyes oriental

- Yes, Dad lives better here.

-
Here are quieter - said the captain - and make fewer sins.

Febrer thought about the anguish of spending their existence next to that broken bellows. Fortunately,
die soon.

A nuisance for some months, which did not affect its decision to enter family. Adelante!

The asthmatic, in his mania verbose, Jaime spoke of his descendants, of the illustrious Febrer the good
and noble knights of the island.

- I had the honor of being good
friends with his grandfather, Sir Horace.

Febrer stared ... Lie! In his master grandfather knew everyone on the island and all talk, but keeping
a gravity that commanded respect for the people without them away.

But for this to be your friend! ... Maybe he would have tried in connection with any loan Don
Horacio needed to sustain their fortunes in decline.

- I also knew
your father very much - continued Don Benito, encouraged by the silence
of Febrer -.

I worked for him when he left deputy. Those were different times! I was young, and had no
fortune I have now ... So among the 'red'.

Valls captain interrupted him, laughing. Now his brother was a conservative and a member of
all the guilds of Palma.

- Yes I am - the patient shouted, drowning
-.

I like order ... I like the old ... that send those who have to lose. What about religion? Ah,
religion ...! For she would die.

And he put his hand to his chest, breathing painfully, as if drowned enthusiasm. Nailed atop
his dull eyes, loving to respect the sacred institution of fear that had burned to their ancestors.

-
Pay no attention to Paul - went to retrieve the tooth, addressing Febrer -; you knows it well: a
bad head, a Republican, a man who could be rich and will reach Growing old without having
two pesetas.

- Why? Why you took them off? ...

With this abrupt interruption of the sea was quiet. Catalina made a gesture sad, as if afraid to
be reproduced Febrer noisy scenes he had witnessed many times when
discussing the two brothers.

Don Benito shrugged and spoke only to Jaime. His brother was crazy: a heart gold, but crazy,
hopelessly insane.

With their exalted ideas and rants on coffee was the main culprit of that decent people bear
some prevention ... to speak ill of ...

And the old accompanied
his truncated expressions with humble gestures, avoiding pronouncing
chueta word and name the famous "street."

The captain, his cheeks stained by the repentance of his aggressiveness, I wanted to forget the words
above, and ate voraciously with the head low.

The river niece of his good appetite. Whenever I ate with them admired by the ability your stomach.

-
But I know what it is hungry - the sailor said with some pride -. I have suffered hunger indeed,
hunger suggests that meat from peers.

And released by this recall in the full story of maritime adventure,
he spoke of the times youth, when he had been "added" on board a frigate
that went to the coast Pacific.

To strive to be a sailor, his father, the old Valls, author of the fortune of the house, had
embarked on a schooner of his own which brought sugar from Havana. That was not navigate. The
cook kept the best food, the captain did not dare give an order, see him as the son of the
owner. Never be a good sailor, hard and expert. With the tenacious energy of race, was unknown
to his father embarked on a frigate that was sailing for loading guano at the Chincha Islands,
manned by people of diverse peoples: British deserters Fleet, boaters of Valparaiso, Peruvian
Indians, the worst in each house, under the command of a Catalan stingy, more lavish in rebencazos
in the, hut.

The trip was regular, but around the corner, after passing the Strait of Magellan, came the
calm, and the frigate was still in the Atlantic about a month, sold out quickly the storeroom
of the food. The owner, a miser, had stocked the ship with scandalous parsimony, and the captain
in turn had eaten the food, appropriating a portion of the amount for the purchase.

- They gave us two biscuits a day, full of worms. When I received the first amused me carefully,
as a gentleman of good family, in taking away one by one those little creatures. But after the clean
leaving only a thin crust hosts, and I was dying hunger. Then ...

- Oh, man! - Protested Catalina, guessing what was going to say and repelling and fork plate with
a gesture of disgust.

- Then - continued the ocean, impassible - suppressed cleaning and
swallow me whole.

It is true that eating at night ... Many who had been, girl! At the end we only got one per day,
and when I arrived at Cadiz I had to be subjected many to stock, for my stomach to settle.

After lunch, Catherine and James went to the garden. The same Don Benito, with the air patriarch,
kind, ordered his daughter to accompany M. de Febrer to show variety of exotic rose bushes he had
planted. The two brothers remained in the room that served as office, watching the couple strolling
in the garden and ended up sitting in two cane chairs in the shade
of a tree.

Catherine replied to questions from his companion with
a Christian maiden shyness holy educated guessing the hidden words
in common with their gallantry.

This man came for her, and her father
was the first to accept this desire. Thing done! ... It was a Febrer,
and she would say "yes." He recalled his childhood in school, surrounded
poor girls who took advantage of every opportunity to annoy, from
envy to wealth and learned hatred from their parents. It was the chueta.
I could only get together with those of race, and even they were anxious
to ingratiate himself with the enemy, betraying each other, excluding
energy and cohesion for the common defense. At the time of departure,
they left chuetas before, an indication of the nuns, to avoid insults
and attacks by other students to be together in the street. Even the
servants who accompanied the girls undertook fights assuming the hatred
and concerns of its masters. Also in boys' schools Chuetas out before
fleeing from the slings and lashes of the Old Christians.

Valls's
daughter had suffered the torments of the traitor pinprick, scratch
hidden, the scissors stroke her hair, and then as a female, hatred
and contempt for their former companions had followed him in life,
its pleasures embittering rich young woman. Why how to be smart? ...
On field trips only greeted the friends of his father in the theater
visited his box looked rather than people from "the street". With
one of them would to marry, and had married his mother and grandmother.
Despair and mysticism of adolescence had been dragged into the monastic
life. His father was close to drowning penalty. But religion, religion
that I wished to give life! ... Don accepted Monji Benito of a convent
of Mallorca, where he could see his daughter every day. But no convent
wanted to open their doors for her. Superiors, tempted by fortune
father, who would eventually move to the community, showed themselves
compromisers and good, but alborotábanse monastic herds to the idea
of ​​being in their midst of "the street" and not humble and resigned
to support the superiority of the other, but rich and arrogant.

When
pushed back into the world for this resistance did not know what to
think of their future and lived as a nurse with the father, not knowing
what would be his fate, turning chuetas young back who fluttered like
butterflies around it attracted millions of Don Benito, the noble
Febrer presented itself as a fairy tale prince, to make his wife.
What good is God! ... He looked at the immediate palace to the cathedral,
in the neighborhood of nobles by whose narrow streets and quiet blue
floor pass canons during sleeping hours in the afternoon, attracted
by the bell choir. And Betty had come to Stornham--Betty
whom he had detested as a child--and in the course of two days, she had seemed to become a
new part of the atmosphere, and to make the dead despair of the place begin to stir with life.
What other thing than this was happening as she spoke of making such rooms as the Rosebud Boudoir
"look as they ought to look," and said the words not as if they were part of a fantastic vision,
but as if they expressed a perfectly possible thing?

Betty saw the doubt in her eyes, and in a measure, guessed at its meaning. The time to pause
for argument had, however not arrived. There was too much to be investigated, too much to be
seen. She swept her on her way. They wandered on through some forty rooms, more or less; they
opened doors and closed them; they unbarred shutters and let the sun stream in on dust and
dampness and cobwebs. The comprehension of the situation which Betty gained was as valuable
as it was enlightening.

The descent into the lower part of the house was a new experience. Betty had not before seen
huge, flagged kitchens, vaulted servants' halls, stone passages, butteries and dairies. The
substantial masonry of the walls and arched ceilings, the stone stairway, and the seemingly
endless offices, were interestingly remote in idea from such domestic modernities as chance
views of up-to-date American household workings had provided her.

In the huge kitchen itself, an elderly woman, rolling pastry, paused to curtsy to them, with
stolid curiosity in her heavy-featured face. In her character as "single-handed" cook, Mrs.
Noakes had sent up uninviting meals to Lady Anstruthers for several years, but she had not
seen her ladyship below stairs before. And this was the unexpected arrival--the young lady
there had been "talk of" from the moment of her appearance. Mrs. Noakes admitted with the grudgingness
of a person of uncheerful temperament, that looks like that always would make talk. A certain
degree of vague mental illumination led her to agree with Robert, the footman, that the stranger's
effectiveness was, perhaps, also, not altogether a matter of good looks, and certainly it was
not an affair of clothes. Her brightish blue dress, of rough cloth, was nothing particular,
notwithstanding the fit of it. There was "something else about her." She looked round the place,
not with the casual indifference of a fine young lady, carelessly curious to see what she had
not seen before, but with an alert, questioning interest.

"What a big place," she said to her ladyship. "What substantial walls! What huge joints must
have been roasted before such a fireplace."

She drew near to the enormous, antiquated cooking place.

"People were not very practical when this was built," she said. "It looks as if it must waste
a great deal of coal. Is it----?" she looked at Mrs. Noakes. "Do you like it?"

There was a practical directness in the question for which Mrs. Noakes was not prepared. Until
this moment, it had apparently mattered little whether she liked things or not. The condition
of her implements of trade was one of her grievances--the ancient fireplace and ovens the bitterest.

"It's out of order, miss," she answered. "And they don't use 'em like this in these days."

"I thought not," said Miss Vanderpoel.

She made other inquiries as direct and significant of the observing eye, and her passage through
the lower part of the establishment left Mrs. Noakes and her companions in a strange but not
unpleasurable state of ferment.

"Think of a young lady that's never had nothing to do with kitchens, going straight to that
shameful old fireplace, and seeing what it meant to the woman that's got to use it. 'Do you
like it?' she says. If she'd been a cook herself, she couldn't have put it straighter. She's
got eyes."

"She's been using them all over the place," said Robert. "Her and her ladyship's been into
rooms that's not been opened for years."

"More shame to them that should have opened 'em," remarked Mrs. Noakes. "Her ladyship's a poor,
listless thing--but her spirit was broken long ago.

"This one will mend it for her, perhaps," said the man servant. "I wonder what's going to happen."

"Well, she's got a look with her--the new one--as if where she was things would be likely to
happen. You look out. The place won't seem so dead and alive if we've got something to think
of and expect."

"Who are the solicitors Sir Nigel employs?" Betty had asked her sister, when their pilgrimage
through the house had been completed.

Messrs. Townlinson & Sheppard, a firm which for several generations had transacted the legal
business of much more important estates than Stornham, held its affairs in hand. Lady Anstruthers
knew nothing of them, but that they evidently did not approve of the conduct of their client.
Nigel was frequently angry when he spoke of them. It could be gathered that they had refused
to allow him to do things he wished to do--sell things, or borrow money on them.

"I think we must go to London and see them," Betty suggested.

Rosy was agitated. Why should one see them? What was there to be spoken of? Their going, Betty
explained would be a sort of visit of ceremony--in a measure a precaution. Since Sir Nigel
was apparently not to be reached, having given no clue as to where he intended to go, it might
be discreet to consult Messrs. Townlinson & Sheppard with regard to the things it might be
well to do--the repairs it appeared necessary to make at once. If Messrs. Townlinson & Sheppard
approved of the doing of such work, Sir Nigel could not resent their action, and say that in
his absence liberties had been taken. Such a course seemed businesslike and dignified.

It was what Betty felt that her father would do. Nothing could be complained of, which was
done with the knowledge and under the sanction of the family solicitors.

"Then there are other things we must do. We must go to shops and theatres. It will be good
for you to go to shops and theatres, Rosy."

"I have nothing but rags to wear," answered Lady Anstruthers, reddening.

"Then before we go we will have things sent down. People can be sent from the shops to arrange
what we want."

The magic of the name, standing for great wealth, could, it was true, bring to them, not only
the contents of shops, but the people who showed them, and were ready to carry out any orders.
The name of Vanderpoel already stood, in London, for inexhaustible resource. Yes, it was simple
enough to send for politely subservient saleswomen to bring what one wanted.

The being reminded in every-day matters of the still real existence of the power of this magic
was the first step in the rebuilding of Lady Anstruthers. To realise that the wonderful and
yet simple necromancy was gradually encircling her again, had its parallel in the taking of
a tonic, whose effect was cumulative. She herself did not realise the working of it. But Betty
regarded it with interest. She saw it was good for her, merely to look on at the unpacking
of the New York boxes, which the maid, sent for from London, brought down with her.

As the woman removed, from tray after tray, the tissue-paper-enfolded layers of garments, Lady
Anstruthers sat and watched her with normal, simply feminine interest growing in her eyes.
The things were made with the absence of any limit in expenditure, the freedom with delicate
stuffs and priceless laces which belonged only to her faint memories of a lost past.

Nothing had limited the time spent in the embroidering of this apparently simple linen frock
and coat; nothing had restrained the hand holding the scissors which had cut into the lace
which adorned in appliques and filmy frills this exquisitely charming ball dress.

"It is looking back so far," she said, waving her hand towards them with an odd gesture. "To
think that it was once all like--like that."

She got up and went to the things, turning them over, and touching them with a softness, almost
expressing a caress. The names of the makers stamped on bands and collars, the names of the
streets in which their shops stood, moved her. She heard again the once familiar rattle of
wheels, and the rush and roar of New York traffic.

Betty carried on the whole matter with lightness. She talked easily and casually, giving local
colour to what she said. She described the abnormally rapid growth of the places her sister
had known in her teens, the new buildings, new theatres, new shops, new people, the later mode
of living, much of it learned from England, through the unceasing weaving of the Shuttle.

"Changing--changing--changing. That is what it is always doing--America. We have not reached
repose yet. One wonders how long it will be before we shall. Now we are always hurrying breathlessly
after the next thing--the new one--which we always think will be the better one. Other countries
built themselves slowly. In the days of their building, the pace of life was a march. When
America was born, the march had already begun to hasten, and as a nation we began, in our first
hour, at the quickening speed. Now the pace is a race. New York is a kaleidoscope. I myself
can remember it a wholly different thing. One passes down a street one day, and the next there
is a great gap where some building is being torn down--a few days later, a tall structure of
some sort is touching the sky. It is wonderful, but it does not tend to calm the mind. That
is why we cross the Atlantic so much. The sober, quiet-loving blood our forbears brought from
older countries goes in search of rest. Mixed with other things, I feel in my own being a resentment
against newness and disorder, and an insistence on the atmosphere of long-established things."

But for years Lady Anstruthers had been living in the atmosphere of long-established things,
and felt no insistence upon it. She yearned to hear of the great, changing Western world--of
the great, changing city. Betty must tell her what the changes were. What were the differences
in the streets--where had the new buildings been placed? How had Fifth Avenue and Madison Avenue
and Broadway altered? Were not Gramercy Park and Madison Square still green with grass and
trees? Was it all different? Would she not know the old places herself? Though it seemed a
lifetime since she had seen them, the years which had passed were really not so many.

It was good for her to talk and be talked to in this manner Betty saw. Still handling her subject
lightly, she presented picture after picture. Some of them were of the wonderful, feverish
city itself--the place quite passionately loved by some, as passionately disliked by others.
She herself had fallen into the habit, as she left childhood behind her, of looking at it with
interested wonder--at its riot of life and power, of huge schemes, and almost superhuman labours,
of fortunes so colossal that they seemed monstrosities in their relation to the world. People
who in Rosalie's girlhood had lived in big ugly brownstone fronts, had built for themselves
or for their children, houses such as, in other countries, would have belonged to nobles and
princes, spending fortunes upon their building, filling them with treasures brought from foreign
lands, from palaces, from art galleries, from collectors. Sometimes strange people built such
houses and lived strange lavish, ostentatious lives in them, forming an overstrained, abnormal,
pleasure-chasing world of their own. The passing of even ten years in New York counted itself
almost as a generation; the fashions, customs, belongings of twenty years ago wore an air of
almost picturesque antiquity.

"It does not take long to make an 'old New Yorker,'" she said. "Each day brings so many new ones."

There were, indeed, many new ones, Lady Anstruthers found. People who had been poor had become
hugely rich, a few who had been rich had become poor, possessions which had been large had
swelled to unnatural proportions. Out of the West had risen fortunes more monstrous than all
others. As she told one story after another, Bettina realised, as she had done often before,
that it was impossible to enter into description of the life and movements of the place, without
its curiously involving some connection with the huge wealth of it--with its influence, its
rise, its swelling, or waning.

"Somehow one cannot free one's self from it. This is the age of wealth and invention--but of
wealth before all else. Sometimes one is tired--tired of it."

"You would not be tired of it if--well, if you were I, said Lady Anstruthers rather pathetically.

"Perhaps not," Betty answered. "Perhaps not."

She herself had seen people who were not tired of it in the sense in which she was--the men
and women, with worn or intently anxious faces, hastening with the crowds upon the pavements,
all hastening somewhere, in chase of that small portion of the wealth which they earned by
their labour as their daily share; the same men and women surging towards elevated railroad
stations, to seize on places in the homeward-bound trains; or standing in tired-looking groups,
waiting for the approach of an already overfull street car, in which they must be packed together,
and swing to the hanging straps, to keep upon their feet. Their way of being weary of it would
be different from hers, they would be weary only of hearing of the mountains of it which rolled
themselves up, as it seemed, in obedience to some irresistible, occult force.

On the day after Stornham village had learned that her ladyship and Miss Vanderpoel had actually
gone to London, the dignified firm of Townlinson & Sheppard received a visit which created
some slight sensation in their establishment, though it had not been entirely unexpected. It
had, indeed, been heralded by a note from Miss Vanderpoel herself, who had asked that the appointment
be made. Men of Messrs. Townlinson & Sheppard's indubitable rank in their profession could
not fail to know the significance of the Vanderpoel name. They knew and understood its weight
perfectly well. When their client had married one of Reuben Vanderpoel's daughters, they had
felt that extraordinary good fortune had befallen him and his estate. Their private opinion
had been that Mr. Vanderpoel's knowledge of his son-in-law must have been limited, or that
he had curiously lax American views of paternal duty. The firm was highly reputable, long established
strictly conservative, and somewhat insular in its point of view. It did not understand, or
seek to understand, America. It had excellent reasons for thoroughly understanding Sir Nigel
Anstruthers. Its opinions of him it reserved to itself. If Messrs. Townlinson & Sheppard had
been asked to give a daughter into their client's keeping, they would have flatly refused to
accept the honour proposed. Mr. Townlinson had, indeed, at the time of the marriage, admitted
in strict confidence to his partner that for his part he would have somewhat preferred to follow
a daughter of his own to her tomb. After the marriage the firm had found the situation confusing
and un-English. There had been trouble with Sir Nigel, who had plainly been disappointed. At
first it had appeared that the American magnate had shown astuteness in refraining from leaving
his son-in-law a free hand. Lady Anstruthers' fortune was her own and not her husband's. Mr.
Townlinson, paying a visit to Stornham and finding the bride a gentle, childish-looking girl,
whose most marked expression was one of growing timorousness, had returned with a grave face.
He foresaw the result, if her family did not stand by her with firmness, which he also foresaw
her husband would prevent if possible. It became apparent that the family did not stand by
her--or were cleverly kept at a distance. There was a long illness, which seemed to end in
the seclusion from the world, brought about by broken health. Then it was certain that what
Mr. Townlinson had foreseen had occurred. The inexperienced girl had been bullied into submission.
Sir Nigel had gained the free hand, whatever the means he had chosen to employ. Most improper--most
improper, the whole affair. He had a great deal of money, but none of it was used for the benefit
of the estate--his deformed boy's estate. Advice, dignified remonstrance, resulted only in
most disagreeable scenes. And still be
the more the wonder of it when his wise guidance touch certain springs, open windows in belly
and chest to the figures mentioned above and to lift them gently and without any damage the brains
out. The Athenian then exclaim, like the character in a celebrated zarzuela:

      Today the advance science that
    is an outrage.

Indeed, thanks to a skillful mechanics, aided by the wonderful chemistry and other disciplines,
in the interior of each figure starts to move the heart, blood flows by arteries and veins,
lungs and air takes with him a thousand operations, and, finally, and not tired, go up the
brains many atoms of phosphorus and other volatile essences are sneak in there like he owned the
place, several celulillas, and little time, as the Gusarapo, worms and other caterpillars, butterflies
come, Beatilla and mosquitoes, many varied flows thoughts and feelings, good and evil, which can quickly
become crimes or deeds, in moralizing or subversive speeches, works
of charity or rapes and murders.

Pericles then have to confess that this is exquisite and deep, as
he calls Mr. Reyles to his art.

What does not confess, which blindly deny, is that it is fine art such mischief.

And still we go from bad to worse in this matter of fine art, if the figures shows that the cicerone
Pericles are made for the study of internal diseases, and is within them how they form tumors, fistulas,
ulcers, growths and all sorts of pupae. The poor Pericles, perhaps wrongly imagined that the arts
serve to amuse, soothe and lift spirit, just get with this brand new art fair to be up and upset
your stomach, and force him to make a libation in honor of Aesculapius with Cyprus wine you had
on your last supper next to his beautiful Aspasia, which has been
preserved in the tomb, for twenty centuries, and that made you dream
a thousand divine beauties there.

Now apply to the pleasant literature of the statues which have said.

Easy is to get the following consequences:

That such literature should you remove the epithet enjoyable.

If it is not pleasant is not helpful either, because it upsets us and afflicts the poor showing, with
all disgusting and horrible details and does not offer any remedy.

That even if this literature is very scientific fashion, exquisite and deep, yet can deny that
it is well underway literature, but mere extravagance, and tends
not to amuse, but to teach, in order to be fulfilled better than novels,
with physiological lectures, pathological, histological and teratological.

And

those who sustain the progress of threatened rare literature, novels based on the fashion, assume,
not a decline in everything else, this would be less bad, but progress and growth horrible perversion
and corruption of the human, whose paint is thoroughly Case of the novels above.

If science had shown that evil is inevitable, which is explained by determinism vices and virtues,
imagination and faith schools should be dismissed as anachronistic and and that only we have
hope or on earth or in heaven, very dismal and evil Science had made progress, but progress would
end and we should respect him, and we should bow our heads and resign. All this science distressing
us teach, digging a heart in a fist, and full of fear and disgust, it would be nice entered
in scientific treatise, courses and epitomes, but in the novels often by people who has not won
a tassel at the universities, all could go Trabucador and although it came out, would not
novel either, but poorly digested hodgepodge of science, fantastic
accessible to all, and would stir interest only and not as a simple
art works and healthy, but our nerves overwrought like potions and
liniments pharmaceutical that make us see horrific visions and to
which we fans a perverse curiosity.

I feel that the ink is still a lot to say, but I can not help it,
and making point here, I leave for another day.

III

I had thought not to bother again readers of The Liberal flowing and meditating aesthetic issues
in relation to novels, but as I suffer from some ailment, before and today called cacohetes
scribendi graphomania call, had already written my third article on progress in the art of
the word, and I had not dared to send him to The Liberal. My intent was and is writing on the
subject as I come up and then reunite in a book, printing it very small number of copies. So,
now I see The Liberal an article in which my illustrious friend, Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán, seeks to
challenge what I said and even what I have said. Me not a little flattered that Dona Emilia
is used in this, but I will not pass because it gives me views that I have not delivered. I never
said I that the novels of Zola, Daudet, Goncourt, Tolstoy, Ibsen, etc., are bad. On the contrary,
I said that may be so good and so excellent, that the writing, the same donut Emilia, Pereda, Galdós,
Jacinto Octavio Picon, Armando Palacio Valdés and several others, without I exclude, will obrillas
insubstantial, and absolutely devoid of epidermal education and transcendence. But this would
be that Spain and the Spanish are decayed and even left hand of God, so that, just as there is
now Gonzalo de Cordoba, Polite, Pizarro and Cisneros, there is also Cervantes. And there will
be that there is an art exquisite and profound just invented out of Spain produced such wonders,
leaving bewildered and bowlegged, and moving to mimic the perpetrators of such wonders, to see
if bothered to find out the brand new procedure that make them giddy and the whole world with our
novels as you giddy them. I did not say neither more nor less than what I repeat now, albeit
heavy, but even if it is heavy, as Dona Emilia gives me the opportunity
to do so, I will continue my meditations aesthetic, inserting here
is my third article for fear that of exhausting the public remained
unpublished, and is as follows:

The only thing I am truly sorry and
that sometimes leads me to regret having made deal very complicated
issue is the multitude of aspects under which substantial amount and
extension therefore I have to give this writing.

Moreover, my conviction is ever stronger the more I think about it, but I believe useless or
of little importance explain and defend what my thinking is presented as true opinions against
me seem false and even absurd. I'm not excited about the national pride and singular, not affirm
nor deny, but I for cheap, to pave the way for the discussion, removing tripping medium, in French
and Russian novels of the day are much better than those in Spain are written. Ingenuity, inspiration,
and a joke, have perhaps migrated from Spain. I do not want deny it, I'm just sorry. What I
deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery,
and the superiority of the novels French and Russian on our own, are that those are written
in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is progress, as we technician
or call the office, but, well I admit, I recognize also that technical and progressive literature,
little importance compared with the essential it, in which there
is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance. Hence,
in a sense, may well be argued that it is more difficult to make a shoe that compose a poem. And
it is still easier and requires less propaedeutic writing a novel for which, prosody, art meter
and rhyming dictionary care little or nothing. So conceived, without any surprise, the vast number
of novels that make up now English, French, Russian, Italian, German, Hungarian, Polish, in
short, almost all the languages ​​spoken and written in the various civilized countries of
the five parts of mondo. The office is easy to learn and the better instrument for making or
manufacture, or tongue or pen, is handled with less effort and more naturally, not because the
chisel or the brush but the spade or hoe, where something everyone educated type or write
novels. So the material cost is spent on writing them less and is more affordable to everyone
that spent on other duties. For three thousand pesetas bought sheets of paper, which, while
not smearing but one hand comfortably fit two novels not short dimensions.

Could it be that this same abundance of novels need to employ an exquisite art and deep to stand
out from all others which we write? I deny roundly. Good taste, the delicate aesthetic judgments,
if not in contradiction creates considerable confusion on this point. For anyone refined and
cultured, Prosper Mérimée and Theophilus Gauthier, for example, are best novelists that Eugene
Sue and Ponson du Terrail, and yet, and Colomba, or Captain Fracasse
have been the twentieth part of the favor of the public, sale and
the applause that The Mysteries of Paris, or the endless adventures
of Rocambole.

"This will consist in Sue and Ponson du Terrail use the fine art and deep Gauthier and Mérimée
ignored or that of the general public has a bad taste, is long overdue and still prefer the
coarse to fine? Or does it consist in the real fine art and depth has not come to be discovered,
only recently, when Mérimée and Gauthier were already dead and buried, and by virtue of the public
art have opened the eyes of minds to understand the good, and Zola, Daudet, Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy,
they have opened the springs and legitimate sources of inspiration to produce works that not
only pleasing in the day, but that already contain the germ, if not in flower, the sublime novel
future, compared with which Don Quixote is a work surface, epidermal inconsequential, without education
and pastime?

If things were like, fashion and would be fashionable. The right way, art infallible to write novels
would be found, and for the world should stay away from him, not mislead us or stay behind.

I warn you, however, that these novels, written with exquisite art and deep commends both Mr.
Reyles, but are read, admired and imitated by those who are fanatically Paris fashion, presumably
falling into oblivion, and even contempt, when fashion go and come another fad. It is possible that
then everything today is subtlety, novelty and depth, look flashy
and heavy false affectation.

The truth is, the most popular novels, which have been sold in the
world right recent years they have had in appearance at least, the
more influence on political events and social, not written in Paris
and the fashion in Paris, but putting in a certain and impetuous current
of opinion, leaving away by it, increasing its spirit and spreading
over its action on the human spirit.

Thus, novels, not of fine art and deep, but with little or no art, though written in a happy
moment and appropriate, have achieved more success, have had greater resonance, they imported more on social
changes in the great historical facts, that all this novelty as praised by Mr. Reyles.

Take for example of what I say Uncle Tom's Cabin, by Mrs. Beecher
Stowe, the which is then sold hundreds of thousands of copies, resulting
in all languages, perhaps inflamed abolitionist sentiments and went
for something in causes of the terrible Civil War.

It is, therefore, not deep and exquisite art, or the subtle and unprecedented teaching peregrina truths,
nor more than inspiration, and the refinement of the latest fashions from Paris, nor the delicacy of
style, and other rare pieces of literature, giving the palm and laurel wreath an author of
novels, is to reach a timely manner and without fear of being dragged current.

Further evidence of the truth itself gives us a novel of Mr. Bellamy,
Anglo-American citizen also, a novel which sold nearly four hundred
thousand copies, a little to see the public.

The novel was what we call a socialist or communist utopia. Imagined the author in the not too
distant future. The social revolution had already been done. The new system regular and going
nicely. The whole world had become a real city of Cockaigne, and the human race eat, drink,
be entertained and worked little, without haste or misery.

The novel Mr. Bellamy came on time and it owes its success. Well it could be said so with much
less reason to say that Voltaire said blinds Montesquien Letters: These letters blinds so
easy to compose! ¡...!

I do not intend to lower or praise here the merits of French and Russian
novels, which commends Mr. Reyles, or these other American novels
that I have mentioned.

I say only that they have been timely, and is this a great achievement. Also, I when I write novels,
I try to be timely, and if I'm not, it's because you miss the opportunity. But what does the
opportunity a fine art and newly invented deep with our novels make you feel appropriate men of our
time more deeply than it did with other appropriate novels others feel the public of past
centuries in which they lived? This is the farce I do not admit and that seduced Mr. Reyles. This
is the hablerie and (let me the expression) the Parisian blague, why, is that with all due respect,
I think is also somewhat discreet and eloquent seduced my friend Dona Emilia Pardo Bazan, who
still write better than they write and compose original works and spontaneous, if left less influenced
by such blague.

La blague up point if further argues that the novel of the day should be crammed education, all
documents should be human and contain more profound doctrine that of books intended to teach and not
to delight. Would be curious if anyone studies history in Alexandre Dumas, geology and cosmography
in Jules Verne, Zola sociology, in psychology Bourget, and internal pathology in several other novelists.

Course,
who writes a novel, and takes for items or materials which write cases of ordinary life and ordinary
observed by him, you can also take doctrines, beliefs, hopes, dreams, religious and metaphysical
ideas, and resolution everything fits in the human mind and shakes. But taking all this as elements
of Art is not appropriate in my view, that strives to be didactic, because they expose you to
teach less and worse than what you teach the poorest of the manuals and go back on his vocation
as an artist, without creating the beauty and aesthetic delight without producing the vain efforts
of patenting and unprecedented disclose truths.

It is noteworthy, finally, that it contain the science in art, far from progress in a way no turning
back. Science has broadened so much that does not fit the mold artistic even though the mold and also
widen to become deformed, as in the novel, where an author can flow
freely over all things and many more.

However, a perfect work of literary art can not but confined within certain terms. What put them
off to have some monstrous impertinence. And in this meaning I will not deny that a novel therapy
can be taught, political economy, theology mystical metallurgy or as desired.

If it is fashionable stuff in all these novels, novels like fashion while duration, such is
the power of fashion, but beyond it, no human being who suffers the
novel teacher.

 Angry duns, beggarliness of income, scarcity of the necessaries and luxuries which
dignity of rank demanded, the indifference and slights of one's equals, and the ignoring of
one's existence by exalted persons, were all hideous enough to Lord Mount Dunstan and his elder
son--but they were not so hideous as was, to his younger son, the childish, shamed frenzy of
awakening to the truth that he was one of a bad lot--a disgraceful lot, from whom nothing was
expected but shifty ways, low vices, and scandals, which in the end could not even be kept
out of the newspapers. The day came, in fact, when the worst of these was seized upon by them
and filled their sheets with matter which for a whole season decent London avoided reading,
and the fast and indecent element laughed, derided, or gloated over.

The memory of the fever of the monstrous weeks which had passed at this time was not one it
was wise for a man to recall. But it was not to be forgotten--the hasty midnight arrival at
Mount Dunstan of father and son, their haggard, nervous faces, their terrified discussions,
and argumentative raging when they were shut up together behind locked doors, the appearance
of legal advisers who looked as anxious as themselves, but failed to conceal the disgust with
which they were battling, the knowledge that tongues were clacking almost hysterically in the
village, and that curious faces hurried to the windows when even a menial from the great house
passed, the atmosphere of below-stairs whispers, and jogged elbows, and winks, and giggles;
the final desperate, excited preparations for flight, which might be ignominiously stopped
at any moment by the intervention of the law, the huddling away at night time, the hot-throated
fear that the shameful, self-branding move might be too late--the burning humiliation of knowing
the inevitable result of public contempt or laughter when the world next day heard that the
fugitives had put the English Channel between themselves and their country's laws.

Lord Tenham had died a few years later at Port Said, after descending into all the hells of
degenerate debauch. His father had lived longer--long enough to make of himself something horribly
near an imbecile, before he died suddenly in Paris. The Mount Dunstan who succeeded him, having
spent his childhood and boyhood under the shadow of the "bad lot," had the character of being
a big, surly, unattractive young fellow, whose eccentricity presented itself to those who knew
his stock, as being of a kind which might develop at any time into any objectionable tendency.
His bearing was not such as allured, and his fortune was not of the order which placed a man
in the view of the world. He had no money to expend, no hospitalities to offer and apparently
no disposition to connect himself with society. His wild-goose chase to America had, when it
had been considered worth while discussing at all, been regarded as being very much the kind
of thing a Mount Dunstan might do with some secret and disreputable end in view. No one had
heard the exact truth, and no one would have been inclined to believe if they had heard it.
That he had lived as plain Jem Salter, and laboured as any hind might have done, in desperate
effort and mad hope, would not have been regarded as a fact to be credited. He had gone away,
he had squandered money, he had returned, he was at Mount Dunstan again, living the life of
an objectionable recluse--objectionable, because the owner of a place like Mount Dunstan should
be a power and an influence in the county, should be counted upon as a dispenser of hospitalities,
as a supporter of charities, as a dignitary of weight. He was none of these--living no one
knew how, slouching about with his gun, riding or walking sullenly over the roads and marshland.

Just one man knew him intimately, and this one had been from his fifteenth year the sole friend
of his life. He had come, then--the Reverend Lewis Penzance--a poor and unhealthy scholar,
to be vicar of the parish of Dunstan. Only a poor and book-absorbed man would have accepted
the position. What this man wanted was no more than quiet, pure country air to fill frail lungs,
a roof over his head, and a place to pore over books and manuscripts. He was a born monk and
celibate--in by-gone centuries he would have lived peacefully in some monastery, spending his
years in the reading and writing of black letter and the illuminating of missals. At the vicarage
he could lead an existence which was almost the same thing.

At Mount Dunstan there remained still the large remnant of a great library. A huge room whose
neglected and half emptied shelves contained some strange things and wonderful ones, though
all were in disorder, and given up to dust and natural dilapidation. Inevitably the Reverend
Lewis Penzance had found his way there, inevitably he had gained indifferently bestowed permission
to entertain himself by endeavouring to reduce to order and to make an attempt at cataloguing.
Inevitably, also, the hours he spent in the place became the chief sustenance of his being.

There, one day, he had come upon an uncouth-looking boy with deep eyes and a shaggy crop of
red hair. The boy was poring over an old volume, and was plainly not disposed to leave it.
He rose, not too graciously, and replied to the elder man's greeting, and the friendly questions
which followed. But it occurred very frequently these wrecks by foresight or boldness, without any news
of them stay ... If the sea could tell all dramas ignored the discovery!

Dr. Zurita nodded gravely. Much had cost Spain its large overseas companies. Perhaps this came from
its decline.

- That's right - said Ojeda -. Some attribute this decline to the European wars, but the nations
that fought with us experienced the same loss, why not waned ... Others blame the excessive
religiosity that got us into absurd business. Maybe may be true, but in part no more. Then there
was so fanatical nations like ours, and yet were not in danger of death ... The main cause of
our decadence, or rather, our anemia, to be found in the colonization of the Indies. Body heals from
injuries received, so tremendous they are. The danger, the mortal, is a bleeding lasting for years,
lasting centuries inatajable flow escaping the life ...

Fernando described the old Spain and one of those mothers who go too prolific on his legs a
little hesitant, among their children, big men, strong, smiling with health trust. They suffer
all the diseases and have no: his only ailment is some weakness, anemia, lack of a life that has
been dividing and wasting generously.

Each child has a shred of their existence.

- And you go figure - continued Ojeda - what it represents for Spain giving birth by two dozen
puppies that are across the sea to live on their own, some developed
and cultivated, some impulsive and Rangers, but all of his blood and
his name and the illusions of youth.

Maltrana nodded at those words, but adding his own opinion. The evil of Spain had was not to
rest until old age.

- Our country is for its history something like a boiling pot centuries without that no one
apart from the fire to cool its contents. The great nations of Europe, after boiling flux during
which blended their races and their antagonisms are erased, could rest in peace. This rest
has served to solidify, aggrandize and acquire new strengths. Spain no, Spain knew no rest. For
seven centuries boiling bubbling with the struggles of racial and religious antagonisms. At last check
of However the merger of the various ingredients.

Already made the national mix, as rather badly, but it is made. We must remove the vessel from fire
to crystallize content and is more than liquid and vapors.

But at this critical moment, Spain, discovered the Indies and was monarchical alliances owns
half of Europe. And instead of resting, boil again with a major fire, swelled with a bubbling crazy,
absurd, the most extraordinary, daring and insolent that records the History. A relatively
small nation, badly placed at one end of the old world, and also
sought to unite to expel the Spanish Jews and Muslims differently
because religion, undertook the same time the company to colonize
half the globe and keep under distant authority European nations were
not in their language or race.

And the fluid, swollen by the fire, took great proportions, seeming much more larger than it
really was, spread in waves outside the vessel to be lost without useless, until they finally
turn off the fire. And when the pot rested at last cooling, had only minor debris inside. Maybe
he had escaped vapors glorious and was scattered throughout the world
in patches, in small lumps, without forming a dough.

- Oh, if we
had rested in time as other people! - Said Maltrana -.

If there after a century or two between the national constitution and our great company! ...
But leg stretch beyond the sheet, which was short. Never has there been a waste living and
glorious energies and useless.

Dr. Zurita protested the latter.

- Useless no. In regard to companies in Europe, undoubtedly ... But is the America, all Spanish-speaking
republics, and that beyond their constitutional differences national
are the same for his soul and customs.

Ojeda nodded. The crazy waste of Spanish power had only been breeding
in the Indies.

Traveling in various republics of the New World in his time as a diplomat, had appreciated
the historic grandeur of Spain better than reading books apologetic.

In a cold-weather American country where they grew in Europe as well as pine and fir and the
mountains were topped with snow, came to meet the traveler the Castilian language, and with it
the old colonial houses shields the gate and chanted solemn lords ways similar to the old gentlemen.
Even the president was wearing a name and sound stale, like that of the gallants of swashbuckling
comedy of Calderon. Then, jump to another country with coconut palms and tangled forest, with rivers
and seas, plains infernal burning, smoldering volcanoes and lakes top suspended between neighboring
ridges the clouds found again dressed in white, with straw hat in hand, the same polite and
ceremonious gentleman, the lady standing short Andalusian eyes, discreet, playful and devoted
to Lope as a stuffy, the old colonial convent towers encaperuzadas of tiles that tell the ringing
of the hours in the evenings or nights burning moon on streets of bars impregnated with perfume
bellied orange and jasmine.

And another president he received in audience, displaying a name of old stock, and was identical
to others in gentlemanly demeanor and his exploits willed and courageous leader.

From the borders of Texas to the ice of Magellan, Spain lived and live for ages the doctor judgmental,
transatlantic, a descendant of Salamanca and Alcala, in the gracious lady and devotion that
mimics the latest news from the sleek exterior, but saved the soul
of his grandmothers in the adventurous leader renews the other side
of the medieval romances Ocean of the Peninsula, in the overwhelming
admiration for the courage and audacity to feel the most enlightened,
placing the courage above all human virtues.

Continental cataclysm could sink the Iberian Peninsula under water, and if this disappeared
with nation of Spain, why not going to die people of Spain, the word Spain, the Spanish soul. Across
the sea in the Atlantic and Pacific, or docked on the slopes de los Andes condors' nests, there were
thousands of cities unified by language, customs and peculiar concept of honor. Eighty million people
speak the Castilian and thought of him.

Catholicism, a strong and dominant in American nations, weak and compromising in others, was also a
traditional force that kept alive the past, common to them all.

The Europeans learned Spanish to communicate with the young people of America. The Castilian
was the third world language with its distribution in the New World.

Reborn in Spain greenery and beauty of their daughters.

- And this
is something - said Ojeda -.

Our other crazy waste of time is not lost at all because of America.

His friends nodded. No, not lost.

- Only a country like the Peninsula - continued Ojeda - African climate and at the same time freezing
cold plateaus, could give a race prepared for the colonization of a world so large and diverse.
So it is understandable that only a very men arrived to found cities which are more than two thousand
feet, where breathing is difficult, and cities at sea level under the Ecuador, in an atmosphere
of hell.

Only people and living sober Spanish hard as he could undertake the business of populating
a world where people were still more sober and had little to eat
or not had absolutely nothing.

The danger for the conqueror Arrow was not Indian, are loneliness and vast distances, and above
all, was hunger.

Zurita intervened, with the precipitation of you heard about something she knows better than
their partners.

- That much I can say. I've settled, you know, friend? ... I have lived in the desert and there
I knew what had been the former Spanish and how much we owe ... We we have wronged them. We educate
bad patriotism inculcated us lies from childhood. When I went to school were now more alive
than the hatred of the struggle for Independence, and that he had spent more than half a century.
Spain was a cruel stepmother Spanish and a "Galician" Gross, who had only managed to enslave and exploit
... And this was taught in Spanish, and also the teacher and students wore all Spanish surnames.
We talked about the "Galician" like a barbaric people who had conquered our country when it
was formed and in full civilization, delaying progress, which we
had gloriously expelled after three centuries of tyranny ... Man continued
in the same ignorance.

Those who are born in a city already made do not ask how it formed
and who laid her foundations.

When we want out of it, is to go Raging Europe and emulation seeing that there are things better
than ours. Never look back or we care about our origins.

The doctor paused, as if he molested a bad memory.

- I myself - he said - I feel some remorse at the thought of my grandfather. Poor lord! When
a boy got angry with him, called him "Galician" and recalled the
great deeds of Independence who had served as my ideas for the country
to kick a band of foreign operators ... Traveling through the interior
of my land, I saw clearly, I realized the suffering and works of men
who were spreading across the desert of civilization time.

Only those who live in cities and do not take the field (the field that have not yet uncultured
know the hand of man) can talk with contempt of our remote ancestors.

The doctor recalled his early life, when he had recently colonized virgin lands abandoned by the
Indian.

- I had to suffer all kinds of deprivation: even went hungry many times. And that was near
the railroad, and rivers could be traced in steamships instead of going to paddle and the liner
I had in less than a month orders for Europe ... Then I realized what did the Spanish first,
with no other means of communication that the herd or the cart, having to take six to eight
months to go the distance to save the day railroad in two or three days. When they wanted to
trace the Paraná, going from Buenos Aires Assumption rowing and sailing by the revolts of the
river, this trip cost them three times time to go to Spain. Ships of the Peninsula came very
infrequently, if not wrecked. And despite many obstacles, our ancestors founded the nuclei of
the cities we now have, created the first herds, adapted to our soil Old World products, they
prepared everything for the Europeans who arrived after not starve
... The Spanish put the table in America, built and put seats bread.

This is an image that comes to mind. Then, other people have brought more advanced refined sauces
of civilization, beautiful table decorations, but not the first, prepared as necessary, there would
be no banquet.

- That's right - said Maltrana -.

But the life that occurs in the precise and never becomes vulgar the fame of which makes it superfluous
and enjoyable. Nobody knows who invented the bread and who wove the first web. No people have
been lifted statues. And you believe that inventors bread, cloth and cooking food were larger
and worthy of glory perpetrators of all the machines of our time.

- In the formation of the American countries - insisted Zurita - what happens in large buildings
which are now built.

Very few see the inside of steel scaffolding, no one wants to know the name of those who worked
on the deep foundations. The admiration is all for ornaments and "doodles" of the facade ... And
who settled our foundation and raised the sound of our palace, was
Spain.

The other villages have come much later, when for the decorations and balconies, to provide the
comfortable and cute. Most hard, thankless job masonry and dangerous, he did "old."

- And the more you want to raise your building - said Ojeda - the more grand and solemn I wish,
more will come down in search of the foundations to strengthen them, on pain of coming below.

-
Must have lived in the desert - continued the doctor - to realize what they brought with them
the conquerors and the services rendered to civilization. I suffered a lot to create my stay, and
yet, I thought, 'This horse brings me back and forth They brought the Spanish. Before coming
they did not exist. These cows and sheep these I can kill and eat brought them too. Biscuit in
my mouth I come from they sowed wheat first. " And I could not move in my poverty without finding
that the few comforts that surrounded me was the daring of the Spanish who came forward and
killed in the desert so that one day I could go at my time. And I wondered: "But what had
here before they arrived? What people ate ?...».

The people were poor, and to eat only had corn, cassava and guanaco
meat.

This from what I've seen in my country. They say that in Peru and Mexico had more resources,
because people was larger.

So should be, but I fear that there is much exaggerated stories of men of letters, fairy tales
... what you call "literature."

Ojeda, listening thoughtfully, spoke in turn.

- And you have to think, doctor, in efforts to bring the New World would cost each these products
for acclimatization in small vessels, crowded with people.

Crew and soldiers slept on the tables. The captains and characters had by all comfort a mat
rolled in poop. Provisions were salty or vinegary, to resist changes in temperature. The great calm
of the ocean were scarce with its long immobility water supply.

Many sold one by one the pieces of clothing in exchange a few glasses
of earthy and superheated liquid, and arrived naked at the end of
the trip.

And in the midst of this raging thirst, he must economize liquid to give drink to the horse
procreative bull, the cow's belly, the potted orange tree, the olive campus to all the new
animals and plants that had been there as a treasure, estimated at more than lives of men ... And
like so many troubles were not enough, had to fight their way gunfire
from enemy ships, English, Dutch or French, which, according to variations
Spanish politics, met them to prevent their travel.

- Spain - ended
Ojeda - gave America everything he had, good and bad.

- And no more
because he had no - said Zurita -.

The other countries I do not believe that they had more to give at that time ... But we, legitimate
descendants of the Spanish we have inherited from them the evil tongue, the tendency to speak
against Spain and make it accountable everything.

- Here we have the friend Perez - Maltrana laughed, that handsome color uploaded admires England
even in dreams. That responsibility to the motherland of all of America: drying or excessive
rains, the laziness of the Indians, to the scarcity of railways.

-
Bad heritage language, it is true - said Ojeda -.

Proud Spanish individualism, believed to be disappointed by his country and spoke against
him at all hours, convinced that at birth in another land would have been much larger.

- An injustice - says Zurita - is also so much about the cruelty of the Spanish with Indian.
How to civilize a land without people sweeping before the occupation if they object to this
civilization? ... In the former Spanish America, the most advanced
peoples are now those with less Indian.

In the United States are so few, trained in circus as a curiosity. In my country only on the
borders of North and fewer and fewer. Chile no longer bears more than a taste of the old Arauca.

- It's funny - Maltrana said smiling again -. Almost all the American republics in his hatred of Spain,
have sung the primitive Indian, who stood up to the conquerors, painting as a hero possessor
of all virtues. But many of these republics, after independence, have dedicated themselves
to kill the Indian, to suppress it with a cooler and reasoned cruelty that of the viceroys and
governors, to organize the methodical destruction and the distribution
of children, that there was not seed ... Grandchildren of Galicia
and the Basques have sung Attempts Indian rebellion against the mother,
seeing in them the first wailing Independence, when there were more
than race riots, revolts color.
Sir Nigel Anstruthers is not often at Stornham. He is away now. It is plainly not he who is
interested in repairs."

"He is on the Riviera, in retreat, in a place he is fond of," Mount Dunstan said drily. "He
took a companion with him. A new infatuation. He will not return soon."

CHAPTER XIX

SPRING IN BOND STREET

The visit to London was part of an evolution of both body and mind to Rosalie Anstruthers.
In one of the wonderful modern hotels a suite of rooms was engaged for them. The luxury which
surrounded them was not of the order Rosalie had vaguely connected with hotels. Hotel-keepers
had apparently learned many things during the years of her seclusion.

Vanderpoels, at least, could so establish themselves as not to greatly feel the hotel atmosphere.
Carefully chosen colours textures, and appointments formed the background of their days, the
food they ate was a thing produced by art, the servants who attended them were completely-trained
mechanisms. To sit by a window and watch the kaleidoscopic human tide passing by on its way
to its pleasure, to reach its work, to spend its money in unending shops, to show itself and
its equipage in the park, was a wonderful thing to Lady Anstruthers. It all seemed to be a
part of the life and quality of Betty, little Betty, whom she had remembered only as a child,
and who had come to her a tall, strong young beauty, who had--it was resplendently clear--never
known a fear in her life, and whose mere personality had the effect of making fears seem unreal.

She was taken out in a luxurious little brougham to shops whose varied allurements were placed
eagerly at her disposal. Respectful persons, obedient to her most faintly-expressed desire,
displayed garments as wonderful as those the New York trunks had revealed. She was besought
to consider the fitness of articles whose exquisiteness she was almost afraid to look at. Her
thin little body was wonderfully fitted, managed, encouraged to make the most of its long-ignored
outlines.

"Her ladyship's slenderness is a great advantage," said the wisely inciting ones. "There is
no such advantage as delicacy of line."

Summing up the character of their customer with the saleswoman's eye, they realised the discretion
of turning to Miss Vanderpoel for encouragement, though she was the younger of the two, and
bore no title. They were aware of the existence of persons of rank who were not lavish patrons,
but the name of Vanderpoel held most promising suggestions. To an English shopkeeper the American
has, of late years, represented the spender--the type which, whatsoever its rank and resources,
has, mysteriously, always money to hand over counters in exchange for things it chances to
desire to possess. Each year surges across the Atlantic a horde of these fortunate persons,
who, to the sober, commercial British mind, appear to be free to devote their existences to
travel and expenditure. This contingent appears shopping in the various shopping thoroughfares;
it buys clothes, jewels, miscellaneous attractive things, making its purchases of articles
useful or decorative with a freedom from anxiety in its enjoyment which does not mark the mood
of the ordinary shopper. In the everyday purchaser one is accustomed to take for granted, as
a factor in his expenditure, a certain deliberation and uncertainty; to the travelling American
in Europe, shopping appears to be part of the holiday which is being made the most of. Surely,
all the neat, smart young persons who buy frocks and blouses, hats and coats, hosiery and chains,
cannot be the possessors of large incomes; there must be, even in America, a middle class of
middle-class resources, yet these young persons, male and female, and most frequently unaccompanied
by older persons--seeing what they want, greet it with expressions of pleasure, waste no time
in appropriating and paying for it, and go away as in relief and triumph--not as in that sober
joy which is clouded by afterthought. The boat and cargo care less ... Iban seven men in it, and I have
also sailed well ... Strive to ensure that families do not lack bread.

Other times, his sorrow was sincere, and ironically expressing his lips pursed, "A government cutters
just captured a boat. "And everybody laughed, knowing that Toni left some months you cogiesen
a boat with some bundles of old snuff, so that pursuers may hold in this way a triumph. When there
was epidemic in ports Africa, the island authorities powerless to save a vast coastline, called
Toni, appealing to the patriotism of Mallorca, and the smuggler promised to temporarily stop in their
browsers or charging at another point to avoid infection.

Febrer had this tough guy, cheerful and generous, fraternal trust. Many times had told his troubles
to seek the advice of his peasant cunning. He, who was unable apply for a loan from friends of the Casino,
Tony accepted the money in difficult times money did not seem to
remember more the smuggler.

Upon meeting they shook hands.

"Have you been in Valldemossa ?...» knew Toni and her journey the ease with which the most
insignificant news circulating in the monotonous environment and
calmly in a provincial town eager curiosity.

- More feature - Toni
said in his Mallorcan farmer - something I think is a lie.

You say that you marry the Don Benito Valls atlota?

Febrer, amazed that they knew as soon as their purpose, dared not deny. Yes, it was true. Toni
just wanted to confess.

The smuggler made a gesture of repulsion, while his eyes, accustomed
to the biggest surprises, revealing awe.

- You are wrong, Jaime,
you are wrong.

She said gravely, as if addressing a solemn affair.

The sausage had with that friend of a trust that would not have dared
with any other ...

- But if I'm ruined, my dear Toni!

If none of what I have in my house is mine! If creditors only respect me in the hope of this
marriage! ...

Toni kept moving his head.

The rude peasant, the smuggler Adventures of laws, seemed stunned
by the news.

- Anyway, you are wrong.

You leave your troubles as you can, but otherwise ... Friends help
you.

"Marry you with a chueta? ...

Left him with a vigorous handshake, as if he saw him go into a danger death.

- You are wrong ... think about it - said reproachfully -. You are wrong, Jaime!

IV

When James got into his bed, three hours after midnight, he thought he saw in the dark the faces
of the master bedroom Valls and Toni Clapp.
Seemed to speak, as in the previous evening. "I object," repeated
the sailor with laughter ironic. "Do not do that," advised the smuggler
with a serious expression ...

He had spent the night at the Casino,
silent and sullen under the obsession of these protests. What was
your draft strange and absurd that it repelled chueta, despite be
an honor to his family, and that peasant rude and unscrupulous, who
lived almost outlaw? ...

It was true that the island this marriage
would produce scandals and protests, but what about him? ... Did not
he have the right to seek their salvation by any means? Was it a novelty
that people of the class tries to rebuild his fortune through a wedding?
 The saleswomen, even if they had not been devoured by alert curiosity, could
not have avoided seeing that her ladyship did not seem to know what should be bought, and that
Miss Vanderpoel did, though she did not direct her sister's selection, but merely seemed to
suggest with delicate restraint. Her taste was wonderfully perceptive. The things bought were
exquisite, but a little colourless woman could wear them all with advantage to her restrictions
of type.

As the brougham drove down Bond Street, Betty called Lady Anstruthers' attention to more than
one passer-by.

"Look, Rosy," she said. "There is Mrs. Treat Hilyar in the second carriage to the right. You
remember Josie Treat Hilyar married Lord Varick's son."

In the landau designated an elderly woman with wonderfully-dressed white hair sat smiling and
bowing to friends who were walking. Lady Anstruthers, despite her eagerness, shrank back a
little, hoping to escape being seen.

"Oh, it is the Lows she is speaking to--Tom and Alice--I did not know they had sailed yet."

The tall, well-groomed young man, with the nice, ugly face, was showing white teeth in a gay
smile of recognition, and his pretty wife was lightly waving a slim hand in a grey suede glove.

"How cheerful and nice-tempered they look," said Rosy. "Tom was only twenty when I saw him
last. Whom did he marry?"

"An English girl. Such a love. A Devonshire gentleman's daughter. In New York his friends called
her Devonshire Cream and Roses. She is one of the pretty, flushy, pink ones."

"How nice Bond Street is on a spring morning like this," said Lady Anstruthers. "You may laugh
at me for saying it, Betty, but somehow it seems to me more spring-like than the country."

"How clever of you!" laughed Betty. "There is so much truth in it." The people walking in the
sunshine were all full of spring thoughts and plans. The colours they wore, the flowers in
the women's hats and the men's buttonholes belonged to the season. The cheerful crowds of people
and carriages had a sort of rushing stir of movement which suggested freshness. Later in the
year everything looks more tired. Now things were beginning and everyone was rather inclined
to believe that this year would be better than last. "Look at the shop windows," said Betty,
"full of whites and pinks and yellows and blues--the colours of hyacinth and daffodil beds.
It seems as if they insist that there never has been a winter and never will be one. They insist
that there never was and never will be anything but spring."

"It's in the air." Lady Anstruthers' sigh was actually a happy one. "It is just what I used
to feel in April when we drove down Fifth Avenue."

Among the crowds of freshly-dressed passers-by, women with flowery hats and light frocks and
parasols, men with touches of flower-colour on the lapels of their coats, and the holiday look
in their faces, she noted so many of a familiar type that she began to look for and try to
pick them out with quite excited interest.

"I believe that woman is an American," she would say. "That girl looks as if she were a New
Yorker," again. "That man's face looks as if it belonged to Broadway. Oh, Betty! do you think
I am right? I should say those girls getting out of the hansom to go into Burnham & Staples'
came from out West and are going to buy thousands of things. Don't they look like it?"

She began to lean forward and look on at things with an interest so unlike her Stornham listlessness
that Betty's heart was moved.

Her face looked alive, and little waves of colour rose under her skin. Several times she laughed
the natural little laugh of her girlhood which it had seemed almost too much to expect to hear
again. The first of these laughs came when she counted her tenth American, a tall Westerner
of the cartoon type, sauntering along with an expression of speculative enjoyment on his odd
face, and evidently, though furtively, chewing tobacco.

"I absolutely love him, Betty," she cried. "You couldn't mistake him for anything else."

"No," answered Betty, feeling that she loved him herself, "not if you found him embalmed in
the Pyramids."

They pleased themselves immensely, trying to guess what he would buy and take home to his wife
and girls in his Western town--though Western towns were very grand and amazing in these days,
Betty explained, and knew they could give points to New York. He would not buy the things he
would have bought fifteen years ago. Perhaps, in fact, his wife and daughters had come with
him to London and stayed at the Metropole or the Savoy, and were at this moment being fitted
by tailors and modistes patronised by Royalty.

"Rosy, look! Do you see who that is? Do you recognise her? It is Mrs. Bellingham. She was little
Mina Thalberg. She married Captain Bellingham. He was quite poor, but very well born--a nephew
of Lord Dunholm's. He could not have married a poor girl--but they have been so happy together
that Mina is growing fat, and spends her days in taking reducing treatments. She says she wouldn't
care in the least, but Dicky fell in love with her waist and shoulder line."

The plump, pretty young woman getting out of her victoria before a fashionable hairdresser's
looked radiant enough. She had not yet lost the waist and shoulder line, though her pink frock
fitted her with discreet tightness. She paused a moment to pat and fuss prettily over the two
blooming, curly children who were to remain under the care of the nurse, who sat on the back
seat, holding the baby on her lap.

"I should not have known her," said Rosy. "She has grown pretty. She wasn't a pretty child."

"It's happiness--and the English climate--and Captain Dicky. They adore each other, and laugh
at everything like a pair of children. They were immensely popular in New York last winter,
when they visited Mina's people."

The effect of the morning upon Lady Anstruthers was what Betty had hoped it might be. The curious
drawing near of the two nations began to dawn upon her as a truth. Immured in the country,
not sufficiently interested in life to read newspapers, she had heard rumours of some of the
more important marriages, but had known nothing of the thousand small details which made for
the weaving of the web. Mrs. Treat Hilyar driving in a leisurely, accustomed fashion down Bond
Street, and smiling casually at her compatriots, whose "sailing" was as much part of the natural
order of their luxurious lives as their carriages, gave a definiteness to the situation. Mina
Thalberg, pulling down the embroidered frocks over the round legs of her English-looking children,
seemed to narrow the width of the Atlantic Ocean between Liverpool and the docks on the Hudson
River.

She returned to the hotel with an appetite for lunch and a new expression in her eyes which
made Ughtred stare at her.

"Mother," he said, "you look different. You look well. It isn't only your new dress and your hair."

The new style of her attire had certainly done much, and the maid who had been engaged to attend
her was a woman who knew her duties. She had been called upon in her time to make the most
of hair offering much less assistance to her skill than was supplied by the fine, fair colourlessness
she had found dragged back from her new mistress's forehead. It was not dragged back now, but
had really been done wonders with. Rosalie had smiled a little when she had looked at herself
in the glass after the first time it was so dressed.

"You are trying to make me look as I did when mother saw me last, Betty," she said. "I wonder
if you possibly could."

"Let us believe we can," laughed Betty. "And wait and see."

It seemed wise neither to make nor receive visits. The time for such things had evidently not
yet come. Even the mention of the Worthingtons led to the revelation that Rosalie shrank from
immediate contact with people. When she felt stronger, when she became more accustomed to the
thought, she might feel differently, but just now, to be luxuriously one with the enviable
part of London, to look on, to drink in, to drive here and there, doing the things she liked
to do, ordering what was required at Stornham, was like the creating for her of a new heaven
and a new earth. 

Did not fail to indicate the abortifacient property of ipecac administered by chill and since the
first signs of concentration mentioned above, typical signs of ipecac and many fevers of summer
with daily access: This drug suppresses the access and some sometimes fever. It is also, after the
machine or alternatively to this, the most suitable drug to prevent the development of access
and malarial fever.

Ipecac is eminently indicated after aconite in cases of fever sobreaguda with phlogosis in the
throat, bronchi, or lung, in children. The lack of this acuity and the lack of quick jerky congestive phenomena,
of stubbornness and susceptibility contraindicated in children, youth and women, even in a gastric
fever. Chamomile has many similarities with ipecac in fevers, with the difference that that
corresponds to an orgasm less intense blood, and to a rather erethism ataxic that spasmodic
in fevers and developed and an advanced stage.

Bilious fever or subacute gastric continuing propensity to vomit during an epidemic or in summer,
corresponding to ipecac. Fevers also belong in the sweat and there is excess spasms, anxiety and tendency
to fainting or even to faint and great weakness. Bryony also corresponds to the excess sweat
from certain fevers; but this is due to sweat blood orgasm lung and is not accompanied by these phenomena.
White hellebore is not suitable in a heavy sweat, but cold. Aconite has no spasms or weakness in these
cases, and the sweat is more sedate, but sometimes less abundant. Arsenic can only compete with ipecac,
if the profuse sweating which has, is accompanied by spasms, but also requires much greater anxiety.

=
B = inflammations.

Ipecac is useful in subacute inflammation, when the irritation persists nerve after the period of increasing
fever, his action is in relation to convulsive phenomena of members, and differs from henbane,
in which the nervous symptoms look at the head or come from the first, of nitro salt, because
it affects more particularly the heart, the throbbing, it unfolds rather neuralgias and alternatives
of chills and heat.

Ipecac is indicated in miliary eruptions of postpartum women, if there is distress, oppression,
sighs in these cases similar to the bryony, differs by the least affection of peritoneum,
but in truth, is efficacious in the majority of febrile illnesses of pregnant women, provided
there congestive spasms and movements. It is, finally, indicated in the prodrome of meningitis
and even in the first period of this serious condition, and it is also to the end, when the disease,
its rapid progress, confuses their periods. The Henbane is better in sharpness, and advantageously
may be given after ipecac.

Not proven, as needed, that this drug is more effective than corrosive sublimate and arsenic
in dysentery, but is useful at the beginning of this condition when febrile or that the depositions
contain much blood. Ipecac is often limited to modify general condition without reducing the
urgency of bowel movements or change remarkably, and not the suppression of their blood, an amount
which can reach up intestinal bleeding. But the doctor has powerful resources for these species pathological
with cinchona, ivy, arsenic, colchicum, mercury, particularly corrosive because each of these
in their field, they fill the requirements of the various cases of dysentery. Dysenteric diarrhea,
the colliquative, bilious or mucous membranes, have also their respective medicines, including ipecac
is the one that occupies the first place. Diarrhea of summer and all flows intestinal mucus
and gastric symptoms usually subside with ipecac.

If these symptoms is compounded by fever, in children, are almost always indicators of ipecac convulsive
movements, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, violent, bronchitis and oppression.

= C = Congestion. Hemorrhage .-- Among the conditions similar to the symptoms of this drug,
are congestion and hemorrhage. Stroke claims its use only in cases the stomach is the pars Mandans
of congestion, since its action on the brain is straight to that exerted in the stomach. Nux vomica
is also very effective in gastric stroke. After aconite, ipecac is one of the best remedies
for hemoptysis, when pulmonary congestion is characterized by pallor of the rest of the body
and spasms of the extremities. Matter in these cases to ascertain the cause of hemoptysis
and resort Brioni, arnica or other drugs that best correspond to the concept. In general, congestion
of the lungs that are most suited to bryony, as intercurrent require some dose of ipecac. The
match is indicated in pulmonary tissue congestion, and all cases of complete and permanent
congestion, and sumac in the less rapid and active that of ipecac.

Uterine congestion in fast-moving blood, pallor and nervousness, ipecac can avoid abortion.

This
medicine is effectively opposed to the normal contracted uterine
bleeding of this organ.

Decreases excesses rules congestion caused by a strong uterine and clears up when they degenerate
into metrorrhagia. Lochia excesses are reduced reasonable limits to the action of ipecac. Like
symptoms in all indicators cases, it should be noted a rapid or continuous pain and cutting
the navel, a feeling pressure in the uterus and expulsion towards the neck of this body heat
in the head cold in the rest of the body.

= D = spasmodic and neuralgic affections .-- These conditions do not
have to ipecac essential as the nervous character in Ignacio.

Are always the result of an affection gastric, uterine, pulmonary, congestive movements. Are
not those of passibility opium, no cramping exclusively the character of copper. They are accompanied
by pale the face, involuntary cries, and consist mainly of shaking or stiffness of the body,
continuous movements of the muscles of the face are presented in order to start a fever or
in the acute period, and sometimes in severe states of puerperal conditions, the teething .... Ipecac
has been effective in certain failure and intermittent neuralgias the eye, very painful ophthalmia
with perturbation of sight, and that inflammation affects preferably the iris and cornea.

Uncontrollable vomiting of pregnancy, for which so many drugs have been advocated and pulsatility,
arsenic, white hellebore, platinum cured ...., have sometimes usually
give ipecac and nux vomica.

It uses the first two, during two hours before eating, and the second in the two or three
hours after eating, this medication is almost always effective, but requires small doses. It
also produces a good effect ipecac in gastric cough with or without vomiting, and the teat of
children throwing unprocessed milk easily.

= E. = Diseases of the respiratory organs .-- It ipecac in bronchitis efforts to vomit, oppression
greater than the degree of bronchial irritation can assume, anxiety
or weakness that does not correspond to the mildness of the disease.

For their elective mucous membranes, corresponding to the character catarrhal ipecac, and adapted
by part to bronchitis with fever or cough, and secondly, at the same affection with expectoration
abundant and fatigue, ie to the initial and final periods, since symptoms characteristic of ipecac. Pertussis
where indicated, is eminently catarrhal and has a shooting pain deep in the larynx titillations
excite cough, sputum bloody diarrhea, asthmatic conditions but do not rise to pulmonary emphysema.
In the first period in the catarrhal or whooping cough, is when it is most ipecac after aconite
and belladonna or before the latter.

Ipecac is usually a precious medicine dyspnea and bronchitis asthmatic conditions, when you start after
the expectoration of cough and sputum are sparkling and abundant, so much excite vomiting. In
these cases, tartar is so indicated as emetic ipecac.

In Millar's asthma or cramp the chest, ipecac rivals arsenic, nux vomica and the elder, especially
if there is congestive element. It is less advisable in the suffocating cold, children at
least and humid asthma cure union of bryony, lobelia, arsenic, and nux vomica, At doses more
or less frequently repeated and alternated with those of the aforementioned.

Ipecac can avert more serious accidents: extremity dyspnea, breathing distressing impending paralysis
of the lungs. In the accumulation of mucus in the bronchi increases in proportion to the danger,
are of great use musk, tartar emetic, cantharides arsenic and managed
within or applied as vesicatoria.

Add the fact that the abundance of mucus, although the filamentous, with no other accident,
is corrected ipecac better with the same arsenic, if even some other irritation persists; will be
used to match and charcoal, when the flegmorragia is more asthenic. In the treatment along these
broncorreas always, are also useful in the Senegalese, the pulsatile bittersweet, squill.

One should not underestimate the use of ipecac in croup after the formation of false membranes,
if the attendant general symptoms and indicate, as already has been recommended effective
for this serious disease before they propose M. Teste, being on the other hand true that ipecac
has physiological symptoms very similar to croup.

M. The alternative Teste with bryony, welcoming much of this procedure, we can not argue in
favor of this opinion the result of this experience, and therefore suspend the trial. In quite
true that knowing the imperfections of the medical field, we look forward with confidence Experience
"and test that new well-made, continuously will enlarge the field of therapeutic and you will
find in many over properties not included in its pathogenesis still incomplete usually.

.=-- = Dose to the dose is used from one to five drops in water, cold cases suffocating asthma, congestive
affections, spasmodic and flegmásicas. Be used in lower dose fever cases less stormy, and gastric and
neuralgic conditions. It is rare to administer appropriate doses lower than those of some cells of the
third attenuation, unless in highly impressionable children.

Kali carb (subcarbonate POTASH).

§ 1 .-- History.

The potassium salt has been used at all times in very different diseases.

They've attributed diuretic, resolute, antiescrofulosas. Has been very popular in the treatment of
dropsy and consists partly as essential medication such famous formulas have been for ascites.
The elixir of Peyrhile, intended antiescrofuloso, contains a large amount of this salt.

Undoubtedly, the carbonate of soda does not have the same properties
as subcarbonate potash, particularly in mineral waters containing
them, but these properties have been prejudiced because of the therapeutic
effects, and by the general physiological, a much less importance,
and belonging to all the alkaline salts.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

The many symptoms listed in the esperimentacion on healthy volunteers
show that potassium carbonate exerts a profound action on nutrition
and vegetative life.

Febrile phenomena have all the character of a chronic fever diathetic without in their action
is noticed no acute or inflammatory, for if it is true that in pathogenesis are some congestive
symptoms, it is also accompanied by tremors nerve, numbness and weakness of real, if there
neuralgia, are the expression of fatigue nerve and long previous sufferings, if a fever or
symptoms of local inflammation, dominates the chills, sweating is missing or night and even colliquative,
and general indicates the hidroemia.

Elective action of this drug is directed exhalant system and absorbent membranes serous and mucous
membranes and therefore also to venous and lymphatic systems to those
who are to stop all the products of the absorption, and from which
all of the exhalation.

This explains the profound alteration that occurs in nutrition medicine, the glut of serum in the blood
and spill into the cavities and into the net splanchnic tissue cell, hence, in short, are the
nodes and venosidad stroke.

Its action on the venous system is mainly expressed in the uterus, so Goullon has been said that
exercised a special influence in this body, and manage them as abortion
for their specific conditions of venosidad.

Its action in the system node reflects the skin so that it is in antiherpes powerful. This action
is altering, non-plastic; debiéndose also report that this substance has a nervous asthenia,
increased secretions, and lack of reconstitution itself skin, and leads to the formation of
corns, warts and other escrescencias, in which deposit liquid molecules seem solid and the
limits of life on par the serum is exhaled in the meshes of the cellular tissue and the surface
membranes serous and mucous membranes. Finally, even if there's any need to state that EXPERIENCE
potash subcarbonate work on these surfaces, the blood separating materials pus to develop, we
believe, based on a small number of events, which is half that diathesis should be tested in
the piohemia purulent, as it is used in the diathesis serosa.

This medicine is still of great importance to be indicated in these cases, even apart from the
last property that we just talked about, because in addition to the characters differentials
that are deducted from their elective action, there is a tenderness
in members and skin, as if ulcerated, burning pains in the viscera
and members, itching, burning and lancinating pains dislacerantes,
dominating feeling of contraction or tension, and are followed by
tremors or numbness.

These pains usually increases in the rest of the second part of the night, and relieved the
air and free movement, while the febrile phenomena are compounded by the exterior air. There are
also very disposition to colds, the head and chest are more affected with the impression air.

Several
authors have shown as this drug symptom of swelling upper eyelid. As term of comparison we
add that this swelling is set at the lower eyelids for phosphorus. The action of potash is
subcarbonate analogous to that of sea salt, but with the difference that this is more focused on
the abdomen, and chest of the former. The moral is altered in much the same way on this drug
that the sea salt, lycopodium and drugs whose action is similar in elective essential equipment
to the hematosis. The irresolution, apathy, sadness, fear, impatience sometimes the irritability
of low achievers to work and lack of memory are common symptoms to
all this class of drugs.

Without going into detail but the physiological effects of sub-carbonate of potash, we shall
present the picture of their main indications in the disease, which will be completed the
synthesis of the distinctive features of its action under the therapeutic standpoint.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

This medicine does not have an acute action rigorously speaking, the
symptoms that reveal the blood are passive excitement or diathesis,
and injuries from nutrition or organic.

Just some character scrofulous inflammations are those that correspond to its sphere of activity,
as ophthalmia with redness of the conjunctiva, swelling of eyelids, suppuration in the corners of
the eyes, tearing, agglutination of the eyelids, photophobia, pressive
and even lancinating pain, symptoms which belong to all scrofulous
ophthalmia and to the people venous and cachectic.

This advantageously combat drug spots inflammatory corneal opacity, alternated with eyebright
and iodine. Red swelling of the ear with purulent discharge purulent or sero- also belongs,
are often exuding abrasions behind the flag of the inner ear and even ulcerations. Whatever
you want to swelling, or edema observed an infiltration pale on the edge of the swollen parts. The
lime sulfur and mercury complete their action in this case. The same order and have phenomenal
character in the nose, as swelling is accompanied by sealing the
nostrils, fluent coryza, sores in the inside and abolition of smell.

Staphysagria sumac and are sometimes preferable in such cases the sub-carbonate of potash.

Fluxions in the face that correspond to this drug, but rather consist in a swelling partial
in scrofulous people sometimes limited to a simple parotitis of same kind, or to an induration as a
result of inflammatory Fluxion. Parotitis that this drug cures, apparently has chills, fever
and violent symptoms inflammation. Belladonna is not indicated in this parotitis, but in the feverish,
and mercury is the best helper, the rhux agrees subacute parotitis, or rather, in which is presented
without general Prodrom; you can usefully mercury switch.

Subcarbonate Potash is one of the appropriate drugs to the indurations resulting of inflammations.
 And this one comes in, and in two or three
minutes shows that she knows things about the place and understands. A man might then take
it for granted that she would understand the thing he daringly gathered courage to say. The works to be navigation
in such neat pass by many rivers, and in weather so hot, it is easy to see will be many and great,
but the more often the ongoing war of mosquitoes not cease to bother at all hours.

* * *

§.

VIII.

Mattogroso Situation.

Mattogroso main population is founded by the Portuguese back in the
fork, they do before your board and Serer Guaporé rivers that have
their source very close to the origin Paraguay River, and run towards
the west.

"All work will be paid for," she said. "Each week the workmen will receive their wages. They
may be sure. I will be responsible."

"Thank you, miss," said Buttle, and he half unconsciously touched his forehead again.

"In a place like this," the young lady went on in her mellow voice, and with a reflective thoughtfulness
in her handsome eyes, "on an estate like Stornham, no work that can be done by the villagers
should be done by anyone else. The people of the land should be trained to do such work as
the manor house, or cottages, or farms require to have done."

"How did she think that out?" was Buttle's reflection. In places such as Stornham, through
generation after generation, the thing she had just said was accepted as law, clung to as a
possession, any divergence from it being a grievance sullenly and bitterly grumbled over. And
in places enough there was divergence in these days--the gentry sending to London for things,
and having up workmen to do their best-paying jobs for them. The law had been so long a law
that no village could see justice in outsiders being sent for, even to do work they could not
do well themselves. It showed what she was, this handsome young woman--even though she did
come from America--that she should know what was right.

She took a note-book out and opened it on the rough table before her.

"I have made some notes here," she said, "and a sketch or two. We must talk them over together."

If she had given Joe Buttle cause for surprise at the outset, she gave him further cause during
the next half-hour. The work that was to be done was such as made him open his eyes, and draw
in his breath. If he was to be allowed to do it--if he could do it--if it was to be paid for--it
struck him that he would be a man set up for life. If her ladyship had come and ordered it
to be done, he would have thought the poor thing had gone mad. But this one had it all jotted
down in a clear hand, without the least feminine confusion of detail, and with here and there
a little sharply-drawn sketch, such as a carpenter, if he could draw, which Buttle could not,
might have made.

"There's not workmen enough in the village to do it in a year, miss," he said at last, with
a gasp of disappointment.

She thought it over a minute, her pencil poised in her hand and her eyes on his face.

"Can you," she said, "undertake to get men from other villages, and superintend what they do?
If you can do that, the work is still passing through your hands, and Stornham will reap the
benefit of it. Your workmen will lodge at the cottages and spend part of their wages at the
shops, and you who are a Stornham workman will earn the money to be made out of a rather large
contract."

Joe Buttle became quite hot. If you have brought up a family for years on the proceeds of such
jobs as driving a ten-penny nail in here or there, tinkering a hole in a cottage roof, knocking
up a shelf in the vicarage kitchen, and mending a panel of fence, to be suddenly confronted
with a proposal to engage workmen and undertake "contracts" is shortening to the breath and
heating to the blood.

"Miss," he said, "we've never done big jobs, Sim Soames an' me. P'raps we're not up to it--but
it'd be a fortune to us."

She was looking down at one of her papers and making pencil marks on it.

"You did some work last year on a little house at Tidhurst, didn't you?" she said.

To think of her knowing that! Yes, the unaccountable good luck had actually come to him that
two Tidhurst carpenters, falling ill of the same typhoid at the same time, through living side
by side in the same order of unsanitary cottage, he and Sim had been given their work to finish,
and had done their best.

"Yes, miss," he answered.

"I heard that when I was inquiring about you. I drove over to Tidhurst to see the work, and
it was very sound and well done. If you did that, I can at least trust you to do something
at the Court which will prove to me what you are equal to. I want a Stornham man to undertake
this."

"No Tidhurst man," said Joe Buttle, with sudden courage, "nor yet no Barnhurst, nor yet no
Yangford, nor Wratcham shall do it, if I can look it in the face. It's Stornham work and Stornham
had ought to have it. It gives me a brace-up to hear of it."

The tall young lady laughed beautifully and got up.

"Come to the Court to-morrow morning at ten, and we will look it over together," she said.
"Good-morning, Buttle." And she went away.

In the taproom of The Clock, when Joe Buttle dropped in for his pot of beer, he found Fox,
the saddler, and Tread, the blacksmith, and each of them fell upon the others with something
of the same story to tell. The new young lady from the Court had been to see them, too, and
had brought to each her definite little note-book. Harness was to be repaired and furbished
up, the big carriage and the old phaeton were to be put in order, and Master Ughtred's cart
was to be given new paint and springs.

"This is what she said," Fox's story ran, "and she said it so straightforward and business-like
that the conceitedest man that lived couldn't be upset by it. 'I want to see what you can do,'
she says. 'I am new to the place and I must find out what everyone can do, then I shall know
what to do myself.' The way she sets them eyes on a man is a sight. It's the sense in them
and the human nature that takes you."

"Yes, it's the sense," said Tread, "and her looking at you as if she expected you to have sense
yourself, and understand that she's doing fair business. It's clear-headed like--her asking
questions and finding out what Stornham men can do. She's having the old things done up so
that she can find out, and so that she can prove that the Court work is going to be paid for.
That's my belief."

"But what does it all mean?" said Joe Buttle, setting his pot of beer down on the taproom table,
round which they sat in conclave. "Where's the money coming from? There's money somewhere."

Tread was the advanced thinker of the village. He had come--through reverses--from a bigger
place. He read the newspapers.

"It'll come from where it's got a way of coming," he gave forth portentously. "It'll come from
America. How they manage to get hold of so much of it there is past me. But they've got it,
dang 'em, and they're ready to spend it for what they want, though they're a sharp lot. Twelve
years ago there was a good bit of talk about her ladyship's father being one of them with the
fullest pockets. Commissioned to
will prompt you to speak one last time and settled or not to give part of what was happening.
No wanted to come, no doubt fearing my wrath. Fell with another attack, and was certainly loves
to look for him, because when I opened my eyes he was beside me. Asked the housekeeper to make
me a cup Linden ... As we were alone, without a word fell upon me, enveloping me face with kisses,
squeezing so hard that I die ... Stunned and horrified, jumped some shouting, but he stifled
putting his hand over her mouth ... I struggled with despair, And God gave me strength to let
go of his arms and jump out of bed ... But there was little set foot on the floor, I met again
with the subject and gagged ... We struggled a while, but this struggle could not last long
... Finally, I passed out ...

A violent emotion ran through the room. There was a rumor long. All eyes, fixed so far in the
complainant went to the defendant. Fr Gil had heard that infamous statement, first with surprise,
then with a sad pity that the bystander, impressed by the words of the young, they could not read
his eyes. That calm attitude, his gaze lingering, fixed on his accuser, continued to give to
cynicism.

It was difficult to happen otherwise. Obdulia had shown, under the lash of anger, diabolical
talent.

His words and gestures, a little exaggerated, vibrated with indignation. His eyes never ever
crossed that of the priest, but he knew well to give the appearance of this fear contempt.

- I wish to express the complainant - the defense attorney asked - how is that, having everything
happened just said, he confessed only after the author of that flight and nothing said to much
time elapsed violence he endured.

- I did not say anything to disgrace. I think any woman would do the same for me. What was up
to reveal these things so dirty?

Only when I saw my honor on the floor, only when reached my ears that was said in Peñascosa,
I ventured to confess to my father. Mandated of that I am here, that otherwise would not have
been.

To all questions put to him, both the president and the lawyers, responded
with admirable composure and resiliency.

Not a moment lacked imagination.

Defending P. Gil proposed to end the confrontation with Ms Josefa.

He went back and fixed it an angry look on Obdulia, which paid him
another hit with contempt.

On request the president told again the scene where Fr Gil threw home his penitent. A few words
it showed signs of agitation and was horribly pale.

- False, false!
- Shouted for joy.

- Is it true that you came into the room of my
master, saying: "Father, here I am you!" and my master, unanswered
word, he rose from his chair, grabbed you by the arm and set of legs
out of the cabinet?

- Lies ... That woman is crazy ... To save his
master invented a calumny.

- I'm not crazy, no, nor slander anyone
... The slander that you are a priest, rogue, you have to give account
to God for their evil ...

- Please report the witness - said the
president also .-- please report the complainant, or I'll be forced
to expel them from the room.

But neither ignored the threat. Obdulia kept shouting:

- False! You lie!

- The lying is you, who want to lose a priest pride ... A saint!

- Silence! - Shouted the president hitting the bell.

- Give you a good holy God - the girl exclaimed .-- sarcastic smile
you do not slander the other for saving him.

- Enough!

Drive out of the room with these women - uttered the president, addressing the ushers.

- The slanderous you! ... You, rascal! Rascal ... Why have you despised accuse him infamous?
Are not you afraid to open up and swallow you? ...

At that moment a hujia grabbed her arm and shoved her brutally toward the door. But Ms Josefa,
until he reached her, kept shouting:

- There is no justice to this poor woman caning, the feather!

... Rascal, you've gone always behind the priests, like a bitch out! ... Keep it in a bath
of cold water that is cool!

...

Another hujia was to expel the other, but at the time of close, Obdulia collapsed, attack of syncope.
His lawyer and the people who were near came to her aid. Was transferred to the office of secretary.
Two doctors were spontaneously Contest to visit.

After the test, and after resting a few minutes, the President gave
the floor the private prosecutor.

His speech was, as expected, eloquent and furious. Her voice was veiled because of bronchitis
chronic: when he wanted to raise was shrill, strident. The word was fluid, although abounded
in public areas of journalism. In Lancia nobody knew about this smoothness.

Fr Pinto Gil as being hypocritical, despicable, vile secret feeding, carefully hiding them for fear of losing
their position. These passions are common the clergy, in which a regime of idleness and a sedentary
life and the exciting spring ...

As insist too much on this, the president called him to order.

He described the crime with a picturesque crudeness purpose to impress the court. A odious plan
laid out beforehand and carried out with firmness and skill relentless. Abuse of trust first,
then indecent assault, and finally, a coward and sacrilegious violation. The evidence was inconclusive.
With force and subtlety at the same time he was collecting all on the head of the priest to
conclude with this paragraph:

- And if all these data were not damning enough to prove premeditation plainly crime, I will
argue next. It is said, and all agree in this, that the father had Gil confession to her daughter
to a convent of Carmelite Astudillo. Well, Sir ... in Astudillo Carmelite convent there. Want
more in court?

The speech was short and decisive. At the end he felt a murmur approvingly, a bad omen for processing.

The
defender he was a lawyer of experience and intelligent, but lacking in all the oratorical skills
of his opponent.

Word was abundant, but it was dull, heavy, more calculated to elucidate
some obscure point in a civil case to drag the spirit of the court
and the public.

Be entertained with great thoroughness to reconstitute the informalities seeking summary, calling
the court's attention on details, some of them insignificant.

Nothing to enter, as it should, in the character of the complainant, to highlight the chronic
disorder of the nervous system, its surprising violence feelings, like love to hatred, susceptibility
unhealthy self-esteem seemed devoid of skin and flesh forever, nothing to seek, in short,
the origin, the true origin of that strange charge.

He spoke about an hour and a half. Upon completion, the same court that the public, were visibly
fatigued. Briefly the private prosecutor corrected some errors of
fact.

Sostúvolos the defense, as their condition was long and neatly. So that the nuisance generated
on his maiden speech multiplied significantly in the second.

Finally, the president rang the bell and, facing the accused, said:

- In light of the evidence they have just performed and the reports
of Mr. Counsel, Processing does something to express to the court?

Fr Gil got up from his bench and cast a look as smooth as roams the room. Seemed he awoke from
a dream. It took a few moments to speak. Silence reigned in the auditorium deep and anxious. Despite
the unfavorable atmosphere that had formed around him, her delicate figure, poetic, which shone
humility, could not fail to impress favorable.

- I am innocent of the crime that I committed. In the hands of God, in whom I have long ceased
all my thoughts and attention, now let my sentence. Their bidding.

These simple words, spoken slowly, causing an electric shock in contest.

For a moment he glimpsed the truth as in the light of lightning.

But the darkness fell back into the room and thickened in the most
perspicuous intelligences.

No missing who mutter that priests, by evil they were, were always on the lips these words.
The president responded with his usual pungency:

- Well, God will judge him later. For now you are going to judge men.

XV

The court sentenced the men to fourteen years, eight months and one day in prison.

Officer of the hearing room that was to read the sentence to jail is believed the duty of lavish
comforts. The case was not hopeless. The Supreme Court could still marry sentence. If this does
not happen, he was still young and would probably presidial especially considering cuts as the
government grants from time to time, etc., etc.

- Thank you, thank you, sir - said the priest, whose countenance expressed a deep calm, an inner
serenity that drew attention .-- You think me very unhappy, right?

- Much ... You inspire me with great compassion - responded with rueful face the notary.

- "So you do not change for me now?

The employee made a grimace of terror.

- Unfortunately ... You understand ... The case is terrible! ...

Fr Gil stood a moment staring at him with a sweetness not without pity and he finally said, putting
a hand on the shoulder

- Well, do you wrong, sir, do you wrong. Could well give you your freedom, your honor, your
position and your family be like me ... and you would still huge profits.

The notary looked at him in amazement. His eyes went after a flash of concern, fearing found in
front of a madman, and hastened to say goodbye and leave.

It was just the priest. The cell in which it was was murky and dirty. An iron cot, a pine coffee
table, comfortable chairs and some rough straw made up all the furniture. For the single barred window
that there illuminates open to considerable height, came within this when a beam of sunlight.
Fr Gil, after remaining motionless for a moment in attitude reflection, was to be placed under
those rays. Her blonde head suddenly illuminated, glowed gold, white
complexion took on a singular transparency.

Her slim body, thin, dressed in black cassock, seemed a column of ebony to underwrite this head.

He
left to drown by the warm wave, slowly drinking his sweet, pulsing under his touch as a captive
bird. He raised his eyes to the window. Through the bars saw the blue the sky, transparent,
infinite, inviting him to fly.

The sky laughed. But she laughed merrily the sky soul, intoxicating joy flooded. In the depths
of his being too bright blue infinity. Since the Gracia had visited lived in perpetual feast.
His eyes suddenly lit, contemplated the universe in its ideal nature. All leaflets lying on the ratio
had fallen to the ground: the great secret of existence is revealed
to him directly with admirable clarity and purity.

Behind this apparent life around us was real life, infinite life, and entered it with hearts
full of joy. In this life everything is infinite love, or what is equal all is bliss. Enter
it is to put your foot in the Empire of Eternity.

Is life spirit. The world can not change or destroy time, because she is the principle same
time and the world. God loved life, lived beyond the time at source same ideal and lasting
imaginative world that surrounds us. Their days are no longer sliding sad and anxious as a portion
of time. And not suffer the gnawing desire, not exhaled plaintive complaints about their sins,
their resolutions due, because he loved and his own works, however good they were, as before,
but only the Eternal. Because works have their origin in the person, and he was stripped of his,
had refused firmly. In the midst of a holy and sweet indifference let God should work within
their spirit. Forever free of doubt and uncertainty, I knew I should not want more than one
thing, and everything else would be given in addition. He was sure that the power divine love
that had sprung up in him should not ever be exhausted, and that this love would guide him
forever. The fear of death and destruction not disturbed. Death, since he had entered in the
life of eternity, was to him incomprehensible.

No need to go down to the grave get this eternal life. Bastabales join heart to God to possess
and enjoy it.

Learned, finally, once and for all, that man can not escape the pain
and death by reason but by faith, that is, by a different and better
knowledge than it can give us.

Since this knowledge enlightened spirit, happiness reached absolute.

Without concern for the future, without feeling for the past, do not feel like anything not
rejecting anything either, his life long he glided like a happy dream, as a sweet intoxication.
He dropped the lead of desires and sorrows that bound him to the ground. Freed from all illusion
and every effort, without fear of annihilation or hope selfish resurrection, by virtue of Faith
and love play in his soul knew the true reign of God.

Only briefly and remained motionless, receiving the sun's warm kiss of the day. Representársele
soon that it was a delight to the senses, and making a gesture of
disdain, was to sit in the darkest corner of the room.

Only by renouncing the pleasures, only looking for the suffering
and lording his senses had reached that state of bliss of sublime
indifference.

- Why do I need that sun rays - it was said - if the
fire that burns within my soul I warms and comforts me best?

How much is this ephemeral light compared to the other not never
be darkened?

Living in the life of the senses is to be a slave of time and necessity.

All that is not in the inner and free inside me I managed to find me strange and indifferent. Oh,
no! No longer a slave tremble.

I have the consciousness of my freedom. No need to die to get it back. This feeling of my freedom
fills me with joy, I am an emancipated soul printed on the label
of my God.

Nothing happens, nothing of what may happen to disturb the peace
of my heart.

The pulse beat of my inner life with the same force until it beeps when I leave this world.
I've eaten meat and I drank the blood of the Redeemer, and according
to his promise, I live in Him and He dwells in me.

I Am a Child of Eternity. I picked up the legacy of my Father, and no one, nobody can me boot!
...

The lock on the door rang loudly. Appeared in the key, a fat man with the face red, eyes full
of meat, the suit dirty and greasy, bulky and around the abdomen a wide leather belt trimmed
with keys. Not to say good morning or make a minimum a courtesy, turned toward the hall, saying:

-
Come, gentlemen, you pass.

Behind him came two gentlemen in frock coat and top hat. The one tall, blond, with a long beard
that reached his mid-chest, open and friendly face, young yet.

The other lower and thin, sickly color, thin beard and glasses. The
first was a distinguished physician of the population.

The second, a lawyer very fond of studies criminal and had already published several papers relating
to them.

Fr rose Gil to see them. They greeted him politely, but without shaking hands.

- Well, there I leave you with the pater - said rudely keychain you
.-- Tell when they want out.

And it was.

The lawyer took a step toward the prisoner, and said with an amiable smile:

- We would like, if you do not mind it, ask some questions ...

-
You're very own - said the priest, fixing his clear eyes that achieved
a disturb him.

The doctor also advanced, and taking the flask was offered a cigar, asking at the same time:

-
What? Do you treat you good here?

- Thank you, do not smoke ... Yes, sir, I am treated well. There is more charity in prison than
ordinarily say.

Entablose an animated conversation. Sought, as the doctor that the lawyer, it increasingly
intimate and family, learning with interest the details of their daily lives. Insensibly passed
after questioning him about his childhood, first impressions of his life, his education, and
stood particularly in adolescence. What was his life in the seminary? What is your diet? Was
fond of solitude?

What had suffered from diseases? Enteráronse also some particularities
concerning their family. The suicide of their mother called on all
the attention, and long entertained time to ask what he knew about
who had given him being. Finally, after one-hour conversation, during
which he looked with stubborn insistence of those who going to buy
an animal, the doctor asked:

- Do we allow you now to take some information
about his skull and other measures? ...

Fr Gil, a little surprised,
agreed immediately. The doctor removed from his back pocket of his
coat a Craniometric and ribbon.

Skull took it as round, then the
bone box that protects the brain, the facial angle, the length of
the face, measured facial projection and the wall, the zygomatic arches
and mandible ...

At this point, the doctor and the lawyer exchanged
a meaningful glance.

- "We beg your open arms?

Fr Gil was on the
cross, while a sweet and melancholy eyes folded his lips. Measured
the long arms. After the hand. At this point, became a doctor and
lawyer change another look of intelligence.

Finally, after they had
heard what they wanted, took leave of him very politely, often giving
thanks for his kindness and trying to encourage good reasons.

The
next day appeared in The Future of Lancia, signed by the criminal
lawyer, a article with the title of a visit to P. Gil. Did in the
exact relationship of the interview, describing in detail the person
of the priest prisoner, and ended with a series of deep scientific
considerations on the characters anatomical, pathological and physiological
that the offender had.

"Among the anthropometric data - said in one
paragraph - common to all criminal we have seen only a slight predominance
of the parietal projection compared to the front and enough development
of the zygomatic arches and mandible. In contrast, P. Gil gives her
figure absolutely all the features that positive criminal school assigned
as peculiar to the rapist and libertine, is as follows: the outer
ear way outbound and insert a loop, bright eyes, the delicate appearance
(except of the jaw), straight hair, skin morbid hands very long and
somewhat effeminate in the set. "

FIN She had left her mother at home to scrimp and save, and
by hook or by crook she had contrived to get a number of quite good things to wear. She wore
them with such an air of accustomed resource that the jewels might easily--mixed with some
relics of her mother's better days--be of the order of the clever little Parisian diamond crescent.
It was Milly's never-laid-aside manner which did it. The announcement of her union with Sir
Arthur Bowen was received in certain New York circles with little suppressed shrieks of glee.
It had been so sharp of her to aim low and to realise so quickly that she could not aim high.
The baronetcy was a recent one, and not unconnected with trade. Sir Arthur was not a rich man,
and, had it leaked out, believed in Uncle James. If he did not find him all his fancy painted,
Milly was clever enough to keep him quiet. She was, when all was said and done, one of the
American women of title, her servants and the tradespeople addressed her as "my lady," and
with her capacity for appropriating what was most useful, and her easy assumption of possessing
all required, she was a very smart person indeed. She provided herself with an English accent,
an English vocabulary, and an English manner, and in certain circles was felt to be most impressive.

At an afternoon function in the country Mrs. Vanderpoel had met Lady Bowen. She had been one
of the few kindly ones, who in the past had given an occasional treat to Milly Jones for her
girlhood's sake. Lady Bowen, having gathered a small group of hearers, was talking volubly
to it, when the nice woman entered, and, catching sight of her, she swept across the room.
It would not have been like Milly to fail to see and greet at once the wife of Reuben Vanderpoel.
She would count anywhere, even in London sets it was not easy to connect one's self with. She
had already discovered that there were almost as many difficulties to be surmounted in London
by the wife of an unimportant baronet as there had been to be overcome in New York by a girl
without money or place. It was well to have something in the way of information to offer in
one's small talk with the lucky ones and Milly knew what subject lay nearest to Mrs. Vanderpoel's
heart.

"Miss Vanderpoel has evidently been enjoying her visit to Stornham Court," she said, after
her first few sentences. "I met Mrs. Worthington at the Embassy, and she said she had buried
herself in the country. But I think she must have run up to town quietly for shopping. I saw
her one day in Piccadilly, and I was almost sure Lady Anstruthers was with her in the carriage--almost
sure."

Mrs. Vanderpoel's heart quickened its beat.

"You were so young when she married," she said. "I daresay you have forgotten her face."

"Oh, no!" Milly protested effusively. "I remember her quite well. She was so pretty and pink
and happy-looking, and her hair curled naturally. I used to pray every night that when I grew
up I might have hair and a complexion like hers."

Mrs. Vanderpoel's kind, maternal face fell.

"And you were not sure you recognised her? Well, I suppose twelve years does make a difference,"
her voice dragging a little.

Milly saw that she had made a blunder. The fact was she had not even guessed at Rosy's identity
until long after the carriage had passed her.

"Oh, you see," she hesitated, "their carriage was not near me, and I was not expecting to see
them. And perhaps she looked a little delicate. I heard she had been rather delicate."

She felt she was floundering, and bravely floundered away from the subject. Yet progress is undeniable, if not us,
in what is outside us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Napoleon, for instance,
is not better than Alexander the Great, but Napoleon has guns and other means of warfare that Alexander
did not have. Neither Kant nor Hegel worth as much as Aristotle but Aristotle did not possess the
scientific data twentieth of Kant and Hegel.

Fed is understood and in what sense and to what extent progress is undeniable. No progress in science
but in art there is no progress. If Pericles would be resurrected today turulato to hear the phonograph,
talking on the phone and see the electric poles, balloons, Railways and photography. Even a box
to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground, dazed with awe and surprise, but it sure
would not find among all Paris hetairae a more discreet, distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia,
and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon and the Eiffel
Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today
and could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain why.
Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace,
lightness and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the
speed of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he
had continued history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the
Tauchnitz edition, and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular,
the use of some years of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also
to the conciseness Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of
their homeland, I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning
and without sleep, the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel
by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not
write for me to read Pericles, but to read to the men of the day. Mrs. Vanderpoel sat down at a sunny window with her lap full of letters, and forgot
Milly Bowen's floundering.

When Mr. Vanderpoel reached his office and glanced at his carefully arranged morning's mail,
Mr. Germen saw him smile at the sight of the envelopes addressed in his daughter's hand. He
sat down to read them at once, and, as he read, the smile of welcome became a shrewd and deeply
interested one.

"She has undertaken a good-sized contract," he was saying to himself, "and she's to be trusted
to see it through. It is rather fine, the way she manages to combine emotions and romance and
sentiments with practical good business, without letting one interfere with the other. It's
none of it bad business this, as the estate is entailed, and the boy is Rosy's. It's good business."

This was what Betty had written to her father in New York from Stornham Court.

"The things I am beginning to do, it would be impossible for me to resist doing, and it would
certainly be impossible for you. The thing I am seeing I have never seen, at close hand, before,
though I have taken in something almost its parallel as part of certain picturesqueness of
scenes in other countries. But I am LIVING with this and also, through relationship to Rosy,
I, in a measure, belong to it, and it belongs to me. You and I may have often seen in American
villages crudeness, incompleteness, lack of comfort, and the composition of a picture, a rough
ugliness the result of haste and unsettled life which stays nowhere long, but packs up its
goods and chattels and wanders farther afield in search of something better or worse, in any
case in search of change, but we have never seen ripe, gradual falling to ruin of what generations
ago was beautiful. To me it is wonderful and tragic and touching. If you could see the Court,
if you could see the village, if you could see the church, if you could see the people, all
quietly disintegrating, and so dearly perfect in their way that if one knew absolutely that
nothing could be done to save them, one could only stand still and catch one's breath and burst
into tears. The church has stood since the Conquest, and, as it still stands, grey and fine,
with its mass of square tower, and despite the state of its roof, is not yet given wholly to
the winds and weather, it will, no doubt, stand a few centuries longer. The Court, however,
cannot long remain a possible habitation, if it is not given a new lease of life. I do not
mean that it will crumble to-morrow, or the day after, but we should not think it habitable
now, even while we should admit that nothing could be more delightful to look at. The cottages
in the village are already, many of them, amazing, when regarded as the dwellings of human
beings. How long ago the cottagers gave up expecting that anything in particular would be done
for them, I do not know. I am impressed by the fact that they are an unexpecting people. Their
calm non-expectancy fills me with interest. Only centuries of waiting for their superiors in
rank to do things for them, and the slow formation of the habit of realising that not to submit
to disappointment was no use, could have produced the almost SERENITY of their attitude. It
is all very well for newborn republican nations--meaning my native land--to sniff sternly and
say that such a state of affairs is an insult to the spirit of the race. Perhaps it is now,
but it was not apparently centuries ago, which was when it all began and when 'Man' and the
'Race' had not developed to the point of asking questions, to which they demand replies, about
themselves and the things which happened to them. It began in the time of Egbert and Canute,
and earlier, in the days of the Druids, when they used peacefully to allow themselves to be
burned by the score, enclosed in wicker idols, as natural offerings to placate the gods. The
modern acceptance of things is only a somewhat attenuated remnant of the ancient idea. And
this is what I have to deal with and understand. When I begin to do the things I am going to
do, with the aid of your practical advice, if I have your approval, the people will be at first
rather afraid of me. They will privately suspect I am mad. It will, also, not seem at all unlikely
that an American should be of unreasoningly extravagant and flighty mind. Stornham, having
long slumbered in remote peace through lack of railroad convenience, still regards America
as almost of the character of wild rumour. Rosy was their one American, and she disappeared
from their view so soon that she had not time to make any lasting impression. I am asking myself
how difficult, or how simple, it will be to quite understand these people, and to make them
understand me. I greatly doubt its being simple. Layers and layers and layers of centuries
must be far from easy to burrow through. They look simple, they do not know that they are not
simple, but really they are not. Their point of view has been the point of view of the English
peasant so many hundred years that an American point of view, which has had no more than a
trifling century and a half to form itself in, may find its thews and sinews the less powerful
of the two. When I walk down the village street, faces appear at windows, and figures, stolidly,
at doors. What I see is that, vaguely and remotely, American though I am, the fact that I am
of 'her ladyship's blood,' and that her ladyship--American though she is--has the claim on
them of being the mother of the son of the owner of the land--stirs in them a feeling that
I have a shadowy sort of relationship in the whole thing, and with regard to their bad roofs
and bad chimneys, to their broken palings, and damp floors, to their comforts and discomforts,
a sort of responsibility. That is the whole thing, and you--just you, father--will understand
me when I say that I actually like it. I might not like it if I were poor Rosy, but, being
myself, I love it. There is something patriarchal in it which moves me.

"Is it an abounding and arrogant delight in power which makes it appeal to me, or is it something
better? To feel that every man on the land, every woman, every child knew one, counted on one's
honour and friendship, turned to one believingly in time of stress, to know that one could
help and be a finely faithful thing, the very knowledge of it would give one vigour and warm
blood in the veins. In a woman are the items most in honor honesty and modesty, in
a man's understanding and value. Hence, to most religious girl and moral, instead of showing disgust
for the future when we foresee that the man was now called good fortune, gets excited, infatuated
or passion is more for him.

The witness such good fortune for her leading man of merit who is beloved; provide greater value
to the lover is in love with her, because that is preferred among many who would pay or had already
surrendered, and even looks like he gives her a mission moralizing and flattering high, namely
that of her lover away, under higher and purer attractive, the way something was missing before,
to give retirement in their use of seductive and playful, and rendered harmless, quiet and
thoughtful parent.

Good manners, the rigid laws of decorum, which are designated with the name or phrase French
social conventions, do not permit a gallant boast of his past conquests to the honest woman who
seeks or who already love and own, but these gains, not disclosed by him and known for her extraordinary
contribution to her love point rise. Having been happy in love is
and has always been for man the most effective seduction.

And this from the heroic and early today.

When those not vedaban social conventions, the gallants always used as action to perform and
captivate hearts, recounting their past and happy affair. Homer who knew or guessed all, tells
us that being found in the Gargarus Jupiter, which is the highest peak of Ida, Juno went to
see the hidden Venus belt, which belt are all of the love spells that steal the wisdom to men
more circumspect and reasonable. Jupiter, then, to see Juno, let himself be overcome by the strength
of those spells; requesting it in the strongest love, and found no better way to submit to
his purpose and I want to quote all the antics and amorous sets, ensuring that none of them,
nor Danae, nor with Leda, nor Europe, nor with the other princesses and nymphs had seduced, he had
never felt so excited, if I may curse, like that occasion. Nothing, indeed, could flatter
more than Juno Jupiter say she had more power than others to get
excited.

Some of this, because the heart is the same as always, took place
in Dona Luz, without that D. Jaime bring to mind his past conquests,
imitating the shameless patriarchal the son of Saturn.

I knew Luz D. Jaime had been adored in Madrid, and, seeing him so charmed, so tired and so loving
and humble, filled with proud complacency, judging thousand times more beloved that all their
old rivals. To complete your satisfaction, was also a defining Dona Luz critical about this business,
which rarely fail to make the women of their status and in their circumstances. D. Love Jaime
by the other women had been profane and sinful; that she had was virtuous and holy, for the
other was born of caprice, vanity, of lost youth or other unlawful passions, for she was born
the love of D. Jaime's highest and purest source of the soul, which, with its beneficent power, was
purified the heart of his friend, erasing all traces of him and all stain of past sins and letting
cleaner than gold.

All this holiness and intimate cleansing work was nothing short of miraculous Love superhuman
Dona Luz and purifying fire of his eyes.

There are hardly any women yeast that is, who dares to tell anyone
here that says; but most of them, when in the position of Dona Luz,
feel and believe a foot-face value, even if I remain silent for fear
of ridicule of unbelievers and profane miscreants.

All stemmed from something like intoxication of happiness for Dona Luz. His D. James seemed
to him a God, but a God who adored her and had to live always surrendered
to his feet.

Dona Luz hence annihilate their will and as embedded in D. Jaime, yielding to everything he
wanted.

Luz gave the commitment to stay and live in Villafría and agreed to continue after Madrid to
his friend.

Also flattered and embarrassed by the rich presents he had given him,
also wanted have one, and gave her husband had saved 30,000 reais,
despite the many alms and charity work he did.

With these 30,000 rs. that D. James, though he resisted had to agree to not offend, than to
spend part in furnishing the house, ordered Mrs. D. Light deliver him Jaime in Madrid the title
of Marquise. What I never wanted when willed single now so that her husband was the Marquis, and
she and he sealed with his own title and label, judging that this would make it more yours.

Don Jaime, who until then had lived in Madrid modestly in a small, single, I did not want to take
his wife to an inn, or lodge it wrong at first, and, according to Dona Light, decided to go
to London alone, for Congress also called him urgently, to house but economically, as Dona
Luz full of trial recommended it, and then that had set, again by Mrs. Light Villafría.

The plan was that Dona Luz D. Jaime.

Much he regretted being separated from her husband, even for a very short time, but she had great
charm for which D. Jaime same prepare to taste the house where he was to receive, and where
she intended to live with modesty and without frequent trips, theaters and social gatherings,
not to be burdensome spending. And no less the loved, not for her, that it was not vanity, but
by her husband, who, when she appeared in Madrid, the title was taken, and could call Marquise.

In
sum, on the twelfth day of marriage, during which Dona Luz blind
to everything around her, just saw or spoke more than a D. Jaime,
this one, filled with hugs and caresses, trying wipe the tears she
shed tender Dona Luz, and showing himself very moved, Villafría left
for Madrid, leaving Dona Luz alone in his ancient and noble mansion,
where, as is already indicated, had she done to move all the furniture,
workmanship and books, home of D. Acisclo had decorated his room before
the wedding.

-XVIII-

Glorious Transit

In the absence of D. Jaime,
who should not last more than a month, Dona Luz was something melancholy
sweet but melancholy, but with more freedom and calm to return to
their former friends, at times when that alone is not recreated with
the memories of the absentee owner.

Luz had lived as if in ecstasy, and now he came to, and not just thinking of his love and tasted all his
fortune, taking them back quietly to the imagination, but I felt, as people usually feel all happy
to be judged, the need for expansion and itching to be polite, as
if to be forgiving rather than possessed, well, that, be so little
and so rare on earth, it always seems that at the expense of someone
to watch.

This is the home coterie D. Acisclo was reborn, moving to Dona Luz.

The intimate attended her every night, namely, Don Acisclo, D. Anselmo,
the priest, Pepe Güeto, his wife and P. Enrique.

The last animation also revived the party.

Don Anselmo, excited, turned to unwrap its doctrines of positivism, and the Father, yielding to
the request of Mrs. Light and her friend again discussed with his usual sweetness, peace and quiet.

Fr
Enrique and was paler or thinner, or more down than before.

In her voice was not noticed never the slightest alteration, no violent or troubled in his manner
or gesture.

Luz used to look at him, and even examine, with restlessness and deceit, and not finding the shortest
symptom of the passion that sometimes had assumed it was calm and happy, discarding all suspicion,
but with a subtle and barely perceptible self-mortification. It seems that Dona Luz tried to cover
his ears inside your soul, and that despite this, sometimes heard
a deep voice, thin and sharp, the Zaheri, saying:

"Could've been
so vain you've imagined that I loved this blessed servant God?

Is not it ridiculous that you have tormented pure smug, calculating the damage a bad involuntary
supposed to have done? Do not fear the devil laugh at you, and God also laugh, if God be laughing
when they look into the interior of your consciousness and see you how flattered at the same
time you scared the invention fatua were going to kill love and jealous of this poor monk? Look
what is unmoved. Kid yourself: he thinks in his devotions, in his books, in their studies, writing
works and cares nothing for you you're married or single. Good castle smoke up your pride! A curious
legend of romantic love and despair in your innermost being forged, there! ".

Doña Luz, on hearing this evil voice, which was no doubt voice from
hell, I was afraid that weigh that love of Father Henry and his jealousy
and despair were illusory.

For this, Mrs. Light was good, and was also energetic and spirited will, and soon imposed voice
and silence to appease the embarrassment in her chest voice and caused uproar.

The healthiest and most reasonable thing was to make sure that the Father had not thought she
would never but as you think of a favorite neighbor, and this was
her heart rejoice, and that it was happy.

Luz therefore wanted on the outside, in their relations with the Father, in his conversations
and deal with him, no novelty was introduced.

Any further prosecution seemed that had previously There was a feeling that she had illicit removed from
your soul, and, if it existed in the father, was illegal and ugly.

Dona Luz could both this idea, that almost never end their show of
affection and fondness to the P. Enrique.

He took her hand, she looked with inexpressible tenderness, enraptured smiled, applauded him as
less than divine judgments about all his sentences, and sought his conversation and charmed with her.

The Father had the rare gift of seeing evil in the depths of our hearts,
and saw in Dona Light, and, warned by his disappointment, he knew
the loving worthless all those shows had.

But just the sweetness of shows like the thought of his stubborn and wrong I love smashing
paid chest.

What do we know if it was from pride or of Christian virtue, or both simultaneously, since
in the spirit of man sometimes mix and match the good and bad instincts and good and bad angels
fighting, motivated by reasons found, and plotting, however, the
same end?

The truth is that neither in a complaint, or a sigh or a look, or a word, that would subtly interpreted,
never revealed the Father Enrique, or left glimpse of the curious and eager eyes of Dona Luz storm
hidden in the center of your soul.

Do not go to the gathering as to where he had gone, and leave the place or the Philippines or
other any country, just married Dona Luz, seemed to Father miserable
weakness and public confession his passion crime.

Imagined that, by withdrawing all or absconding, was giving scandal would have us believe that
until there maybe no one had thought.

The father was embarrassed no one, live it, were to guess his profane love, but nobody had more
shame Dona Luz.

"Let me die, my God, I die - he said - before she knows that I loved, still I love her. "

To accomplish this, the Father himself insisted most excruciating struggle. More control was
needed on the natural condition to win in this fight than the Spartan that without releasing
a tear and without launching a whimper tear the body was left by
the claws of a beast.

Or anger, no envy, no jealousy, no love was proposed show P. Enrique, but fine and unalterable
friendship as usual. And he did so, that Dona Luz finally rid of all suspected that the father had
ever loved. Then he died for those affected tried to come our being by the senses as inaccessible
to believe him does not go directly to God spirit. So better explanation, deferring to his vanity,
that the Father had loved.

Dona Luz also understand that back in his thinking had offended the Father, imaginándosele
love. And so for relief, for the admiration his impassive than caused him, and by the ever
stronger conviction that would not fall in love, do what so, got carried away by his love of
lavish niceties and give more flattering tests profound friendship.

The spirit is strong and suffers everything, but our body is weak, and the spirit that contained it
undertakes business inhuman forces over the body, eventually killing him.

Back in his youth, when he was healthy and robust, the Father had done great penance and was hard
and terrible to his poor body. Later, tired and quebrantadísimo by their work, gave the advice
and mandate of physicians and confessors, and was careful and not abused. The idea that the
excesses of the ascetic life were like a slow and painful suicide and that bordering on perversion
distort and destroy in us the most beautiful work of the Almighty, this being and this way the
soul is clothed in the earth, and that the same Holy Scriptures Temple of the Holy Spirit,
had come to the Father's mind, moving you to withdraw mortifications materials.

Father since then looked after his body and takes care of the slave of a garment, a machine that his
master trusts, so that using it will make the farm thrive.

The that this way of thinking might have dissipated as proud as the Father, giving in mind
that at all God needed him for anything, that its being worth no more than any other man, but
God had created for something and not to be destroyed, destroyed as was violating a divine
law, embarrass, or seeking to disturb the harmonious whole of things, and distract violently
a living force of action points that nature I have checked.

Bowing to all these considerations, P. Henry looking for his health
and his life, holding an orderly regime and good.

Not materially hurt, not long ago plagued with fasting, sackcloth and enforced vigils, but
in this mysterious fighter who ventured in this silence and dissimulation, in this seeming impassive
adopted in this tyrannical rule that wanted to impose their anguished spirit and ordered the
body that leave no betray their pain or in sighs, nor tears, nor even a contraction of the muscles
of the face, came up with the father, perhaps inadvertently, the scariest of the martyrs, the
true revenge, punishing rough his fault, if fault there.

The athlete in the escape of the more spirited drills, the warrior as the most fierce quarrels
battle, supported by the enthusiasm and nervous excitement, do not
feel their fatigue nor do they bow.

The prostration does not come until after the victory. The soldier Marathon is not dead until
he fell to the Athenians the news of the victory. No other kind Fr Henry maintained his role
beautifully, while Donna was in the presence of Light or in the presence of another person either.
But in the removal of his room, as if to loosen the springs that had their nerves in perpetual
tension, would fall faint.

Mal drowned sighs coming from his chest, which was painful oppression,
had dizziness, vision is clouded, he slept in them felt fingers or
cramps, unusual cold Images and which he kept his memory writhed in
confusion, she had a headache and even gets tongue and stuttered when
he spoke to Ramon, his servant.

Repeated attacks of this kind was the P. Enrique, always in the solitude of his room. The father
had some medical knowledge, and he himself was cured with the help
of his servant.

Already had put mustard plasters, and to give strong friction, and applied to the nose some grass by
virtue of which caused a slight issue of blood, covered his head with a cloth dipped in cold
water.

When relieved of his illness he never failed to say to Ramon:

- This has not been anything. Shut up and do not tell anyone I've been sick.

- Well done, my master, replied the servant.

So, one morning, which was the tenth day after the departure of D.
Jaime, Father Henry had an attack stronger than before.

That night, he told after Ramon, the father had not slept, had been greatest disquietude. Ramon had
been walking with long strides across the room.

He had come on tiptoe not angry that you spy, and had been writing.

Then he had gone to notice who walked in the room.

The father fell asleep finally, but with a dream that scared enough
his faithful servant weary dream, accompanied by a hum or whistle
a way to rattle.

His face was haggard and pale and haggard that ordinarily.

Ramon, however, had such respect to the orders of his master was,
who did not dare to call doctor.

Did not dare to wake up to the Father.

This aroused enough, but his awakening was tremendous.

He was still the face muscles; paralyzed tongue could not utter a
word, the look uncertain, and tips rigid body and cold as marble.

Ramon, desolate and full of terror, he sought D. D. Anselmo and called Acisclo for to accompany
his nephew.

Don Anselmo came soon, and just saw and inspected the patient showed
in his face shocked care that inspired him.

- Sea V. Franco, D. Anselmo
- said Don Acisclo -: What is my nephew?

- It is a very serious case
- the doctor said sadly.

- How is it possible?

Who would believe it - said Don Acisclo - when yesterday was so good?

- You did not believe him because he saw the evil that killed him inside. His nephew V. is been
sick and know to hide.

Wish I had not concealed so much and we could get time!

- What,
understands V. not it about time?

- Mr D. Acisclo, you want the heart
to his nephew, but you are courageous and whole soul. What rodeos?
It is necessary that you know V. everything. The Father is in the
greatest danger.

- What condition is yours?

- A rare disease more
robust than in blood, in the weak and sickly, and, the same, in these
much more dangerous. Perhaps regular intellectual work, atrocious
dislikes prolonged vigils, the agitation of the soul and fire severely
restrained the tablet passions, act mysteriously in our bodies and
promote the explosion: the heart swells, becomes an unhealthy and
irregular forces, and suddenly floods the brain with blood.

- What
do you want mean by that?

- I mean that your nephew has a fulminant
apoplexy. 

Don Acisclo, who loved his nephew, who was regarded as
the complement of the glory of his family, he was the other addition,
had a sincere and deep pain, and encouraged with prayers and laments
the zeal of the physician.

He did not need this stimulus. Thank you."

"That's all right," in polite acknowledgment. Then with another look over the hedge, "Say--what
ought I to call you? Earl, or my Lord?"

"It's not necessary for you to call me anything in particular--as a rule. If you were speaking
of me, you might say Lord Mount Dunstan."

G. Selden looked relieved.

"I don't want to be too much off," he said. "And I'd like to ask you a favour. I've only three
weeks here, and I don't want to miss any chances."

"What chance would you like?"

"One of the things I'm biking over the country for, is to get a look at just such a place as
this. We haven't got 'em in America. My old grandmother was always talking about them. Before
her mother brought her to New York she'd lived in a village near some park gates, and she chinned
about it till she died. When I was a little chap I liked to hear her. She wasn't much of an
American. Wore a black net cap with purple ribbons in it, and hadn't outlived her respect for
aristocracy. Gee!" chuckling, "if she'd heard what I said to you just now, I reckon she'd have
thrown a fit. Anyhow she made me feel I'd like to see the kind of places she talked about.
And I shall think myself in luck if you'll let me have a look at yours--just a bike around
the park, if you don't object--or I'll leave the bike outside, if you'd rather."

"I don't object at all," said Mount Dunstan. "The fact is, I happened to be on the point of
asking you to come and have some lunch--when you got on your bicycle."

Selden pushed his cap and cleared his throat.

"I wasn't expecting that," he said. "I'm pretty dusty," with a glance at his clothes. "I need
a wash and brush up--particularly if there are ladies."

There were no ladies, and he could be made comfortable. This being explained to him, he was
obviously rejoiced. With unembarrassed frankness, he expressed exultation. Such luck had not,
at any time, presented itself to him as a possibility in his holiday scheme.

"By gee," he ejaculated, as they walked under the broad oaks of the avenue leading to the house.
"Speaking of luck, this is the limit! I can't help thinking of what my grandmother would say
if she saw me."

He was a new order of companion, but before they had reached the house, Mount Dunstan had begun
to find him inspiring to the spirits. His jovial, if crude youth, his unaffected acknowledgment
of unaccustomedness to grandeur, even when in dilapidation, his delight in the novelty of the
particular forms of everything about him--trees and sward, ferns and moss, his open self-congratulation,
were without doubt cheerful things.

His exclamation, when they came within sight of the house itself, was for a moment disturbing
to Mount Dunstan's composure.

"Hully gee!" he said. "The old lady was right. All I've thought about 'em was 'way off. It's
bigger than a museum." His approval was immense.

During the absence in which he was supplied with the "wash and brush up," Mount Dunstan found
Mr. Penzance in the library. He explained to him what he had encountered, and how it had attracted
him.

"You have liked to hear me describe my Western neighbours," he said. "This youngster is a New
York development, and of a different type. But there is a likeness. I have invited to lunch
with us, a young man whom--Tenham, for instance, if he were here--would call 'a bounder.' He
is nothing of the sort. In his junior-assistant-salesman way, he is rather a fine thing. I
never saw anything more decently human than his way of asking me--man to man, making friends
by the roadside if I was 'up against it.' No other fellow I have known has ever exhibited the
same healthy sympathy."

The Reverend Lewis was entranced. Already he was really quite flushed with interest. As Assyrian
character, engraved upon sarcophogi, would have allured and thrilled him, so was he allured
by the cryptic nature of the two or three American slang phrases Mount Dunstan had repeated
to him. His was the student's simple ardour.

"Up against it," he echoed. "Really! Dear! Dear! And that signifies, you say----"

"Apparently it means that a man has come face to face with an obstacle difficult or impossible
to overcome."

"But, upon my word, that is not bad. It is strong figure of speech. It brings up a picture.
A man hurrying to an end--much desired--comes unexpectedly upon a stone wall. One can almost
hear the impact. He is up against it. Most vivid. Excellent! Excellent!"

The nature of Selden's calling was such that he was not accustomed to being received with a
hint of enthusiastic welcome. There was something almost akin to this in the vicar's courteously
amiable, aquiline countenance when he rose to shake hands with the young man on his entrance.
Mr. Penzance was indeed slightly disappointed that his greeting was not responded to by some
characteristic phrasing. His American was that of Sam Slick and Artemus Ward, Punch and various
English witticisms in anecdote. Life at the vicarage of Dunstan had not revealed to him that
the model had become archaic.

The revelation dawned upon him during his intercourse with G. Selden. The young man in his
cheap bicycling suit was a new development. He was markedly unlike an English youth of his
class, as he was neither shy, nor laboriously at his ease. 

If pulsatilla is very convenient in the beginning of a puerperal fever which Prodrom consist
predominantly of chills and burning sensation of cold with and rubicundeces partial, in the weakness
of the patient and the degree of vital resistance, and the impoverishment of blood with irregularities,
but without suppression of the secretions, ceases to be the same fever confirmed, excepting
if you have phlebitis, since in this case, in addition to being indicated very well may be associated
with mercury.

Your symptoms make it to some purpose at the beginning of encephalitis in people with anemia; its
action in this case is analogous to that of zinc, that can happen
to advantage in the period of invasion.

Eruptive fevers in the period of invasion sometimes provide the indication of the pulsatility in
many others it is a preventive medicine. Aconite is better suited as a preservative and healing,
the measles rash which is more dots. This, which is very special pulsatility, has the following
symptoms: chills and heat, lassitude, headache throbbing, anxiety, nausea, vomiting of bile
or mucus, violent coryza, discharge serous nose, burning eyes, watery eyes, photophobia, skin
punctures, small patches red as flea bites, hoarseness, pain and noise mucous in the throat,
dysphagia, cough dry, fatigue, epistaxis .-- Managed pulsatility from the first moment of measles,
can heal quickly through heavy sweating, the calm and sleep ensue.

The periodic nature of many febrile symptoms of nerve and throbbing, and their fatigue states
functional gastric and declare their convenience in the treatment of intermittent fevers that occur
in the afternoon or after midday, which is observed apyrexia always, great sensitivity to cold,
lack of appetite, mucus, sadness and aversion to movement; in access, reappearance of shivering
at the slightest touch of exterior air increased salivary secretion, mucosa of the nose and
another, these symptoms are also in the stage of heat, usually orgasm, redness, swelling. More
than just a thirst in the stadium to replace all sweat secretion, even diarrhea until the
action ends, so there is a shortage of salivary secretion and stomach, need to drying for a moment the
internal surfaces, leads to development the thirst that can be alive and very pronounced. They
help some doses of pulsatilla many times the action of arsenic in
intermittent fevers with abdominal obstruction.

It has been said with some reason that pulsatility is inconvenient in the acute period of febrile
conditions, reaching usually to banish it from your treatment. It is true that their symptoms,
and the clinic confirmed the show in the maximum acuity of various fevers; but when there is
severe nerve symptoms at all, when from the beginning dominated phenomena venous and lymphatic or gastric
mucosa, when the sharpness of the leading foot to despair, to passive congestion, injection
of the capillaries without erethism constant. Pulsatility, then, is remarkably effective in fevers
and bilious gastric coated, and in the mucosa, before the development of ataxic symptoms, even
when eating, when the reaction is in full force, or that seems numb from the plethora brain. These
cases are more typical of young people delivered to the drinks, and usually suffering congestion
venous and their way of life, that there are developed thirst and shivering in the middle of burning
fever and various symptoms of lassitude, such as rich and turbid urine, skin transformers, salivation,
expectoration, vomiting, bitter, but headaches are dull and dizzying redness of skin especially
in the face that is as swollen.

Pulsatility is the most suitable for curing this kind of fever.

= B = and flegmorrágicas Catarrhal .-- This drug is an undeniable effectiveness in various catarrhal
fever, and in principle, and in the period of sharpness, and often in the relaxation or laxity.
Highlights are the symptoms: malaise, chills, chills repeated, even by the simple change of
position, puffs uncomfortable heat, swelling with redness of the skin or face, tears, sputum, abundant
salivation, or dry of the throat without thirst, spiders in the trachea, dry cough, vomiting,
aggravation, being lying on the back, or sitting up in bed after having slept. The tough, mercury
and eyebright are great analogy of action, when the condition is primarily located in the membranes
of the eyes, nose, throat, bronchi. Pulsatility is more related to digital, bittersweet, mercury,
chamomile, when the mucosa GI is the most affected.

In all these fevers, is more pulsatile indicated periods of invasion and relaxation or looseness
in the flegmásico, although it is often convenient in the period higher acuity in patients,
who due to age, sex and constitution in harmony with his action, and whenever there is a background
of fatigue that expresses the cold chills, the fickleness of symptoms,
blood stasis, the redness of the affected mucosa alive, and heat more
pronounced, dry afternoon and evening.

= C = inflammations and local irritative conditions .-- All venous and lymphatic inflammations
are in relation to the throbbing in attention to the limits of the characters of the action; otitis
especially where this drug is therefore most suitable, the youngest and delicate is the patient,
the inflammation occupies preferably the intermediate parts, hearing internal, pain, even
excruciating, is characterized by pulsations and feelings interrupt him cold. Otorrhea that occurs
after inflammation is corrected pulsatility effectively when the discharge is purulent and thick
mucus.

This medicine cures also these flows, but are located in other mucosa, such as eye, vagina .....
The same happens in deafness due to the congestion of the mucosa headset and his hyper .....

It has been used advantageously in scrofulous ophthalmia pulsatilla, menstrual and catarrhal
in whose conditions are the best auxiliary mercury and sulfur.

In these cases, agglutination of the eyelids on waking, redness of the conjunctiva or strong injection
of the capillaries. Pulsatility and eyebright and cuttlefish, is effective in certain internal
disorders deformity of the eye pupil, incipient amaurosis that develops slowly.

Pulsatility also plays in the menstrual angina and which develops gradually not passing or subacute
state after use of mercury or that has dry throat without thirst, feeling of tension and swelling
in the affected part, dark, endolorimiento of glands in the neck, chills with or without fever. Also
corresponds the state of lassitude, of swelling and hypersecretion of the mucous membranes due to inflammation
catarrhal, sulfur and machine complete its action. Coryza combat readiness is presented with
its essential symptoms such as headache front towards the root of the nose, poor appetite, adipsia,
afternoon chills, loss of taste and smell, abundant secretion of
mucus thick, yellow, green or odor.

The extent of this condition to the larynx with hoarseness and even hoarseness, sensation of
excoriation and itching, wet cough and chest pain, also requires pulsatility.

Well you can say that this drug is also in line in all mucus serous or the economy, provided they are
from an inflammation or previous Fluxion, but is not appropriate at colliquative flows. It is
very effective to play a suppressed flow by the presentation of another, as the suppression
of sweat, for example, a bronchial secretion, but not by a proper cooling aconite and bittersweet,
or a moral emotion or by the pain, as well as chamomile and ignacia, not out of weakness or
by congestion radical brain, such as quinine and mercury ..... Inflammation of the breast
usually claims pulsatilla during lactation or soon after birth, is frequently mentioned in amenorrhea,
and dysmenorrhea in young women or the cold sensitive and impressionable.

The leukorrhea, in short, typical of this medicine, which comes from
frequent congestion, of difficult periods, venous status heaviness,
warmth and chills.

= D = Diseases of the respiratory organs.

1. º bronchitis .-- The pulsatilla be used in the period of bronchitis subirritativo mucus
secretion easier, when the cough is dry and in the early hours, which is soon wet with easy expectoration,
which are abundant phlegm, yellow or bitter, salty or bland, as there are frequent nausea and
stomach strong shocks, which coughing is excited by a tickling in the larynx, or by burning, scratching,
and feeling more manifest dry afternoon and evening lying, that there is pain in the belly and back,
with jabs at these points and back after coughing, or feeling as of chest contusion. In these
cases more than others is important to take into account the symptoms
pulsatilla general, it managed to bronchitis and frankly inflammatory
Ereta in its period of weakness, may aggravate the disease and prolong
it, changing wet cough and easy to dry and uncomfortable.

2. No Pneumonia .-- You can use this medicine after the bryony in catarrhal pneumonia and benign
in people with delicate, sensitive, weak, at the time of the resolution,
when the expectoration is easy and abundant, it is more bloody and
the thorax is pain and soreness is erratic.

3. No haemoptysis pulsatilla .-- This condition requires, when are lumpy bloody sputum or in blackish
clots. Is particularly indicated in the menstrual haemoptysis in the haemorrhoidal. Judging interest
at this point to designate some suitable drugs in the expectoration of blood, are preferable
aconite, arnica, ipecac, bryony, belladonna when blood or red blood Espector is not coagulated
and erethism and congestion active, the sundew, the digital, the mezereum, the azoato of potash,
when the extremities are cold, the blood and the patient turned pale, the rhux, if repeated bloody
sputum at long intervals and in small quantities, the sulfuric acid in chronic haemoptysis,
the ledum palustre, when blood Espector only by the violence of the
cough, the charcoal, if the bloody expectoration is preceded and followed
by a sensation of burning heat .....

4. º Pertussis .-- Although
pulsatility is inconvenient in this affection, good will, however,
thinking about it for certain spasmodic cough with sensation of constriction
in the larynx and bronchi, must also appear next to the white hellebore
treatment with spasmodic coughs and chills, usually pale face, loss
of appetite, adipsia ..... Pulsatility is generally useful in wet
cough and when the expectoration is Free: This last character in the
difference of tartar emetic, the Senegalese and squill; differs from
iodine, ipecac, of the nightshade and belladonna, for a less congestive,
and falling to the remains of the inflammation and its consequences,
while that these drugs are better suited to initial flegmásico state,
acute or subacute; differs in short, nux vomica, the bryony, chamomile,
by its less overt erethism and the general characters of his action.

Asthma whose access is presented in the afternoon or at bedtime, and senile asthma caused by pulmonary
edema with vesicular breathing requires pulsatilla, if congestive phenomena asthenic, abundant
expectoration, malaise, great sensitivity to cold. Tin deserves to be taken into consideration
in asthmatic conditions of this genre.

= E. = Diseases of the digestive organs.

1. No coating is gastric .-- pulsatility is often used in certain gastric disorders starting
with malaise, chills, and aversion to food, in which cases may in
fact prevent pregnancy gastropathy gastric and long lasting.

This medicine is almost Gastro and specific in other conditions, with or without fever, are produced
by greasy foods, and perpetuated in spite of his expulsion by the emetic, or when is no time
to resort to evacuating, it is also efficacious when pulsatility reaction is slow, it is cold
or shivering, salivation, vomiting or diarrhea.

Recently, the venous lymphatic nature is revealed from the beginning or in the course the evolution
of an acute illness, can not justly claim the drug, as when the disease affects the digestive organs.
Behold the progress of these conditions: inflammation is symptomatic of the coating is produced
by the stomach causes already mentioned; Fluxion presents first a kind of developing a gastric
indigestion, so which the stomach is malfunctioning, and not react with liquid and pouring bile
everywhere. From this moment, it expresses Fluxion symptoms that might require other medications,
if the indication of the pulsatility was not insured by the characters
its general action.

These symptoms include aversion to food, especially to the meat, adipsia, coated tongue, yellow,
gray, bitter or sour taste, bitter belching or with the taste of food, water accumulation in
the mouth, nausea and general cold, food regurgitation or vomiting, or green materials, mucous membranes,
bitter or sour, sensitivity epigastrium to the pressure.

2. No gastro-intestinal irritations. Gastralgias. Enteralgia .-- The influence of the pulsatility
in the digestive tract irritation with constipation, caused by the excess of drinks or by
abuse of the pleasures of the senses is important but secondary. My half gastralgias safe cure
developed by venous stasis or excite this gender or menstrual, lancinating pains are aggravated
by movement and a false step There is continuous nausea or vomiting that are replaced by diarrhea,
only a thirst for the violence of the pain, there is tension and pulsation in the epigastrium
with anguish, or corrosion rather a feeling that is relieved by eating. It is equally effective in
pain belly that recognize the same causes, with rumbling, tension
and tenderness of the belly, needles and cramping pains.

It is convenient to indicate that these enteralgia and gastralgias While there are more constipation
than diarrhea, such as alumina, while in cases of this own gender nux vomica, but you have diarrhea
than constipation.

3. No Diarrhea, vomiting .-- pulsatility is one of the most effective medicines for diarrhea with
pultáceas stools, mucous, liquid, fetid, producing a burning sensation or stinging in the anus,
especially when there is nausea, belching, colic, and deposition more frequent at night. This
medication is less effective in so-called uncontrollable vomiting pregnancy than arsenic, and
even better ipecac and nux vomica, but is generally more useful than opium and platinum, can stand
beside the white hellebore.

4. º Diseases of the Liver .-- These conditions are often characteristic
of their pulsatilla relations with the venous system, if there is
distress, attempted to vomit, saliva abundant stools bilious symptoms
of hepatitis, and more especially the following: tensive and lancinating
pain in the liver region, swelling, fullness in this region and in
the stomach, stinging pain towards the right shoulder blade; exacerbation
of morning pain, bilious vomiting for night decubitus position is
more bearable, insomnia caused by internal heat; chills at the time
of pain, redness and swelling of the superficial veins; Molimo hemorrhoids
or menstruation, or alteration vein caused by the cessation of this
flow.

Pulsatility is more indicated in subacute and chronic hepatitis is a general looseness or weakness,
it is also very useful in jaundice, alone or alternating with digital with yellowing of the
skin, pasty mouth, coated tongue, loss of appetite, disgust to food, discomfort and fullness
in the stomach, discolored stools, cloudy urine, weakness, bad debts, despair.

= F. = Diseases of the genito-urinary.

1. º Fluxion of the uterus. Being the state .-- dysmenorrhea venous base the indication of pulsatilla
in all local conditions, to this state rather than to specific organ damage should this medicine
effective in the conditions of the uterus. As this body is the Fluxion principal of pulsatile fluxion,
then, is the origin of indications more frequent in many dysmenorrhea and amenorrhea, in which
hardly presents catamenial flow of blackish blood.

As otherwise proper fluxion pulsatility is fast, mobile, erratic, and that frequency is of the
apparent vague forms of rheumatism, retains this character already set or not in the uterus, or
concluded by dissipate or divert to other organs, thus is frequently observed in menstrual
disorders, recurrent erysipelas of, ophthalmia, gastric and intestinal disorders with vomiting,
symptoms of gastritis, diarrhea.

In this case, abuse is easy to understand that some pilots have made
managing pulsatility in the suppression or retardation of the rules,
when these accidents do not match with organic weakness, and even
the nervous excitement attached to the node, similar states to the
changes which tends to produce this drug, the necessary elements of
intervention effective therapy.

It is a fact that congestion and are permanent or flegmásicas that take place in utero and
that slow, suppress or increase menstrual flow, do not correspond to the pulsatile, but the aconite,
belladonna, nux vomica, sulfur and calcium carbonate and ....., occur in women of different
temperaments are more blood, more irritable, more bilious.

This is not to say that pulsatility may not be indicated in some fluxional,
even uterine more stable, more active and are manifested in such people,
but even in these cases, fund is discovered fatigue and sluggishness
in the course of these bottlenecks.

These depend provisions venous stagnation due to a common of these parts, to a diminution contractility
by the repetition of congestion, alteration of the innervation the uterus by the abuse of pleasures
or a neurological or rheumatic condition. Hence it Women who have aborted several times, and
those in the critical age, are in pulsatility heroic medicine for menstrual disturbances, especially
if retardation or suppression of the flow.

As above it follows that the magnesia, subcarbonate of potassium, iron, cuttlefish, charcoal and chamomile,
have different indications of the pulsatile and drugs cited in the previous period, but with conditions
diathetic symptomatic and opposite, although pulsatile, for their sphere of action, it sometimes
to early menstruation or metrorrhagia or repeated frequently.

This medicine is a wonderful performance in the delicate women, lymphatic or nerve and melancholy, with
deep sleep, usually in the extremities cold, heat and alternatives passenger; disposed to
diarrhea, to the coryza, to leucorrhoea, toothaches to changing site easily, coinciding with
the non-appearance of menstruation, which slows or for some days,
or have been removed.

Pulsatility in these cases, regulates or causes menstruation and correct the inconveniences incidental
or sympathetic.

Also combat menstrual cramps that occur in the early hours of the appearance of rules, with heaviness
in the lower abdomen, sensation of pressure on the hips and towards the kidneys, pulls in the
thighs, numbness of the lower parts while seated, and painful pressure in the sacrum and to defecate.
There is usually pain in the back, alteration vision, nausea, yawning, menstrual retardation
or failure. White hellebore subcarbonate of potash used as intercurrent with throbbing in the
intermediate days from period to period are sometimes fully effective.

2. º Metrorrhagia. Delivery. Milk fever. Agalactia .-- Apart from the services that this Amenorrhea
drug and other disorders of menstruation, it is also convenient the metrorrhagia and a gush of
black blood and clots, circumstances youth, temperament, age and
other critical symptoms that correspond to their action.

It is necessary pulsatilla frequently in accidents menopause to moderate the overall effects of
nux vomica, or to facilitate or complete the action of carbonate of lime on the uterus.

The clinic has shown that the pulsatility has an elective action on the tissue matrix; that
this action deserves consideration call for using it in previous cases, and a fact that has
even beautiful when it comes back the contractility of this organ
his normal rate.

That's how quiet the false labor pains and which extend to the kidneys, regulates the real and
accelerates the expulsion of the placenta. Science has observations indicating the property to
harmonize and lead to uterine contractions and therefore the correct a false position of the
fetus and facilitate the sense version favorable to labor. The creation in a hospital from a clinic
of this kind would be most importance.

Subacute and chronic endometritis, and that its development has been
slow and hidden, to unfold quickly, or that it is relieved by appropriate
drugs such as aconite and belladonna ... pulsatilla transferred with
that is that for the polyurethane foam pains towards the uterus and
vagina, and darting in constraining the neck, burning sensation burning
in the vagina and labia majora, and metritis caused by the suppression
of the rules.

Accelerate the expulsion of the placenta if no violent hemorrhage, as in this case it is preferable
Secale cornutum the most convenient even when the introduction of the hand for EXTRACTION.

Pulsatility plays lochia suppressed by cooling or by a sad emotion, in the uterus causing fluxion which
tends to leave this body and spreading to the peritoneum the brain ... pulsatilla avoiding this congestion
milk secretion in new mothers who do not want or should not breed,
and the nurses who want to suppress it.

His use in milk fever requires more than in any other case, the existence of general symptoms analogous
to the effects of the drug.

Pulsatility was also used in some cases of agalactia in precisely those that the congestion of
the uterus is perpetuated and when this body is the pars Mandans of Fluxion should promote
milk secretion. Often in these circumstances that arise sweats, chills that alternate with
partial or general, large lax, interrupted sleep by dreams, and in the midst of these symptoms,
increased lochia, white now, and the disappearance of milk in the breasts: pulsatility managed
properly can prevent fever or puerperal phlebitis, and to get lactation
recurrence.

3. º Prostatitis. Dysuria. Catarrh of the vagina, bladder, urethra .-- Inflammation Prostate
ordinarily require to use this drug in people who have suffered from scrofula, in the old,
in the lymphatics and temperament Venous pain are burning with pressure on the neck of the bladder,
frequent chills, mucous deposit in the urine, leaving small, thin jet ..... When this happens
the acute stage chronic is often useful even pulsatility, although
no need to use other drugs adapted to the new symptoms.

 And she sat down and showed him that she had
brought a package of tobacco with her, and actually a wonder of a red and yellow jar to hold
it, at the sight of which unheard-of joys his rapture was so great that his trembling hands
could scarcely clasp his treasures.

"Tee-hee! Tee-hee-ee! Deary me! Thankee--thankee, my lady," he tittered, and he gazed and blinked
at her beauty through heavenly tears.

"Nearly a hundred years old, and he has lived on sixteen shillings a week all his life, and
earned it by working every hour between sunrise and sunset," Betty said to her sister, when
she went home. "A man has one life, and his has passed like that. It is done now, and all the
years and work have left nothing in his old hands but his pipe. That's all. I should not like
to put it out for him. Who am I that I can buy him a new one, and keep it filled for him until
the end? How did it happen? No," suddenly, "I must not lose time in asking myself that. I must
get the new pipe."

She did it--a pipe of great magnificence--such as drew to the Doby cottage as many callers
as the village could provide, each coming with fevered interest, to look at it--to be allowed
to hold and examine it for a few moments, guessing at its probable enormous cost, and returning
it reverently, to gaze at Doby with respect--the increase of which can be imagined when it
was known that he was not only possessor of the pipe, but of an assurance that he would be
supplied with as much tobacco as he could use, to the end of his days. From the time of the
advent of the pipe, Grandfather Doby became a man of mark, and his life in the chimney corner
a changed thing. A man who owns splendours and unlimited, excellent shag may like friends to
drop in and crack jokes--and even smoke a pipe with him--a common pipe, which, however, is
not amiss when excellent shag comes free.

"He lives in a wild whirl of gaiety--a social vortex," said Betty to Lady Anstruthers, after
one of her visits. "He is actually rejuvenated. I must order some new white smocks for him
to receive his visitors in. Someone brought him an old copy of the Illustrated London News
last night. We will send him illustrated papers every week."

In the dull old brain, God knows what spark of life had been relighted. Young Mrs. Doby related
with chuckles that granddad had begged that his chair might be dragged to the window, that
he might sit and watch the village street. Sitting there, day after day, he smoked and looked
at his pictures, and dozed and dreamed, his pipe and tobacco jar beside him on the window ledge.
At any sound of wheels or footsteps his face lighted, and if, by chance, he caught a glimpse
of Betty, he tottered to his feet, and stood hurriedly touching his bald forehead with a reverent,
palsied hand.

"'Tis 'urr," he would say, enrapt. "I seen 'urr--I did." And young Mrs. Doby knew that this
was his joy, and what he waited for as one waits for the coming of the sun.

"'Tis 'urr! 'Tis 'urr!"

The vicar's wife, Mrs. Brent, who since the affair of John Wilson's fire had dropped into the
background and felt it indiscreet to present tales of distress at the Court, began to recover
her courage. Her perfunctory visits assumed a new character. The vicarage had, of course, called
promptly upon Miss Vanderpoel, after her arrival. Mrs. Brent admired Miss Vanderpoel hugely.

"You seem so unlike an American," she said once in her most tactful, ingratiating manner--which
was very ingratiating indeed.

"Do I? What is one like when one is like an American? I am one, you know."

"I can scarcely believe it," with sweet ardour.

"Pray try," said Betty with simple brevity, and Mrs. Brent felt that perhaps Miss Vanderpoel
was not really very easy to get on with.

"She meant to imply that I did not speak through my nose, and talk too much, and too vivaciously,
in a shrill voice," Betty said afterwards, in talking the interview over with Rosy. "I like
to convince myself that is not one's sole national characteristic. Also it was not exactly
Mrs. Brent's place to kindly encourage me with the information that I do not seem to belong
to my own country."

Lady Anstruthers laughed, and Betty looked at her inquiringly.

"You said that just like--just like an Englishwoman."

"Did I?" said Betty.

Mrs. Brent had come to talk to her because she did not wish to trouble dear Lady Anstruthers.
Lady Anstruthers already looked much stronger, but she had been delicate so long that one hesitated
to distress her with village matters. She did not add that she realised that she was coming
to headquarters. The vicar and herself were much disturbed about a rather tiresome old woman--old
Mrs. Welden--who lived in a tiny cottage in the village. She was eighty-three years old, and
a respectable old person--a widow, who had reared ten children. The children had all grown
up, and scattered, and old Mrs. Welden had nothing whatever to live on. No one knew how she
lived, and really she would be better off in the workhouse. She could be sent to Brexley Union,
and comfortably taken care of, but she had that singular, obstinate dislike to going, which
it was so difficult to manage. She had asked for a shilling a week from the parish, but that
could not be allowed her, as it would merely uphold her in her obstinate intention of remaining
in her cottage, and taking care of herself--which she could not do. Betty gathered that the
shilling a week would be a drain on the parish funds, and would so raise the old creature to
affluence that she would feel she could defy fate. And the contumacity of old men and women
should not be strengthened by the reckless bestowal of shillings.

Knowing that Miss Vanderpoel had already gained influence among the village people, Mrs. Brent
said, she had come to ask her if she would see old Mrs. Welden and argue with her in such a
manner as would convince her that the workhouse was the best place for her. It was, of course,
so much pleasanter if these old people could be induced to go to Brexley willingly.

"Shall I be undermining the whole Political Economy of Stornham if I take care of her myself?"
suggested Betty.

"You--you will lead others to expect the same thing will be done for them."

"When one has resources to draw on," Miss Vanderpoel commented, "in the case of a woman who
has lived eighty-three years and brought up ten children until they were old and strong enough
to leave her to take care of herself, it is difficult for the weak of mind to apply the laws
of Political Economics. I will go and see old Mrs. Welden."

If the Vanderpoels would provide for all the obstinate old men and women in the parish, the
Political Economics of Stornham would proffer no marked objections. "A good many Americans,"
Mrs. Brent reflected, "seemed to have those odd, lavish ways," as witness Lady Anstruthers
herself, on her first introduction to village life. Miss Vanderpoel was evidently a much stronger
character, and extremely clever, and somehow the stream of the American fortune was at last
being directed towards Stornham--which, of course, should have happened long ago. A good deal
was "being done," and the whole situation looked more promising. So was the matter discussed
and summed up, the same evening after dinner, at the vicarage.

Betty found old Mrs. Welden's cottage. It was in a green lane, turning from the village street--which
was almost a green lane itself. A tiny hedged-in front garden was before the cottage door.
A crazy-looking wicket gate was in the hedge, and a fuschia bush and a few old roses were in
the few yards of garden. There were actually two or three geraniums in the window, showing
cheerful scarlet between the short, white dimity curtains.

"A house this size and of this poverty in an American village," was Betty's thought, "would
be a bare and straggling hideousness, with old tomato cans in the front yard. Here is one of
the things we have to learn from them."

When she knocked at the door an old woman opened it. She was a well-preserved and markedly
respectable old person, in a decent print frock and a cap. At the sight of her visitor she
beamed and made a suggestion of curtsey.

"How do you do, Mrs. Welden?" said Betty. "I am Lady Anstruthers' sister, Miss Vanderpoel.
I thought I would like to come and see you."

"Thank you, miss, I am obliged for the kindness, miss. Won't you come in and have a chair?"

There were no signs of decrepitude about her, and she had a cheery old eye. And these young noisy joyful,
exuberant juices, suffered an ordeal tantalesco talking about the most beautiful girls of the city.
The admired and lived apart from them, despite moving in a narrow space which forced them to continuous
games. His whole dream was to get a license to live several days in Mallorca or on the Peninsula,
off the island virtuous and shy, which only supported the stranger as husband embark in search
of other lands, where it was easy to expand exacerbated their desires, like those of the college
and the inmate.

Women! ... Those young people did not talk about something else, and
Febrer, sitting at the large table of the Fund approved quietly his
words and lamentations. The truth was, that in common with every other old woman, she had secretly
aspired to being visited some day by the amazing young lady from "Meriker." Betty had yet to
learn of the heartburnings which may be occasioned by an unconscious favouritism. She was not
aware that when she dropped in to talk to old Doby, his neighbour, old Megworth, peered from
behind his curtains, with the dew of envy in his rheumy eyes.

"S'ems," he mumbled, "as if they wasn't nobody now in Stornham village but Gaarge Doby--s'ems
not." They were very fierce in their jealousy of attention, and one must beware of rousing
evil passions in the octogenarian breast.

The young lady from "Meriker" had not so far had time to make a call at any cottage in old
Mrs. Welden's lane--and she had knocked just at old Mrs. Welden's door. This was enough to
put in good spirits even a less cheery old person.

At first Betty wondered how she could with delicacy ask personal questions. A few minutes'
conversation, however, showed her that the personal affairs of Sir Nigel's tenants were also
the affairs of not only himself, but of such of his relatives as attended to their natural
duty. Her presence in the cottage, and her interest in Mrs. Welden's ready flow of simple talk,
were desirable and proper compliments to the old woman herself. She was a decent and self-respecting
old person, but in her mind there was no faintest glimmer of resentment of questions concerning
rent and food and the needs of her simple, hard-driven existence. She had answered such questions
on many occasions, when they had not been asked in the manner in which her ladyship's sister
asked them. Mrs. Brent had scolded her and "poked about" her cottage, going into her tiny "wash
'us," and up into her infinitesimal bedroom under the slanting roof, to see that they were
kept clean. Miss Vanderpoel showed no disposition to "poke." She sat and listened, and made
an inquiry here and there, in a nice voice and with a smile in her eyes. There was some pleasure
in relating the whole history of your eighty-three years to a young lady who listened as if
she wanted to hear it. So old Mrs. Welden prattled on. About her good days, when she was young,
and was kitchenmaid at the parsonage in a village twenty miles away; about her marriage with
a young farm labourer; about his "steady" habits, and the comfort they had together, in spite
of the yearly arrival of a new baby, and the crowding of the bit of a cottage his master allowed
them. Ten of 'em, and it had been "up before sunrise, and a good bit of hard work to keep them
all fed and clean." But she had not minded that until Jack died quite sudden after a sunstroke.
It was odd how much colour her rustic phraseology held. She made Betty see it all. The apparent
natural inevitableness of their being turned out of the cottage, because another man must have
it; the years during which she worked her way while the ten were growing up, having measles,
and chicken pox, and scarlet fever, one dying here and there, dropping out quite in the natural
order of things, and being buried by the parish in corners of the ancient church yard. Three
of them "was took" by scarlet fever, then one of a "decline," then one or two by other illnesses.
Only four reached man and womanhood. One had gone to Australia, but he never was one to write,
and after a year or two, Betty gathered, he had seemed to melt away into the great distance.
Two girls had married, and Mrs. Welden could not say they had been "comf'able." They could
barely feed themselves and their swarms of children. The other son had never been steady like
his father. He had at last gone to London, and London had swallowed him up. Betty was struck
by the fact that she did not seem to feel that the mother of ten might have expected some return
for her labours, at eighty-three.

Her unresentful acceptance of things was at once significant and moving. Betty found her amazing.
What she lived on it was not easy to understand. She seemed rather like a cheerful old bird,
getting up each unprovided-for morning, and picking up her sustenance where she found it.

"There's more in the sayin' 'the Lord pervides' than a good many thinks," she said with a small
chuckle, marked more by a genial and comfortable sense of humour than by an air of meritoriously
quoting the vicar. "He DO."

She paid one and threepence a week in rent for her cottage, and this was the most serious drain
upon her resources. She apparently could live without food or fire, but the rent must be paid.
"An' I do get a bit be'ind sometimes," she confessed apologetically, "an' then it's a trouble
to get straight."

Her cottage was one of a short row, and she did odd jobs for the women who were her neighbours.
There were always babies to be looked after, and "bits of 'elp" needed, sometimes there were
"movings" from one cottage to another, and "confinements" were plainly at once exhilarating
and enriching. Her temperamental good cheer, combined with her experience, made her a desirable
companion and assistant. She was engagingly frank.

"When they're new to it, an' a bit frightened, I just give 'em a cup of 'ot tea, an' joke with
'em to cheer 'em up," she said. "I says to Charles Jenkins' wife, as lives next door, 'come
now, me girl, it's been goin' on since Adam an' Eve, an' there's a good many of us left, isn't
there?' An' a fine boy it was, too, miss, an' 'er up an' about before 'er month."

She was paid in sixpences and spare shillings, and in cups of tea, or a fresh-baked loaf, or
screws of sugar, or even in a garment not yet worn beyond repair. And she was free to run in
and out, and grow a flower or so in her garden, and talk with a neighbour over the low dividing
hedge. 

We're on the case to clarify the indications of hellebore, all indications are well characterized
and is not perhaps possible to find in the medical field of supply means to their effectiveness:
1. º in Asiatic cholera and the Indians in the large and fast disturbances digestive functions, although
the result of indigestion, but there are evacuations repeated and more or less numerous from vomiting
and diarrhea, that the subject of these evacuations is watery, not produced, with white lumps
in the liquid supernatant, character of bowel movements confirmed cholera, which is pale, cold extremity
in the skin that turns earthy and flabby; the eyes are sunken, surrounded by a blue circle, and
presents cramps of the extremities. Hellebore has been very effective in the cholerine simple diarrhea,
presented by the influence of the epidemic, many observations prove further its preventive
power of anger, and be given alone, and alternated with copper, which also adapts to the deep affection
of the nervous system and more particularly to the cramps.

2. No In certain febrile illnesses usually fast or intermittent, which dominates the cold, the
exterior of all, it only shows the heat inside, the urine is dark, and there is cold sweat on
the trunk and forehead. Vomiting and droppings alvine would only confirm more and more the
need of hellebore. There are still ataxic fevers and serious nervous disorders, with long and violent
cold, heat, limited to the viscera, or also concentrated on the head or chest, and characterized
by palpitations and distress, and, in the stomach and intestines, by a profound disturbance
of the innervation and manure for repeated cold sweats in the head just a few times, with spasms
muscle or general convulsions, and sometimes violent pains in a column about vertebral or
elsewhere, and the lack of debris. In these cases, may be preferred camphor and its action as
readily be useful, if no evacuations or not dominate the scene.

Hellebore makes women menstrual evacuation trifles, when a cold glacial the extremities or the
skin in general looks like it contains the catamenial flow. This medicine is also very useful
in some vomiting of blood, with very cold exterior, accompanied spasms, anxiety, palpitations and
heat inside. In similar circumstances, hellebore should uncontrollable vomiting in pregnancy
in epileptic seizures, in whooping cough, in hysteria, in asthma, in the latter two cases there is thirst
and diarrhea after dinner, and all indications of this medicine can be seen small pulse and
frequent, sometimes almost extinguished; cold exterior, hoarseness, cold sweats, muscle weakness
and great depression, even when the condition lasts only two or three days, emaciation, sunken eyes,
cold skin, wrinkled, without elasticity.

Dry cough and hoarse with spiders or tingling in the throat, usually without noticeable symptoms,
sometimes cured with hellebore, and only, and alternating with nux vomica or the sundew. It is also
effective in dry coryza ozena with slight swelling of the nose with periostitis, in some diarrhea
caused by cold drinks, headache and great weakness hysterical hemicráneas muscle excess hunger in
nursing; disposition to fade after having out of an acute, severe, dyspepsia with vomiting and
constipation food rebellious, or just the latter, people are always hungry and they are filled
promptly in hypochondriacal and maniacs.

In hypochondriasis with extreme weakness and anguish, and strangulated hernia, can hellebore, because
it does not heal, a change that facilitate the action of other medicines, or administered in
large doses, develop a pro-development disturbance row of special effects, as seen when used in
certain hobbies with agitation and delirium, in madness essential to lubricity, constipation,
tympanitis, horripilation and jumping muscle. Be made for the distinction in constipation and
diarrhea of hellebore, that this and vomiting exist when the brain is not affected, while constipation
requires that the effects of the medication you have been disturbed and this delirium, hallucinations,
or that there is a state of tension in the nervous system relationship is as compressed by violent
neuralgia, with despair. These neuralgias the hellebore are presented accessibility are dislacerantes,
and general phenomena are: prostration sweating or cold, rigors, anxiety and heart palpitations,
although there feeling cold, warm bed aggravates them. Hellebore, in short, is most suitable in pain
headache and headache with cold at the apex, or with a sensation of cold and heat alternate,
which headaches in the heat, beat and symptoms of congestion.

= Dose .=-- generally be preferred lower dose, from 2 to 3 drops of
the tincture even some blood in the third and Eighteenth attenuation.

These amounts are given by fractions more or less repeated, according to the urgency of evil.
It is not for this work to try violent effects of elimination, the purgative doses, emetic,
and other indications spreading of the law of similars, but only, of the dose, which, though considerable,
are apt to develop special effects that are within the purview of this law therapy.

Zinc (ZINC).

§ I. - History.

The zinc metal and zinc oxide are the only experiments and whose effects are similar, so we only
attend these two substances reuiniéndolas under the same name. We believe, however, that the
action of various zinc salts have enough similarities accurate with
the metal and its oxide.

The zinc oxide was the only previously used in elephantiasis, smallpox, whooping cough, nervous
asthma, the chronic heartburn, hysteria, chorea, epilepsy, seizures partial ophthalmia, fetid
ulcers, chapped skin, lips and nipples, in the excoriation of children and some deterioration of
sight. Zinc sulfate has been preferred gonorrhoeae injections, and nerve and eruptive fevers, palpitations,
neuralgia, tetanus ..... Zinc preparations in general were regarded as antispasmodic and antiherpetic
and dried but merely nominal indications of disease for which they advocated were so vague, which
is completed by to forget almost everything and considering the zinc
as an antispasmodic unfaithful.

§ II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

The effects of zinc express their positive properties.

Its action on the nervous system elective lymph node is not in doubt, for she explanations the particularities
of their effects on the nervous system and the circulation ratio, and it shows their influence
on the skin and mucous membranes.

This elective action of zinc is depressing, almost to the abolition
of physiological orgasm: the sensation of cold penetrates to the bone,
there are violent tremors throughout the body, weakness excess, the
reluctance to move, numbness, the sensation of cold leads to this
state by an exaltation of sensibility and contractility, and in spite
of all symptoms have a tendency asthenic, is also preceded by other
symptoms of irritation blood without peer and an asthenic character
and venous.

Espondrémos the main symptoms to go the various indications of this Medication: 1. º in some catarrhal
fever in children encephalitis and hydrocephalus after aconite and belladonna, when nervous
state predominates, and in this initial period irritative fever which is manifested by rigors,
tremor of the limbs, shivering with cold exterior and interior heat, thirst, nausea or vomiting,
urination and clear contraction of the pupils, dryness of mucosal surfaces, in estincion symptoms
of the vital forces of paralysis or incipient hydrocephalus, encephalitis,
and in exanthematous fevers of children in the last period;

2. º
Pneumon Under certain conditions, liver, stomach, uterus, in consequence
of erethism that ensues after a convulsion, neuralgia, a shock: in
these circumstances it develops a nervous general, indeterminate or
nervous fever with chills and tremors, there are also, according to
the site of the condition, tightness, cough, bloody expectoration,
heat sensation in the chest, stitches, palpitations, irregular jerking
movements heart, stitches in the hypochondria, tension and tenderness
in the liver region, bloating, constipation, heat and throbbing in
the abdomen, cramping, expulsion of gas, diarrhea mucosa and even
bloody excess sensitivity of the genitals, hysterical symptoms, burning
sensation when urinating, bloody urine, pressure and tension hypogastric,
lumbago;

3. º in some subacute Flogos mucous membranes, and in particular
the eye with redness in the wattles, dryness, burning pain, excoriation,
oozing in them; inflammation sometimes the edge of the eyelids and
mucus flow purulent ophthalmia blennorrhagic that first fight with
appropriate medication to the cause and to the acuity, as mercury,
belladonna, lime sulfur, etc. ...., in subacute phlogosis Finally,
the urethra, vagina and rectum, with serous exudation, or purulent
mucus, itching, pruritus, sensation of excoriation and burning;

4.

No congestion in some varicose veins of the lower abdomen, constipation and symptoms of chronic gastritis
or enteritis, hypochondria, nervousness, and that great moral susceptibility; hematuria or
vomiting usually occur; in dysmenorrhea and retardation of the rules by spasmodic affection,
and metrorrhagia failure, or at least in excess menstruation and advance, in the provision of abortion
for the same cause of congestion or venous stasis and internal varices; in varicose disease of lower
limbs, frostbite and rubicundeces irritant of the skin of the nose and the mucosa with dry coryza ozena;

5.
No cracks in the nipple and particularly of mucous membranes in the limits of the skin, the
lips, genitals, noses, at the corners of the eyes, in some cases itching, especially in the joints,
chronic impetigo, herpes dry crusty very old, and several other herpes
sores and irritated edges, which are developed grains or small boils;

6.
º in arthritic and rheumatic pain complicated with general weakness
and swelling chronically affected joints, in dislacerantes of rheumatic
pains, when aggravated by heat and movement on all the excitement
and blood determines and is characterized by swelling of the superficial
veins;

7.

No access in certain spasmodic hysterical, or epileptic, screaming in principle; but rather
in the habitual state of irritability of the persons so affected, in a sort of nymphomania
in postpartum women, from an irritation of the organs genital diminution of milk secretion,
and dysmenorrhea or amenorrhea resulting of masturbation with irritation of the exterior parts
of the genital organs;

8. º In hypochondriasis accompanied by spasms, muscle tremors, sensitivity
general outdoor forced to rest, restless sleep, despair and suicidal
thoughts;

9. º in some isolated paralysis that slowly unfold through
major upheavals nerve neuralgia or in consequence of repeated, in
a state of wasting and weakness general muscular; in amaurosis which
develops slowly, in consequence of conditions of this kind or arthritis.

= Dose .=-- will be used as graphite.

The exterior local conditions demand the use of zinc mainly within, but be very convenient in injections,
lotions or ointments, and in these cases, and is being used zinc oxide or the inside, you
can easily use the exterior zinc sulfate.

The outdoor use of zinc preparations requires great care, because a large dose, easily suppressed
his irritation that causes herpetic nature rebels in their changing forms both exterior and interior,
to the great detriment of patients who are believed cured of those rashes on the vulva, eyelids ...
and have only managed to transform this slight colds disease, chronic
Stomach and more uncomfortable and often serious.

These metastases, we say in passing, sometimes consist of dangerous repercussions, impact
is also frequently observed by the use of sulfurous mineral waters, whose action, in people herpes
is very remarkable, and yet rather neglected by Unfortunately. Deputies and the Academy of Jurisprudence
and Legislation

Plaza del Príncipe Don Alfonso, no. 8, Madrid.

ALVAREZ DE ARAUJO AND NECK. Homeopathic Medicine Directory Year .-- I. - Contents: 1. º prologue
the author, 2. No dates that recall key events in the life and scientific
work Hahnemann 3. º Madrid urban hygiene, 4.

No country life, compared with that of large populations under the hygienic point of view, 5.
No human longevity 6.

No notes for history of Homeopathy in Spain, 7. º some news about the state of Homeopathy outside Spain,
8. º aphoristic exposition of the doctrine of Hahnemann Medical 9. No objections commonly are
made to homeopathy, and its refutation, 10. º why the action of drugs homeopathic, and how physically
show, 11. º some concerns about the value characteristic symptoms
- by Boenninghaussen, 12.

No manual of materia medica, or be Summary of major pathogenic effects
of 45 drugs (new) with indications clinics.

Madrid, 1862. An atom in 8. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 19 provinces, postage paid.

Arostegui. Method abridged condom instruction and homeopathic treatment
Cholera-epidemic morbidity, Madrid, 1854.

A brochure at 8. º, 4 rs. in Madrid and 6 provinces postage paid.

Boenninghausen. The sides of the body, as also the affinities of drugs. Studies homeopathic.
Work translated from German into French by Ph. de Molinari, individual Societies homeopathic
medicine in Paris, Belgium, Holland, and other scientific societies. Poured French to Castilian, Dr.
JPH. Ant Alvarez-Peralta, individuals in society Hahnemannian Matritense, the Philanthropic Society
of Paris-magnetic, etc. 1857. At 8. º, 4 rs. Madrid and 5 provinces, postage paid.

CHARGE.

Homeopathic treatment, preventive and curative Cholera epidemic;
instruction popular guide that can serve in the absence of a doctor.

Translated from French by Dr. D. JMG Barcelona, ​​1854. A booklet in 18. No, a real in Madrid
and 2 in the provinces, postage paid.

CHEPMELL. New Manual of Homeopathy home, reduced to its true limits, with some instructions on diet
and regimen, translated from the fifth edition under the direction DJ Sanllehy. Barcelona,
​​1856. An atom in 8. º, 12 rs. in Madrid and 14 provinces, ex- note.

CROSERIO. Homeopathic Manual of Obstetrics - Relief that homeopathy can provide art of deliveries.
Havana, 1855. A volume of 12. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 18 provinces, postage paid.

Cruxent. Hustler homeopaths and Dr. D. Antonio Mendoza. Barcelona,
​​1853.

A brochure 8. º, 6 rs. in Madrid and 8 provinces, postage paid.

Cruxent.

Edifying and instructive letters Homeopathy, addressed to a person fair sex. Barcelona, ​​1857.
An atom in 4. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 20 provinces, postage paid.

Cruxent. Cholera, homeopathy and allopathy, or whether rules of hygiene, preventive and curative which may
be useful to consult before and after the anger has begun to voice their effects. Cuba, 1850.

Homeopathy
manual DICTIONARY, by DMPE Madrid, 1856.

A volume in 18. º, 10 rs. in Madrid and 12 provinces, postage paid.

ESPANET.

Methodical and practical treatise Materia Medica and therapeutics, based on the law of similar,
translated from French into Spanish for the teacher and homeopath D. Pio Hernandez Espeso.
Madrid, 1862. 2 volumes in 8. Number of about 500 pages each, 40 rs. Madrid and 46 provinces, postage
paid.

ESPANET.

Homeopathy basic studies and practical applications for use by physicians, clergy, religious
communities, families, etc., translated into Spanish under the direction
D. Juan Sanllehy.

Barcelona.

FLEURY. Homeopathy at the reach of everyone; translated from French into Castilian. Cadiz, 1840. An
atom in 4. º, 8 rs. in Madrid and 9 provinces, postage paid.

GARCIA LOPEZ. The poisoning or malaria .-- paludiana full Treaty intermittent fevers, senders
and continuous, the neuropathy, cachexia and other diseases that
occur by malarial miasma with medical geography of Spain in its relations
with these conditions: by D. Anastasio Garcia Lopez, former inmate
of the Central School, medical director of bathrooms minerals, etc.
Madrid, 1861.

An atom in 4. º, 24 rs. in Madrid and 28 provinces, postage paid.

GAUTHIER. Practical Treatise of Magnetism, or a summary of all the principles and procedures used
to this day, translated into Castilian by D. Isidoro Manuel de Villanueva.

Second edition. Madrid, 1856. A volume, 24 rs. in Madrid and 28 provinces, postage paid.

GUYARD.

Allopathic medicine, judged by the same doctors. Madrid, 1848. An atom in 4. º, 14 rs.

HAAS. Homeopathic Physician's Manual, or homeopathy to everyone. Havana, 1855. In 18. º, 26 rs. in Madrid
and 30 postage paid through the mail.

Hahnemann. Exposition of the homeopathic medical doctrine, ú Organon of the healing art. Third edition,
arranged at the French sixth, and augmented with life and portrait
of the author, published by Dr. D. Juan Sanllehy.

Barcelona. An atom in 4. º, 22 rs. in Madrid and 26 provinces postage paid.

HARTMANN.

Homeopathic Therapeutics of the Diseases of Children, translated
from German to French, with notes, by Dr. Leon Simon, Jr., and French
into Castilian under the direction D. Roman Fernandez del Rio, MD,
surgery, etc.. Madrid, 1853.

HARTMANN. Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia, fifth edition translated from the German. Barcelona, ​​1846.
An atom in 8. º, 6 rs. in Madrid and 7 provinces, postage paid.

HARTMANN.

Practical Treatise on homeopathic treatment of acute and chronic diseases; translated into
French German edition by AJL Jourdan, a member of the National Academy of Paris, and French into
Castilian by D. Pio Hernandez and Thick, homeopathic doctor, professor
homeopathy in the Spanish Institute, founder of the Institute homeopathic,
etc. Madrid, 1863.

2 volumes in 8. º marquilla .-- .-- SECOND EDITION (In press).

HEMPELL. Homoeopathic domestic medicine of the people. Havana, 1857. An atom in 8. º, 26 rs.
in Madrid and 30 provinces, postage paid.

HERING. Domestic homeopathy, or Guide to families so that their individuals can homoeopathically
themselves treated in most cases, and the urgent and serious provide
effective aid to the sick until the arrival of a homeopathic physician,
by Dr. C. Hering (Philadelphia).

Third Spanish edition, under the last edition published by the same author (which is quite
different from above), and to the fourth French edition; translated
into Spanish, reviewed, edited, annotated and considerably increased,
by D. Angel Alvarez de Araujo and Cuellar, honorary member of the
Homeopathic Medical Society of France etc. The enlarged part contains:
a brief exposition of the doctrines medical, general notions hygiene;
news on the climate of the West Indies and the Philippines, rules
of hygiene and acclimatization, to be observed in them by the Europeans;
foods they are allowed and forbidden being sick, treatment to be followed
in most dreaded diseases of those countries of the Americas in general,
Asia and the coast of Africa, and in some other cases of illness common
in certain provinces of Spain, such as suette, etc., etc., anthropology,
temperaments and medications that are appropriate and to the different
ages and sexes; prophylaxis of hereditary diseases.

Unique work of its kind. Madrid, 1861. A volume of 8. º, more than 700 pages, good printing and
paper eSCelente. It sells at 24 rs. in Madrid and 28 in provinces, postage paid.

HIRSCHEL. Homeopathic Physician's Guide to the bedside and repertoire of homeopathic therapy.
Translated from German into French by Dr. Leon Simon, son, and this in Spanish, by D. Silverio
Rodriguez Lopez. Madrid, 1859.

JAHR. New manual of homeopathic medicine. Part I: Manual of Materia Medica, or Summary of the main effects
of homeopathic medicines, with a display of the observations clinics. Part II: Code therapeutic or symptomatic,
or alphabetical tables the main symptoms of homeopathic medicines with clinical alerts, translated
from Castilian French to the last edition, by D. Silverio Rodriguez Lopez, homeopathic physician.
Second Spanish edition. Madrid, 1858. 4 volumes in 8. º, 80 rs. in Madrid and 96 provinces postage
paid.
 They had been walking down the avenue, and
she stopped because her eyes had been caught by a figure half sitting, half lying in the middle
of the road, a prostrate bicycle near it. It was the figure of a cheaply dressed young man,
who, as she looked, seemed to make an ineffectual effort to rise.

"Is that man ill?" she exclaimed. "I think he must be." They went towards him at once, and
when they reached him he lifted a dazed white face, down which a stream of blood was trickling
from a cut on his forehead. He was, in fact, very white indeed, and did not seem to know what
he was doing.

"I am afraid you are hurt," Betty said, and as she spoke the rest of the party joined them.
The young man vacantly smiled, and making an unconscious-looking pass across his face with
his hand, smeared the blood over his features painfully. Betty kneeled down, and drawing out
her handkerchief, lightly wiped the gruesome smears away. Lord Westholt saw what had happened,
having given a look at the bicycle.

"His chain broke as he was coming down the incline, and as he fell he got a nasty knock on
this stone," touching with his foot a rather large one, which had evidently fallen from some
cartload of building material.

The young man, still vacantly smiling, was fumbling at his breast pocket. He began to talk
incoherently in good, nasal New York, at the mere sound of which Lady Anstruthers made a little
yearning step forward.

"Superior any other," he muttered. "Tabulator spacer--marginal release key--call your 'tention--instantly--'justable--Delkoff--no
equal on market." And having found what he had fumbled for, he handed a card to Miss Vanderpoel
and sank unconscious on her breast.

"Let me support him, Miss Vanderpoel," said Westholt, starting forward.

"Never mind, thank you," said Betty. "If he has fainted I suppose he must be laid flat on the
ground. Will you please to read the card."

It was the card Mount Dunstan had read the day before.

J. BURRIDGE & SON,

DELKOFF TYPEWRITER CO.

BROADWAY, NEW YORK. G. SELDEN.

"He is probably G. Selden," said Westholt. "Travelling in the interests of his firm, poor chap.
The clue is not of much immediate use, however."

They were fortunately not far from the house, and Westholt went back quickly to summon servants
and send for the village doctor. The Dunholms were kindly sympathetic, and each of the party
lent a handkerchief to staunch the bleeding. Lord Dunholm helped Miss Vanderpoel to lay the
young man down carefully.

"I am afraid," he said; "I am really afraid his leg is broken. It was twisted under him. What
can be done with him?"

Miss Vanderpoel looked at her sister.

"Will you allow him to be carried to the house temporarily, Rosy?" she asked. "There is apparently
nothing else to be done."

"Yes, yes," said Lady Anstruthers. "How could one send him away, poor fellow! Let him be carried
to the house."

Miss Vanderpoel smiled into Lord Dunholm's much approving, elderly eyes.

"G. Selden is a compatriot," she said. "Perhaps he heard I was here and came to sell me a typewriter."

Lord Westholt returning with two footmen and a light mattress, G. Selden was carried with cautious
care to the house. The afternoon sun, breaking through the branches of the ancestral oaks,
kindly touched his keen-featured, white young face. Lord Dunholm and Lord Westholt each lent
a friendly hand, and Miss Vanderpoel, keeping near, once or twice wiped away an insistent trickle
of blood which showed itself from beneath the handkerchiefs. Lady Dunholm followed with Lady
Anstruthers.

Afterwards, during his convalescence, G. Selden frequently felt with regret that by his unconsciousness
of the dignity of his cortege at the moment he had missed feeling himself to be for once in
a position he would have designated as "out of sight" in the novelty of its importance. To
have beheld him, borne by nobles and liveried menials, accompanied by ladies of title, up the
avenue of an English park on his way to be cared for in baronial halls, would, he knew, have
added a joy to the final moments of his grandmother, which the consolations of religion could
scarcely have met equally in competition. Because its turn too tortuous,
used five or six days to climb it until San-Ignacio. Anything below the mouth of Tijamuchi
forms the Mamore a big bend, easy to avoid entering a marsh that occurs on the left bank, and
whose waters are almost always corrupted in some spot, causing intermittent fevers, while bearing
in some others, many magnificent plant groups called victory. A few miles away, the Mamore It is divided
into three branches, which are flooded islands, between which it travels with great difficulty,
encountering floating trees, uprooted by the currents. Somewhat later, is passed by in front of the ruined
mission of St. Peter, of which no traces have been more Some Cacahual. No longer have the banks
of the Mamore at this point, the savage beauty so remarkable about the confluence of the river
ITENE. Then appears in the east, at a distance quite large, but below the three arms of the Mamore,
the mouth of the river Aper, paragraph as a day of sailing of its tributary the river Saint-Joseph,
both rivers are navigable for ships of any burden, to the foot of the mountains. Ends on the same
side three or four miles below the river Yacuma, we will sail as above, and whose deep riverbed
is seventy to eighty yards wide, their margins, trimmed bushes, not contrast sharply with the
surrounding plains, which are quasi-nude boscage: three quarters of a mile later, we arrive at
the confluence of the river Rapulo, which not be narrower still offers the same facilities for
navigation, as time of the Jesuits he ascended to the mission of San-Borja. Finally, a little
above of the confluence, we present the mission of Santa Ana, located between these two rivers,
quarter of a mile distant from Yacuma.

SANTA ANA.
 It was a four-post
bed he was lying on, wasn't it? And his leg was bandaged and felt unmovable. The last thing
he remembered was going down an incline in a tree-bordered avenue. There was nothing more.
He had been all right then. Was this a four-post bed or was it not? Yes, it was. And was it
part of the furnishings of a swell bedroom--the kind of bedroom he had never been in before?
Tip top, in fact? He stared and tried to recall things--but could not, and in his bewilderment
exclaimed aloud.

"Well," he said, "if this ain't the limit! You may search ME!"

A respectable person in a white apron came to him from the other side of the room. It was Buttle's
wife, who had been hastily called in.

"Sh--sh," she said soothingly. Why, I'm not roistered, as a stupid, like
why had it not mourn without break in this house? Nah, you tell what the Me, Don Marcelo? Go,
go, another simple like me! Now you can see if you'll excuse me, even not be my entire fault.
 Perhaps he had got "bats in his belfry," and there was no use in talking.

At that moment, however, the door opened and a young lady entered. She was "a looker," G. Selden's
weakness did not interfere with his perceiving. "A looker, by gee!" She was dressed, as if
for going out, in softly tinted, exquisite things, and a large, strange hydrangea blue flower
under the brim of her hat rested on soft and full black hair. The black hair gave him a clue.
It was hair like that he had seen as Reuben S. Vanderpoel's daughter rode by when he stood
at the park gates at Mount Dunstan. "Bats in his belfry," of course.

"How is he?" she said to the nurse.

"He's been seeming comfortable all day, miss," the woman answered, "but he's light-headed yet.
He opened his eyes quite sensible looking a bit ago, but he spoke queer. He said something
was the limit, and that we might search him."

Betty approached the bedside to look at him, and meeting the disturbed inquiry in his uplifted
eyes, laughed, because, seeing that he was not delirious, she thought she understood. She had
not lived in New York without hearing its argot, and she realised that the exclamation which
had appeared delirium to Mrs. Buttle had probably indicated that the unexplainableness of the
situation in which G. Selden found himself struck him as reaching the limit of probability,
and that the most extended search of his person would fail to reveal any clue to satisfactory
explanation.

She bent over him, with her laugh still shining in her eyes.

"I hope you feel better. Can you tell me?" she said.

His voice was not strong, but his answer was that of a young man who knew what he was saying.

"If I'm not off my head, ma'am, I'm quite comfortable, thank you," he replied.

"I am glad to hear that," said Betty. "Don't be disturbed. Your mind is quite clear."

"All I want," said G. Selden impartially, "is just to know where I'm at, and how I blew in
here. It would help me to rest better."

"You met with an accident," the "looker" explained, still smiling with both lips and eyes.
"Your bicycle chain broke and you were thrown and hurt yourself. It happened in the avenue
in the park. We found you and brought you in. You are at Stornham Court, which belongs to Sir
Nigel Anstruthers. Lady Anstruthers is my sister. I am Miss Vanderpoel."

"Hully gee!" ejaculated G. Selden inevitably. "Hully GEE!" The splendour of the moment was
such that his brain whirled. As it was not yet in the physical condition to whirl with any
comfort, he found himself closing his eyes weakly.

"That's right," Miss Vanderpoel said. "Keep them closed. I must not talk to you until you are
stronger. Lie still and try not to think. The doctor says you are getting on very well. I will
come and see you again."

As the soft sweep of her dress reached the door he managed to open his eyes.

"Thank you, Miss Vanderpoel," he said. "Thank you, ma'am." And as his eyelids closed again
he murmured in luxurious peace: "Well, if that's her--she can have ME--and welcome!"

*****

She came to see him again each day--sometimes in a linen frock and garden hat, sometimes in
her soft tints and lace and flowers before or after her drive in the afternoon, and two or
three times in the evening, with lovely shoulders and wonderfully trailing draperies--looking
like the women he had caught far-off glimpses of on the rare occasion of his having indulged
himself in the highest and most remotely placed seat in the gallery at the opera, which inconvenience
he had borne not through any ardent desire to hear the music, but because he wanted to see
the show and get "a look-in" at the Four Hundred. Neither men nor the goats could reach them. Uncle Guster knew
what lay deeper in their black throats. Were hives hives they had centuries, natural shelters bees,
from the straits Ibiza and Vedra, came to take refuge in these caves inaccessible after fluttered
the fields on the island. He had been at one time of year to shine with such hydrants light wires
snaking down rocks. Honey was melted in the sun on the entrance dripping cave and useless outside
the tank.

Guster uncle pulled his fishing gear with a snort of satisfaction.

- And are eight! ...

Slope of a fishhook, and moved her legs coleaba a sort of dark gray
lobster.

Other similar lay inert in a basket next to the old.

- Uncle Guster,
do not you sing the Mass?

- If you allow ...

Jaime knew the habits
of old, his fondness for singing the songs of High Mass each time
she felt happy.

Withdrawn from long voyages, his pleasure was singing Sunday in the village church of San
Jose or San Antonio, then extending this fans all the happy moments of his life.

- Here I go ... here I come - said in a tone of superiority, as if
to excuse their companion the greatest pleasure.

Lifting his hand to his mouth, teeth extracted at once, keeping the belt. His face filled with
wrinkles around the mouth sunk, and began to sing the words of the priest and helper responses. His
voice trembling and children took on a serious sound slipping on the water extension and reproduced
by the echoes of the rocks. The goats Vedra occasionally responded to gentle bleating of surprise.
Jaime laughed at the vehemence of old, which, rolling his eyes, he carried a hand to hold the
heart volanti another rope. They stayed a long time, Febrer attentive to their rig, which not
perceive the slightest movement. All fishing was for the elderly. This put a bad humor, and
was suddenly disturbed by their songs.

- Enough, man Guster ... There is enough!

- You like it, right? - Said the old candidly -.

I also know other things, I know what the Captain Riquer: A happened, no stories. My father saw
him.

Jaime made a gesture of protest. No, nothing of Captain Riquer. He knew by heart the feat. In
three months they went out together into the sea, rare was the day
ended without the story of the event.

But Uncle Guster, with its unconscious senile, convinced of the importance of all his, had already
begun its history, and Jaime, his back, threw the body out of the rail, watching the deep
sea, refusing to hear again what he knew by heart.

Captain Antonio Riquer!

... A hero of the island of Ibiza, an ocean as big as Barceló ... But as was Barceló Ibiza Majorca
and the other, all the honors and degrees had been for him.

If there were any justice, should swallow the sea to the island proud stepmother Ibiza. Suddenly,
the old Spaniard was remembered Febrer, and remained in a confused silence for a moment.

- This is a thought - added apologetically -. There are good people everywhere. Vostro mercé
is one of them. But back to the master Riquer ...

He was master of a felucca armed Corsican, San Antonio, Ibiza manned, continuously galleys of
war with the Algerian Moors and the ships of England, the enemy of Spain. Riquer's name was
known throughout the Mediterranean. The incident occurred in 1806. On of the Trinity, in the morning,
was presented in view of the city of Ibiza a frigate English flag, tacking out of the reach of
the guns of the castle. Was Happiness The Italian ship Miguel Novelli, nicknamed "the Pope", a resident
of Gibraltar and the corsair English service. Came in search of Riquer, mock their own beards,
sailing arrogant view of their city. They played the alarm bells, drums sounded, the neighborhood rushed
to the ramparts of Ibiza and in the Marina district.

The San Antonio was fairings on land, but Riquer, with his family, threw it overboard. The
small cannon of the felucca had been dismantled, and hastily grabbed by ropes. All the Navy
wanted embarking, but the captain chose only fifty men, and heard mass with them in church San Telmo.
By going to hoist the sails came Riquer's father, an old sailor, and trampling the strength of
her son got into the ship.

San Antonio needed the long hours and expert moves to approach the frigate "Pope." The poor
man looked like an insect xebec beside the great ship, manned by
people more brave and adventurous collection in the spring of Gibraltar:
Maltese, English, Romans, Venetians, liorneses, Sardinian and raguseos.

The first volley of cannon from the ship kills five men felucca on the cover, including the father
of Riquer. He picks up the mangled corpse, stained with his blood, and runs to hide in the
hold. "They killed our father!" Riquer brothers groan. "What we are! - He cries harshly -. For
the bottles! The approach! "

The "bottles" terrible weapon of the corsairs Ibiza, bottles that
break on igneous enemy cover the fire with your fire, falling on the
ship the "Pope."

Arden's ropes, flame the draft, and as the flames leap demons Riquer and yours, gun in one hand,
the hatchet in the other approach. The roof drips blood, dead bodies roll into the sea with her
head smashed. When Papa found it hidden and half dead fear in a closet of his camera.

And Uncle Ventolera laughed with her child's laughter to remember this great victory grotesque de
Riquer. Then, to be conducted "the Pope" to the island, the people
of the city and the peasants flocked watched it as a rare animal.

This was the pirate terror of the Mediterranean! And they had found stuck between tables for
fear of Ibiza! He formed process to hang on the island of the Hanged, an island where the lighthouse
was now in the narrow of Freus, but Godoy gave orders to the number of prisoners exchanged
for Spanish.

His father had seen these great events: going to a page in the felucca de Riquer. Then there
fallen captive to the Algerians, being the last slaves, before they reached the French Algiers.
There he was in danger of dying a day that decimated all the killing an evil Moor, whose body
was found stuffed into a latrine. The guy remembered Guster also from the stories his father used
to the time when pirates and had reached Ibiza apprehended vessels to port, with Moorish and Moorish
captives. The prisoners they appeared to the 'clerk of prey "to witness the event, and were
required oath of truth "By Alaquivir, the Prophet and the Koran,
high arm and index finger, looking at his face the birth of the sun.

" Meanwhile, pirates hard Ibiza, to share the spoils aside a fund for the purchase of linen
bandages destined to become its future wounds, and left another part of the profits to "a priest
to celebrate Mass every day while they are out of the island.

"

The guy went from Riquer Ventolera other brave Corsicans patterns before him, but James, bothered by
his talk, in which lay a desire to impress on the island of Mallorca,
neighbor and enemy, finally impatient.

- What are the twelve, Grandpa!

... Come, no longer bite.

The old man looked at the sun, which exceeded the top of Vedra. It was not yet noon, but lacked
little. Then he looked at the sea, Mr. was right: no longer would sting the fish, but he was satisfied
of the day.

With his wiry arms pulled the rope, raising the small triangular sail the boat. It leaned over
the side, nodded a little on the spot, and suddenly began to cut the water with a gentle whisper.
They left the canal, leaving the Vedra and following the coast of Ibiza. Jaime at the helm, and
the old, keeping the fishing basket between his knees, was counting and fingering the pieces
with greedy delight.

They turned out and showed a new section of the coast. On a mound of red rocks, cut at intervals by
dark patches of scrub, a tower stood out wide and yellow a flattened cylinder, without holes
by the sea side of a window, black hole irregular contours. In the crown of the tower, a loophole
that had served in other times for a small canyon on the chopping cut its blue sky. On one side
of promontory bluff overlooking the sea, down the ground, covered with green trees low and hardwoods,
including white spot poked a meager settlement.

The boat was heading to the tower, and came close to a beach she desvióse immediate hitting his
head on the gravel bottom.

The old sailing subsided and approached the boat an isolated rock
in the middle of the beach, from which hung a string.

She tied the boat and then he jumped out and Jaime.

Did not want to dry the boat, thinking back the sea that afternoon, after eating: jig question
about long lines, to pick her up tomorrow next. "He was accompanied by Mr? ... Febrer shook his
head, and the old man fired it until the next night. I wake up from the beach when singing the Introit
still had stars in the sky. The sunrise was surprise at the Vedra. To see if the Mr tower out
soon!

He walked away the old inland slope of an arm carrying a basket of fish.

- Give you my hand to Margalida, Guster uncle, and soon bring me food.

The sailor answered with a shrug of the shoulders, without turning his head, and Jaime was moving
the edge of the beach to the tower. His feet, shoes sandals, trod the gravel, in which they
lost the last tremors of the sea. Among the blue stones could be seen clay fragments, pieces
of handles, concave surfaces of pottery, with traces of ancient motifs
that may have belonged to vessels bellied, small irregular spheres
of gray earth, which seemed to guess, through brackish water and nibbling,
faces reportedly faces tensed by the passage of time.

Offal were mysterious of storm days, fragments of the great secret of the sea who returned to
light after a concealment of thousands of years, the story confusing and legendary returned
by incoherent waves to the shores of these islands, shelter in ancient times the Phoenicians
and Carthaginians, Arabs and Norman. Guster uncle spoke of silver coins, thin as wafers, found
for boys to play in the coastline. His grandfather had told him as a child, the tradition of containing
treasures underwater caves, caves of the Saracens and Normans who had been walled with boulders,
disappearing after the secret cache.

Jaime began to climb up the rocky hillside path to the tower.

The tamarisk stood its rough and noisy dwarf pines, which seemed to feed off the salt dissolved
in the environment, sinking its roots into the rock. The wind of stormy days, removing the sand,
leaving bare its many tangled roots, and thin black snake in which often tangled Febrer feet.
The echo of the steps he responded in the bushes a fearful rumor snap runs and leaves, looking
to spend between kills and kills, with blind speed, a lump of gray
hairs with button-shaped tail.

The drain was running rabbits to lizards lazily stretched emerald the sun.

Along with these rumors reached the ears of a weak Jaime drumming and a man's voice Ibiza sang
a romance. Stopped from time to time as indecisive, repeating the same verses tenaciously until
he could pass new ones, throwing the end of each stanza, as usual the country, a strange clucking
like the cry of a peacock, a trill harsh and strident as the accompanying songs of the Arabs.

When Febrer was at the summit saw the musician sitting on a stone behind the tower and contemplating
the sea.

It was a atlot he had found Mallorquí Can sometimes, the home of his former Pep tenant. He was
leaning on a Ibiza thigh drum, small drum painted blue flowers and golden foliage. The left arm
rested on the instrument and face resting in one hand, almost hidden by the palm and fingers.
Armed with the right hand stick Slowly beat one of the patches, and so remained motionless,
reflective attitude to concentrated thought in his improvisation, considering the vast horizon
of sea through their fingers.

He was called the Sung, as all those who sing the new verses island dances and serenades. He
was a tall lad, peaky and narrow shoulders, a atlot had not yet reached the eighteen years.
Singing, coughed and heaved his fragile neck arrebolándosele face, a transparent white. His eyes
were large, the eyes of women, with the color tear rose very outgoing. Costume party dressed at all
times: his pants were velvet blue belt and the loop that served as
a red power tie, and over the last held a women's garment pañolito
wound to the neck, with embroidered edge ahead.

Two roses peeped over his ears, and under the brim of his felt, pushed back and trimmed with
a ribbon flowers, curly bangs escapábanse in the ripples of her hair, glossy ointment. Febrer,
seeing these ornaments almost feminine, her large eyes and pale complexion,
the anemic compared to a girl who idealizes the modern art.

But this virgin showed a disturbing package in the hem of her red
sash.

Undoubtedly it was a knife or pistol of manufacturing the blacksmiths of the island's constant
companion all atlot Ibiza.

When he saw the singer Jaime got up, leaving the drummer slope of
a strap attached the left arm, while her right hand, still holding
the stick, touched the wing of his hat.

- Bon tengui days!

Febrer, like any good Spaniard believed in the ferocity of Ibiza, however admired they look
to find them courteous on the roads. Killed each other, always matters love, but the stranger
was observed, with the same traditional qualms showing Arab hospitality
man who calls his tent.

The singing seemed embarrassed that Mr. Nadal had surprised him with
his home on land that was theirs.

Stammered excuses. Came to sit there because he liked to watch the sea from a height. He felt
better in the shadow of the tower, troubled him with no friends their presence and could freely
compose the verses of a romance for the next dance the people of San Antonio.

Jaime smiled at the shy singer excuses. Surely, his poems were dedicated some atlota. The boy nodded.
"Yes, sir ..." "Who was she?

- Flo d'enmetllé - said the poet.

"Almond Blossom !...» Nice name. And encouraged by the approval of the master, followed atlot
speaking. "Almond Blossom" was Margalida, but the daughter of Mallorquí Can Pep. It was he who
was given this name, seeing it as white and beautiful flowers when casting the almond frost finish
and come from the sea blows warm heralds of spring. All contour boys repeated the name, and
Margalida was not otherwise known.

The singer confessed to have some ability for the invention of nicknames
beautiful.

What he said was forever.

Febrer welcomed the words of the boy smiling.

Where had taken refuge in poetry? ... Then he asked if I worked, and atlot replied negatively.
They did not want their parents: City physician had seen a market day, advising his family that
avoided all fatigue. And he, satisfied with the council, spent the days of labor in the countryside,
in the shade of a tree, hearing the birds sing, watching the atlotas passing through the paths;
and when boiled in a trovo head again, sat on the shore of winding slowly, locking it in memory.

Jaime
took leave of him: he could continue his literary work.

But a few steps he stopped, turned his head to not hear the drum again. The singer retreating
downhill, afraid of upsetting the man with his music, and went in search of another lonely
place.

Febrer came to the tower. All that seemed far lower floor was a solid construction. The door was
at the level of the upper windows, so they could avoid the old guard surprise of pirates, using
for their inputs and outputs of a scale, that they withdrew inside
as night fell.

Jaime had been making a crude wooden ladder to get to your room, but do not ever retire. The
tower, built of sandstone, was slightly corroded on the outside by the sea wind. Many stones were
rolled out from their sockets, and these cavities were disguised as steps to climb the tower.

Ascended
to his room alone.

It was a circular piece, no more holes than the door and rear window openings in the tunnels
seemed almost excessive thickness walls. Here, on the inside, complained bitterly to the dazzling
whitewashed carefully Ibiza lime, which gives a smooth transparency
and milk to all buildings, communicating mansions cheerful aspect
to the squalid huts of the countryside. Only in the vault, cut through
a skylight revealing the old stairs to the platform, the soot was
of the fires that were lit in the past.

Mismatched tables and wooden
crosses that served to reinforce the door closed, window and skylight.
There was no glass in the tower. It was still summer, Febrer, undecided
about his fate, or rather indifferent, let the work of a permanent
installation later.

She looked beautiful and seductive this retreat,
despite his rudeness. Hand it felt addicted Pep and grace Margalida.
Jaime took notice how sharp the walls, cleaning of the three chairs
and a table of tables, furniture fregoteados by the daughter of his
former tenant. An hour with G. Selden, surrounded by
the atmosphere of Reuben S. Vanderpoel, would be a cheering thing," he said.

"It would," Mr. Penzance answered. "Let us go by all means. We should not, I suppose," with
keen delight, "be 'butting in' upon Lady Anstruthers too early?" He was quite enraptured with
his own aptness. "Like G. Selden, I should not like to 'butt in,'" he added.

The scent and warmth and glow of a glorious morning filled the hour. Combining themselves with
a certain normal human gaiety which surrounded the mere thought of G. Selden, they were good
things for Mount Dunstan. Life was strong and young in him, and he had laughed a big young
laugh, which had, perhaps tended to the waking in him of the feeling he was suddenly conscious
of--that a six-mile ride over a white, tree-dappled, sunlit road would be pleasant enough,
and, after all, if at the end of the gallop one came again upon that other in whom life was
strong and young, and bloomed on rose-cheek and was the far fire in the blue deeps of lovely
eyes, and the slim straightness of the fair body, why would it not be, in a way, all to the
good? He had thought of her on more than one day, and felt that he wanted to see her again.

"Let us go," he answered Penzance. "One can call on an invalid at any time. Lady Anstruthers
will forgive us."

In less than an hour's time they were on their way. They laughed and talked as they rode, their
horses' hoofs striking out a cheerful ringing accompaniment to their voices. There is nothing
more exhilarating than the hollow, regular ring and click-clack of good hoofs going well over
a fine old Roman road in the morning sunlight. They talked of the junior assistant salesman
and of Miss Vanderpoel. Penzance was much pleased by the prospect of seeing "this delightful
and unusual girl." He had heard stories of her, as had Lord Westholt. He knew of old Doby's
pipe, and of Mrs. Welden's respite from the Union, and though such incidents would seem mere
trifles to the dweller in great towns, he had himself lived and done his work long enough in
villages to know the village mind and the scale of proportions by which its gladness and sadness
were measured. He knew more of all this than Mount Dunstan could, since Mount Dunstan's existence
had isolated itself, from rather gloomy choice. But as he rode, Mount Dunstan knew that he
liked to hear these things. There was the suggestion of new life and new thought in them, and
such suggestion was good for any man--or woman, either--who had fallen into living in a dull,
narrow groove.

"It is the new life in her which strikes me," he said. "She has brought wealth with her, and
wealth is power to do the good or evil that grows in a man's soul; but she has brought something
more. She might have come here and brought all the sumptuousness of a fashionable young beauty,
who drove through the village and drew people to their windows, and made clodhoppers scratch
their heads and pull their forelocks, and children bob curtsies and stare. She might have come
and gone and left a mind-dazzling memory and nothing else. A few sovereigns tossed here and
there would have earned her a reputation--but, by gee! to quote Selden--she has begun LIVING
with them, as if her ancestors had done it for six hundred years. And what I see is that if
she had come without a penny in her pocket she would have done the same thing." He paused a
pondering moment, and then drew a sharp breath which was an exclamation in itself. "She's Life!"
he said. "She's Life itself! Good God! what a thing it is for a man or woman to be Life--instead
of a mass of tissue and muscle and nerve, dragged about by the mere mechanism of living!"

Penzance had listened seriously.

"What you say is very suggestive," he commented. "It strikes me as true, too. You have seen
something of her also, at least more than I have."

"I did not think these things when I saw her--though I suppose I felt them unconsciously. I
have reached this way of summing her up by processes of exclusion and inclusion. One hears
of her, as you know yourself, and one thinks her over."

"You have thought her over?"

"A lot," rather grumpily. "A beautiful female creature inevitably gives an unbeautiful male
creature something to think of--if he is not otherwise actively employed. I am not. She has
become a sort of dawning relief to my hopeless humours. Being a low and unworthy beast, I am
sometimes resentful enough of the unfairness of things. She has too much."

When they rode through Stornham village they saw signs of work already done and work still
in hand. There were no broken windows or palings or hanging wicket gates; cottage gardens had
been put in order, and there were evidences of such cheering touches as new bits of window
curtain and strong-looking young plants blooming between them. So many small, but necessary,
things had been done that the whole village wore the aspect of a place which had taken heart,
and was facing existence in a hopeful spirit. A year ago Mount Dunstan and his vicar riding
through it had been struck by its neglected and dispirited look. Ten. Sounded far Bark and
Jaime thought she recognized the dog Mallorquí Can. Maybe someone over betrayed approaching the
tower. It was about the enemy: it was possible to creep cautiously out of the path, between the branches
of the tamarisk.

He joined, requiring gun, looking for the gun in his belt. As soon as you hear a cry of defiance
or a tremor in the door window was put down, and turning the tower
picked up the enemy from behind.

He spent more time ... Nothing! Febrer wanted to watch the clock, but his hands would not obey
his will. No longer shone in the dark red tip of the cigar. His head had ended up falling on the
pillow, her eyes closed, he heard cries of challenge, shooting, cursing, but this was an abnormal
state, as if I lived in another world, where the insults and attacks not wake up sensitivity.
Then ... nothing: a dense shade, a deep and endless night, without slightest flash of vision
... I woke up a ray of sunlight passing through a crack in the window,
came to take in their eyes.

Daylight reborn with the whiteness of those walls that seemed to sweat during the night the
shadow and the other great mystery of centuries.

Jaime got up happy, and to undo the furniture barricade that blocked the gate, river somewhat
ashamed of his caution, considering almost cowardly. Can women Mallorquí he had been upset with
her fear.

Who would come to pick you up at the tower, knowing that was alert and receive the dead! Ferrer's
absence when he had presented in the forge and quiet of the night gave something to think
about Jaime. Would hurt the Verro? Do you have reached one of their bullets? ...

Spent the morning at sea. Guster uncle took him to the Vedra, praising the way and other merits
of his boat.

The repaired year after year, not staying in it or a sliver of its
original construction.

Fished in the lee of rocks until midafternoon. Returning to the tower, Febrer Chaplain saw
running down the beach waving aloft a white thing.
Before jumping to land when the boat sank his head into the gravel,
the boy yelled with the impatience of those who bring good news:

-
A letter, Chaume gift!

A letter! ... In one corner of the world,
the most extraordinary event that could disturb the ordinary life
was the arrival of a letter. Febrer stirred it in his hands, examining
it as something strange and distant. I
have seen Kedgers turn pale with anguish as he hung over a bed of transplanted things which
seemed to droop too long. They droop just at first, you know, and then they slowly lift their
heads, slowly, as if to listen to a Voice calling--calling. Once I sat for quite a long time
before a rose, watching it. When I saw it BEGIN to listen, I felt a little trembling pass over
my body. I seemed to be so strangely near to such a strange thing. It was Life--Life coming
back--in answer to what we cannot hear."

She had begun lightly, and then her voice had changed. It was very quiet at the end of her
speaking. Mount Dunstan simply repeated her last words.

"To what we cannot hear." 

Above all this talk in a separate article, because this already very long.

II

From the cute catarrinia to the elegant and beautiful Helena and from antropiscos alal who left
the Lemuria and spread in flocks and howling all over the world to the man who composed the Iliad
and those who understood and enjoyed reading it, so there is progress astonishing that, even if
thousands of centuries to perform, still seems unlikely and all but
impossible.

Perhaps it is all the wise dream ingenious engaged to prehistory.

Let us doubt the claims of this science brand. Without it. And affirm with the data supplied
recorded history and no dream, that neither beauty nor body strength and agility, or in courage
and fortitude, and clarity and elevation thoughts, today our lineage more noble and perfect types
that displayed and, as real people, make more than three thousand
years.

The man, therefore, has no any progress in its own being, for so long.

The opposite is what you can or think it can be said when considering the sublimity mission of
some individuals of our species, happiness and met with the transcendence charitable works, compared
to which nothing is equal in the day. The firms gave top individuals
and communities from very ancient times, not be discerned they may
have now or in the near future, something to overcome them.

For a few seconds, as they stood so, his look held her--their eyes involuntarily and strangely
held each other. Something softly glowing in the sunlight falling on them both, something raining
down in the song of a rising skylark trilling in the blue a field away, something in the warmed
incense of blossoms near them, was calling--calling in the Voice, though they did not know
they heard. Strangely, a splendid blush rose in a fair flood under her skin. She was conscious
of it, and felt a second's amazed impatience that she should colour like a schoolgirl suspecting
a compliment. He did not look at her as a man looks who has made a pretty speech. His eyes
met hers straight and thoughtfully, and he repeated his last words as he had before repeated hers.

"That YOU were Life--you!"

The bluebells under water were for the moment incredibly lovely. Her feeling about the blush
melted away as the blush itself had done.

"I am glad you said that!" she answered. "It was a beautiful thing to say. I have often thought
that I should like it to be true."

"It is true," he said.

Then the skylark, showering golden rain, swept down to earth and its nest in the meadow, and
they walked on.

She learned from him, as they walked together, and he also learned from her, in a manner which
built for them as they went from point to point, a certain degree of delicate intimacy, gradually,
during their ramble, tending to make discussion and question possible. Her intelligent and
broad interest in the work on the estate, her frank desire to acquire such practical information
as she lacked, aroused in himself an interest he had previously seen no reason that he should
feel. He realised that his outlook upon the unusual situation was being illuminated by an intelligence
at once brilliant and fine, while it was also full of nice shading. The situation, of course,
WAS unusual. A beautiful young sister-in-law appearing upon the dark horizon of a shamefully
ill-used estate, and restoring, with touches of a wand of gold, what a fellow who was a blackguard
should have set in order years ago. That Lady Anstruthers' money should have rescued her boy's
inheritance instead of being spent upon lavish viciousness went without saying. What Mount
Dunstan was most struck by was the perfect clearness, and its combination with a certain judicial
good breeding, in Miss Vanderpoel's view of the matter. She made no confidences, beautifully
candid as her manner was, but he saw that she clearly understood the thing she was doing, and
that if her sister had had no son she would not have done this, but something totally different.
He had an idea that Lady Anstruthers would have been swiftly and lightly swept back to New
York, and Sir Nigel left to his own devices, in which case Stornham Court and its village would
gradually have crumbled to decay. It was for Sir Ughtred Anstruthers the place was being restored.
She was quite clear on the matter of entail. He wondered at first--not unnaturally--how a girl
had learned certain things she had an obviously clear knowledge of. As they continued to converse
he learned. Reuben S. Vanderpoel was without doubt a man remarkable not only in the matter
of being the owner of vast wealth. The rising flood of his millions had borne him upon its
strange surface a thinking, not an unthinking being--in fact, a strong and fine intelligence.
His thousands of miles of yearly journeying in his sumptuous private car had been the means
of his accumulating not merely added gains, but ideas, points of view, emotions, a human outlook
worth counting as an asset. His daughter, when she had travelled with him, had seen and talked
with him of all he himself had seen. When she had not been his companion she had heard from
him afterwards all best worth hearing. She had become--without any special process--familiar
with the technicalities of huge business schemes, with law and commerce and political situations.
Even her childish interest in the world of enterprise and labour had been passionate. So she
had acquired--inevitably, while almost unconsciously--a remarkable education.

"If he had not been HIMSELF he might easily have grown tired of a little girl constantly wanting
to hear things--constantly asking questions," she said. "But he did not get tired. We invented
a special knock on the door of his private room. It said, 'May I come in, father?' If he was
busy he answered with one knock on his desk, and I went away. If he had time to talk he called
out, 'Come, Betty,' and I went to him. I used to sit upon the floor and lean against his knee.
He had a beautiful way of stroking my hair or my hand as he talked. He trusted me. He told
me of great things even before he had talked of them to men. He knew I would never speak of
what was said between us in his room. That was part of his trust. He said once that it was
a part of the evolution of race, that men had begun to expect of women what in past ages they
really only expected of each other."

Mount Dunstan hesitated before speaking.

"You mean--absolute faith--apart from affection?"

"Yes. The power to be quite silent, even when one is tempted to speak--if to speak might betray
what it is wiser to keep to one's self because it is another man's affair. The kind of thing
which is good faith among business men. It applies to small things as much as to large, and
to other things than business."

Mount Dunstan, recalling his own childhood and his own father, felt again the pressure of the
remote mental suggestion that she had had too much, a childhood and girlhood like this, the
affection and companionship of a man of large and ordered intelligence, of clear and judicial
outlook upon an immense area of life and experience. There was no cause for wonder that her
young womanhood was all it presented to himself, as well as to others. 

The application of the various preparations of mercury in syphilitic ulcers of all species,
requires distinctions that indication, although slightly. The early blight in first syphilis
or a second infection after a perfect cure, merely requires the use of live or soluble mercury
in a dose of 3 to 4 grams of each of the three crushing, fractions taken for daily morning and evening,
for twenty to thirty days. The red precipitate preparation is preferable when the former has
been ineffective for several causes, for example, people who have suffered repeated infection.
Cinnabar addresses the chancre simple and primitive, when the fund is raised on the edges
yours in the same cases happen to the previous advantage.

The red precipitate is generally agreed inflamed or indurated chancre. Have been used biyoduro
of mercury to the indurated chancre, insensitive, and the indolent bubo. More whatever you want
mercurial preparation chosen, it is necessary to exhaust its action, after administered the
appropriate dose, if you want to produce an alteration or delay improvement of the patient.
Indurated chancre treatment requires two to three weeks rather than the early blight, and equal
doses, but continued longer.

Chancroid, and primitive, indurated, if you have a character with a tendency to phagedenic destruction
tissues, or if he holds the urethra and swells to extend, claims the corrosive sublimate that
work best in people debilitated or cachectic, and when the pains are burning. Often confined
to combat malignancy, to simplify, then it is replaced with another preparation that best suits
the condition of blight modified by it. Ulcers secondary soft palate, the wings of the nose, scrofulous
ulcers of the cornea which extend rapidly and whose secretion is ichorous with photophobia, and general
conditions scrofulous with swelling, inflammation, tissue destruction and wasting, under perfectly
with corrosive sublimate and open buboes that are very enlarged and very painful.

The bubo simple, primitive, and orchitis blennorrhagic, in short, all accidents early syphilis,
in well-formed or unaccustomed to the disease, it is enough mercury with or without the simple
chancre. Calls for calomel blennorrhagic ophthalmia and sometimes corrosive sublimate. The consecutive
bubo required to precipitate canker red, as well as syphilitic changes of the mouth and tonsils
with concretions and ulcers, scrofulous ulcers and likewise starting with a blister.

Canker in the mouth with salivation, stomatitis in without any extraordinary accident, calomel
is indicated. Respect to the thrush, is convenient to reveal that those of mercury are deep
and thin, with gray background and a dark red mucosa around them: this color is pale phosphoric
acid canker, and red in the mezereum. Hydrochloric acid canker, charcoal and quinine are more atonic
and ensuing after a gangrenous affection, or are themselves gangrenous.

Although the red precipitate is useful in syphilitic tubercles of the skin, the syphilids impetiginosa,
whose crusts are covered with small ulcers, the mercury is biyoduro preferable in the ensuing
tuberculous indurations after healing of indurated chancres. These concretions hide the danger
of a chancre phagedenic, and when actually opened, they should call the attention of the physician.
In this case, the mercury biyoduro is an effective way. Also what is blennorrhagic epididymitis,
orchitis in subacute with or without persistence of flow in the scrotum syphilid: this condition
is characterized by concretions esfolía whose surface and secretes a serum to which replace movies
that break off and leave the skin red itchy meat.

The mercury biyoduro also plays in ulcers that replace concretions that we talked, even when it
extends and spreads to the skin abscesses in the claim year also this medicine. These disclosures
often leave behind them an induration TB cell tissue located between the skin and fascia superficialis,
induration frequently renewing the abscess. Calomel cure the abscess, and mercury biyoduro
induration. This medicine is a resource eSCelente the uterus to decrease myocardial of this body,
this property is healing, not just the clinical facts, but their physiological effects. It has
therefore a very useful action in cases of this kind which are not to syphilis.

The lowest dose of calomel expose to salivation and stomatitis to
mercury, for which reason the physician should be sparing in their
use, even in doses them extremely attenuated; should reserve for conditions
that heals better than any other salt mercurial, when These conditions
are, for example, sore throat, mouth, pain osteócopos, etc .....

In
view of the esponse, mercury live is rarely the best way in the secondary
accidents, much less in tertiary syphilis, and is therefore always
preferable mercurial preparations, at least in the beginning of a
recent infection, has been used conveniently mercury.

It must be confessed that the illegal treatments, remedies secrets or misapplied, and neglect
of certain patients to the doctor frequently put in pregnancy to assess further means have been
used and even the nature of evil that can be mercurial and syphilitic judge him, and vice-versa.
This is precisely what which is one of the difficulties presented
to cure accidents more or less remote such as blemishes, pimples,
pustules, tuberculosis, thrush indurated, excoriation of the mucous,
mucous patches, tubers, caries, periostitis, exhausts, osteócopos
pain, tumors gummy, ozena syphilis, and other accidents even more
remote, whose cure by means antisyphilitic expresses or discover the
source, such as: certain gastritis, migraines and headaches, rheumatic
pain .....

More than those who want the difficulties of these treatments
may be resorted to drugs which, like lime sulfur, acid whipped and
mezereum yours, play in the transformation of syphilis throughout
the body.

Well soon returned to say something about this when talking about diathesis, but before boarding the
examination of syphilitic affections of the skin, indicate azoato mercury that is best described
in syphilitic vegetations soft, bleeding, less painful and flat, located in the throat, anus and
tongue.

In this symptom, as in any other of syphilis, it is important to note that The doctor instructed
carefully avoids any cauterization and excision all until implementation medicinal ointments
and lotions irritants. The reason for this is that the symptoms, canker and vegetation, internal virus
expression, which indicates the strength outward manifestation or languor, regularity or aberration,
it is important to leave remaining to recognize the effect of treatment on changes to suffer. This
practice is therefore more rational and easier, and unfortunately some sick leave, which, thanks
to his impatience, but cut a escrescencia believe will reappear many times as is started, to wait
some days to see them shrivel, dry up and disappear without pain
and without a trace, the effective influence of mercury, acid and
whipped administered within yours.

= D = skin ailments .-- It is clear that the skin conditions known by the name of syphilid and
clearly described in the books, are easy to diagnose and to submit unambiguous characters. Mercury
on the other hand is not only effective in skin diseases from a secondary manifestation of syphilis,
but also it is in several herpetic and scrofulous affections.

The syphilids can take all forms of skin diseases. Manifest sometimes simultaneously with early
symptoms, although most are checked after and even with months and years apart. There are circumstances
in which these eruptions are accompanied febrile movement and night pain in the bones and joints,
almost always alternating with other symptoms syphilis. Genitals, the margin of the anus, face,
forehead, back, and abdomen are preference points. Whatever you want the form, always have a
particular color of red or yellow violet dirty is designated with the name of hepatic copper,
and generally exhibit a marked tendency to ulceration lining the syphilitic nature.

Syphilitic pustules, and in particular the corona veneris, preferably yours require acid and
whipped, after living or cinnabar mercury.

The scales and all esfoliaciones, even the palms of the hands, distinctive coppery appearance,
claiming the sublimate corrosive, cinnabar, and the more, the clematis, the club moss, the mezereum.
In the tubers, biyoduro effective the mercury and the carbonate of lime. The sores disappear
with the Ethiopian mineral, azoato mercury, silica, and yours Staphysagria when crust over
and placed on the genitals.

In all forms of syphilids are more mercurial salts indicated that mercury vivo. Cinnabar generally
corresponds more closely to the vesicular eruptions, to the vesicles isolated or pleasure on red
background, in the ruddy swellings, erysipelatous the cheeks and eyelids, mucous stains, in
the nasal mucosa fluxions with excess of secretion, which extends to the lip Fluxion blisters,
and itching is violent. Calomel is most proper for abscesses in the year, the biyoduro mercury
in the indurations or concretions, and tubers, the mercuric chloride in refractory cases, the
cachectic state, corrosive ulceration, the vague rubicundeces extensive, the azoato of mercury in
the intertrigo, slag, living or soluble mercury in the non-syphilitic
arsenic before it and other drugs covered by that eruption, such as
graphite, the causticum and sumac, alternating with sulfur, is a powerful
means of resolution in induration of the skin and cellular tissue.

Even in conditions that are not reputable as syphilis, mercury and their preparations have
superior efficacy to the sepia and charcoal, in psoriasis, oil, graphite, sea ​​salt, carbonate
of lime and oak, in eczema, the mercurial are useful in the treatment of ecthyma and crevices, to
a lesser degree than zinc, yours and throbbing, but bearing in mind that the club moss, graphite,
zinc and several other medications are indicated in these species
of skin lesions.

Mercury is often preferable to arsenic and belladonna in lupus, and enters as an essential element
in the treatment of elephantiasis and inflammation alba dolens. Some claim ringworm especially
after use of sulfur and carbonate of lime, the same is true of almost all diseases herpes in people
lymphatic and scrofulous or a weak constitution.

= E. = serous ailments, cachectic, anemic and scrofulous .-- victoriously are treated by mercury
many diseases, whether the expression of scrofulous cachexia, syphilitic and mercurial, and contribute
to developing the state of them. Regardless of the conditions as indicated already, we can mention:
1. º serous collections from the edema and swelling integuments of looking weak and pale skin and dirty
to the ascites. In all these cases, mercury can play in union with belladonna, arsenic and sulfur;
hydrocele in scrofulous, silica is very similar to mercury. Arthritic swellings, swollen and
pale, with internal pains and gastrose, mercury and often require
the machine.

2. º asthenic flows, stroke or mucous gland hypersecretion or trend to the destruction of tissues.
The subject of these flows and these secretions is wrong developed, the suppuration is ichorous
and bad character; the reverse is true in ulcers of recent syphilis when the vegetative sphere is not
yet altered. In all cases hypersecretion fiber is sluggish, fatigue and nervous breakdown of
liquids night sweats, diarrhea colliquative, lientería, otorrhea, leukorrhea, coryza with ozena,
slight swelling of the nose and periosteum, salivation, plenty of suppuration sanious ulcerated
surfaces and soft. Phosphorus, sulfur, quinine and calcium carbonate are sometimes as useful as mercury.

3.
º The prickly heat, the sweat of the feet, alopecia, falling or deformity
of the nails, sterility, seminal losses, albuminuria and a host of
conditions due to a cacoquimia, or to a functional perversion against
a background of fatigue and lack of plasticity.

4. º The conditions characterized by muscular tremor nervous asthenia, great weakness; the paralysis
that develop slowly, partial or general, with serosal infiltration to varying degrees, discoloration
of tissues, lack of natural heat, hobbies automatic chorea, and even the same epilepsy.

Mercury, in short, is one of the main drugs of scrofula, should not only in myocardial nodes and
subacute inflammations of the mucous membranes, but also in advanced
stage, if night sweats, colliquative flows, rapid emaciation, glands
infarcted or ulcerated, crusted rashes or itching, especially on the
scalp, dirty urine and abundant, easy and lienteric depositions, tympanitis,
rickets.

In these cases, the lower dose are the most effective, since their similarity leads to the
necessity attenuation of its extremity.

Electively mercury working in the lymphatic system and the plastic strength, it preferably in
the habitus leucoflegmásico and swelling of the skin, easy to colds and to sweat, but with one
condition, that the cases that require mercury, the but are separated from these organizational
arrangements, the more far from this drug and approach to their sales, from red to precipitate
mercuric chloride, and from the sulfur mercury to their iodides and azoatos. Mercury is also
desirable because of its effects on the alteration of nutrition in
the state venosidad and serous, the retardation of intellectual development
and vegetative physical weakness, but must resort to a its salts if
they join the dryness of the skin or surfaces and phenomena exhalants
of blood erethism.

Mercury also awakens medical receptivity when vegetative life is more particularly affected, and the plastic
fatigue and interference the innervation is opposed to any reaction.

The indications of mercury in the conditions just listed briefly, are characterized by some symptoms
that indicate their profound influence on the body as the following to complete the picture of his
action: cramps, spasms, great fatigue, great weakness, malaise, body and spirit, drowsiness, heartburn,
blood shaking member, heart lymph, mucosal swelling passive hemorrhage,
asthenic rubicundeces skin, passive flow, secretions, excessive, poorly
developed pus, phagedenic ulcers, edema, serous effusions, tissue
discoloration, yellowing of the skin, sweating easy excitability of
all organs, marasmus, aggravation of symptoms at night and the warmth
of bed, great sensitivity, and aggravation of the suffering to cold
air.

Whenever in the treatment of syphilis observe a set of symptoms such as: decay wet fungal ulcers, flabby,
asthenic, dissolution of blood, hesitation erosion of the teeth and gums, bad mouth, salivation,
tremors, fever Hectic, it is very likely to be a mercurial cachexia. Since then proceed to
provide an antidote, of which we say: 1. No sulfur, which is what corresponds best to symptoms of
fever erethism slow and suffering in the midst of the most serious.

Sulphurous mineral water held in this regard with great efficiency, not by neutralizing mercury
that may exist in the economy, but to combat the effects of medication and operating changes
in the vitality and tissues, especially in the mercury drop, joint swellings isolated incipient
paralysis tremors, flegmorragias. Mercury is to turn one of the best antidotes to the dynamic
effects of sulfur. The lime sulfur is also indicated in the mercurial cachexia, asthenia nervosa,
caries, scrofulous complications.

2. º whipped acid, at the lower dose, but rather appropriate, neutralizes the effects of mercury
and cure syphilitic aggravated or sustained by this medicine, as are adenoids and genital ulcers,
canker sores and corrosive or limp, myocardial inguinal glands, throat ulcers, gout military
violet spots on the skin or coppery looking dirty, otorrhea, ophthalmia, the ozena, cracks, herpes
hands, suspicious, livid pustules in the front and back, the excess
sensitivity of the scalp, alopecia.

3. No Gold whipped acid can replace a large number of these cases, but combat better yet cavities
of the bones of the skull, nose and face, the destruction of the soft palate, osteócopos pains, accidents
drop abnormal dyspepsia, palpitations, hydrothorax incipient jaundice and disorders of liver.

4.
º The machine, when it is rather the body and not a particular organ concerned, which radical
forces are altered, for example, in cachexia without special injury in slow fever with belly
and tympanitis decomposition in passive hemorrhages and edema of various organs. The dynamic
action of the machine is here as indicated, not dose need more than to revive the weak forces, turn the
tone to the fiber, excite vitality.

Quinine sulfate is sometimes a more appropriate preparation of quinine. Higher doses are preferable
in certain febrile effects of mercury and that take a type intermittent, or the latent form
of the fever, with a sensation of great laceration on the head or in any other part.

5. No other antidote Iodine is well indicated in mercurial salivation, in myocardial lymph and
ganglion developed by the influence of mercury, the silica is adapted to decay, to degenerate ulcers
that have resisted whipped acid, gold .... Opium is indicated in cases of prostration and to
assist or supplement the actions of the machine. The mezereum, the clematis and phosphoric
acid agree when the mercury has developed rashes; yours, the lycopodium, when vegetation is supported
by dose mercury, silver and other drugs as indicated, if the mercury vapor emissions or accidents have
been identified lame.

In the mercurial rebel conditions to the most appropriate medication,
there is sometimes more than the mercury that can heal itself.

A crowd of curious facts have been established for this and other drugs that infinitesimal
doses are more adequate to dissipate diathesis and dynamic effects of exaggerated dose.

= Dose .=-- exceding If it is important not the appropriate dose, to avoid the effects medicine so
often complicate the disease and affect unfavorably in their treatment, mercury is more than any
other drug.
 Lord Dunholm's world had been a large one, and
he had acquired experience tending to the development of the most perfect methods. If G. Selden
had chanced to be the magnet which had decided his course this special afternoon, Miss Vanderpoel
it was who had stirred in him sufficient interest in Mount Dunstan to cause him to use the
best of these methods when he found himself face to face with him.

He beautifully eliminated the years, he eliminated all but the facts that the young man's father
and himself had been acquaintances in youth, that he remembered Mount Dunstan himself as a
child, that he had heard with interest of his visit to America. Whatsoever the young man felt,
he made no sign which presented obstacles. He accepted the eliminations with outward composure.
He was a powerful-looking fellow, with a fine way of carrying his shoulders, and an eye which
might be able to light savagely, but just now, at least, he showed nothing of the sulkiness
he was accused of.

Lord Dunholm progressed admirably with him. He soon found that he need not be upon any strain
with regard to the eliminations. The man himself could eliminate, which was an assistance.

They talked together when they turned to follow the others to the retreat of G. Selden.

"Have you bought a Delkoff?" Lord Dunholm inquired.

"If I could have afforded it, I should have bought one."

"I think that we have come here with the intention of buying three. We did not know we required
them until Miss Vanderpoel recited half a page of the catalogue to us."

"Three will mean a 'rake off' of fifteen dollars to G. Selden," said Mount Dunstan. It was,
he saw, necessary that he should explain the meaning of a "rake off," and he did so to his
companion's entertainment.

The afternoon was a satisfactory one. They were all kind to G. Selden, and he on his part was
an aid to them. In his innocence he steered three of them, at least, through narrow places
into an open sea of easy intercourse. This was a good beginning. The junior assistant was recovering
rapidly, and looked remarkably well. The doctor had told him that he might try to use his leg.
The inside cabin of the cheap Liner and "little old New York" were looming up before him. But
what luck he had had, and what a holiday! It had been enough to set a fellow up for ten years'
work. It would set up the boys merely to be told about it. He didn't know what HE had ever
done to deserve such luck as had happened to him. For the rest of his life he would he waving
the Union Jack alongside of the Stars and Stripes.

Mr. Penzance it was who suggested that he should try the strength of the leg now.

"Yes," Mount Dunstan said. "Let me help you."

As he rose to go to him, Westholt good-naturedly got up also. They took their places at either
side of his invalid chair and assisted him to rise and stand on his feet.

"It's all right, gentlemen. It's all right," he called out with a delighted flush, when he
found himself upright. "I believe I could stand alone. Thank you. Thank you."

He was able, leaning on Mount Dunstan's arm, to take a few steps. Evidently, in a short time,
he would find himself no longer disabled.

Mr. Penzance had invited him to spend a week at the vicarage. He was to do this as soon as
he could comfortably drive from the one place to the other. After receiving the invitation
he had sent secretly to London for one of the Delkoffs he had brought with him from America
as a specimen. He cherished in private a plan of gently entertaining his host by teaching him
to use the machine. The vicar would thus be prepared for that future in which surely a Delkoff
must in some way fall into his hands. Indeed, Fortune having at length cast an eye on himself,
might chance to favour him further, and in time he might be able to send a "high-class machine"
as a grateful gift to the vicarage. Perhaps Mr. Penzance would accept it because he would understand
what it meant of feeling and appreciation.

During the afternoon Lord Dunholm managed to talk a good deal with Mount Dunstan. There was
no air of intention in his manner, nevertheless intention was concealed beneath its courteous
amiability. He wanted to get at the man. Before they parted he felt he had, perhaps, learned
things opening up new points of view.

. . . . . One of the hills is in the eastern margin the
river, and four or five are in the western side.

Another notable Paraguay narrowness is below the three hills that are to the the west, called
the Three Brothers, at the foot of another high hill, called Bread Sugar, about twelve leagues
below the Three Brothers, and is the highest of all who found from the Assumption to Tacuarí. Is
on the eastern margin, and from there continued a ridge towards the east. There in the west, in
front of Pan de Azucar, another small hill and some distance to the part of the north-west,
is another not very big. The narrow aforesaid, and the Sugar Loaf,
are at 21 degrees 17 minutes.

It is then, down the Paraguay, the river mouth Tepotí at 21 degrees 45 minutes. Then in front
of an island, or something above, is the mouth of the river currents, so called by the mainstream
that it brings. This river has its origin next to the fountain of Guatimí that Paraná enters
the big jump. The river flows into the Paraguay Currents in 22 degrees and 2 minutes. Two or three
miles away is the south-west the hill Galvan, it is only in the western side. This lower part
of this a bunch of great mountains. At the south side of the river are too many hills and
narrow with strong currents, with peñasquería the sides of the river, and called this step Itapucú-wolf.
Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes.

Below is a tip that is another narrow ridge, and ends this rock tip cut off, and lies about eight
miles from the Itapucú-wolf.

Sign in below, on the eastern margin, the Rio Guarambaré in 23 degrees 8 minutes, and in front
of the mouth is an island. For the 23 degrees and 21 minutes are scattered stones middle of
the river, so in this stage should navigate with caution. Ipan river-wolf flows into the Paraguay,
at latitude 23 degrees 28 minutes. His mouth is facing a island. Download this river of yerba
mate that are north of Curuguatí, and has its origin near the Guatimí. In the 23 degrees 51 minutes
between the Paraguay, on the western margin, the Cookers river, and
a short distance below the same band enters the Verde River.

Al front of these two rivers there are four islands. Lower in the Banda Oriental enters mini
Ipan in 21 degrees and 2 minutes.
Ipan below the mini, in 24 degrees and 4 minutes, we found that looked
straight needle to the north, and can not be attributed to other causes
to the proximity of some iron ore stone or magnet, of which there
is enough in the jurisdiction of Paraguay. They've not had to wait for rain, for we've given it to 'em from watering cans, and, thank
goodness, the season's been kind to 'em."

Betty, descending the terrace steps, wandered down the paths between the flower beds, glancing
about her as she went. The air of neglect and desolation had been swept away. Buttle and Tim
Soames had been given as many privileges as Kedgers. The chief points impressed upon them had
been that the work must be done, not only thoroughly, but quickly. As many additional workmen
as they required, as much solid material as they needed, but there must be a despatch which
at first it staggered them to contemplate. They had not known such methods before. They had
been accustomed to work under money limitation throughout their lives, and, when work must
be done with insufficient aid, it must be done slowly. Economy had been the chief factor in
all calculations, speed had not entered into them, so leisureliness had become a fixed habit.
But it seemed American to sweep leisureliness away into space with a free gesture.

"It must be done QUICKLY," Miss Vanderpoel had said. "If ten men cannot do it quickly enough,
you must have twenty--or as many more as are needed. It is time which must be saved just now."

Time more than money, it appeared. Buttle's experience had been that you might take time, if
you did not charge for it. When time began to mean money, that was a different matter. If you
did work by the job, you might drive in a few nails, loiter, and return without haste; if you
worked by the hour, your absence would be inquired into. In the present case no one could loiter.
That was realised early. The tall girl, with the deep straight look at you, made you realise
that without spoken words. She expected energy something like her own. She was a new force
and spurred them. No man knew how it was done, but, when she appeared among them--even in the
afternoon--"lookin' that womany," holding up her thin dress over lace petticoats, the like
of which had not been seen before, she looked on with just the same straight, expecting eyes.
They did not seem to doubt in the least that she would find that great advance had been made.

So advance had been made, and work accomplished. As Betty walked from one place to another
she saw the signs of it with gratification. The place was not the one she had come to a few
months ago. Hothouses, outbuildings, stables were in repair. Work was still being done in different
places. In the house itself carpenters or decorators were enclosed in some rooms, and at their
business, but exterior order prevailed. In the courtyard stablemen were at work, and her own
groom came forward touching his forehead. She paid a visit to the horses. They were fine creatures,
and, when she entered their stalls, made room for her and whinnied gently, in well-founded
expectation of sugar and bread which were kept in a cupboard awaiting her visits. She smoothed
velvet noses and patted satin sides, talking to Mason a little before she went her way.

Then she strolled into the park. The park was always a pleasure. She was in a thoughtful mood,
and the soft green shadowed silence lured her. The summer wind hus-s-shed the branches as it
lightly waved them, the brown earth of the avenue was sun-dappled, there were bird notes and
calls to be heard here and there and everywhere, if one only arrested one's attention a moment
to listen. And she was in a listening and dreaming mood--one of the moods in which bird, leaf,
and wind, sun, shade, and scent of growing things have part.

And yet her thoughts were of mundane things.

It was on this avenue that G. Selden had met with his accident. He was still at Dunstan vicarage,
and yesterday Mount Dunstan, in calling, had told them that Mr. Penzance was applying himself
with delighted interest to a study of the manipulation of the Delkoff.

The thought of Mount Dunstan brought with it the thought of her father. This was because there
was frequently in her mind a connection between the two. How would the man of schemes, of wealth,
and power almost unbounded, regard the man born with a load about his neck--chained to earth
by it, standing in the midst of his hungering and thirsting possessions, his hands empty of
what would feed them and restore their strength? Would he see any solution of the problem?
She could imagine his looking at the situation through his gaze at the man, and considering
both in his summing up.

"Circumstances and the man," she had heard him say. "But always the man first."

Being no visionary, he did not underestimate the power of circumstance. This Betty had learned
from him. And what could practically be done with circumstance such as this? The question had
begun to recur to her. What could she herself have done in the care of Rosy and Stornham, if
chance had not placed in her hand the strongest lever? What she had accomplished had been easy--easy.
All that had been required had been the qualities which control of the lever might itself tend
to create in one. Given--by mere chance again--imagination and initiative, the moving of the
lever did the rest. If chance had not been on one's side, what then? And where was this man's
chance? She had said to Rosy, in speaking of the wealth of America, "Sometimes one is tired
of it." And Rosy had reminded her that there were those who were not tired of it, who could
bear some of the burden of it, if it might be laid on their own shoulders. The great beautiful,
blind-faced house, awaiting its slow doom in the midst of its lonely unfed lands--what could
save it, and all it represented of race and name, and the stately history of men, but the power
one professed to call base and sordid--mere money? She felt a sudden impatience at herself
for having said she was tired of it. That was a folly which took upon itself the aspect of
an affectation.

And, if a man could not earn money--or go forth to rob richer neighbours of it as in the good
old marauding days--or accept it if it were offered to him as a gift--what could he do? Nothing.
If he had been born a village labourer, he could have earned by the work of his hands enough
to keep his cottage roof over him, and have held up his head among his fellows. But for such
as himself there was no mere labour which would avail. He had not that rough honest resource.
Only the decent living and orderly management of the generations behind him would have left
to him fairly his own chance to hold with dignity the place in the world into which Fate had
thrust him at the outset--a blind, newborn thing of whom no permission had been asked.

"If I broke stones upon the highway for twelve hours a day, I might earn two shillings," he
had said to Betty, on the previous day. "I could break stones well," holding out a big arm,
"but fourteen shillings a week will do no more than buy bread and bacon for a stonebreaker."

He was ordinarily rather silent and stiff in his conversational attitude towards his own affairs.
Betty sometimes wondered how she herself knew so much about them--how it happened that her
thoughts so often dwelt upon them. The explanation she had once made to herself had been half
irony, half serious reflection.

"It is a result of the first Reuben Vanderpoel. It is because I am of the fighting commercial
stock, and, when I see a business problem, I cannot leave it alone, even when it is no affair
of mine."

As an exposition of the type of the commercial fighting-stock she presented, as she paused
beneath overshadowing trees, an aspect beautifully suggesting a far different thing.

She stood--all white from slim shoe to tilted parasol,--and either the result of her inspection
of the work done by her order, or a combination of her summer-day mood with her feeling for
the problem, had given her a special radiance. Went to the kitchen, huge dependence which
were prepared at one time the famous banquets of the Febrer, surrounded by parasites and generous
to all the friends who came to the island. Antonia Madò seemed smaller in lengthy terms this
room, next to the great fireplace of the home, which could admit a huge pile of logs, roasting
at a time several pieces. Banks could stoves serve an entire community. The cold shower of
this unit demonstrated its lack of use. On the walls, big hooks exposed the absence of copper
vessels that had once been splendid glory of the convent kitchen. The old servant was her
cooking in a small stove next to the trough in which kneading bread.

Jaime gave a shout out to Madò Antonia to tell her presence, and introduced into a room immediately,
the small dining room that had used the last Febrer, have come down in Fortunately, avoiding
the great hall where they held the ancient banquets.

Was visible here too the pace of poverty. The long table covered with a rubber Hallab cracked,
of dubious whiteness. The cupboards were almost empty. The ancient china, the break, was replaced
by a few dishes and jugs of gross production. Two open windows in the background framed pieces
restless sea of ​​blue, throbbing low the fire of the sun. In its leisurely balanceábanse rectangles
branches of a palm. Marcábanse beyond the horizon the white wings of a schooner slowly coming towards
Palma, like a tired gull.

Antonia Madò entered, leaving on the table a bowl of steaming coffee and a big slice Cover pan with
lard.

Jaime attacked the breakfast with avidity, and chewing the bread made a distaste. Madò assented
with a nod, breaking to speak their language Mallorca.

- Very hard, right?

... That bread could not be compared with the rolls I ate Mr. in the Casino, but the blame was
not hers. Thought to have amassed the day before, but had no meal and was waiting for the peasant
to bring his Son Febrer tribute. The ungrateful people and forgetful!

...

The old servant insisted on his contempt for the peasant farmer are Febrer, property that Fortune
was the last house. Everything was the rustic to the benevolence of the family, and now, in difficult
moments, he forgot his good masters.

Jaime continued chewing, with the thought put into are Febrer. Nor what was his, not But bear
it as owner. The property, located in the center of the island - the best farm inherited from
their parents, which bore the name of the family - it was mortgaged and was to lose a moment's
notice. Income, low and short, according to traditional practices, ministered unto him to pay
only a tiny portion of the interest on loans, fueling the remaining amount of the debt. Were the
aldehalas, payments in kind that the peasant had him, according to ancient customs, and they
kept him and Antonia Madò, lost in the huge house that had been made to accommodate a tribe. At Christmas
and Easter Easter lambs received a couple accompanied by a dozen poultry; in the autumn two
well-fattened pigs for slaughter, and every month, and a host eggs flour, more than the fruits
of the season. With these aldehalas, some consumed at home and other sold by the servant, were
holding Madò Jaime and Antonia in the solitude of chateau, insulated from public curiosity, like
two lost shipwrecked on an island.

Offerings in kind is increasingly delayed. The peasant, with that selfishness rustic likely to
flee misfortune, they were also lazy to avoid fulfilling their obligations. I knew the primogeniture
was not the real master of Son Febrer, and often, to reach the city its present, twisted way,
going to place them in homes from creditors, fearful characters they wanted to be propitious.

Jaime looked sadly at the servant, who stood erect before him. It was an old payesa he still
had the dress of his people, dark jacket with a double row of buttons on the sleeves; rameada
clear skirt and covering his head the rebocillo, white veil attached
to the neck and chest, below which escaped the thick braid - wearing
fake and very black - crowned by long velvet ribbons.

- Misery, Mado
Antonia! - Said the Lord in the same language -.

All leave the poor, and the best day, if that rascal does not bring what we must, we will eat each
other, same as if we were shipwrecked.

The old woman smiled, "Mr. always happy."

In this was a vivid portrait of his grandfather, Horace eternally serious, got a face that
fear, but saying such stuff ...

- This must end - Jaime continued, ignoring the joy of the servant -.

This will end Today, I decided ... Know, Mado, before the story runs: I case.

The maid clasped her hands devoutly to express their astonishment
and raised his eyes to the ceiling.

Blood Holy Christ! It's about time ... Should have done before, and another would be the state
of the house. Awoke a curiosity, and asked with peasant greed:

- Is it rich? ...

The nod did not surprise Mr. Necessarily had to be rich. Only one woman she carries with her a
large fortune could aspire to join the last of the Febrer, which
had been the most remarkable men of the island and perhaps the world.

Poor Madò thought in your kitchen, instantly populating it with the imagination of vessels bright
copper and gold, seeing all the fires lit, full of girls of bare
arms, the back rebocillo, floating braid, and she in the middle, sitting
on a chair, giving orders and smelling the delightful whiff of pans.

-
Will Young! - Said the old woman to get more news to his master.

-
Yes, young, much younger than I am too young, about twenty years.

I recently needed to to be his father.

Madò made a gesture of protest.

Don Jaime was the handsomest man on the island. She said she he had admired from the time he
was in shorts and led him by the hand a walk among the pines immediate
Bellver Castle.

It was a Febrer, that family of arrogant big shots, and it was said
it all.

- What is good home? - Kept asking to force the brevity of
his master -.

Family undoubtedly gentlemen, the very best of the island ... But no, now I guess. Maybe it
Madrid. Some dating from when you lived there.

James hesitated a moment, turned pale, and then said with rough energy to hide his confusion:

- No, Mado ... It is a chueta.

Antonia was to join hands, and just before invoking again the Blood of Christ so venerated in Palma,
but suddenly widened the lines of his dark face, and broke to laugh ... What Mr. so happy! Like
his grandfather.

He said the most wonderful and amazing with a seriousness that deceived
the people.

And she, poor fool, he had thought such jokes! Maybe even as the marriage was a lie ...

- No, Mado. I marry a chueta ... I marry the daughter of Don Benito Valls. For that I will Valldemossa
today.

The muffled voice of James, his eyes downcast, timid accent that whispered these words, taken
from doubt the servant. Was it with his mouth open, his arms folded, no strength to raise
their hands or eyes.

- Lord ... Lord ... Lord ...

He could not say more. He thought it sounded like thunder, making the old thrill house, that
a cloud had passed before the sun, darkening, the sea became leaden moving in choppy waves against
the wall. Then he saw that everything was the same, only It was moved by this great news, worthy
of overturning the existing order.

- Lord ... Lord ... Lord ...

And grabbing the empty bowl and the remains of the bread, she ran, eager to take refuge as before
in the kitchen. After hearing such horrors, the house was fearful. Had to walk someone for the
venerable halls of the other side of the building: someone she could not know who it was, but
that probably had just awakened from a dream of centuries. The palace had a soul. When the mother
was alone in it, furniture creaked as if they spoke among them, pulsed
tapestries hidden his face moved, vibrated in a corner a golden harp
the grandmother of Don Jaime, and she did not feel afraid anymore,
because people had been Febrer good, simple and kind to their servers.

But now, after hearing such things!

... Thought with some concern in the pictures that adorned the room hosting. Which face of those
gentlemen, if they had come to them the words of his descendant!

Antonia Madò finally calm, drinking coffee remains prepared for the Lord. And not afraid, but felt
deep sadness for the fate of Don Jaime, as if he saw him in threatening. Finish thus Febrer house!
What God could tolerate such things? ... Certain contempt for the Lord came to momentarily overcome
the old affection.

Finally, a skull forgotten religion and morality, he had squandered what remainder of the fortune
of his house. What would they say their famous relatives? Shame his aunt Juana, that noble
lady - the holiest and Nobleman of the island - which, some for fun and others for excessive
veneration, called the Popess!

- Bye, Mado ... In the evening I'll be back.

The old greeted with a grunt to Jaime, who poked his head to say goodbye.

Then, looking single, lifted her arms, invoking the help of the Blood of Christ, the Virgen
del Lluch, patron saint of the island, and the portentous San Vicente Ferrer, who had performed many
miracles during their sermons in Mallorca. One more, holy prodigious monstrosity to avoid projecting
his master!

... That fall a stone from the mountains, intercepting forever Valldemossa Road, which overturn
the cart and bring Don Jaime four men ... everything before that shame!

Febrer crossed the reception, opened the door to the stairs and started down the soft steps.
His grandparents, like all the nobles of the island, built big.

The ladder and the hall occupied a third of the floor of the house. A kind of loggia to Italian,
with five arches supported by slender columns, extended to the termination of the stairs, opening
into the ends of the two doors that gave access to the two upper wings the building. In the center
of her balcony above the start of the stairs in front to the front door, was the stone shield in
the Febrer, with iron farolón forged.

James, coming down, struck his stick on the sandstone steps or touched the large painted amphorae
that adorned the landings, and they struck back with a sound bell. The iron railings, rusty
with age and crumbling into rusty scales trembling, almost loose from their sockets, with
the sound of footsteps.

On reaching the hall, Febrer stopped. The extreme resolution was adopted, and would to influence
the destinies forever in its name, made him look curiously at the same places before crossing
indifferent.

Nowhere in the building felt like here's former prosperity. The hall, huge a place which could
support more than a dozen floats and a whole squadron of cavalry.

Twelve columns something bellied, hazelnut marble of the island, holding the stone arches cut
into pieces without any coating, which extended above the roof beams black. The floor was gravel,
and moss growing between them from moisture. Freshness of debris stretched for this entry gigantic
and solitary. A cat crossed the hall, leaving through the hole of a worm-eaten door of the old
stables, to disappear into the abandoned underground had kept the crops in the past. On one side
was a well the same time that the palace was built, an opening in the rock, curbstone Stone
gnawed by time and a steeple worked to hammer iron. The ivy growing in fresh bouquets among the highlights
of the polished stone.

Many times, Jaime, being child, had appeared to be seen down at the
circular pupil and their light sleeping waters.

The street was deserted.

At the end of it, next to the garden wall of Febrer there was the city wall, and open a gate in the
wall with wooden bars his bow, same as the teeth of a huge mouth of fish. At the bottom of this
mouth trembled, bright green, the waters of the bay.

Jaime walked a few steps in the blue stones of the street, lack of sidewalks, and stopped to look
after your home. It was just a small remnant of the past. The old palace Febrer occupied the entire block,
but had been getting smaller over the centuries and family troubles. Now a part of it was the
residence of nuns, and other fractions had been purchased by some rich, which disfigured with
modern practicable balcony the primitive unit building, witnessed by the uniform line of eaves
and roofs. The Febrer them, refugees in that part of the mansion that overlooked the garden
and the sea, had to give the lower floors to increase their income, a small warehouse and
industrial. Next to the stately home, after a few windows, some worked ironing linen girls, Jaime
greeted with a respectful smile. He remained motionless in contemplation of the old house.

What a beautiful still, despite their amputation and their age!

...

The stone plinth, pierced and bent inwards by the friction of people
and carriages, was broken by several skylights storey bars.

The lower part of the palace showed himself corroded, torn and dusty, like feet that had walked
for centuries.

From the mezzanine floor with independent entrance, which had been rented to a warehouse drugs,
began to develop the elegant splendor of the facade. Three windows to arch of the gate level, divided
by double columns, marble showed their frames finely crafted black.

The thistles climbed the stone columns supporting the cornice, and on the latter field three
large medallions: the middle one with the bust of Emperor and the inscription Carolus Dominus
Imperator 1541, memories of his passage through to the unfortunate
Mallorca Algiers expedition, the side boasting the Febrer weapons,
supported by fish man with bearded heads.

In large first floor windows jambs climbed cornices and wreaths made of anchors and dolphins,
witness the glories of this family of sailors. Abríanse huge spikes on their shells. At the highest
the facade lay a compact row of windows with Gothic ornaments, some boarded up, others open to give
light and air into the lofts, and above them the monumental forward, forward great, as is
only found in the palaces of Mallorca, extending until the average the street or assembling
of carved wood, blackened by time and supported by vigorous gargoyles.

Extendíanse across the facade, forming quadrilaterals, decayed wood slats nailed clamps and rusted
iron. Were remnants of the great highlights with the house commemorating certain parties in their glory.

Jaime
seemed satisfied with this test. It was still beautiful palace of their ancestors, despite the
lack of glass windows, dust and cobwebs crammed into the holes, the tears that had been opened in
centuries revoked. When he marry and fortune Valls happened to the old hands, were all to marvel
at the magnificent resurrection Febrer. And yet they were offended some of his resolution and
he felt certain scruples? ... Adelante!

He walked to the terminal, broad avenue that is the center of Palma, in the old stream other times
separated the city into two towns and two sides enemies Amunt Can
and Can Avall.

They find a car to take him to Valldemossa.

Upon entering the terminal immobility attracted attention of several passersby who shaded of
trees copudos watched some farmers held before the window of a shop.
Febrer recognized his clothes, other than those used by the peasants
of the island. Were Ibiza ... Ah, Ibiza! The name of this island evoked
the memory of a year of her adolescence remote spent there. Seeing
those people who did smile at Mallorca as if they were foreigners,
Jaime smiled, looking forward to their costumes and figures.

It was
undoubtedly a father with his daughter and son. The farmer was wearing
white sandals, falling on the broad hood of a blue corduroy pants.
His jacket was attached blouse on the chest with a brooch, revealing
shirt and sash. A dark cloak of a woman resting on his shoulders like
a shawl to complete this costume semifemenil, which contrasted with
his hard and brown as a Moor, under his hat a kerchief knotted at
the chin with the ends hanging over the back. The son, who looked
fourteen, dressed like him, with the same narrow-leg pants and wide
bell, but without the shawl or handkerchief. A pink ribbon hanging
on his breast like a tie, a sprig of weeds sticking out of one ear,
and tape embroidered hat lying on flowers left neck released a wave
of curls falling on her face brown, thin, malicious, encouraged by
the light of African eyes of intense blackness.

The girl was calling
more attention, with its tiny green skirt folds under which sensed
the presence of other skirts, balloon inflated several wrappers seemed
to further diminish fine and funny feet enclosed in white sandals.
The hide her protruding chest contours under a yellow shawl with red
flowers.

There was no detail whose significance he missed as they went about together. He had keen eyes
and was a quite sufficiently practical person on such matters as concerned his own interests.
In this case it was to his interest to make up his mind as to what he might gain or lose by
the appearance of his wife's family. He did not mean to lose--if it could be helped--anything
either of personal importance or material benefit. And it could only be helped by his comprehending
clearly what he had to deal with. Betty was, at present, the chief factor in the situation,
and he was sufficiently astute to see that she might not be easy to read. His personal theories
concerning women presented to him two or three effective ways of managing them. You made love
to them, you flattered them either subtly or grossly, you roughly or smoothly bullied them,
or you harrowed them with haughty indifference--if your love-making had produced its proper
effect--when it was necessary to lure or drive or trick them into submission. Women should
be made useful in one way or another. Little fool as she was, Rosalie had been useful. He had,
after all was said and done, had some comparatively easy years as the result of her existence.
But she had not been useful enough, and there had even been moments when he had wondered if
he had made a mistake in separating her entirely from her family. There might have been more
to be gained if he had allowed them to visit her and had played the part of a devoted husband
in their presence. A great bore, of course, but they could not have spent their entire lives
at Stornham. Twelve years ago, however, he had known very little of Americans, and he had lost
his temper. He was really very fond of his temper, and rather enjoyed referring to it with
tolerant regret as being a bad one and beyond his control--with a manner which suggested that
the attribute was the inevitable result of strength of character and masculine spirit. The
luxury of giving way to it was a great one, and it was exasperating as he walked about with
this handsome girl to find himself beginning to suspect that, where she was concerned, some
self-control might be necessary. He was led to this thought because the things he took in on
all sides could only have been achieved by a person whose mind was a steadily-balanced thing.
In one's treatment of such a creature, methods must be well chosen. The crudest had sufficed
to overwhelm Rosalie. He tried two or three little things as experiments during their walk.

The first was to touch with dignified pathos on the subject of Ughtred. Betty, he intimated
gently, could imagine what a man's grief and disappointment might be on finding his son and
heir deformed in such a manner. The delicate reserve with which he managed to convey his fear
that Rosalie's own uncontrolled hysteric attacks had been the cause of the misfortune was very
well done. She had, of course, been very young and much spoiled, and had not learned self-restraint,
poor girl.

It was at this point that Betty first realised a certain hideous thing. She must actually remain
silent--there would be at the outset many times when she could only protect her sister by refraining
from either denial or argument. If she turned upon him now with refutation, it was Rosy who
would be called upon to bear the consequences. He would go at once to Rosy, and she herself
would have done what she had said she would not do--she would have brought trouble upon the
poor girl before she was strong enough to bear it. She suspected also that his intention was
to discover how much she had heard, and if she might be goaded into betraying her attitude
in the matter.

But she was not to be so goaded. He watched her closely and her very colour itself seemed to
be under her own control. He had expected--if she had heard hysteric, garbled stories from
his wife--to see a flame of scarlet leap up on the cheek he was admiring. There was no such
leap, which was baffling in itself. Could it be that experience had taught Rosalie the discretion
of keeping her mouth shut?

"I am very fond of Ughtred," was the sole comment he was granted. "We made friends from the
first. As he grows older and stronger, his misfortune may be less apparent. He will be a very
clever man."

"He will be a very clever man if he is at all like----" He checked himself with a slight movement
of his shoulders. "I was going to say a thing utterly banal. I beg your pardon. I forgot for
the moment that I was not talking to an English girl."

It was so stupid that she turned and looked at him, smiling faintly. But her answer was quite
mild and soft.

"Do not deprive me of compliments because I am a mere American," she said. "I am very fond
of them, and respond at once."

"You are very daring," he said, looking straight into her eyes--"deliciously so. American women
always are, I think."

"The young devil," he was saying internally. "The beautiful young devil! She throws one off
the track."

He found himself more and more attracted and exasperated as they made their rounds. It was
his sense of being attracted which was the cause of his exasperation. A girl who could stir
one like this would be a dangerous enemy. Even as a friend she would not be safe, because one
faced the absurd peril of losing one's head a little and forgetting the precautions one should
never lose sight of where a woman was concerned--the precautions which provided for one's holding
a good taut rein in one's own hands.

They went from gardens to greenhouses, from greenhouses to stables, and he was on the watch
for the moment when she would reveal some little feminine pose or vanity, but, this morning,
at least, she laid none bare. She did not strike him as a being of angelic perfections, but
she was very modern and not likely to show easily any openings in her armour.

"Of course, I continue to be amazed," he commented, "though one ought not to be amazed at anything
which evolves from your extraordinary country. In spite of your impersonal air, I shall persist
in regarding you as my benefactor. But, to be frank, I always told Rosalie that if she would
write to your father he would certainly put things in order."

"She did write once, you will remember," answered Betty.

"Did she?" with courteous vagueness. "Really, I am afraid I did not hear of it. My poor wife
has her own little ideas about the disposal of her income."

And Betty knew that she was expected to believe that Rosy had hoarded the money sent to restore
the place, and from sheer weak miserliness had allowed her son's heritage to fall to ruin.
And but for Rosy's sake, she might have stopped upon the path and, looking at him squarely,
have said, "You are lying to me. And I know the truth."

He continued to converse amiably.

"Of course, it is you one must thank, not only for rousing in the poor girl some interest in
her personal appearance, but also some interest in her neighbours. Some women, after they marry
and pass girlhood, seem to release their hold on all desire to attract or retain friends. For
years Rosalie has given herself up to a chronic semi-invalidism. When the mistress of a house
is always depressed and languid and does not return visits, neighbours become discouraged and
drop off, as it were."

If his wife had told stories to gain her sympathy his companion would be sure to lose her temper
and show her hand. If he could make her openly lose her temper, he would have made an advance.

"One can quite understand that," she said. "It is a great happiness to me to see Rosy gaining
ground every day. She has taken me out with her a good many times, and people are beginning
to realise that she likes to see them at Stornham." | 98 | 34 | 16 | 148 | 108 | 34
| 10 | 152 | 300 | | August. | 101 | 19 | 14 | 134 | 77 | 19 | 21 | 117 | 251 | | September.
| 108 | 26 | 10 | 144 | 76 | 35 | 21 | 132 | 276 | | October. | 84 | 31 | 9 | 124 | 84 | 33
| 12 | 129 | 253 | | November | 106 | 34 | 15 | 155 | 88 | 29 | 9 | 126 | 281 | | December.
| 71 | 26 | 20 | 117 | 83 | 19 | 15 | 117 | 234 | |-----------+----+---+---+----+----+---+-- -+----+----| | Total | 1215 | 335
| 176 | 1726 | 1039 | 353 | 169 | 1561 | 3287 | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-
--- +

Having found very different times of the deaths according to
the ages and sexes, I merely present here, without distinction between
the maximum and minimum results, the Drawn from the preceding state
total.

+------------------------------------------------- + | | DEATH.

| | YEAR. |---------------------------------------| | | MAXIMUM RESULTS. | RESULT MINIMUM.
| |---------|-------------------------------------- - | | | June 146 | October 1963 | | 1828 |
July 107 | November 1970 | | | March 183 | August 1976 | |---------|----------------------------------
-----| | | June 121 | December 1960 | | 1829 | July 103 | August 1969 | | | November 101 |
January 1978 | |---------|------------------------------ ---------| | | May 111 | January
1962 | | 1830 | November 110 | February 78 | | | August 106 | March 1985 | |---------|-----------------------------
----------| | Summary | June 559 | January 229 | | of the | July 300 | December 234 | | three years | May
292 | August. 251 | +----------------------------------------------- - +

In the province of Moxos maximum results of deaths have always been rather during the months of
May, June and July, ie during the period of the three driest months
and cold of the year, a period subsequent to that in which the waters
that cover the province evaporate leaving huge areas full of swamps
and stagnant pools and fetid.

It may well therefore claim the maximum results of deaths during the dry season; 1, the winds of
winter, naturally cool to men accustomed to a temperament so hot and are always nearly naked,
2 ° to the disease (intermittent fevers) determining the deadly miasma that is then re-air.

It is certainly curious that the maximum result of the deaths occurring in Europe just as the torrid
zone, in the coldest season of the year. (See the work and cited Mr. Quetelet, t. II, pg. 310 and t.
I, pp. 188.) Thus, disregarding of local influences just mentioned, takes place in Europe for
the deaths, the same as seen in America.

In Moxos, the minimum time of the deaths result is consistent with the time abundant rainfall,
ie the period in which the navigator's tasks are less painful, with shorter communications,
and which also stop the putrid exhalations swampy places.

Health of the province.

If, as a corollary of what I said on the movement of the population and deaths, is to take a quick
glance at the health of the province We find his vast area is much
healthier than it might be assumed in view of the large amount of
wetlands that dry time every year exhale fumes corrupt: and yes, it
is not known in the province one particular disease, and the number
of people attacked by intermittent fever, in the months of March and
April, is certainly very small, especially on the banks of the Mamore.

These fevers have no character ever malignant and are much less intense
than in the provinces of Mizque and Valle Grande.

Sometimes the excess moisture often causes dysentery. This disease, once much feared by the natives,
is today much less frequent, and easily passes the refreshments.

The extraordinary mortality that is seen in Moxos from two accidents, or the cold, so harmful to
the creatures, or of any of several eruptive fevers, such as smallpox, measles and scarlet fever
having their toll on people of all ages.

All Indians attacked by the fever of invasion, feeling the heat inside the burns, believe finding
some relief to go and take a bath where it is certainly a repercussions for the interior, causing
death.

Meanwhile, to halt such mortality would be sufficient that the priests and administrators to
have an active surveillance.

Much of the creatures die at ten days have seen the light, and the lack care, and too cold by
the action of winds from the south. The women delivered tirelessly to the tasks imposed on
them by administrators, either by his own account, whether for the government, are forced to neglect
their neonates, who die the suffering that exposes their age and
this kind of abandonment.

Administration of the province.

Until 1842, the province ruled by governors estubo subordinate to
the prefect of Santa Cruz, and who exercised their functions as despotic
as he pleased.

A governor has under their orders in the capital, a general manager
who acts as secretary, and each population, a particular administrator
vested with certain powers that much abused more brazen as that is
separate from that might rebuke their conduct, not Ignoring the orders
they have passed their superiors.

They are the judges and referees the Indians to punish those who do not listen sometimes more than
their voice whims. Under the orders of each of these managers is an indigenous cacique several
other subordinate chiefs who existed in the time of the Jesuits, not having been altered In
this regard, as I said, those religious institutions.

Moxos province has a vicar general, appointed by the Bishop of Santa-Cruz, and there in each mission
one or two priests in charge of spiritual government. Very often tend to be these powers in
rivalry with the managers, resulting in riots and disputes thousand which shock and serve
as a bad example to the missions.

Customs, practices and moral status of the province.

If under the administration of the priests were forced Indians Concepcion [1] to make office of
horses pulling the carriage in which he was the priest of this mission,
if later the Spanish governors did not sit at the table without sending
a troop of musicians come to the amused during the meal, or not allowed
to see their subjects, but sitting under a canopy; be taxed even today
many of these honors exaggerated to the leaders of the province.

When the governor of the province journey goes, administrators and priests of the missions make
canoes decorated with flowers, placing them a drum to announce the senior the traveler. So this
sighting sound port boxes, and the priests and administrators, followed by the chief magistrates
of the mission, are ahead of their meeting.

Mounts Governor on horseback, and heads to town with all these committees, which precedes an
Indian touching the box going at full gallop. Approaching the mission bells ring for give notice
of the arrival of the chief of the province, and then leave the judges and other employees
welcome to the accompaniment of musicians. Triumphantly driven to school, go presented to him
on all the indigenous peoples, which are translated harangue him by an interpreter. Then come to
Indian girls offer flowers. The duration of food not the music stops for a moment, and when
night is a dance in which often make it dance by force the Indians to young girls. The drums with
a roll advertising the arrival of the dancers that come in pairs, the rhythm of the motion
carried by the music that precedes them: then through the entire room with moderate affecting walking
and imperturbable gravity, parade in front of the governor, and then if any are welcomed to
register online on to dance the quadrille Spanish. Trinidad and Loreto in the women dance
barefoot and wear a calico dress, or simply the tipoi, this same fabric around her waist, her hair
is held in place by a comb at the top of the head. The dancers, usually young men of fourteen
dress pants and shirt, and wear a white cap and more or less as the women of Normandy. After
having executed his contradanza very seriously, welcome back to the governor and take every
seat. Traders and other targets found by chance in mission, usually take part in these amusements,
courting the dancers, who dare a bit when it's punch, and are not to pray and to perform the different
dances used in Santa Cruz.

Bolivians white van traveling in the province in canoes made from a single hollowed log: These vessels
are generally nine to twelve yards long, on one or two wide, are very low in the middle board
and rarely, being charged, beyond two or three inches to the surface of the waves, and so that
the minor crash into a tree floating water enters them in abundance. The canoes of a regular size
generally recognized four or five trunks, and at most three passengers to take cover from the
sun or from bad weather under a canopy of leather where you can barely
sit.

The number of rowers VARIES the length of the vessel, to direct, remain standing in the rear the captain
Canoe and his assistant, two other Indians are sitting on the opposite extremity, being careful
prevent and avoid pregnancy. The rowers, placed in the middle of them two by two, do not leave
hand throughout the day's big and wide paddles which serve to promote small boat. All these Indians
begins the day with a swim, and scratch the day are already underway: the top to make about eight for
lunch, and before going any further take a second bathroom. At noon they stop again for an hour for lunch,
and then navigate until evening. When the traveler is a personage of distinction, send administrators
a canoe loaded with food, where food is prepared hours to rule without detensiones waste time.
In all traffic Indians play their tasks with greater heat as possible and not given an idea
of ​​the lengthy care that cater to travelers, while always alert to guess and to prevent
their children wishes.

When you have to climb a river, usually go from eight to ten miles per day, and when Vogue
downstream is usually double this distance, but this depends on the varying speed current, variable
in each river, and also of the rowers, whose skill and activity not all parts are of equal
rank. Each nation has its particular way of paddling: the Itonama will sit and paddle with
lots of precipitation; the Cayuvava, also seated row slowly but forcefully, while the Baures remain
standing as if more Drive to the oars. Of all these nations the Cayuvava are more famous rowers,
and try to preserve their reputation, striving to excel in speed
to all vessels foreigners who are on their way.

These natives have a habit of bathing three times a day when they go on journey, to practice, they
stop suddenly, thrown into the water, dive and return, to peel his shirt dress, then continued
walking. All Once Moxos come to bathe, teach their backs covered with scars that appear to
burns, and which are simply the result of the flogging of Holy Week. Among them manifest themselves
proud of carrying such signs on their bodies, mocking with certain irony for those who do not.

When
the weather is beautiful, the heat which prevails to this noon in the narrow callegon formed
by flakes and ancient trees that adorn the banks of rivers, never come to be tempered by the
slightest breeze and passengers, the traveler then throwing less vivifying air of the past week, want the
night with impatience, but as soon as This involves land, dense vapors rising from the river,
and is a very wet morning as if it had rained all night tough. When it rains during the day with
no storm, leaving thousands of mosquitoes forests, and taking refuge in canoes, torture to
the poor travelers, who too suffer such discomfort at night. If time becomes extremely bad,
the Indians built a hut haste cane under which the travelers to get insured against the torrents
of rain, and if this continues, They also built for spacious cabins, so that in a few moments
becomes camp in a hamlet where many days remain until the wind subsides.

The waves that promote strong winds in the large rivers are not, as we have said, the only danger
to which the traveler is nswer passing through those places. Sandy gullies derrepente usually
subside over the water, dragging down one of the giant trees that stand on the banks, whose
roots are huge behind a huge mass of land. If all this debris falling by chance on fragile boat,
make it disappear completely, but when this happens, would be sufficient to make waves capsized
the projection, which excite such collapses within waves.

Sometimes up rivers in the rainy season, the Indian venture to go through among the arms that
form the islands, where the current is less evident fast, however, these arms are often found
in their shots blocked by thick trunks that have piled up the waters, if the rowers trying
to save the way they get by small narrow where the current is very impetuous, tangle the canoe
through the branches, and is filled water at a time: just alarmed are cast into the river course,
and I swam, and Bolivia on the branches, holding the boat without sinking, until they reach
their assistance in the other canoes. It is on such occasions when the superstitious Cayuvava
demolish an ear of corn in thanksgiving to the supreme providence for having liberated the danger.

If
these journeys are painful for the Spanish, they are still much more to the poor Indians, ESPONSE
TO the weather constantly, and often forced to spend the night in floodplains, suspended over
water in their hammocks.

Countless pieces of vegetation, hidden beneath the waters, they often
capsize canoes: Then the Indians detiénense on some sandbar to put
out the merchandise.

Very rarely get any Indian to perish in these trances, they all swim like if waves were his natural
element. But there are other dangers to which his life is in such esponse Voyages: cite as
a major encounter with the tigers. When they discover about Beaches traces of this beast,
immediately raised his camp, going to seek not further the comprehensive security, and if in the
middle of the night, hear their roars, go to immediately collect all the firewood they can and
large lit bonfires, but this is not always the take cover against the fatal accidents, especially when
the expedition consists ne more than Indians. Magdalena A manager had sent in one occasion
a few Indians to go and collect the cuttings in the woods of a tree, which provides ash eSCelente
for a potash soap factory. Many days that these Indians had entirely unarmed, were camped and
cons to your job, when suddenly there was a night among them a hungry
tiger, and throwing himself on an Indian lay asleep in his hammock,
I had to devour far from there, however, afraid the tumultuous cries
of the other Indians awoke to the cries of the victim, threw to run,
stranding the poor Indian head pieces and with very few moments of
life.

This is like a reproach to the absurd extent that, under the pretext of avoiding quarrels with
the whites, prohibited [1] to carry weapons to men constantly nswers to the greatest dangers
in the midst of those deserts, whose empire still belongs to animals
fierce.

It is noteworthy that the tiger never enviste to people whose head can not see, and not a single
example of any traveler, be well hidden under his mosquito net, there victim died of his hunger.

The
banks of the Mamore, usually very quiet, come once a year to spend countless canoes that go together
Moxos to Santa-Cruz, and giving to the screams echo tumultuous and gay sailors, paid an animation
whose name might be delicious. Made I happen also to journey I found myself at the time one of
these expeditions. Will copy here the point of my diary that refers to this passage.

"... More than forty boats were preparing to depart at once from the port of Loreto, composing a
veritable fleet. Priests and traders who were incorporated into the expedition, they wanted I ordered
me to lead the way, traveling in company, and how could practice better, since my rowers were
the ablest, of course I accepted the honor they gave me. At the end of the day we stopped for
the night on a roomy bench Sandy, not far from a forest. Then I was taken to enjoy a promising
perspective, canoes as they came slowly and successively greeted by triumphant shouts or derision
of those who speak in advance. All Indians then scattered into the forest, and bringing back
wood, some with canes that armed beds for travelers, and symmetric key stakes thick on the ground
to suspend, for separate groups the beds belonging to the rowers in each boat: in the center
of these groups went on a fire, and the outside parle shone at intervals, and other fires where
making dinner. "

"Our camp, which brought together over six hundred people, had the most curious aspect I could imagine.
They spoke to him almost all the languages ​​of the province, without being confused each other
different nations. All the white people had gathered in the center while here and there, the Baures,
the Itonama, the Movimas, the Cayuvava, the Canichana Moxos and forming
various groups, conversing in their respective dialects.

The little beach transuto lonely before the theater was the most animated. Each group of white
beds, hanging around a bonfire, in contrast with the nets of travelers and the row of canoes
which extended majestically along the banks [1]: sitting all on the beach after dinner in the
community, raising thousands cheerful conversation, to which the strangeness of different lenguages
​​was more originality.

Each individual, away Moxos, was already escento fears and let your tongue go free, the indiscretions
of the one giving rise to the recriminations of the other, so they were revealed in That night
all the secrets about the private conduct of employees, and I knew most things In one hour,
which in some months in the province. "

"Finished dinner, all the Indians gathered as usual to pray in community. These religious songs
so many times I had been pleasantly surprised in the midst of those wilderness, sounded to my
ear at that time with such disagreement, I had to retire to one side, and could not be less
than the confusion of those different intonations dialects, which occurred all at once in the
silence of the night. The Indians, without covering with other clothes that their tipois, lie
in their hammocks, and spend the night ESPONSE TO THE fierce mosquito bites, and especially the
heavy dew that falls in the regions hot on the banks of rivers. Hardly bay day, rise and,
after hook their hammocks, sing in chorus and the more reflective
the appeal of the morning.

"

When traveling with an entourage consisting of a single nation, and that is high in the forest the
banks, these prayers of the night often have inexplicable charm. I can not spare to bring the case
to the expression recorded in my diary of the sensations that the solemnity of such an act once
printed in my mind. "The night was certainly one of the darker, and the gloom seemed even more
under the arch formed by the thick foliage. Shone distance away in the fires of the Indians encamped,
spreading clarity uncertain about the objects around us and giving a wild magical colorful enclosure.
A thing of my seventy-eight Indians in chorus sang their hymns, which in the silence of the night,
in those places took a character that I felt so much majesty deeply moved, I had never seemed
so simple at the same time imposing: his duration was too short for my bliss, and long after they
had ceased, still looking for my ear their mystic chords. Took possession of my mind a sweet
melancholy are harmonious with the vagueness of my thoughts and especially with the respect they
inspired me virginal beauty of those places

.
 If the fellow had
been making himself agreeable to Betty, it was as well that certain points should be--as it
were inadvertently--brought before her.

Miss Vanderpoel was really rather fine, people said to each other afterwards, when she entered
the ballroom at Dunholm Castle with her brother-in-law. She bore herself as composedly as if
she had been escorted by the most admirable and dignified of conservative relatives, instead
of by a man who was more definitely disliked and disapproved of than any other man in the county
whom decent people were likely to meet. Yet, she was far too clever a girl not to realise the
situation clearly, they said to each other. She had arrived in England to find her sister a
neglected wreck, her fortune squandered, and her existence stripped bare of even such things
as one felt to be the mere decencies. There was but one thing to be deduced from the facts
which had stared her in the face. But of her deductions she had said nothing whatever, which
was, of course, remarkable in a young person. It may be mentioned that, perhaps, there had
been those who would not have been reluctant to hear what she must have had to say, and who
had even possibly given her a delicate lead. But the lead had never been taken. One lady had
even remarked that, on her part, she felt that a too great reserve verged upon secretiveness,
which was not a desirable girlish quality.

Of course the situation had been so much discussed that people were naturally on the lookout
for the arrival of the Stornham party, as it was known that Sir Nigel had returned home, and
would be likely to present himself with his wife and sister-in-law. There was not a dowager
present who did not know how and where he had reprehensibly spent the last months. It served
him quite right that the Spanish dancing person had coolly left him in the lurch for a younger
and more attractive, as well as a richer man. If it were not for Miss Vanderpoel, one need
not pretend that one knew nothing about the affair--in fact, if it had not been for Miss Vanderpoel,
he would not have received an invitation--and poor Lady Anstruthers would be sitting at home,
still the forlorn little frump and invalid she had so wonderfully ceased to be since her sister
had taken her in hand. She was absolutely growing even pretty and young, and her clothes were
really beautiful. The whole thing was amazing.

Betty, as well as Rosalie and Nigel--knew that many people turned undisguisedly to look at
them--even to watch them as they came into the splendid ballroom. It was a splendid ballroom
and a stately one, and Lord Dunholm and Lord Westholt shared a certain thought when they met
her, which was that hers was distinctly the proud young brilliance of presence which figured
most perfectly against its background. Much as people wanted to look at Sir Nigel, their eyes
were drawn from him to Miss Vanderpoel. After all it was she who made him an object of interest.
One wanted to know what she would do with him--how she would "carry him off." How much did
she know of the distaste people felt for him, since she would not talk or encourage talk? The
Dunholms could not have invited her and her sister, and have ignored him; but did she not guess
that they would have ignored him, if they could? and was there not natural embarrassment in
feeling forced to appear in pomp, as it were, under his escort?

But no embarrassment was perceptible. Her manner committed her to no recognition of a shadow
of a flaw in the character of her companion. It even carried a certain conviction with it,
and the lookers-on felt the impossibility of suggesting any such flaw by their own manner.
For this evening, at least, the man must actually be treated as if he were an entirely unobjectionable
person. It appeared as if that was what the girl wanted, and intended should happen.

This was what Nigel himself had begun to perceive, but he did not put it pleasantly. Deucedly
clever girl as she was, he said to himself, she saw that it would be more agreeable to have
no nonsense talked, and no ruffling of tempers. He had always been able to convey to people
that the ruffling of his temper was a thing to be avoided, and perhaps she had already been
sharp enough to realise this was a fact to be counted with. She was sharp enough, he said to
himself, to see anything.

The function was a superb one. The house was superb, the rooms of entertainment were in every
proportion perfect, and were quite renowned for the beauty of the space they offered; the people
themselves were, through centuries of dignified living, so placed that intercourse with their
kind was an easy and delightful thing. They need never doubt either their own effect, or the
effect of their hospitalities. Sir Nigel saw about him all the people who held enviable place
in the county. Some of them he had never known, some of them had long ceased to recall his
existence. There were those among them who lifted lorgnettes or stuck monocles into their eyes
as he passed, asking each other in politely subdued tones who the man was who seemed to be
in attendance on Miss Vanderpoel. Nigel knew this and girded at it internally, while he made
the most of his suave smile.

The distinguished personage who was the chief guest was to be seen at the upper end of the
room talking to a tall man with broad shoulders, who was plainly interesting him for the moment.
As the Stornham party passed on, this person, making his bow, retired, and, as he turned towards
them, Sir Nigel recognising him, the agreeable smile was for the moment lost.

"How in the name of Heaven did Mount Dunstan come here?" broke from him with involuntary heat.

"Would it be rash to conclude," said Betty, as she returned the bow of a very grand old lady
in black velvet and an imposing tiara, "that he came in response to invitation?"

The very grand old lady seemed pleased to see her, and, with a royal little sign, called her
to her side. As Betty Vanderpoel was a great success with the Mrs. Weldens and old Dobys of
village life, she was also a success among grand old ladies. When she stood before them there
was a delicate submission in her air which was suggestive of obedience to the dignity of their
years and state. Strongly conservative and rather feudal old persons were much pleased by this.
In the present irreverent iconoclasm of modern times, it was most agreeable to talk to a handsome
creature who was as beautifully attentive as if she had been a specially perfect young lady-in-waiting.

This one even patted Betty's hand a little, when she took it. She was a great county potentate,
who was known as Lady Alanby of Dole--her house being one of the most ancient and interesting
in England.

"I am glad to see you here to-night," she said. "You are looking very nice. But you cannot
help that."

Betty asked permission to present her sister and brother-in-law. Lady Alanby was polite to
both of them, but she gave Nigel a rather sharp glance through her gold pince-nez as she greeted
him. But time passed in vain, neither sung mass or stones. Uncle Guster remained invisible.
Then, when you open your window, watching a clear sky, bright, the soft splendor of the winter
sun, but the sea was rough, no foam and no waving noise influence of a dangerous wind.

The rains covered the island in a gray robe, which barely marked with undecided outlines the
nearby mountains. Peak to Peak weeping pines for all filaments its foliage and the thick humus
layer was soaked like a sponge, expelling fluid under foot footprint. On the bare stage of the
coast, rock, amontonábase rain tumultuous forming streams, leaping from rock to rock.

The broad enormous fig trees were shaking like broken umbrellas, letting the water in the large
enclosure sheltered by the dome. The almond trees, bare of leaves, trembling as black skeletons.
The deep ravines llenábanse roaring water that rolled into infertile the sea. Roads, paved with
blue pebbles, between high dry stone embankment, convertíanse cataracts. The island, thirsty and dusty
for much of the year, seemed to repel by every pore of this exuberance of winter rain, like
a sick drug repellent Late energetic and difficult to assimilate.

In these days of rain, Febrer was locked in his tower. It was impossible to go to sea and impossible
to also go with the shotgun in the fields of the island. The farmsteads were closed, with
its white stained by pouring buckets of rain, no more life to the thread blue smoke escaping from
the holes in the chimneys.

Forced to inertia, the lord of the Pirate's Tower again to reread one of the few books purchased
in their travels to the city or smoked thoughtfully, recalling the
past I had wanted to run ... What would happen in Mallorca?

What would your friends? ...

Immersed in this enforced immobility, when he needed the distraction of physical exercise She
remembered the previous life, increasingly distant and indecisive in his memory. I thought it
was another's life, something he had seen and knew exactly, but belonging to the story of
an alien existence. Is it really that Jaime Febrer which had rolled through Europe and had their
hour of pride and triumph was the same who was now a tower seaside,
rustic, bearded and almost wild, peasant sandals and hats, more accustomed
noise of the waves and the shriek of the gulls that try men?

...

Weeks before he had received a second letter from his friend Toni Clapp, the smuggler. It was
also written in a cafe in the terminal: four lines scribbled in a hurry to make This his good memory.
That rough and kind friend will not forget, not even looked have been offended by his previous letter
unanswered. He spoke of Captain Paul. Always Febrer angry, but moving deftly to untangle their affairs.
The smuggler had faith in Valls. It was the smartest of chuetas and generous as any of them. Undoubtedly
remains afloat would take the fortune of James, and he could spend your life in Mallorca relaxed
and happy.

Receive later news of the captain. Valls did not want to talk to everything was resolved.

Febrer shoulders moved to learn of these expectations. "Bah! All over ... "But the sad days of
winter, his resignation was stirring against the existence of mollusk
held in a shell of stone.

Was I going to live always? ... Was not it awkward to have locked in this corner, still having
to fight youth and vigor in the world? ...

Yes, it was a fumble. Very beautiful and romantic island shelter during the early months when the
sun shone, the trees were green and customs practiced on their island mind the bizarre charm
of novelty. But bad weather had come, the loneliness was intolerable, and the life of peasants
appeared to him with all the rudeness of their barbarous passions. Those peasants dressed in
blue velvet, with bands and colorful ties and flowers behind ears, had seemed at first created
only original figurines for an ornament to the fields, an operetta singers of pastoral languid
and sweet, but better known now, were like men, and men barbarians, in which the friction of
civilization had barely managed a slight polish, retaining all the angularity Cutting their
ancestral rudeness. Viewed from afar, for a short time the charm seduced of novelty, but he
had entered their customs, it was almost one of them, and he weighed
as a fall in this life than slavery, which clashed at every turn with
ideas and prejudices of the past.

Should move away from this environment, but where do you go? How do you escape? ... Was poor.
His entire capital consisted of a few dozen hard he had brought from his flight from Mallorca,
quantity that still retained by Pep, stubborn in its refusal to accept compensation. There should
remain, stuck to his tower like a cross, expecting nothing, wanting nothing, seeking the annulment
of his thought vegetative happiness like that of the Sabine Women
and tamarisk trees growing between the rocks of the promontory, or
clinging to the clams always submerged rocks.

After long reflection conformábase with their lot. Do not think, I would not want. Moreover, hope,
never abandons us confused doeth descry the possibility of something
extraordinary would be submitted on time for starting such a situation.

But while this was coming, how overwhelming solitude! ...

Pep and his family were his only family, but without realizing it,
obeying such After a confusing instinct increasingly moved away from
him.

Jaime were detained in isolation, and they remembered less of the Lord.

Margalida not long ago that appeared in the tower. Seemed to avoid any pretext for this trip,
and even dodged Febrer encounters. It was another: it would seem
that had aroused to a new existence.

The innocent smile and confident of puberty had turned into a Reserve gesture, as a woman
who knows the dangers of the road and walking with slow and cautious step.

Since I was the subject of courtship and the boys went to apply twice
a week festeig under traditional, seemed to have realized large and
unexpected dangers not previously suspected, and stood beside his
mother, avoiding any chance of seeing alone with a man, blushing just
a manly eyes crossed with theirs.

This was nothing extraordinary gallantry in the customs of the island, but nevertheless Febrer produced
in mute rage, as if he saw in it an attack and plunder. Invasion Can Mallorquí by atloteria
love bully and gazed as an insult.

Had considered the farm the same as if it were their house, but since these outsiders arrived and
were well received, he was leaving.

In addition, suffered in silence despite not being, like the early days, the only concern family.
Pep and his wife were still believing the lord and his brother Margalida revered as a powerful
being came from distant lands, to be Ibiza the best place on earth, but Despite this, other concerns
seemed to be reflected in their eyes.

The visit of so many atlots and modification that this had brought their customs made them less
caring with Don Jaime. All of them were concerned about the future. Who deserves to be the husband
finally Margalida? ...

During winter nights, Febrer, confined to his tower, looking a little
light shining their feet: Can Mallorquí.

There were nights festeig, the family should be alone, about home, but he stood firm in their isolation.
No, not go down. He complained in his defiance to bad weather, as if to make responsible for
the cold winter this change had been carried out slowly in their relationships with family
payesa.

Oh, the beautiful summer nights with your evenings that extended into the wee hours, watching the stars
tremble in the dark sky beyond the black edge of the porch! ... He sat Febrer under its roof with the family
and Uncle Guster, who came attracted by the hope of a gift. Never let him go without a slice
of watermelon, which filled the mouth the old with the sweet blood of red meat, or a fragrant cup
of fragrant herbs figola of Mt. Margalida, eyes on the mystery of
the stars, singing ballads Ibiza with child's voice, soft cooler,
Febrer heard the slight breeze that shivers peopled the blue fog of
night.

Pep had wonderful air its great browser adventures on land during the years he had served the king
as a soldier in the remote and almost fantastic country of Catalonia and Valencia.

The dog, crouched at his feet, seemed to listen, fixed his eyes on the love of soft gentleness
reflected at the bottom of a star. Incorporábase suddenly with a nervous impulse, and giving
disappeared leap in the dark, sonorous sound of vegetation between broken. Pep explained This
boot quiet. It was nothing, an animal that wandered and lost in the shadows a hare, a rabbit was sniffing
with his sensitive nostrils of hunting dogs. Sometimes slowly sat up, with grunts of watchful
hostility. Someone passing by near the farmhouse, a shadow, a man walking quickly, with the speed
of Ibiza, used to go quickly from side to side of the island. If
the shadow spoke, answered all his greeting.

When he passed quietly, pretending not to see, as it seemed that the dark wanderer not learn
of the existence of the farm and the people sitting on the porch.

Ibiza was ancient custom greeting in the open field not only closed the night. In paths crossed
the shadows without a word, avoiding the meeting to rub or not known. Everyone went to their business,
to see the bride, looking for the doctor to kill an opponent in the other end of the island
to run back and say that at the same time was with friends.

Everyone who walked during the night had reason to go unnoticed. Shadows feared the shadows. A
bona, nit! "Or a request for a cigarette fire could receive in reply a pistol.

Sometimes no one went to the farm, and yet the dog, moving the neck,
howled against the black void.

In the distance appeared to answer human howling. They were screaming long and wild that cut like
a war cry mysterious silence "!...» Auuú And much further weakened by distance, answered another
fierce exclamation: "Auuú !...»

The peasant was quiet your dog. There was nothing strange about these cries. Were atlots that
aucaban in the dark, guided by the sound of their cries to be recognized
and perhaps meet, perhaps to fight, being called a cry of defiance.

It was likely that after the aucamiento sounded a blast. Things young and the night! ... Adelante!
With the home team was not anything.

And Pep was the extraordinary account of his travels, under the astonished gaze of his wife,
I heard these wonders for the thousandth time, always new.

Uncle
    Guster, not to be outdone, told
    stories of pirates and
    sailors brave Ibiza, supporting
    the testimony of his father,
who had been a page in the felucca captain Riquer, raiding the hero
behind the frigate Happiness, the fearsome pirate "the Pope."

Excited by the heroic memories, sang with trembling voice the verses that the crew had celebrated
the triumph Ibiza, songs in Castilian, for greater solemnity, and the guy whose words disfigured
Guster.

/ * [4] Where are you, Papa brave man of such courage, that fear of death I hid in a drawer?
... * /

And the toothless mouth of the ocean was still singing the deeds of other times, as if datasen Yesterday,
as if they had witnessed, as if suddenly they were to fly above that earth wrapped in darkness
the flames of the towers watchtowers announcing a landing enemies.

Other times, her eyes shining with greed, he spoke of massive flows that the Moors Romans and
other red sailors, who called the mormandos, were buried in caves the coast, boarded later.
His grandparents know much about it. Too bad they died without saying a word! ... It told the true story
of the cave of Formentera, where the Normans had saved their products
piracy in Spain and Italy: holy golden chalices, chains, jewelry,
gems and coins measures bushels.

A terrible dragon, trained no doubt by the red men, watched at the bottom of the chasm with
the treasure under his belly. The rash that served as drop off the grass. Red sailors had died
many centuries, the dragon had also died, the treasure must be still
in Formentera.

Ay, Who could find it! ... And the rustic auditorium shook with emotion, without doubt the
existence of such wealth, the respect he felt for the narrator's old age.

Those placid evenings, which would not be repeated for Febrer! Not going at night a Can Mallo,
fearing their presence interfere with the family talks about Margalida of suitors.

On nights of experiencing more distress festeig, and without explaining why, asomábase at the
door of the tower, looking eagerly toward the farmhouse.

The same light, the appearance of forever, but he imagined hearing the silence of the night new
noises, echoes of songs, Margalida voice. There Ferrer would be the hateful, and sang that
poor devil, and all atlots barbaric and rude, with their ridiculous costumes. Great God! How
had they been able to like these farmers? ... With what he had seen in the world! ...

The next day, to raise the Chaplain to the tower to carry food to Don Jaime, the I asked him
questions about what happened in last night.

Listening to the boy, imagine all the accidents Febrer courtship. The family dinner fast in
the evening, to be ready for the ceremony. Margalida took down the roof fourth party skirt, and
then put it on, with red and green scarf crossed over chest, a smaller head and a long tape
loop to the end of the braid, We put the gold chain he had given
his mother, and went to sit on the abrigais, folded into a kitchen
chair.

The father smoked his pipe, snuff of drinking, the mother, corner, weaving reed baskets, the
Chaplain asomábase outdoors, under the broad porch, which would meet the atlots silent suitors.
Had that were there from an hour earlier, because neighbors had spotted
arriving dusty or clay, after walking two miles.

On rainy nights under the roof shook their hood of coarse shawls, inheritance from grandparents,
or the women's shawl that was wrapped as a token of modern elegance.

After agreeing briefly the order that would follow in his conversation with the girl, rival's
troops entered the kitchen, because in winter the porch a cold. A blow at the door.

- Avant qui continue! - Pep screaming as if unaware of the presence
of the suitors and was waiting for an extraordinary visit.

Came softly,
waving to the family. "Bona nit! Bona nit!" Were seated on a bench
as school children, or remained standing, looking at all the atlota.
Next to it was an empty chair, and when it was missing, the applicant
put in a squatting position, to use Moorish, talking to the girl quietly
for three minutes under the glare of his opponents. The lower short-term
extension of the coughs provoked, angry looks and claims threatening
a low voice. Atlot was withdrawn, and another for the post.

Betty turned to look at him curiously.

"Under circumstances such as these," he explained. "I learned to dance at a particularly hideous
boys' school in France. I abhorred it. And the trend of my life has made it quite easy for
me to keep my twelve-year-old vow that I would never dance after I left the place, unless I
WANTED to do it, and that, especially, nothing should make me waltz until certain agreeable
conditions were fulfilled. Waltzing I approved of--out of hideous schools. I was a pig-headed,
objectionable child. I detested myself even, then."

Betty's composure returned to her.

"I am trusting," she remarked, "that I may secretly regard myself as one of the agreeable conditions
to be fulfilled. Do not dispel my hopes roughly."

"I will not," he answered. "You are, in fact, several of them."

"One breathes with much greater freedom," she responded.

This sort of cool nonsense was safe. It dispelled feelings of tenseness, and carried them to
the place where Sir Nigel and Lady Anstruthers awaited them. A slight stir was beginning to
be felt throughout the ballroom. The royal guest was retiring, and soon the rest began to melt
away. The Anstruthers, who had a long return drive before them, were among those who went first.

When Lady Anstruthers and her sister returned from the cloak room, they found Sir Nigel standing
near Mount Dunstan, who was going also, and talking to him in an amiably detached manner. Mount
Dunstan, himself, did not look amiable, or seem to be saying much, but Sir Nigel showed no
signs of being disturbed.

"Now that you have ceased to forswear the world," he said as his wife approached, "I hope we
shall see you at Stornham. Your visits must not cease because we cannot offer you G. Selden
any longer."

He had his own reasons for giving the invitation--several of them. And there was a satisfaction
in letting the fellow know, casually, that he was not in the ridiculous position of being unaware
of what had occurred during his absence--that there had been visits--and also the objectionable
episode of the American bounder. That the episode had been objectionable, he knew he had adroitly
conveyed by mere tone and manner.

Mount Dunstan thanked him in the usual formula, and then spoke to Betty.

"G. Selden left us tremulous and fevered with ecstatic anticipation. He carried your kind letter
to Mr. Vanderpoel, next to his heart. His brain seemed to whirl at the thought of what 'the
boys' would say, when he arrived with it in New York. You have materialised the dream of his life!"

"I have interested my father," Betty answered, with a brilliant smile. "He liked the romance
of the Reuben S. Vanderpoel who rewarded the saver of his life by unbounded orders for the
Delkoff."

. . . . .

As their carriage drove away, Sir Nigel bent forward to look out of the window, and having
done it, laughed a little.

"Mount Dunstan does not play the game well," he remarked.

It was annoying that neither Betty nor his wife inquired what the game in question might be,
and that his temperament forced him into explaining without encouragement.

"He should have 'stood motionless with folded arms,' or something of the sort, and 'watched
her equipage until it was out of sight.'"

"And he did not?" said Betty

"He turned on his heel as soon as the door was shut."

"People ought not to do such things," was her simple comment. To which it seemed useless to reply.

CHAPTER XXXIII

FOR LADY JANE

There is no one thing on earth of such interest as the study of the laws of temperament, which
impel, support, or entrap into folly and danger the being they rule. As a child, not old enough
to give a definite name to the thing she watched and pondered on, in child fashion, Bettina
Vanderpoel had thought much on this subject. As she had grown older, she had never been ignorant
of the workings of her own temperament, and she had looked on for years at the laws which had
wrought in her father's being--the laws of strength, executive capacity, and that pleasure
in great schemes, which is roused less by a desire for gain than for a strongly-felt necessity
for action, resulting in success. She mentally followed other people on their way, sometimes
asking herself how far the individual was to be praised or blamed for his treading of the path
he seemed to choose. And now there was given her the opportunity to study the workings of the
nature of Nigel Anstruthers, which was a curious thing.

He was not an individual to be envied. Never was man more tormented by lack of power to control
his special devil, at the right moment of time, and therefore, never was there one so inevitably
his own frustration. This Betty saw after the passing of but a few days, and wondered how far
he was conscious or unconscious of the thing. At times it appeared to her that he was in a
state of unrest--that he was as a man wavering between lines of action, swayed at one moment
by one thought, at another by an idea quite different, and that he was harried because he could
not hold his own with himself.

This was true. The ball at Dunholm Castle had been enlightening, and had wrought some changes
in his points of view. Also other factors had influenced him. In the first place, the changed
atmosphere of Stornham, the fitness and luxury of his surroundings, the new dignity given to
his position by the altered aspect of things, rendered external amiability more easy. To ride
about the country on a good horse, or drive in a smart phaeton, or suitable carriage, and to
find that people who a year ago had passed him with the merest recognition, saluted him with
polite intention, was, to a certain degree, stimulating to a vanity which had been long ill-fed.
The power which produced these results should, of course, have been in his own hands--his money-making
father-in-law should have seen that it was his affair to provide for that--but since he had
not done so, it was rather entertaining that it should be, for the present, in the hands of
this extraordinarily good-looking girl.

He had begun by merely thinking of her in this manner--as "this extraordinarily good-looking
girl," and had not, for a moment, hesitated before the edifying idea of its not being impossible
to arrange a lively flirtation with her. 

Ojeda watched the "doktor" with some astonishment. America was hired by a government to give
lessons in chemistry at the university in the country. Enjoyed some popularity in the laboratory from
their homeland ... And was there holding the enjabonaduras and antics of the barber, shuddering under
the dashes of black, without knowing the grotesque of a situation that had angered others, perhaps
pleased to contribute to the delight of the crowd weary of the monotony Ocean. Christening the trumpet
sounded, and the "Doktor" splashed in the pool, defending of the handfuls of black ridiculous myopic
stunning, majestic by the importance which gave the act and the seriousness with which walked away
dripping dirty clothes and beards After regaining his glasses.

Continued the party with visible decay of curiosity. People marched ship: cabin boys making their first
trip, firemen long navigation to the northern seas had not been in the South. And managers
take extra baptism jokes confianzuda brutality in their heads shaved and naked torsos of those
who were his peers.

Ojeda, during the long ceremony, he had looked many times at the castle practicable balcony
Central Maud expecting to see the ladies leaning out to them. But the U.S. remained invisible. Finally,
when there were no longer neophytes and the grotesque characters were going to retire, preceded
by music, was at one end of the viewpoint of the promenade deck, hidden behind Mrs. Lowe,
looming over his shoulder this the forehead and eyes, you need to see. Fernando thought maybe
Maud watched him for hours without realizing it this, and it caused him some annoyance.

He separated from his friend to go running to the upper floors of the ship, and before heard them
breaking music playing a march. The procession moved toward neptunesco den terrace, where they
would be baptized ladies. People left the practicable balcony to run the latter site.

Near the winter garden he found with Maud, who was walking between spouses Lowe. Crossed a greeting,
and instantly Ojeda experienced a feeling of strangeness. Mrs. Power seemed another woman. Almost
felt like to ask for forgiveness, as he is wrong to confuse a stranger with a friend. She nodded
with a smile insignificant greeted him like any other passenger. His eyes were fixed on hers quietly,
without the slightest hint of embarrassment, as if there were no other relationships between
the ordinary in the common life on board.

They talked about the four of baptism, and the Herculean Lowe said the incidents. Mr. Maltrana
had not wanted to be left baptized. Why? ... He had crossed the line several times, paying always
at the ceremony. In the Goethe also have offered not to oppose the lady. A fun party. But Mr.
Maltrana, I was afraid ... Oh! Oh! Oh! And laughed, showing the luenga teeth inlaid with gold.

All
walked to the cafe terrace to witness the ceremony of baptism female.

Mrs. Lowe, with the instinct of solidarity guess that makes every woman the right moment to
help a friend, stood clutching the arm of Maud, standing between her and Fernando.

He searched in vain for a slight smile, a look of intelligence.

In need of comfort, praise Maud inside the discretion of the race easy to master, hiding their impressions.
"What good fakes! ... No one would guess what's between us ... "but makes to the memory of
the painful scene in front of the cabin door. Trembled in his hearing the echo of the male voice
almost hoarse with anger ... And with sad humility search sought to explain his conduct something
this evil. "But what I have, Lord? What I could offend ?...»

Neptune, in the middle of the terrace with his entourage proceeded
to the christening of the passengers.

They occupied several rows of benches, as in a school, and every time you lift a to receive
the lustral water, the musicians threw their long tubes of copper a roar trumpets of war scenes
similar to Wagner.

God had removed gallantly dive in sea water. He held in one hand a large spray bottle filled
with perfume, and sprinkle with reverent heads: one, blond and ruffling in the wind, sometimes
glossy black, studded by the brightness of combs. All the joy of the ceremony lay in the names that
would impose divinity their catechumens to approving murmurs or general laughter.

The imagination of the butler and waiters in some letters he had given all his juice to flatter
the passengers with the names of starfish, pink Ocean, zephyr Ecuador, etc. The old ladies were
nymph, nymph Atlantic, Naiad, which made flushed back to their seats, with the double chin quivering,
including approving murmurs and somewhat ironic competition. With his fellow Germans were allowed
good innocent jokes to the delight of the audience. A weak left at his baptism with the designation
of "sardines", another obese was called "Triton."

Maud seemed to get tired of this ceremony. I looked everywhere, but avoiding his eyes meet with
Fernando. A passenger approached the ladies with the cap in hand and gallant air, just as if
it were offered to a dance.

- When you want ... The table is prepared in the classroom.

Munster was inviting them to a game of bridge. Tenacity finally triumphed. Had found playmates in
those three Americans, convincing them an hour earlier, while witnessed
the christening ceremony.

Maud gladly accepted the invitation, as if the bridge was a good excuse to withdraw from importunate
presence.

He walked away with his friends after an indifferent greeting Fernando,
and he saw her walk without turning his head, without a hint of hesitation
and regret.

Here again one felt sorry for her fault she did not know was, but justified this conduct inexplicable.
"What have I done, Lord? ... What have I done ?...»

With the abject humility of all love in disgrace, was a little while
after her, despite of suggestions of a false energy advised him haughty
and indifferent.

His legs carried him with an irresistible impulse to the vicinity of the room, and looked at Maud
with the cards in hand, frowning and looking hard at their playmates.

By lifting her eyes, saw Fernando framed by the window, staring fixedly and made a gesture of
anger, just as if he were confronted with something which shook his nerves and broke his patience.
Fernando fled, suffering the same feeling as if just received a blow on the back ... He doubted
the reality of the facts and even his own person. Would dreaming? ... Would his invention memories
of the night? ...

He wandered around the ship, one deck to another, to find Isidro coffee on the terrace. It
was not in it any trace of the feast of the baptism means passengers
had spread.

Maltrana seemed infuriated by the excesses and hardships of their popularity. I could not circulate
the ship without his many dear friends will go out to step with an
air of protest.

The ladies seemed inconsolable. Why had not ceased to baptize? As interesting would have been
the show! ...

- As if I were a monkey, Ojeda friend ... as if I had shipped to make people laugh ... Believe
me, I feel the sadness of a great man convinced of the ingratitude of his people.

And after this statement, accompanied by a comical gesture, Isidro turned to lean against the
railing, looking at northern migrants huddled down in the square stern.

- For a while I'm here to remind mariners of bygone centuries and their views on virtues of the equator. Do
not you remember you ...

The first sailors who had gone to the other hemisphere gave assured that in line dying every
harboring parasites in the bodies of the sailors and the cracks ships. And this belief was not
only the Spanish explorers, French and The British also adopted,
becoming for many years a universal truth.

- Past the Azores - Maltrana
said - began to depopulate the bloodthirsty beasts the heads and beards
of the crew, and get to the line there was one to remember.

This s kind of uncomfortable was not so exclusive property of one people or another. All those
in Europe equally possessed, and even enjoyed the pleasure of kings and entertainment rascuñón hunting
in the dark. Imagine what would those small vessels with crews wood piles and corroded by all
sorts of nasty bugs ... How to reach heat line was that the sailors were going about half naked
and take advantage of long calm giving baths, this momentary hygiene exterminate the fierce companions,
justifying the belief that dying for lack of acclimatization to move from one hemisphere to another.

The
bloodthirsty tiger from the jungles capillaries, carnivorous beast jumping on the tops and hollows
in the folds of clothing, had figured for centuries as an interesting
character in many literary works.

Cervantes laughed at him and his feigned death in the limit of two hemispheres to tell "the adventure
of the enchanted boat," when Don Quixote and his squire floated on the Ebro in a boat without
a paddle ... The champion dreamer believed to be a few minutes navigation
near the equator, and to convince, recommended to seek Sancho on their
clothes to see if there was "something"

... "Something and even somethings" answered the squire sly picking his chest.

- I thought this friend Ojeda, looking at the respectable patriarchs going down with fur greatcoat
despite the heat.

"Something and even somethings." For those, the line has lost Under its former ... Look at them:
scratch to scratch! ...

He pointed to some immigrants who watched the Ocean thoughtfully, as figures hieratic priestly
majesty, wrapped in robes Luengas while his fingers hooked walked
by the beard, sunk under the skin, or advancing cap in the folds and
folds of the breast.

- Let's go - Ojeda said nervously, as if you
do not inspire confidence that the height separated from these characters.

Noticed

when walking along the deck the shortage of ladies. Some that were shown for brief times they
seemed preoccupied with the search for something important.

Then disappeared, as if an idea they have bought a new or modified data that your bad mood.

-
They are preparing for the party tonight - said Maltrana -.

Great dance costumes and during the meal masquerades as baptism.

The day continued with an overwhelming monotony. Still bright on the horizon the last solar fires,
when the trumpets announced the banquet.

The flags, wreaths of roses, all the trappings of great colorful festivals, adorned the dining room.
No service began were occupied many of the tables.

Many passengers remained in the breakfast area to enjoy before the other of the announced news.

Ladies
retarded entry, with the hope that their costumes achieve greater success. Expected, as well as
actresses, that the room had good audience, and their maids or men of the family were in the
cabin to the dining room to look around and come back with news. Each family wanted the others were
in front, and let time pass without a decision.

They were passengers in the third course, when they began to present the costume, all at once.
Blushing welcomed the applause and shouts of enthusiasm, and so went
to their seats escorted by the family.

Passed among the tables Russian ladies high diadem and robes rigid, often Nipponese of walking;
polonaises dolmanes rimmed with white fur, sailor tempting youth packed their prominence in a
white robe given by a boy.

- Ollé! Ollé! ... Carmen!

Was Conchita, white blanket, short skirts and large movements of range, he entered, Dona Zobeida
protected by smiling, motherly face of this triumph.

The men were also on the masquerade. Many did not have another nose disguise cardboard or crepe
whiskers, keeping them though hindered their food. Some appeared with big hat, poncho on the
shoulders and spurs, it did resonate belligerently. Color were eager to local brokers, who
claimed to be dressed as gauchos of the Pampas Chilean or broken.

- Ah, gaucho cute! Tigre! - Exclaimed with mock enthusiasm American boys -. Ah, rotito! ... Huaso
funny!

...

And the masks, resting her hand on the old knife or kitchen knife carrying the belt to "be more
in character," smiled grateful.

- Ich danke ... Grasias Mochas.

Some ate between sweat of fear, disguised as dervishes bed blankets. A German major had put the life
jacket that kept all cabin as a precaution regulations. Locked up like a crustacean in this
shell of cork, kept away from the table because of the volume of
its container, having to make a journey every time his hands were
on the plates in their mouths.

A mock astonishment greeted him with loud applause, and satisfied with this triumph, endured
martyrdom, being the first to admire his prodigious inventive.

The maids of luxury cabins ranging from table to table, dressed in peasant Tirol, giving flowers.
Other servants, hawkers dressed in German, offering goodies that were in a drawer on the chest.
A painted black boy with the help descolgábase a rope through the skylight that connected the music
room with dining room, and proclaimed, in the style of newspaper
vendors, the Aequator Zeitung newspaper is printed on board the press
that was used for the printing of menus and lists of passengers.

The tiny leaf repeated on every trip the same jokes and poems dedicated to the passage of the
line. The butler, standing at the entrance to the dining room, coat stand with brass buttons, seemed to
preside over the banquet, smiling modestly, as if grateful for the congratulations of the audience
silent for good Under the party.

On the tables elevábanse multicolored cones pyramids with surprises. Threw their diners ends, producing
an explosive burst, and emerged wrappers tiny ornaments, butterflies and flowers chiffon, tiny
flags, paper hats. It adorned the breasts of the ladies with these brilliant baubles, all smoking
flap looked like a badge of national flag carrier. Cubríanse heads with the tissue paper hats, combs
of birds, mitres Asian, clown hats, contrasting grotesquely with the gesture avid eaters. 

After
grilling the waiter disappeared, and all the lights went out at once. This resulted in complete
darkness, after a silence of surprise, shouts and whistles. The malicious mimicked in darkness
smacking kisses, others raised howls of animals. But DIN was short-lived.

It sounded far away the music and lights twinkled in red and green breakfast room, a line of
lanterns carried aloft by the waiters. This glow, muffled by the glass colors, discreetly lit
with soft light.

It was the "march of the torch" of any party German. The passengers, attracted by the music
began to beat time with their knives, plates and glasses. And among the general ringing, almost
drowned out the sounds instruments, the procession paraded: the drum major leading the band,
all the servants carrying lanterns, the waitresses dressed as flower girls, and a large number
of animals bears, dogs and lions, waiters in good faith, sweating
under the fur lining and moved from side to side their heads roaring
or barking cardboard.

Two men supported one another invisible marching under a shell that mimicked the leathery skin
of an elephant, moving between tables serpentine monster's trunk and ears of a fan. Other waiters
came after holding light dishes, large platters inside which elevábanse
ice cream castles in the shape of birds or houses, all under cloches
various colors and with a candle in the center.

Several young ladies brought up the rear of big hat, blonde hair loose, who smiled men shamelessly
sending kisses.

They were escorting three matrons of honor arms beautiful and majestic walk, white robes and
red cap on purple wavy black tresses. They are recognized by color and heraldic motifs of
mantles: the Republic of Brazil, the Republic of Uruguay and Argentina.

This appearance was circulated among the passengers a surprise move, anxiety, and if all at
once felt the lash of desire. Where had been hidden until then those
good girls?

...

Munster required his glasses to better appreciate the novelty.

Isidro, who claimed to know all of the ship, joined amazed ... Where did these girls? ... Were higher
in its slender fresh and lasts all flabby and waitresses serving size square on the ship.

But
the bold look of one of those beauties who danced to the three republics
and the kiss that sent him to the fingertips made suddenly recognize
Maltrana his face hidden behind the undulating curls and rouge and
powder coating of rice.

- Christ!

If you are the steward of my room! ...

He admired some diffuse light lanterns and strutting forms these efebos
Blond shaved white meat, as well as his ability to transform.

- Anyone
recognize them in the morning cleaning the cabins, shaking beds and
manage wastewater pots ... Look, Ojeda, who makes no mistakes?

... Now I understand everything.

The troupe moved effeminate among the tables, followed by the astonishment of the ladies and the
bold burlesque of men.

Some of them jumped the compliment to the action, pinching the way to the unruly girls, who responded
with shrieks of fear and modest splashes.

Suddenly ignited the ceiling lights, masks and animals fled as a coven surprised by sunrise, and
only stayed in the dining room with waiters ice trays, starting with the deal.

Ojeda had looked several times a nearby table where he ate alone Mrs. Power. She was dressed
with great elegance and the pale flesh of his neck sparkled more
brightly.

- It seems worried - Isidro had said at the beginning of
the meal -.

Is undoubtedly a bad mood. Do not look at you, Ojeda, as usual. Is it no longer friends? ...

Food passed without Fernando managed to find their eyes with the U.S.. She looked around with
a distracted air, and avoid putting your eyes on the table nearby.

After the parade, when the general joy was talking to one group against another, the gifts of
Munster made him turn his head toward the neighbors. The jeweler, with mellow courtesy, lifted
his glass of champagne in honor of the lady. Maud answered with a nod, also raising his glass,
and not to seem inattentive, repeated movement and then watching Isidro Ojeda. Not the slightest
emotion in his eyes clear and cold. A courtesy and nothing more.

Munster,
proud of the friendship that bound him to the lady on the occasion
of the bridge, asked to resume the game. Before the ball could make
a new start in the music room: Lowe husbands were willing ... She
shook her head with an expression of weariness. No know what to say
... Maybe later decided to accept ... I was fatigued.

Fernando glared
at her companion. But this old colored by what stood between him and
Maud with his damn bridge? ... He thought he saw in him a certain
expression of petulance, the pride in their budding friendship with
the lady who had only been set at Ojeda ... There would be no bridge:
Fernando swore inside. Maud was dressed elegantly to attend the dance,
and would not end the night without the two they had an explanation.

"Oh, Tommy," giving up, "it's no use--talking at all."

"You mustn't think--you mustn't think--ANYTHING," he falteringly commanded, drawing nearer,
because it was impossible not to do it.

What he really meant, though he did not know how decorously to say it, was that she must not
think that he could be moved by any tall beauty, towards the splendour of whose possessions
his revered grandmother might be driving him.

"I am not thinking anything," cried Jane in answer. "But she is everything, and I am nothing.
Just look at her--and then look at me, Tommy."

"I'll look at you as long as you'll let me," gulped Tommy, and he was boy enough and man enough
to put a hand on each of her shoulders, and drown his longing in her brimming eyes.

. . . . .

Mary and Miss Vanderpoel were talking with a curious intimacy, in another part of the garden,
where they were together alone, Sir Nigel having been reattached to Lady Alanby.

"You have known Sir Thomas a long time?" Betty had just said.

"Since we were children. Jane reminded me at the Dunholms' ball that she had played cricket
with him when she was eight."

"They have always liked each other?" Miss Vanderpoel suggested.

Mary looked up at her, and the meeting of their eyes was frank to revelation. But for the clear
girlish liking for herself she saw in Betty Vanderpoel's, Mary would have known her next speech
to be of imbecile bluntness. She had heard that Americans often had a queer, delightful understanding
of unconventional things. This splendid girl was understanding her.

"Oh! You SEE!" she broke out. "You left them together on purpose!"

"Yes, I did." And there was a comprehension so deep in her look that Mary knew it was deeper
than her own, and somehow founded on some subtler feeling than her own. "When two people want
so much--care so much to be together," Miss Vanderpoel added quite slowly--even as if the words
rather forced themselves from her, "it seems as if the whole world ought to help them--everything
in the world--the very wind, and rain, and sun, and stars--oh, things have no RIGHT to keep
them apart."

Mary stared at her, moved and fascinated. She scarcely knew that she caught at her hand.

"I have never been in the state that Jane is," she poured forth. "And I can't understand how
she can be such a fool, but--but we care about each other more than most girls do--perhaps
because we have had no people. And it's the kind of thing there is no use talking against,
it seems. It's killing the youngness in her. If it ends miserably, it will be as if she had
had an illness, and got up from it a faded, done-for spinster with a stretch of hideous years
to live. Her blue eyes will look like boiled gooseberries, because she will have cried all
the colour out of them. Oh! You UNDERSTAND! I see you do."

Before she had finished both Miss Vanderpoel's hands were holding hers.

"I do! I do," she said. And she did, as a year ago she had not known she could. "Is it Lady
Alanby?" she ventured.

"Yes. Tommy will be helplessly poor if she does not leave him her money. And she won't if he
makes her angry. She is very determined. She will leave it to an awful cousin if she gets in
a rage. And Tommy is not clever. He could never earn his living. Neither could Jane. They could
NEVER marry. You CAN'T defy relatives, and marry on nothing, unless you are a character in a book."

"Has she liked Lady Jane in the past?" Miss Vanderpoel asked, as if she was, mentally, rapidly
going over the ground, that she might quite comprehend everything.

"Yes. She used to make rather a pet of her. She didn't like me. She was taken by Jane's meek,
attentive, obedient ways. Jane was born a sweet little affectionate worm. Lady Alanby can't
hate her, even now. She just pushes her out of her path."

"Because?" said Betty Vanderpoel.

Mary prefaced her answer with a brief, half-embarrassed laugh.

"Because of YOU."

"Because she thinks----?"

"I don't see how she can believe he has much of a chance. I don't think she does--but she will
never forgive him if he doesn't make a try at finding out whether he has one or not."

"It is very businesslike," Betty made observation.

Mary laughed.

"We talk of American business outlook," she said, "but very few of us English people are dreamy
idealists. We are of a coolness and a daring--when we are dealing with questions of this sort.
I don't think you can know the thing you have brought here. You descend on a dull country place,
with your money and your looks, and you simply STAY and amuse yourself by doing extraordinary
things, as if there was no London waiting for you. Everyone knows this won't last. Next season
you will be presented, and have a huge success. You will be whirled about in a vortex, and
people will sit on the edge, and cast big strong lines, baited with the most glittering things
they can get together. You won't be able to get away. Lady Alanby knows there would be no chance
for Tommy then. It would be too idiotic to expect it. He must make his try now."

Their eyes met again, and Miss Vanderpoel looked neither shocked nor angry, but an odd small
shadow swept across her face. Mary, of course, did not know that she was thinking of the thing
she had realised so often--that it was not easy to detach one's self from the fact that one
was Reuben S. Vanderpoel's daughter. As a result of it here one was indecently and unwillingly
disturbing the lives of innocent, unassuming lovers.

"And so long as Sir Thomas has not tried--and found out--Lady Jane will be made unhappy?"

"If he were to let you escape without trying, he would not be forgiven. His grandmother has
had her own way all her life."

"But suppose after I went away someone else came?"

Mary shook her head.

"People like you don't HAPPEN in one neighbourhood twice in a lifetime. I am twenty-six and
you are the first I have seen."

"And he will only be safe if?"

Mary Lithcom nodded.

"Yes--IF," she answered. "It's silly--and frightful--but it is true."

Miss Vanderpoel looked down on the grass a few moments, and then seemed to arrive at a decision.

"He likes you? You can make him understand things?" she inquired.

"Yes."

"Then go and tell him that if he will come here and ask me a direct question, I will give him
a direct answer--which will satisfy Lady Alanby."

Lady Mary caught her breath.

"Do you know, you are the most wonderful girl I ever saw!" she exclaimed. "But if you only
knew what I feel about Janie!" And tears rushed into her eyes.

"I feel just the same thing about my sister," said Miss Vanderpoel. The things he had seen in the world! ... Y Now
his words about the bride unmoved ancient credulity, making smiling slightly, while looking with superstitious
fear the great lady of the past that only was a head. When the man said that! It was so special
all yours! ...

When climbing the tower Febrer sat near the door, looking across the landscape of earth in
to be ruled from this hole. At the foot of the hill extendíanse some fields recently plowed. They
were pieces of mountain property Febrer that Pep was becoming arable land. Beyond almond plantations
began, with its foliage a fresh green, and the aged and gnarled olive trees that spread their dark
wood with clusters silvery gray leaves. The house, Can Mallo, was a home near Arab, a group
square construction as given, flat roofs and dazzling white. As increased and expansion needs of the
family, raising new buildings were white. Each was given a room, and together they formed a home
that looked more like a horde, not guessing what served outside in the life of the inhabitants
and what for beasts of labor.

Can extendíanse beyond the trees, divided by dry stone walls, and terraces high embankment. The
winds of the island did not allow the rise of the trees, and trees spread their branches around
them with an exuberant verbosity, winning the rebound losing height. All the branches retained
supported by many forks. Some figs came to have hundreds of bras, and spread like a huge green
tent intended to shelter a dream of giants. Arbors were natural, in which he could hide almost
a village. The bottom of the horizon was closed by mountains covered with pine trees with large
bald red earth. Among the dark canopy of smoke rose. The fires were of loggers who manufactured charcoal.

Febrer
was three months on the island. His arrival was amazed to Pep Arabi, still occupied to tell relatives
and friends for their great adventure, his unprecedented audacity,
the recent trip to Mallorca with atlots, stay in Palma a few hours,
and his visit to the palace of Febrer, guarding enchanted place in
the world as may exist in an elegant and luxurious.

The rude statements unless the peasant Jaime amazed.

- Pep, I'm ruined, you are rich if you compare me.

I come to live in the tower ... no know how long. Maybe forever.

He went into the details of installation, while air Pep smiled incredulously. Ruined! ... All the
great lords said the same, and what they could spare them in their misfortune could many poor
people become rich. They were like ships that ran aground in Formentera before the government
put headlights. The formenterinos, and left people without God's law - being an island smaller
-, lit fires to deceive the sailors, and when the ship was lost for them, not lost to the Islanders,
as his remains were many rich.

Poor a Febrer! ... Refused to accept the money offered Don Jaime. He was to cultivate lands that
were the Lord, and would settle accounts. And when his commitment to occupy the tower, Pep worked
to make it habitable, also ordered their children to bring food to
Mr the days he did not want to sit down at your table.

These three months have been for James of rustic isolation, or write a letter, or open a newspaper,
book or know more than half a dozen volumes he had brought from Palma. The city of Ibiza, a quiet
and sleepy inland village on the Peninsula, it seemed a remote capital. Mallorca should not already exist,
nor the great cities he had visited. In the first month of this new life, an extraordinary event
disturbed his peaceful tranquility. Got a letter, a statement on letterhead from a cafe in
the terminal and a few lines of lyrics thick and defective. Toni Clapp who was writing. She wanted
him congratulations on your new life. In Palma all still the same. Pablo Valls wrote because I was
not angry with him. Leaving without notice! ... But it was a good
friend and was engaged in unraveling their affairs.

Was for this diabolical skill. Finally, chueta! ... And give him more news.

After two months had passed without another letter came luckily. What mattered him the news of
a world that was not going back?

... Certainly did not know what was reserved the future: there had arrived and there was no
other pleasures as hunting and fishing animal enjoying a pleasure
not to have more ideas and desires that of primitive man.

Stood apart from the Ibiza life, without mixing in their habits. He was a man among the farmers,
an outsider. Those treated him respectfully, but with a cold respect.

The traditional life of these people, rude and a little ferocious, he was attracted to the strength
of all that is special and strong contours. The island, left to its own forces, she had to be faced
in centuries the Norman pirates at Mariners Arabs, to the galleys of Castile, Aragon state enemy,
the ships of the republics Italian ships to the Turks, Tunisians and Algerians, and English
pirates in times Most recent. Formentera, uninhabited for centuries, having been the granary
of the Roman served as a refuge treacherous hostile fleets. The village churches were even true
strengths with strong towers, where the farmers to find refuge from the fires that landed enemies.
The eventful life of constant danger and endless struggle had created a population accustomed
to bloodshed, to defend their rights weapons in hand. The farmers and fishermen of this, shut
up in their island, they had still the same mentality and customs
of their grandparents.

The people did not exist. Villages were scattered over many miles, without any kernel that the church
and the houses of healing and mayor.

The only town was the capital, called in ancient documents "Real
Fuerza Ibiza ', with its quarter adjacent to the Navy.

When a atlot reached puberty, his father called him into the kitchen of the farmhouse in the presence
the whole family.

- You are a man - he declared solemnly.

And he did deliver a sturdy knife blade. The knight atlot lost its shrinkage subsidiary. Hereinafter
defend himself, without seeking the protection of his family. Then to raise some money, completing
his harness paladinescos buying a pistol with ornaments of silver
to the smiths of the country, who had his forge in the forest.

Strengthened by the contact of these two testimonies of male citizens, who did not abandon
long as he lived, were supplemented by other atlots equally equipped, and began to he young and loving
life: di serenades accompanied neighing, dances, excursions to the parishes that celebrated the
feast of its patron saint, where he enjoyed accurate throwing the rooster with stones, and
especially festeigs, traditional processions, the search of a bride, custom, the most respectable
of all, which gave rise to quarrels and deaths.

On the island there were thieves. Isolated houses in the countryside retained many times key in
the door while the owners were absent.

The men were not killed for reasons interest. The enjoyment of the soil was very divided, and the mild
climate and the frugality of the people meant that they were generous and little attachment to
material goods. Love, only love drove men to kill. The rustic gentlemen were passionate in their
predilections and fatal jealousy, as heroes of romance. For an eye atlota black and brown hands
were sought and provoked in the dark of night with neighing Challenge, is by far aucaban before
coming to blows.

The modern gun emits only a projectile with each shot seemed insufficient, and added a handful cartridge
of gunpowder and a bullet, attacking everything hard. If the gun did not burst in their hands,
the assailant was sure his opponent to dust.

The courtship lasted for months and years. The peasant who had a dating age atlota saw presented
the boys of the district and other districts of the island, as all
had Ibiza equal right to apply.

The father appreciated the number of suitors. Ten fifteen, twenty, sometimes thirty. Then calculate
the time that was available in evening before we surrender the dream, and taking into account
the number of applicants, divided as many minutes each.

As the night went by going down different paths of the procession, some in groups, singing accompanied
by whinnying and clucks, some lonely, rattling in his mouth bimbau zoom, an instrument consisting
of two plates of iron that growled like a Bumblebee and made them forget the fatigue of travel.
They came from far away. The walking was three hours on the way and many others around, going from
one extreme to another on the island, Thursdays and Saturdays, days of courtship, three minutes
to speak with a atlota.

They sat in the summer in the porchu, a sort of porch of the farmhouse, and went into the kitchen
if it was winter. Motionless on a stone bench they expected the girl.

He had stripped the straw hat with long ribbons, which gave him hours of sun a pastor air operetta;
wore the costume party, green or blue skirt tiny folds, which kept the rest a week squeezed between strings
and hanging from the ceiling to retain intact its fold. Under other skirts and it had other, eight,
ten or a dozen petticoats, all women's clothing house, a solid funnel cloths and mops that erased
the vestiges of sex and made impossible to imagine the existence of a carnal reality under the
heap of fabrics. Rows bright filigree buttons on the sleeves of my jacket plate. On his chest,
rolled by a brace nun who was like iron, shining triple gold chain with huge links. Below
scarf covering her head hung a thick braid finishing tape. On the bench, serving as a tapestry
strongly that seemed bulky like balloons for the great bulk of the skirts, was the abrigais,
the women's winter clothing.

Deliberating the applicants for the good order of the procession, and one after another were
to sit atlota next to the minutes talking to her marked. If any, emboldened by the conversation,
forgot peers, passing the time, they noticed it with coughs, looks
angry and threatening words.

If they insisted, the strongest of the band to grab an arm, him away for another take his place.
Sometimes, when the suitors were many and time was pressing, the atlota talking to two at
a time, making efforts skill not to give preference to one over the other ... So the courtship
continued until she expressed its preference for a atlot, regardless of the wishes of their parents.
In This short springtime of her life, she was queen. Then, on marriage, cultivated land her husband
and was little more than a beast.

The despised atlots withdrew when they felt no great interest in the girl, moving his love a few
leagues beyond, but if they were truly in love, still lurking the house, and had preferred to fight
with their old rivals, miraculously reaching the marriage by knives and guns.

The gun was like a second language of Ibiza. On sunday let go dancing shots love to show excitement.
Leaving the farm of the bride, to give it and your family a token of appreciation, fired a shot to
transpose the door and shouted then: "Bona nit!" If, however, retired hurt and the family wanted
to infer a serious injury, reversed the terms, first giving goodnight
and trigger gun later, but in this case was to go immediately to full
speed, because the house Then answered the declaration of war by other
shots or sticks and stones.

James lived on the edge of the harsh life and traditional customs watching from afar of Douar
still remained in the apartment of the island. Spain, whose flag flew all Sunday on the village
declined in each parish, only memory of this piece was of soil lost at sea. Many distant lands
were in communication Oceania more common with the great human nucleus
to the island, destroyed at other times by war and rapine, and now
miserable being away from the path of large ships, enclosed in a belt
of islets, rocks and low, between inlets and channels whose crystal
clear waters the sea bed.

Febrer felt in this new existence, the pleasure of occupying comfortable place to attend an
interesting spectacle. Those farmers and fishermen, bellicose grandchildren privateers were
to him co-existence welcome. Intended to contemplate from afar, as a control peculiar, but
slowly their customs had seized him, dragged to same habits of life.

He had no enemies, and yet, on trips around the island when not carrying the gun on his shoulder,
hid a gun in his belt ... case.

In the early days of his stay in the tower, as the needs of the facility will forced to go to
town, he kept his suit, but gradually dispensed with the tie, the collar, boots. Did you prefer
hunting shirt and corduroy pants the peasants.

Fishing fond you go barefoot in espadrilles beaches and cliffs. A hat like the one used all the
parish atlots San Jose covered his head.

Pep's daughter, knowing the customs of the island, admiring some appreciation hat sir. The men
in the various paddocks that divided the former Ibiza could be distinguished from each other
by way of taking the hat and the shape of their wings, unlike imperceptible
for which land was not.

The Don Jaime was identical to that of all atlots of San José and differed from those used by
residents of other towns, all with names of saints. The parish honored that she was the daughter.

Naive
and Margalida funny!

Febrer enjoyed talking with her, enjoying the wonder stories from other lands and their jokes,
those with serious gesture, awakened in his soul simple ...

Would soon bring the food.

Half an hour ago that a thin column of smoke hung over Can Mallorquí
fireplace.

He pictured the daughter of Pep stewing, pacing along home, followed
by the look of the mother, unhappy and silent payesa clumsiness, not
dared to lay hands on things of the Lord.

From time to time would see it appear under the sunshade of porchu leading into your home arm
carrying the picnic basket and its miraculous white face, the sun only slight patina gilded
with antique ivory, a straw hat with long ribbons.

Someone moved under the shadow created by undertaking the march to
the tower.

It was Margalida! ... No, it was not her. She wore pants. It was his brother Pepet ... Pepet,
who lived in Ibiza a month before preparing for seminary, and that
people had given it the nickname of the Chaplain.

II

- Bon tengui days! ...

Pepet spread a napkin on one side of the table and put on her two covered dishes and a bottle
of wine grape that had the color and transparency of the ruby. Then he sat on the ground, covering
her knees with her arms, and lay still. The light ivory his teeth shone on the brown face smiling.
His mischievous eyes fijábanse in man with an expression of happy and loyal dog.

- But you were not in Ibiza to be a priest? - Asked Jaime while attacking the food.

The boy shook his head. Yes, sir, it was. His father had entrusted
to a teacher Seminar.

Where Did Don Jaime was the seminar? ...

Small peasant spoke of him as a remote place of torture. No trees, no freedom air or just:
life was not possible at the closure.

Febrer, hearing, recalled his visit to the upper town, the royal fortress of Ibiza, population dead,
separated from the Marina district by a great wall the time of Philip
II, the interstices of sandstone covered with undulating greens and
caper. Statues Headless Romans in three niches decorated the door
connecting the city to the suburbs. Further, the winding streets began
to climb steeply to the summit, occupied by the cathedral and the
castle blue stone floors, the center ran by sloping the filth; crisp
white facades, under the whitewash will clear coats of arms and the
work of old windows, a graveyard silence of the sea, interrupted only
by the distant sound of the surf and the hum of flies piling up in
the gutter. From time to time, steps on the pavement of these streets,
Moorish and windows are opened with the eager curiosity of a special
event, some soldiers coming up slowly the castle on the steep slopes,
the canons coming down from the choir, his chest the bright robes
of grease and a shovel hat and the cloak of a fly's wing color, prebendary
of a cathedral miserable forgotten, poor and without a bishop.

In
one of these streets had been Febrer Seminary, long house, with white
walls, bars covered the windows as well as a prison. The Chaplain,
to remember, put serious erased from his face white chocolate ivory
smile. What month was been there! The master entertained the boredom
of the holidays with this small farmer wanting to start in the beauty
of the Latin letters with the help of his eloquence and a belt. I
wanted to make him a prodigy, to surprise the other teachers when
they would open classes, and hits retailers. There swept back into his
mind the story of the marriage of his ancestor, Red Godwyn, and he laughed low in spite of himself.

Miss Vanderpoel looked up at him quickly.

"Please tell me about it, if it is very amusing," she said.

"I wonder if it will amuse you," was his answer. "Do you like savage romance?"

"Very much."

It might seem a propos de rien, but he did not care in the least. He wanted to hear what she
would say.

"An ancestor of mine--a certain Red Godwyn--was a barbarian immensely to my taste. He became
enamoured of rumours of the beauty of the daughter and heiress of his bitterest enemy. In his
day, when one wanted a thing, one rode forth with axe and spear to fight for it."

"A simple and alluring method," commented Betty. "What was her name?"

She leaned in light ease against the stone back of her seat, the rose light cast by her parasol
faintly flushed her. The silence of their retreat seemed accentuated by its background of music
from the gardens. They smiled a second bravely into each other's eyes, then their glances became
entangled, as they had done for a moment when they had stood together in Mount Dunstan park.
For one moment each had been held prisoner then--now it was for longer.

"Alys of the Sea-Blue Eyes."

Betty tried to release herself, but could not.

"Sometimes the sea is grey," she said.

His own eyes were still in hers.

"Hers were the colour of the sea on a day when the sun shines on it, and there are large fleece-white
clouds floating in the blue above. They sparkled and were often like bluebells under water."

"Bluebells under water sounds entrancing," said Betty.

He caught his breath slightly.

"They were--entrancing," he said. "That was evidently the devil of it--saving your presence."

"I have never objected to the devil," said Betty. "He is an energetic, hard-working creature
and paints himself an honest black. Please tell me the rest."

"Red Godwyn went forth, and after a bloody fight took his enemy's castle. If we still lived
in like simple, honest times, I should take Dunholm Castle in the same way. He also took Alys
of the Eyes and bore her away captive."

"From such incidents developed the germs of the desire for female suffrage," Miss Vanderpoel
observed gently.

"The interest of the story lies in the fact that apparently the savage was either epicure or
sentimentalist, or both. He did not treat the lady ill. He shut her in a tower chamber overlooking
his courtyard, and after allowing her three days to weep, he began his barbarian wooing. Arraying
himself in splendour he ordered her to appear before him. He sat upon the dais in his banquet
hall, his retainers gathered about him--a great feast spread. In archaic English we are told
that the board groaned beneath the weight of golden trenchers and flagons. Minstrels played
and sang, while he displayed all his splendour."

"They do it yet," said Miss Vanderpoel, "in London and New York and other places."

"The next day, attended by his followers, he took her with him to ride over his lands. When
she returned to her tower chamber she had learned how powerful and great a chieftain he was.
She 'laye softely' and was attended by many maidens, but she had no entertainment but to look
out upon the great green court. There he arranged games and trials of strength and skill, and
she saw him bigger, stronger, and more splendid than any other man. He did not even lift his
eyes to her window. He also sent her daily a rich gift."

"How long did this go on?"

"Three months. At the end of that time he commanded her presence again in his banquet hall.
He told her the gates were opened, the drawbridge down and an escort waiting to take her back
to her father's lands, if she would."

"What did she do?"

"She looked at him long--and long. She turned proudly away--in the sea-blue eyes were heavy
and stormy tears, which seeing----"

"Ah, he saw them?" from Miss Vanderpoel.

"Yes. And seizing her in his arms caught her to his breast, calling for a priest to make them
one within the hour. I am quoting the chronicle. I was fifteen when I read it first."

"It is spirited," said Betty, "and Red Godwyn was almost modern in his methods."

While professing composure and lightness of mood, the spell which works between two creatures
of opposite sex when in such case wrought in them and made them feel awkward and stiff. When
each is held apart from the other by fate, or will, or circumstance, the spell is a stupefying
thing, deadening even the clearness of sight and wit.

"I must slink back now," Betty said, rising. "Will you slink back with me to give me countenance?
I have greatly liked Red Godwyn."

So it occurred that when Nigel Anstruthers saw them again it was as they crossed the lawn together,
and people looked up from ices and cups of tea to follow their slow progress with questioning
or approving eyes.

CHAPTER XXXV

THE TIDAL WAVE

There was only one man to speak to, and it being the nature of the beast--so he harshly put
it to himself--to be absolutely impelled to speech at such times, Mount Dunstan laid bare his
breast to him, tearing aside all the coverings pride would have folded about him. The man was,
of course, Penzance, and the laying bare was done the evening after the story of Red Godwyn
had been told in the laurel walk.

They had driven home together in a profound silence, the elder man as deep in thought as the
younger one. Penzance was thinking that there was a calmness in having reached sixty and in
knowing that the pain and hunger of earlier years would not tear one again. And yet, he himself
was not untorn by that which shook the man for whom his affection had grown year by year. It
was evidently very bad--very bad, indeed. He wondered if he would speak of it, and wished he
would, not because he himself had much to say in answer, but because he knew that speech would
be better than hard silence.

"Stay with me to-night," Mount Dunstan said, as they drove through the avenue to the house.
"I want you to dine with me and sit and talk late. I am not sleeping well."

They often dined together, and the vicar not infrequently slept at the Mount for mere companionship's
sake. Sometimes they read, sometimes went over accounts, planned economies, and balanced expenditures.
A chamber still called the Chaplain's room was always kept in readiness. It had been used in
long past days, when a household chaplain had sat below the salt and left his patron's table
before the sweets were served. They dined together this night almost as silently as they had
driven homeward, and after the meal they went and sat alone in the library.

The huge room was never more than dimly lighted, and the far-off corners seemed more darkling
than usual in the insufficient illumination of the far from brilliant lamps. Mount Dunstan,
after standing upon the hearth for a few minutes smoking a pipe, which would have compared
ill with old Doby's Sunday splendour, left his coffee cup upon the mantel and began to tramp
up and down--out of the dim light into the shadows, back out of the shadows into the poor light.

"You know," he said, "what I think about most things--you know what I feel."

"I think I do."

"You know what I feel about Englishmen who brand themselves as half men and marked merchandise
by selling themselves and their houses and their blood to foreign women who can buy them. You
know how savage I have been at the mere thought of it. And how I have sworn----"

"Yes, I know what you have sworn," said Mr. Penzance.

It struck him that Mount Dunstan shook and tossed his head rather like a bull about to charge
an enemy.

"You know how I have felt myself perfectly within my rights when I blackguarded such men and
sneered at such women--taking it for granted that each was merchandise of his or her kind and
beneath contempt. I am not a foul-mouthed man, but I have used gross words and rough ones to
describe them."

"I have heard you."

Mount Dunstan threw back his head with a big, harsh laugh. He came out of the shadow and stood
still.

"Well," he said, "I am in love--as much in love as any lunatic ever was--with the daughter
of Reuben S. Vanderpoel. There you are--and there I am!"

"It has seemed to me," Penzance answered, "that it was almost inevitable."

"My condition is such that it seems to ME that it would be inevitable in the case of any man.
When I see another man look at her my blood races through my veins with an awful fear and a
wicked heat. That will show you the point I have reached." He walked over to the mantelpiece
and laid his pipe down with a hand Penzance saw was unsteady. "In turning over the pages of
the volume of Life," he said, "I have come upon the Book of Revelations."

"That is true," Penzance said.

"Until one has come upon it one is an inchoate fool," Mount Dunstan went on. "And afterwards
one is--for a time at least--a sort of madman raving to one's self, either in or out of a straitjacket--as
the case may be. I am wearing the jacket--worse luck! Do you know anything of the state of
a man who cannot utter the most ordinary words to a woman without being conscious that he is
making mad love to her? This afternoon I found myself telling Miss Vanderpoel the story of
Red Godwyn and Alys of the Sea-Blue Eyes. I did not make a single statement having any connection
with myself, but throughout I was calling on her to think of herself and of me as of those
two. I saw her in my own arms, with the tears of Alys on her lashes. I was making mad love,
though she was unconscious of my doing it."

"How do you know she was unconscious?" remarked Mr. Penzance. "You are a very strong man."

Mount Dunstan's short laugh was even a little awful, because it meant so much. He let his forehead
drop a moment on to his arms as they rested on the mantelpiece.

"Oh, my God!" he said. But the next instant his head lifted itself. "It is the mystery of the
world--this thing. A tidal wave gathering itself mountain high and crashing down upon one's
helplessness might be as easily defied. It is supposed to disperse, I believe. That has been
said so often that there must be truth in it. In twenty or thirty or forty years one is told
one will have got over it. But one must live through the years--one must LIVE through them--and
the chief feature of one's madness is that one is convinced that they will last forever."

"Go on," said Mr. Penzance, because he had paused and stood biting his lip. "Say all that you
feel inclined to say. It is the best thing you can do. I have never gone through this myself,
but I have seen and known the amazingness of it for many years. I have seen it come and go."

"Can you imagine," Mount Dunstan said, "that the most damnable thought of all--when a man is
passing through it--is the possibility of its GOING? Anything else rather than the knowledge
that years could change or death could end it! Eternity seems only to offer space for it. One
knows--but one does not believe. It does something to one's brain."

"No scientist, howsoever profound, has ever discovered what," the vicar mused aloud.

"The Book of Revelations has shown to me how--how MAGNIFICENT life might be!" Mount Dunstan
clenched and unclenched his hands, his eyes flashing. "Magnificent--that is the word. To go
to her on equal ground to take her hands and speak one's passion as one would--as her eyes
answered. Oh, one would know! To bring her home to this place--having made it as it once was--to
live with her here--to be WITH her as the sun rose and set and the seasons changed--with the
joy of life filling each of them. SHE is the joy of Life--the very heart of it. You see where
I am--you see!"

"Yes," Penzance answered. He saw, and bowed his head, and Mount Dunstan knew he wished him
to continue.

"Sometimes--of late--it has been too much for me and I have given free rein to my fancy--knowing
that there could never be more than fancy. I was doing it this afternoon as I watched her move
about among the people. And Mary Lithcom began to talk about her." He smiled a grim smile.
"Perhaps it was an intervention of the gods to drag me down from my impious heights. She was
quite unconscious that she was driving home facts like nails--the facts that every man who
wanted money wanted Reuben S. Vanderpoel's daughter--and that the young lady, not being dull,
was not unaware of the obvious truth! And that men with prizes to offer were ready to offer
them in a proper manner. Also that she was only a brilliant bird of passage, who, in a few
months, would be caught in the dazzling net of the great world. And that even Lord Westholt
and Dunholm Castle were not quite what she might expect. Lady Mary was sincerely interested. The women supported their heads in dismay poetic blonde shoulder next. A rattle began
to mourn with hysterics. "The moon ... the moon, "murmured each in your language. And so were
a long time motionless, as if he had ever seen, hypnotized by that side of cheeks hanging lights on
the horizon.

An American threw a bottle toward the star. Had to give water to the large lady. Immediately,
as if the madness was contagious, a shower of empty bottles or unopened fell into the ocean.
They passed the bright circle like a cloud of black shells. Having exhausted the supply, commission
and pastors muscular grasslands took the chairs and tables of the deck, and everything started
to go on overboard, falling into the water with noisy splash.

Slapping around, writhing with laughter at the unexpected spectacle, said others, excited by the force
and speed with objects jumping ship at sea, ran the waiters to give
notice of these violations, and the butler came screaming and putting
with outstretched arms between the rail and shooters.

We had to make efforts to appease the cow-boys, who found the game very much in its taste.
They were ready to pay for all this damage and that could make respectable gentlemen who were
in his company. "And a gentleman to pay, you can do you want. "They took notes in handfuls from
the pockets of his pants, indignant that for a few dollars to come to disturb their pleasure,
and only to be calmed back into the den with all the honor society,
with some bottles that a friend had kept hidden under a table.

-
And there was more - Maltrana said.

But Ojeda said. Near dawn that had attracted many commuters living in Isidro near the cabin.
Screaming, hitting the door, desperate appeals ring, your butler
raised his round.

What was that?

- It was my doing - Maltrana replied modestly lowering her eyes -.

I came up with the other night. Just drink a little, I am assailed by the memory of my neighbor
and I find dark man the mystery that keeps the cabin immediately.

He had told his colleagues in this romantic neighborhood, assuming all real and undeniable what
he had in his imagination.

A great lady, Princess Russian or Austrian Archduchess - in doubted that Maltrana - prisoner
came on the ship. Nobody had seen her, but her beauty was extraordinary. And her captor and guardian
was nasty man, always in black, stern face ...

They listened with great interest all: some selfishly moved by the beauty of lady, others nobly
outraged that with them a man could make this kidnapping. The oldest cow-boy opened his eyes
with childlike wonder. 'And the mistress lived locked in against His will! And this was possible
!...»

A few minutes Maltrana could be seen moving cautiously along the corridor leading to his cabin, followed
by several colleagues who were marching in line, holding their breath
as if they were going to surprise a sleeping enemy.

Knocked on the door of the mysterious man. "Sir open you good. "She should avoid the scandal
and that his crime is a mystery. Maltrana which was advised by his well. Should give them the
key of the cabin immediately and go back to sleep, if that was your choice ... Useless to resist,
they reached the head of an army heroes ... Did did the deaf? At one! ... Both! ...

And the fallen heroes with all the strength of their bodies on the
cabin door neighbor to break it down and free the lady.

"Do not fear, princess, do not shout. We are friends. " The recommendation Maltrana was useless,
for she did not cry or approached the door. Each thump of old cowboy moved the entire row
of cabins. There was a burst of screams and curses of people suddenly awakened. Vibrated furiously
in the distance the sound of a ringtone. It was the mysterious man calling for help.

- Where, upon presentation of the butler saw we were trying to force the door of the princess, became
enraged as I've ever seen: a rabid lamb anger.

We missed respect, threatening to call the commander to metiese us
at the bar.

I promised change my cabin today, not to repeat my efforts. All this tells me yet More on the
belief that there is a secret, a great secret in the closed cabin. Had to Butler see the outrage
when we caught on the way to find out ... And do not discover, There is hope.

Ojeda appeared to question him with his eyes to hear this.

- Do not be discovered - continued Isidro - because I just give my word of honor Butler not
deal more than my neighbor or browse in the cabin immediately. So leave me alone mine, and
it forces me to move to a less comfortable ... The mystery man wins.
How has be!

... I see it, and to punish him, I have not welcomed ... And they always deny greeting though
he pretends he does not care. That will teach you to be silent and decent person.

And if you ache to have to leave the company, told Ojeda:

- You can
be dedicated to this business.

If you want, I pay my cabin to spy him. Look closely ... is a princess. And surely if you are
the who seeks It will see. You are the best present I: more beautiful, more elegant.

Fernando made a gesture of indifference and detachment that seemed
to offend Maltrana, as if directed against a person in your family.

Poor Princess! Verla abandoned well! ...

- I understand. You are at the moment things that were better ... But perhaps misleading. Who
knows ... Who knows?

Ojeda continued listening to his friend, but with some distraction, turning his head always
she could feel someone step up behind him.

The deck was fully occupied passengers: some moving in groups, others sitting round in their
chairs, obstructing step. Everyone was up ... except her.

He longed to see Fernando and afraid at the same time. I felt the anguish of the first interview
after possession, when we reflect calmly, faded and blinding bursts, and calculate the consequences
of the gesture. What expression would be yours to be as friends, forced into hiding after feigning
intimacy? ...

Sounded the roar of the fire, which indicated the noon hour. A lunch! ... Down in the dining room,
Fernando felt growing concern to see that all tables were filled and Maud was still unoccupied.
Sucedíanse the dishes, the lunch was ending and she does not appear.

Maltrana, taking pity on his impatience, he asked a waiter for the American lady. Was he sick?
... And after a while returned home with news. He had asked who served lunch in his cabin. Perhaps
he was unwell.

This made Ojeda eat quickly, with a visible desire to escape as soon as possible ... Maud sick!
Walked down the passageway leading to the luxury apartments on the
same floor dining room.

Left safely on the soft carpet to the vicinity of their own cabin, but the twist in the direction
of Maud, was advancing cautiously, as going to a rendezvous and fears being seen. After a short
corridor, with a skylight was the door of Mrs. Power, with a card that bore his name. The door remained
ajar and immobile, fixed in position by a hook inside to get him to stop the cool of the hall.

Fernando looked through the open space, without seeing anything but
the middle of a table occupied by toiletries.

Between brushes, perfume bottles and sprays seemed to reign photograph of a man locked in a nickel
frame. He was a handsome, jaw energetic, mustache trimmed, compelling eyes and a big flower in the
buttonhole. Undoubtedly Mr. Power ... Ojeda recalled the night before Maud had been torn from
her arms at first, running at that table with the desire to repair an oversight. Without doubt
was to hide the nice mister, who again occupied the place of honor,
after Hours of ingratitude and sin.

He played with his knuckles on the door timidly, and a voice question, that of Maud, answered
affably: "Who ?...». But in giving his name Fernando, there was some movement of surprise and jumble
the other side of the door, as if Mrs. Power was incorporated surprised
and irritated.

"Ah, no! Imprudence, not !...» His voice trembled, angry, hoarse, a voice stripped suddenly from
her silken femininity. And as if afraid that the man take his bold bold to lift the hook fixing
the door, it was she who was ahead of its action, blinding with hard drive, which endangered
the one hand.

Fernando remained puzzled by the secretive veneer. Stammered excuses. Had been to know about
the health of the woman: he feared that he was sick.

But she cut these words humble imploring forgiveness short and harsh as other orders. I could
retire. No came without permission into the cabin of a lady. It was a reckless compromising unworthy
of a gentleman.

Stupefaction felt more shame to withdraw humiliated. But was I was talking Maud well ...? Is it
a dream the night before? ...

Reviewed in his report incidents and words with the anxiety of finding something that would could
offend. Because he was sure that only one offense was inadvertent on his part be the cause of
this behavior. Women are so touchy! ...

I could not blame this change of mood to disappointment suffered by Maud. No, it does not. I said
him, proud of his manly power. He remembered the sighing thanked satisfied the U.S., his praise
for the tireless stammering eagerness of a race that, in certain ends, considered far superior
to yours, methodical and prudent humility with at dawn had requested mercy, overcome by fatigue
and sleep.

"This will happen - it was said Fernando -. A whim ... maybe some blush, afraid to see me another
time. In the afternoon or evening talk, as if nothing had happened. "

Up on the promenade deck, saw the people crowded on a starboard rail,
looking the sea.

A waterspout, a water spout on the horizon. He looked like the others, but seeing nothing extraordinary.
The sky was clear with the changeable speed of the equatorial atmosphere. In his clear blue only
black cloud was floating near the horizon line.

This cloud, which looked all like a filmy petal flower with a long stem descending in search of
water. But this rod suddenly lost their rigidity, making the form of a leech that stretched his mouth
without the ocean. A color space Violet was between the Atlantic and the end surface of the sleeve,
and yet, not verified that the colossal left suction. The sea rose up under the cloud as the
basket, and the foam-capped water arena site changed and the cone misty was running across the
sky.

Finally broke up the waterspout, restoring the uniform smoothness of horizon. Passengers finished
the show, again, we run on the cover or hid in the den and conservatory.

They joked about the ceremony that was to verify that it later. Asomábanse to balconies with bow down to
see the big pile of baptism, improvised in the waist with wood and tarpaulins, swimming pool receiving
continuous water the sea by a sleeve and shed some of its content with the swaying of the ship.

The
sesteantes left their cabins at four in the afternoon and climbed to the roofs, Flashing dazzled
by the heat of the sun. The music, accompanied by shouts and great noise children, toured
the ship. Neptune had just come on board. Nobody had seen where, but the presence of God with his
bizarre courtship was indisputable.

Alineábase people on the trip to see the carnival parade march. First, the band often preceded
the passage: children's nannies pushing strollers, young restless
jumping and jostling, shouting all the gear gullet playing musicians.

Then a redskin with large tufts and a huge ax, sweat covered his nakedness with ocher, two black
and almost naked, without other superfluities than a loincloth Mane, holes and ballerina skirts,
and a spear on his shoulder. These black forged with shiny body bitumen, taught under the blue eyes
curly wig. Then, four dented helmet gendarmes and rusty swords, and after the honor guard, Neptune,
that of the white-bearded, with diadem of brass and face drunk, an astronomer and his assistant with
many long calico dress coats of high-crowned hats and daubed with stars, a notary cap and gown,
followed by his assistant, who kept the books, and the barber of
God, favorite clown at a time, as well as certain historical rapabarbas
counselors ancient kings.

After traveling all floors of the main castle, the procession into
the waist down, settling poolside.

The migrants, herded into the bow string after a fence, looked grotesque
silent ceremony.

The central castle llenábanse practicable balcony of crowd. From the esplanade abarcábase forward
together his huge white facade, similar to construction of a palace, cut galleries end to end
and topped by a kiosk was the bridge. On the rows of spectators leaning out the various practicable
balcony appeared Other Uploaded on benches and chairs, moving their heads to see better the
party. The bridge of defeat also was invaded by the passengers, and among the white caps of officers
above him that scanned the sea and watched the progress of the ship glowed blond tone some
feminine head and waved colored veils.

Carnival astronomer and his assistant took the ridiculous height of nautical instruments, and to
make the statement that they were exactly in line, Neptune, with a stroke of trident, began
the ceremony. The clerk read a book held by his amanuensis. German words, the sound rough and
come through his beard red hemp, caused practicable balcony in an explosion of laughter and blushes
feminine. It was the laughter that accompanies heavy the jokes misleading. "What? What do you
say? "Asked the most, not understanding these Germanic wit. And although it received no reply, just
laughed.

Maltrana Ojeda, who were in the waist, close to the grotesque characters, advancing the head
as if to understand something in this story.

- What does Fernando? ... The words have a certain buzz, as if they were poetry.

- Son hallelujah. I do not understand, but I seem silly to make people laugh is good.

Finished reading with a loud trumpeting of the musicians, and the
two blacks, abandoning their javelins, rushed headlong into the pool,
doing various sorts of swimming and running long time with your feet
up and head submerged, floating on the surface of the skirt manes.

Shouted the smiling ladies scandal turned their heads some mothers search of their children, to
recommend that they not looked at. But the calm was soon restored and trust, as it is civilized black,
black Protestants, who wore chaste dissimulation under the loincloth.

His swim through were almost forgotten by the preparations made the grotesque barber. Brought
to light their appliances, and each was greeted with great laughter: a razor blade the size of a
man no less large pliers, which served to start grinding, all painted
wood, a brush that was a broom, with stirring liquid from a tank,
throwing handfuls of plaster dust contained be soap.

Sharpened knife on a large piece of cloth held by two apprentices; pliers trying to hunt proved with
them the head of one of blacks that eluded diving into the pool; appreciated the density of
the white paste with a splash bucket broom asperges of the most overlooked; and good people
celebrated with great rejoicing all his antics.

He started the parade of neophytes. The clerk read names, and were moving between two gendarmes
they should receive baptism, barefoot, with no undergarments suit or a simple pajamas. They
were first class passengers who agreed to take part in the ceremony, and whose presence of the
public greeted with shouts and cheers.

Women laughed with malicious delight to contemplate such a facade to the same gentlemen who
strutted on the promenade or dining room with stretching ceremony.

Only the Germans marched making their first trip to the other hemisphere, friends, traditions,
believed had been disappointed that their interests and reduced their reputation by proposing
someone save this grotesque and painful ceremony.

Ancient custom was to suffer the baptism of line, and they did not give up what law their share.
Moreover, it was an honor and a pleasure to contribute to the amusement
of fellow travel at the expense of the individual.

With the rise in the list of those for a christening was not a German name, the clerk refrains from
repeating and passing to another. They knew the the vessel, by several experiments, that only
the Germanic humor gladly lent these games. Brown people, extremely capable and great fear
of ridicule, taking offenses such as teasing.

The police put the neophyte in the hands of the barber, and he did sit on a ladder the edge of the
pool.

The two blacks were moving behind him wetting the back with angry
puffs that made him shudder, while the rapabarbas proceeded to dress.

Le smeared with white body, struggling to support the patient, trying to rid the eyes and mouth from
the torment of the broom. Pretended to shave with the gruesome navajón; tried introduced between
his lips the huge tongs to extract a tooth, and meanwhile the clerk pronounced the formula of
baptism: "By the grace of god Neptune will hereinafter call ...». And gave him a name: shark, crab,
cod, whale, according to the caricature of himself, nicknames were echoed by the easy laughter
of the audience.

Roared the trumpets at the end of his formula,
the clerk, supported her fists barber in the chest of a neophyte,
he pulled the black, and fell back in the pool with a splash splashing
over long distances. Disappeared into the turbid liquid covered of
tufts of plaster. Blacks weighed on him to keep his immersion as possible,
and finally resurfaced three made a bunch, struggling with fierce
claws that caused laughter. And the dubbed out dripping, no other
concern to keep his hands clasped on his belly to avoid unseemly transparencies,
carrying traces on their clothes dark of the hands of blacks, while
they bore in their arms faded the white hands marked by the neophyte
during the fight.

He was throwing names the clerk, and some, getting
no response, the intervention caused law enforcement. Obeying a sign
from the butler, came the gendarmes ridiculous in search of the fugitive
throughout the ship. He was someone who wanted to increase public
joy this incident of his invention. And when he finally left to catch,
appeared, as well as a turtle in its shell under the turns of wire
with which he had fastened his captors. The barber was wroth with
him, prolonging the barbarous cleaning operations, and free blacks
a true boxing to not let out of the pool.

- Herr Maltrana.

Just
said that the clerk, a mad joy spread across the waist, winning practicable
balcony central castle. Even the emigrants from the bow out of his
immobility. All which until then had remained indifferent to men devoid
of meaning suddenly broke shouting, they stirred the same as a mob
that invades a scene. "Maltrana! That leaves Maltrana! "The noble
women returned to him from above his eyes and waved hands to obey
their wishes. "Like she was goin' off."

"And that very minute," said the woman, "a young lady came by on 'orseback, an' the minute
she sees me she stops her 'orse an' gets down."

"I never seen nothing like the quick way she done it," said the husband. "Sharp, like she was
a soldier under order. Down an' give the bridle to the groom an' comes over."

"And kneels down," the woman took him up, "right by me an' says, 'What's the matter? What can
I do?' an' finds out in two minutes an' sends to the farm for some brandy an' all this basketful
of stuff," jerking her head towards the treasure at her side. "An' gives 'IM," with another
jerk towards her mate, "money enough to 'elp us along till I'm fair on my feet. That quick
it was--that quick," passing her hand over her forehead, "as if it wasn't for the basket,"
with a nervous, half-hysteric giggle, "I wouldn't believe but what it was a dream--I wouldn't."

"She was a very kind young lady," said Mount Dunstan, "and you were in luck."

He gave a few coppers to the children and strode on his way. The glow was hot in his heart,
and he held his head high.

"She has gone by," he said. "She has gone by."

He knew he should find her at West Ways Farm, and he did so. Slim and straight as a young birch
tree, and elate with her ride in the morning air, she stood silhouetted in her black habit
against the ancient whitewashed brick porch as she talked to Bolter.

"I have been drinking a glass of milk and asking questions about hops," she said, giving him
her hand bare of glove. "Until this year I have never seen a hop garden or a hop picker."

After the exchange of a few words Bolter respectfully melted away and left them together.

"It was such a wonderful day that I wanted to be out under the sky for a long time--to ride
a long way," she explained. "I have been looking at hop gardens as I rode. I have watched them
all the summer--from the time when there was only a little thing with two or three pale green
leaves looking imploringly all the way up to the top of each immensely tall hop pole, from
its place in the earth at the bottom of it--as if it was saying over and over again, under
its breath, 'Can I get up there? Can I get up? Can I do it in time? Can I do it in time?' Yes,
that was what they were saying, the little bold things. I have watched them ever since, putting
out tendrils and taking hold of the poles and pulling and climbing like little acrobats. And
curling round and unfolding leaves and more leaves, until at last they threw them out as if
they were beginning to boast that they could climb up into the blue of the sky if the summer
were long enough. And now, look at them!" her hand waved towards the great gardens. "Forests
of them, cool green pathways and avenues with leaf canopies over them."

"You have seen it all," he said. "You do see things, don't you? A few hundred yards down the
road I passed something you had seen. I knew it was you who had seen it, though the poor wretches
had not heard your name."

She hesitated a moment, then stooped down and took up in her hand a bit of pebbled earth from
the pathway. There was storm in the blue of her eyes as she held it out for him to look at
as it lay on the bare rose-flesh of her palm.

"See," she said, "see, it is like that--what we give. It is like that." And she tossed the
earth away.

"It does not seem like that to those others."

"No, thank God, it does not. But to one's self it is the mere luxury of self-indulgence, and
the realisation of it sometimes tempts one to be even a trifle morbid. Don't you see," a sudden
thrill in her voice startled him, "they are on the roadside everywhere all over the world."

"Yes. All over the world."

"Once when I was a child of ten I read a magazine article about the suffering millions and
the monstrously rich, who were obviously to blame for every starved sob and cry. It almost
drove me out of my childish senses. I went to my father and threw myself into his arms in a
violent fit of crying. I clung to him and sobbed out, 'Let us give it all away; let us give
it all away and be like other people!'"

"What did he say?"

"He said we could never be quite like other people. We had a certain load to carry along the
highway. It was the thing the whole world wanted and which we ourselves wanted as much as the
rest, and we could not sanely throw it away. It was my first lesson in political economy and
I abhorred it. I was a passionate child and beat furiously against the stone walls enclosing
present suffering. It was horrible to know that they could not be torn down. I cried out, 'When
I see anyone who is miserable by the roadside I shall stop and give him everything he wants--everything!'
I was ten years old, and thought it could be done."

"But you stop by the roadside even now."

"Yes. That one can do."

"You are two strong creatures and you draw each other," Penzance had said. "Perhaps you drew
each other across seas. Who knows?"

Coming to West Ways on a chance errand he had, as it were, found her awaiting him on the threshold.
On her part she had certainly not anticipated seeing him there, but--when one rides far afield
in the sun there are roads towards which one turns as if answering a summoning call, and as
her horse had obeyed a certain touch of the rein at a certain point her cheek had felt momentarily
hot.

Until later, when the "picking" had fairly begun, the kilns would not be at work; but there
was some interest even now in going over the ground for the first time.

"I have never been inside an oast house," she said; "Bolter is going to show me his, and explain
technicalities."

"May I come with you?" he asked.

There was a change in him. Something had lighted in his eyes since the day before, when he
had told her his story of Red Godwyn. She wondered what it was. They went together over the
place, escorted by Bolter. They looked into the great circular ovens, on whose floors the hops
would be laid for drying, they mounted ladder-like steps to the upper room where, when dried,
the same hops would lie in soft, light piles, until pushed with wooden shovels into the long
"pokes" to be pressed and packed into a solid marketable mass. Bolter was allowed to explain
the technicalities, but it was plain that Mount Dunstan was familiar with all of them, and
it was he who, with a sentence here and there, gave her the colour of things.

"When it is being done there is nearly always outside a touch of the sharp sweetness of early
autumn," he said "The sun slanting through the little window falls on the pale yellow heaps,
and there is a pungent scent of hops in the air which is rather intoxicating."

"I am coming later to see the entire process," she answered.

It was a mere matter of seeing common things together and exchanging common speech concerning
them, but each was so strongly conscious of the other that no sentence could seem wholly impersonal.
There are times when the whole world is personal to a mood whose intensity seems a reason for
all things. Words are of small moment when the mere sound of a voice makes an unreasonable joy.

"There was that touch of sharp autumn sweetness in the air yesterday morning," she said. "And
the chaplets of briony berries that look as if they had been thrown over the hedges are beginning
to change to scarlet here and there. The wild rose-haws are reddening, and so are the clusters
of berries on the thorn trees and bushes."

"There are millions of them," Mount Dunstan said, "and in a few weeks' time they will look
like bunches of crimson coral. When the sun shines on them they will be wonderful to see."

What was there in such speeches as these to draw any two nearer and nearer to each other as
they walked side by side--to fill the morning air with an intensity of life, to seem to cause
the world to drop away and become as nothing? As they had been isolated during their waltz
in the crowded ballroom at Dunholm Castle, so they were isolated now. When they stood in the
narrow green groves of the hop garden, talking simply of the placing of the bins and the stripping
and measuring of the vines, there might have been no human thing within a hundred miles--within
a thousand. For the first time his height and strength conveyed to her an impression of physical
beauty. His walk and bearing gave her pleasure. When he turned his red-brown eyes upon her
suddenly she was conscious that she liked their colour, their shape, the power of the look
in them. On his part, he--for the twentieth time--found himself newly moved by the dower nature
had bestowed on her. Had the world ever held before a woman creature so much to be longed for?--abnormal
wealth, New York and Fifth Avenue notwithstanding, a man could only think of folding arms round
her and whispering in her lovely ear--follies, oaths, prayers, gratitude.

And yet as they went about together there was growing in Betty Vanderpoel's mind a certain
realisation. It grew in spite of the recognition of the change in him--the new thing lighted
in his eyes. Whatsoever he felt--if he felt anything--he would never allow himself speech.
How could he? In his place she could not speak herself. Because he was the strong thing which
drew her thoughts, he would not come to any woman only to cast at her feet a burden which,
in the nature of things, she must take up. And suddenly she comprehended that the mere obstinate
Briton in him--even apart from greater things--had an immense attraction for her. As she liked
now the red-brown colour of his eyes and saw beauty in his rugged features, so she liked his
British stubbornness and the pride which would not be beaten.

"It is the unconquerable thing, which leads them in their battles and makes them bear any horror
rather than give in. They have taken half the world with it; they are like bulldogs and lions,"
she thought. "And--and I am glorying in it."

"Do you know," said Mount Dunstan, "that sometimes you suddenly fling out the most magnificent
flag of colour--as if some splendid flame of thought had sent up a blaze?"

"I hope it is not a habit," she answered. And after last Alto de Boa Vista, when running in the woods, they had been seduced the beautiful
panorama of the Cascatinha.

- Here - Isidro ordered with unquestioned authority -. Never be made a challenge with such a beautiful
backdrop.

Too bad it does not come with us a cameraman! What the world lost tape! ...

Apartábase the slope in the vicinity of the road, forming a meager valley. The rock appeared
the trees cut vertically, and from the top of it a mass desplomábase Water hitting the highlights
of basalt. Boiling the water with several drops white foam. The dust often raised their bubbling
took iris reflexes under sunlight. Sweaty blackened by damp stones,
shone as if blocks were metal.

The tropical vegetation moved the large hands of dripping leaves.

Waterfall plunged into a small lagoon, running after, foaming and
whispering, by outstanding fairways in the rocks.

Tangled vegetation and loose rock left only open and accessible space a small uneven ground.

Maltrana
thought about the difficulties that offered this area for battle, but was seduced its beauty and
refused to go further. Where can I find more interesting decoration to a death possible? Had to
raise our voices, as the clash of the waters dominated all other sounds. It was by way of orchestral
trills that hit the theater a poignant highlight words and gestures. Isidro felt greatest in the
moist environment and sound.

The forest still seemed behold with its thousand green eyes, between amazed and curious.

Began to give orders to the other sponsors, who followed him as the
neophytes are the great priest of a new cult.

"That car was withdrawn just past the waterfall! Drivers not advisable to witness the act. "

And
Maltrana was obeyed. The drivers drove back their carriages, but then, with hands behind his
back, feigning distraction, back quizzically at the same site, tiding
of knowing what was going to stop this mystery.

As successfully got rid of another witness unwelcome: a dark-colored little boy naked legs and
large straw hat, which saw the convoy rushed to get out of a canopy
of reeds, cleaning a glass and offering it in a stream full of water
after edges.

He was the guardian spirit of the waterfall. Under his sunshade on a table, had several boats sugared glass
and other sweets, shriveled, blackened by time. Passed hours in absolute solitude, watching
the fluttering of birds in the foliage color immediate monotonous melodies extracting water humming,
speaking perhaps with thinking of Cascatinha naiads, which showed
in their rumps stirrings funny of white foam and velvet iris.

- Take
'menino' and get out of here.

Maltrana had one of the witnesses gave him some money for him to go,
and will also called "menino" - all I knew Portuguese - thus believed
flatter.

But the "menino" saved the quarter, and instead of leaving it stuck to him, as though divining
the importance of person. And I could not move without finding its way to the mulatto with his hat
pushed back, raising her eyes to his, drinking with his eyes words
and gestures, as if in the presence of a magician and do not want
to lose detail.

Isidro resigned himself to such disobedience, vulgar blunders of reality ... But we had to
proceed rapidly. Adelante!

Measured striding a space of twenty feet, which was agreed on paper
in his hand.

A little more distance was marked by their footsteps. But he was who had proposed twenty feet, and
with the same law could be measured thirty or forty if he felt like ... Just a minor detail.
Forward too!

After setting a branch site each opponent, drew back, staring at the
ground as an artist covers his work as a whole.

It was somewhat uneven. One of the two was to be very high, belly almost to the level of the
head of his opponent. But there to comply with the defects of the land, the circumstances did
not allow much detail in the preparations. An equally trivial detail. Come again!

Only then turned his head, looking at his teammates.

On one side were the sponsors, which continued its operations in respectful silence, not daring to give
them their ignorance disturbing. Further, with slight separation, the two enemies, who turned
back, too busy to follow the fall of the waters or the fluttering of birds in the tops of trees.

Gomez's
friend, with eager curiosity of tragic events, had followed in these preparations. Behind him
came the mulatto, opening his eyes more and more amazed by not understanding no such witchcraft.
The two young Argentines added the issue had been raised to the top
of a rock, and there sat with their legs dangling.

Below could see all alike, but they were considered mere spectators, and had tried to occupy
a place preference, a box, rather than remaining mixed with the artists.

Maltrana dodged, throwing a coin in the air, the place of each of
the combatants.

Then accompanied them to their sites with a severity funeral. He appreciated very much, "my dear
friends "but disappears sets such affection, and speaks only duty, terrible duty.

By having everyone at his position, feels thoroughly, removing his clothes the portfolio wallet,
keys, papers, anything that might be an obstacle to the fatal bullet. Then he buttoned his
jacket, turned up the collar, so that the white shirt not serve as a focus, the fingering of the two
affectionately, like a mother bumble their children before sending
them to ride.

But his kindness did not go beyond touch. In contrast, authoritarian and cruel eyes! ... Voice,
which seemed like a funeral bell in making its appalling recommendations! ...

The relentless director would put guns in their hands within a few moments, but before passed
from one to another the details of combat, not to lead to errors. When the two were ready, he
would give the voice of "Fire!", adding: "One .. two ... three! ".

In space between these three numbers would shoot. The fire him to do sooner or later "Would
be disqualified ... would be a felon, a miserable ... and contempt for everyone having honor
would fall upon him, chasing him throughout his life.

Maltrana Terrible! Twisted his eyes with a shocked expression when speaking of felonies and betrayal,
as if it had horrific punishments for offenders. His voice assumed a awesome tone, and both contenders
and not think from this time his aim to set good or the possibility
of being injured.

His only concern was not to incur the anger of that man who could make an eternal stigma of honor
before the world, continue their lessons which disciples obedient fire - where the bullet would
be - within the marked term. "Fire one, two, three.

After it was decided to open the valise Maltrana hand which contained
his arsenal.

Extracted it contained two revolvers in the same vessel, and with measured solemnity of the
opening, for that all sponsors examine its interior.

Gomez's friend, as an expert in weapons, witnessed the ceremony.

- There is only one capsule! - Said shocked, as if he had just discovered
an irregularity.

Maltrana looked at him severely. Young: combat conditions had been established advance for serious
people present there.

Two bullets would change nothing.

- But in every gun there is only one - the gentleman protested mestizo.

- Young - again said with a condescension Maltrana protector -: change two bullets means each
fighter only shoot one.

And as a suspected outbreak of mocking gesture in the face and narrow
eyes coppery Gomez, added:

- No more is needed to kill a man.

All I have seen death were quite with a bullet. Do not forget you, girl.

The young man stopped, regretting their boldness, feeling respect for this extraordinary man I had
witnessed many battles and deaths.

To erase the bad effect of their objections, was paid to be carrying the bag of weapons to
the place occupied by the opponents.

The three sponsors, thus concluding its work preparation, which could not be more passive, instinctively
took a few steps back. Gunpowder was to speak.

Maltrana, drawing a revolver from his confinement, he rode the key and put it in the hands of Baron,
away then the other fighter.

Gomez gave the Belgian a quick tip that was on guard with the gun in the air.

- Fellow, point to the feet. I know the guns, they always send the
bullet above.

Believe me, at the foot ... always at the feet, and make sure meat.

Then, on the opposite side, gave the same advice in a low voice and eyes gleaming with excitement.
"At the foot, buddy. Toss to toe, and he puts a bullet in the belly. I know something about this
... " The two thanked him for his kind indication with a slight bow. But it looked like worried,
thinking of other things, cocked their ears not to suffer the consequences of fatal delay, mentally
repeating the same thing: "One, two, three ...».

Maltrana was to be placed outside the line of fire between the two fighters more near the German,
who was occupying the high place.

He suspected a moment that was too by and could catch a bullet in their diversion. But he was the director,
had organized everything and all owed obedience. The weapons were loaded for him, and was not
acceptable or correct a projectile's insolence was allowed to go after him.

Gomez also hesitated for a moment if he would retire, but when the teacher still stuck him. Where
was a man, she might be next. Moreover, he seemed to lose some of this show Again, the waiting
great emotions, if retreated a few steps.

Maltrana were available to give beginning to the match, but first as an actor who prepares the phrase
decisive and looks at the audience, turned his eyes around him. Moment of emotion. The other sponsors
had gone even further, the three drivers, aware at last the object
of the raid, clustered at the foot of a cliff, moving the dark heads,
greedily opening his eyes, but they reflect emotion.

The two Argentines were at the top of the rock with legs dangling, as silent and attentive viewers
who see the curtain rises. The little boy had fled the waterfall to see the guns, with a restless
dog trot, refuge under the curtain.

From there, as if he feared for the integrity of those jars sweets,
which were the family fortune, covered in his arms, advancing the
snout, looking at everything through the eyes of frightened antelope.

Landscape seemed to reflect the general excitement. No parrots squawking in the immediate thickets; the
monkeys had ceased to jump between the branches became long before the fall sounded of a leaf or tree
bark. Sing to the waterfall seemed muted, as if were babbling and
frightened the white gods hidden in their lymph.

Maltrana suddenly was agreed that it was the first speaker on board
of Goethe, and considered appropriate to speak of his eloquence.

Never find a better setting to place a speech.

And the first to be moved by the pathos of his words and his voice trembling, was himself. He recalled
the close friendship that had united the two adversaries, his journey
"braving the dangers of the sea.

" A moment of forgetfulness or mistake had led to an unfortunate
incident; but good men, when they get to where they had come, without
fear and without reproach, could still be a fair explanation, avoiding
the release.

An approved sponsor, another wry face, possessed of sudden bellicosity. They had gone to there to
hear sermons. Soon to shoot guns, and escape before they could surprise. The two Argentines
looked at the top of the cliff.

- Geez! How well you speak the Galician!

Gomez's friend whispered, as if he began to lose faith in the teacher:

- Much ceremony to kill two men! ... What baton! ...

Isidro was really touched with something like an emotion of fear. These challenges arranged lightly,
to get by, were often the most tragic. A dreadful premonition warned him that the missiles would not
be lost. Anyone going to play.

And as the opponents remained silent and was visible impatience of
others, Maltrana gave his eloquence failed.

"Whatever you want to fate ..."

He took off his hat theatrical solemnity, bowed his head as if in front of him pass the fatality.

-
Salute to two gentlemen who are going to die.

He said this with genuine emotion, as if the death of both was for him an inevitable event; and affirming
the long scratchy throat, threw the shouts of command.

- Ready? ... Fire! One .. do ...

He could not finish. Sounded almost simultaneously two sounds like the beat of a tablet two clicks
of whiplash with two puffs of smoke.
Both sides were still standing, it looked as odd that nothing had
happened. Suddenly the Baron ran towards his enemy, he advanced to
meet him, and collided both her breasts while spontaneously crossed
arms in a loving squeeze.

The Argentines were removed in height with
a voice of surprise and protest. Do not you fired more? And what was
it? ... They had stolen the money.

- Tongo ... Tongo! - shouted at
the same time.

One of them, grabbing a piece of loose rock, he wanted
to throw it by way of congratulations on opponents reconciled. The
other was to imitate, but they stopped, surprised, then sliding down
rock ... There was a hurt. Maltrana hunched over with one foot between
the two hands. Intended to hold Gómez, the sponsors ran toward him.

Following
the shooting had been a crash on the right foot, a very violent crash,
much more painful than a stamp, and shook with tremors of agony all
the sensitivity this part of your body. He was wounded and became
increasingly concerned when looking at the foot and do not see it
as sign of perforation or spotting.

Gomez showed himself outraged
by the stupidity of one of the two shooters.

- Son of a big bug!
... If I get to give it to me!

Her eyes shone at an alarming rate
just to think that this would stray bullet could touch him. Instinctively
carrying away a hand to his waist. The friend had attended Gómez the
challenge bringing his revolver, so that may occur.

All surrounded
Isidro, hands, looking in vain for the wound that tore deep sighs.
No sign of the projectile. Only a slight depression of shoe leather
on the spot numb the pain. 

Sought Gomez, meanwhile, with his head
down looking at the floor. His instinct of man field, used to study
the smallest accidents of the vast plains of Argentina, her with the
wonderful "crawlers", diviners of Pampa, I did find the explanation
of this mystery. He drew a few steps open a tiny hole in the ground.
There was bullet buried. After that----" he
hesitated a moment, smiling not too pleasantly.

"After that," said Mount Dunstan, "the Deluge."

"Exactly. The Deluge which usually sweeps girls off their feet--but it will not sweep her off
hers. She will stand quite firm in the flood and lose sight of nothing of importance which
floats past."

Mount Dunstan took him up. He was sick of hearing the fellow's voice.

"There will be a good many things," he said; "there will be great personages and small ones,
pomps and vanities, glittering things and heavy ones."

"When she sees what she wants," said Anstruthers, "she will hold out her hand, knowing it will
come to her. The things which drown will not disturb her. I once made the blunder of suggesting
that she might need protection against the importunate--as if she had been an English girl.
It was an idiotic thing to do."

"Because?" Mount Dunstan for the moment had lost his head. Anstruthers had maddeningly paused.

"She answered that if it became necessary she might perhaps be able to protect herself. She
was as cool and frank as a boy. No air pince about it--merely consciousness of being able to
put things in their right places. Made a mere male relative feel like a fool."

"When ARE things in their right places?" To his credit be it spoken, Mount Dunstan managed
to say it as if in the mere putting together of idle words. What man likes to be reminded of
his right place! No man wants to be put in his right place. There is always another place which
seems more desirable.

"She knows--if we others do not. I suppose my right place is at Stornham, conducting myself
as the brother-in-law of a fair American should. I suppose yours is here--shut up among your
closed corridors and locked doors. There must be a lot of them in a house like this. Don't
you sometimes feel it too large for you?"

"Always," answered Mount Dunstan.

The fact that he added nothing else and met a rapid side glance with unmoving red-brown eyes
gazing out from under rugged brows, perhaps irritated Anstruthers. He had been rather enjoying
himself, but he had not enjoyed himself enough. There was no denying that his plaything had
not openly flinched. Plainly he was not good at flinching. Anstruthers wondered how far a man
might go. He tried again.

"She likes the place, though she has a natural disdain for its condition. That is practical
American. Things which are going to pieces because money is not spent upon them--mere money,
of which all the people who count for anything have so much--are inevitably rather disdained.
They are 'out of it.' But she likes the estate." As he watched Mount Dunstan he felt sure he
had got it at last--the right thing. "If you were a duke with fifty thousand a year," with
a distinctly nasty, amicably humorous, faint laugh, "she would--by the Lord, I believe, she
would take it over--and you with it."

Mount Dunstan got up. In his rough walking tweeds he looked over-big--and heavy--and perilous.
For two seconds Nigel Anstruthers would not have been surprised if he had without warning slapped
his face, or knocked him over, or whirled him out of his chair and kicked him. He would not
have liked it, but--for two seconds--it would have been no surprise. In fact, he instinctively
braced his not too firm muscles. But nothing of the sort occurred. During the two seconds--perhaps
three--Mount Dunstan stood still and looked down at him. The brief space at an end, he walked
over to the hearth and stood with his back to the big fireplace.

"You don't like her," he said, and his manner was that of a man dealing with a matter of fact.
"Why do you talk about her?"

He had got away again--quite away.

An ugly flush shot over Anstruthers' face. There was one more thing to say--whether it was
idiotic to say it or not. Things can always be denied afterwards, should denial appear necessary--and
for the moment his special devil possessed him.

"I do not like her!" And his mouth twisted. "Do I not? I am not an old woman. I am a man--like
others. I chance to like her--too much."

There was a short silence. Mount Dunstan broke it.

"Then," he remarked, "you had better emigrate to some country with a climate which suits you.
I should say that England--for the present--does not."

"I shall stay where I am," answered Anstruthers, with a slight hoarseness of voice, which made
it necessary for him to clear his throat. "I shall stay where she is. I will have that satisfaction,
at least. She does not mind. I am only a racketty, middle-aged brother-in-law, and she can
take care of herself. As I told you, she has the spirit of the huntress."

"Look here," said Mount Dunstan, quite without haste, and with an iron civility. "I am going
to take the liberty of suggesting something. If this thing is true, it would be as well not
to talk about it." In 1792, under the government of Zamora population was divided Magdalena San-Ramon
form, in 1794 founded the mission of the Indians Chapacuras Carmen, and in 1796 San-Joaquin
was transferred, but soon after and were content to send people in Santa Cruz to govern Moxos.

Duration of the war of independence, the province saw Moxos be entirely abandoned, and stayed out
of political contests that from 1810 to 1824 shook the rest the continent. Acordáronse it though
to make it contribute to the treasures of their churches. The jewels of the Virgin and the
saints had been pulled above and only the silver-plated altars, which perhaps could not remove
by been given to weight stocks, but in 1814 the General Aguilera, destitute to support the
Spanish troops sent to Santa Cruz to his brother for robbing from each Church part of their ornaments:
San-Pedro only gave seven hundred and four pounds solid silver.

The rigidity of the Governor Velasco raised in 1820 the first independence
among Indians and authority.

Complainant unfairly this governor, the chief of San-Pedro, called Maras did come into his
presence and sent him lay his cane, distinctive power. Négose to this the chief, arguing that God
had given this privilege. Anger at being blind disobeyed by an Indian, killed Velasco Marasa unhappy
with a pistol in his chest. The son of the victim, attracted by the cries of the judges, came
to collect the body of his father, and immediately to the Canichana revolted against the governor,
who was imprisoned with his soldiers in the former Jesuit college, with occasionally some downloads
on Indians, whose irritation rising step, I booted cries of despair and vengeance. Finally, unable
to enter the school, huddled around him, in spite of fire asset of the besieged, the fat found
in stores, and flames soon to seize the building. Forced to leave the governor died at the hands of
the Indians along with most of his soldiers. The precious archives of the province, which contained
all manuscript work of the Jesuits, were entirely consumed in this fire.

Later, troops were sent to Santa Cruz to the Canichana sugetar San-Pedro, and this mission, which
had been until then capital of the province, gave his rank to Trinidad
and was transferred to another point.

Moxos has fallen steadily, and in 1829 its revenues were not enough twenty thousand pesos, while
in time the Jesuits had reached sixty thousand.

In 1830 the province was governed by Don Matias Carrasco, educated
man and benevolent they took great care reform abuses, but discontent
employee comportacion junior, left his post and return to Cochabamba,
his homeland, published under the title synoptic description of an
interesting booklet Moxos [1] which indicates infinite abuse, and
advocates enardecidamente for freedom for the people of Moxos.

In 1831, during my stay in Chiquitos, the government proposed to establish between this province
Moxos and an exchange of salt for horses, so he had to either agree of course.

The following year, after having traveled throughout the Moxos in order to examine circumstantially,
I went back on track for its plains towards the mountains, carried
the attempt to find a way of communication less dangerous than Palta-Cueva,
and willing, while in Cochabamba to overtake the President of the
Republic in order to submit its review my plans for improvement and
reform, applicable to the general administration of the Moxos province
in particular benefit of its inhabitants.

When they had seen in the case of appreciate the excellent character and good nature of Cayuvava, asked
the governor to give me some rowers Exaltation to drive my canoes, and prepared for this long
journey of three hundred to four hundred leagues, at least, started to climb up the country
of Yuracares, where I walked by savage countries, the most rugged in the world until they came
to Cochabamba in June 10, 1832. I went to see without delay to the President and spoke of the
province of Moxos, giving one of many abuses that were committed there, and exposes the means
of reform that seemed appropriate. After listening to me carefully chosen to write me a detailed
report, according to Mr. Carrasco, to serve as a guide to the new governor who was to command,
and the Bishop of Santa-Cruz, whom was imposed the duty to visit the province to reform caring
religious abuses. Introduce also my plan to open a new path of communication with Moxos, plan
it adopted, expressing some misgivings about the risks to which I was to ESPON. I finally the satisfaction
of seeing that everything went out the wording of my desires, and that I had not brought to no avail
my good offices for the sake of the poor Indians of the missions.

I left Cochabamba July 2 to conduct my business. I climbed the mountain first Tiquipaya, even
Tutulima found no obstacles in my way. Leaving this place, last lived, walked through the side
of the river and cerranía Tutulima of Paracti, finding on the other side of the Yuracarés
nation, with whom I built a canoe continuing then the river Securi, I, at forty days of excruciating
journey, to the province Moxos completely satisfied with the successful outcome of my adventure
resolution.

Meanwhile, my company had been frowned upon by some employees of Moxos, which being sent from
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, worry did not stop with the establishment of a more abbreviated communication
by way of Cachabamba. Awaked the old rivalries and Then came a sad event to mess up the forecast.

Col.
Davila, whom I had left in Cochabamba, and soon to depart for Moxos with mission to operate the
numerous reforms, which in concert with him we had Mr. Carrasco indicated
the benefit of the unfortunate inhabitants of this province, had to
succumb to strong impulses that had befallen colic in the evening
before their departure, to the Within hours of being in your home
from a party.

Such was the sad news brought by canoes, which had gone for Isiboro. I saw it with feeling
that is rendered useless much effort as I had done to get the improvement of the condition of
indigenous inhabiting these remote regions.

On September 8, following the course of the river Piray, I found the bishop of Santa-Cruz, which
was commissioned by the government to visit the province of Moxos, to extirpate in her religious
abuse. A sandbar toilet served us for twenty-four hours, at which period had a long conference
with Mr. Cordova illustrísimo, educated personage and very friendly, about the sorry state
of the province of Moxos, telling me means I appeared as leading to the sauté of abuse of
all kinds, ranging daily auento. I then tried a moment of satisfaction, finding in this worthy prelate
protector solicitous of humanity, ready to bring into play all the strings to make ends both wanted,
improving the condition of the Indians.

I found myself in Moxos in 1832, Mr. Carmelo Rivera, acting governor of the province, tried
to suppress the riots and purge the country of those speculators and dishonest employees, taking
to do a crackdown. Sent wagered on all roads, emissaries charge of possession of the canoes
loaded, then check in the capital goods the year that they drove. This measure failed to produce
the desired effect. All managers were caught with more fruit on his property, that the party intended
to the State, no testimony was needed lighter lawless that made use of its functions, and
the party that drew the poor Indians, using the authority they had
over them to make them work as slaves.

Fully convicted of so much guilt were all dismissed on the spot.

STATE OF THE PROVINCE

Policy Division.

It is to believe, what happened to the missions of Paraguay [1], that the preservation of Jesuit
institutions, under different governments that have happened in the period sixty-five years
has prevented the destruction of Moxos missions, as well, visiting I the province in 1832,
I found, with men as rulers, with different customs prosperity and
well below, all still intact and administrative institutions religious
missionaries who had left in 1767, a time of their expulsion.

With the suppression of four missions, under the administration of the priests [1], and the
creation del Carmen and San-Ramon-time governors [2], the province currently consists thirteen
inhabited areas, which are generally divided into two parties, one called Mamore and Pampas
and the other Itonama and Baures. The first consists of Trinidad, Loreto, San-Xavier, St. Ignatius,
San-Pedro, of exaltation, of Santa Ana and Kings. The second contains missions San-Ramon, San-Joaquin,
Magdalena, Concepcion and Carmen.

Party Mamore and Pampas.

TRINIDAD.

The mission of Trinidad, one of the oldest in the province, was founded
by the Jesuits in 1687.

She is the center of a vast plain that is located three miles east
of Mamore, and as to two Ivari river, its surroundings, very dry in
the winter and flooded in summer, lack of trees: there towards the
east a large lake, a quarter of a mile distant from people.

Its population, made up of Indians Moxos, amounted, in 1691, the
number of 2200 fifty-three [1], and in 1824 came this mission to be
the capital of the province.

His church is vast and beautiful architecture, though somewhat overloaded with sculptures wood.
The Government House, which has a high floor, is large and quite comfortable. This village similar
to all others in terms of its circulation, exercises the same kind of Concepcion industry and Saint
Xavier.

Its original inhabitants of the nation all moxa, and come to two thousand and four, are kindly
in the extreme, they begin to become civilized and dress and as in inner cities. Some women have
also adopted the dress belt, adjusted at the waist.

Every year for Passover, they leave managers of the province their respective missions, to make
his way to the capital, leading productions of the year. On arrival of each boat, many merchants
who came from Santa-Cruz, attempt to deceive the poor Indians, not
it will heal completely ignoring the value of items received in exchange
for cocoa and other fruits.

Trinidad is the residence of the vicar general of the province, the governor, and secretary
which carries the title of general manager.

Trinity Road to San Xavier.

There are twelve miles from Trinidad to St. Xavier, which is towards
the north, to pave the Instead, it is necessary to cross the plains
on horseback planted here and there carondais palms, While for the
conveyance of goods is lowered as a league and a half, the plain of
west to the river Ivari by which it follows, carrying cargoes canoes.

This river born in the country of Guarayos, crossing to the southeast across the plain, on
more than two degrees long, receiving many tributaries in its course, and then going to four
miles from the Loreto mission, not far from the mission of Trinity, to go and lost an arm of
Mamore; still running some time longer, parallel to the river, before meeting him definitely.
The island formed by these two rivers, is covered with beautiful plantations of bananas, for cassava
and other various fruits, such as cocoa, which also is grown wild in boscages the banks, giving
abundant crops every year. After having continued for half a day Ivari countless rodeos, you get
the Mamore. The junction formed by these rivers is perhaps of all parts of the province, the most
dangerous for seafarers, as chócanse Both strands him with extreme violence, raising tides and
swirling foam, where the flimsy boats sink: every year there are numerous examples of such failures.
From this confluence of the Mamore edges are trimmed with magnificent forests, and also of swamps,
to the port of San-Xavier, which lies about two leagues from the mission.

Trinidad roads to Loreto.

Loreto far little about twelve miles southeast of Trinidad. In the dry season make this journey across
the beautiful plains covered with palm trees here and there carondais.

Firstly it runs along the stream of Trinidad, you pass this on followed
by a period, as a mile away from a stay of the mission, we publish
a thin stream that crosses by a marsh, and a little later the San-Miguel
stay where they are many cattle.

Leaving this place is the middle of the road, cross the San-Miguel Curichi bathed spacious,
and after having traveled two leagues we present the river which at all times Ivari is necessary to
pass in canoes, two leagues beyond is the residence of San-Antonio and the stream of the same
name, amid some bushes, where there are also beautiful pasture. A league of plains is the remainder
of the road from this point to Loreto.

The distance from Trinidad to Loreto, going down the river, is three times larger, and generally
two days are used to make this journey. First the river was up to its confluence Ivari Mamore
arm. Most notable is the contrast that at this point is presented to the eyes the traveler.
The Ivari, coming down from the marshes to the east of the country
of Guarayos clear water very slowly, although black sheen, while the
arm Mamore near muddy red exes run with speed.

You have to walk through this arm as a league, passing through the middle of fields covered with
bananas, to lead in the Mamore. Some of its corners are filled with trees uprooted by the current,
and that have been piling up little by little in those places. In the dry season passes night
on a sandbar, with sand right and left and steep slopes, that continually undermined by water,
usually collapsed with a crash, promoting corpulent waves that failure to fund thrown vessels,
filled with water, damaged the cargo; so the Indians are forced to watch all night, to avoid
damage semejentes. Continuing the journey passes through you pocket two large lakes which
are to the right, and soon comes the big mouth of a river called Securi, coming down from the
mountains of Yuracaré: this river, as wide as the Mamore, and which is more encased riverbed,
was which I discovered when opening the new road from Cochabamba to Moxos. Departing from the
mouth Securi river, to go ahead by the Mamore has finally come to a marsh that is to the right, and
on whose shore is the port of Loreto, located about seven miles the SSE of the mission.

It is composed of two houses that port, the one that is not only a spacious barn to house to travelers,
and the other for the mayor of the port. From this point, which, incidentally for Santa Cruz
de la Sierra or Cachabamba, necessarily attend to the travelers provided of food, goes to Loreto
on horseback through a named extended cacahual, and then a cane to go to a marsh covered with trees,
where it is necessary to bend at every step to avoid the vines, besides taking care not to
trip on the swollen roots that adorn all the ground. It then presents a floodplain, in which
the horses are put to the knees.

A league of port is the residence of Nevis, where there are many cattle, and after to cross
a stream deep enough, you follow a boscage thin and full of water, leading Finally in a flooded
marsh in which water gets to the meetings of the horse. Is need to go at a gallop down the middle
of the marshes and forests to palm carondais get in Loreto. The horses are so accustomed to
these roads, walking for them as safe as the mules in the mountains, and is something that really
surprised to see them save with such skill holes covering all that ground. Finally, after
Tico had crossed the river, through a bridge of logs, is cast in Loreto dismounted.

LORETO.

Our Lady of Loreto, the oldest mission in the province, was founded by the Jesuits in 1684
[1], not far from the Mamore and quite apart from the site it occupies today. Composite Indians
who speak the dialects of moxa, had in 1691 three thousand eight hundred twenty souls. Having moved
in the different times it has been definitely established, after the expulsion of the Jesuits,
between the rivers Tico é Ivari, distant ten leagues the reunion
of the latter river with the arm of the Mamore, and within a beautiful
plain partly trimmed trees, but too wet in summer.

Built like the other missions Moxos, Loreto has a vast and beautiful church, and a chapel attached
to the exterior, near the cemetery. In countries where people content themselves with wild fruits,
it seems very rare to find tree plantations fruit, as in this population, which has a beautiful garden
in which there are guaporus, guyavos, custard apples and other bushes covered with flowers more
colorful. The inhabitants, belonging to the nation of Moxos, and are now reduced the number of
two thousand one hundred forty-five are very industrious and honest.

Moreover, this mission shares the same conditions as other comprising the province.

SAN-FRANCISCO XAVIER.

Jesuits founded the mission of that name in 1690, on the west bank of the river Mamore between the mouths
of rivers and distant Tijamuchi Aper and about eight miles north of Trinidad. To visit the
governor of Santa Cruz in 1691, found in her two thousand three hundred and sixty and souls
that number later accretion to three thousand.

After the expulsion of the Jesuits, this mission was transferred
to the opposite bank, on a broader floodplain in parts, and where
a small stream that communicates with the Mamore facilitates navigation
in the period of rainfall.

The buildings of St.-Xavier de Moxos are still provisional, the school consists only of a low
floor, and the only thing remarkable there is a cross COAB, embedded with the bright pearl from
the shells of fresh water. Industry, compared with the other cantons, is in very good condition,
the tissues are higher and the work joinery and pearl inlays run with much expertise. Its population,
which consists today of 1515 inhabitants of the nation moxa, is also a farmer and harvest large
amount of cocoa annually. These natives are generally good-natured, but somewhat fanatical.
In 1833 had by an Indian chief instructed to play fairly well as a director, and whose integrity
to every test was the most estimable your clothes. St. Xavier is the more uncomfortable by mosquitoes,
to whose stubborn attacks the inhabitants are accustomed, but which are a torment to the travelers
newcomers. The abundance of these insects comes from the vast floodplains, where they form swamps
and temporary lakes covered with reeds.

In 1832 this mission possessed six thousand one hundred seventy-one cattle, one hundred forty
and three horses, donkeys eight hundred and forty-six goats, fifty-one sheep and ten and eight pigs.

Camino
de San-San-Pedro Xavier.

Saint Pierre is located twelve miles north of San-Xavier, in the prolongation of eastern plains of
the Rio Mamore. This journey is done on horseback in the dry season in the rainy season and
to transport goods, it is necessary to do down in dugout canoes by
the Mamore River.

Leaving San-Xavier, takes a stream that winds through the plain between carondais palm groves, and
after having gone about two miles, you come in a marsh on which is the port, which is only
distinguished by their booth and the countless boats moored in it:
there is input immediately Mamore.

Offers this vast river at that point, the same look as above, ie
that its banks are composed modern land also, and are covered by wetlands
which crosses many times to shorten the road, or for not having to
fight against the tide when he travels upstream.

 The man had been a common adventurer and
scoundrel, despite the facts of good birth and the air of decent breeding. If a man who was
as much a scoundrel, but cleverer--it would be necessary that he should be much cleverer--made
the best of himself to Betty----! It was folly to think one could guess what a woman--or a
man, either, for that matter--would love. He knew Betty, but no man knows the thing which comes,
as it were, in the dark and claims its own--whether for good or evil. He had lived long enough
to see beautiful, strong-spirited creatures do strange things, follow strange gods, swept away
into seas of pain by strange waves.

"Even Betty," he had said to himself, now and then. "Even my Betty. Good God--who knows!"

Because of this, he had read each letter with keen eyes. They were long letters, full of detail
and colour, because she knew he enjoyed them. She had a delightful touch. He sometimes felt
as if they walked the English lanes together. His intimacy with her neighbours, and her neighbourhood,
was one of his relaxations. He found himself thinking of old Doby and Mrs. Welden, as a sort
of soporific measure, when he lay awake at night. She had sent photographs of Stornham, of
Dunholm Castle, and of Dole, and had even found an old engraving of Lady Alanby in her youth.
Her evident liking for the Dunholms had pleased him. They were people whose dignity and admirableness
were part of general knowledge. Lord Westholt was plainly a young man of many attractions.
If the two were drawn to each other--and what more natural--all would be well. He wondered
if it would be Westholt. But his love quickened a sagacity which needed no stimulus. He said
to himself in time that, though she liked and admired Westholt, she went no farther. That others
paid court to her he could guess without being told. He had seen the effect she had produced
when she had been at home, and also an unexpected letter to his wife from Milly Bowen had revealed
many things. Milly, having noted Mrs. Vanderpoel's eager anxiety to hear direct news of Lady
Anstruthers, was not the person to let fall from her hand a useful thread of connection. She
had written quite at length, managing adroitly to convey all that she had seen, and all that
she had heard. She had been making a visit within driving distance of Stornham, and had had
the pleasure of meeting both Lady Anstruthers and Miss Vanderpoel at various parties. She was
so sure that Mrs. Vanderpoel would like to hear how well Lady Anstruthers was looking, that
she ventured to write. Betty's effect upon the county was made quite clear, as also was the
interested expectation of her appearance in town next season. Mr. Vanderpoel, perhaps, gathered
more from the letter than his wife did. In her mind, relieved happiness and consternation were
mingled.

"Do you think, Reuben, that Betty will marry that Lord Westholt?" she rather faltered. "He
seems very nice, but I would rather she married an American. I should feel as if I had no girls
at all, if they both lived in England."

"Lady Bowen gives him a good character," her husband said, smiling. "But if anything untoward
happens, Annie, you shall have a house of your own half way between Dunholm Castle and Stornham
Court."

When he had begun to decide that Lord Westholt did not seem to be the man Fate was veering
towards, he not unnaturally cast a mental eye over such other persons as the letters mentioned.
At exactly what period his thought first dwelt a shade anxiously on Mount Dunstan he could
not have told, but he at length became conscious that it so dwelt. He had begun by feeling
an interest in his story, and had asked questions about him, because a situation such as his
suggested query to a man of affairs. Thus, it had been natural that the letters should speak
of him. What she had written had recalled to him certain rumours of the disgraceful old scandal.
Yes, they had been a bad lot. He arranged to put a casual-sounding question or so to certain
persons who knew English society well. What he gathered was not encouraging. The present Lord
Mount Dunstan was considered rather a surly brute, and lived a mysterious sort of life which
might cover many things. It was bad blood, and people were naturally shy of it. Of course,
the man was a pauper, and his place a barrack falling to ruin. There had been something rather
shady in his going to America or Australia a few years ago.

Good looking? Well, so few people had seen him. The lady, who was speaking, had heard that
he was one of those big, rather lumpy men, and had an ill-tempered expression. She always gave
a wide berth to a man who looked nasty-tempered. One or two other persons who had spoken of
him had conveyed to Mr. Vanderpoel about the same amount of vaguely unpromising information.
The episode of G. Selden had been interesting enough, with its suggestions of picturesque contrasts
and combinations. Betty's touch had made the junior salesman attracting. 

The action of this drug on the capillary system, nutrition and interstitial bodies secretory is
asthenic, and readily extends to the nerve centers of the private oscillations stimulating
artistic activity and capillaries. Nutrition is not which essentially altered by this drug, but
rather the nodal innervation, and cerebrospinal later. Organ damage and marasmus always depend
on the inertia nervous. The symptoms that prove this synthesis are:

1. º In the nervous system: anxiety, anxiety with burning burning in the chest region, stupor
and even coma, laxity after sleep, tiredness and heaviness of the limbs, feeling and a general
breakdown of tingling, numbness and stiffness in the same cramps in several parts, abolition
of voluntary movements, paralysis of the extremities, loss of speech, alternative heart palpitations
and quiet, slow breathing, dyspepsia spasmodic twitching of the uterus, violent colic, spasmodic
vomiting, swallowing impossible, dizziness and dilatation of the pupils, impairment of sight,
hearing, even greater voice, moral depletion, numbness in the exterior of the head, diminution
of the intellectual faculties.

These symptoms precede other nervous excitement, and hilarity or bad mood, feeling pleasant light-headedness,
glows and sparkles in their eyes, hearing acuity, exaltation the sense of touch at the tip of the fingers.


Why was it that it happened to be Mount Dunstan he was desirous to hear of? Well, the absolute
reason for that he could not have explained, either. He had asked himself questions on the
subject more than once. There was no well-founded reason, perhaps. If Betty's letters had spoken
of Mount Dunstan and his home, they had also described Lord Westholt and Dunholm Castle. Of
these two men she had certainly spoken more fully than of others. Of Mount Dunstan she had
had more to relate through the incident of G. Selden. He smiled as he realised the importance
of the figure of G. Selden. It was Selden and his broken leg the two men had ridden over from
Mount Dunstan to visit. But for Selden, Betty might not have met Mount Dunstan again. He was
reason enough for all she had said. And yet----! Perhaps, between Betty and himself there existed
the thing which impresses and communicates without words. Perhaps, because their affection
was unusual, they realised each other's emotions. The half-defined anxiety he felt now was
not a new thing, but he confessed to himself that it had been spurred a little by the letter
the last steamer had brought him. It was NOT Lord Westholt, it definitely appeared. He had
asked her to be his wife, and she had declined his proposal.

"I could not have LIKED a man any more without being in love with him," she wrote. "I LIKE
him more than I can say--so much, indeed, that I feel a little depressed by my certainty that
I do not love him."

If she had loved him, the whole matter would have been simplified. If the other man had drawn
her, the thing would not be simple. Her father foresaw all the complications--and he did not
want complications for Betty. Yet emotions were perverse and irresistible things, and the stronger
the creature swayed by them, the more enormous their power. But, as he sat in his easy chair
and thought over it all, the one feeling predominant in his mind was that nothing mattered
but Betty--nothing really mattered but Betty.

In the meantime G. Selden was walking up Fifth Avenue, at once touched and exhilarated by the
stir about him and his sense of home-coming. It was pretty good to be in little old New York
again. The hurried pace of the life about him stimulated his young blood. There were no street
cars in Fifth Avenue, but there were carriages, waggons, carts, motors, all pantingly hurried,
and fretting and struggling when the crowded state of the thoroughfare held them back. The
beautifully dressed women in the carriages wore no light air of being at leisure. It was evident
that they were going to keep engagements, to do things, to achieve objects.

"Something doing. Something doing," was his cheerful self-congratulatory thought. He had spent
his life in the midst of it, he liked it, and it welcomed him back.

The appointment he was on his way to keep thrilled him into an uplifted mood. Once or twice
a half-nervous chuckle broke from him as he tried to realise that he had been given the chance
which a year ago had seemed so impossible that its mere incredibleness had made it a natural
subject for jokes. He was going to call on Reuben S. Vanderpoel, and he was going because Reuben
S. had made an appointment with him.

He wore his London suit of clothes and he felt that he looked pretty decent. He could only
do his best in the matter of bearing. He always thought that, so long as a fellow didn't get
"chesty" and kept his head from swelling, he was all right. Of course he had never been in
one of these swell Fifth Avenue houses, and he felt a bit nervous--but Miss Vanderpoel would
have told her father what sort of fellow he was, and her father was likely to be something
like herself. The house, which had been built since Lady Anstruthers' marriage, was well "up-town,"
and was big and imposing. When a manservant opened the front door, the square hall looked very
splendid to Selden. It was full of light, and of rich furniture, which was like the stuff he
had seen in one or two special shop windows in Fifth Avenue--places where they sold magnificent
gilded or carven coffers and vases, pieces of tapestry and marvellous embroideries, antiquities
from foreign palaces. Though it was quite different, it was as swell in its way as the house
at Mount Dunstan, and there were gleams of pictures on the walls that looked fine, and no mistake.

He was expected. The man led him across the hall to Mr. Vanderpoel's room. After he had announced
his name he closed the door quietly and went away. Mr. Vanderpoel rose from an armchair to
come forward to meet his visitor. He was tall and straight--Betty had inherited her slender
height from him. His well-balanced face suggested the relationship between them. He had a steady
mouth, and eyes which looked as if they saw much and far.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Selden," he said, shaking hands with him. "You have seen my daughters,
and can tell me how they are. Miss Vanderpoel has written to me of you several times."

He asked him to sit down, and as he took his chair Selden felt that he had been right in telling
himself that Reuben S. Vanderpoel would be somehow like his girl. She was a girl, and he was
an elderly man of business, but they were like each other. There was the same kind of straight
way of doing things, and the same straight-seeing look in both of them.

It was queer how natural things seemed, when they really happened to a fellow. Here he was
sitting in a big leather chair and opposite to him in its fellow sat Reuben S. Vanderpoel,
looking at him with friendly eyes. And it seemed all right, too--not as if he had managed to
"butt in," and would find himself politely fired out directly. He might have been one of the
Four Hundred making a call. Reuben S. knew how to make a man feel easy, and no mistake. This
G. Selden observed at once, though he had, in fact, no knowledge of the practical tact which
dealt with him. He found himself answering questions about Lady Anstruthers and her sister,
which led to the opening up of other subjects. He did not realise that he began to express
ingenuous opinions and describe things. His listener's interest led him on, a question here,
a rather pleased laugh there, were encouraging. He had enjoyed himself so much during his stay
in England, and had felt his experiences so greatly to be rejoiced over, that they were easy
to talk of at any time--in fact, it was even a trifle difficult not to talk of them--but, stimulated
by the look which rested on him, by the deft word and ready smile, words flowed readily and
without the restraint of self-consciousness.

"When you think that all of it sort of began with a robin, it's queer enough," he said. "But
for that robin I shouldn't be here, sir," with a boyish laugh. "And he was an English robin--a
little fellow not half the size of the kind that hops about Central Park."

"Let me hear about that," said Mr. Vanderpoel.

It was a good story, and he told it well, though in his own junior salesman phrasing. He began
with his bicycle ride into the green country, his spin over the fine roads, his rest under
the hedge during the shower, and then the song of the robin perched among the fresh wet leafage,
his feathers puffed out, his red young satin-glossed breast pulsating and swelling. His words
were colloquial enough, but they called up the picture.

"Everything sort of glittering with the sunshine on the wet drops, and things smelling good,
like they do after rain--leaves, and grass, and good earth. I tell you it made a fellow feel
as if the whole world was his brother. Seemed to be on a different planet life unfolding four meters above
the crowd immigrant. The waiters were from group to group offering large trays full of sandwiches
and cups of broth, the second snack am. The women exhibited with affected modesty summer clothes
fresh from chests and changed the mutual compliments. Many passengers were dressed in white head
to toe, and also target the domestic ship, players and officials. There were moments when it
seemed the central castle invaded by a crew of Pierrots.

Mrs. Power went alone as usual in their morning walks, straight and not looking at anyone, tulle
hat elegant and striking. Fernando felt at her indecision and timidity, but she, pausing a
moment, came to his aid. Greeted him, asking with an ironic jingle how he had spent the night. Smiled
patronizingly, suggesting that spared Ojeda the big kid prank. Everything was forgotten ...
And he held out a hand before leaving, rate continued its march manly.

Time passed without the deck saw as crowded as on other mornings. Many chairs remained empty.
Serious ladies away their daughters to talk with each mystery voice and gestures of indignation,
as if to say something outrageous. There was no yet published any of those young people whose
friendship Maltrana spoke with enthusiasm. He also remained invisible, and so his escort Nelida
worshipers.

Dr. Ojeda Zurita passed by inhaling the smoke from his third cigarette morning.

- Few people - he said -. Last night, it seems, was long spree. There should be down a trail
of dead and wounded ... What girl so alive! Act Your Age! ...

And went on, smiling with a tolerance of veteran to think of the follies
of 'Boys'.

It was quiet for telling his valet Andalusian older children snoring in their cabins with
the fatigue of a clear last night but without damage visible.

The music continued to develop its morning as if sounded in a vacuum.

Passed the girls in groups, as well as in the streets of small towns around kiosk concert,
but they lacked in this continuous turn the meeting with young people, accompanied by a friend,
prying eyes and chased them sympathetic.

They were only on deck. Grave men were wanted by the butler, by dint of invitations and requests
getting them into the den. He was going to be there for acclamation the organizing committee of
the party to be held with the passage of the equator.

The concert ended, removing the stands musicians and instruments, and that's when Maltrana made its
appearance. Fernando saw him put his head out the door of a staircase sheepishly. After long hesitation,
finally moved to a shrink. He wore a suit white, glittering, majestic, over which seemed to stand
out in greater relief the ugly great for your face, which were some resemblance to the old Beethoven.

In
his cautious gait, twisted his face towards the sea side, looking
down as if afraid be seen.

With groups of noble women, their politeness was stronger than fear. "Hello ..." But the ladies
answered her greeting on his lips, his eyes following him and looking
serious then between them ... "This was also the culprits."

And the whole weight of his indignation mutely on Maltrana downloaded,
the first who dared to appear before them.

Ojeda, to shake his hand, noticed his tendency to turn his face toward
the sea, avoiding the left side, and sudden movement made him get
ahead.

- But what creature you have there?

...

Pointing, laughing, pale swelling of the temple that extended to one eye.

- It's nothing - stammered Isidro -; little thing ... I'll explain.

And to divert the conversation, looked at the feet to the chest in a gesture of pride.

- Huh? ... What about the outfit? I have other more than this ... Any guess what is Margarita's
work, my boss!

But Ojeda was not to be misled by such words, and continued laughing with his eyes disfiguring
bruise on his friend.

- When you get tired to laugh, tell - said Maltrana, something amostazado
-.

But do not you see that we are looking at these worthy ladies? ... Know them, and do not want
to lose your friendship.

Speak much ease of scandals in Europe, have decided not intended
to shy away from nothing, to not make them for a delayed, but everything
is clean outside, and when you strip costumes and additives in Paris,
are identical to our ladies from the provinces ... As I passed their
cabins sometimes look through the open door: the sink, miraculous
images as frames or portable indigenous or imported, in a bowling
bed, a rosary and more pictures ... I have fear that I blame myself,
I am the more unhappy.

I fear that in a good place to leave your children and your children's
friends, say it was I who organized last night ... And I have interest
in being right with the world, to keep my friendships.

Fernando could not contain his impatience. "But what was it last night Maltrana ?...» smiled as
if he remembered something and said, imitating his friend, with dramatic intonation:

- I'm miserable ... Feels miserable and self loathing.

But before Ferdinand could get upset about this memory, he hastened
to add:

- Last night was a lesson, a lesson of things and names:
a "spree", a "regrind" as my friends say several republics.

Last night I also discovered what is "cured" and I was cured so neatly, that here I have a hellish
thirst, and this motif with an eye ... But I do not regret, what cute boys! Give glory to have
friends as loving. About me called Galician other surnamed me Goth. Have you noticed what
a variety of nicknames love enjoy the Spanish in the Spanish-speaking Latin?

- Yes, and in other republics call us Spaniards, Paton, Saracens and
who knows what else.

Could a treatise written geographic-apodesco for clarity in the Spanish-American relations ... But
are family jokes that do not deserve attention: forward.

And Maltrana described the intimate party in the smoking room after the dance, when the serious ladies
their daughters had gone to the cabins and on deck there was only occasional Mr. delivered to
your usual walk before going to bed. Poker players had finished their games, wisely, seeing
the room invaded by a gang of madmen shouted speeches climbing on tables, lots of gym rehearsing with
chairs or tended in the foot by placing sofas in the treetops.

- The poor bartender, friend Ojeda, the blond mustache Kaiser, constantly
moving from one table to another, uncorking bottles of champagne,
filling glasses, collecting soil broken glass.

At first they were for groups: the American side, the other Yankees and the British, the Germans
beyond, trying to outdo each neighbor in generosity.

A table ordered two bottles, the other three, the other four, and all sang, inserting in artist
known or animal sounds fantastic ... We expected the arrival of the ladies: a few singers who
had promised not to know who, maybe one, exciting presence. Time passed and did not come. Some
friends talked seriously of going to the cabin for Nelida bring to the party and beat up his
brother, became gloomy proposition that the Belgian and German, as if each part is believed by the depositary
of the girl's honor.

Maltrana paused, as if afraid to say too much, but with the curiosity of his friend continued forward.

-
A Chilean strongman, a great friend of mine, stood up with resolve. "Hey, godito: let's see
if we bring some of these ladies. "Down in a corridor, we caught two Polish singers who were
peacefully from one place to his cabin, and my friend the rose nearly athlete on wings without understanding
the words. Great success! The two are black, thin, air of Roma, but will never in his life
so admired and gifts. And when the poor things I had drinks many glasses, looking at all the
superiority which provides the scarcity of paper, and torn between the lords amassed around
them, yelling and contracting in the seat as if under the table tickling a troop of rats Butler enters
the oversteward, looking intently, without seeing us, as if existiésemos, and his few words
were enough German to go out and heads bowed and fearful, just as some girls to reprimand the teacher
... Well say society Mujeri softens the harshness of the men.

As soon as we were alone ... battle.

A others berated for being too bold, making them responsible for the shock and two pigeons flapping
innocent. Suddenly, a punch ... and the smoking was the sale of Don Quixote. All felt the need to
hit without knowing who, two brothers were clubbed unknown, the bocks and glasses were on the
air. I was torn between fleeing or make peace, and in the middle of my hesitation I reached this
caress ... Believe me it hurts, but the show worth to be seen. Too bad you did not witness
it.

Ojeda bowed with ironic appreciation. "Thank you."

- The calm was restored through the intervention of some sailors who cleaned cover and the threat of
Butler introduced by the windows irrigation hoses ... Reborn with quiet good agreement, all
asking the same thing: more champagne. And it was time where the bar is closed, many provisions made,
keeping the bottles under the tables. A poignant tenderness seized assistance. Everyone is scratching
the bumps or managed scratches the suit, gazing lovingly neighbor. Argentine and Chilean crossed
Drinking with noisy as fraternity. No more Andes! They alone are sufficient to conquer the world! And
suddenly coalesced, looked the other fiercely.

- And what did the other? - Asked Ojeda.

- The friend Perez and other various republics demanded drink in hand into the confederation. Brothers,
all brothers! And they embraced with tears of tenderness, cheering land Hispanic. A Brazilian
hinted sweetly restrained and polite language: "You were senhores
...». licença dao And Brazil also entered in the grand alliance.

Viva Latin America! ... Someone noticed my humble person and adornments with one eye. "Ah, poor
Galleguitos nice! "and broke into cheers for the 'mother country', the old Spain, extolling sadly,
as if they spoke of a grandmother they had been dead for years.

Cups I came to the mouth by the dozen, as if to drown. Some clung to me, getting rained on
neck with tears of drunkenness. Have on the Peninsula do not know how many relatives Dukes and
Marquis, still keep old papers at home ancient nobility, and asked me my address in Buenos Aires
to send them, as if that might be interested ... Then, somehow, the Yankees also came to clash
their glasses. Hooray for America! America on the rest the world! ...

But this hurricane of fraternity had been too impetuous to stay within the limits a continent, and
from the seas spread over Europe.

In the end, British, German, French and Belgian entered the grand
alliance.

Universal confederation Viva!

- And a little English - continued Maltrana - you've seen with your plaid suit and his pipe,
shed tears at the top, repeating with a stubborn drunken incoherence: "I have entered the ship with
a pure heart and pure love out of it ...». The butler entered each time to say it was two, which
were the three, who were the four and had to close the smoking room, but nobody understood.
Some snoring lying on the sidewalk; others hesitantly away, returned with a pale, with the shirt
front stained. Suddenly the lights went out and we pushing, between shouts of protest. We talked
a bit to kill the butler, but he had disappeared.

- "And were you to sleep? - Asked Ojeda.

- No, sir, a festival of this kind does not end so soon. I saw not know how, in a corridor down
with two bottles in hand and a friend on each side. As he went, his legs as if they were soft
cotton, we got past all the shoes deposited at the entrance to the cabin ... We saw a few friends
who hit a door, bending to talk through the keyhole. Were the cabins of the French ladies ordered
and morality, who went to bed without witnessing the dancing and were sleeping with honored industrial
tranquility of a vacation. "A hundred marks," suggested one. "Five hundred fifty ', hinted at
another, angered by the silence. "Mil ... Two thousand ... "We let them dropping figures at the
gates dark and still. It was the same as if they were propositions a cemetery.

Isidro increasingly spoke slowly, as if you were to approach the greatest difficulty in story and
think through way through it.

- Then we met a German friend who was going to wake the doctor, his head dripping blood. He had
fallen from a ladder, pounding on the edges of the steps, which are bronze ... I also was attracted
to the door and started hitting my neighbor, mystery man, the character
of Hoffmann.

Needed to talk to him, inviting him to rise, bebiésemos for a drink
together and introduce you to my friends.

"Sal, do not be afraid: I know. You are Sherlock Holmes ... "A drunken craze late gripped me.
And then I started banging on the door neighbor, the mystery, struggling
to open.

I had gotten head that the friend had hidden Holmes in this cabin on a Russian princess who
travels incognito and going to marry a tribal chief of the Gran Chaco. Fantasies of alcohol, dear
Ojeda. And the two companions, less drunk than me, tried to dissuade me tearing away. "My friend,
do not leseras ..." "Mate, do not be stubborn." And finally able to get into my room and lie down,
and there have been until I woke up the music ... A bath at all haste, and dressed in the sailor
suit who kept loving forward from we embarked, I had little desire to show it off! ... Huh?
What do you think the outfit my landlady? ...

Ojeda looked at him with mock severity.

- Okay, Isidro. Nice way to go in search of a new life. You are being trained for the job.

-
Bah! It is the sea, the demoralizing influence of the sea. Since I heard you last night. Here we
other than on land, perhaps more spontaneous, more real. The isolation, cohabitation, deprive us
of our packaging and appears as beautiful beast is excited by nuisance,
eager to entertain with something.

And as navigation is extended, we will be more equal, more siblings, with the largest number
of "animalia"

... Man has always been the same at sea. Remember the old travel to India and Oceania. Teachers
the ships picked up the swords of the gentry, not to return until
the end of the trip.

All agreed during navigation challenge was not valid to jump ashore. Those trips were of months
and days of ours are, but represent the same, because we live and feel faster than our grandparents
... Do not pass you care: I will recover sanity when the last port, and all do the same. Maybe
that's why you say that the friendships made on a vessel rarely linger on earth. They are
people too intimacy, and then when they meet, greet away with the smile of a good memory; but avoids
the time, as if they had known in a dishonorable adventure.

A monstrous roar startled many ladies in their seats. It was the ship's whistle, giving the signal
noon.

- Lunchtime - Maltrana said cheerfully -. I have a hunger! ... Have you noticed how to whet the
appetite of misconduct?

In the anteroom agolpábanse travelers facing a long table covered with different dishes: bowls
of salad, ham and sausage pieces on their faces showing the black red mosaic truffles buried in
huge eels gelatin colored frankfurters light pink and drugstore perfume, floating in liquid salt
anchovies, boats showing between the teeth of brass just cut the green granulento caviar. The
hand of a cook going from one extreme to another table, armed with a fork, placing these appetizers
dishes lunch at the pleasure of the passengers.

Many onlookers stopped in front of a large clock controlled from the
bridge by a stream power, and changed their watches under throwback
who had just given the needles.

Every day the sun reaching its maximum height, had to slow down the time ten minutes. Other passengers
were arguing before a Tabloncillo in which the letter was navigation, surveying the ocean blue
stain pins with flags dotted Germanic. Each pin was placed at noon, and open space between two of them represented
a voyage, twenty-four hours of navigation. The flags came out of the North Sea and were lining
up along the coast of Europe to move forward in the Atlantic. The last just stuck there stood,
between the Canaries and Cape Verde.

Below, the clean sea, the immense sea, blue spot no bigger than the palm of your hand, but
crossed by black lines grades, accounting for days. Many were missing for everyone to reach its
destination! ... And dominated by concern of speed, criticized the motion of the ship, accusing the
company of greed at the expense of coal, disputing the number of
miles should go, making bets on the voyage the next day.

Upon entering the room, Maltrana was greeted by his fellow diners with malicious winks. The
old doctor Rubau, always in black, seemed to sympathize with a gesture of fatigue, the illusions
of life.

"Ah, youth, youth had left !...» not sleep peacefully much of the night. They had also called
his cabin, the wrong door to propose the keyhole monstrous, that did not quite understand the awkwardness
of interrupted sleep.

Munster hide his anger with a smile of resignation. Had resigned from the bridge in last night for
lack of companions, forcibly taking refuge in poker, and when after to lose a hundred marks
began to recover their money, the invasion of a troop expelled him crazy coffee as the other "serious
people."

- And you, sir Maltrana, not a child, and had to leave for the boys these feats inappropriate of age.

The
jeweler, silently angry with his white hair and wrinkles, age liked
others, thinking thereby rejuvenate, and therefore insisted on increasing
the years of Isidro ignoring their protests.

Entered the room slowly all the young men who had remained hidden
until then in their cabins.

Some advanced hastily, pretending to be preoccupied with some thought of importance. Others challenged
the curiosity, arrogantly flaunting bad erosions masked by the barber with rice powder. Americans
uncovering champagne lunch and shouting the same thing the night
before, insensible to fatigue and racking fluids.

In the tables of families, moms welcomed their children with eyes
of severity and tight-lipped, but those out of step saluting "their
old" with an indifferent air, as if they had seen moments earlier.

After lunch, Mrs. Fernando Power met on the steps of winter garden
and together they went to sit in the place usually occupied by her
compatriots with a partner.

Ojeda, after being presented to Lowe husbands, remained there as
if he were family.

"Already accounted for the Yankees - he thought
Maltrana -. Now the lady was a fan and it shows invited to write in
it ... Want verses, perhaps love poems. Let the friend Ojeda follow
your destiny. "

And when they hesitated between holding a free table
or go to the den in search of his friends merchants Spanish, was named
by Dr. Zurita, lounging in an armchair, he showed a role.

- Che,
Maltrana, come here. But have you seen how cute are these gringos?
...

He showed the list of the organizing committee of the party equatorial
up one hour before under the direction of the butler. A chance for
it to sell at a good price, kinds of awards, all items purchased shoddy
foresight in Hamburg.

- Look, hey, in honor presidents. Certainly, as a self-invited guest in his house, she could scarcely protest against
the amiability of his demeanour and his exterior courtesy and attentiveness of manner in his
conduct towards her. She had tried to sweep away the objectionable quality in his bearing,
by frankness, by indifference, by entire lack of response, but she had remained conscious of
its increasing as a spider's web might increase as the spider spun it quietly over one, throwing
out threads so impalpable that one could not brush them away because they were too slight to
be seen. She was aware that in the first years of his married life he had alternately resented
the scarcity of the invitations sent them and rudely refused such as were received. Since he
had returned to find her at Stornham, he had insisted that no invitations should be declined,
and had escorted his wife and herself wherever they went. What could have been conventionally
more proper--what more improper than that he should have persistently have remained at home?
And yet there came a time when, as they three drove together at night in the closed carriage,
Betty was conscious that, as he sat opposite to her in the dark, when he spoke, when he touched
her in arranging the robe over her, or opening or shutting the window, he subtly, but persistently,
conveyed that the personalness of his voice, look, and physical nearness was a sort of hideous
confidence between them which they were cleverly concealing from Rosalie and the outside world.

When she rode about the country, he had a way of appearing at some turning and making himself
her companion, riding too closely at her side, and assuming a noticeable air of being engaged
in meaningly confidential talk. Once, when he had been leaning towards her with an audaciously
tender manner, they had been passed by the Dunholm carriage, and Lady Dunholm and the friend
driving with her had evidently tried not to look surprised. Lady Alanby, meeting them in the
same way at another time, had put up her glasses and stared in open disapproval. She might
admire a strikingly handsome American girl, but her favour would not last through any such
vulgar silliness as flirtations with disgraceful brothers-in-law. When Betty strolled about
the park or the lanes, she much too often encountered Sir Nigel strolling also, and knew that
he did not mean to allow her to rid herself of him. In public, he made a point of keeping observably
close to her, of hovering in her vicinity and looking on at all she did with eyes she rebelled
against finding fixed on her each time she was obliged to turn in his direction. He had a fashion
of coming to her side and speaking in a dropped voice, which excluded others, as a favoured
lover might. She had seen both men and women glance at her in half-embarrassment at their sudden
sense of finding themselves slightly de trop. She had said aloud to him on one such occasion--and
she had said it with smiling casualness for the benefit of Lady Alanby, to whom she had been
talking:

"Don't alarm me by dropping your voice, Nigel. I am easily frightened--and Lady Alanby will
think we are conspirators."

For an instant he was taken by surprise. He had been pleased to believe that there was no way
in which she could defend herself, unless she would condescend to something stupidly like a
scene. He flushed and drew himself up.

"I beg your pardon, my dear Betty," he said, and walked away with the manner of an offended
adorer, leaving her to realise an odiously unpleasant truth--which is that there are incidents
only made more inexplicable by an effort to explain. She saw also that he was quite aware of
this, and that his offended departure was a brilliant inspiration, and had left her, as it
were, in the lurch. To have said to Lady Alanby: "My brother-in-law, in whose house I am merely
staying for my sister's sake, is trying to lead you to believe that I allow him to make love
to me," would have suggested either folly or insanity on her own part. As it was--after a glance
at Sir Nigel's stiffly retreating back--Lady Alanby merely looked away with a wholly uninviting
expression.

When Betty spoke to him afterwards, haughtily and with determination, he laughed.

"My dearest girl," he said, "if I watch you with interest and drop my voice when I get a chance
to speak to you, I only do what every other man does, and I do it because you are an alluring
young woman--which no one is more perfectly aware of than yourself. Your pretence that you
do not know you are alluring is the most captivating thing about you. And what do you think
of doing if I continue to offend you? Do you propose to desert us--to leave poor Rosalie to
sink back again into the bundle of old clothes she was when you came? For Heaven's sake, don't
do that!"

All that his words suggested took form before her vividly. How well he understood what he was
saying. But she answered him bravely.

"No. I do not mean to do that."

He watched her for a few seconds. There was curiosity in his eyes.

"Don't make the mistake of imagining that I will let my wife go with you to America," he said
next. "She is as far off from that as she was when I brought her to Stornham. I have told her
so. A man cannot tie his wife to the bedpost in these days, but he can make her efforts to
leave him so decidedly unpleasant that decent women prefer to stay at home and take what is
coming. I have seen that often enough 'to bank on it,' if I may quote your American friends."

"Do you remember my once saying," Betty remarked, "that when a woman has been PROPERLY ill-treated
the time comes when nothing matters--nothing but release from the life she loathes?"

"Yes," he answered. "And to you nothing would matter but--excuse my saying it--your own damnable,
headstrong pride. But Rosalie is different. Everything matters to her. And you will find it
so, my dear girl."

And that this was at least half true was brought home to her by the fact that late the same
night Rosy came to her white with crying.

"It is not your fault, Betty," she said. "Don't think that I think it is your fault, but he
has been in my room in one of those humours when he seems like a devil. He thinks you will
go back to America and try to take me with you. But, Betty, you must not think about me. It
will be better for you to go. I have seen you again. I have had you for--for a time. You will
be safer at home with father and mother."

Betty laid a hand on her shoulder and looked at her fixedly.

"What is it, Rosy?" she said. "What is it he does to you--that makes you like this?"

"I don't know--but that he makes me feel that there is nothing but evil and lies in the world
and nothing can help one against them. Those things he says about everyone--men and women--things
one can't repeat--make me sick. And when I try to deny them, he laughs."

"Does he say things about me?" Betty inquired, very quietly, and suddenly Rosalie threw her
arms round her.

"Betty, darling," she cried, "go home--go home. You must not stay here."

"When I go, you will go with me," Betty answered. "I am not going back to mother without you."

She made a collection of many facts before their interview was at an end, and they parted for
the night. Among the first was that Nigel had prepared for certain possibilities as wise holders
of a fortress prepare for siege. A rather long sitting alone over whisky and soda had, without
making him loquacious, heated his blood in such a manner as led him to be less subtle than
usual. Drink did not make him drunk, but malignant, and when a man is in the malignant mood,
he forgets his cleverness. So he revealed more than he absolutely intended. It was to be gathered
that he did not mean to permit his wife to leave him, even for a visit; he would not allow
himself to be made ridiculous by such a thing. A man who could not control his wife was a fool
and deserved to be a laughing-stock. Mercury also has the specificity of be the antidote
to the syphilitic virus, but did not attack more than in the domain system node.

One author has characterized perfectly mercury venous-lymphatic "medicinal products. This word includes
all the effects of mercury. There is no body that are not affected, because there is also
one in which not some elements of the lymphatic system as an integral part or like relationship.
As to particular organs, here is the order in which they are according to its relations with
the effects of mercury, and according to the susceptibility to be modified more easily: the
salivary glands and tonsils, uvula, soft palate, the palate, tongue, teeth, gums, pharynx and
larynx, organs genito-urinary, eyes, nose, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, liver, joints, etc.

The
progression of their influence on the nervous system is this: agitation, endolorimiento of whole body,
brokenness, weakness, tremors, convulsive movements, cramps, rigidity,
resolution of the radical forces, excitability, extremity pain sensitivity,
paralysis.

In the blood system expresses himself thus: congestive even violent movements, fluxional, Live
inflammation, burning fever, ESRD.

But in view of their symptoms, these fluxional, these swellings, the fever, are uncertain place, still
faltering, the tissues react, the blood system does not work as quickly and directly by the item
Scythians flegmásico, but in a passive way and feeling the pulse of another system, the node
is the center of action and the point of choice of drug.

The gastric system for its many symptoms: thrush, estomacace, fluxion,
depravity of taste and appetite, nausea, saliva flow of brackish water
in the mouth, vomiting, bitter hiccups, burning pain, tenderness and
swelling in the liver, stomach hard and tympanitic, cramps, diarrhea
and dysenteric ....., confirms more and more the state node orgasm
blood with more or less pronounced.

Throughout this set of symptoms, is not gastric essential character, for example, nux vomica,
but a primary condition lymphatic system in the mucous membranes and hair follicles in tissue
and cell meshes in the glands and blood vessels.

After the first prompt and quick impact of drugs on this or that organ, alteration of the nervous
system seems to exhaust its own activity, and since then all it takes chronic march towards the
decomposition, because the last term of the action of mercury is to reduce the cohesion of
the fibers, tissues soften, relax the mesh of cell sheets in which
penetrate and accumulate white juices.

The action of Mercury is to develop more power at night and in bed for the day. This sobreescitacion
of its action begins and ends the night with her, the warmth of the bed increases, the application
the cold but not decreases, and the movement aggravates the condition. It could be said that
this action essentially decompofmg, stops by the solar excitation and diurnal as if the positive
electricity of the day some influence.

The influence of mercury on the moral expresses the nature of its action: after the symptoms of irritability,
the most constant ensuing delinquency of aversion to all occupation of insulseces, and finally
the last period, as the instability and lack of harmony of ideas, the weakness of memory,
disgust to life, auto hobby. The moral solution is in contact with
physics.

Mercury is similar to Aconite in febrile conditions given consideration to the effervescence
blood. But the excitement only exacerbated in cases characteristic of mercury, the nervous excitement
or the erethism produced by the alteration of blood in the sense
impoverishment of the liquid, which is not stimulating enough to hold
plastic nervous system physiologic stability: sanguis moderator nervorum,
mercury work on the lymphatic system, such as aconite on blood pressure.

The

mercury has inflammations own analogy with the bryony, with regard to lymphatic system, but the congestion
and inflammation, mercury deployed higher acuity and faster, and soon arrives, and to suppuration,
and to a waxy buildup, and to the plastic exudation, or induration to the fatigue of the fiber.
It was also noted some analogy from fluxional mobility of mercury and pulsatility, but in the
First, this mobility extends to the nervous and lymphatic systems, and the second originally
spread to the venous blood system.

Mercury is distinguished by the vivacity of arsenic and erethism orgasm initial and the relaxation
that results immediately. Coryza, for example, soon becomes fluent, bronchitis comes to the
expectoration, the abundant flows determine intestinal phlogosis then the fever more pronounced
in a short time leads to the prostration, and stifling heat breaking into a sweat copiously.

The
action of mercury is opposite to that of sulfur, which is why it is so useful to use alternative
of the two in certain chronic conditions that need to accelerate
the course of the disease; sulfur goes to erethism blood and lymphatic
mercury.

There is disturbance to the indication of each other, and can even be said to possess the
property of exciting vitality; Opium does the same, but working directly on the nervous system.
Mercury also is in relation to the plasticity and are therefore as useful as the carbonate cal
in children whose state of lymphatic and inertia seems to prevent or blunt the action of drugs. With
regard to this matter, it is important to note that the action of
mercury varies in different organ systems depending on dose, more
than any other drug.

So So infinitesimal dose works mainly in the area nervous, in lower attenuation, also in massive
doses, works in syphilitic infection and in the vegetative sphere. This observation is one of the most
practical and applicable to all medicines in more or less scale, but is of more importance to
work in conditions designed to virulent and dyscrasias, such as mercury, sulfur, iodine, gold, iron,
potassium carbonate, lime sulfur, etc., is, in short, every day more necessary dosage comprising
all degrees of attenuation quantity of drugs, from a dose of pure substance in solution or
in a state of division it, until the dose so attenuated that only ignorant can doubt. Each
pilot can accurately ensure proper in each case, that all these doses have a real action, positive.
This fact, which is and the domain of science, is the origin of our resources and cause therapeutic
the propagation of the healing art.

Mercury has been used with the idea of ​​communicating to the blood and body fluids to power
refractory to the laws of life and makes them less to own nutrition. This hypothesis does not
some practical utility. We trust that these pages will offer ideas clearer, more practical. Mercury,
toxic, alters the blood making it more fluid, less plastic, and produces cachexia particular,
is true, but you will not be used to develop antiplastics effects general, but to develop
therapeutic effects in harmony with vital actions he modifies and returns to normal as mercury,
like any other drug, develops a healing property directly and not through the medium of phenomena
toxic. These should never be alone and to the exclusion of more symptoms special dynamic and
multiple diagnostic medicine. The toxic effects by Finally, also have particular and distinctive
characters, and can not be classified under a single point of view
to form a single medication.

All mercury salts elective share in the action of mercury in the lymphatic system with the difference
that a directed more particularly its action to the gut mucosa, others to the skin, those producing
more blood orgasm, these more erethism, and some have a more marked weakness. Point out these features
in the following paragraphs aim to indications of mercury and the choice of their preparations.
We will give also the symptoms characteristic of the action of this drug to describe cases
claiming use.

The experience built up has not said its last word on some preparations mercurial and practically
speaking, is that we can not consider them as appropriate. We materialized, therefore, to
indicate the mercury vivo, soluble, calomel, corrosive sublimate,
cinnabar, the protoyoduro of mercury and the Ethiopian mineral.

Each of these preparations may have its and its moment of opportunity in various degrees of evolution
and many other syphilitic diseases.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = febrile illness. Inflammations .-- Notwithstanding the difficulties our object Insite by
the abundance of materials, it brings order to indicate conveniently
many diseases of those periods in which mercury is indicated, this
is the only way to avoid duplication and confusion.

Few own mercury fever with regular pulse, almost always there are some more or less severe strokes
than the others, and even sometimes be seen flashing; pulse irregularity always denotes respect to mercury,
a circulation disorder in in the portal vein system, and a stomach ulcer in the liver has an influence
that can not be ignored.

There is feverish orgasm on the skin surface, pulses in the temples
and superficial arteries, headache with sensation of distension from
the inside out.

The reaction is alive, but without consistency, dominates the device erethism brain and worse
at night, while he has a copious sweating, or bowel movements abundant, large bilious vomiting
and salivary secretion. It also develops large weakness, prostration, chills and heat as puffs,
anxiety without delirium itself says: this always contraindicated
mercury in nervous fevers.

Sinocan fever is characteristic of this drug, you have the following symptoms: big orgasm erethism
and anxiety is a common fever in children and young nodes, is usually the first period and
gastric catarrhal fever. Mercury also plays in the period subacute, with mucous diarrhea, pale
and trembling, not to mention anxiety. Calls for calomel a predominance of the action of the liver
or salivary gland.

In more serious cases, takes on the character fever typhoid are drowsiness, sleepiness, sweating
debilitating integument alternative turgor and some guts, endolorimiento general, burning sensation,
or decomposition of belly.

The Ethiopian sulfide ore or black Mercury is the right choice when typhoid fever was made or that
the system of life the relationship has fallen into inertia, or that the influence of the brain
looks like annihilated or that the abdominal organs are particularly affected, and that there are
senses obtuse stupor, prostration, sooty teeth, tongue and still, dry and black, bloating, pulse
frequent and very weak and yellow diarrhea, bilious.

Dr. Serres (Montpellier) and some physicians have sought to use the properties of mercury in
severe nerve fever in advanced stage, which seems to agree this medicine to natural signs,
but the result was not happy and mercury has been unable to revive the forces and oppose some
kind of solution that appeared be in relation to its effects. Most associated with the Ethiopian
sulfur mineral, mercury acquires an activity that the doctor might use Petroz admirably.

After the rhubarb and camomile, soluble mercury acetate and mercury
are better medicines for children cacoquímicos diarrhea, pale, unhealthy
nutrition, with or without fever.

These two preparations of mercury are perfectly in diarrhea of this age in life where there
are many white juice, and you have fever with drowsiness, aggravation at night, or just heat and
dryness of the mouth. Verminous fever, even serious yields to soluble mercury or alive, if
there is mucous stools, reddish, with tenesmus, burning and excoriation of the anus, earthy appearance
of the skin, excess depletion, and a great discomfort and amount of mucus obstructing the throat.
Mercury is indicated, even when developing symptoms of encephalitis
and convulsions.

In these cases, Recamier used a water in which to boil 15 grams of metallic mercury to 250
of fluid, but the crushing homeopathic are infinitely preferable.

Mercury living is perfectly suited to the period of suppuration of smallpox, both by the throat
symptoms, the condition of the nose and eyes, and restlessness, as dermis by suppuration, in opposition
to the formation of permanent scars. Only yours may sometimes exceed its elective action on
the dermis.

Mercury plays an important role in the treatment of fevers with inflammation of the mucous and slow
its course, shallowness of the affection, erethism, burning pains and tendency to diarrhea and
to ulceration.

It is equally effective in inflammatory conditions, ends when the inflammation serous exudation
or formation of false membranes, and also in suppuration, when the oozing is surrounded by
a swelling or subinflamatoria edematous, the indication is based not only on the movement
of blood breakdown or liquids that are segregated, but in the general
and local characters just to designate and differentiate it from the
bryony ... Mercury is very useful in inflammations internal surfaces
secrete a fluid that altered and periostitis in itself, a new product
which constitutes a exóstose.

Almost always, in all these circumstances, advantageous alternative with bryony mercury or with
belladonna, according to what we indicated to treat these drugs.

It has been recommended much mercury in encephalitis, or rather in the arachnoiditis, especially
at the time threatening to pass the acute hydrocephalus, ie, that this drug is for Fluxion
to the blood rather waxy, or at least during the period of inflammation it begins to separate
serum from blood. But he least thought of, is obtained best results from the first, second
or third trituration of mercury Live at the doses of 5 to 10 Celsius, that large doses of it.

In inflammation of mucous membranes, corresponding to mercury chronic phlogosis crypts follicles
and mucous hypersecretion and tendency to ulceration or induration to. In these conditions
should be counted leucorrheic vaginitis, metritis certain, laryngitis
and Most of the tonsils, and the same pseudo-membranous bronchial
colds and even whooping cough, the grippe, coryza, phthisis mucosa,
dotinenteritis, and in general all conditions follicles.

It is more necessary mercury in their treatment, since is the only way to effectively oppose elective
and indurations, calluses, scirrhus, and to ulcers that so often end these chronic phlogosis mucosal
crypts.

Mercury is indicated for the peak period of all these conditions, by analogy with the nature
and symptoms of the same key, such as anxiety or agitation, depression,
or shivering cold in the fulness of fever, aggravation of the fever
or blood erethism from the start of the night, increased sensitivity
of the affected parts endolorimiento more remarkable for the monkshood
and more blood drug because impoverished or altered blood in its vitality,
not moderated regularly and nervous action, and communicates to the
blood ferment character painful acuity, the more you live, the more
quickly spent to lead a march to chronic thrush without excepting
the children, inflammation follicles of the mucosa of the mouth and
even the entire intestinal tract, in which the cinnabar Mercury is
usually preferable to live, especially if it develops with ulceration;
borax and sulfuric acid are always useful and even necessary in the
last period thrush.

Chronic pneumonia or a tendency to chronicity by lowering the fever, even if multiple lung occupies
many points is fine with mercury alternated with bryony, very powerful means to dispel hepatization
or induration. In hepatitis perenquimatosa calomel is preferable, since in this case is directed
even from the first period phlogosis, corresponding also to all levels of hepatitis, alternatives,
according to the causes and duration of the affection, with aconite, chamomile, bryony, belladonna.

Peritonitis
and inflammation of the synovial membranes seldom fail to reclaim mercury, belladonna and bryony.
In peritonitis, the pains are alive, the sweat weak and not calm,
there is intense sensitivity of the belly, swelling and hardness,
rumbling, gas development, anxiety, yellow face and expresses deep
pain, there is less orgasm blood and nervous excitement for the bryony,
and therefore less thirsty.

Inflammation joint fit to mercury in the same way to the other two drugs, and correspond to
all phases of chronic inflammation and, being smaller, however, sensitivity or at least discomfort.

The swelling of the lymph vessels require mercury, since this affects the lymph areas and on
a given space (adenitis), and is presented along vessels White (angioleucitis) and on the inside
of a limb, as in the thigh. Belladonna in this case is a very useful auxiliary mercury, such
as when the redness pulsatility dark indicates the simultaneous affection of the veins. In these
cases, alternating the two drugs giving a dose every two hours, leaving four to six hours apart
from each other medicine.

We believe this is the occasion to insist on proper diarrhea, dysentery and mercury, which is
that there is always an affection of the mucous follicles, and from
this point view offers a course less acute or less rapidly than others.

This is the dysentery which but it is corrosive sublimate, and can be considered as specific.
The thirst indicates the first period (congestive) rarely disappears, change of object in the second
and third (softening, ulceration), the patient wants then liquor, spirits with which undergoes a
momentary relief. Here is a very important character for indication sublimate, even in this
last period, even non-essential medication ulceration, which corresponds to sulfur, calcium
carbonate, arsenic ... Corrosive sublimate has all the effects of
soluble mercury, but to a degree more energetic and more pronounced.

Mercurial is the best preparation to be used in acute disease appropriate stop and heal quickly.


The girl was regarding him with the expression he most resented--the reflection of a normal
person watching an abnormal one, and studying his abnormality.

"Do you know that you are raving?" she said, with quiet curiosity--"raving?"

Suddenly he sat down on the low mound near him, and as he touched his forehead with his handkerchief,
she saw that his hand actually shook.

"Yes," he answered, panting, "but 'ware my ravings! They mean what they say."

"You do yourself an injury when you give way to them"--steadily, even with a touch of slow
significance--"a physical injury. I have noticed that more than once."

He sprang to his feet again. Every drop of blood left his face. For a second he looked as if
he would strike her. His arm actually flung itself out--and fell.

"You devil!" he gasped. "You count on that? You she-devil!"

She left her tree and stood before him.

"Listen to me," she said. "You intimate that you have been laying melodramatic plots against
me which will injure my good name. That is rubbish. Let us leave it at that. You threaten that
you will break Rosy's heart and take her child from her, you say also that you will wound and
hurt my mother to her death and do your worst to ruin an honest man----"

"And, by God, I will!" he raged. "And you cannot stop me, if----"

"I do not know whether I can stop you or not, though you may be sure I will try," she interrupted
him, "but that is not what I was going to say." She drew a step nearer, and there was something
in the intensity of her look which fascinated and held him for a moment. She was curiously
grave. "Nigel, I believe in certain things you do not believe in. I believe black thoughts
breed black ills to those who think them. It is not a new idea. There is an old Oriental proverb
which says, 'Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.' I believe also that the worst--the
very worst CANNOT be done to those who think steadily--steadily--only of the best. To you that
is merely superstition to be laughed at. That is a matter of opinion. But--don't go on with
this thing--DON'T GO ON WITH IT. Stop and think it over."

He stared at her furiously--tried to laugh outright, and failed because the look in her eyes
was so odd in its strength and stillness.

"You think you can lay some weird spell upon me," he jeered sardonically.

"No, I don't," she answered. "I could not if I would. It is no affair of mine. It is your affair
only--and there is nothing weird about it. Don't go on, I tell you. Think better of it."

She turned about without further speech, and walked away from him with light swiftness over
the marsh. Oddly enough, he did not even attempt to follow her. He felt a little weak--perhaps
because a certain thing she had said had brought back to him a familiar touch of the horrors.
She had the eyes of a falcon under the odd, soft shade of the extraordinary lashes. She had
seen what he thought no one but himself had realised. Having watched her retreating figure
for a few seconds, he sat down--as suddenly as before--on the mound near the tree.

"Oh, damn her!" he said, his damp forehead on his hands. "Damn the whole universe!"

. . . . .

When Betty and Roland reached Stornham, the wicker-work pony chaise from the vicarage stood
before the stone entrance steps. The drawing-room door was open, and Mrs. Brent was standing
near it saying some last words to Lady Anstruthers before leaving the house, after a visit
evidently made with an object. This Betty gathered from the solemnity of her manner.

"Betty," said Lady Anstruthers, catching sight of her, "do come in for a moment."

When Betty entered, both her sister and Mrs. Brent looked at her questioningly.

"You look a little pale and tired, Miss Vanderpoel," Mrs. Brent said, rather as if in haste
to be the first to speak. "I hope you are not at all unwell. We need all our strength just
now. I have brought the most painful news. Malignant typhoid fever has broken out among the
hop pickers on the Mount Dunstan estate. Some poor creature was evidently sickening for it
when he came from London. Three people died last night."

CHAPTER XLI

SHE WOULD DO SOMETHING

Sir Nigel's face was not a good thing to see when he appeared at the dinner table in the evening.
As he took his seat the two footmen glanced quickly at each other, and the butler at the sideboard
furtively thrust out his underlip. Not a man or woman in the household but had learned the
signal denoting the moment when no service would please, no word or movement be unobjectionable.
Lady Anstruthers' face unconsciously assumed its propitiatory expression, and she glanced at
her sister more than once when Betty was unaware that she did so.

Until the soup had been removed, Sir Nigel scarcely spoke, merely making curt replies to any
casual remark. This was one of his simple and most engaging methods of at once enjoying an
ill-humour and making his wife feel that she was in some way to blame for it.

"Mount Dunstan is in a deucedly unpleasant position," he condescended at last. "I should not
care to stand in his shoes."

He had not returned to the Court until late in the afternoon, but having heard in the village
the rumour of the outbreak of fever, he had made inquiries and gathered detail.

"You are thinking of the outbreak of typhoid among the hop pickers?" said Lady Anstruthers.
"Mrs. Brent thinks it threatens to be very serious."

"An epidemic, without a doubt," he answered. "In a wretched unsanitary place like Dunstan village,
the wretches will die like flies."

"What will be done?" inquired Betty.

He gave her one of the unpleasant personal glances and laughed derisively.

"Done? The county authorities, who call themselves 'guardians,' will be frightened to death
and will potter about and fuss like old women, and profess to examine and protect and lay restrictions,
but everyone will manage to keep at a discreet distance, and the thing will run riot and do
its worst. As far as one can see, there seems no reason why the whole place should not be swept
away. No doubt Mount Dunstan has wisely taken to his heels already."

"I think that, on the contrary, there would be much doubt of that," Betty said. "He would stay
and do what he could."

Sir Nigel shrugged his shoulders.

"Would he? I think you'll find he would not."

"Mrs. Brent tells me," Rosalie broke in somewhat hurriedly, "that the huts for the hoppers
are in the worst possible condition. They are so dilapidated that the rain pours into them.
There is no proper shelter for the people who are ill, and Lord Mount Dunstan cannot afford
to take care of them."

"But he WILL--he WILL," broke forth Betty. Her head lifted itself and she spoke almost as if
through her small, shut teeth. A wave of intense belief--high, proud, and obstinate, swept
through her. It was a feeling so strong and vibrant that she felt as if Mount Dunstan himself
must be reached and upborne by it--as if he himself must hear her.

Rosalie looked at her half-startled, and, for the moment held fascinated by the sudden force
rising in her and by the splendid spark of light under her lids. She was reminded of the fierce
little Betty of long ago, with her delicate, indomitable small face and the spirit which even
at nine years old had somehow seemed so strong and straitly keen of sight that one had known
it might always be trusted. Actually, in one way, she had not changed. She saw the truth of
things. The next instant, however, inadvertently glancing towards her husband, she caught her
breath quickly. Across his heavy-featured face had shot the sudden gleam of a new expression.
It was as if he had at the moment recognised something which filled him with a rush of fury
he himself was not prepared for. That he did not wish it to be seen she knew by his manner.
There was a brief silence in which it passed away. He spoke after it, with disagreeable precision.

"He has had an enormous effect on you--that man," he said to Betty.

He spoke clearly so that she might have the pleasure of being certain that the menservants
heard. They were close to the table, handing fruit--professing to be automatons, eyes down,
faces expressing nothing, but as quick of hearing as it is said that blind men are. He knew
that if he had been in her place and a thing as insultingly significant had been said to him,
he should promptly have hurled the nearest object--plate, wineglass, or decanter--in the face
of the speaker. He knew, too, that women cannot hurl projectiles without looking like viragos
and fools. The weakly-feminine might burst into tears or into a silly rage and leave the table.
There was a distinct breath's space of pause, and Betty, cutting a cluster from a bunch of
hothouse grapes presented by the footman at her side, answered as clearly as he had spoken himself.

"He is strong enough to produce an effect on anyone," she said. "I think you feel that yourself.
He is a man who will not be beaten in the end. Fortune will give him some good thing."

"He is a fellow who knows well enough on which hand of him good things lie," he said. "He will
take all that offers itself."

"Why not?" Betty said impartially.

"There must be no riding or driving in the neighbourhood of the place," he said next. "I will
have no risks run." He turned and addressed the butler. "Jennings, tell the servants that those
are my orders."

He sat over his wine but a short time that evening, and when he joined his wife and sister-in-law
in the drawing-room he went at once to Betty. In fact, he was in the condition when a man cannot
keep away from a woman, but must invent some reason for reaching her whether it is fatuous
or plausible.

"What I said to Jennings was an order to you as well as to the people below stairs. I know
you are particularly fond of riding in the direction of Mount Dunstan. You are in my care so
long as you are in my house."

"Orders are not necessary," Betty replied. "The day is past when one rushed to smooth pillows
and give the wrong medicine when one's friends were ill. If one is not a properly-trained nurse,
it is wiser not to risk being very much in the way."

He spoke over her shoulder, dropping his voice, though Lady Anstruthers sat apart, appearing
to read.

"Don't think I am fool enough not to understand. You have yourself under magnificent control,
but a woman passionately in love cannot keep a certain look out of her eyes."

He was standing on the hearth. Betty swung herself lightly round, facing him squarely. Her
full look was splendid. 1

Is up and down some small hills to Huayamacan.

2-1/2

It follows then by the slope, and slopes very spacious, even the hamlet of Fort. 1

You have to climb a small hill, and then lower it on a path of the most rugged, to Sampulo. 1

Is
up and down two, whose paths are equally terrible, to the river of Amantala, which quite wide,
always carries a substantial amount of water.

1

River of Amantala climbs a mountain for the space of a league, and
you walk the same, following for their side, until arriving at Ayapata.

2

To be lower after spinal-Raqui. 1

After the hill to Santa Rosa.

1

Still have to climb to Cuquiputa. 1 / 2

                        And to Cruz Pata or San-Jose. 1 / 2

Then get off, climb and walk up the side of the hills to Petiapo. 2

After having fallen into the valley of leg, walking a mile. 1

And across the river of the same name, full of dead ends, we just need to raise another league to be
finally in town. 1

TOTAL 33

PATA

This canton, situated on a hill covered with grasses and plants as they boscage sparse consists
of a few huts placed in a row, its inhabitants are Quechua Indians,
scarcely reach the number one hundred and sixty-five.

This small population enjoys, in the middle the most fertile country in the world, moist and
warm temperament, so nice. Despite the scarcity of water undergoes, even in the same village,
the surrounding places offer immense resources, both for breeding cattle and for growing plants
tropical. The wide beaches Tuyche River is within walking distance of their forests banks, Piliapo
plains, the valley of San-Antonio, and many other spot where usurp people to the constant action
wild vegetation some particles of land for their crops, prove in fact the great fertility of the
regions most deserted.

Nothing but the cultivation of the land, could stay there a large population, while at present only
a handful of men who are lost, so to speak and, on that still virgin soil.

Today, people collect enough for them, rice, maize, yucca, of bananas, sugarcane and peanuts,
but trade is only a little rice and snuff, which often change by
gender and clothing.

There are some, however, prefer rover to go to forest to collect natural products such as husks,
the balsam, storax, incense and incense. These Indians also engaged in fishing for shad and catfish
abound in the river Tuyche, as well as countless hunting birds, monkeys
of various species, deer, or a thousand other beasts who roam the
forests.

                                                          

The hills could certainly provide the necessary food for many grazing
troops of cattle, but currently do not have the people above thirty
cows, for the havoc they cause tigers [1] so abundant in those regions,
and those unable to pursue freely in the rainy season wild prey, they
go to the high places, where to eat have to attack the cattle.

  

Pata is located seven miles east-southeast of Santa
  Cruz de Valle Ameno: to aim of him with this
  last point, take a path forward for the mules, carrying
  the itinerary following:
  
  Leagues.
  
  From Leg moving up a slope to Huichu-huichu easy.

1-1/2 continues then the slope of the mountain
  to Temptation. 1-1/2
                                                        
                                  Then it goes down a very bad way to the beating.

1 / 2

There is then a swampy plain and full of holes in which they have
had to put many crossed logs to facilitate the movement: however,
the bad construction of this road and the little care that they have
of it, make these routes is very difficult for the mules, especially
in the rainy season.

Crossing this level is reached San-Juan-Pampa.

3

Where there is but a bad road to walk to get in Santa Cruz de Valle Ameno. 1 / 2 -------- TOTAL
leagues 7

Twelve miles to the north-west of Pata is its annexed Moxos: to be transported to this place
must cross the river Tuyche, following after the mountains until they reached a valley which
is situated in the village.

MOXOS.

Built on a hill covered in grass plants parties, the village near
which are fertile and well adapted to the cultivation of the land
for raising cattle, especially in the valleys and streams, apparently
meets some more or less the same circumstances found in his parish
but although its population is not as swollen as this, it only consists
of one hundred and twenty souls, their position is much more advantageous
with respect to the conditions.

Effectively placed in a more elevated site, valleys can produce tropical
plants, and plants surrounding mountains areas temperate, such as
wheat, potatoes, etc. The flames, these docile beasts, penetrate to
bringing the mercaducarías Moxos, which is a plus for the trade, being
mules cost much higher.

There could also be raised cattle with great advantage, as well as the work spread abroad tillage
and gold mines on the mountain more directly to the mountain.

APOLLO-BAMBA [1].

The town of Apollo, today capital of the province, was founded about the middle of last century
by Franciscan missionaries, who met at that point to the natives of the nation Apollos, and
formed a mission, which having been stuck in the year 1800 to the other neighboring towns people came
to compose the province of Caupolican.

Apollo is situated in the center of a plain, slightly wavy and plant cover grasses. This plain, bounded
on the south by mountains to the valleys and their corners These are, give a very picturesque,
is five to six miles wide, and its length extends from north to south,
about twelve to fourteen, appearing one oblong.

Al this is raised, similar to a wall, a large mountain that runs from north to south, and to that
of their great elevation has been called Altuncama. There is a low hill west, filed between
Apollo and the plains of Santa Catalina which come to occupy the west and southwest. The Last Valley
horizontal, which is twelve miles long on five wide, is covered part of grasslands, and Tupili
crosses the river, whose banks are adorned widths and thick forests, which so contrasted with
the rest satin, they seem to have been planted by human hands.

The village consists of three distinct groups. The first is located before moving the river,
and consists of scattered houses: in this group, called the bias of the Concepcion, is where
they are established merchants of all kinds of fruit, and whom the native inhabitants are in
their particular language Matagua name, ie outsiders. The second group located in the center and
on a slight hill of red clay is on the other side of the river, and contains the town hall,
parish church and convent of the Franciscans, whose facade that faces east, overlooking a square in
which the sides north and south are composed of several buildings, and the eastern border to the
convent, a number of houses inhabited by indigenous people: these houses, each of which has
a single door and about fifteen to twenty yards long, are placed on the hill an amphitheater,
so that from the convent is found all that happens inside of them.

Such was the manner in which the Franciscans had provisions in order to be at the sight of all
the steps of the Indians, and to ensure their actions. At that time, traders who came to the province,
were forced to stay in the convent make their exchanges in the presence of the religious. A
creek separates this second part, the third group that is located on the path of Aten, and
arranged in the same order we have just seen in that.

Apollo temperature is pleasant and healthy, but let their free access plains to all the winds,
the air becomes drier than in Santa Cruz. There are grown the same fruits than in other districts,
but coca is the only important object of trade barter. Also there in Apollo as two thousand
to two thousand five hundred head of livestock, and its inhabitants were a little more industrious
and neat, would have certainly all kinds of goods in abundance. A single fact will suffice
to justify this assertion, as regards to the great procreation of the stock. An Indian named
Pedro Chambi, had met with the product fifteen cows their industry,
dedicated to breeding as carefully then, so came to multiply, it was
the large number sold by him while he lived, still left in 1828, at
the end of his days, like a thousand heads.

It is seen that with some care because the plains and could easily be covered hills of livestock,
both cattle and sheep, and even perhaps to equine. It would be equally possible that Altuncama
mountains, in view of his elevation, produjesen vines and potatoes.

The draw-modified hulls some way to be both of these people, teaching them to estimate the positive
value of things, and giving an idea of ​​money. For trade in this particular have come to know
too many other objects, they were entirely ignored, and in whose possession they enjoy today's
comforts. If I had continued this trade, there is no doubt that the inhabitants of Apollo would already
well advanced in the way of a civilization, fighting relentlessly against those who have become
directors of these Indians, under the stupid pretext the business relationship with the foreigners
corrupting their morals. Although this can be verified sometimes, why not have to deny the
immense advantages which must necessarily bring get the frequency of these relationships. The
nature of these people, indigenous people all Apollos them in the nation, whose number does not pass
two thousand seven hundred and seventy-five is the most peaceful, and gentle, pleasure-loving, looking
at all the fun. The numerous festivals of Christianity, yet increased local usage, provided they
Used frequently meet to give herself the happy and playful danses, stimulated by repeated libations
of brandy, which misused by some to be deprived of reason. Such is the way go through life
without thinking of dealing, or in their future, nor in that of their children, probably relying
on the natural wealth of the country, whose products are sufficient to satisfaction of their needs. With
a lively and light, have a lot of skill to imitate as they show, so we gather all the qualities that
make them susceptible of civilized, but soon, maybe the same indigenous Andean nations. Lack only
to enable it to carry out some benevolent men, stripped of their interests particular, want to
devote to the development of intellectual faculties of these Indians
and his social education, moral governor and physically.

                                                        Apollo southeast of the town of Aten, a distance of nine miles per
itinerary following:

Leagues.

Leaving Apollo, beat about the plain-Chico Bridge. 1

From here to Puente Grande. 2

And to arrive at Pampa-Tupili.

3

                                                        
                                                     Go up the slope after Chímasacro-Large, 1

Then go down, it and take
the slope to Chímasacro-Chico.

1

And he finally goes to Athens. 1

-------- TOTAL 9

SANTA CRUZ VALLEY AMENO.

Its position has made him delightful to Santa-Cruz deserve the nickname of Valle Ameno. Nothing
indeed could be more charming, more picturesque and lively than their surroundings, or that it
is more peaceful and cheerful your home.

Located on a plain, on a slope scarcely perceptible leaning to the south, and at the foot of
a conical hill, this village is also surrounded by low hills, but they will gradually rising towards
the north to reach higher to form mountains, which are topped with elegant palm trees whose
foliage mingles with the drinks giant tree more robust. The contrast presented plains with
hills covered with exquisite and varied vegetation, stream Santa-Cruz River that runs through
all of this table, scattering a healthy freshness, attends all in order to make this place
more enjoyable point of the province.

Although small, it contains only nine hundred forty-one inhabitants, some of them nation of
Apollo, the parish of Santa Cruz is very neat, and looking at its beautiful contours, easily
divert attention from the irregularity of its streets and buildings. Field surrounding it
produces in abundance all the fruits of the torrid zone, so their people are all farmers, not
only collect enough for their consumption, but they also do some trade with their abundance,
for which they put to air cure the sun the fruits of banana, cut into long strips or slices,
that after of dried apricots are transformed into eSCelente. Also prepare and coca snuff, and all
these products come to serve them to operate their exchanges, for want of money in coins,
has not yet entered it into circulation.

Are active as the inhabitants of Santa Cruz in the breeding of cattle, which is achieved with much
advantage over the hills. There are times when actively engaged in the collection of the husk,
forest rover of the surrounding mountains, but found these and so destroyed, which at present are required
to run ten or twelve miles to get to find it. With regard to fishing and to the hunting this
region is as abundant as the Pata, and natural products are entirely the same: it has been found,
however, in the forests of Santa Cruz, countless woods of the finest cabinetry and beautiful, such
as guava, granadillo, etc.

In short, if the population wanted to take advantage of all resources
is surrounded, engaging more actively, to the raising of livestock,
agriculture within the land so fertile and where nature gives you
full hands treasures, to the judicious EXTRACTION graduated from the
chaff and tillage, in short, mines of gold and lead, said be in the
mountains of Santa Clara, no doubt it would get double their riches,
but to this would be overcome first the natural apathy, which leads
to these indigenous people to not work but the very measured to obtain
the things necessary to existence.

Truth is also it was necessary to move and activate your ambition, a larger population and markets
exportation of more outstretched.

Santa-Cruz was a very safe place until the year 1830, which already began to feel some diseases,
hitherto unknown, and vigorously attacking the inhabitants. Today on day intermittent fevers
have settled there his domain. Some people have believed that came from this in the introduction
of trees in the hot valleys [1], but according to my observations on the province of Valle Grande
[2], I think such a change is rather due to deforestation caused by fires, where residents are
accustomed to promote each year with the aim of renewing the grass of the plains and hills. The fact
is that many places, very healthy in the past, are at present invaded by this pest destructive,
which is increasing in proportion as it extends clearing.

It is therefore the duty of the government taking a wise move to cut the progress of such
evil, and improve where possible tainted sites.

                                                         

Santa-Cruz is located west-southwest of Apollo Bamba.

To come to this place will go five leagues by the following schedule:

Leagues.

Go

up the hill of Santa Teresa. 1

                                                   He gets after it, until Huilipisa.

1

And it follows then by a plain to Bacqueria. 1

Where you have to walk for a ground well, until they came to Apollo. 2

TOTAL 5

ATEN.

This town, old mission of the Franciscans, is located amidst mountains, a hollow pretty equal, and their
houses, though regular, are scattered. The climate is hot and humid, very healthy therefore,
in spite of the rain that falls there frequently. Its culture, its production and trade are
of the same nature as in Apollo críanse also some cattle in the grassy plains of Tupili.

The number of inhabitants reaches, more or less one thousand thirty-three; these Indians belong to
a nation different from the Apollo, and speak the language Tacana, perhaps one of the most shocking
and hard, as well as the most guttural of America. His character, similar language, is irascible,
stubborn, full of arrogance, and little merry, are nevertheless more inclined to work than Apollos,
especially to agriculture and to scrutinizing raids within the forests. Each individual of this
population, as we have said elsewhere hand, is obliged to build his
own, without help from others, the house has later living with his
family, if it comes to miss the practice, probably conserved from
its savage state, is filled with shame, stripping the dignity of man.

Lavish in the extreme and friends of the show, and always longing to purchase ornaments to
spruce lucid they and their wives, no jobs, painful as they are, they are not willing to take To
obtain such satisfaction. Preferred over all other glasses and silverware, as an ornament
to place on their desks, or the strange dress, covered in gallons
embroidery and shiny, with which to go up to the processions of the
Catholic religion trying to distinguish itself from others by the
brilliance and uniqueness of such trappings.

The features of the Athenians are quite rough, with no difference in this between both sexes
have short, flat nose, too swarthy complexion, and almost all are dotted with white spots on the
body and face, helping them to look very strange.

An episode in the history of the province, particularly to Aten, will know the nature of their inhabitants
[1]. In 1811, in consequence of having been defeated by the Spanish detachment patriot army, which
under the command of General Pinelo was heading towards Cuzco La-Paz, Dr. Doll, chief secretary
and church that much credit, he took refuge with some other officers and patriots Larecaja Valley,
where he managed to influence in crowds to revolt against the Spanish people. After a long
and bitter struggle, after having fought with heroic courage in the cause of freedom and independence,
these improvised soldiers having been finally defeated by the battle-hardened troops and ordered
of the Spanish, saw himself forced to leave Larecaja Dolls, where he went, with some of their
own, by the river Iuyo to Aten. Immediately the Indians revolted and managed Athenians Apollo
seize them. The Spanish, who lost sight of him, soon soon send troops to fight. Captain D. Agustin
Gamarra was commissioned for this company; and having come to win every game to the Patriots, so
inferior in number, so little hardened, and entirely devoid of weapons, was ready for decision-Aten,
which was to crown his triumph. Twelve Athenians, led by Captain Pariaman unable stand in the
open field to a hundred soldiers to five hundred regular troops and archers, were ambushed
at the distance of a league from the village, in a dense forest [2]
which is situated on a hill there resolved to die rather than surrender
to the enemy.

After a two-hour battle, Pariaman Captain was the only one who came to save, and Gamarra, that
he was master of the field, following the custom of the Spanish, began to punish the most egregious
manner to all those he supposed to have taken up arms to join the patriot army.

Persecution increasing day by day, and each time with more rigor, an Indian named Joseph Pacha,
who was one of the most committed, proposed twenty or thirty families to abandon their homes to go
to find the best kept quiet in the forest. The migrant population away because, driven by
Pacha, looking for a venue where she could not get to be discovered; and having crossed the desert,
finally stopped in a ravine, to which he gave Irimo name: in this place, situated about twelve
or fourteen miles east of Athens, remained These Indians more than seven years without being
could discover. As the wary Pacha had Great care had to take whatever steps are necessary,
nothing was missing from the new colony. To planted cotton dress, and while men were engaged
in hunting and clearing of land, the women wove and took care of housework. Pacha, which is head
of the colony was established a very strict internal police, distributing
jobs depending on age and gender, and all work was done in common,
alternating so that one day dealing with the culture, the next went
to the game, and vice versa; so that all products were distributed
equally, as if there were more than one family. "Lord Dunholm and Lady Alanby of Dole kindly sent cheques to help us,
but the American young lady was first on the field. She sent both doctors and nurses, and has
supplied us with food and medicine every day. As you say, Mrs. Brown, God Almighty knows what
would have become of us, but for what she has done."

Mrs. Brown had listened with rather open mouth. She caught her breath heartily, as a sort of
approving exclamation.

"God bless her!" she broke out. "Girls isn't generally like that. Their heads is too full of
finery. God bless her, 'Merican or no 'Merican! That's what I say."

Mount Dunstan's red-brown eyes looked as if she had pleased him.

"That's what I say, too," he answered. "God bless her!"

There was not a day which passed in which he did not involuntarily say the words to himself
again and again. She had been wrong when she had said in her musings that they were as far
apart as if worlds rolled between them. Something stronger than sight or speech drew them together.
The thread which wove itself through his thoughts grew stronger and stronger. The first day
her gifts arrived and he walked about the ballroom ward directing the placing of hospital cots
and hospital aids and comforts, the spirit of her thought and intelligence, the individuality
and cleverness of all her methods, brought her so vividly before him that it was almost as
if she walked by his side, as if they spoke together, as if she said, "I have tried to think
of everything. I want you to miss nothing. Have I helped you? Tell me if there is anything
more." The thing which moved and stirred him was his knowledge that when he had thought of
her she had also been thinking of him, or of what deeply concerned him. When he had said to
himself, tossing on his pillow, "What would she DO?" she had been planning in such a way as
answered his question. Each morning, when the day's supplies arrived, it was as if he had received
a message from her.

As the people in the cottages felt the power of his temperament and depended upon him, so,
also, did the patients in the ballroom ward. The feeling had existed from the outset and increased
daily. The doctors and nurses told one another that his passing through the room was like the
administering of a tonic. Patients who were weak and making no effort, were lifted upon the
strong wave of his will and carried onward towards the shore of greater courage and strength.

Young Doctor Thwaite met him when he came in one morning, and spoke in a low voice:

"There is a young man behind the screen there who is very low," he said. "He had an internal
haemorrhage towards morning, and has lost his pluck. He has a wife and three children. We have
been doing our best for him with hot-water bottles and stimulants, but he has not the courage
to help us. You have an extraordinary effect on them all, Lord Mount Dunstan. When they are
depressed, they always ask when you are coming in, and this man--Patton, his name is--has asked
for you several times. Upon my word, I believe you might set him going again."

Mount Dunstan walked to the bed, and, going behind the screen, stood looking down at the young
fellow lying breathing pantingly. His eyes were closed as he laboured, and his pinched white
nostrils drew themselves in and puffed out at each breath. A nurse on the other side of the
cot had just surrounded him with fresh hot-water bottles.

Suddenly the sunken eyelids flew open, and the eyes met Mount Dunstan's in imploring anxiousness.

"Here I am, Patton," Mount Dunstan said. "You need not speak."

But he must speak. Here was the strength his sinking soul had longed for.

"Cruel bad--goin' fast--m' lord," he panted.

Mount Dunstan made a sign to the nurse, who gave him a chair. He sat down close to the bed,
and took the bloodless hand in his own.

"No," he said, "you are not going. You'll stay here. I will see to that."

The poor fellow smiled wanly. Was afraid that the patient could remember what
she had done in the most critical moments, when I was pretty sure was to die.

- Now to sit still - continued Valls -. Stay here until we go together Palma. You know me ...
I know everything, I arrange everything ... Huh? "I mean ...?

The chueta winked and laughed mischievously, confident in his ability
to divine the wishes friends.

Famous Captain! Since I was in Can Mallo, everyone seemed aware of their mandates, admiring him
as a powerful figure and jovial. Margalida ruborizábase with their words and winks, but I wanted to
see him so dedicated. He recalled his eyes filled with tears one night we all thought he was
going to die Don Jaime. Valls had wept while mumbling curses. The Chaplain also loved to that
great lady of Mallorca from where he was laughing to learn that they
thought it heals.

Pep and his wife followed him as obedient dogs and submissive.

Paul spoke several evenings and sick of past events.

The captain was a man quick in his decisions.

- You know that I never tire when it comes to a friend. On landing in Ibiza saw the judge. That
will be fixed, you're right and we all recognize: self-defense.

A few annoyances when you're good, but nothing in the end ... The matter of your health is
also resolved.

What more left? ... Ah, yes! Anything else is, but I have it in point of settlement.

Rio maliciously as he spoke, Febrer shaking hands, and this, in turn,
would not ask more, afraid of being disappointed.

Once, upon entering the bedroom Margalida, Valls took her arm, bringing
it together the bed.

- Look at her! - Said with mock seriousness,
please contact the sick -.

Is this the same as you want? Do not you changed it? ... Dale, then
hand, silly.

What are you doing, watching with frightened eyes? ...

The two shook hands right hand Febrer Margalida. Ay! Was it true what
they say Captain?

... His eyes sought the atlota, which remained low, whereas emotion whiten his cheeks and did
beat the wings of his nose.

- Now, kiss - Valls said, gently pushing the girl toward the patient.

But Margalida, as if it is threatened by a danger, broke loose from their hands, fleeing Room.

-
Well - said the captain -. And shall kiss you in a while: when I'm gone.

Valls approve of this marriage. Does Febrer wanted? Go ahead ... This was more logical the marriage
with his niece for the millions of father. Margalida was a great woman. He understood of these
things.

When James take her out of the island, used for other purposes and other costumes, with the
ease of assimilation with the females for every good thing, no one would recognize the old peasants.

-
I've fixed your future, small inquisitor. You know that your friend gets the Jew always proposed.
You look in Majorca to live on modestly. Do not shake your head: I know you want to work, and
now that you're in love and want to start a family. Will work, between the two started a business:
there are to choose from.

I always wear head cluttered with projects: a thing of the race ... If you prefer to go to Mallorca,
I'll look for a foreign occupation ... It is a matter to be thought.

In all matters relating to the family of Can Mallorquí, the captain spoke with an authority master.
Pep and his wife did not dare disobey. How to argue with a man who knew everything! ... The
peasant oppose little resistance. And Don Paul wanted the marriage
to Margalida Mr. and gave word that this would not bring any misfortune
to atlota, could marry. It was a great misfortune to see two old men
off the island, but preferred this sorrow to keep him like a son Febrer,
inspired respect them irresistible. 

By Chaplain stopped short of
kneeling before Valls. And yet they say in Palma if chuetas bad! ...
It is well known that the speakers were Mallorca: unfair and proud
people! ... The captain was a saint. Thanks to him, I would not go
to seminary. It would be peasant, Can Mallorquí was for him. Until
he had recovered from his father, through the intercession of Don
Pablo, the knife given by Febrer, and had the promise of a modern
gun's present captain one of these miraculous weapons had admired
in Palma in the windows of the terminal.

"It's like the Scripture, wot he done for that young man as the last breath had gone out of
him, an' him lyin' stiffening fast. 'Young man, arise,' he says. 'The Lord Almighty calls.
You've got a young wife an' three children to take care of. Take up your bed an' walk.' Not
as he wanted him to carry his bed anywheres, but it was a manner of speaking. An' up the young
man got. An' a sensible way," said old Mrs. Welden frankly, "for the Lord to look at it--for
I must say, miss, if I was struck down for it, though I s'pose it's only my sinful ignorance--that
there's times when the Lord seems to think no more of sweepin' away a steady eighteen-shillin'
a week, and p'raps seven in family, an' one at the breast, an' another on the way--than if
it was nothin'. But likely enough, eighteen shillin' a week an' confinements does seem paltry
to the Maker of 'eaven an' earth."

But, to the girl walking over the marshland, the humanness of the things she heard gave to
her the sense of nearness--of being almost within sight and sound--which Mount Dunstan himself
had felt, when each day was filled with the result of her thought of the needs of the poor
souls thrown by fate into his hands. In these days, after listening to old Mrs. Welden's anecdotes,
through which she gathered the simpler truth of things, Betty was able to construct for herself
a less Scriptural version of what she had heard. She was glad--glad in his sitting by a bedside
and holding a hand which lay in his hot or cold, but always trusting to something which his
strong body and strong soul gave without stint. There would be no restraint there. Yes, he
was kind--kind--kind --with the kindness a woman loves, and which she, of all women, loved
most. Sometimes she would sit upon some mound, and, while her eyes seemed to rest on the yellowing
marsh and its birds and pools, they saw other things, and their colour grew deep and dark as
the marsh water between the rushes.

The time was pressing when a change in her life must come. She frequently asked herself if
what she saw in Nigel Anstruthers' face was the normal thinking of a sane man, which he himself
could control. There had been moments when she had seriously doubted it. He was haggard, aging
and restless. Sometimes he--always as if by chance--followed her as she went from one room
to another, and would seat himself and fix his miserable eyes upon her for so long a time that
it seemed he must be unconscious of what he was doing. Then he would appear suddenly to recollect
himself and would start up with a muttered exclamation, and stalk out of the room. He spent
long hours riding or driving alone about the country or wandering wretchedly through the Park
and gardens. Once he went up to town, and, after a few days' absence, came back looking more
haggard than before, and wearing a hunted look in his eyes. He had gone to see a physician,
and, after having seen him, he had tried to lose himself in a plunge into deep and turbid enough
waters; but he found that he had even lost the taste of high flavours, for which he had once
had an epicurean palate. The effort had ended in his being overpowered again by his horrors--the
horrors in which he found himself staring at that end of things when no pleasure had spice,
no debauchery the sting of life, and men, such as he, stood upon the shore of time shuddering
and naked souls, watching the great tide, bearing its treasures, recede forever, and leave
them to the cold and hideous dark. During one day of his stay in town he had seen Teresita,
who had at first stared half frightened by the change she saw in him, and then had told him
truths he could have wrung her neck for putting into words.

"You look an old man," she said, with the foreign accent he had once found deliciously amusing,
but which now seemed to add a sting. "And somesing is eating you op. You are mad in lofe with
some beautiful one who will not look at you. I haf seen it in mans before. It is she who eats
you op--your evil thinkings of her. It serve you right. Your eyes look mad."

He himself, at times, suspected that they did, and cursed himself because he could not keep
cool. It was part of his horrors that he knew his internal furies were worse than folly, and
yet he could not restrain them. The creeping suspicion that this was only the result of the
simple fact that he had never tried to restrain any tendency of his own was maddening. His
nervous system was a wreck. He drank a great deal of whisky to keep himself "straight" during
the day, and he rose many times during his black waking hours in the night to drink more because
he obstinately refused to give up the hope that, if he drank enough, it would make him sleep.
As through the thoughts of Mount Dunstan, who was a clean and healthy human being, there ran
one thread which would not disentangle itself, so there ran through his unwholesome thinking
a thread which burned like fire. His secret ravings would not have been good to hear. In Cadiz and
the port of Palos talk of the unknown countries as indisputable, but Mariners Andalusian, Galician
or Levantine, rude and humble people, they would have scared at the thought of going to court
to present its views. These finches, which were in bell land notability for having become
rich with travel to East and North Europe and were so convinced of the possibility as Columbus's
discoveries, have not managed to be heard by proposing large company without biblical prophecies
and texts classic, based solely on their experience of pilots.

- I am now - Ojeda stopped - in the Life of Columbus, written by his son, Don Fernando, the bastard
child, the child of love, there was a lady Cordoba when Columbus was almost elderly and maybe that's
why he was always regarded with special predilection ... At the age of fourteen years he accompanied
his father on the last voyage of discovery, the most painful of all. Accompanied her on long voyages,
whose monotony encouraged to speak, went with him hours hazard, which are hours of confession
might know better than anyone the darkness of your first life, before the celebrity, however,
to write the origins of Admiral shows a visible uncertainty, as if he possessed a secret that
fear made public. The same Ferdinand says his father, and he rose in fame, he had commitment "that
would less known and some of their origin and their country '... Recognizes that the admiral
was Genoese, because he said so, but it shows in his words a certain mystery.

- When Don Cristobal has assets - continued Maltrana - ordered to be allocated some amount to
maintain a family to be set in Genoa and take further women, so that always exist in the city
Colones. Would not you were relatives Liguria? ... It seems that he and his brothers are the
product of spontaneous generation, without ascending either side, which forces him to this transplant
from a branch of the family to make it Genoa was demonstrated that their nation ... In his will
divided his property among sons and brothers and makes several demands for ethnic or Genoese Genoese
... but all residents Portugal and many years away from their country of origin, merchants met
and discussed during his stay in Lisbon when he was married to the daughter of a Genoese, a
circumstance that may well have influenced the decision of their nationality. These demands
can guess that refunds are loans they made in their years of misery. So orders the give him
some money "to a Jew who lived at the door of the Jewish quarter of Lisbon, the only in all
the will contained no name. Relatives of Genoa no one even mentioned, and leaves nothing for residents
in Italy. Her memories of Genoese not go beyond the colony Genoese established in Portugal
... I inspire little confidence the statements of Admiral as their nationality ... and many other
things.

Ojeda greeted these words with a gesture of astonishment.

- I do
not mean - continued Isidro - the great man was knowingly lying, but
had the defect or the quality of all that, coming from below, reaching
a height of glory.

Managed to taste the events of the previous life disfigured the past according to their conveniences.
It was like some millionaires of this, which in its early stages of wealth proudly confess the misery
of his youth, but then when their children grow and Dynasty are beginning to be ashamed of their
origin and invent affluent relatives and capital illusory to those who started their first business.
The Admiral, in making his will, speaks bitterly of the kings devoted to his work only a million
or fairy maravedis and that "he had to spend the rest» ... And that was said at the time of his death
in a country where All had known him going after the court as a parasite applicant, without money
home, staying in convents, begging small grants to move from one city to another ... Fourteen
years had sufficed for so great forgetfulness.

- I am surprised how little they did to him during his life he called fellow own. In the collection
of his letters are some Genoese ambassador Oderigo complaining because
no answer there.

Send St. George Bank city of Genoa all papers deposited, and the lords of the Bank, only after some
time, give a response Oderigo indication, and this response, though nice, does not prove that the
Genoese government much enthusiasm for his exploits. It seems natural that, being a son of the
country had discovered a new way for East Asia, held this Genoese Signoria somehow. And yet,
the large commercial republic remains silent, ignoring Colón and only one of its officers will
write to thank him when he makes a valuable gift to the city he calls his homeland ... Columbus
was a foreigner I have it in doubt, test it, In addition, the certificate of naturalization that
the Catholic Monarchs gave his younger brother, Don Diego, he was a priest, that he might enjoy
in Castilla and income benefits. But in that document There is also something that lends itself
to mystery. Columbus Spanish naturalize the child for having born outside of Spain and a foreigner,
but does not say a word of his original nationality, the place of his birth, no mention of Genoa
for nothing ... What was unusual about the origin of these settlers, everything about his people always
tend to the confusion? ...

- In recent years - said Maltrana - Admiral was visible effort to appear as a foreigner, and
insists that both Ligurian origin. Next guessed after the lawsuit
had their descendants with the Crown.

Shrewd and cautious man, was indeed the failure exorbitant rights in exchange for their discoveries
had recognized the good Queen Elizabeth, generous and improvident as all women when they get
high ideality business ... You know that Columbus, for the commitment agreed to by kings, it
was incumbent tenth of all I discovered and what he might discover after those who followed
his way. It is absurd to imagine that a family, the family of the Colons, the wholly owned one-tenth
of the entire American continent and more than this, the tenth of Pacific islands, whose discovery
was the result of American ... Why King Ferdinand skilled businessman, always looked askance at the
dealings between the Admiral and the queen. It was not an enemy of the company, as some say,
but it seemed unwise to ease that his wife had agreed to all requests of the Navigator ...
And Columbus, in recent years, realizing the difficulties that his descendants would be absurd
to hold heredity, repeated in all documents were in Genoa, advised his children to put themselves
in contact with the government of the Republic, and is worth of praise and prayers for win their
favor and the powerful merchants of the Banco de San Jorge.

- And you, Maltrana, is also the Jew believe it?

- I do not think anything when there is only a lack of evidence and
inferences.

But saying so does not rely on a vacuum.

This extraordinary man had all the characters of ancient Hebrew religious fervor to fanaticism;
hobbies prophetic, ease of mixing God in money matters. To discover India, as he said in his letters
to the kings, "not me earned or mathematical reason, simply said Isaiah was fulfilled ...».

And what Isaiah said in one of his psalms was, in Columbus, before
finishing world were to convert all men, and that of Spain who would
teach them true religion.

In addition to Isaiah, appealed to the authority of Ezra, a Jew forgotten and several of his
writings contained letters from rabbis converts. Old man, wrote his famous Book of Prophecies,
mystical reverie in which he made calculations of the length of the earth, based on the biblical
prophets. And the result of his thoughts was to announce that the world only had one hundred and
fifty years of life, he had probably perished in 1656.

- You see it in him - said Ojeda - something fierce exaltation to
the ancient Hebrews, who always which were national, persecuted and
slaughtered by religious quarrels.

In our history, the most fearsome inquisitors were of Jewish origin, and who knows if a large
part Spanish fanaticism is not due to Hebrew blood was taken in the final formation of our
people ... The Jews of that time never lost sight of amid the business of mystical dreams, and
appreciated the gold as something divine. So was Columbus.

I had visions of God, like Jamaica, where God spoke to him in person,
and at the same time said: "Gold is most excellent, and with it, who
does, does what you want in the world, such is its power to cast the
souls into Paradise.

" Undertook his travels on behalf of Holy Trinity, saying that his work was "fire of the Holy
Spirit, then sent him to India to spread the gospel and saving souls, and then offered to
sell Native to which would give an income of forty million annually. Ships carrying two slaves
for sale in Spain and bade his brother Don Bartholomew had great careful with the goods and just
carry on what has for each one, "because have to look at all the conscience because there
is no better either, except to serve God, and all things of this world are nothing and God
is forever. "

- And - interrupted Maltrana - just read the description made by Las Casas and other historians
Admiral physical type: vermilion, cariluengo, aquiline nose, freckled,
peevish, eloquent and very hard work.

- Greed is notorious in him,
but were equally greedy all involved on their findings.

It is true that the others were frankly for gold, and Columbus, in addition gold, wanted to serve his
religion winning millions of souls. Nobody really thought these expeditions could be a scientific result.
Iban to India because he was rich; went in search of the land of
the Great Khan, ruler of China, concerned only with treasures.

Columbus sailed carrying a letter from the king to the Great Khan, written in Latin, Letters
accrediting you as Ambassador Extraordinary and just off the coast of Cuba (which he believed
the mainland) could understand the mimicry of the Indians who lived within a great monarch, showed
himself elated, guessing this chieftain humble emperor wealthy of Cathay.

Sent inland with his diplomatic papers to a Jewish convert in Murcia, which know some oriental
languages ​​was with him as interpreter, and this messenger, after long march was only a tribal
chief in the shadow of its roof of leaves, surrounded by concubines tan.

- I admire - continued Ojeda - the childlike enthusiasm that came
to Columbus to death found everywhere making wealth and biblical memories.

The island is Spanish Ophir of Solomon with its golden mines, a large river must necessarily
come from the Paradise, a mountain is a pear, center of the world, and the nipple is the cradle
of mankind, the coast Golden Veragua is where he got the King David three thousand quintals of gold,
leaving them testament to his son.

There is a new land without singing Salve Regina "and other prose," as he says in his language
... And this pious dreamer gives lessons in cunning and betrayal his lieutenant, the knight
of Aragon to Mosen Pedro Marguerite Caonabo garment, bellicose cacique, and recommends to
send emissaries to good words until it comes to visit. "And as for being an Indian walking naked
- tells you more or less - and if they would flee difficult to have a hand, give her a shirt
and vestídsela course, and a hood, and a belt where you can have and will not let you go. "

Passed
before the two friends, very upright, with the book under his arm, the American lady, which
until then had been reading in his chair. Fernando struck several times by up the volume, clear
eyes fixed on him, and that when he met with his returning to the pages.

- Tea time - said Maltrana -. These English the guess with an accuracy clockwork ... If you like,
do not go down until later. Must be filled winter garden.

They lit cigarettes and left the two with closed eyes staring at the spiral of smoke that were
developed on the blue background.

- Another lie that irritates me
- Isidro said a few times - is that of persecution ignorance of the
Church was suffering the Admiral.

I have nothing to do with the Church but I recognize that this invention is one of the greatest
folly, if not greater, than We can point our account those contained
in the union of the wicked.

The vulgar elsewhere that have a pattern made, always the same things in Spain, thought Columbus
having discovered a new world I was not aware the God of the Bible,
necessarily had to chase the people of the Church with deadly hatred.

There are even pictures celebrity represent the so-called Congress of Salamanca "with highly
placed bishops miter and crosier (something and the bishop of the African choir) that discuss geography
and cry anathema against wicked away from him. And Columbus is shown arrogant and serene,
like a tenor who knows advance that will triumph in the last act ...

Ojeda river Maltrana words.

- Imagine - he continued - the jump that gave the author of The Prophecies's friend Isaiah and Ezra,
by coming up with the idea that there could be a new unknown world by the God of Genesis, and
whose inhabitants did not come from Adam and Eve, or the dispersion of the sons of Noah. At
least, she think the subject of a diabolical hallucination, and daring
to articulate his thoughts, he had not suffered greater punishment
than imprisonment by reason of insanity ... But Columbus only spoke
of going to the old world known for the way the West, and this there
was nothing heretical, also grounding it in classical authors and
Church Fathers.

There was another conference that a royal commission dispute with
the teachers of the University Salamanca, and in this scientific dispute,
held in the convent of San Esteban, faculty was contrary to the discoverer,
while Dominicans and other religious monks accepted plans as credible.

This is understandable. The monks looked to Columbus himself as a his close friend, and were
also priests of popular life, used to contact people Coast who spoke frequently of new land.
Science was the only one opposed to projects of the discoverer, as we have seen so often oppose
any innovation ...

Maltrana silent as to reflect better, then added:

- I do not why I make fun of the professors of Salamanca and consider them ignorant. Knew what could
be known in his time and defending their knowledge. A child of today knows more than can laugh at themselves
and their science, but need to know how to laugh at the XXV century school of scholars who now
venerate. No one has kept an extract of this dispute Salamanca only know that the professors
refused to Columbus in a few years could come and go, as claimed, from Spain to the east coast of Asia.
And in this they were right: they were right. They had a better idea of ​​the size of Asia and
the size of the earth, gave Unknown Ocean similar to a space occupied
by the Atlantic and Pacific together and were by immense and impassable
for navigation aids at the time.

But poor scholars of Salamanca, as well as Columbus, unaware of the
existence of America, and America tired of living in the mystery,
stepped out of the sailor, who died ignoring.

Y was that they had a notion of land closest to the truth were to History as some donkeys, and
visionary plans based on "the world is boy they say, and six parts of it are lean and one with
water ", appears as a scholar enshrined in the win ...

- That's right - said Ojeda -. One must imagine for a moment that America had not existed, deleting
in the New World scenario, and see Columbus, who believed the earth one-third smaller and the
coasts of Asia to about seven hundred leagues from the Canaries, rushing to their boats Ocean
front, having to sail around the Atlantic and the Pacific to meet with the islands of Japan
or the coast of China.

- An absurd! - Interrupted Maltrana -. An impossibility, considering what they were the ships,
their spare little food and the need to rest in appropriate scales. Had perished by insisting
on the company, or what is almost certainly would have become. To go only to the West Indies,
Columbus himself felt faint his will on the first trip more than once, it is not surprising, since
the stronger faith wavers to be plunged into the unknown.

When I had sailed seven hundred leagues, he began to think Asia would be concern if the farther than
he thought, and it was then the largest Pinzón, Martín Alonso the iron, with the stubbornness
of the strong men who expect to leave a misstep running over However, since his ship was shouting:
"Forward, forward!".

- There you have another hoax, Isidro friend: the alleged bad faith of the discoverer Pinzón;
their managements to arouse the people, the Spanish crews attempt to drive the Admiral water,
then return to their country within three days to concedieton die if not found land ...

- What a stupid caption! - Said Maltrana -. The common people will see the historical place to your
liking, as heroes serialized novel that face all sorts of pitfalls for triumph at last his innocence
in the last chapter. The performance of a traitor, a character grim and fatal, is necessary for
a contrast effect to highlight the profile magnanimous greatness of character. And in this
novel Colombia, the traitor is the honest Martín Alonso, who put
it all on the company's discovery to get nothing and lose over life.

You know the real story. When Columbus, tramp of uncertain nationality, Palos walked by not knowing
what to do. Pinzon heard him and encouraged him with his old reports Ocean Navigator convinced
of the existence of new lands.

The king granted his license to the adventurer to the first trip, but this is not ahead implementation.
The royal treasury had fought with great effort a million maravedis from a census of Valencia,
but the amount was insufficient. Columbus had a order for the port of Palos provide him with ships,
but no one obeyed. In those days of nationality just formed and difficult communications, the
power of monarchs was true only where they were present. The royal orders when went away, and
had just not met. Columbus, mandated by the monarchs, tried to enlist people, but the sailors
were forcibly recruited disbanded and fled. Such was her despair, he even thought that man the ships
with men drawn from the prisons.

And in this trouble, when he saw his next company to fail, Martín Alonso Pinzón, the rich Palos, the
owner, he could rest forever the hardships of the ocean, offered with handsome start to get
interested in the expedition and adventure in her part of his property half of what had been
the monarch. He sought and prepared good boats and "put table "in the language of the time,
to enlist sailors, providing confidence to who would make the trip and announcing that he would
too. That was enough for him to come the best people of the coast and all the preparations is
quickly ...

- We are the first travel story written by the admiral, his log book,
that can not be more monotonous.

Favorable wind, good sea, hints of earth, timber float, birds singing in the masts of the ships
as announcing the proximity of invisible costs. But this was a little interesting background
for the hero, and many years after his death, some historians tiding of tragic emotion to his
stories, I invented the uprising of the crews, frightened, wanted to return and Admiral threat
to throw the ground water if not discovered within three days. And Finch plays in all this
the role of a traitor cautious, which promotes the ridiculous fears a crew accustomed to sailing
more random ... In the story of his journey, the Admiral I was suspicious
in nature and given to see treachery and traps everywhere, it says
a word of attempts to revolt, and several times, during the voyage,
his ship approaches to Martin Alonso, calls, engage in friendly conversation
from the bridge, and sent to string Toscanelli the famous letter to
clarify their doubts.

- Columbus - Ojeda said - was the most knowledgeable
scientists who his partner the sea Sticks, but he acknowledged in
more expertise in the art of navigation, the handling of vessels and
men ... There was indeed a period of three days, but this time did
not get it Admiral sailors, but it was he who gave it to Finch, who
sought to change course.

We noticed on both sides of the vessels ground signals, but the Admiral continued always in the
same direction, believing himself to be among the islands of Zipangu, which is in the archipelago
Japanese. "Everything would be round the corner." He wanted to get ashore as soon as possible,
the Empire of Cathay, to China, to visit the Great Khan, presented his credentials and make gold
collection. But Martin Alonso, less naive, considered necessary to touch as soon as possible some
land, and Mr. Christopher finally consent to change course, provided that if in three days
were not return to the original cost ...

And just follow the path of Finch, there is the small Caribbean island, the first stage of the great
discovery, which lasts more than a century later ... Perhaps no one did so much for the glory
of Columbus and his partner to change course. Imagine if the Admiral, in his haste see the Great
Khan, follows the first direction and ends up in the current costs of States Together. Insurance
does not return, and the world is without news of his discovery.

- Yes, it does not return - said Ojeda -. It is very likely, almost certain. For small issue
which amounted altogether some ninety men, and had no real war preparations was a kind tackling
the paradise islands of the Caribbean Sea, with its population meek, timid human herds which hunted
their food the cannibals of the other islands. If the three boats with their handful of crew members
are, at landfall, with ferocious Indians of North America or the warlike Aztecs of Mexico, surely
not again ... And that's Columbus!

- Only at the end of the trip - continued Maltrana - Admiral speaks of his companion, with some
resentment. When sailing along the coasts of Cuba had bad weather, and Columbus took refuge
with his ship in a shelter of the coast, while the other sailor more
daring and confident in his ability, went ahead.

Were separated a few days and this was enough to suspect that Columbus Martín Alonso Indians
had much gold news and would seek its own, as a faithless friend.


"Because you trusted me you made me trust myself," was one of the things she wrote. "For some
time I felt that it was best to fight for my own hand without troubling you. I hoped perhaps
I might be able to lead things to a decorous sort of issue. I saw that secretly Rosy hoped
and prayed that it might be possible. She gave up expecting happiness before she was twenty,
and mere decent peace would have seemed heaven to her, if she could have been allowed sometimes
to see those she loved and longed for. Now that I must give up my hope--which was perhaps a
rather foolish one--and now that I cannot remain at Stornham, she would have no defence at
all if she were left alone. Her condition would be more hopeless than before, because Nigel
would never forget that we had tried to rescue her and had failed. If I were a man, or if I
were very much older, I need not be actually driven away, but as it is I think that you must
come and take the matter into your own hands."

She had remained in her sister's room until long after midnight, and by the time the American
letter was completed and sealed, a pale touch of dawning light was showing itself. She rose,
and going to the window drew the blind up and looked out. The looking out made her open the
window, and when she had done so she stood feeling the almost unearthly freshness of the morning
about her. The mystery of the first faint light was almost unearthly, too. Trees and shrubs
were beginning to take form and outline themselves against the still pallor of the dawn. Before
long the waking of the birds would begin--a brief chirping note here and there breaking the
silence and warning the world with faint insistence that it had begun to live again and must
bestir itself. She had got out of her bed sometimes on a summer morning to watch the beauty
of it, to see the flowers gradually reveal their colour to the eye, to hear the warmly nesting
things begin their joyous day. There were fewer bird sounds now, and the garden beds were autumnal.
But how beautiful it all was! How wonderful life in such a place might be if flowers and birds
and sweep of sward, and mass of stately, broad-branched trees, were parts of the home one loved
and which surely would in its own way love one in return. But soon all this phase of life would
be over. Rosalie, once safe at home, would look back, remembering the place with a shudder.
As Ughtred grew older the passing of years would dim miserable child memories, and when his
inheritance fell to him he might return to see it with happier eyes. She began to picture to
herself Rosy's voyage in the ship which would carry her across the Atlantic to her mother and
the scenes connected in her mind only with a girl's happiness. Whatsoever happened before it
took place, the voyage would be made in the end. And Rosalie would be like a creature in a
dream--a heavenly, unbelievable dream. Betty could imagine how she would look wrapped up and
sitting in her steamer chair, gazing out with rapturous eyes upon the racing waves.

"She will be happy," she thought. "But I shall not. No, I shall not."

She drew in the morning air and unconsciously turned towards the place where, across the rising
and falling lands and behind the trees, she knew the great white house stood far away, with
watchers' lights showing dimly behind the line of ballroom windows.

"I do not know how such a thing could be! I do not know how such a thing could be!" she said.
"It COULD not." And she lifted a high head, not even asking herself what remote sense in her
being so obstinately defied and threw down the glove to Fate.

Sounds gain a curious distinctness and meaning in the hour of the break of the dawn; in such
an hour they seem even more significant than sounds heard in the dead of night. When she had
gone to the window she had fancied that she heard something in the corridor outside her door,
but when she had listened there had been only silence. Now there was sound again--that of a
softly moved slippered foot. She went to the room's centre and waited. Yes, certainly something
had stirred in the passage. She went to the door itself. The dragging step had hesitated--stopped.
Could it be Rosalie who had come to her for something. For one second her impulse was to open
the door herself; the next, she had changed her mind with a sense of shock. Someone had actually
touched the handle and very delicately turned it. It was not pleasant to stand looking at it
and see it turn. She heard a low, evidently unintentionally uttered exclamation, and she turned
away, and with no attempt at softening the sound of her footsteps walked across the room, hot
with passionate disgust. As well as if she had flung the door open, she knew who stood outside.
It was Nigel Anstruthers, haggard and unseemly, with burned-out, sleepless eyes and bitten lip.

Bad and mad as she had at last seen the situation to be, it was uglier and more desperate than
she could well know.

CHAPTER XLV

THE PASSING BELL

The following morning Sir Nigel did not appear at the breakfast table. He breakfasted in his
own room, and it became known throughout the household that he had suddenly decided to go away,
and his man was packing for the journey. What the journey or the reason for its being taken
happened to be were things not explained to anyone but Lady Anstruthers, at the door of whose
dressing room he appeared without warning, just as she was leaving it.

Rosalie started when she found herself confronting him. His eyes looked hot and hollow with
feverish sleeplessness.

"You look ill," she exclaimed involuntarily. "You look as if you had not slept."

"Thank you. You always encourage a man. I am not in the habit of sleeping much," he answered.
"I am going away for my health. It is as well you should know. I am going to look up old Broadmorlands.
I want to know exactly where he is, in case it becomes necessary for me to see him. I also
require some trifling data connected with Ffolliott. If your father is coming, it will be as
well to be able to lay my hands on things. You can explain to Betty. Good-morning." He waited
for no reply, but wheeled about and left her.

Betty herself wore a changed face when she came down. A cloud had passed over her blooming,
as clouds pass over a morning sky and dim it. Rosalie asked herself if she had not noticed
something like this before. She began to think she had. Yes, she was sure that at intervals
there had been moments when she had glanced at the brilliant face with an uneasy and yet half-unrealising
sense of looking at a glowing light temporarily waning. The feeling had been unrealisable,
because it was not to be explained. Betty was never ill, she was never low-spirited, she was
never out of humour or afraid of things--that was why it was so wonderful to live with her.
But--yes, it was true--there had been days when the strong, fine light of her had waned. Lady
Anstruthers' comprehension of it arose now from her memory of the look she had seen the night
before in the eyes which suddenly had gazed straight before her, as into an unknown place.

"Yes, I know--I know--I know!" And the tone in the girl's voice had been one Rosy had not heard
before.

Slight wonder--if you KNEW--at any outward change which showed itself, though in your own most
desperate despite. It would be so even with Betty, who, in her sister's eyes, was unlike any
other creature. But perhaps it would be better to make no comment. To make comment would be
almost like asking the question she had been forbidden to ask.

While the servants were in the room during breakfast they talked of common things, resorting
even to the weather and the news of the village. Afterwards they passed into the morning room
together, and Betty put her arm around Rosalie and kissed her.

"Nigel has suddenly gone away, I hear," she said. "Do you know where he has gone?"

"He came to my dressing-room to tell me." Betty felt the whole slim body stiffen itself with
a determination to seem calm. "He said he was going to find out where the old Duke of Broadmorlands
was staying at present."

"There is some forethought in that," was Betty's answer. "He is not on such terms with the
Duke that he can expect to be received as a casual visitor. It will require apt contrivance
to arrange an interview. I wonder if he will be able to accomplish it?"

"Yes, he will," said Lady Anstruthers. "I think he can always contrive things like that." She
hesitated a moment, and then added: "He said also that he wished to find out certain things
about Mr. Ffolliott--'trifling data,' he called it--that he might be able to lay his hands
on things if father came. He told me to explain to you."

"That was intended for a taunt--but it's a warning," Betty said, thinking the thing over. "We
are rather like ladies left alone to defend a besieged castle. He wished us to feel that."
She tightened her enclosing arm. "But we stand together--together. We shall not fail each other.
We can face siege until father comes."

"You wrote to him last night?"

"A long letter, which I wish him to receive before he sails. He might decide to act upon it
before leaving New York, to advise with some legal authority he knows and trusts, to prepare
our mother in some way--to do some wise thing we cannot foresee the value of. He has known
the outline of the story, but not exact details--particularly recent ones. I have held back
nothing it was necessary he should know. I am going out to post the letter myself. I shall
send a cable asking him to prepare to come to us after he has reflected on what I have written."

Rosalie was very quiet, but when, having left the room to prepare to go to the village, Betty
came back to say a last word, her sister came to her and laid her hand on her arm.

"I have been so weak and trodden upon for years that it would not be natural for you to quite
trust me," she said. "But I won't fail you, Betty--I won't."

The winter was drawing in, the last autumn days were short and often grey and dreary; the wind
had swept the leaves from the trees and scattered them over park lands and lanes, where they
lay a mellow-hued, rustling carpet, shifting with each chill breeze that blew. The berried
briony garlands clung to the bared hedges, and here and there flared scarlet, still holding
their red defiantly until hard frosts should come to shrivel and blacken them. The rare hours
of sunshine were amber hours instead of golden.

As she passed through the park gate Betty was thinking of the first morning on which she had
walked down the village street between the irregular rows of red-tiled cottages with the ragged
little enclosing gardens. Then the air and sunshine had been of the just awakening spring,
now the sky was brightly cold, and through the small-paned windows she caught glimpses of fireglow.
A bent old man walking very slowly, leaning upon two sticks, had a red-brown woollen muffler
wrapped round his neck. Seeing her, he stopped and shuffled the two sticks into one hand that
he might leave the other free to touch his wrinkled forehead stiffly, his face stretching into
a slow smile as she stopped to speak to him.

"Good-morning, Marlow," he said. "How is the rheumatism to-day?"

He was a deaf old man, whose conversation was carried on principally by guesswork, and it was
easy for him to gather that when her ladyship's handsome young sister had given him greeting
she had not forgotten to inquire respecting the "rheumatics," which formed the greater part
of existence. This could be this, that, not a man like Pepe Ghetto,
but the last farmhand put an eye on me with reasonable hope for, and I and would cede theirs,
not the daughter of a ruined marquis, but being a millionaire and princess. Unfortunately by that or
mine, or no of those beings with superior brands and qualities his class, which would, in
short, that men by nature are more equal what is believed, and that those items and qualities
are created by artifice, or, if such beings are not reserved for me, or I lack imagination to
pretend someone, but not exist, all those beauties they would fall in love. Thus, the energy of
love is in me to be asleep, but not dead. God forbid me to kill me in any power of which God
himself has given me. Sleep love in my breast. My reason serene and cold tap ensure that not
wake him but he should. But, my daughter, no one comes to wake, and I fear that his dream is
eternal.

- Come on, I'm sorry I said nonsense - said Dona Manolita -. What would ugly or bad you were you
and show you where it is to be none with titles awake enough to go to sleep that precious love?
Almost seems to me not just right, but you are obliged to do so. It is not fair that so much
beauty (care if you're nice!), it is not lawful for such distinction and elegance are buried here.
It is cruel to eat so cute love sleeping, age, and perhaps, perhaps, have the misfortune that is
moth-eaten wings. Sure there are a thousand suitors out there, these worlds, rendered fall at your
feet, if they see you. Sure to be one among them whom you should love. But guess how are you
here? Why did you play with them hide and seek?

- First, because, in order to find poetry, I have to start destroying
the poetry.

Love not to be sought, must appear, must stem from a providential. Wanted fortune are seeking
adventure, looking for business, and you said it was seeking placement, but love not searched. Besides,
where will I go not further away from my site, more isolated than Villafría? Where shall I
not be regarded as an adventurer? I'm almost out of all kinds social. My relatives humiliate me if I
go with them. If I were alone, say all and D. Acisclo, I was a cow without a cowbell. Marquise
could be and not what I am neither be, because it's ridiculous the title without the appropriate
income. Here, where everyone knows me, I Miss Dona Luz, the marquise, still retaining his ancestral
home, and has won the esteem and respect, because everyone knows his life for twelve years. For
those worlds I would be a somewhat mysterious Dona Luz, who each imagine a thousand horrors. Begin
for stating a truth, to invent and put on it and a half million lies. The truth would be that
I am the daughter of a marquis skull and broken, and one such Antonia Gutierrez, single and seamstress,
with whom my father had a love affair. Believe me I'm nowhere better than here although I never
fell in love and got married. Why not fall in love? Why love has to be always asleep? I am inclined
to believe that only one love, each for its purpose, but love is one, and if you change the
object does not change the love. If so, as I desire, my love wake up and employ all the beauty
of heaven, God has raised, in flowers, poetry, and who knows if even in science, because in
my tight brain Women's fit its great truths, his dark and fearful mystery problems.

- Nothing I answer you - "Dona Manolita -. I see much of what you say you're right; but you trust
me and make me see the deepest part of the soul, take me out of curiosity:
explain to me, if you can, certain things that I find very rare in
your life.

For improvident, by careless be thy father, for a few friends and relations had in the world,
is not had no one to leave you confident but D. Acisclo? "You yourself, having lived in Madrid until
the age of fourteen, not one friend left there? Is not there anyone left who care about you?

- Neglect and the foresight of my father could not be higher. Harto has proved his ruin; but also,
just that I, tying the broken memories of my childhood, I count my way to live in Madrid, to
understand that the best, perhaps the only thing that could make
my father was entrusted to me D. Acisclo.

Until I was five years, I lived in the house of a lady seemed fairly well off, and whose name was
Dona Francisca. I pondered afterwards if that lady was my real mother, but if you treat me well
and even with care and gifts, known or should have known, judging by the confused I remember
that I was weird. I was at home please. I was not married. Often went to visit a handsome gentleman,
friend of my father. My father would see me, sometimes alone, sometimes with the gentleman.
Mrs. died and then my father took me with him to his house, and I no longer trusted anyone.
A few months of being with my father, where I watched an old maid, the nurse came from England
my dad ordered for me and that was with me until a few days before my father and I we came to Villafría.

Doña
Manolita, it was the best girl in the world and he loved and admired Dona Luz, pleased with
the confidence that made him, and very curious to know everything, listened without flinching,
sitting in front of her friend.

It continued:

- My nanny was the duty personified, but as a duty, no heat, no enthusiasm and no affection. I'm almost
to assert that I never kissed, never gave me a caress.

Instead, I taught As she knew, and my father considered a precocious
prodigy, like a wise little girl.

The life of my father, but then I did not understand, I understand
now that was disipadísima, and the complete opposite as exemplary.

Playing, courting, was away from home until three or four o'clock. I was like a refuge, as a means
of purification, as their comfort saint in times of gloom and sadness. I called his room, and
now alone with me tenderness told me, kissed me and cried at times. Since I was so young, and could
not figure out me or try to learn from him the cause of their grief.

Several times I did also go to his room in time that he was not alone,
but with a beautiful and elegant woman, though dressed carelessly,
and this woman I held in beautiful and funny, and made me a thousand
caresses.

- That woman would be your mother - Donna Manolita interrupted.

-
That would have thought me too - went Dona Luz - if that woman had
always been the same, but were varied.

All are modest people, were there with some mystery, and the nurse never saw them. A biggie
when I myself, when I was nine years, never again my father to teach me any of those women
who, by the impression I left, it I figured that had to be ladies
and not vulgar.

My father was a gallant knight much liked the ladies.

I inferred then nothing of this, but later I inferred unlikelihood that I really was a daughter
of Antonia Gutierrez, a seamstress. Could not my father have sought to legitimize the false mother,
without compromising a lady? Even in my father's life, despite my young age, ever thought this,
but I never dared, or indirectly, to ask anything from my father on the subject. He dodged
the conversation, if by chance fell upon my supposed or real mother Antonia Gutiérrez. After
death, and after I met twenty years, I searched hard to give me something light among his papers.
He tore all the cards of some interest, because it was neglected and afraid to leave them anywhere
and laws. What I have found, therefore, was negligible: or a picture or a word written. Only
on his very body was found this medallion gold, not encrypt or sign.

Luz took from her bosom the medallion of the speaker.

- Since then took the medallion in my breast, as my father's memory. Inside look (and opening,
Dona taught Manolita content), look through this glass, there is a lock of hair blonde even than mine.
Is Antonia Gutierrez will be of any other woman who was my mother, or will some love with my
father, that has nothing to do with me?

Who is to know?

The two old servants are ready to retain both, but both came at home place long after my birth, and
know nothing fixed. Juana came to serve as I had ten years. Three years after Thomas took the
help of my father's camera.

- Did not know of any unique set of life of the Marquis - asked Dona Manolita - by which clarify
some of the mystery of your birth?

- There are, indeed, in the life of my father a singular set; launch occurred two years I have
been born, but set so mysterious that he not elaborate.

May or may not have that set a relationship with the guilt that I have to be.

- What was that set, if I can know?

- My father received one morning a visit, whom nobody saw it because my father opened the door.
The servants could not miss this. He used to receive visitors as well, opening himself and enclosing
them. That morning, half an hour of receiving the visit, called from my father's room with strong
bell. The bedroom door was open. The visit had gone. And the servants found on the carpet a
bloody sword, and also my father lying with another sword wielded, and chest pierced by a wound
mortal. They say it was a miracle of science that is rid of death. Never could find whom, or
why he had hurt. My father was always confined to say would not seek to blame, that the wound had been
fair and square. Rare mourning, indeed, without sponsors, without witnesses, without anyone who has
ever known him, but this painful outcome.

- All this makes me presume - said Dona Manolita - you're the daughter
of a great lady.

- I do not know - said Dona Luz -.

Legally I am the daughter of Antonia Gutierrez, free when he joined with my father. It is better
that life must adultery. Ah! better is that my father I have revealed nothing. How could I
have dishonored my mind clean, fifteen years, impurities and crime? Tired and my mind was troubled
with the shameful disaster Madrid before taking refuge in this place. Had to sell the furniture
that we had to end there payable to usurers and creditors. My father came here humiliated and
melancholy, and soon died. Who wanted that I had returned to Madrid? What role would do in Madrid
the bastard ruined and marquise? The best I could do is what I did, stay here forever.

Thus Dona Luz confided all his secrets to the doctor's daughter.

The friendship of two young women narrowed since then, and beyond it all trusted.

The marriage of Donna Manolita did for the post. A month after giving his side friend was already
married.

His prediction that his marriage did not cool the friendship with Dona Luz was fulfilled to
the letter. Doña Manolita was a great prophet.

Also served as compared with Pepe Güeto she had predicted. Nor was there rod wicker, and she came
over in sewing when I was single, but instead, Pepe Güeto laughed like crazy, especially with
his wife's jokes, which made him very much, and with their laughter
they had for him a lot of pleasantly contagious.

For Dona Luz months passed between both, no other news that the alternate
and regular exchange stations.

Spent the spring, spent the summer and until the month of October,
station vintage.

Something very important would have to say D. Acisclo Dona Luz, when
one morning, having now harvested, came to see her and speak not less
morning that Dona had come Manolita months earlier.

E Villafría reached late at night and handed out at dawn.

Don Acisclo open and brought a letter in his hand, shook with cheers and expressions of satisfaction
and joy.

-VII-

Father Henry

- What? What does that letter? What pleasant news in it? D. Acisclo, have you fallen V. the
lottery? - asked Dona Luz.

- Better than that, my dear, better than that - said the questioning -. Read and find yourself
- and delivered the letter to Dona Luz.

This, before reading, he met the letter and saw the sign that said,
"Enrique."

He was a nephew son of a sister D. Acisclo had, which was a Dominican
friar nephew, resident in the Philippines.

Almost all those who deny it rich perhaps, fortune, fate or luck, they will names seem futile,
behind which hides the sloth, waste, clutter and foolishness. From here to be taken by people wiser,
more reasonable wittiest and wisest of the earth.

And can they about right. I do not deny nor affirmed. I only say that D. Acisclo was. I was very
happy of himself and imagined had no merit higher than yours. All other glory seemed to him less
and less carats. However, a glory to something supernatural and otherworldly, if not in means
in the end, and acquired by member of his family, did not seem to
D. Short Acisclo not assert, and such was the glory of his nephew
Fr Enrique; glory that is somewhat reflected on him and the whole
family.

Was almost a couple of the money acquired ring nobility to his house.

Don Acisclo idolized, then Fr Henry, and spoke of him with complacent boasting, saying:

- Here we serve for all, the same for a scrub that sweep, I wanted
to be a millionaire and I am, Henry gave the sanctity and still we
have to look at the altars -.

To demonstrate and the probable fulfillment of his prediction, D. Often referred Acisclo adventures
Fr Henry: so that Dona Luz known and regarded him as a friend, even though it was about twenty
years he was missing the place and Europe.

All this time I had lived only in Manila. He had been in various lands of the Gentiles, spreading
the light of the Gospel, had spent only credible work, had braved severe hazards, and even had twice
been close to reaching such a cruel death and glorious not life saving but after suffering
prolonged martyrdom.

Referred to these stories by D. Acisclo, it must be confessed, appeared grotesque in details.
For this, the P. Henry wrote to his uncle three or four times a year, and Uncle delighted that
Dona Luz you read the letters aloud.

Well known that Dona Luz P. Henry, more to be brave to heroism, and enthusiastic and earnest
in all acts and apostolic mission was clear the subject of singular
wit and discretion and prudence.

His physique was far from corresponding to their spiritual vigor,
and, while not was even forty years, and in his last letters complained
of broken-sweet his health, which prevented him from working in companies
engaged, and something bothered him in his studies.

Newcomer's letter was very short and brought date of Cadiz. Luz read, and read:

"My dear Uncle: My woes were aggravated to such an extent in Manila, the doctors decided I should
come to Europe to spend a long time.

With the air of the claimed native I replenished. My colleagues threw me out of there: the
same Archbishop sent me I came. There was therefore no choice.

I left Manila and, thank God, I did a happy navigation. Have I been three days in Cadiz, much
stronger now. The day after tomorrow I leave here in the railway to that town. Loving Expressions
to cousins, friends and other relatives, and his hostess V. Miss Dona Luz. He wants to V. a
lot and want embrace, her affectionate nephew. "

Such was the cause of the joy of D. Acisclo nephew was going to hug
the saint, went to live with he would have the pleasure of lucirle
in place.

Luz immediately wanted to move into your house and leave your room in the house of D. Acisclo
to the father should dwell in it.
Acisclo Don said:

- None of that, my daughter. You for anything
you leave my home to live alone in that big house. Moreover, such
a move would precipitate a disorder. I have my plan, and with your
permission, we will perform. I know that Henry loves solitude for
their studies and meditations. Lets go to live in your home. At a
time when there will arrange suitable room. Your house is nearby.
We'll go take care if you fall sick in bed, and when not, he will
come to lunch to eat and chat with us every day.

Luz insisted on
going home, but D. Acisclo remained opposed, and it was necessary
to Dona Luz yield, offering gustosísima your home so that she lived
the Father.

The railroad station is two very long Villafría leagues,
and D. Acisclo available to go aside all the relatives and friends
to receive the Father with great pomp. Indeed, no vehicle left that
were not available. Used three carriages, a trap, property D. Acisclo,
and two cars. Issue were children, sons, daughters, daughters and
grandsons D. Acisclo, priest, physician, Doña Luz, Doña Güeto Manolita
and Pepe, and several other people. Those who do not fit into the
wheeled vehicles were horse or donkey.

Fr Enrique arrived safely
and was greeted with cheers by the mob, on the platform of the station.

The
place was a triumph entry.

For all the cousins ​​came bearing gifts:
for them pure Filipinos in abundance for them, or embroidered shawls,
called in my country of mousse and Manila in Madrid, or fans of the
most exquisite chinoiserie.
He bent forward himself and put out his ancient, veined and knotted, gnarled and trembling
hand, to timorously touch the arm of her he worshipped and adored.

"God bless ye!" he said, his high, cracked voice even more shrill and thin than usual. "God
bless ye!" And as she let her hands slip down, and, turning, gently looked at him, he nodded
to her speakingly, because out of the dimness of his being, some part of Nature's working had
strangely answered and understood.

CHAPTER XLVI

LISTENING

On her way back to the Court her eyes saw only the white road before her feet as she walked.
She did not lift them until she found herself passing the lych-gate at the entrance to the
churchyard. Then suddenly she looked up at the square grey stone tower where the bells hung,
and from which they called the village to church, or chimed for weddings--or gave slowly forth
to the silent air one heavy, regular stroke after another. She looked and shuddered, and spoke
aloud with a curious, passionate imploring, like a child's.

"Oh, don't toll! Don't toll! You must not! You cannot!" Terror had sprung upon her, and her
heart was being torn in two in her breast. That was surely what it seemed like--this agonising
ache of fear. Now from hour to hour she would be waiting and listening to each sound borne
on the air. Her thought would be a possession she could not escape. When she spoke or was spoken
to, she would be listening--when she was silent every echo would hold terror, when she slept--if
sleep should come to her--her hearing would be awake, and she would be listening--listening
even then. It was not Betty Vanderpoel who was walking along the white road, but another creature--a
girl whose brain was full of abnormal thought, and whose whole being made passionate outcry
against the thing which was being slowly forced upon her. If the bell tolled--suddenly, the
whole world would be swept clean of life--empty and clean. If the bell tolled.

Before the entrance of the Court she saw, as she approached it, the vicarage pony carriage,
standing as it had stood on the day she had returned from her walk on the marshes. She felt
it quite natural that it should be there. Mrs. Brent always seized upon any fragment of news,
and having seized on something now, she had not been able to resist the excitement of bringing
it to Lady Anstruthers and her sister.

She was in the drawing-room with Rosalie, and was full of her subject and the emotion suitable
to the occasion. She had even attained a certain modified dampness of handkerchief. Rosalie's
handkerchief, however, was not damp. She had not even attempted to use it, but sat still, her
eyes brimming with tears, which, when she saw Betty, brimmed over and slipped helplessly down
her cheeks.

"Betty!" she exclaimed, and got up and went towards her, "I believe you have heard." The rest I gave to Pep and the shotgun to his son, laughing at the gesture of the little seminary
to be present, coming a bit late ... And would hunt with it when a priest was of the paddocks
of the island.

Took out from his pocket the letter Valls, taking pleasure in reading it slowly, as if increasingly
found in his text news. As I read these paragraphs, which were already family, his mind worked
apart impulses of joy. Good friend Paul! And what in time came his advice! ... He drew from Ibiza
in the most opportune moment, when looked at open war with all those rude people who wanted the
death of a stranger. The captain was not mistaken. What was there, as Robinson, who could not even
enjoy the tranquility of solitude? ... Valls, timely as always, fought
the danger.

His life of hours earlier when he had not received the letter, it seemed absurd and ridiculous .. Now
it was another man. Smiling with pity and shame that crazy that the day before, leading the shotgun
over his shoulder, had taken the path of the mountain to look for a former inmate, challenging
him to savage fighting in the lonely forest. As if all life on earth was concentrated on the small
island and had to kill to be in it! ... As if had no life or civilization beyond the blue sheet
surrounding this piece of land, with primitive human group soul, petrified in the customs of
other ages! This was the last night of wild life. The next day, everything that happened it would
not be than an agglomeration of interesting memories, with whose
story could entertain your friends Borne.

Febrer cut suddenly thought, separating the eyes from the paper. Having found her eyes half
of the room in shadow and half in a reddish light that shook objects seemed to come from the
Far trip that drew his imagination. Still alive in the Pirate's Tower, still standing in the
midst of gloom, one populated by lonely Rumors of Nature, within
a block of stone walls seemed to sweat murky mystery.

Something had blown off the tower: a scream, a howl, as distinct from
the other night, more smothered farthest.

Jaime had the feeling that this cry came from very close, that someone threw perhaps hidden
in groups of tamarisk.

He focused his attention, and soon the cry rang again.

It was the same aucamiento of the other night, but deaf, softly, hoarse, as if they were afraid
of throwing the cry from spreading too much, putting his hands around his mouth to send with this
natural horn only to the tower.

After the first surprise, laughed quietly, shrugging his shoulders.
I did not think to move.

What do you care about these customs and primitive peasants these challenges? "Howl, good man;
scream until you get tired, I am deaf. "
And to distract his attention he read the letter, delighting in the
taste of the long list of creditors, many of whose names evoke visions
angry or grotesque memories.

The howling continued playing at long
intervals, and each time he cut husky shrillness silence, Febrer shook
with impatience and anger. "Christ! Was she going to pass and the
night, kept awake by this serenade threatening ?...» He will feel even ours--ours too!
His soul cannot be lonely."

A few minutes earlier, Mrs. Brent had been saying to herself inwardly: "She has not much heart
after all, you know." Now she looked at her in amazement.

The blue bells were under water in truth--drenched and drowned. And yet as the girl stood up
before her, she looked taller--more the magnificent Miss Vanderpoel than ever--though she expressed
a new meaning.

"There is one thing the villagers can do for him," she said. "One thing we can all do. The
bell has not tolled yet. There is a service for those who are--in peril. If the vicar will
call the people to the church, we can all kneel down there--and ask to be heard. The vicar
will do that I am sure--and the people will join him with all their hearts."

Mrs. Brent was overwhelmed.

"Dear, dear, Miss Vanderpoel!" she exclaimed. "THAT is touching, indeed it is! And so right
and so proper. I will drive back to the village at once. The vicar's distress is as great as
mine. You think of everything. The service for the sick and dying. How right--how right!"

With a sense of an increase of value in herself, the vicar, and the vicarage, she hastened
back to the pony carriage, but in the hall she seized Betty's hand emotionally.

"I cannot tell you how much I am touched by this," she murmured. "I did not know you were--were
a religious girl, my dear." Wow, that is
good! Well I say it or print it on paper! That, my master, Don Marcelo, and the jito is passed
over as much of right ... and no good.

Well, well, it's an idea! - This is Lituca, put your finger on the sore, neither more nor less,
and call things by their names, even though you apparently believe
otherwise to pass the buck ... and pardon me the frankness. - But
if you have not reached that case, trapacerÃ³n of the devil, how do
I answer him? - In the event that I have come to you the question.
- But you know better than me what is said than done. - It is true
that I know, not better, but, on the traces, as well as you, and yet,
I insist on the question, leaving us eventually more or less possible
or probable and placing in the real and positive and practicable .

And so I ask again: today, this minute,
as you are, as you think and feel, which of the above suitors choose?

Which of these do you
think, today, right now, I'd be happier having you for a husband?
- But, my heavenly Mother!

... Look who is the subject of this
man of Satan!

How am I to tell me these things? - As others
say, Lituca ... - Well, I told endenantes, and perfectly clear. - And
answered perfectly clear to you that it was impossible to ask. -
For that reason I ask ... That same desire now. - I do not agree
that response to my question.

There was now living as you live, and here it is live otherwise
very different. - Then call it hache, yet with it. - I can not I
call it. - And come on, Jesus is Lord, to the rattle!

How can any soul of God, that you tell? - In Castilian current ... by
law ... no escape lanes. - Lifetime !...-- and here he made a grimace
of impatience of most magicians I've seen a woman, and even gave two
slaps on her lap, and then, straightening and stiffening the cunning
head slightly voice and gesture, he said -: "And in sum and discharge,
what obligation do I have to declare it, nor does it matter to the
Nah, you know?

I pretended to take seriously and as a hard lesson these words and
only replied to them to forgive my boldness ... Then let the rogue
other laugh, and said in a tone that showed the largest casual desire,
if by chance I was really annoyed me: - So now that the shock to punish
the mischief, for mischief is, and large, the coaxing a woman who
never had thoughts ... But Tochon on me - suddenly exclaimed ruefully
clasping his hands and the face -.



"God in Heaven!" was her inward cry. "God of all the worlds! Do not let him die. 'If ye ask
anything in my name that I will do.' Christ said it. In the name of Jesus of Nazareth--do not
let him die! All the worlds are yours--all the power--listen to us--listen to us. Lord, I believe--help
thou my unbelief. If this terror robs me of faith, and I pray madly--forgive, forgive me. Do
not count it against me as sin. You made him. He has suffered and been alone. It is not time--it
is not time yet for him to go. He has known no joy and no bright thing. Do not let him go out
of the warm world like a blind man. Do not let him die. Perhaps this is not prayer, but raging.
Forgive--forgive! All power is gone from me. God of the worlds, and the great winds, and the
myriad stars--do not let him die!"

She knew her thoughts were wild, but their torrent bore her with them into a strange, great
silence. She did not hear the vicar's words, or the responses of the people. She was not within
the grey stone walls. She had been drawn away as into the darkness and stillness of the night,
and no soul but her own seemed near. Through the stillness and the dark her praying seemed
to call and echo, clamouring again and again. It must reach Something--it must be heard, because
she cried so loud, though to the human beings about her she seemed kneeling in silence. She
went on and on, repeating her words, changing them, ending and beginning again, pouring forth
a flood of appeal. She thought later that the flood must have been at its highest tide when,
singularly, it was stemmed. Without warning, a wave of awe passed over her which strangely
silenced her--and left her bowed and kneeling, but crying out no more. The darkness had become
still, even as it had not been still before. Suddenly she cowered as she knelt and held her
breath. Something had drawn a little near. No thoughts--no words--no cries were needed as the
great stillness grew and spread, and folded her being within it. She waited--only waited. She
did not know how long a time passed before she felt herself drawn back from the silent and
shadowy places--awakening, as it were, to the sounds in the church.

"Our Father," she began to say, as simply as a child. "Our Father who art in Heaven--hallowed
be thy name." There was a stirring among the congregation, and sounds of feet, as the people
began to move down the aisle in reverent slowness. She caught again the occasional sound of
a subdued sob. Rosalie gently touched her, and she rose, following her out of the big pew and
passing down the aisle after the villagers.

Outside the entrance the people waited as if they wanted to see her again. Foreheads were touched
as before, and eyes followed her. She was to the general mind the centre of the drama, and
"the A'mighty" would do well to hear her. She had been doing his work for him "same as his
lordship." They did not expect her to smile at such a time, when she returned their greetings,
and she did not, but they said afterwards, in their cottages, that "trouble or not she was
a wonder for looks, that she was--Miss Vanderpoel."

Rosalie slipped a hand through her arm, and they walked home together, very close to each other.
Now and then there was a questioning in Rosy's look. But neither of them spoke once.

On an oak table in the hall a letter from Mr. Penzance was lying. It was brief, hurried, and
anxious. The rumour that Mount Dunstan had been ailing was true, and that they had felt they
must conceal the matter from the villagers was true also. For some baffling reason the fever
had not absolutely declared itself, but the young doctors were beset by grave forebodings.
In such cases the most serious symptoms might suddenly develop. One never knew. Mr. Penzance
was evidently torn by fears which he desperately strove to suppress. But Betty could see the
anguish on his fine old face, and between the lines she read dread and warning not put into
words. She believed that, fearing the worst, he felt he must prepare her mind.

"He has lived under a great strain for months," he ended. "It began long before the outbreak
of the fever. I am not strong under my sense of the cruelty of things--and I have never loved
him as I love him to-day."

Betty took the letter to her room, and read it two or three times. Because she had asked intelligent
questions of the medical authority she had consulted on her visit to London, she knew something
of the fever and its habits. Even her unclerical knowledge was such as it was not well to reflect
upon. She refolded the letter and laid it aside.

"I must not think. I must do something. It may prevent my listening," she said aloud to the
silence of her room.

She cast her eyes about her as if in search. Upon her desk lay a notebook. She took it up and
opened it. It contained lists of plants, of flower seeds, of bulbs, and shrubs. Each list was
headed with an explanatory note.

"Yes, this will do," she said. "I will go and talk to Kedgers."

Kedgers and every man under him had been at the service, but they had returned to their respective
duties. Kedgers, giving directions to some under gardeners who were clearing flower beds and
preparing them for their winter rest, turned to meet her as she approached. To Kedgers the
sight of her coming towards him on a garden path was a joyful thing. He had done wonders, it
is true, but if she had not stood by his side with inspiration as well as confidence, he knew
that things might have "come out different."

"You was born a gardener, miss--born one," he had said months ago.

It was the time when flower beds must be planned for the coming year. Her notebook was filled
with memoranda of the things they must talk about.

It was good, normal, healthy work to do. The scent of the rich, damp, upturned mould was a
good thing to inhale. They walked from one end to another, stood before clumps of shrubs, and
studied bits of wall. Here a mass of blue might grow, here low things of white and pale yellow.
A quickly-climbing rose would hang sheets of bloom over this dead tree. This sheltered wall
would hold warmth for a Marechal Niel.

"You must take care of it all--even if I am not here next year," Miss Vanderpoel said. Henbane has some importance in the treatment of certain
transfers that have more mental and less erethism passibility in the effects of belladonna,
but moral and nervous phenomena are almost similar in form. We talk about hobbies furious,
from the melancholic, the lipemanía with silence and continuous apprehension when there is
constipation, agitation at times and photophobia.

Encephalitis in children in the exudation period, calls from the time henbane acuity of completion
and belladonna and is not indicated, when the eyes are prominent and turbulent and there is
no irritation from the first period is characteristic of zinc, aconite and belladonna even or jimson
furious delirium, or the continuing resolution of muscle forces that are noted on the digital.
Mercury is a powerful auxiliary henbane in these cases, and even
better in consecutive paralysis of the meninges.

Henbane is effective in the last period of puerperal fever with suppression of lochia, nervous
delirium, general pallor, slight convulsions, be alive. In general, the suppression of lochia and
its excess, require this medication, just as the suppression rules and clear blood metrorrhagia. In
the suppression of the lochia is a subdelirio accompanied by horrific visions, pallor and
inertia of the fiber that difference of belladonna. When there is excess flow also shows the inertia
of the fiber, general spasms, gradual weakening of the senses, increasing the flow to each convulsive
shock, both loquial as menstrual.

These various symptoms differentiate their action of ipecac and rye ergot.

Whooping cough, dry, and purely nervous, and a row of pneumonia, especially
if you have or increases at night, is more typical of Bethlehem, the
chamomile.

In these Pertussis cases and is often necessary to repeat the dose.

= Dose .=-- Henbane is administered at the dose and the way the aconite,
the aloes, belladonna.

Ignatia (SAN IGNACIO BEAN .-- IGNACIA).

§ I. - History.

Grains are used (St. Ignatius bean) of this plant family apocíneas, Juss .-- In the pentandria
monoginia, Linn .-- This drug is mentioned in the treaties materia medica in union with nux vomica,
strychnine, on account of, the active common them both. Murray has collected all the observations
relating to the first. Jaerg and Hahnemann the have experiments.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

We can say in general that the ignacia has properties very similar to those of Walnut vomica,
with the difference that the former has more instability phenomena
in nerve and less strongly affects the organs of circulation.

Hahnemann did not appear to has had full reason to say that this product is particularly suitable
for treat acute illnesses, if such are defined as febrile illnesses. It is true that generally
speaking, are not suitable for chronic diseases, that his specialty is spasmodic nervous affections,
or its exacerbation, and fevers dependent slow of a moral boost or nervous, but even in this case,
whatever you want efficiency, need the competition or drug help more fixed and lasting action.

The
relationship is ignacia as nux vomica, with gastric diseases nervosa, the condition that their
symptoms worsen in the morning rather than evening, and recognize because one regret, and moral
causes depressing, rather than anger and emotions sudden.

The ignacia sometimes produces joy and good humor, and other diseases sad , sentimental, and
with more frequency, fast alternative hilarity and tearfulness. The medicine and nux vomica have
pathogenetic effects in pain dislacerantes and cramping, aggravated by touch, motion, for the
outdoors and the application heat.

The ignacia work on the spinal system, while also altering why nerves ganglion and these viscera
and chest, digestive organs and the venous system; but losing its activity, the more it is separated
from the spinal nerves, and ceasing to therefore be similar to the nux vomica in its influence on the
venous system and gastric which it follows that their action is more nervous and less extensive.

This
action essentially Nerve ignacia expresses himself by a remarkable variation calorification unequally distributed,
variation and change to the provisions Este moral.

However, gastric symptoms and which expresses the extent of medical action nutrient to life,
are fixed and permanent. Not without interest to observe, with a teacher Vienna therapeutics that
these same conditions are specific to gastric ignacia, especially in persons of a lively and
fresh, as opposed to requiring the nux vomica.

Moral status in harmony with the changes produced by Ignatius in the healthy, temperament is nervous
and frail, and also that of the sensitive and deeply impressed by a love or even annoyed. Gastric ailments
resulting from these moral causes, which generally concentrate their
action in schools epigastric correspond directly to the action of
Ignacio on the same centers and make this drug is quite effective
in diseases caused by affliction and sorrows, and even play in gastric
and neuropathic conditions resulting from a thwarted love or unhappy.

This medicine is thus more typical of nervous temperaments and delicate constitutions and sensitive
to the blood or lymphatic temperaments, it is also the versatility convulsive nervous diseases
of children, especially if nutrition is impaired; , then, occupies a place among the ignacia chamomile
and ipecac.

Its action is more beneficial in children affected with the dentition,
and people hysterical or very sensitive and impressionable up the
excess.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

Conditions typical of Ignatius are, in general, or catarrhal intermittent: the chills and the heat
is unevenly distributed, thirst occurs more in the cold during the heat symptoms are observed and
even gastric mucosal vomiting, constipation, cold interior heat in the skin, anxiety agitation
which requires a change of position at every instant, sudden dizziness, pain in the viscera contusive,
weakness and depression. In fevers intermittent, sometimes the heat is great, but with the character
that makes him nervous Dry and varies the redness of the cheeks, the gastric symptoms, as well
as feeling of emptiness in the stomach that accompanies them, are more pronounced during the accesses.
In catarrhal fever, aches contusive are quickly replaced with lancinating
erratic and fast, the cough is dry, even when fluent coryza, and is
produced by a internal irritation, a tingling sensation in the trachea.

In people nervous always seen twitching and even convulsions in children.

Ignacia is administered after eyebright when the cough is presented for access and is continuous
throughout the day, that remains moist coryza, especially if symptoms of angina. It will chamomile
after the febrile diseases of childhood, when spasms have been reported, and symptoms of reaction
have lost their sharpness or that The excitement has given blood.

The ignacia is also referred to allay spasms anxious to remain at the beginning of a fever mucosa,
after aconite and chamomile.

The ignacia is preferable to the henbane and hemlock, where bluetongue
is less coughing at night that day: the first is more related to the
lining of the bronchial irritations with rattling mucous and hoarseness.

The lime sulfur and eyebright extends its action to the conjunctiva irritation in the period, which
soon passes, and one of his characters is always the hoarseness.

The ignacia is indicated in bilious colic with dysenteric stools or constipation, if there
is great nervous irritability. Its action is generally useful in gastric neuropathy and uterine
aroused the sympathies of the nervous system and even the circulation
ratio, febrile movements which dominates the nervousness.

Chronic constipation is erethism nervous or call in people willing to erratic and highly irritating
sensitive, yields Ignacio, often repeatedly.

The irregularity of the rules, but with excess menstrual flow in women hysterical or very nervous,
requires the use of ignacia: in these cases, changes were seen in
various sensitivity, such as nail hysterical, migraine, toothache,
various neuralgias, spasms, the ball almost always hysterical, anxiety,
palpitations, puffs of heat in uppers, partial and no uncomfortable
heat steadily.

The ignacia has a remarkable action on the mucous membranes at their point of union with the
skin, which is highly recommended: 1. No cracks in the lips, irritation, dryness, pain and pronounced
redness of the parts, the zinc is more in the cracks with pale; pulsatility, if color is blue,
the sea salt and phosphorus, if cracks are crusting mercury, abrasions and ulcer exudates, the
mezereum, more analogous to ignacia in this special case, as the
former differs from the general characters of their action on the
body.

2. No cracks in the anus, itching, throbbing, constricting pain: these are linear, shallow and
together, usually with exudation. Acid is indicated for cracks whip more irregular or more deep,
exuding that they bleed easily, and relate to some remote symptoms
of syphilis.

Lead, in its action on the year, is more analogous Ignatius, but differs in all the other symptoms.

3.
º prolapsus In the rectum with or without cracks: in the first case, the crack causes prolapse
of the rectum through the efforts of expulsion and contractions which excites; healed the rift,
stops the descent of the rectum and pains and contractions in the
second case, Ignacio is one of the best curative, especially in children.

4.

º In the year itch, and so on caused by roundworms, but in this case, Valerian is preferred
in children, even when seizures. The marum and sulfur may be necessary auxiliary to the ignacia.
The espigelia is also indicated in pruritus these species when they occur after a fever or
that occur during the course of a fever verminous, and have been sympathetically aroused anxieties
palpitations, nervous disorders generally.

5. º conjunctivitis in some children and adults, when the conjunctiva tumeface forming a bun
and investing outwards. Only in this circumstance and before hypertrophy the lid margin is when should
the ignacia, is the drug most useful in ophthalmia of newborns, when developing conjunctival
impeller.

The ignacia plays little skin conditions, but is useful as an accessory in the intertrigo, in erythema
of the members in sensitive or nervous persons, and particularly in a species burning itch that occupies
most of the skin and disappears after scratching. Conditions it is more advantageous and more
often useful this drug, its elective action the spinal nerves are neuro, neuralgia and spasms,
whose characters go to indicate.

The ignacia and ipecacuanha are very similar in body spasm with stiffness, stretching, spasmodic
jerking of the limbs, and movements in the muscles of the face, but
is more ignacia in particular, congestion shooting in the head, pale
alternative and redness of one cheek, and the irregularity in the
distribution of heat.

The action of this drug in the spinal cord seconded by which also owns about ganglionic nervous
system, makes it effective in spasms caused by indignation Fast concentrations in this system,
and the regret that occurs from the beginning a chronic. Chorea or St. Vitus dance, seizures and
epileptiform access isolated, especially if they depend on the work of digestion, and relieves the
supine the first, are treated with nerve ignacia in people or whose nutrition is impaired.
In these cases, every emotion of regret or disappointment or renewed spasms access seizure.
When Belladonna is preferable for the congestive symptoms of the brain, ignacia advantage can happen
in similar circumstances, for example, eclampsia with repeated convulsion of the muscles of the
face and spasms in the esophagus. Ipecac plays In the same affection with diarrhea, the jimson weed,
when the phenomena are more nervous brain that blood, rye ergot, if there is tremor or contraction
of various muscles, jump Tendon and shortness of breath.

The migraine that corresponds to ignacia depends on a spinal irritation, excepting that of People
them extremely irritable, and always accompanying spasms. Headaches and teeth, neuralgia of
the limbs and trunk, whether rheumatic or not, require ignacia when and how sudden bursts of
pain. Differ little from those of espigelia and phosphorus, without the tension and regular constipation
without the aggravation of pain by heat, without relief by changing position without some periodicity
in their appearance, without the influence of some causes, such as fear, noise, alcohol, coffee.
The treatment of rheumatoid arthritis the common claim in the subacute
period ignacia or apyretic.

This drug is probably effective in some mental dispositions, characterized by disgust for all, by
indifference, shock, general debility, and that depend on grief, mortifications and chronic
or repeated shocks.

It is important to note that symptoms ignacia are entities claiming the resentment and indignation,
as well as contraindications to joy and pleasure.

But do not insist on its therapeutic use, although many symptoms make it advisable in other
conditions, because the clinical observation is incomplete, and because it has not yet used enough.

=
Dose .=-- The pilot unfamiliar with this medicine may be used at the dose of one to four drops
of the tincture, or first dilution in water. But their frequent use and the need be elected
by the similarity of their symptoms tend to prefer a drop or a few cells the third, sixth or
twelfth attenuation in five or six tablespoons of pure water, given
at short intervals, every four or five minutes, in cases of spasmodic
affections or neuralgic.

IODIUM (IODINE).

§ I. - History.

Introduced this metalloid in the medical field almost in our days,
already enjoys great celebrity.

Recommended first, and with reason, in the goiter, soon it spread its indication to all infarctions
nodes and glands, also to be so after the many accidents Secondary syphilis is in order today
as a panacea for many therapeutic, filling himself a newspaper.

It is fair to agree on the truth of the utmost importance that iodine has conquered. Invaded We
are today a multitude of organic disorders in a triple way threaten future of all families,
secondary and tertiary syphilis, tuber and scrofula, three diathesis that profoundly affect the
economy and the organic cell, and that the iodine appears must modify more advantageously than any of
the medicines in the materia medica old who have resisted the routine, esclusive systems and modern
skepticism. No we admire because of its high clinical fortune. But the confusion and doubts
that have arisen in our time in the reports and the Academy [4] on the effects of iodine,
and indications, prove how great is the ease with which we have proceeded in the frequent
use of this medicine. Certainly you can ensure that if they were a severe test of the entire
medical field former, few drugs would no longer produce the same confusion in the appreciation of
its physiological and therapeutic effects.

In this way it would come to recognize that the law of such a principle is not negligible, and
that the work of Hahnemann and medical, school or his followers supporters of other methods
have been dedicated to Experience " formal, are of great importance.

Iodine compounds are known: barium iodide, iodide of calcium, iron, the protoyoduro potassium
or potash hidriodato, iodides of mercury. The hidriodato of potassium salt of iodine is the most
used and which relates to what we say about this simple body. Its action differs only by the
lower activity and milder effects and more graduates. The Other combinations of iodine and
iron, mercury, etc., are likely to call to spread abroad the therapeutic
action of this medicine, the practice has been enriched with some
new facts, but the EXPERIENCE needed in this case, and indications
of these iodine compounds can only be clearly established with physiological
experiments and clinics.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

The action of iodine on the nervous system is fleeting and inconsistent in principle, but the
modification induced on the node innervation and liquids, ie their Dyscrasic effects, alter the nervous
system of the life of relationship to the point of producing neuralgic symptoms that correspond
with sufficient accuracy to which expresses the diathesis scrofulous and syphilitic mercurial,
such are wandering pains in the joints, lacerations in them and even members at night, feeling of heaviness
and trembling in them, muscle tremors, staggering gait, great weakness, and in particular, cramps
fingers, pain in the arms osteócopos pains to disturb sleep, convulsive
movements and tremors of the arms and hands, numbness of the fingers
of these, pain, heaviness, paralytic weakness of the legs, cramps
in the feet at night.

The circulatory system undergoes a first alteration which is fully excitants characterized by
increased heat in the skin blood turgor communicating a burgeoning health aspect; hard, fast
heartbeat, ninety beats, headache and congestion into the gravatar head and the larynx, chest,
heart, stomach, intestines, tightness and coughing bloody sputum. This initial excitement
is replaced by increased secretions; by passive congestion or subacute; by local irritation of
the mucous membranes eyes, nose, larynx, of the genito-urinary, for a state gastric characterized
by heartburn, nausea, vomiting, difficult digestion, colic, development
gas, irregular bowel movements, for violent and momentary palpitation
of the heart .....

If you continue the use of iodine, soon more and
more altered digestion, blood becomes more serous, the skin takes
on a dirty, sticky sweat, weak pulse, the veins are filled with a
rich blood poorly crafted items, fat and other substances absorbed,
its walls weakened distend, the veins swell, the weakness increases
muscle tremors occur in the limbs, anxiety, easily frightened, painful
dreams.

Marasmus is notable, they disappear glands to adipose tissue and are absorbed; secretions increase
simultaneously, and become more copious mucous flow, sputum, diarrhea, leucorrhoea, etc.. The
nervous system takes great irritability, and occurs, Finally, a state erethism with diminution
or suppression of the secretions, continuous fever and more often sender, swelling and bloating
of the abdomen, constipation, impressionability fiber and sense organs, depression, anxiety, extremity
weakness .....

Hahnemann thus summarizes the symptoms that indicate iodine [5]: numbness in the morning, throbbing
in the head, itchy eyes, ringing in the ears, disecea, coated tongue, salivation, taste like
soap in the mouth, belching, acid burning, heartburn after ingestion of undigested food, ravenous hunger,
nausea, flatuosidades, constipation, urination in bed rules delayed,
chronic cough in the morning, difficulty breathing, swelling of the
exterior neck laxity of the arms in the morning in bed, numbness of
the fingers, twist bone, skin dryness, night sweats.

After these symptoms that Hahnemann refers to try this medicine, he could add the following table:
pain and irritation throat, fluent coryza, lacrimation, and dryness or irritation of the mucous
and sluggish flow mucous, acne pustules especially on the face and back, shake hands then extends
to the whole body.
 This man had been, and who dare say
he was not--even now? The strength of his great body, the look in his red-brown eyes, the sound
of his deep voice, the struggle, the meaning of him, where were they? She heard herself followed
by the hollow echo of Childe Harold's hoofs, as she rode past copse and hedge, and wet spreading
fields. She was this hour as he had been a month ago. If, with some strange suddenness, this
which was Betty Vanderpoel, slipped from its body----She put her hand up to her forehead. It
was unthinkable that there would be no more. Where was he now--where was he now?

This was the thought that filled her brain cells to the exclusion of all others. Over the road,
down through by-lanes, out on the marshes. Where was he--where was he--WHERE? Childe Harold's
hoofs began to beat it out as a refrain. She heard nothing else. She did not know where she
was going and did not ask herself. She went down any road or lane which looked empty of life,
she took strange turnings, without caring; she did not know how far she was afield.

Where was he now--this hour--this moment--where was he now? Did he know the rain, the greyness,
the desolation of the world?

Once she stopped her horse on the loneliness of the marsh land, and looked up at the low clouds
about her, at the creeping mist, the dank grass. It seemed a place in which a newly-released
soul might wander because it did not yet know its way.

"If you should be near, and come to me, you will understand," her clear voice said gravely
between the caught breaths, "what I gave you was nothing to you--but you took it with you.
Perhaps you know without my telling you. I want you to know. When a man is dead, everything
melts away. I loved you. I wish you had loved me."

CHAPTER XLVIII

THE MOMENT

In the unnatural unbearableness of her anguish, she lost sight of objects as she passed them,
she lost all memory of what she did. She did not know how long she had been out, or how far
she had ridden. When the thought of time or distance vaguely flitted across her mind, it seemed
that she had been riding for hours, and might have crossed one county and entered another.
She had long left familiar places behind. Riding through and inclosed by the mist, she, herself,
might have been a wandering ghost, lost in unknown places. Where was he now--where was he now?

Afterwards she could not tell how or when it was that she found herself becoming conscious
of the evidences that her horse had been ridden too long and hard, and that he was worn out
with fatigue. She did not know that she had ridden round and round over the marshes, and had
passed several times through the same lanes. Childe Harold, the sure of foot, actually stumbled,
out of sheer weariness of limb. Perhaps it was this which brought her back to earth, and led
her to look around her with eyes which saw material objects with comprehension. She had reached
the lonely places, indeed and the evening was drawing on. She was at the edge of the marsh,
and the land about her was strange to her and desolate. At the side of a steep lane, overgrown
with grass, and seeming a mere cart-path, stood a deserted-looking, black and white, timbered
cottage, which was half a ruin. Close to it was a dripping spinney, its trees forming a darkling
background to the tumble-down house, whose thatch was rotting into holes, and its walls sagging
forward perilously. The bit of garden about it was neglected and untidy, here and there windows
were broken, and stuffed with pieces of ragged garments. Altogether a sinister and repellent
place enough.

She looked at it with heavy eyes. (Where was he now--where was he now?--This repeating itself
in the far chambers of her brain.) Her sight seemed dimmed, not only by the mist, but by a
sinking faintness which possessed her. She did not remember how little food she had eaten during
more than twenty-four hours. I admire much
to Dante, but I can not believe they are only mentioned in his poem theologies and philosophies
that in more detail, clarity, substance and can be studied in order San Anselmo, San Bernardo,
Peter Lombard, St. Bonaventure, St. Thomas Aquinas and other Doctors of the Middle Ages. So
if I think of Dante, what do you think of Zola and what I believe Zola who can teach me, not learn
best in any encyclopedic manual: the Bouillet, for example?
 Poor beast! how wickedly she must have been riding him, in her utter
absorption in her thoughts. He was wet, not alone with rain, but with sweat. He snorted out
hot, smoking breaths.

She spoke to him, and he moved forward at her command. He was trembling too. Not more than
two hundred yards, and she turned him into the lane. But it was wet and slippery, and strewn
with stones. His trembling and her uncertain hold on the bridle combined to produce disaster.
He set his foot upon a stone which slid beneath it, he stumbled, and she could not help him
to recover, so he fell, and only by Heaven's mercy not upon her, with his crushing, big-boned
weight, and she was able to drag herself free of him before he began to kick, in his humiliated
efforts to rise. But he could not rise, because he was hurt--and when she, herself, got up,
she staggered, and caught at the broken gate, because in her wrenching leap for safety she
had twisted her ankle, and for a moment was in cruel pain.

When she recovered from her shock sufficiently to be able to look at the cottage, she saw that
it was more of a ruin than it had seemed, even at a short distance. Its door hung open on broken
hinges, no smoke rose from the chimney, because there was no one within its walls to light
a fire. It was quite empty. Everything about the place lay in dead and utter silence. In a
normal mood she would have liked the mystery of the situation, and would have set about planning
her way out of her difficulty. But now her mind made no effort, because normal interest in
things had fallen away from her. She might be twenty miles from Stornham, but the possible
fact did not, at the moment, seem to concern her. (Where is he now--where is he now?) Childe
Harold was trying to rise, despite his hurt, and his evident determination touched her. He
was too proud to lie in the mire. She limped to him, and tried to steady him by his bridle.
He was not badly injured, though plainly in pain.

"Poor boy, it was my fault," she said to him as he at last struggled to his feet. "I did not
know I was doing it. Poor boy!"

He turned a velvet dark eye upon her, and nosed her forgivingly with a warm velvet muzzle,
but it was plain that, for the time, he was done for. They both moved haltingly to the broken
gate, and Betty fastened him to a thorn tree near it, where he stood on three feet, his fine
head drooping.

She pushed the gate open, and went into the house through the door which hung on its hinges.
Once inside, she stood still and looked about her. If there was silence and desolateness outside,
there was within the deserted place a stillness like the unresponse of death. It had been long
since anyone had lived in the cottage, but tramps or gipsies had at times passed through it.
Dead, blackened embers lay on the hearth, a bundle of dried grass which had been slept on was
piled in the corner, an empty nail keg and a wooden box had been drawn before the big chimney
place for some wanderer to sit on when the black embers had been hot and red.

Betty gave one glance around her and sat down upon the box standing on the bare hearth, her
head sinking forward, her hands falling clasped between her knees, her eyes on the brick floor.

"Where is he now?" broke from her in a loud whisper, whose sound was mechanical and hollow.
"Where is he now?"

And she sat there without moving, while the grey mist from the marshes crept close about the
door and through it and stole about her feet.

So she sat long--long--in a heavy, far-off dream.

Along the road a man was riding with a lowering, fretted face. He had come across country on
horseback, because to travel by train meant wearisome stops and changes and endlessly slow
journeying, annoying beyond endurance to those who have not patience to spare. His ride would
have been pleasant enough but for the slow mist-like rain. Also he had taken a wrong turning,
because he did not know the roads he travelled. The last signpost he had passed, however, had
given him his cue again, and he began to feel something of security. Confound the rain! The
best road was slippery with it, and the haze of it made a man's mind feel befogged and lowered
his spirits horribly--discouraged him--would worry him into an ill humour even if he had reason
to be in a good one. As for him, he had no reason for cheerfulness--he never had for the matter
of that, and just now----! What was the matter with his horse? He was lifting his head and
sniffing the damp air restlessly, as if he scented or saw something. Beasts often seemed to
have a sort of second sight--horses particularly.

What ailed him that he should prick up his ears and snort after his sniffing the mist! Did
he hear anything? Yes, he did, it seemed. He gave forth suddenly a loud shrill whinny, turning
his head towards a rough lane they were approaching, and immediately from the vicinity of a
deserted-looking cottage behind a hedge came a sharp but mournful-sounding neigh in answer.

"What horse is that?" said Nigel Anstruthers, drawing in at the entrance to the lane and looking
down it. "There is a fine brute with a side-saddle on," he added sharply. "He is waiting for
someone. What is a woman doing there at this time? Is it a rendezvous? A good place----"

He broke off short and rode forward. 

But if great! amid all this enthusiasm, Dona Luz had had no Boyfriend: Do not talk about or
talked to anyone on the fence. What she did was crowd had suitors, though she had given hope
to none. The richest young Some leagues around the already considered impregnable fortress.
The hope, all, it is ever lost. The men in this matter of sexual conquests, promise to us, often
happy. So, if the place had already been refreshed and disillusioned, not missing even strangers,
as long as they were subjects of a stem, that is stirred to see Dona Luz, and proposed himself back
in, get what others had failed; but soon also disappointed.

With this worship resolved with this itching to be matched, had found
many or simultaneously or successively.

None had come to explain. He composed Dona Luz so that had not ever seen the need for formal hard
squash, or excite the resentment that this entails. It was difficult to talk to her alone. It
was difficult to get their hands letter or billet-doux. And while, thanks to some old bold
that wherever there are plenty of Dona Luz had received little notes in prose and even in verse,
had consistently returned unopened. In view of these and other slights, all lovers finally desist
from their purpose, no reason and no excuse to complain.

And I could not any, because Dona Luz rightly offensive silent. He
did not feel inclined to marriage.

Not love. No one sends in his heart. Such were his reasons.

Someone might suspect but not prove invincible repugnance to everything vulgar and plebeian and
the horror that gripped her at the thought of being able to one day have a son who carry his
illustrious family name after another dark and rustic name of some rich guy villain.

In short: Dona Luz, if he could not expect to marry at will, or had not betrayed no desire. Everything
was quiet and contentment she coolly smooth. In vain, the worst thought of the men would dare
to look at their actions, their words, their gestures and gesture,
the slightest sign that was spurned.

Luz was not true. He had taken his party had strongly path advance the path of his life. The
derisive phrase to stay for Aunt or dress pictures made no dent in
your firm and steely heart, nor could violate it, nor inclined to
accept husband with the sole purpose of not reaching spinster.

Several wealthy relatives, who had Dona Luz in Seville and Madrid, had been invited to went to live
with them: but, or because they really were, or because he suspected Dona Luz, the invitations
had been more than heart for compliance. In addition, Mrs. Light was considered very poor for
its class, and would not be burdensome, nor live at the expense of
others and in a kind dependence close to servitude.

There was, therefore, refused all invitations. His plan was to live and die obscurely in Villafría.

The
same impurity of his origin, birth defect, the humble condition of unknown mother, worked for
reaction in his mind and almost turned his fierce pride.

To clean original spot that I wanted to be Dona Luz much cleaner
and more pure.

I did not want pordiosear not owe anything to anyone.

Retained without selling his ancestral home the place with its antique furniture and two servants.
If did not live there, thinking later life, or because they don Acisclo
could be missing or because, entered her in years, one might wonder
that he lived alone.

Meanwhile, Dona Luz lived in the mansion of Don Acisclo, where he
had ample independent room, where he had brought to adorn her most
beautiful and precious furniture and better books.

In return for this hospitality, gift Acisclo did accept, though it
had resisted, more than half their income, or 8,000 reais a year.

With the rest, as economic era and arranged, was enough to dress, buy some new books and do
charity.

The only luxury, the unique gift of Dona Luz was a magnificent black horse, which used her out
to walk with D. Acisclo or a servant named Thomas, who had grown old in for her father.

Don Acisclo was a widower so long. He had two sons and three daughters, all married and a separate
house, so that in the wide expanse of that vast solitude mansion, Dona Luz and D. Acisclo gave
each other's company.

Verged and D. Acisclo in seventy years, but he was strong and in good
health.

He was right as a spindle, was a man agile and lean meat, and if he knew no more than read and
write fairly and the four rules, and if he had never read a book, had great natural clearing,
even crude. I had never troubled his conscience with moral subtleties. So, not to his heart, as
we said, had contributed to the ruin of the Marquis. If she had taken advantage of her best
He seemed to have been no other.

Much would have hurt to see the flow into foreign hands of his master.

Poseíale, therefore, in good faith with just title, and up to and
indeed feeling of reverence for the memory of the illustrious deceased
owner.

Such worship is extended, or rather, are extreme and reached its height,
without affecting or servility, when it was Miss Dona Luz, who, fascinated
by the old man, believed discover a being whose arcane thoughts, mobile,
and springs of action, barely glimpsed; a rare and unusual creatures
from another caste very different from yours, and which, without But
I ate every day and had the honor of sharing the house.

-III-

In
other trifles that conscientiousness of the narrator does not allow
to pass in silence

It included this house, like many other wealthy
landowners in Andalucía, of two houses contiguous communication: the
masters and always called cottage, although is in the center of town.

The house masters inhabitants had no D. Acisclo at one end, and Dona Luz in another Juana with
her old servant, who slept in a room next to his wife.

There was a large dining room, another small room for newspapers and several rooms of respect,
not opened only on great occasions, and where, among other treasures, D. Acisclo, their sons,
daughters, sons and daughters, all glowing oil portraits, more than natural size, and almost
the entire body, an itinerant painter who happened to pass by Villafría, and led an ounce
of gold for each portrait. True, D. Acisclo you entertained and treated like royalty, him at
his desk all the time it took to paint, which was the work of five months and then, when he
departed, he did this a thousand sweets, for example, a pipotillo with double brandy anise,
dried apricots and alfajores and Piñonate. The portraits it like it deserved. Lacked not only
talk. The lace contained in of the ladies were a little confusing at first, but, bowing to complaints
from the ladies aforesaid, the painter managed to ingenious artifice.

Smeared on a piece of tulle white lead, was applied to the picture site, and dry, where the
lace was represented, and it was a fact wonderful, because even the lace holes looked and still
could be counted.

All this was on the main floor, where two fireplaces, French call there, and not lit, but when
the bishop came in mid-winter, and nearly drowns S. SI with the smoke that was put together.
But instead there was a great gentlemen kitchen with fireplace Bell, of much shot, which always
burned during the cold season, plenty of firewood oak and olive-pomace
rich pasta, where it is rarely cooked, and where the lords warmed
very much to his taste.

In this kitchen adorned the walls several cages for partridges, placed on shelves, shotguns and
other weapons, and some heads of deer, wolves, foxes, badgers and martens, killed by D. Acisclo.

On
the ground floor was almost as much room as in the main, and, if the court had with awning, was more.
Lived there during the summer. In all seasons he was there at the office D. Acisclo, where
the cattle farmer and was active with barges, brokers, rabadanes, overseer, foreman and home:
understanding by landlords, not tenants' terror delinquent, as in
Madrid, but those who care and keep those houses or dwellings in each
farm paperback.

On the ground floor in the living room and authority over device, called the block, because it was square,
there was something that gave luster to the house. It should be known that in many villages
Andalusia is blessed multitude of images that are taken in procession on the great festivals,
and particularly at Easter. The number of these images often do not fit well in temples, so many are
held in private houses until one day the year in which they leave in procession. D. Acisclo was in the
barn down one of these images brotherhood whose older brother was, but it was a picture of three
fourth, but the more complicated was known and the most effort and
cost, and it does not really say that she prayed proverbial:

Santirulitos
nice, cheap, neither eat nor drink, nor wear shoes.

Image or representation that eating and drinking, or rather supped, was nothing less than the
dinner.

Christ and the twelve apostles of the package sat at the table, threw
the blessing Christ, San Juan is asleep on the shoulder of his Divine
Master, and the ugly and treacherous Judas, with tangled red hair,
put his hand on the center plate, because it is known not pinch of
education.

Holy Thursday procession left the Supper, and Holy Wednesday evening was exposed on the block to
the veneration of the faithful, who on that occasion had free entry
into the house, which was called and is called the badges still visit,
and just left in place who no visits on the eve of the respective
procession.

And this if you have outsiders.

The table at which Christ and the apostles were sitting, was quite capable, and in so solemn
days, was covered with precious cloths and adorned alemaniscos niceties of a thousand flowers, meats,
sweets and fruits. Although not on the table of what God created, as claimed by the villagers with
excessive price increases, it was undeniable that there were rare and expensive: grape goat heart
as just that miracle catch and had been preserved, carnations and early roses smell in large
cones, bunches of violets and camellias, etc.., etc. The walls of the room where the dinner
was carpeted with crimson damask is, on the damask hung beautiful and ancient cornucopias with
many burning candles, and also in the room was green plants, and canaries in cages, and a huge
black cross, wooden ornaments and finials fine silver, clutching to the wall by sharp spikes.
It was the cross D. Acisclo, when young, shoulder had taken in processions for many years because
it had been and was still Cross brother, though retired, still dressed in Nazareth, to go in the procession
as older brother before the dinner, with a rich purple silk gown that had cost a fortune;
but then did not carry the cross, but a shiny pole, a sign of authority
and command.

His eldest son went ahead with the banner of the brotherhood.

The expense of the party was great, because D. Acisclo expenses all carrying burning wax the paths
that still sails his flagship, and on the night of Holy Thursday, and finished the procession,
dinner was all the brothers, who were many, entertained and fed with bean stew, cornetillas spicy
garlic chicken dogfish, cod with tomatoes or meatballs, sometimes fried seraphim, because,
oddly enough, are called seraphim in that country, anchovies, and delectable desserts and vintage
wine bores. Also paid generous due to the forty or fifty porters who had carried on the shoulders
of the litter and the litter the table, with Christ, Apostles, and
as God created him mammoth undertaking, which not a few were broken-backed
and blisters fierce, despite the pads.

That night threw D. Acisclo still life out the window.

The little people smoked at their expense cuirassiers best that was
in the tobacco and dominion took chocolate with pastries, pies, hornazos,
cakes of various kinds, such as polvorón and oil, wine and donuts
and egg.

On any day, any time all that was shown in D. Acisclo was beautiful and wealthy.

The backyard was broad and paved with marble. In the center wearing a marble basin also, where
clear water falling a hearty, high spout. Around the source were many pots of flowers and fragrant
herbs, and some beds with bogies, which were balls and pyramids,
and climbing roses, jasmine and orange trees that lined the wall and
climbing on top of the balconies on the main floor, weaving a cloak
or mantle of flowers, fruits and vegetables, and embalming the environment,
and with the smell of orange blossoms, and with the slightest scent
jasmine and musk.

In this courtyard, and a larger garden, with garden honors, he had
to back of the house, looked carefully Dona Luz.

So did come flowers and plants, which had never Villafría known and used to acclimatise.

De Dona Luz cared nothing, not laziness, but because he said D. Acisclo persisted to argue that
he was as a guest, and did not want to get into nightgown chew.

Who ruled all, the real director and a housekeeper was Mrs. Petra, age very accomplished fifty years.
She understood in daily expenditures, and had watched the kitchen
the keys to the pantry, pastry, the winery, the four wineries, oil,
spirits and vinegar, and attics or barns, where there were always
wheat, barley, arvejones, yeros, anise and other seeds.

In the immediate orders of Mrs. Petra had four servants, two, zagalonas even hard? Work, tight
meat and muscles of steel, which were called by the Beyond body home, that is, they served to
scrub, mop, whitewash and have it all saltandito of clean, another and more grains, but also
girl, who sewed, mended and ironed clothing, and one that cooked
the most authentic and tasty stews of the earth, and knew make syrup,
clotted, pastries, syrup and juice porridge.

All these female soldiers lived and slept on the main floor of the
cottage where room were also the overseer, his wife and four kids,
but these, so far apart, not seen or understood but when the master
called.

There was finally a boy, who was sleeping next to the barn and took care of it, patios and
pens.

Such was the domestic servitude, as it were.

But it is understood that the hired the mule, landlords, the tenants, the plungers, the mill
and the other people who employed in agricultural work, came and
went and had stayed in the cottage where width was more than enough,
and still, press, paneled ceiling and presses for olives and grapes.

It was, therefore, as we have already noted, that the house owners only lived D. Acisclo Dona
Juana Luz and her maid.

Thomas, the former servant of the Marquis, lived in the manor house with a lad that helped to care
and also care for the beautiful black horse of the lady.

In the house were two tables: one that would sit D. Acisclo and Dona Luz and some invited if he
had, one for the family (in the Andalusian village is still called the family servants), and on
that table sat Mrs. Petra presiding, the two women's body home, seamstress and laundress, cook,
the groom of the stables, Thomas and his assistant and Jane, maiden Miss Dona Luz.

The overseer and his ranch were separate and had a small kitchen where she cooked the Moorish
overseer.

This did not prevent him or any of their children, or all, even the
overseer, but not child but father, were often guests at the family
table, which sat mule and others also when they were in place, and
which Mrs. Petra and Jane assumed the right, not neglecting to exercise
it, to make the invitations that they wanted.

Such was the house he had lived for twelve years Dona Luz, and such
people that was surrounded in May 1860.

-IV-

Close friends Dona
Luz

Luz, the circumstances in which it was and the conditions of
his character, could not less to live as he lived.

Pride is certainly wrong.

How much better and is not Christian humility? In much of selfish pride, while humility is all
devotion and abandonment. Yet how can we deny that a good pride led sometimes causes high virtues
and honest behavior?

Anyway, we should not hide the fact that our heroine was very proud.

This writer has no hobbies or aristocratic predilections. On the contrary, always has persisted
in believing that people are not worth less the more swanky places that the court. Mutatis mutandis,
everything looks the same: the mayor's wife is equal to an empress or queen, the clerk's equivalent
to the Duchess more in vogue in Madrid, and is nice Fulanito he seems more lively, and graceful,
a good horseman, charming, affable and friendly, the most perfect dandy he has known.

But, on balance, this is not democratic spirit discreet, but black and dismal pessimism. Optimistic
and healthy democracy is no doubt in believing that the best education from early childhood, good
example and name of parents and grandparents, the obligation not disgrace or tarnish the good name
and a half living in urban and educated, should be school and effective incentive to be virtuous
and discreet, or alluring or worthy or particularly time. On an equal intellectual light nature
and should therefore be worth much else who has the external requirements such that it does
not possess: equal internal conditions, the daughter of a marquis,
for example, even if it is spurious and should be conducted better
than the daughter of a ragamuffin.

Otherwise understand the democratic spirit, it follows that what we want is equality and not
climbing down: Levelling in ignorance abjection and misery, not leveling and elevation possible
in all media, in all this accumulation of resources made by past generations, so that their
help continue climbing towards good, towards the light and the beauty.

I understand how venerable and all but holy paths even if you lost,
the intention of the demagogue, Democrat and even socialist, which
strives to give all men liberal education, resources and few elements
have so-called aristocratic, if these items are worth, not only to
enjoy, but to be better, but if you only apply for benefit and be
more weak, corrupt and vile, I can not explain the progressive democracy,
but democracy Rousseau, who seeks to roll back humanity to the savage
state.

Either way it is, it appears that I am not advocating this or that
opinion here.

Is not I write a treatise on political philosophy. Do not attempt to present either as Dona Luz
a paragon of excellence, but as she was present.

Luz deeply felt human dignity, but assumed that this clear and distinct sentiment, which had
in it more than other people, not just reliance on a natural gift and free, but a higher education to
the generality, and more careful. This rather than pride, seems modest. She believed he had
an ideal of himself that had been made and as we bring out, thanks no doubt to his own power,
but assisted in circumstances blissful and initials should be to Providence, and that not all
but few are. Be judged, then, as favored by God, and therefore more obligations to fulfill.
For every divine favor, a sacred obligation.

He had talent, he was obliged to cultivate; was beautiful and strong, needed to retain its strength
and beauty, had been named illustrious, and, if not more successful to enlighten, it should not
stain.

Although she was considered equal in nature to other humans, he judged all going in search
of greater height than good and more luminous and serene.

If she does, even if was by a quirk of fate, went ahead and was closer to the summit, his philanthropy
could not extend more than shake hands with those who were able to climb up where she was, and
not those who were so low and so deep in the mud, which Instead of lifting, it would drag it
falling in the mud too.

We have already indicated that the pride of Dona Luz was veiled and
shrouded in the most discreet concealment; and this not only out of
prudence and self-interest, but by the lively sense of charity.

Nothing hurt as much as to humiliate others. If you may be pleased to show off a skill, a good
piece of his mind, a delicacy and elegance of his person, was able to feel the stimulus to
imitate or rise to it, not with a desire to excite sterile painful admiration or envy.

Doña Luz, therefore he had so proudly, had no spark of vanity. Liked all to repay with interest
what he received. No longed to love her more than I could love her. The flirtation was, then,
for a vice Dona Luz ignored and almost incomprehensible.

The decision, the own statement she dictated about any quality or act under him, the flattered and
pleased thousand times more than all the applause of those around her. So I just wanted to
please the pure kind, where there were a naturalness, a modesty and apparent neglect of his
own merit, which charmed and amazed.

Other women are longing to always inspire passions inspire Dona Luz fleeing, and, applying an
early disappointment, the killing in my heart before they were born.

Why be loved if there was to love who loved her? In love as in friendship, wished to Dona Luz twice.
And not being able to love in Villafría, had little by little out of himself to all the boys
the place, and had chosen his close friends among the old.

If it was fresh in his dealings with everyone, as studied using courtesy, without the branded
pride, avoiding intimacy with all but four subjects.

The first was D. Michael, parish priest, Father excellent although very short ranges, whom he
confessed every month, who gave his nest egg for the dole in alms to the needy, and who often
played the tute. The heart and mind Dona Luz was for the poor priest's book of seven seals. In
this darkness, and being also D. Miguel unenthusiastic, I wanted
in moderation Dona Luz, but loved her with all the strength of soul
that he could have for the baby, which was very little.

Doña Luz, Instead, he idolized the priest in some way. He was pleased that transparency, in
that sharpness, in that blessed emptiness of his spirit, and pampered and entertained him as
a child little boy.

By means of a smuggler who came and went with cotton cloth, was brought D. Lisbon Miguel choicest
snuff, and making sure that did not make him wrong, he sent candies, cookies and other goodies,
that the priest was very fond.
Another intimate of more importance, was the doctor D. Anselmo. I
say more importance, he was worth, not because you need him Dona Luz.
The health of Dona Luz was insolent good. Not a headache ever.

D.
Despejadísimo Anselmo was a man, not only skilled and educated in
his profession, but reading varied and unique way with words. Do not
be surprised that such gifts were doctor in one place. O fortune had
not smiled, and his genius was wild and vicious lifted himself opposed.


Presently she heard his footsteps once more, but he did not come as near her as before--in
fact, he stood at some yards' distance when he stopped and spoke--in quite a new manner.

"Betty," his tone was even cynically cool, "I shall stalk you no more. The chase is at an end.
I think I have taken all out of you I intended to. Perhaps it was a bad joke and was carried
too far. I wanted to prove to you that there were circumstances which might be too much even
for a young woman from New York. I have done it. Do you suppose I am such a fool as to bring
myself within reach of the law? I am going away and will send assistance to you from the next
house I pass. I have left some matches and a few broken sticks on the hearth in the cottage.
Be a sensible girl. Limp in there and build yourself a fire as soon as you hear me gallop away.
You must be chilled through. Now I am going."

He tramped across the bit of garden, down the brick path, mounted his horse and put it to a
gallop at once. Clack, clack, clack--clacking fainter and fainter into the distance--and he
was gone.

When she realised that the thing was true, the effect upon her of her sense of relief was that
the growing likelihood of a second swoop into darkness died away, but one curious sob lifted
her chest as she leaned back against the rough growth behind her. As she changed her position
for a better one she felt the jagged pain again and knew that in the tenseness of her terror
she had actually for some time felt next to nothing of her hurt. She had not even been cold,
for the hedge behind and over her and the barricade before had protected her from both wind
and rain. The grass beneath her was not damp for the same reason. The weary thought rose in
her mind that she might even lie down and sleep. But she pulled herself together and told herself
that this was like the temptation of believing in the nightmare. He was gone, and she had a
respite--but was it to be anything more? She did not make any attempt to leave her place of
concealment, remembering the strange things she had learned in watching him, and the strange
terror in which Rosalie lived.

"One never knows what he will do next; I will not stir," she said through her teeth. "No, I
will not stir from here."

And she did not, but sat still, while the pain came back to her body and the anguish to her
heart--and sometimes such heaviness that her head dropped forward upon her knees again, and
she fell into a stupefied half-doze.

From one such doze she awakened with a start, hearing a slight click of the gate. After it,
there were several seconds of dead silence. It was the slightness of the click which was startling--if
it had not been caused by the wind, it had been caused by someone's having cautiously moved
it--and this someone wishing to make a soundless approach had immediately stood still and was
waiting. There was only one person who would do that. By this time, the mist being blown away,
the light of the moon began to make a growing clearness. She lifted her hand and delicately
held aside a few twigs that she might look out.

She had been quite right in deciding not to move. Nigel Anstruthers had come back, and after
his pause turned, and avoiding the brick path, stole over the grass to the cottage door. His
going had merely been an inspiration to trap her, and the wood and matches had been intended
to make a beacon light for him. That was like him, as well. His horse he had left down the road.

But the relief of his absence had been good for her, and she was able to check the shuddering
fit which threatened her for a moment. The next, her ears awoke to a new sound. Something was
stumbling heavily about the patch of garden--some animal. A cropping of grass, a snorting breath,
and more stumbling hoofs, and she knew that Childe Harold had managed to loosen his bridle
and limp out of the shed. The mere sense of his nearness seemed a sort of protection.

He had limped and stumbled to the front part of the garden before Nigel heard him. When he
did hear, he came out of the house in the humour of a man the inflaming of whose mood has been
cumulative; Childe Harold's temper also was not to be trifled with. He threw up his head, swinging
the bridle out of reach; he snorted, and even reared with an ugly lashing of his forefeet.

"Good boy!" whispered Betty. "Do not let him take you--do not!"

If he remained where he was he would attract attention if anyone passed by. "Fight, Childe
Harold, be as vicious as you choose--do not allow yourself to be dragged back."

And fight he did, with an ugliness of temper he had never shown before--with snortings and
tossed head and lashed--out heels, as if he knew he was fighting to gain time and with a purpose.

But in the midst of the struggle Nigel Anstruthers stopped suddenly. He had stumbled again,
and risen raging and stained with damp earth. Now he stood still, panting for breath--as still
as he had stood after the click of the gate. Was he--listening? What was he listening to? Had
she moved in her excitement, and was it possible he had caught the sound? No, he was listening
to something else. Far up the road it echoed, but coming nearer every moment, and very fast.
Another horse--a big one--galloping hard. Whosoever it was would pass this place; it could
only be a man--God grant that he would not go by so quickly that his attention would not be
arrested by a shriek! Cry out she must--and if he did not hear and went galloping on his way
she would have betrayed herself and be lost.

She bit off a groan by biting her lip.

"You who died to-day--now--now!"

Nearer and nearer. No human creature could pass by a thing like this--it would not be possible.
And Childe Harold, backing and fighting, scented the other horse and neighed fiercely and high.
The rider was slackening his pace; he was near the lane. He had turned into it and stopped.
Now for her one frantic cry--but before she could gather power to give it forth, the man who
had stopped had flung himself from his saddle and was inside the garden speaking. A big voice
and a clear one, with a ringing tone of authority.

"What are you doing here? And what is the matter with Miss Vanderpoel's horse?" it called out.

Now there was danger of the swoop into the darkness--great danger--though she clutched at the
hedge that she might feel its thorns and hold herself to the earth.

"YOU!" Nigel Anstruthers cried out. "You!" and flung forth a shout of laughter.

"Where is she?" fiercely. "Lady Anstruthers is terrified. Play well, not only in Korea alcoholic,
but in the St. Vitus dance, which is almost always helpful. Important is to warn The paralysis that
requires the nux vomica, the fact needs to be because a great nervous excitement of the action,
and gangrene in the arsenic must be result of excess inflammation. Here, then, the reason that
can not nux vomica be fully deactivated when the treatment of constipation due to lack rebels
efforts and to the paralysis of the sphincter, when this state is the result of a high irritability
to excess and leads to the sluggishness, inertia.

14. No Asthma .-- The condition is that the least you can do without the nux vomica for treatment.
The drug seems to act on the muscles of respiration concur and also no doubt about pneumogastric, while
arsenic mainly work the latter, on the pulmonary innervation, nerve and convulsive character was
the fact that frequently alternate with these two drugs to cure asthma and essential Most asthmatic
conditions. There are several effective medications for asthma, according to congestive dominating
element, paralytic, inflammatory, nervous, such are the ipecac tartar emetic, the bryony, lobelia,
etc. .....

15. No skin ailments. Chronic irritation of the mucous terns .-- The action of the walnut vomica
on the skin has some sharp, according to it expresses the general state of feverish spasm or seizure,
the erethism blood, gastric cancer, the affection of the liver and nutrition. So there is cold
skin, blue stained the same color, spicy and itching burning in the morning and afternoon,
burning sensations also excoriation, boils by successive eruptions, acne, yellowing or jaundice,
burning sensation at the points excoriated them get swollen and turned on, and giving blood
ulcers, rashes miliary pruritus, or slump quickly. Here, then, that many circumstances that indicate
nux vomica in chronic hepatitis, gastric eruptions, pustular acne, boils that reproduce, etc
.....

It is used also in certain cases of sebaceous secretion in the eyelids, irritation of free edge
of the same and conjunctiva, in persons given to drink in some stomatitis, even with thrush,
and chronic irritation of the lining of the mouth with swelling of the gums and canker sores
frequently, especially if they are very sensitive. Observed in this case some insidious provision
of the stomach or intestines in harmony with this state of the mouth, and burning pains, finally,
that accompany all mucosal irritation nux vomica. It is also effective in anal fissures with
contracture, burning pain, general irritability, in the rectum prolapsus, especially children, in
consequence of the efforts in the expulsion of very tough materials or dysenteric tenesmus.

=
Dose .=-- Nux is indicated for many diseases, it is necessary to
vary the doses of 1 to 10 drops and even more of the dye, until globules
of the thirtieth attenuation, debiéndose use the smallest in the sugetos
more irritable and functional disorders and neuralgic affections and
ESRD.

It also indicates that apart from considerations of age, sex, temperament, way of life, climate,
we have already said to be in harmony with the effects of walnut
vomica, there are others that should be considered in his administration:
nux vomica works best morning, and the effect, if possible, it is
given in the evening, their effects are then softer, particularly
in the dismenorreas ERETES periods in excess, in neuralgic affections,
constipation ..... Administered in the morning in case of this genre
in very irritable, angry and their action often causes aggravation
a multitude of symptoms seen in the morning.

It also avoids the then giving eating in people with stomach cramps, stomach pain, gastric,
neuralgic or venous, and some states congested, because just then develop but the sufferings or
presented. In asthma is administered by the day, and at all times in acute fast, even at the entrance
of pain. We believe it useful, in short, doing, once and for all, the sign also applies to other
drugs, but especially to the bryony, to the camomile, the sulfur ...., that in spite of the weakness
of the dose, it is necessary have the aggravations that can occur if these precautions are
neglected in ornery people live, very irritable, dry fiber and tight.

Aconite, the bryony and arnica are suitable means for calming the exasperated irritability
the nux vomica, and submit a blood character more nervous, or vice-versa, or as which extends to
contractility. Bryony chamomile and irritation that tune nux occurs in the digestive organs,
coffee and alcohol, the brain, the arsenic and the bryony, the respiratory tract, and chamomile
Staphysagria modify the default and irritability, the coca de Levante and arnica, accidents paralyzed.

OPIUM

§
I. - History [14].

This substance is the dried juice of the green heads of the poppy
family somnifera the poppies, Juss .-- In monogínea polyandry, Linn
.-- Opium, in therapeutic work modern, has a chapter of its physiological
effects, but almost only refer to toxins, disruptive, disposers, and
not to the physiological and really special which extend to all appliances
throughout the body by a continuous peaceful purposes, that since
the first impression in the economy rises to the fullness of his action,
chronicity and dyscrasia.

We've listed several times weaker results of these incomplete studies, so we do not insist, allowing
only state that the Opium is one of the drugs less known or more incompletely studied, which
confess every educated man, if you know the strange differences in the views of authors issued
on this product.

Large doses of opium to calm some pain, extinguishes the feeling of
others, and some sometimes relieves insomnia, many studies have materialized
to this, and as pain and insomnia symptoms are common to most diseases,
opium has been used in almost all of them.

Is given in phthisis to relieve cough, in the prodromal period of
fever eruptive, for inducing sleep, and many other acute cases in
which can only be achieved to use the aggravation of discomfort, increased
fever, the erethism and danger.

He has managed successively more or less success, neuralgia, neuro, epilepsy and several other convulsive
affections, in asthma, chorea, delirium tremens, tetanus, dementia, diarrhea, dysentery, uterine
bleeding ..... We should not pass over in silence the unspeakable practice of giving opium
mixed with other drugs in the belief tolerable dose to administer stronger and the enemy of all movement
Espansiva in the eruptive fevers and other diseases listed above.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Opium is among the drugs that more clearly presents its special effects as from the excitement
of the nervous system and blood, driving excitement to the inertia
of the two systems, to passive congestion, to the insensitivity.

In its Acute action, it enhances the sensitivity, and weaker in the chronicle. The blood is
more oxygenated Scythians in the action and acute, and less on chronic and slow the course of this
fluid contributes to enhance their quality vein, a quality that makes it unfit for normal excitation
organs.

Opium is a narcotic, for if elective work on the brain and nerves
of relation, does it for the mediation of the nodal system which is
addressed first, and only apparently to influence the brain.

The effects of this medicine and specialty its action can be summarized in the following symptoms:

Feeling
of strength and vigor, sleeplessness, chills followed by heat, excess irritability of the muscles
that are under the command of the will, pulse full and frequent, sparks before the eyes, ringing in
the ears, lightheadedness, heaviness of head, joy, great flow of ideas, adventuresome, dry
mouth, excitement of sexual appetite, heat and constriction chest, agility of the members.
These symptoms of excitement are proprietary opium of more or less
duration and increases with the dose, so it shows: concerns in Member,
flushed face or color changes quickly, burning heat and itching all
over the body, hard and fast pulse, drowsiness, peace of mind wandering
or delirium, heat dizziness, congestion in the head and strong beats,
altered vision, heaviness in the stomach and abdomen with heartbeat,
constipation, dysuria, excitation of genito-urinary and pollution
with erections, difficulty in breathing, pressure chest.

These symptoms are the following: indifference, delirium, loss of consciousness, sleep comatose,
ruddy face, burning and a puffy, dry skin and increased the urine or loose stools, sometimes
hot sweat and suppression of escreciones, heaviness of the head with a need to close the eyes, darkening
of the light, difficult word and slow, nausea, vomiting, stomach aches, and impotence ecstasy
love, oppression with anxiety or slow and noisy breathing, swelling of the veins. These same symptoms,
if the doses are large, they become more and more narcotics: general
insensitivity, tremor, shaking, bouts of suffocation, swelling of
the whole body blue, comatose sleep with snoring, eyes open and seizure,
flushed face and swollen, blue and swollen lips, pulse slow and intermittent,
loss of consciousness, relaxation of the muscles of the face and body,
convulsive movements, usually cold, tympanitis, involuntary bowel
movements, eyelids and pendulous lips, tongue and paralysis of the
extremities.

A very small dose to continue in use for a long time, expresses symptoms alteration of the sensitivity
and contractility, the lesion of the digestive forces, increasing
the venous system and the alteration of the blood, as shown by the
following: headache, tenesmus, dizziness and pain in the head punctures,
neuralgia and fast living moving from one point to another, pulling
pain in the limbs, spasmodic jerks, heat burning in abdomen, chest,
the chest region, cramping pains in the extremities, gastralgias,
stomach cramps and the matrix, the disclosures of suffocation, constriction
painful chest, agitation, muscle weakness and large relaxation of
the fiber.

By denying Hahnemann opium property of exciting pain, and without doubt proceeded undergoes him
to dose very weak or very strong, because the ease with which we have produced the symptom
pain already mentioned, the comments we made about two opium-saturated, we raise fears that
other experiments have not addressed their research to this point.

The chronic action of opium has noticeable symptoms: emaciation general, sensitivity excess to
the cold, pale skin, chalky face, swelling of the veins, serous infiltration throughout the
body, itching skin, swelling blue fingers and toes, and especially the big toe, distressing dreams,
moral inconsistency, scary character, weakness of the intellectual faculties of imagination
errors, perturbation of the head, excitability nervous, ringing in the ears, teeth hesitant
and swollen gums that bleed easily, salivation, bitter taste, aversion to food, slow and weak
digestion, gastralgia, easy to vomiting, flatulence, constipation,
persistent, low, dark urine, Pollutions without erection, dry cough
hits.

Opium abusers are weak, their nutritional and excretory movements are slow, ganglionic nerves apparently
no encouragement to the organs of nutrition and fluids, and not actively influence the relationship
nerves. But that aside from this inertia will observe some of the brain and nervous irritability
of the medulla oblongata, you can not deduce that opium exerts an action opposite in the two
lives, organizational and relationship, as want some doctors. This opinion does not support
any founded reason: for diversity phenomena that we indicated and correspond to the two lives may well
depend that the influence of the will in the organs subjected to the same not in harmony with
the force that animates them, and in any case, can explanations for automatic contractions
and the contractility asthenic injury, cerebro-spinal innervation is so weak as the nodal innervation.
Irritability and moral fiber in opium, are purely asthenic and the
same nature as the chamomile.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = Nervous affections .-- fully sanctioned clinical outcomes data on the action of opium have
collected and esponse, and therefore sufficient to limit ourselves to the study of the facts, all theories
abstraction very scholarly at times, but much less simple processes of nature.

Opium is the drug most suitable for combat as sharp and explosive attack activity life produced
by the indignation, but the passive indignation, that is, when the body suffer the horror without
the moral react, not the indignation aroused anger affective or feeling as required by aconite.
Opium sobreescita fiber to plunge in inertia and insensitivity, the
indignation produce the same effects, sometimes dominate the last
to the point of being the only one that can be seen, as when terror
seems paralyzed, which produces involuntary stool or urine, which
tends to abortion that suppresses the lochia, the rules.

Here there is no original effect, or secondary, but as just a simple and progressive effect
of the tension to inertia by the same action. By final fatigue that characterizes its action,
corresponds exactly to opium congestion produced by the concentration of fright or fear in the various
organs, impeding Thus the development of a febrile reaction often terrible, and where necessary
use, without forgetting the aconite or arnica for the same.

Nocturnal epilepsy, insomnia, migraine, people with senses obtuse plethoric and suffering from
discomfort, burning in the visceral cavities are solely those of opium, and the delirium tremens
of the drunks in the second period, assisted with datura and after
arnica or coffee.

Lead colic is at its best cure opium, the platinum is often useful after him.

We do not want to omit the results indicate opium eSCelente spasms children with difficult breathing
and blood stasis in the capillaries, or when they have just by fits, preceded by screaming,
and chamomile, belladonna and have not been ignacia sufficient. Should be resorted to opium
in certain Neuroses with trembling of the extremities, insomnia, agitation, anxiety in the limbs, constipation,
and in mania or mental alienation characterized by frequent change of heat in the face, by the
alternation of prostration and estilacion, with venous injection of the eyes many times, convulsive
movements, constipation.

In sugetos weakened by long and frequent excite brain with marasmus, dry skin and earthy or yellow,
or null perverted appetite, gastrointestinal weakness, swelling of
the veins lack of secretion, be used with good results Opium neuralgias
of sensory apparatus, whether purely nervous or who have congestive
character, or else Cramp, lancinating, fixed, or that have irregular
course, constant, intermittent.

Opium also combat neuralgia plethoric persons, and the old in that
receptivity medicinal influence is weakened and diminished brain.

Opium in short, is indicated for neuralgia that develop on a background with excitement erethism
of irritability and impressions of the senses, with the condition that they be given to the more
attenuated and small doses. If the ancient medical practice does not confirm this data, and
if practical modern opium despise this property is because the massive
dosage is almost the same in all cases, and why not vary the dose.

This medicine is generally suitable to raise awareness in people refractory to drug action, even
in acute disease, although these only correspond to insensitivity due to the state of fullness
or of cerebral congestion. Mercury has, such as opium and sulfur, the privilege of exciting vitality,
but work better in opium insensitivity, and the other in the inertia, and three in the two states
combined.

Among the cases that demand more precisely the opium is replete asthma or by congestion pulmonary,
and especially chronic constipation without urgency and effort expelled, even children and
pregnant women. In stubborn cases it is necessary to ensure their use and sometimes help their
action with various doses of nux vomica intercurrent, lead, Spanish fly. There are few conditions,
which, as in this constipation is necessary to use more healing means
and with more perseverance, especially when abused enemas and warm
baths.

Not indicate the effects of opium in some cases of strangulated hernia and volvulus, because this
drug is quite inferior to the nux vomica, belladonna to about everything, and even lead, but
we will mention its use in colic which is important essential and
indicated their effectiveness in certain liabilities flows by inertia
and lack of innervation node, such as certain watery diarrhea, recent
or old, salivation, to the mercurial the ptyalism of old, the excess
of urine produced little watery, vaginal discharge of nature and linked
to any special principle of chronic disease.

= B = blood system disorders .-- We have already indicated that the fatigue of the nerve itself
Opium is not without some irritability of fiber, or better yet, it is not without some alteration
of contractility. Fatigue is the trend and the background of all effects Opium is the final result
and direct: it is essential to their action, and this difference that of nux vomica, which is
indirect.

Behold the differential characters of fatigue Opium: clonic spasms, automatic, general prostration,
insensibility, the venous stasis which are not limited to the capillary system, the congestion
extends to the great vessels and to the heart, which paralyzes movement.

However, for the opium all bluish venous stagnation, with no increase heat, and limited to a
given part, albeit chronic, this is the only condition in which the medication is adapted to
the chronic form, these are the dark red and swelling chilblains no itching or pain, gangrene
senile certain period of passive congestion, conditions where the opium assisted rye ergot is undeniably
effective.

But where opium is more frequently and more directly stated, is in passive congestion, venous, no
burning sensation, and developed in any organ by emotion, or other
prompt indignation, sad and unnerving, especially if there spasms
and in postpartum women and children, and convulsive movements with
stagnation capillaries in skin, cold and blue skin, eyes, dilated
pupils, congestion Brain relaxation of forces.

Opium plays Soporous coma, convulsive shock if or jerky movements, agility of the members
with partial and momentary rigidity, bluish or blackish swelling of the face, pallor of the
extremities, lips pendulous small or intermittent pulse, sighing respiration.

Is contraindicated cataleptic state with constricted pupils, without
much change in calorification and coloration of the skin, but is indicated
in the suffocation of newborn with cyanosis, and asphyxia by submersion
with blood stasis in the periphery or apoplexy capillary in the cerebral
apoplexy with numbness and other symptoms described above, particularly
if the congestion is due to the crippling emotion of a great indignation,
or to a custom of the congestion that has to prostration and to the
passive congestion characteristic of this drug.

= C = Conditions febrile fevers whose Prodrom .-- There are remarkable for the cold, the sugilaciones,
The blues of the fingers, and muscle tremors or spasms, and drowsiness, for the detention and prostration
which precedes the development of heat and reaction: these fevers, intermittent or continuous, requiring
the use of opium in small doses decided by the reaction, regulates
and dissipates the state of passive congestion of nerve centers.

Do not hesitate in showing that opium thus transformed from the start and filled with nervous fever
Hazard simple fevers and no gravity, is one of the most satisfying wins the physician, although
the circumstances do not allow those who are uninitiated to appreciate his art their actions and
their results.

Delirium tremor of the muscles, relaxation of the forces, eyes fixed on the mouth typhoid and
nervous putrid opium yields to fatigue dissipates nervous at the
same stasis blood to the brain.

Comatose accesses of fevers are harmful in this case, when starting with the aberration of the
senses, the agitation, the wandering of the imagination or contempt to the more unusual items,
the comma is possession of sugeto little by little, there complete immobility, direct heat,
profuse sweating and hot, the heat wears off, the sweat is cold and death inevitably occurs
in the midst of a full insensibidad.
 He threw me into a hedge and bolted. I'm badly enough bruised
to want to reach a town and see a doctor. Can you give me a lift?"

"That I will, sir, ready enough," making room on the seat beside him. "You be bruised bad,
sir," he said sympathetically, as his passenger climbed to his place, with a twisted face and
uttering blasphemies under his breath.

"Damned badly," he answered. "No bones broken, however."

"That cut on your cheek and neck'll need plasterin', sir."

"That's a scratch. Thorn bush," curtly.

Sympathy was plainly not welcome. In fact Binns was soon of the opinion that here was an ugly
customer, gentleman or no gentleman. A jolting cart was, however, not the best place for a
man who seemed sore from head to foot, and done for out and out. He sat and ground his teeth,
as he clung to the rough seat in the attempt to steady himself. He became more and more "gashly,"
and a certain awful light in his eyes alarmed the carter by leaping up at every jolt. Binns
was glad when he left him at Medham Arms, and felt he had earned the half-sovereign handed to him.

Four days Anstruthers lay in bed in a room at the Inn. No one saw him but the man who brought
him food. He did not send for a doctor, because he did not wish to see one. He sent for such
remedies as were needed by a man who had been bruised by a fall from his horse. He made no
remark which could be considered explanatory, after he had said irritably that a man was a
fool to go loitering along on a nervous brute who needed watching. Whatsoever happened was
his own damned fault.

Through hours of day and night he lay staring at the whitewashed beams or the blue roses on
the wall paper. They were long hours, and filled with things not pleasant enough to dwell on
in detail. Physical misery which made a man writhe at times was not the worst part of them.
There were a thousand things less endurable. More than once he foamed at the mouth, and recognised
that he gibbered like a madman.

There was but one memory which saved him from feeling that this was the very end of things.
That was the memory of Broadmorlands. While a man had a weapon left, even though it could not
save him, he might pay up with it--get almost even. The whole Vanderpoel lot could be plunged
neck deep in a morass which would leave mud enough sticking to them, even if their money helped
them to prevent its entirely closing over their heads. He could attend to that, and, after
he had set it well going, he could get out. There were India, South Africa, Australia--a dozen
places that would do. And then he would remember Betty Vanderpoel, and curse horribly under
the bed clothes. It was the memory of Betty which outdid all others in its power to torment.

On the morning of the fifth day the Duke of Broadmorlands received a note, which he read with
somewhat annoyed curiosity. A certain Sir Nigel Anstruthers, whom it appeared he ought to be
able to recall, was in the neighbourhood, and wished to see him on a parochial matter of interest.
"Parochial matter" was vague, and so was the Duke's recollection of the man who addressed him.
If his memory served him rightly, he had met him in a country house in Somersetshire, and had
heard that he was the acquaintance of the disreputable eldest son. What could a person of that
sort have to say of parochial matters? The Duke considered, and then, in obedience to a rigorous
conscience, decided that one ought, perhaps, to give him half an hour.

There was that in the intruder's aspect, when he arrived in the afternoon, which produced somewhat
the effect of shock. In the first place, a man in his unconcealable physical condition had
no right to be out of his bed. Though he plainly refused to admit the fact, his manner of bearing
himself erect, and even with a certain touch of cool swagger, was, it was evident, achieved
only by determined effort. He looked like a man who had not yet recovered from some evil fever.
Since the meeting in Somersetshire he had aged more than the year warranted. Despite his obstinate
fight with himself it was obvious that he was horribly shaky. A disagreeable scratch or cut,
running from cheek to neck, did not improve his personal appearance.

He pleased his host no more than he had pleased him at their first encounter; he, in fact,
repelled him strongly, by suggesting a degree of abnormality of mood which was smoothed over
by an attempt at entire normality of manner. The Duke did not present an approachable front
as, after Anstruthers had taken a chair, he sat and examined him with bright blue old eyes
set deep on either side of a dominant nose and framed over by white eyebrows. No, Nigel Anstruthers
summed him up, it would not be easy to open the matter with the old fool. He held himself magnificently
aloof, with that lack of modernity in his sense of place which, even at this late day, sometimes
expressed itself here and there in the manner of the feudal survival.

"I am afraid you have been ill," with rigid civility.

"A man feels rather an outsider in confessing he has let his horse throw him into a hedge.
It was my own fault entirely. I allowed myself to forget that I was riding a dangerously nervous
brute. I was thinking of a painful and absorbing subject. I was badly bruised and scratched,
but that was all."

"What did your doctor say?"

"That I was in luck not to have broken my neck."

"You had better have a glass of wine," touching a bell. "You do not look equal to any exertion."

In gathering himself together, Sir Nigel felt he was forced to use enormous effort. It had
cost him a gruesome physical struggle to endure the drive over to Broadmorlands, though it
was only a few miles from Medham. There had been something unnatural in the exertion necessary
to sit upright and keep his mind decently clear. That was the worst of it. The fever and raging
hours of the past days and nights had so shaken him that he had become exhausted, and his brain
was not alert. He was not thinking rapidly, and several times he had lost sight of a point
it was important to remember. He grew hot and cold and knew his hands and voice shook, as he
answered. But, perhaps--he felt desperately--signs of emotion were not bad.

"I am not quite equal to exertion," he began slowly. "But a man cannot lie on his bed while
some things are undone--a MAN cannot."

As the old Duke sat upright, the blue eyes under his bent brows were startled, as well as curious.
Was the man going out of his mind about something? He looked rather like it, with the dampness
starting out on his haggard face, and the ugly look suddenly stamped there. The fact was that
the insensate fury which had possessed and torn Anstruthers as he had writhed in his inn bedroom
had sprung upon him again in full force, and his weakness could not control it, though it would
have been wiser to hold it in check. He also felt frightfully ill, which filled him with despair,
and, through this fact, he lost sight of the effect he produced, as he stood up, shaking all over.

"I come to you because you are the one man who can most easily understand the thing I have
been concealing for a good many years."

The Duke was irritated. Confound the objectionable idiot, what did he mean by taking that intimate
tone with a man who was not prepared to concern himself in his affairs?

"Excuse me," he said, holding up an authoritative hand, "are you going to make a confession?
I don't like such things. I prefer to be excused. Personal confidences are not parochial matters."

"This one is." And Sir Nigel was sickeningly conscious that he was putting the statement rashly,
while at the same time all better words escaped him. "It is as much a parochial matter," losing
all hold on his wits and stammering, "as was--as was--the affair of--your wife."

It was the Duke who stood up now, scarlet with anger. He sprang from his chair as if he had
been a young man in whom some insult had struck blazing fire.

"You--you dare!" he shouted. "You insolent blackguard! You force your way in here and dare--dare----!"
And he clenched his fist, wildly shaking it.

Nigel Anstruthers, staggering on his uncertain feet, would have shouted also, but could not,
though he tried, and he heard his own voice come forth brokenly.

"Yes, I dare! I--your--my own--my----!"

Swaying and tottering, he swung round to the chair he had left, and fell into it, even while
the old Duke, who stood raging before him, started back in outraged amazement. What was the
fellow doing? Was he making faces at him? The drawn malignant mouth and muscles suggested it.
Was he a lunatic, indeed? But the sense of disgusted outrage changed all at once to horror,
as, with a countenance still more hideously livid and twisted, his visitor slid helplessly
from his seat and lay a huddling heap of clothes on the floor.

CHAPTER L

THE PRIMEVAL THING

When Mr. Vanderpoel landed in England his wife was with him. This quiet-faced woman, who was
known to be on her way to join her daughter in England, was much discussed, envied, and glanced
at, when she promenaded the deck with her husband, or sat in her chair softly wrapped in wonderful
furs. 

The weapons of war canoe is a bronze Cañoncillo a rod or something else long, which promptly fired
several shots. And for this they bear in their drawers well conditioned cartridges, made of
canvas instead camellote because in this way prevent is some fire in the canyon, and say they are
not so hot, although shoot then with that many shots Cañoncillo. The alacrity with which soar,
due partly to have everything ready, and be able to easily handle the gun for being so short,
and partly because those who exercised four well concur in charge: one with the cartridge, other
with the heel and attacked, one with a fuse that sticks in the stove filled with gunpowder not
stopping at prime, and the other end with boot-fire.

Unless ensuing events compelled further revelations, the rest of it should be kept from her.
As further protection, her husband had frankly asked her to content herself with a degree of
limited information.

"I have meant all our lives, Annie, to keep from you the unpleasant things a woman need not
be troubled with," he had said. "I promised myself I would when you were a girl. I knew you
would face things, if I needed your help, but you were a gentle little soul, like Rosy, and
I never intended that you should bear what was useless. 

With a strong reaction of his pride, Fernando came out of this discouragement. Had to be man and
accept the events, without exaggerating its importance. A simple adventure trip, which would
be ignored, Maud would ensure that what happened did not come out of the mystery. Had borrowed
good service - Ojeda laughed bitterly at the thought of it - had been happy few hours and then
they parted as strangers, no memory and without melancholia: the same as if they had met the late
afternoon on a boulevard in Paris to spend half an hour together in a hotel and you never get before.

The
detachment of it was undoubtedly due to a late remorse that had come
with ad nauseam ... Regret, no: simple prudence desire to remain isolated
in the days missing to reach the next port.

Her husband would go to the ship, and she wanted out to meet without fear of malicious smiles
of the passengers. He had been chosen for the relief in times of confusion and haste ... And
what it gave rights? The same could have been the winner Mr. Lowe or Maltrana Isidro. Ojeda,
meanwhile, had also one great love, and it suited him just as Maud forget ... Something hurt her
pride of man be treated like that, but it was the pain of surgery that removes the bad ... A
live!

Rose from the bench, approaching the windows of the lounges.

On the railings of a gallery communicating the music room to the dining room had gathered some women,
watching couples who danced below. They were ladies who would not dress for the party; maidservants
of the passengers rich, single-board maids took advantage of Butler's absence to take a look.

Ojeda
was detached from this group and through the winter garden, going out to the deck, a woman dressed
in dark, easily. "Ah, Mrs. Eichelberger !...»

Fernando held a meeting with Mina, as if it will bring happiness. Clasped his two hands the right
hand held out to him the German, and she, with some excitement for the effusive words, turned
his eyes to all sides, wondering to see him alone, believing it would appear suddenly the slim silhouette
and the American cigarette.

He stammered, as if realizing his embarrassment felt some shame. Gave apologies for they look simple,
when all the women of the ship that night had taken its best costumes. She had to dance, and
neither liked to remain alone in the room while her husband played in the den. Out of curiosity
and boredom, to sleep after Karl, He had looked at this gallery to see the dance. He lived so isolated!
... And with a contraction of his hand, hidden between Fernando,
thanks for the goodness of this to deal with it.

Then, his face brightening with a pale smile intended to be malicious. Was astonished only see
him again.

He had almost decided to give up their friendship. But Ferdinand interrupted:

- It's over: I swear ... Finished for ever! I have no other friend on the ship you.

And he said heartily, glad to be next to mine, pleased with the tenderness she watched him.

Excellent mate!

... Fernando, who believed it necessary to deal with a woman, lamented had not been next to
Mina from the start of their friendship. This did not bother him making an apology for her husband
was sweet and seemed to admire. Quite the opposite of the other that even in times of greatest
outpouring kept the packaging of a haughty lady descending to speak with his servant.

In addition, Teri thought in his determination not to debase the nobility of memories with another
"crime", such as finding qualified with his recent adventure vehement.
With Mine does not face any danger: the poor was disappointed. The
failure of his existence the escape of any complication was passionate,
preferring a vegetative life and humble. In addition, looked sick
... Was the desired partner for the runs of the sea: a female friend
all rest, and the separation is say goodbye! taking each melancholy
remembrance something selfless and pure. Father!" she bent and kissed the breast of his coat.

He knew who the big young man was before she turned to present him.

"This is Lord Mount Dunstan, father," she said. "Since Nigel was brought home, he has been
very good to us."

Reuben S. Vanderpoel looked well into the man's eyes, as he shook hands with him warmly, and
this was what he said to himself:

"Yes, she's safe. This is quite safe. It is to be trusted with the whole thing."

Not many days after her husband's arrival at Stornham Court, Mrs. Vanderpoel travelled down
from London, and, during her journey, scarcely saw the wintry hedges and bare trees, because,
as she sat in her cushioned corner of the railway carriage, she was inwardly offering up gentle,
pathetically ardent prayers of gratitude. She was the woman who prays, and the many sad petitions
of the past years were being answered at last. She was being allowed to go to Rosy--whatsoever
happened, she could never be really parted from her girl again. She asked pardon many times
because she had not been able to be really sorry when she had heard of her son-in-law's desperate
condition. She could feel pity for him in his awful case, she told herself, but she could not
wish for the thing which perhaps she ought to wish for. She had confided this to her husband
with innocent, penitent tears, and he had stroked her cheek, which had always been his comforting
way since they had been young things together.

"My dear," he said, "if a tiger with hydrophobia were loose among a lot of decent people--or
indecent ones, for the matter of that--you would not feel it your duty to be very sorry if,
in springing on a group of them, he impaled himself on an iron fence. Don't reproach yourself
too much." Money!
What was hard to win and how necessary it was for life! ... And the "beautiful hatbox" Isidro slyly as
he called, squinting talking about the sacrifices imposed the business, how sad he was leaving his
small apartment in the Avenue des Ternes, where everything was in order and ready for the necessities
of life, with the care of a woman who knows how to value to the small things to put in place.
Child spoke tenderly Chiffon, cat obese and shiny, and two canaries that had been entrusted to
the caretaker. Other times remembered sadly the "good friend" who would wander down the boulevard
waiting for his return, a young truly chic, though poor, with whom relations had for some
years. And friends! And the theaters! And you had to leave everything ... business! "Life is
sad decidedly sad. "

When Isidro, who could not approach a female without initiating an attempt desirable possession, he
considered it his duty to show love for Marcela, it welcomed his words with some severity ... A
man who went to the New World seeking fortune in baubles think you could love take the necessary
time for business! Life is serious, and youth must take advantage to ensure a future. Then, when it
backed the savings, one can afford something crazy ... Did not she also suffered because of
the business, having to make your trip to America where there's friends, wrote to him that
the harvest was good and the money would circulate in abundance? ... In all ports filled postcards
with intense love phrases learned in comedies. I could not read then a few yellow pages of
that volume three francs fifty, then escaped from his arm down or was forgotten on the couch.
I thought about the "good friend", the chic man without resources, leaving for some time. It had
been portrayed numerous times by a waiter on board that exploited the snapshot, and these sheets
of paper would go the way of Paris in the first scale that would make the ship, shown standing
and watching the sea with melancholy, or lying on the couch with the face resting in one hand
and eyes 'dream', crocheting, Read more ... but always thinking about him.

- I have my beguin - kept her in their language polyglot -.

But be serious, Right? and think about the money for the old days. If I were one to ignore
all that say they love! Clubs, hey, believe me ... Furthermore, you are poor, and I do not
understand a poor man, has no significance for me I do not know what could be it. I know many
not have a sous and are friendly, but treat them as comrades all. Gaston my friend, went bankrupt,
and even now in the mash, will have money when they die their aunts ... Do not look for Cabotin
love me not stir niente. I'm too old to believe that. To me the pigolita! ...

And for their unbelief aShow love Jobbers deaf to all the gestures,
words and oaths of parishioners, the phrase repeated with delight
Creole final obliged every speech: "To me the piolita!".

Maltrana was not the only one who had approached wanting to interfere
with diabolical proposals Argonaut your peace of thoughtful and prudent,
that placid digestion monastic quietism and long naps, it was for
her greatest charm of ocean travel.

Her eyes clear blue, her blonde hair ashen, her white flesh, juicy and light shades yellow like
the fresh flesh of a melon, seemed recovered with new charms well as the days passed.


"There is a great primeval thing which sometimes--not often, only sometimes--occurs to two
people," he went on. "When it leaps into being, it is well if it is not thwarted, or done to
death. It has happened to my girl and Mount Dunstan. If they had been two young tinkers by
the roadside, they would have come together, and defied their beggary. As it is, I recognise,
as I sit here, that the outcome of what is to be may reach far, and open up broad new ways."

"Yes," said the vicar. "She will live here and fill a strong man's life with wonderful human
happiness--her splendid children will be born here, and among them will be those who lead the
van and make history."

. . . . .

For some time Nigel Anstruthers lay in his room at Stornham Court, surrounded by all of aid
and luxury that wealth and exalted medical science could gather about him. Sometimes he lay
a livid unconscious mask, sometimes his nurses and doctors knew that in his hollow eyes there
was the light of a raging half reason, and they saw that he struggled to utter coherent sounds
which they might comprehend. This he never accomplished, and one day, in the midst of such
an effort, he was stricken dumb again, and soon afterwards sank into stillness and died. 

Isidro At this time spent with them for the fourth or fifth time, looking, coughing, making efforts
so that Ojeda would notice him and give him reason to intervene in the conversation. Nelida
called.

- Come, Maltrana.
