Around the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, revealed by the boundless energy and daring skill
of the Phoenicians, there were colonies along the coasts of Africa and Europe, though they
were not yet called by their names. They have discovered and explored, but they have kept their
information to themselves, and they have specially refused to divulge their voyages to the Greeks.

A story is told at a later date than this of a Phoenician shipmaster who was bound for the
Tin Islands, when he suddenly discovered that he was being followed by a strange ship evidently
bent on finding out where these unknown islands lay. The Phoenician purposely ran his ship
on to a shoal in order to keep the secret of the discovery. When he returned home his conduct
was upheld by the State!

But though the Phoenicians have left us no record of their travels and voyages, they had been
the carriers of knowledge, and it was from them that the Greeks learnt of "the extreme regions
of the world" and of the dim "far west." Indeed, it is highly probable that from the Phoenicians
they got material for their famous legend of the Argonauts and their adventures in the Black
Sea. Though the story is but legendary, and it has been added to with the growing knowledge
of the world, yet it gives an idea of the perils that beset the sailors of those remote ages
and of their limitations.

And again we must remind ourselves that both the Phoenicians and early Greeks had, like the
Egyptians and Babylonians, childish ideas as to the form of the earth. To them it was a circular
plane, encircled by the ocean, which they believed to be a broad, deep-running river flowing
round and round the world. Into this ocean stream ran all the rivers and seas known to them.
Over the earth was raised a solid firmament of bronze in which the stars were set, and this
was supported on tall pillars "which kept the heaven and the earth asunder."

The whole delightful story of the Argonauts can be read in Kingsley's "Heroes." It is the story
of brave men who sailed in the ship Argo, named after the great shipbuilder Argos, to bring
back the Golden Fleece from Colchis in the Black Sea. They chose a captain, and the choice
fell on Jason, "because he was the wisest of them all"; and they rowed on "over the long swell
of the sea, past Olympus, past the wooded bays of Athos and the sacred isle; and they came
past Lemnos to the Hellespont, and so on into the Propontis, which we call Marmora now." So
they came to the Bosphorus, the "land then as now of bitter blasts, the land of cold and misery,"
and a great battle of the winds took place.

Then the Argonauts came out into the open sea--the Black Sea.

How they reached home no man knows. Some say they sailed up the Danube River and so came to
the Adriatic, dragging their ship over the snowclad Alps. Others say they sailed south to the
Red Sea and dragged their ship over the burning desert of North Africa. More than once they
gave themselves up for lost, "heartbroken with toil and hunger," until the brave helmsman cried
to them, "Raise up the mast and set the sail and face what comes like men."

After days and weeks on the "wide wild western sea" they sailed by the coast of Spain and came
to Sicily, the "three-cornered island," and after numerous adventures they reached home once
more. No strength had they left to haul the ship up the beach. Old and charming as is the story
of the Argonauts, it is made up of travellers' tales, probably told to the Greeks by the Phoenicians
of their adventures on unknown seas.

The wanderings of Ulysses by the old Greek poet Homer shows us that, though they seldom ventured
beyond the Mediterranean Sea, yet the Greeks were dimly conscious of an outer world beyond
the recognised limits. They still dreamt that the earth was flat, and that the ocean stream
flowed for ever round and round it. There were no maps or charts to guide the intrepid mariners
who embarked on unknown waters.

The siege of Troy, famous in legend, was over, and the heroes were anxious to make their way
home. Ulysses was one of the heroes, and he sailed forth from Asia Minor into the AEgean Sea.
But contrary winds drove him as far south as Cape Malea.

"Now the gatherer of the clouds," he says, in telling his story, "aroused the North Wind against
our ships with a terrible tempest, and covered land and sea alike with clouds, and down sped
night from heaven. Thus the ships were driven headlong, and their sails were torn to shreds
by the might of the wind. So we lowered the sails into the hold in fear of death, and rowed
the ships landward apace."

Throughout all ages Cape Malea has been renowned for sudden and violent storms, dreaded by
early mariners as well as those of later times.

"Thence for nine whole days was I borne by ruinous winds over the teeming deep; but on the
tenth day we set foot on the land of the lotus-eaters who eat a flowery food."

Now ten days' sail to the south would have brought Ulysses to the coast of North Africa, and
here we imagine the lotus-eaters dwelt. But their stay was short. For as soon as the mariners
tasted the "honey-sweet fruit of the lotus" they forgot their homes, forgot their own land,
and only wanted to stay with the "mild-eyed melancholy lotus-eaters."

   "They sat them down upon the yellow sand,
    Between the sun and moon upon the shore;
    And sweet it was to dream of Fatherland,
    Of child, and wife, and slave; but evermore
    Most weary seem'd the sea, weary the oar,
    Weary the wandering fields of barren foam.
    Then someone said: 'We will return no more';
    And all at once they sang, 'Our island home
    Is far beyond the wave; we will no longer roam.'"

"Therefore," said Ulysses, "I led them back to the ships, weeping and sore against their will,
and dragged them beneath the benches. Soon they embarked and, sitting orderly, they smote the
grey sea water with their oars. Thence we sailed onward, stricken at heart. And we came to
the land of the Cyclops."

No one knows exactly where the land of the Cyclops is. Some think it may be Sicily and the
slopes of Mount Etna facing the sea.

The famous rock of Scylla and whirlpool of Charybdis, known to the ancients as two sea-monsters,
near the Straits of Messina, next claimed his attention. Let us see how Ulysses passed them.

"We began to sail up the narrow strait," he says, lamenting. "For on the one side lay Scylla
and on the other mighty Charybdis sucking down the salt sea water. Like a cauldron on a great
fire she would seethe up through all her troubled deeps, and overhead the spray fell on the
top of either cliff--the rock around roared horribly, and pale fear gat hold on my men. Toward
her, then, we looked, fearing destruction; but Scylla meanwhile caught from out my hollow ships
six of my company. They cried aloud in their agony, and there she devoured them shrieking at
her gates, they stretching forth their hands to me in their death struggles. And the most pitiful
thing was this, that mine eyes have seen of all my travail in searching out the paths of the sea."

Some have thought that the terrifying stories of Scylla, Charybdis, and the Cyclops were stories
invented by the Phoenicians to frighten travellers of other nations away from the sea that
they wished to keep for themselves for purposes of trade.

It would take too long to tell of the great storm that destroyed the ships and drowned the
men, leaving Ulysses to make a raft on which he drifted about for nine days, blown back to
Scylla and Charybdis and from thence to the island of Ogygia, "in the centre of the sea." Finally
he reached his home in Ithaca so changed, so aged and weather-worn, that only his dog Argus
recognised him.

This, very briefly, is Homer's world-picture of a bygone age, when those who were seized with
a thirst for travel sailed about the Mediterranean in their primitive ships, landing on unnamed
coasts, cruising about unknown islands, meeting strange people, encountering strange adventures.

It all reads like an old fairy tale to us to-day, for we have our maps and charts and know
the whereabouts of every country and island about the tideless Mediterranean.

CHAPTER III

IS THE WORLD FLAT?

Still, although the men of ancient time were learning fast about the land and sea, they were
woefully ignorant. Hesiod, a Greek poet, who lived seven hundred and fifty years before the
Christian era, declared that the world was flat, and the ocean stream or the "perfect river,"
as he called it, flowed round and round, encompassing all things.

Still, there was something beyond the water--something dim, mysterious, unknowable. It might
be the "Islands of the Blest"; it might be the "sacred isle." One thing he asserted firmly:
"Atlas upholds the broad Heaven ... standing on earth's verge with head and unwearied hands,"
while the clear-voiced Hesperides guarded their beautiful golden apples "beyond the waters
of Ocean."

   "Hesperus and his daughters three
    That sung about the golden tree."

But who thinks now of the weary Titan doomed for ever to support the ancient world on his head
and hands, when the atlas of to-day is brought forth for a lesson in geography?

About this time comes a story--it may be fact or it may be fiction--that the Phoenicians had
sailed right round Africa. The voyage was arranged by Neco, an enterprising Egyptian king,
who built his ships in the Red Sea in the year 613 B.C. The story is told by Herodotus, the
Greek traveller, many years afterwards.

"Libya," he says, "is known to be washed on all sides by the sea, except where it is attached
to Asia. This discovery was first made by Neco, the Egyptian king, who sent a number of ships
manned by Phoenicians with orders to make for the Pillars of Hercules (now known as the Straits
of Gibraltar), and return to Egypt through them and by the Mediterranean Sea. The Phoenicians
took their departure from Egypt by way of the Erythraean Sea, and so sailed into the Southern
Ocean. When autumn came (it is supposed they left the Red Sea in August) they went ashore,
wherever that might happen to be, and, having sown a tract of land with corn, waited until
the grain was fit to cut. Having reaped it, they set sail, and thus it came to pass that two
whole years went by, and it was not till the third year that they doubled the Pillars of Hercules
and made good their voyage home. On their return they declared (I, for my part, says Herodotus,
do not believe them, but perhaps others may) that in sailing round Libya they had the sun upon
their right hand. In this way was the extent of Libya first discovered."

To modern students, who have learnt more of Phoenician enterprise, the story does not seem
so incredible as it did to Herodotus; and a modern poet, Edwin Arnold, has dreamed into verse
a delightful account of what this voyage may have been like.

Ithobal of Tyre, Chief Captain of the seas, standing before Neco, Pharaoh and King, Ruler of
Nile and its lands, relates the story of his two years' voyage, of the strange things he saw,
of the hardships he endured, of the triumphant end. He tells how, with the help of mechanics
from Tarshish, Tyre, and Sidon, he built three goodly ships, "Ocean's children," in a "windless
creek" on the Red Sea, how he loaded them with cloth and beads, "the wares wild people love,"
food-flour for the ship, cakes, honey, oil, pulse, meal, dried fish and rice, and salted goods.
Then the start was made down the Red Sea, until at last "the great ocean opened" east and south
to the unknown world and into the great nameless sea, by the coast of that "Large Land whence
none hath come" they sailed.

Ithobal had undertaken no light task; contrary winds, mutiny on board, want of fresh water,
all the hardships that confront the mariner who pilots his crews in search of the unknown.
Strange tribes met them on the coast and asked them whither they went.

                "We go as far as the sun goes
    As far as the sea rolls, as far as the stars
    Shine still in sky. To find for mighty Pharaoh what his world
    Holds hidden."

South and ever south they sailed, "day after day and night succeeding night, close clinging
to the shore." New stars appeared, lower and lower sank the sun, moons rose and waned, and
still the coast stretched southwards till they reached a "Cape of Storms" and found the coast
was turning north. And now occurred that strange phenomenon mentioned by Herodotus, that while
sailing westwards the sun was on their right hand. "No man had seen that thing in Syria or
in Egypt."

A year and a half had now passed away since they left home, but onward to the north they now
made their way, past the mouth of the golden waters (Orange River), past the Congo, past the
Niger, past the island of Gorillas described by Hanno, who explored the west coast under Neco
either before or after this time, until at last the little Phoenician ships sailed peacefully
into the Mediterranean Sea.

         "Here is the Ocean-Gate. Here is the Strait
    Twice before seen, where goes the Middle Sea
    Unto the Setting Sun and the Unknown--
    No more unknown, Ithobal's ships have sailed
    Around all Africa. Our task is done.
    These are the Pillars, this the Midland Sea.
    The road to Tyre is yonder. Every wave
    Is homely. Yonder, sure, Old Nilus pours
    Into this Sea, the Waters of the World,
    Whose secret is his own and thine and mine."

It will ever remain one of the many disputed points in early geography whether or not Africa
was circumnavigated at this early date. If the Phoenicians did accomplish such a feat they
kept their experiences a secret as usual, and the early maps gave a very wrong idea of South
Africa. On the other hand, we know they had good seaworthy ships in advance of their neighbours.

"I remember," says Xenophon, "I once went aboard a Phoenician ship, where I observed the best
example of good order that I ever met with; and especially it was surprising to observe the
vast numbers of implements which were necessary for the management of such a small vessel.
What numbers of oars, stretchers, ship-hooks, and spikes were there for bringing the ship in
and out of the harbour! What numbers of shrouds, cables, ropes, and other tackling for the
ship! What a vast quantity of provisions were there for the sustenance and support of the sailors!"
Captain and sailors knew where everything was stowed away on board, and "while the captain
stood upon the deck, he was considering with himself what things might be wanting in his voyage,
what things wanted repair, and what length of time his provisions would last; for, as he observed
to me, it is no proper time, when the storm comes upon us, to have the necessary implements
to seek, or to be out of repair, or to want them on board; for the gods are never favourable
to those who are negligent or lazy; and it is their goodness that they do not destroy us when
we are diligent."

There is an old story which says that one day the Greeks captured a Phoenician ship and copied
it. However this may be, the Greeks soon became great colonisers themselves, and we have to
thank a Greek philosopher living in Miletus, on the coast of Asia Minor, for making the first
map of the ancient world. Of course, the Babylonians and Egyptians had made maps thousands
of years before this, but this Greek--Anaximander introduced the idea of map-making to the
astonished world about the year 580 B.C. What was the map like? It was "a bronze tablet, whereupon
the whole circuit of the Earth was engraved with all its seas and rivers."

This is all we know. But this map-making Greek was famous for another idea in advance of his
time. He used to study the heavens and the earth, and after much study he made up his mind
that the earth was round and not flat. He taught that the world hung free in the midst of the
universe, or rather in the midst of the waters. The centre of the earth was at Delphi. In the
world of legend there was a reason for this. Two eagles had been let loose, one from the eastern
extremity of the world, the other from the west, and they met at Delphi--hence it was assumed
that Delphi was at the centre of the world. And Delphi at this time was such a wonderful city.
On the slopes of Mount Parnassus it stood high on a rock--on the heights stood the temple of
Apollo with its immense riches, its golden statue of the great god, and its ever-smoking fire
of wood.

In the same way, in those days of imperfect geography, as we hear of Delphi being the centre
of the Greek world, so we hear of Jerusalem being considered the central point of the world.

"This is Jerusalem," says Ezekiel, "in the midst of the nations and countries that are round
about her." In the Mappa Mundi (thirteenth century) in Hereford Cathedral, Jerusalem is still
the centre of the earth.

Following close on these ideas came another. It, too, came from Miletus, now famous for its
school of thought and its searchers after truth.

A Tour of the World is the grand-sounding title of the work of Hecataeus, who wrote it about
500 years B.C. It contains an account of the coast and islands of the Mediterranean Sea and
an outline of all the lands the Greeks thought they knew. In the fragments that have come down
to us, the famous old geographer divides both his work and the world into two parts. One part
he calls Europe, the other Asia, in which he includes Africa bounded by the river Nile. He
held that these two parts were equal. They were divided from one another by the Mediterranean
Sea, the Black Sea, and the Caspian Sea, while round the whole flat world still flowed the
everlasting ocean stream.

CHAPTER IV

HERODOTUS--THE TRAVELLER

The greatest traveller of olden times now comes upon the scene--Herodotus, the Greek, the "Father
of History."

He is a traveller as well as a writer. He has journeyed as one eager for knowledge, with a
"hungry heart" and a keen, observant eye. He tells us what he has seen with his eyes, what
he has heard with his ears. He insists that the world is flat, he acknowledges that it is divided
into two parts--Europe and Asia; but he can afford to laugh at those who draw maps of the world
"without any sense to guide them," in which they make the whole world round as if drawn with
a pair of compasses, with the ocean stream running round it, making Europe and Asia of equal size.

His first journey is to Egypt.

"I speak at length about Egypt," he says, "because it contains more marvellous things than
any other country--things too strange for words. Not only is the climate different from that
of the rest of the world and the rivers unlike any other rivers, but the people also, in most
of their manners and customs, reverse the common practice of mankind. The women are employed
in trade and business, while the men stay at home to spin and weave. Other nations in weaving
throw the woof up the warp, but an Egyptian throws it down. In other countries, sons are constrained
to make provision for their parents; in Egypt it is not only the sons, but the daughters. In
other countries the priests have long hair; in Egypt their heads are shaven. Other nations
fasten their ropes and hooks to the outside of their sails, but the Egyptians to the inside.
The Greeks write and read from left to right, but the Egyptians from right to left."

After sailing for some seven hundred miles up the river Nile from the coast, past Heliopolis,
the once famous city of Ancient Egypt, past Memphis, the old capital, past Thebes, with its
hundred gates, to Elephantine, the "ivory island," opposite to what is now Assuan, he is more
than ever puzzled about its course and the reason of its periodical floods.

"Concerning the nature of the river, I was not able to gain any information from the priests.
I was particularly anxious to learn from them why the Nile, at the commencement of the summer
solstice, begins to rise and continues to increase for a hundred days--and why, as soon as
that number is past, it forthwith retires and contracts its stream, continuing low during the
whole of the winter until the summer solstice comes round again. On none of these points could
I obtain any explanation from the inhabitants, though I made every inquiry."

The sources of the Nile entirely baffled Herodotus as they baffled many another later explorer
long years after he had passed away. "Of the sources of the Nile no one can give any account,
since the country through which it passes is desert and without inhabitants," he explains,
his thirst for knowledge unsatisfied. Some priest volunteers this explanation. On the frontiers
of Egypt are two high mountain-peaks called Crophi and Mophi; in an unfathomable abyss between
the two rose the Nile. But Herodotus does not believe in Crophi and Mophi; he inclines to the
idea that the Nile rises away in the west and flows eastward right across Libya.

He travelled a little about Libya himself, little realising the size of the great continent
of Africa through which he passed. Many a strange tale of these unknown parts did he relate
to his people at home. He had seen the tallest and handsomest race of men in the world, who
lived to the age of one hundred and twenty years--gold was so abundant that it was used even
for the prisoners' chains--he had seen folks who lived on meat and milk only, never having
seen bread or wine.

Some thirty days' journey from the land of the lotus-eaters he had found tribes who hunted
with four-horse chariots and whose oxen walked backwards as they grazed, because their horns
curve outwards in front of their heads, and if they moved forwards these horns would stick
in the ground.

Right across the desolate sandy desert of the north, Herodotus seems to have made his way.
The "region of the wild beasts" must have been truly perilous, "for this is the tract," he
says, "in which huge serpents are found, and the lions, the elephants, the bears, and the horned
asses."

He also tells us of antelopes, gazelles, asses, foxes, wild sheep, jackals, and panthers. There
is no end to the quaint sights he records. Here is a tribe whose wives drive the chariots to
battle, here another who paint themselves red and eat honey and monkeys, another who grow their
hair long on the right side of their heads and shave it close on the left. Back through Egypt
to Syria went our observant traveller, visiting the famous seaport of Tyre on the way. "I visited
the temple of Hercules at that place and found two pillars, one of pure gold, the other of
emerald, shining with great brilliancy at night." That temple was already two thousand three
hundred years old.

Herodotus makes some astounding statements about various parts of the world. He asserts that
a good walker could walk across Asia Minor, from north to south, in five days, a distance we
know now to be three hundred miles! He tells us that the Danube rises in the Pyrenees Mountains
and flows right through Europe till it empties its waters into the Black Sea, giving us a long
and detailed account of a country he calls Scythia (Russia) with many rivers flowing into this
same Black Sea.

But here we must leave the old traveller and picture him reading aloud to his delighted hearers
his account of his discoveries and explorations, discussing with the learned Greeks of the
day the size and wonders of the world as they imagined it.

News travelled slowly in these bygone days, and we know the Phoenicians were very fond of keeping
their discoveries secret, but it seems strange to think that Herodotus never seems to have
heard the story of Hanno the Carthaginian, who coasted along the west of North Africa, being
the first explorer to reach the place we know as "Sierra Leone."

Hanno's "Periplus," or the "Coasting Survey of Hanno," is one of the few Phoenician documents
that has lived through the long ages. In it the commander of the expedition himself tells his
own story. With an idea of colonising, he left Carthage--the most famous of the Phoenician
colonies--with sixty ships containing an enormous number of men and women.

"When we had set sail," says Hanno shortly, "and passed the pillars (of Hercules) after two
days' voyage, we founded the first city. Below this city lay a great plain. Sailing thence
westward we came to a promontory of Libya thickly covered with trees. Here we built a temple
to the Sea-god and proceeded thence half a day's journey eastward, till we reached a lake lying
not far from the sea and filled with abundance of great reeds. Here were feeding elephants
and a great number of other wild animals. After we had gone a day's sail beyond the lakes we
founded cities near to the sea."

Making friends with the tribes along the coast, they reached the Senegal River. Here they fell
in with "savage men clothed with the skins of beasts," who pelted them with stones so that
they could not land. Past Cape Verde they reached the mouth of the Gambia, "great and broad
and full of crocodiles and river-horses," and thence coasted twelve days to the south and again
five days to the south, which brought them to Sierra Leone--the Lion Mountain as it was called
long years after by the Portuguese.

Here Hanno and his party landed, but as night approached they saw flames issuing from the island
and heard the sound of flutes and cymbals and drums and the noise of confused shouts.

"Great fear then came upon us; we sailed therefore quickly thence much terrified, and passing
on for four days found at night a country full of fire. In the middle was a lofty fire, greater
than all the rest, so that it seemed to touch the stars. When day came on we found that this
was a great mountain which they called the chariot of the gods." They had a last adventure
before they turned homewards at what they called the Isle of Gorillas. Here they found a "savage
people" (Gorillas) whom they pursued, but were unable to catch. At last they managed to catch
three. "But when these, biting and tearing those that led them, would not follow us, we slew
them and, flaying off their skins, carried them to Carthage."

Then abruptly this quaint account of the only Phoenician voyage on record stops. "Further,"
says the commander, "we did not sail, for our food failed us."

Further knowledge of the world was now supplied by the Greeks, who were rapidly asserting themselves
and settling round the coast of the Mediterranean as the Phoenicians had done before them.
As in more ancient days Babylonians and Egyptians had dominated the little world, so now the
power was shifting to the Greeks and Persians. The rise of Persia does not rightly belong to
this story, which is not one of conquest and annexation, but of discovery, so we must content
ourselves by stating the fact that Persia had become a very important country with no less
than fifty-six subject States paying tribute to her, including the land of Egypt. Efforts to
include Greece had failed.

In the year 401 B.C. one Artaxerxes sat on the throne of Persia, the mighty Empire which extended
eastwards beyond the knowledge of Greeks or Phoenicians, even to the unknown regions of the
Indus. He had reigned for many years, when Cyrus, his brother, a dashing young prince, attempted
to seize the throne. Collecting a huge army, including the famous Ten Thousand Greeks, he led
them by way of Phrygia, Cilicia, and along the banks of the Euphrates to within fifty miles
of the gates of Babylon. The journey took nearly five months, a distance of one thousand seven
hundred miles through recognised tracks. Here a battle was fought and Cyrus was slain.

It was midwinter when the Ten Thousand Greeks who had followed their leader so loyally through
the plains of Asia Minor found themselves friendless and in great danger in the very heart
of the enemy's country.

How Xenophon--a mere Greek volunteer, who had accompanied the army from the shores of Asia
Minor--rose up and offered to lead his countrymen back to Greece is a matter of history. It
would take too long to tell in detail how they marched northward through the Assyrian plains,
past the neighbourhood of Nineveh, till they reached the mountain regions which were known
to be inhabited by fierce fighters, unconquered even by the powerful Persians.

Up to this time their line of retreat had followed the "royal road" of merchants and caravans.
Their only chance of safety lay in striking north into the mountains inhabited by this warlike
tribe who had held out amid their wild and rugged country against the Persians themselves.
They now opposed the Greeks with all their might, and it took seven days of continuous fighting
to reach the valley which lay between them and the high tableland of Armenia. They crossed
the Tigris near its source, and a little farther on they also crossed the Euphrates not far
from its source, so they were informed by the Armenians. They now found themselves some five
or six thousand feet above sea-level and in the midst of a bitter Armenian winter. Snow fell
heavily, covering all tracks, and day after day a cold north-east wind, "whose bitter blast
was torture," increased their sufferings as they ploughed their way on and on through such
depths of snow as they had never seen before.

Many died of cold and hunger, many fell grievously sick, and others suffered from snow-blindness
and frostbite.

But Xenophon led his army on, making his notes of the country through which they were toiling,
measuring distances by the day's march, and at last one day when the soldiers were climbing
a steep mountain, a cry, growing louder and more joyous every moment, rent the air--

"Thalassa! Thalassa! The sea! The sea!"

True enough, on the distant horizon, glittering in the sunlight, was a narrow silver streak
of sea--the Black Sea--the goal of all their hopes. The long struggle of five months was over;
they could sail home now along the shores of the Black Sea. They had reached the coast near
the spot Colchis, where the Argonauts landed to win the Golden Fleece long centuries before.

In a work known as the Anabasis, Xenophon wrote the adventures of the Ten Thousand Greeks,
and no geographical explorer ever recorded his travels through unknown countries more faithfully
than did the Greek leader of twenty-three hundred years ago.

CHAPTER V

ALEXANDER THE GREAT EXPLORES INDIA

Still greater light was shed on the size of the world by Alexander the Great on his famous
expedition to India, by which he almost doubled the area of the world known to the people of
his time. It was just sixty years after Xenophon had made his way right across Asia to the
shores of the Black Sea when Alexander resolved to break, if possible, the power of the Persians.

The great Persian Empire extended from the shores of the Mediterranean right away to the east,
far beyond the knowledge of the Greeks. Indeed, their knowledge of the interior of Asia was
very imperfect, and Alexander's expedition was rather that of an explorer than of a conqueror.
How he overthrew the Persians and subdued an area as large as Europe in the space of twelve
years reads like a romance rather than fact, and it is not for us to tell the story in detail.
Rather let us take up the story, after Alexander has fought and conquered the Persians twice,
besieged Tyre, taken the Phoenician fleet, occupied Egypt, marched across the desert and crossed
the Euphrates, passed over the plain and followed the Tigris to near Nineveh, where he crossed
that river too, fought another famous battle over the Persians, which decided the fate of King
and Monarchy and opened to him the capitals of Babylon and Susa, wherein the immense treasures
of the Persian Empire were stored. King of all Asia, he sat on the throne of the Persian kings
under a golden canopy in the palace of Persepolis.

So far the whole expedition was over country known, if imperfectly, to the Greeks. Now we have
to follow the conquering hero more closely as he leads us into an unknown land away to the
east, known as "the farthest region of the inhabited world towards the east, beyond which lies
the endless sandy desert void of inhabitants." And all the while the great land of India lay
beyond, and beyond again was China, and away far over the ocean sea lay America--and they knew
it not.

Alexander was a young man yet, only twenty-six. It was four years since he had left Europe,
and in that short time he had done wonders. He had conquered the whole western half of the
Persian Empire. Now he resolutely turned his face to the unknown east and started forth on
an expedition of exploration.

Following the main highway from Media, which to-day leads from Teheran, capital of modern Persia,
into the land of the Turkomans and the borders of Russia, he found himself between the great
salt desert and the mountains, which to-day mark the frontier of Persia. Suddenly, to his great
surprise, the Caspian Sea came into sight. It seemed about the same size as the Black Sea,
and he concluded it was connected with the Sea of Azof, though the men of his day were certain
enough that it was the most northern of four great gulfs connected with the outer ocean which
flowed round the world.

Onwards towards the east he marched with his great army. To conciliate the tribes through which
he passed, he adopted Persian dress. This annoyed his Greek countrymen, but, "as they admired
his other virtues, they thought he might be suffered to please himself a little and enjoy his
vanity."

Arrived at the modern boundary between Persia, Afghanistan, and Russia, he and his men pushed
on across Afghanistan, by the caravan route that had long existed from the shores of the Caspian,
by modern Herat, Kandahar,[1] which still bears the conqueror's name, and Kabul to India. Their
way lay through deep snow, deeper than they had ever seen before; and by the time they had
reached the mountains of Kabul it was midwinter.

[Footnote 1: Kandahar = Alexandria in a modern form.]

Between Alexander and India still lay the lofty range of the Hindu Koosh or Indian Caucasus.
But before going south toward India, he turned northwards to explore the unknown country which
lay about the river Oxus. They found the Oxus, a mighty stream, swollen with melting snows.
There were no boats and no wood to build them, so Alexander pioneered his men across in "life-preservers"
made out of their leather tent coverings and stuffed with straw. This river impressed the Greeks
even more than the Euphrates and Tigris, as it impressed many an explorer and poet since these
early days. Let us recall Matthew Arnold's famous description of the Oxus, now seen for the
first time by the Greeks.

Here in this valley the Greeks met more determined opposition than they had yet encountered
since entering Asia, and over two years were occupied in reducing this single district (now
Bokhara and Turkestan) to submission, though it was only some three hundred and fifty miles
square, and in one single year Alexander had conquered a kingdom over one thousand miles in width.

It was not till the spring of 327 B.C. that he was ready to cross the Hindu Koosh and begin
the great expedition into India. The night before the start Alexander discovered that his troops
were now so heavily laden with spoils that they were quite unfit for the long march. So in
the early morning, when they were all ready to start, he suddenly set fire to his own baggage,
and, giving orders that all his men were to do the same, the army started for the passes of
the lofty mountain range.

The banks of the river of Kabul were reached at last. Sending part of the army by the now famous
Kyber Pass toward the Indus, Alexander himself undertook to subdue the mountain tribes and
get control of the Chitral passes. The shepherds of this region opposed him vigorously, but
swiftly and pitilessly the King of Asia sacked their peaceful homes, and city after city fell
to him as he advanced towards the boundaries of Kashmir.

At last the valley of the Indus was reached. A bridge of boats was hastily thrown over, and
Alexander and his army passed to the other side.

Porus, the ruler of the country between the Indus and the river Hydaspes (Jehlam), sent presents
of welcome to the invader, including three thousand animals for sacrifice, ten thousand sheep,
thirty elephants, two hundred talents of silver, and seven hundred horsemen. The new king was
also greeted with presents of ivory and precious stones. Even from far Kashmir came greetings
to Alexander, whose fame was spreading rapidly. He now entered the Punjab, the "Land of the
Five Rivers." But on the other side of the river Hydaspes a different reception awaited him.

There the king (Porus) had assembled a sturdy, well-disciplined troop to dispute the passage
of the river, which still separated the new King of Asia from his territory. But under cover
of a mighty thunderstorm Alexander contrived to cross, though the river was rushing down yellow
and fierce after the rains. Secretly the Greeks put together their thirty-oared galleys hidden
in a wood, and utterly surprised Porus by landing on the other side. In their strange wanderings
the Greeks had fought under varying conditions, but they had never faced elephants before.
Nevertheless, they brilliantly repulsed an onslaught of these animals, who slowly retreated,
"facing the foe, like ships backing water, and merely uttering a shrill, piping sound." Despite
the elephants the old story was repeated, civilised arms triumphed over barbarians, and the
army of Porus was annihilated, his chariots shattered, and thirty-three thousand men slain.

The kingdom beyond the Hydaspes was now Alexander's. Ordering a great fleet of rafts and boats
to be built for his proposed voyage to the mouth of the Indus, he pushed on to complete the
conquest of the Five Stream Land, or the Punjab--the last province of the great Persian Empire.
This was India--all that was known at this time. The India of the Ganges valley was beyond
the knowledge of the Western world--the Ganges itself unknown to the Persians. And Alexander
saw no reason to change his mind.

"The great sea surrounds the whole earth," he stoutly maintained.

But when he reached the eastern limit of the Punjab and heard that beyond lay a fertile land
"where the inhabitants were skilled in agriculture, where there were elephants in yet greater
abundance and men were superior in stature and courage," the world stretched out before him
in an unexpected direction, and he longed to explore farther, to conquer new and utterly unknown
worlds!

But at last his men struck. They were weary, some were wounded, some were ill; seventy days
of incessant rain had taken the heart out of them.

"I am not ignorant, soldiers," said Alexander to the hesitating troops, "that during the last
few days the natives of this country have been spreading all sorts of rumours to work upon
your fears. The Persians in this way sought to terrify you with the gates of Cilicia, with
the plains of Mesopotamia, with the Tigris and Euphrates, and yet this river you crossed by
a ford and that by means of a bridge. By my troth, we had long ago fled from Asia could fables
have been able to scare us. We are not standing on the threshold of our enterprise, but at
the very close. We have already reached the sunrise and the ocean, and unless your sloth and
cowardice prevent, we shall thence return in triumph to our native land, having conquered the
earth to its remotest bounds. I beseech you that ye desert not your king just at the very moment
when he is approaching the limits of the inhabited world."

But the soldiers, "with their heads bent earthwards," stood in silence. It was not that they
would not follow him beyond the sunset; they could not. Their tears began to flow, sobs reached
the ears of Alexander, his anger turned to pity, and he wept with his men.

"Oh, sir," at last cried one of his men, "we have done and suffered up to the full measure
of the capacity of mortal nature. We have traversed seas and lands, and know them better than
do the inhabitants themselves. We are standing now almost on the earth's utmost verge, and
yet you are preparing to go in quest of an India unknown even to the Indians themselves. You
would fain root out, from their hidden recesses and dens, a race of men that herd with snakes
and wild beasts, so that you may traverse as a conqueror more regions than the sun surveys.
But while your courage will be ever growing, our vigour is fast waning to its end. See how
bloodless be our bodies, pierced with how many wounds and gashed with how many scars! Our weapons
are blunt, our armour worn out! We have been driven to assume the Persian dress! Which of us
has a horse? We have conquered all the world, but are ourselves destitute of all things."

The conqueror was at last conquered. The order to turn back was reluctantly given by the disappointed
king and leader. It was received with shouts of joy from the mixed multitudes of his followers,
and the expedition faced for home. Back they marched through the new lands where no less than
two thousand cities had owned his sway, till they came to the banks of the river where the
ships were building. Two thousand boats were ready, including eighty thirty-oared galleys.

It was now September 326 B.C.

Nearchus from Crete was made Admiral of the new fleet, which at dawn one October morning pushed
out upon the river Hydaspes and set sail downstream towards the unknown sea, Alexander standing
proudly on the prow of the royal galley. The trumpets rang out, the oars moved, and the strange
argosy, "such as had never been seen before in these parts," made its way down the unknown
river to the unknown sea. Natives swarmed to the banks of the river to wonder at the strange
sight, marvelling specially to see horses as passengers on board! The greater part of the army
followed the ships on land, marching along the shores. At last the waters of the Hydaspes mingled
with those of the Indus, and onwards down this great river floated the Persian fleet. Alexander
had no pilots, no local knowledge of the country, but with his "unquenchable ambition to see
the ocean and reach the boundaries of the world," he sailed on, "ignorant of everything on
the way they had to pass." In vain they asked the natives assembled on the banks how far distant
was the sea; they had never heard of the sea! At last they found a tide mixing its salt waters
with the fresh. Soon a flood-tide burst upon them, forcing back the current of the river, and
scattering the fleet. The sailors of the tideless Mediterranean knew nothing of the rise and
fall of tides. They were in a state of panic and consternation. Some tried to push off their
ships with long poles, others tried to row against the incoming tide; prows were dashed against
poops, oars were broken, sterns were bumped, until at last the sea had flowed over all the
level land near the river mouth.

Suddenly a new danger appeared! The tide turned and the sea began to recede. Further misfortunes
now befell the ships. Many were left high and dry; most of them were damaged in some way or
another. Alexander sent horsemen to the seashore with instructions to watch for the return
of the tide and to ride back in haste so that the fleet might be prepared.

Thus they got safely out to sea on the next high tide.

Alexander's explorations were now at an end. Leaving Nearchus to explore the seacoast at the
mouth of the Indus, he left the spot near where the town of Hyderabad now stands, and turned
his face toward the home he was never to reach. We must not linger over his terrible coast
journey through the scorching desert of Beluchistan the billows of sand, the glare of the barren
sea, the awful thirst, the long hungry marches of forty miles a day under the burning Eastern sun.

Our story is one of discovery, and we must turn to Nearchus, Admiral of the fleet, left behind
at the mouth of the Indus to explore the coast to the Persian Gulf, where he was to meet Alexander
if possible. Shortly after the fleet had emerged from the mouth of the Indus a violent south-west
monsoon began to blow and Nearchus was obliged to seek shelter in a harbour, which he called
the port of Alexander, but which to-day is known as Karachi, the most western seaport of India.
The waters of the Indian Ocean were quite unknown to the Greeks, and they could only coast
along in sight of land, anchoring at different points for the men to land and get water and
food. Past the wild barren shores of Beluchistan they made their way; the natives subsisted
on fish entirely even as they do to-day--even their huts being made of fish bones and their
bread of pounded fish.

They had but one adventure in their five months' cruise to the Persian Gulf, but we have a
graphic account of how the terrified Greeks met a shoal of whales and how they frightened the
whales away. Here is the story. One day towards daybreak they suddenly saw water spouting up
from the sea, as if being violently carried upwards by whirlwinds. The sailors, feeling very
frightened, asked their native guides what it meant. The natives replied that it was caused
by whales blowing the water up into the air. At this explanation the Greek sailors were panic-stricken
and dropped the oars from their hands. Nearchus saw that something must be done at once. So
he bade the men draw up their ships in line as if for battle and row forward side by side towards
the whales, shouting and splashing with their oars. At a given signal they duly advanced, and
when they came near the sea-monsters they shouted with all their might and blew their trumpets
and made all possible noise with their oars. On hearing which, says the old story, "the whales
took fright and plunged into the depths, but not long after came to the surface again close
to the sterns of the vessels and once more spouted great jets of water. Then the sailors shouted
aloud at their happy and unlooked-for escape," and Nearchus was cheered as the saviour of the
fleet. It is not uncommon to-day for steamers bound from Aden to Bombay to encounter what is
called a "school of whales" similar to those which alarmed the fleet of Nearchus in the year
323 B.C.

The expedition was completely successful and Nearchus pioneered his fleet to the mouth of the
Euphrates.

But the death of Alexander the Great and the confusion that followed set back the advance of
geographical discovery in this direction for some time.

Alexandria--one of the many towns founded by Alexander--had become the world centre of the
learned from Europe, Asia, and Africa. Its position was unrivalled. Situated at the mouth of
the Nile, it commanded the Mediterranean Sea, while by means of the Red Sea it held easy communication
with India and Arabia. When Egypt had come under the sway of Alexander, he had made one of
his generals ruler over that country, and men of intellect collected there to study and to
write. A library was started, and a Greek, Eratosthenes, held the post of librarian at Alexandria
for forty years, namely, from 240-196 B.C. During this period he made a collection of all the
travels and books of earth description--the first the world had ever known--and stored them
in the Great Library of which he must have felt so justly proud. But Eratosthenes did more
than this. He was the originator of Scientific Geography. He realised that no maps could be
properly laid down till something was known of the size and shape of the earth.

By this time all men of science had ceased to believe that the world was flat; they thought
of it as a perfect round, but fixed at the centre in space. Many had guessed at the size of
the earth. Some said it was forty thousand miles round, but Eratosthenes was not content with
guessing. He studied the length of the shadow thrown by the sun at Alexandria and compared
it with that thrown by the sun at Syene, near the first cataract of the Nile, some five hundred
miles distant, and, as he thought, in the same longitude. The differences in the length of
these two shadows he calculated would represent one-fiftieth of the circumference of the earth
which would accordingly be twenty-five thousand miles. There was no one to tell him whether
he had calculated right or wrong, but we know to-day that he was wonderfully right. But he
must know more. He must find out how much of this earth was habitable. To the north and south
of the known countries men declared it was too hot or too cold to live. So he decided that
from north to south, that is, from the land of Thule to the land of Punt (Somaliland), the
habitable earth stretched for some three thousand eight hundred miles, while from east to west--that
is, from the Pillars of Hercules (Straits of Gibraltar) to India--would be some eight thousand
miles. All the rest was ocean. Ignoring the division of the world into three continents, he
divided it into two, north and south, divided by the Mediterranean and by a long range of mountains
intersecting the whole of Asia.

Then the famous librarian drew a map of the world for his library at Alexandria, but it has
perished with all the rest of the valuable treasure collected in this once celebrated city.
We know that he must have made a great many mistakes in drawing a map of his little island
world which measured eight thousand miles by three thousand eight hundred miles. It must have
been quaintly arranged. The Caspian Sea was connected with a Northern Ocean, the Danube sent
a tributary to the Adriatic, there was no Bay of Biscay, the British Isles lay in the wrong
direction, Africa was not half its right size, the Ganges flowed into the Eastern Ocean, Ceylon
was a huge island stretching east and west, while across the whole of Asia a mountain chain
stretched in one long unbroken line. And yet, with all his errors, he was nearer the truth
than men three centuries later.

CHAPTER VI

PYTHEAS FINDS THE BRITISH ISLES

For some centuries past men had been pushing eastward, and to west, vast lands lay unexplored,
undreamt of, amongst them a little far-off island "set in a silver sea." Pytheas was the first
explorer to bring the world news of the British Isles.

About the time that Alexander was making his way eastward through Persia, Pytheas was leaving
the Greek colony of Marseilles for the west and north. The Phoenicians, with their headquarters
at Carthage, had complete command of the mineral trade of Spain--the Mexico of the ancient
world. They knew where to find the gold and silver from the rivers--indeed, they said that
the coast, from the Tagus to the Pyrenees, was "stuffed with mines of gold and silver and tin."
The Greeks were now determined to see for themselves--the men of Carthage should no longer
have it all their own way. Where were these tin islands, kept so secret by the master-mariners
of the ancient world?

A committee of merchants met at Marseilles and engaged the services of Pytheas, a great mathematician,
and one who made a study of the effect of the moon on the tides. All sorts of vague rumours
had reached the ears of Pytheas about the northern regions he was about to visit. He would
discover the homes of the tin and amber merchants, he would find the people who lived "at the
back of the north wind," he would reach a land of perpetual sunshine, where swans sang like
nightingales and life was one unending banquet.

So Pytheas, the mathematician of Marseilles started off on his northern trip. Unfortunately,
his diary and book called The Circuit of the Earth have perished, and our story of geographical
discovery is the poorer. But these facts have survived.

The ships first touched at Cadiz, the "Tyre of the West," a famous port in those days, where
Phoenician merchants lived, "careless and secure" and rich. This was the limit of Greek geographical
knowledge; here were the Pillars of Hercules, beyond which all was dim and mysterious and interesting.
Five days' sail, that is to say, some three hundred miles along the coast of Spain, brought
Pytheas to Cape St. Vincent.

He thought he was navigating the swift ocean river flowing round the world. He was, therefore,
surprised to find as he rounded the Cape that the current had ceased, or, in his own words,
the "ebb came to an end." Three days more and they were at the mouth of the Tagus. Near this
part of the coast lay the Tin Islands, according to Greek ideas, though even to-day their exact
locality is uncertain. Pytheas must have heard the old tradition that the Cassiterides were
ten in number and lay near each other in the ocean, that they were inhabited by people who
wore black cloaks and long tunics reaching to the feet, that they walked with long staves and
subsisted by their cattle. They led a wandering life; they bartered hides, tin, and lead with
the merchants in exchange for pottery, salt, and implements of bronze.

That these islands had already been visited by Himilco the Carthaginian seems fairly certain.
He had started from Cadiz for the north when Hanno started for the south. From the Tin Islands
his fleet had ventured forth into the open sea. Thick fogs had hidden the sun and the ships
were driven south before a north wind till they reached, though they did not know it, the Sargasso
Sea, famous for its vast plains of seaweed, through which it was difficult to push the ships.

"Sea animals," he tells us, "crept upon the tangled weed." It has been thought that with a
little good fortune Himilco might have discovered America two thousand years before the birth
of Columbus. But Himilco returned home by the Azores or Fortunate Islands, as they were called.

Leaving the Tin Islands, Pytheas voyaged on to Cape Finisterre, landing on the island of Ushant,
where he found a temple served by women priests who kept up a perpetual fire in honour of their
god. Thence Pytheas sailed prosperously on up the English Channel till he struck the coast
of Kent. Britain, he announced, was several days' journey from Ushant, and about one hundred
and seventy miles to the north. He sailed round part of the coast, making notes of distances,
but these are curiously exaggerated. This was not unnatural, for the only method of determining
distance was roughly based on the number of miles that a ship could go in an hour along the
shore. Measuring in this primitive fashion, Pytheas assures us that Britain is a continent
of enormous size, and that he has discovered a "new world." It is, he says, three cornered
in shape, something like the head of a battleaxe. The south side, lying opposite the coast
of France, is eight hundred and thirty-five miles in length, the eastern coast is sixteen hundred
and sixty-five miles, the western two thousand two hundred and twenty-two--indeed, the whole
country was thought to be over four thousand miles in circumference. These calculations must
have been very upsetting to the old geographers of that age, because up to this time they had
decided that the whole world was only three thousand four hundred miles long and six thousand
eight hundred broad.

He tells us that he made journeys into the interior of Britain, that the inhabitants drink
mead, and that there is an abundance of wheat in the fields.

"The natives," he says, "collect the sheaves in great barns and thrash out the corn there,
because they have so little sunshine that an open thrashing-place would be of little use in
that land of clouds and rain." He seems to have voyaged north as far as the Shetland Islands,
but he never saw Ireland.

Having returned from the north of the Thames, Pytheas crossed the North Sea to the mouth of
the Rhine, a passage which took about two and a half days. He gives a pitiable account of the
people living on the Dutch coast and their perpetual struggle with the sea. The natives had
not learnt the art of making dykes and embankments. A high tide with a wind setting toward
the shore would sweep over the low-lying country and swamp their homes. A mounted horseman
could barely gallop from the rush and force of these strong North Sea tides.

But the Greek geographers would not believe this; they only knew the tideless Mediterranean,
and they thought Pytheas was lying when he told of the fierce northern sea. Pytheas sailed
past the mouth of the Elbe, noting the amber cast upon the shore by the high spring tides.
But all these interesting discoveries paled before the famous land of Thule, six days' voyage
north of Britain, in the neighbourhood of the frozen ocean. Grand excitement reigned among
geographers when they heard of Thule, and a very sea of romance rose up around the name. Had
Pytheas indeed found the end of the world? Was it an island? Was it mainland? In the childhood
of the world, when so little was known and so much imagined, men's minds caught at the name
of Thule--Ultima Thule--far-away Thule, and weaved round it many and beautiful legends. But
to-day we ask: Was it Iceland? Was it Lapland? Was it one of the Shetland Isles?

"Pytheas said that the farthest parts of the world are those which lie about Thule, the northernmost
of the Britannic Isles, but he never said whether Thule was an island or whether the world
was habitable by man as far as that point. I should think myself"--the speaker is Strabo, a
famous Greek traveller who wrote seventeen books of geography--"I should think myself that
the northern limit of habitude lies much farther to the south, for the writers of our age say
nothing of any place beyond Ireland, which is situate in front of the northern parts of Britain."
Pytheas said that Thule was six days' sail north of Britain. "But who in his senses would believe
this?" cries Strabo again. "For Pytheas, who described Thule, has been shown to be the falsest
of men. A traveller, starting from the middle of Britain and going five hundred miles to the
north, would come to a country somewhere about Ireland, where living would be barely possible."

The first account of the Arctic regions likewise reads like pure romance to the ignorant and
untravelled. "After one day's journey to the north of Thule," says Pytheas, "men come to a
sluggish sea, where there is no separation of sea, land, and air, but a mixture of these elements
like the substance of jelly-fish, through which one can neither walk nor sail." Here the nights
were very short, sometimes only two hours, after which the sun rose again. This, in fact, was
the "Sleeping Palace of the Sun."

With all this wealth of discovery, Pytheas returned home by the Bay of Biscay to the mouth
of the Gironde; thence he sailed up the Garonne, and from the modern town of Bordeaux he reached
Marseilles by an overland journey.

CHAPTER VII

JULIUS CAESAR AS EXPLORER

Our next explorer is Julius Caesar. As Alexander the Great had combined the conqueror with
the explorer, so now history repeats itself, and we find the Roman Caesar not only conquering,
but exploring. It was Caesar who first dispelled the mist that lay over the country about the
French Seine, the German Rhine, the English Thames--Caesar who gives us the first graphic account
of crossing the English Channel from France to England. Pytheas had hinted at the fog-bound
lands of the north--Caesar brought them into the light of day.

Since the days of Alexander the centre of Empire had shifted from Greece to Rome, and Rome
was now conquering and annexing land, as Persia had done in the olden days. Hence it was that
Julius Caesar was in the year 58 B.C. appointed Governor of a new province recently brought
under Roman sway, stretching from the Alps to the Garonne and northward to the Lake of Geneva,
which at this time marked the frontier of the Roman Empire. Caesar made no secret of his intentions
to subdue the tribes to the north of his province and bring all Gaul under the dominion of
Rome. His appointment carried with it the command of four legions, including some twenty thousand
soldiers. His chance soon came, and we find Caesar, with all the ability of a great commander,
pushing forward with his army into the very heart of France one hundred and fifty miles beyond
the Roman frontier.

On the banks of the river Saone he defeated a large body of Celtic people who were migrating
from Switzerland to make their homes in the warmer and roomier plains at the foot of the Pyrenees.

While the defeated Celts returned to their chilly homes among the mountains, victorious Caesar
resolved to push on at the head of his army toward the Rhine, where some German tribes under
a "ferocious headstrong savage" threatened to overrun the country. After marching through utterly
unknown country for three days, he heard that fresh swarms of invaders had crossed the Rhine,
intending to occupy the more fertile tracts on the French side. They were making for the town
we now call Besancon--then, as now, strongly fortified, and nearly surrounded by the river
Doubs. By forced marches night and day, Caesar hastened to the town and took it before the
arrival of the invaders.

Accounts of the German tribes even now approaching were brought in by native traders and Gaulish
chiefs, until the Roman soldiers were seized with alarm. Yes, said the traders, these Germans
were "men of huge stature, incredible valour, and practised skill in wars; many a time they
had themselves come across them, and had not been able to look them in the face or meet the
glare of their piercing eyes."

The Romans felt they were in an unknown land, about to fight against an unknown foe. Violent
panic seized them, "completely paralysing every one's judgment and nerve." Some could not restrain
their tears; others shut themselves up in their tents and bemoaned their fate. "All over the
camp men were making their wills," until Caesar spoke, and the panic ceased. Seven days' march
brought them to the plain of Alsace, some fifty miles from the Rhine. A battle was fought with
the German tribes, and "the enemy all turned tail and did not cease their flight until they
reached the Rhine." Some swam across, some found boats, many were killed by the Romans in hot
pursuit.

For the first time Romans beheld the German Rhine--that great river that was to form a barrier
for so long between them and the tribes beyond. But Caesar's exploration was not to end here.
The following year found him advancing against the Belgae--tribes living between the Rhine
and the Seine. In one brilliant campaign he subdued the whole of north-eastern Gaul from the
Seine to the Rhine. Leaving Roman soldiers in the newly conquered country, he returned to his
province, and was some eight hundred miles away when he heard that a general rebellion was
breaking out in that part we now know as Brittany. He at once ordered ships to be built on
the Loire, "which flows into the ocean," oarsmen to be trained, seamen and pilots assembled.

The spring of 56 B.C. found Caesar at the seat of war. His ships were ready on the Loire. But
the navy of the Veneti was strong. They were a sea-going folk, who knew their own low rocky
coast, intersected by shallow inlets of the sea; they knew their tides and their winds. Their
flat-bottomed boats were suitable to shallows and ebbing tides. Bows and stern stood high out
of the water to resist heavy seas and severe gales; the hulls were built of oak. Leather was
used for sails to withstand the violent ocean storms. The long Roman galleys were no match
for these, and things would have gone badly had not Caesar devised a plan for cutting the enemy's
rigging with hooks "sharpened at the end and fixed to long poles." With these, the Romans cut
the rigging of the enemy's ships forming the fleet of Brittany; the sails fell and the ships
were rendered useless. One after another they were easily captured, and at sunset the victory
lay with the Romans.

The whole of Gaul, from the Rhine to the Pyrenees, seemed now subdued. Caesar had conquered
as he explored, and the skill of his well-disciplined army triumphed everywhere over the untrained
courage of the barbarian tribes.

Still, the German tribes were giving trouble about the country of the Rhine, and in the words
of the famous Commentaries, "Caesar was determined to cross the Rhine, but he hardly thought
it safe to cross in boats. Therefore, although the construction of a bridge presented great
difficulties on account of the breadth, swiftness, and depth of the stream, he nevertheless
thought it best to make the attempt or else not cross at all." Indeed, he wanted to impress
the wild German people on the other side with a sense of the vast power of the Roman Empire.
The barbarian tribes beyond must, indeed, have been impressed with the skill of the Roman soldier.
For in ten days the bridge was completed: timber had been hewn from the forest, brought to
the banks of the Rhine, worked into shape, piles driven into the bed of the river, beams laid
across. And Caesar led his army in triumph to the other side. They stood for the first time
in the land of the Germans, near the modern town of Coblenz, and after eighteen days on the
farther side, they returned to Gaul, destroying the bridge behind them.

Caesar had now a fresh adventure in view. He was going to make his way to Britain. The summer
of 55 B.C. was passing, and "in these parts, the whole of Gaul having a northerly trend, winter
sets in early," wrote Caesar afterwards. There would be no time to conquer, but he could visit
the island, find out for himself what the people were like, learn about harbours and landing-places,
"for of all this the Greeks knew practically nothing. No one, indeed, readily undertakes the
voyage to Britain except traders, and even they know nothing of it except the coast."

Caesar summoned all the traders he could collect and inquired the size of the island, what
tribes dwelt there, their names, their customs, and the shortest sea passage. Then he sent
for the ships which had vanquished the fleet of Brittany the previous year; he also assembled
some eighty merchant ships on the northern coast of Gaul, probably not very far from Calais.

It was near the end of August, when soon after midnight the wind served and he set sail. A
vision of the great Roman--determined, resolute--rises before us as, standing on the deck of
the galley, he looks out on to the dark waters of the unknown sea bound for the coast of England.
After a slow passage the little fleet arrived under the steep white cliffs of the southern
coast about nine o'clock next morning. Armed forces of barbarians stood on the heights above
Dover, and, finding it impossible to land, Caesar gave orders to sail some seven miles farther
along the coast, where they ran the ships aground not far from Deal.

But the visit of the Romans to Britain on this occasion lasted but three days, for a violent
storm scattered the ships with the horses on board.

"The same night," says Caesar, "it happened to be full moon, which generally causes very high
tides in the ocean, a fact of which our men were not aware."

Indeed, we may well believe that a night of full moon and an unusually high tide would be a
mystery to those children of the Mediterranean. Their ships had been beached and were lying
high and dry when the rapidly rising tide overwhelmed them. Cables were broken, anchors lost,
panic ensued.

But Caesar's glory lay in overcoming obstacles, and it is well known how he got his troops
and ships safely back across the Channel, and how preparations were hurried on in Gaul for
a second invasion of Britain. This is not the place for the story of his campaign. He was the
first to raise the curtain on the mysterious islands discovered by Pytheas.

   "Far to the west, in the ocean wide,
    Beyond the realm of Gaul, a land there lies,
    Sea-girt it lies, where giants dwelt of old."

Caesar's remarks on this new-found land are interesting for us to-day. He tells us of "a river
called the Thames, about eight miles from the sea." "The interior of Britain," he says, "is
inhabited by a people who, according to tradition, are aboriginal. The population is immense;
homesteads closely resembling those of the Gauls are met with at every turn, and cattle are
very numerous. Gold coins are in use, or iron bars of fixed weight. Hares, fowls, and geese
they think it wrong to taste; but they keep them for pastime or amusement. The climate is more
equable than in Gaul, the cold being less severe. The island is triangular in shape, one side
being opposite Gaul. One corner of this side, by Kent--the landing-place for almost all ships
from Gaul--has an easterly, and the lower one a westerly, aspect. The extent of this side is
about five hundred miles. The second trends off towards Spain. Off the coast here is Ireland,
which is considered only half as large as Britain. Halfway across is an island called 'Man,'
and several smaller islands also are believed to be situated opposite this coast, in which
there is continuous night for thirty days. The length of this side is eight hundred miles.
Thus the whole island is two thousand miles in circumference. The people of the interior do
not, for the most part, cultivate grain, but live on milk and flesh-meat, and clothe themselves
with skins. All Britons, without exception, stain themselves with woad, which produces a bluish
tint. They wear their hair long."

Caesar crossed the Thames. "The river can only be forded at one spot," he tells us, "and there
with difficulty." Farther he did not go. And so this is all that was known of Britain for many
a long year to come.

CHAPTER VIII

STRABO'S GEOGRAPHY

Strabo wrote his famous geography near the beginning of the Christian era, but he knew nothing
of the north of England, Scotland, or Wales. He insisted on placing Ireland to the north, and
scoffed at Pytheas' account of Thule.

And yet he boasted a wider range than any other writer on geography, "for that those who had
penetrated farther towards the West had not gone so far to the East, and those on the contrary
who had seen more of the East had seen less of the West."

Like Herodotus, Strabo had travelled himself from Armenia and western Italy, from the Black
Sea to Egypt and up the Nile to Philae. But his seventeen volumes--vastly important to his
contemporaries--read like a romance to us to-day, and a glance at the map laid down according
to his descriptions is like a vague and distorted caricature of the real thing. And yet, according
to the men of his times, he "surpasses all the geographical writings of antiquity, both in
grandeur of plan and in abundance and variety of its materials."

Strabo has summed up for us the knowledge of the ancient world as it was in the days of the
Emperor Caesar Augustus of the great Roman Empire, as it was when in far-off Syria the Christ
was born and the greater part of the known earth was under the sway of Rome.

A wall-map had already been designed by order of Augustus to hang in a public place in Rome--the
heart of the Empire--so that the young Romans might realise the size of their inheritance,
while a list of the chief places on the roads, which, radiating from Rome, formed a network
over the Empire, was inscribed on the Golden Milestone in the Forum.

We may well imagine with what keen interest the schoolmen of Alexandria would watch the extension
of the Roman Empire. Here Strabo had studied, here or at Rome he probably wrote his great work
toward the close of a long life. He has read his Homer and inclines to take every word he says
as true. Herodotus he will have none of.

"Herodotus and other writers trifle very much," he asserts, "when they introduce into their
histories the marvellous like an interlude of some melody."

In like manner he disbelieves poor Pytheas and his accounts of the land of Ultima Thule and
his marvellous walks through Britain, while he clings to the writings of Eratosthenes.

But in common with them all Strabo believes the world to be one vast island, surrounded on
all sides by ocean into which the rivers flow, and the Caspian Sea and Persian Gulf are but
inlets. So is also the Mediterranean or "Our Sea," as he prefers to call it. This earth-island
reaches north to south, from Ireland, "barely habitable on account of the cold," to the cinnamon
country (Somaliland), "the most southerly point of the habitable earth." From west to east
it stretches from the Pillars of Hercules right "through the middle of Our Sea" to the shores
of Asia Minor, then across Asia by an imaginary chain of mountains to an imaginary spot where
the Ganges, lately discovered, emptied its waters into the world-surrounding ocean stream.

The breadth of the habitable earth is three thousand miles, the length about seven thousand--a
little world, indeed, with the greater world lying all around it, still undreamt of by the
old student of geography and the traveller after truth.

He begins his book with a detailed account of southern Spain. He tells of her two hundred towns.
"Those best known are situated on the rivers, estuaries, and seas; but the two which have acquired
the greatest name and importance are Cordova and Cadiz. After these Seville is the most noted....
A vast number of people dwell along the Guadalquivir, and you may sail up it almost a hundred
and twenty miles from the sea to Cordova and the places a little higher up. The banks and little
inlets of this river are cultivated with the greatest diligence. The eye is also delighted
with groves and gardens, which in this district are met with in the highest perfection. For
fifty miles the river is navigable for ships of considerable size, but for the cities higher
up smaller vessels are employed, and thence to Cordova river-boats. These are now constructed
of planks joined together, but they were formerly made out of a single trunk. A chain of mountains,
rich in metal, runs parallel to the Guadalquivir, approaching the river, sometimes more, sometimes
less, toward the north."

He grows enthusiastic over the richness of this part of southern Spain, famous from ancient
days under the name of Tartessus for its wealth. "Large quantities of corn and wine are exported,
besides much oil, which is of the first quality, also wax, honey, and pitch ... the country
furnishes the timber for their shipbuilding. They have likewise mineral salt and not a few
salt streams. A considerable quantity of salted fish is exported, not only from hence, but
also from the remainder of the coast beyond the Pillars. Formerly they exported large quantities
of garments, but they now send the unmanufactured wool remarkable for its beauty. The stuffs
manufactured are of incomparable texture. There is a superabundance of cattle and a great variety
of game, while on the other hand there are certain little hares which burrow in the ground
(rabbits). These creatures destroy both seeds and trees by gnawing their roots. They are met
with throughout almost the whole of Spain. It is said that formerly the inhabitants of Majorca
and Minorca sent a deputation to the Romans requesting that a new land might be given them,
as they were quite driven out of their country by these animals, being no longer able to stand
against their vast multitudes." The seacoast on the Atlantic side abounds in fish, says Strabo.
"The congers are quite monstrous, far surpassing in size those of Our Sea. Shoals of rich fat
tunny fish are driven hither from the seacoast beyond. They feed on the fruit of stunted oak,
which grows at the bottom of the sea and produces very large acorns. So great is the quantity
of fruit, that at the season when they are ripe the whole coast on either side of the Pillars
is covered with acorns thrown up by the tides. The tunny fish become gradually thinner, owing
to the failure of their food as they approach the Pillars from the outer sea."

He describes, too, the metals of this wondrous land--gold, silver, copper, and iron. It is
astonishing to think that in the days of Strabo the silver mines employed forty thousand workmen,
and produced something like 900 pounds a day in our modern money!

But we cannot follow Strabo over the world in all his detail. He tells us of a people living
north of the Tagus, who slept on the ground, fed on acorn-bread, and wore black cloaks by day
and night. He does not think Britain is worth conquering--Ireland lies to the north, not west,
of Britain; it is a barren land full of cannibals and wrapped in eternal snows--the Pyrenees
run parallel to the Rhine--the Danube rises near the Alps--even Italy herself runs east and
west instead of north and south. His remarks on India are interesting.

"The reader," he says, "must receive the accounts of this country with indulgence. Few persons
of our nation have seen it; the greater part of what they relate is from report. Very few of
the merchants who now sail from Egypt by the Nile and the Arabian Gulf to India have proceeded
as far as the Ganges."

He is determined not to be led astray by the fables of the great size of India. Some had told
him it was a third of the whole habitable world, some that it took four months to walk through
the plain only. "Ceylon is said to be an island lying out at sea seven days' sail from the
most southerly parts of India. Its length is about eight hundred miles. It produces elephants."

Strabo died about the year 21 A.D., and half a century passed before Pliny wrote An Account
of Countries, Nations, Seas, Towns, Havens, Mountains, Rivers, Distances, and Peoples who now
Exist or Formerly Existed. Strange to say, he never refers in the most distant way to his famous
predecessor Strabo. He has but little to add to the earth-knowledge of Strabo. But he gives
us a fuller account of Great Britain, based on the fresh discoveries of Roman generals.

CHAPTER IX

THE ROMAN EMPIRE AND PLINY

In the year 43 A.D. the Emperor Claudius resolved to send an expedition to the British coast,
lying amid the mists and fog of the Northern Ocean.

A gigantic army landed near the spot where Caesar had landed just a hundred years before. The
discovery and conquest of Britain now began in real earnest. The Isle of Wight was overrun
by Romans; the south coast was explored. Roman soldiers lost their lives in the bogs and swamps
of Gloucestershire. The eastern counties, after fierce opposition, submitted at the last. The
spirit of Caractacus and Boadicea spread from tribe to tribe and the Romans were constantly
assailed. But gradually they swept the island. They reached the banks of the river Tyne; they
crossed the Tweed and explored as far as the Firths of Clyde and Forth. From the coast of Galloway
the Romans beheld for the first time the dim outline of the Irish coast. In the year 83 A.D.
Agricola, a new Roman commander, made his way beyond the Firth of Forth.

"Now is the time to penetrate into the heart of Caledonia and to discover the utmost limits
of Britain," cried the Romans, as they began their advance to the Highlands of Scotland. While
a Roman fleet surveyed the coasts and harbours, Agricola led his men up the valley of the Tay
to the edge of the Highlands, but he could not follow the savage Caledonians into their rugged
and inaccessible mountains. To the north of Scotland they never penetrated, and no part of
Ireland ever came under Roman sway, in that air "the Roman eagle never fluttered." The Roman
account of Britain at this time is interesting. "Britain," says Tacitus, "the largest of all
the islands which have come within the knowledge of the Romans, stretches on the east towards
Germany, on the west towards Spain, and on the south it is even within sight of France....
The Roman fleet, at this period first sailing round this remotest coast, gave certain proof
that Britain was an island, and at the same time discovered and subdued the Orkney Islands,
till then unknown. Thule was also distinctly seen, which winter and eternal snow had hitherto
concealed.... The sky in this country is deformed by clouds and frequent rains; but the cold
is never extremely rigorous. The earth yields gold and silver and other metals--the ocean produces
pearls."

The account of Ireland is only from hearsay. "This island," continues Tacitus, "is less than
Britain, but larger than those of Our Sea. Situated between Britain and Spain and lying commodiously
to the Bay of Biscay, it would have formed a very beneficial connection between the most powerful
parts of the Empire. Its soil, climate, and the manners and dispositions of its inhabitants
are little different from those of Britain. Its ports and harbours are better known from the
concourse of merchants for the purposes of commerce."

Not only the British Isles, but a good deal of the wild North Sea and the low-lying coast on
the opposite side were explored by Roman ships and Roman soldiers. Caesar had crossed the Rhine;
he had heard of a great forest which took a man four months to cross, and in 16 A.D. a Roman
general, Drusus, penetrated into the interior of Germany. Drusus crossed the Rhine near the
coast, made his way across the river Weser, and reached the banks of the Elbe. But the fame
of Drusus rests mainly on his navigation of the German Ocean or North Sea in a Roman fleet.
Near the mouth of the Rhine a thousand ships were quickly built by expert Romans. "Some were
short, with narrow stern and prow and broad in the middle, the easier to endure the shock of
the waves; some had flat bottoms that without damage they might run aground; many were fitted
for carrying horses and provisions, convenient for sails and swift with oars."

The Roman troops were in high spirits as they launched their splendid fleet on the Northern
Ocean and sailed prosperously to the mouth of the Elbe, startling the Frisians into submission.
But no friendliness greeted them on the farther side of the river. The Germans were ready to
defend their land, and further advance was impossible. Returning along the northern coast,
the Romans got a taste of the storms of this northern ocean, of which they were in such complete
ignorance.

"The sea, at first calm," says Tacitus, "resounded with the oars of a thousand ships; but presently
a shower of hail poured down from a black mass of clouds, at the same time storms raging on
all sides in every variety, the billows rolling now here, now there, obstructed the view and
made it impossible to manage the ships. The whole expanse of air and sea was swept by a south-west
wind, which, deriving strength from the mountainous regions of Germany, its deep rivers and
boundless tract of clouded atmosphere, and rendered still harsher by the rigour of the neighbouring
north, tore away the ships, scattered and drove them into the open ocean or upon islands dangerous
from precipitous rocks or hidden sandbanks. Having got a little clear of these, but with great
difficulty, the tide turning and flowing in the same direction as that in which the wind blew,
they were unable to ride at anchor or bale out the water that broke in upon them; horses, beasts
of burthen, baggage, even arms were thrown overboard to lighten the holds of the ships, which
took in water at their sides, and from the waves, too, running over them. Around were either
shores inhabited by enemies, or a sea so vast and unfathomable as to be supposed the limit
of the world and unbounded by lands. Part of the fleet was swallowed up; many were driven upon
remote islands, where the men perished through famine. The galley of Drusus or, as he was hereafter
called, Germanicus, alone reached the mouth of the Weser. Both day and night, amid the rocks
and prominences of the shore, he reproached himself as the author of such overwhelming destruction,
and was hardly restrained by his friends from destroying himself in the same sea. At last,
with the returning tide and a favouring gale, the shattered ships returned, almost all destitute
or with garments spread for sails."

The wreck of the Roman fleet in the North Sea made a deep impression on the Roman capital,
and many a garbled story of the "extreme parts of the world" was circulated throughout the Empire.

Here was new land outside the boundaries of the Empire--country great with possibilities. Pliny,
writer of the Natural History, now arises and endeavours to clear the minds of his countrymen
by some account of these northern regions. Strabo had been dead some fifty years, and the Empire
had grown since his days. But Pliny has news of land beyond the Elbe. He can tell us of Scandinavia,
"an island of unknown extent," of Norway, another island, "the inhabitants of which sailed
as far as Thule," of the Seamen or Swedes who lived in the "northern half of the world."

"It is madness to harass the mind with attempts to measure the world," he asserts, but he proceeds
to tell us the size of the world as accepted by him. "Our part of the earth, floating as it
were in the ocean, which surrounds it, stretching out to the greatest extent from India to
the Pillars at Cadiz, is eight thousand five hundred and sixty-eight miles ... the breadth
from south to north is commonly supposed to be half its length."

But how little was known of the north of Europe at this time is shown by a startling statement
that "certain Indians sailing from India for the purposes of commerce had been driven by tempests
into Germany."

"Thus it appears," concludes Pliny, "that the seas flow completely round the globe and divide
it into two parts."

How Balbus discovered and claimed for the Empire some of the African desert is related by Pliny.
He tells us, too, how another Roman general left the west coast of Africa, marched for ten
days, reached Mt. Atlas, and "in a desert of dark-coloured sand met a river which he supposed
to be the Niger."

The home of the Ethiopians in Africa likewise interested Pliny.

"There can be no doubt that the Ethiopians are scorched by their vicinity to the sun's heat,
and that they are born like persons who have been burned, with beard and hair frizzled, while
in the opposite and frozen parts of the earth there are nations with white skins and long light
hair."

Pliny's geography was the basis of much mediaeval writing, and his knowledge of the course
of the Niger remained unchallenged, till Mungo Park re-discovered it many centuries after.

CHAPTER X

PTOLEMY'S MAPS

And so we reach the days of Ptolemy--the last geographer of the Pagan World. This famous Greek
was born in Egypt, and the great Roman Empire was already showing signs of decay, while Ptolemy
was searching the great Alexandrian library for materials for his book. Alexandria was now
the first commercial city of the world, second only to Rome. She supplied the great population
in the heart of the Empire with Egyptian corn. Ships sailed from Alexandria to every part of
the known world. It was, therefore, a suitable place for Ptolemy to listen to the yarns of
the merchants, to read the works of Homer, Herodotus, Eratosthenes, Strabo, Pliny, and others,
to study and observe, and finally to write.

He begins his great geography with the north-west extremities of the world--the British Isles,
Iverna, and Albion as he calls Ireland and England. But he places Ireland much too far north,
and the shape of Scotland has little resemblance to the original.[2] He realised that there
were lands to the south of Africa, to the east of Africa, and to the north of Europe, all stretching
far away beyond his ken. He agrees with Pliny about the four islands in the neighbourhood of
Scandinavia, and draws the Volga correctly, He realises, too, that the Caspian is an inland
sea, and unconnected with the surrounding ocean.

[Footnote 2: If Ptolemy's longitudes are adjusted, he becomes extraordinarily correct.]

Perhaps the most remarkable part of Ptolemy's geography is that which tells us of the lands
beyond the Ganges. He knows something of the "Golden Chersonese" or Malay Peninsula, something
of China, where "far away towards the north, and bordering on the eastern ocean, there is a
land containing a great city from which silk is exported, both raw and spun and woven into
textures."

The wonder is that Ptolemy did not know more of China, for that land had one of the oldest
civilisations in the world, as wondrous as those of Assyria and Egypt. But China had had little
or no direct intercourse with the West till after the death of Ptolemy. Merchants had passed
between China and India for long centuries, and "the Indians had made journeys in the golden
deserts in troops of one or two thousand, and it is said that they do not return from these
journeys till the third or fourth year." This was the Desert of Gobi, called golden because
it opened the way to wealth.

But perhaps the most interesting part of this great geography, which was to inform the world
for centuries yet to come, was the construction of a series of twenty-six maps and a general
map of the known world.

This was one of the most important maps ever constructed, and forms our frontispiece from mediaeval
copies of the original. The twelve heads blowing sundry winds on to the world's surface are
characteristic of the age. The twenty-six maps are in sections. They are the first maps to
be drawn with lines of latitude and longitude. The measurements are very vague. The lines are
never ruled; they are drawn uncertainly in red; they are neither straight nor regular, though
the spaces between the lines indicate degrees of fifty miles. The maps are crowded with towns,
each carefully walled in by little red squares and drawn by hand. The water is all coloured
a sombre, greeny blue, and the land is washed in a rich yellow brown. A copy can be seen at
the British Museum.

It is only by looking back that we can realise the progress made in earth-knowledge. Ptolemy
wrote just a thousand years after Homer, when the little world round the Mediterranean had
become a great Empire stretching from the British Isles to China.

Already the barbaric hordes which haunted the frontiers of the Roman Empire were breaking across
the ill-defended boundaries, desolating streams were bursting over the civilised world, until
at last the storm broke, the unity of the Empire was ended, commerce broken up, and the darkness
of ignorance spread over the earth.

During this time little in the way of progress was made, and for the next few centuries our
only interest lies in filling up some of the shadowy places of the earth, without extending
its known bounds.

CHAPTER XI

PILGRIM TRAVELLERS

Meanwhile a new inspiration had been given to the world, which affected travelling to no small
extent.

In far-off Roman province of Syria, the Christ had lived, the Christ had died. And His words
were ringing through the land: "Go ye and make disciples of all the nations, preach the gospel
to every creature." Here at once was a new incentive to travel, a definite reason for men to
venture forth into the unknown, to brave dangers, to endure hardship. They must carry their
Master's words "unto the ends of the world." The Roman Empire had brought men under one rule;
they must now be brought to serve one God. So men passed out of Syria; they landed on the islands
in the Mediterranean, they made their way to Asia Minor and across to Greece, until in the
year 60 A.D. we get the graphic account of Paul the traveller, one of the first and most famous
of the missionaries of the first century.

Jerusalem now became, indeed, the world centre. A very stream of pilgrim travellers tramped
to the Holy City from far-away lands to see for themselves the land where the Christ had lived
and died.

The pilgrim age begins with the journey of a woman--the beautiful and learned daughter of the
King of Britain, Helena, mother of the Emperor Constantine. She was a student of divinity and
a devoted Christian. In the year 326 she undertook the difficult journey to Jerusalem, where
she is reported to have discovered the "true cross," which had been buried, with Pilate's inscription
in "Hebrew and Greek and Latin." When the news of her discovery was noised abroad a very rush
of pilgrims took place from every part of the world. Indeed, one pilgrim--his name is unknown--thought
it worth while to write a guide-book for the benefit of his fellow-travellers. His Itinerary
from Bordeaux to Jerusalem is very interesting, being the first Christian guide-book and one
of the earliest travel-documents ever written for the use of travellers. This ancient "Bradshaw"
has been translated into English and throws light on fourth-century travelling. Enthusiastic
indeed must these early pilgrims have been to undertake the long and toilsome journey.

The guide-book takes them, save for crossing the Bosphorus, entirely by land. It leads them
from the "city of Bordeaux, where is the river Garonne in which the ocean ebbs and flows for
one hundred leagues more or less," to Arles, with thirty changes and eleven halts in three
hundred and seventy-two miles. There were milestones along the Roman roads to guide them, and
houses at regular intervals where horses were kept for posting. From Arles the pilgrim goes
north to Avignon, crosses the Alps, and halts at the Italian frontier. Skirting the north of
Italy by Turin, Milan, and Padua, he reaches the Danube at Belgrade, passes through Servia
and Bulgaria and so reaches Constantinople--the great new city of Constantine. "Grand total
from Bordeaux to Constantinople, two thousand two hundred and twenty-one miles, with two hundred
and thirty changes and one hundred and twelve halts."

"From Constantinople," continues the guide-book, "you cross the strait and walk on through
Asia Minor, passing the spot where lies King Hannibal, once King of the Africans." Thus onward
through the long dreary miles to Tarsus, where "was born the Apostle Paul," till Syria is reached
at last.

Then the "Bradshaw" becomes a "Baedeker." Long and detailed accounts are given of the country
through which the pilgrim has to pass. From Caesarea he is led to Jezreel by the spot "where
David slew Goliath," by "Job's country house" to Sichem, "where Joseph is laid," and thence
to Jerusalem. Full accounts follow of the Holy City and Mount Sion, "the little hill of Golgotha
where the Lord was crucified," the Mount of Olives, Jericho, Jordan, Bethlehem, and Hebron.
"Here is a monument of square form built of stone of wondrous beauty," in which lie Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob, Sara, Rebecca, and Leah.

"From Constantinople to Jerusalem is one thousand one hundred and fifty-nine miles, with sixty-nine
changes and fifty-eight halts."

Here the guide-book ends abruptly with a brief summary of distances. Thither then flocked the
pilgrims, some by land and some by sea, men and women from all parts of the world.

"Even the Briton, separated from our world, leaves the setting sun and seeks a place known
to him only by fame and the narrative of the Scriptures."

One of the earliest was Paula of Rome--a weak, fragile woman accustomed to a life of luxury
and ease, but, fired with the enthusiasm of her religion, she resolved to brave the dangers
and hardships of a journey to the East. Her travels were written by St. Jerome.

"When the winter was spent and the sea was open," he writes, "she longed and prayed to sail....
She went down to the harbour, accompanied by her brother, her relatives, her connections and,
more than these, by her children, who strove to surpass the affection of the kindest of mothers.
Soon the sails were swelling in the breeze, and the ship, guided by the oars, gained the open
sea. Little Lexotinus piteously stretched forth his hands from the shore. Rufina, a grown-up
girl, by her tears silently besought her mother to stay until she was married. Yet she herself,
without a tear, turned her eyes heavenward, overcoming her love for her children by her love
for God.... Meanwhile the ship was ploughing the sea--the winds were sluggish and all speed
slow." But the ship passed between Scylla and Charybdis and reached Antioch in safety. From
this spot she followed the guide-book directions until she arrived at Jerusalem. How Paula
and one of her young daughters walked over the rough ground, endured the hardships of desert-life,
and finally lived twenty years at Bethlehem, would take too long to tell. And she was but one
of many.

Sylvia of Aquitaine, travelling at the same time, wrote a strangely interesting account of
her travels. The early part of her manuscript is lost, and we find her first in Arabia. All
was new and strange.

"Meanwhile as we walked we arrived at a certain place, where the mountains between which we
were passing opened themselves out and formed a great valley, very flat and extremely beautiful;
and beyond the valley appeared Sinai, the holy mount of God.... This is the same great and
flat valley in which the children of Israel waited during the days when holy Moses went up
into the Mount of God.... It was late on the Sabbath when we came to the mountain, and, arriving
at a certain monastery, the kindly monks who lived there entertained us, showing us all kindliness."
Sylvia had to ascend the mountain on foot "because the ascent could not be made in a chair,"
but the view over "Egypt and Palestine and the Red Sea and the Mediterranean which leads to
Alexandria, also the boundless territory of the Saracens, we saw below us, hard though it is
to believe, all of which things these holy men pointed out to us."

But we must not follow her to Jerusalem, or to Mesopotamia, where she saw "the great river
Euphrates, rushing down in a torrent like the Rhine, but greater." She reached Constantinople
by the guide-book route, having spent four years in travel, and walked two thousand miles to
the very "limit of the Roman Empire." Her boundless energy is not exhausted yet. "Ladies, my
beloved ones," she writes, "whilst I prepare this account for your pious zeal, it is already
my purpose to go to Asia."

But we must turn away for a moment from the stream of pilgrim travellers wending their weary
way from Britain, France, Spain, and the east to Jerusalem, to follow the travels of St. Patrick
through the wilds of Ireland.

CHAPTER XII

IRISH EXPLORERS

Patrick had been a pilgrim to Rome from the banks of the Clyde, where he lived, and, having
seen the Pope, he had returned to Ireland by sea, landing on the Wicklow coast in the year
432. Hungry and tired after the long voyage, he tried to get some fish from the fishermen,
but they replied by throwing stones at him, and he put out to sea again and headed north. Past
Bray Head, past the Bay of Malahide he sailed, but he could get neither fish nor food till
he reached a spot between the Liffey and the Boyne, where he built his first Christian church.

Now in the fifth century, when light first breaks over Ireland, it breaks over a land torn
by perpetual tribal strife, a land in the chaos of wild heathendom. It was reserved for St.
Patrick to save her from increasing gloom.

Patrick and his companions now sailed on past Louth, by the low-lying shore with long stretches
of sandy flats, on under the shadow of great peaks frowning over the sea. He landed near Downpatrick,
founded another church, and spent the winter in these parts, for the autumn was far advanced.
Spring found him sailing back to the Boyne and attacking the fierce heathen king at Tara, the
capital of Ireland. From Tara five great roads led to different parts of the island. St. Patrick
now made his way through Meath to the very heart of the country, building churches as he went.
Thence he crossed the Shannon, entered the great plain of Roscommon, passed by Mayo, and at
length reached the western sea. He had now been eight years in Ireland, eight laborious years,
climbing hills, wading through waters, camping out by night, building, organising, preaching.
He loved the land on the western sea, little known as yet.

                   "I would choose
    To remain here on a little land,
    After faring around churches and waters.
    Since I am weary, I wish not to go further."

St. Patrick climbed the great peak, afterwards called Croaghpatrick, and on the summit, exposed
to wind and rain, he spent the forty days of Lent. From here he could look down on to one of
the most beautiful bays in Ireland, down on to the hundred little islands in the glancing waters
below, while away to the north and south stretched the rugged coast-line. And he tells us how
the great white birds came and sang to him there. It would take too long to tell how he returned
to Tara and started again with a train of thirteen chariots by the great north-western road
to the spot afterwards known as Downpatrick Head; he passed along the broken coast to the extreme
north where the great ocean surf breaks on the rugged shore, returning again to the Irish capital.
He travelled over a great part of Ireland, founded three hundred and fifty churches, converted
heathen tribes to Christianity and civilisation, and finally died at Armagh in 493. His work
was carried on by St. Columba, a native of Ireland, who, "deciding to go abroad for Christ,"
sailed away with twelve disciples to a low rocky island off the west coast of Scotland, where
he founded the famous monastery of Iona, about 563. Thence he journeyed away to the Highlands,
making his way through rugged and mountainous country that had stayed the warlike Romans long
years before. He even sailed across the stormy northern sea to the Orkney Islands.

Let us picture the Scotland of the sixth century in order to realise those long lonely tramps
of St. Columba and his disciples across the rough mountains, through the dense forests, across
bleak moors and wet bogs, till after dreary wanderings they reached the coast, and in frail
ships boldly faced the wild seas that raged round the northern islands.

"We can see Columba and his disciples journeying on foot, as poor and as barely provided as
were Christ and His disciples, with neither silver nor gold nor brass in their purses, and
over a wilder country and among a wilder people."

These pilgrims tramped to and fro clad in simple tunics over a monkish dress of undyed wool,
bound round the waist by a strong cord, all their worldly goods on their backs and a staff
in their hands. The hermit instinct was growing, and men were sailing away to lonely islands
where God might be better served apart from the haunts of men. Perhaps it was this instinct
that inspired St. Brandon to sail away across the trackless ocean in search of the Island of
Saints reported in the western seas. His voyage suggests the old expedition of Ulysses. A good
deal of it is mythical, some is added at a later date, but it is interesting as being an attempt
to cross the wide Atlantic Ocean across which no man had yet sailed. For seven years St. Brandon
sailed on the unknown sea, discovering unknown islands, until he reached the Island of Saints--the
goal of his desires. And the fact remains that for ten centuries after this an island, known
as Brandon's Isle, was marked on maps somewhere to the west of Ireland, though to the end it
remained as mysterious as the island of Thule.

Here is the old story. Brandon, abbot of a large Irish monastery containing one thousand monks,
sailed off in an "osier boat covered with tanned hides and carefully greased," provisioned
for seven years. After forty days at sea they reached an island with steep sides, where they
took in fresh supplies. Thence the winds carried the ship to another island, where they found
sheep--"every sheep was as great as an ox."

"This is the island of sheep, and here it is ever summer," they were informed by an old islander.

This may have been Madeira. They found other islands in the neighbourhood, one of which was
full of singing-birds, and the passing years found them still tossing to and fro on the unknown
sea, until at last the end came. "And St. Brandon sailed forty days south in full great tempest,"
and another forty days brought the ship right into a bank of fog. But when the fog lifted "they
saw the fairest country eastward that any man might see, it was so clear and bright that it
was a heavenly sight to behold; and all the trees were charged with ripe fruit." And they walked
about the island for forty days and could not find the end. And there was no night there, and
the climate was neither hot nor cold.

"Be ye joyful now," said a voice, "for this is the land ye have sought, and our Lord wills
that you laden your ship with the fruit of this land and hie you hence, for ye may no longer
abide here, but thou shalt sail again into thine own country."

So the monks took all the fruit they could carry, and, weeping that they might stay no longer
in this happy land, they sailed back to Ireland. Hazy, indeed, was the geography of the Atlantic
in the sixth century. Nor can we leave St. Brandon's story without quoting a modern poet, who
believed that the voyage was to the Arctic regions and not in the Atlantic.

   "Saint Brandon sails the Northern Main,
    The brotherhood of saints are glad.
    He greets them once, he sails again:
    So late! Such storms! The saint is mad.
    He heard across the howling seas
    Chime convent bells on wintry nights;
    He saw, on spray-swept Hebrides,
    Twinkle the monastery lights:
    But north, still north, Saint Brandon steered,
    And now no bells, no convents more,
    The hurtling Polar lights are reached,
    The sea without a human shore."

Some three hundred years were to pass away before further discoveries in these quarters revealed
new lands, three hundred years before the great energy of the Vikings brought to light Iceland,
Greenland, and even the coast of America.

CHAPTER XIII

AFTER MOHAMMED

So once more we turn back to the East. Jerusalem is still the centre of the earth. But a change
has passed over the world, which influenced not a little the progress of geography. Mohammed
in the seventh century lived and died in Arabia. "There is but one God, and Mohammed is His
prophet," proclaimed his followers, the Arabs or Saracens as they were called. And just as
men had travelled abroad to preach Christianity to those who knew it not, so now the Mohammedans
set forth to teach the faith of their Lord and Master. But whereas Christianity was taught
by peaceful means, Mohammedanism was carried by the sword. The Roman provinces of Syria and
Egypt had been conquered by the Arabs, and the famous cities of Jerusalem and Alexandria were
filled with teachers of the new faith. The Mohammedans had conquered Spain and were pressing
by Persia towards India.

What deep root their preaching took in these parts is still evident. Still the weary fight
between the two religions continues.

The first traveller of note through this distracted Europe was a Frenchman named Arculf, a
Christian bishop. When he had visited the Holy Land and Egypt his ship was caught in a violent
storm and driven on to the west coast of Scotland. After many adventures Arculf found himself
at the famous convent of Iona, made welcome by an Irish monk Adamnan, who was deeply interested
in Arculf's account of his wanderings, and wrote them down at his dictation, first on waxed
tablets, copied later on to parchment. How tenderly the two monks dwell on all the glories
of Jerusalem. "But in that beautiful place where once the Temple had been, the Saracens now
frequent a four-sided house of prayer, which they have built, rudely constructing it by raising
boards and great beams on some remains of ruins, which house can hold three thousand men at
once." And Arculf draws on the waxed tablet the picture of some church or tomb to make his
narrative clearer to his friend Adamnan.

Perhaps the most interesting part of all the travels is the account of the lofty column that
Arculf describes in the midst of Jerusalem.

"This column," he says, "as it stands in the centre of the heaven, shining straight down from
above, proves that the city of Jerusalem is situated in the middle of the earth."

Arculf's journey aroused great interest among the newly converted Christians of the north,
and Willibald, a high-born Englishman, started off in 721 to explore farther. But the road
through Europe was now full of danger. The followers of Mohammed were strong, and it required
true courage to face the perils of the long journey. Willibald was undaunted, and with his
father and two brothers he sailed from Southampton, crossed to France, sailed up the Seine
to Rouen, and reached Italy. Here the old father died. Willibald and his brothers travelled
on through "the vast lands of Italy, through the depths of the valleys, over the steep brows
of the mountains, over the levels of the plains, climbing on foot the difficult passes of the
Alps, over the icebound and snow-capped summits," till they arrived at Rome. Thence they made
their way to Syria, where they were at once thrown into prison by Mohammedan conquerors. They
were brought before the ruler of the Mohammedan world, or Khalif, whose seat was at Damascus.
He asked whence they came.

"These men come from the western shore, where the sun sets: and we know not of any land beyond
them, but water only," was the answer.

Such was Britain to the Mohammedans. They never got a footing in that country: their Empire
lay to the east, and their capital was even now shifting to Bagdad.

But before turning to their geographical discoveries we must see how Cosmas, the Egyptian merchant-monk,
set the clock back by his quaint theories of the world in the sixth century. Cosmas hailed
from "Alexander's great city." His calling carried him into seas and countries remote from
home. He knew the Mediterranean Sea, the Persian Gulf, and the Red Sea. He had narrowly escaped
shipwreck in the Indian Ocean, which in those days was regarded with terror on account of its
violent currents and dense fogs. As the ship carrying the merchant approached this dread region,
a storm gathered overhead, and flocks of albatross, like birds of ill-omen, hovered about the
masts.

"We were all in alarm," relates Cosmas, "for all the men of experience on board, whether passengers
or sailors, began to say that we were near the ocean and called out to the pilot: 'Steer the
ship to port and make for the gulf, or we shall be swept along by the currents and carried
into the ocean and lost.' For the ocean rushing into the gulf was swelling with billows of
portentous size, while the currents from the gulf were driving the ship into the ocean, and
the outlook was altogether so dismal that we were kept in a state of great alarm."

That he eventually reached India is clear, for he relates strange things concerning Ceylon.
"There is a large oceanic island lying in the Indian Sea," he tells us. "It has a length of
nine hundred miles and it is of the like extent in breadth. There are two kings in the island,
and they are at feud the one with the other. The island, being as it is in a central position,
is much frequented by ships from all parts of India, and from Persia and Ethiopia, and from
the remotest countries, it receives silk, aloes, cloves, and other products ... farther away
is the clove country, then Tzinista (China), which produces silk. Beyond this there is no other
country, for the ocean surrounds it on the east."

Cosmas was the first to realise that China was bounded on the east by the ocean. He tells us
a good story about the "Lord of India," who always went to war with two thousand elephants.
"Once upon a time this king would lay siege to an island city of the Indians, which was on
every side protected by water. A long while he sat down before it, until, what with his elephants,
his horses, and his soldiers, all the water had been drunk up. He then crossed over to the
city dryshod and took it."

But, strange as are the travels and information of Cosmas, still stranger is his Christian
Topography. His commercial travelling done he retired, became a devout Christian monk, and
devoted his leisure time in trying to reconcile all the progress of geographical knowledge
with old Biblical ideas.

He assures us that the world is flat and not round, and that it is surrounded by an immense
wall supporting the firmament. Indeed, if we compare the maps of Cosmas in the sixth century
with those of the Babylonians thousands of years before, there is mighty little difference.
With amazing courage he refutes all the old theories and draws the most astounding maps, which,
nevertheless, are the oldest Christian maps which survive.

CHAPTER XIV

THE VIKINGS SAIL THE NORTHERN SEAS

A more interesting force than the pilgrim travellers now claims our attention, and we turn
to the frozen north, to the wild region at the back of the north wind, for new activity and
discovery. Out of this land of fable and myth, legend and poetry, the fierce inhabitants of
Scandinavia begin to take shape. Tacitus speaks of them as "mighty in fame," Ptolemy as "savage
and clothed in the skins of wild beasts."

From time to time we have glimpses of these folk sailing about in the Baltic Sea. They were
known to the Finns of the north as "sea-rovers." "The sea is their school of war and the storm
their friend; they are sea-wolves that live on the pillage of the world," sang an old Roman
long years ago. The daring spirit of their race had already attracted the attention of Britons
across the seas. The careless glee with which they seized either sword or oar and waged war
with the stormy seas for a scanty livelihood, raiding all the neighbouring coasts, had earned
them the name of Vikings or creek men. Their black-sailed ships stood high out of the water,
prow and stern ending in the head and tail of some strange animal, while their long beards,
their loose shirts, and battleaxe made them conspicuous. "From the fury of the Northmen save
us, Lord," prayed those who had come in contact with these Vikings.

In the ninth century they spring into fame as explorers by the discovery of Iceland. It was
in this wise. The chief of a band of pirates, one Naddod, during a voyage to the Faroe Islands
was driven by a storm upon the eastern coast of an unknown land. Not a soul was to be seen.
He climbed a high mountain covered with snow and took a look round, but though he could see
far and wide, not a human being could he detect. So he named it Snow-land and sailed home to
relate his adventures.

A few years later another Viking, Gardar, bound for the west coast of Scotland, was likewise
blown by a storm on to the coast of Snow-land. He sailed right round and found it to be an
island. Considering that it was unsafe to navigate the icy northern seas in winter, he built
himself a hut on the island, lived there till the spring, and returned home. His account of
the island fired the enthusiasm of an old Viking called Floki, who sailed away, meaning to
take possession of the newly discovered country. At the Faroe Islands he let fly three ravens.
The first returned, the second came back to the ship, the third guided the navigator to the
island which he sought. He met a quantity of drift ice about the northern part of the island
and called it Ice-land, the name it has borne ever since. But amid the Arctic ice he spent
a desolate winter; the island seemed full of lofty mountains covered with eternal snow. His
companions, however, were delighted with the climate and the soil.

"Milk drops from every plant and butter from every twig," they said; "this was a land where
men might live free from the tyranny of kings." Free, indeed, for the island was totally uninhabited.

Iceland soon became a refuge for pirates and other lawless characters. Among these was a young
Viking called Erik the Red. He was too lawless even for Iceland, and, being banished for three
years, he sailed away in 985 in search of new lands. At the end of his three years he returned
and reported that he had discovered land with rich meadows, fine woods, and good fishing, which
he had named Green-land. So glowing was his description that soon a party of men and women,
with household goods and cattle, started forth in twenty-five ships to colonise the new land.
Still the passion for discovery continued, and Erik's son Lief fitted out a vessel to carry
thirty-five men in quest of land already sighted to the west.

It was in the year 1000 that they reached the coast of North America. It was a barren and rocky
shore to which Lief gave the name of Rock-land. Sailing farther, they found a low coast wooded
to its edge, to which they gave the simple name of Woody-land. Two days later an island appeared,
and on the mainland they discovered a river up which they sailed. On low bushes by the banks
of the river they found sweet berries or wild grapes from which a sort of wine was made, so
Lief called the land Vin-land. It is now supposed that Vinland and Woodyland are really Newfoundland
and Labrador on the shores of North America. After this, shipload followed shipload from Iceland
to colonise Vinland. But without success.

So the Viking discoveries in these cold and inhospitable regions were but transitory. The clouds
lifted but for a moment to settle down again over America, till it was rediscovered some five
hundred years later.

Now, while these fierce old Vikings were navigating unknown seas, Alfred the Great was reigning
over England. Among his many and varied interests he was deeply thrilled in the geography of
the world. He was always ready to listen to those who had been on voyages of discovery, and
in his account of the geography of Europe he tells us of a famous old sea captain called Othere,
who had navigated the unknown seas to the north of Europe.

"Othere told his lord, King Alfred, that he dwelt northmost of all Northmen, on the land by
the western sea. He said that the land is very long thence to the north; but it is all waste
save that in a few places here and there Finns reside. He said that he wished to find out how
far the land lay right north, or whether any man dwelt to the north of the waste. Then he went
right north near the land, and he left all the way the waste land on the right and the wide
sea on the left for three days. There was he as far north as the whale-hunters ever go. He
then went yet right north, as far as he could sail in the next three days. After sailing for
another nine days he came to a great river; they turned up into the river, but they durst not
sail beyond it on account of hostility, for the land was all inhabited on the other side. He
had not before met with any inhabited land since he came from his own home, for the land was
uninhabited all the way on his right save by fishermen, hunters, and fowlers, and they were
all Finns, and there was always a wide sea on his left."

And as a trophy of distant lands and a proof of his having reached farthest north, Othere presented
the King with a "snow-white walrus tooth."

But King Alfred wanted his subjects to know more of the world around them, and even in the
midst of his busy life he managed to write a book in Anglo-Saxon, which sums up for us the
world's knowledge some nine hundred years after Ptolemy--nine hundred barren years as far as
much geographical progress was concerned. Alfred does not even allude to Iceland, Greenland,
or Vinland. The news of these discoveries had evidently not reached him. He repeats the old
legend of Thule to the north-west of Ireland, "which is known to few, on account of its very
great distance."

So ends the brief but thrilling discoveries of the Northmen, who knew not fear, and we turn
again to landsmen and the east.

CHAPTER XV

ARAB WAYFARERS

And now we leave the fierce energy of the Northmen westwards and turn to another energy, which
was leading men toward the east, to the lands beyond the Euphrates, to India, across central
Asia, even into far Cathay.

These early travellers to the east were for the most part Arabs. Mohammed had bidden his followers
to spread his teaching far and wide; this teaching had always appealed more to the eastern
than to the western mind. So farther and farther to the east travelled the Arabs, converting
the uncivilised tribes that Christianity had not reached.

What a contrast are these Arabs to the explorers of the vigorous north. They always travelled
by land and not by that sea which was life to the Viking folk. To the Arabs the encircling
ocean was a very "Sea of Darkness"; indeed, the unknown ocean beyond China was called the "Sea
of Pitchy Darkness." Their creed taught that the ocean was boundless, so that ships dared not
venture out of sight of land, for there was no inhabited country beyond, and mariners would
assuredly be lost in mists and fogs. So, while the Vikings tossed fearlessly about the wild
northern seas, the Arab wayfarers rode eastward by well-known caravan tracks, trading and teaching
the ways of Mohammed. Arabic enterprise had pushed on far beyond Ptolemy's world. The Arab
centre lay in the city of Bagdad, the headquarters of the ruler or Khalif of the Mohammedan
world. They had already opened up a considerable trade with the rapidly rising Mongol Empire,
which no European had yet reached.

But as this country was to play a large part in the travels of the near future, it will be
interesting to hear the account given by two Mohammedan friends who journeyed thither in the
year 831, just four hundred years before Marco Polo's famous account. The early part of their
story is missing, and we raise the curtain when they have arrived in the land of China itself,
then a very small empire compared with what it is now.

"The Emperor of China reckons himself next after the King of the Arabs, who they all allow
to be the first and beyond all dispute the most powerful of kings, because he is the head of
a great religion. In this great kingdom of China they tell us there are over two hundred cities;
each city has four gates, at each of which are five trumpets, which the Chinese sound at certain
hours of the day and of the night. There are also within each city ten drums, which they beat
at the same time as a public token of their obedience to the Emperor, as also to signify the
hour of the day and of the night, to which end they also have dials and clocks with weights.

"China is a pleasant and fruitful country; the air is much better than the Indian provinces:
much rain falls in both these countries. In India are many desert tracts, but China is inhabited
and peopled throughout its whole extent. The Chinese are handsomer than the Indians, and come
nearer the Arabs, not only in countenance, but in dress, in their way of riding, in their manners,
and in their ceremonies. They wear long garments and girdles in form of belts. The Chinese
are dressed in silk both winter and summer, and this kind of dress is common to the prince
and the peasant. Their food is rice, which they often eat with a broth which they pour upon
the rice. They have several sorts of fruits, apples, lemons, quinces, figs, grapes, cucumbers,
walnuts, almonds, plums, apricots, and cocoanuts."

Here, too, we get the first mention of tea, which was not introduced into Europe for another
seven hundred years, but which formed a Chinese drink in the ninth century. This Chinese drink
"is a herb or shrub, more bushy than the pomegranate tree an of a more pleasant scent, but
somewhat bitter to the taste. The Chinese boil water and pour it in scalding hot upon this
leaf, and this infusion keeps them from all distempers."

Here, too, we get the first mention of china ware. "They have an excellent kind of earth, wherewith
they make a ware of equal fineness with glass and equally transparent."

There is no time here to tell of all the curious manners and customs related by these two Mohammedans.
One thing struck them as indeed it must strike us to-day. "The Chinese, poor and rich, great
and small, learn to read and write. There are schools in every town for teaching the poor children,
and the masters are maintained at public charge.... The Chinese have a stone ten cubits high
erected in the public squares of their cities, and on this stone are engraved the names of
all the medicines, with the exact price of each; and when the poor stand in need of physic
they go to the treasury where they receive the price each medicine is rated at."

It was out of such travels as these that the famous romance of "Sindbad the Sailor" took shape--a
true story of Arab adventures of the ninth and tenth centuries in a romantic setting. As in
the case of Ulysses, the adventures of many voyages are ascribed to one man and related in
a collection of tales which bears the title of The Arabian Nights.

Of course, Sindbad was a native of Bagdad, the Arab centre of everything at this time, and
of course he journeyed eastwards as did most Mohammedans.

"It occurred to my mind," says Sindbad, "to travel to the countries of other people; then I
arose and collected what I had of effects and apparel and sold them, after which I sold my
buildings and all that my hand possessed and amassed three thousand pieces of silver. So I
embarked in a ship, and with a company of merchants we traversed the sea for many days and
nights. We had passed by island after island and from sea to sea and land to land, and in every
place we sold and bought and exchanged merchandise. We continued our voyage until we arrived
at an island like one of the gardens of Paradise."

Here they anchored and lit fires, when suddenly the master of the ship cried aloud in great
distress: "Oh, ye passengers, come up quickly into the ship, leave your merchandise and flee
for your lives, for this apparent island, upon which ye are, is not really an island, but it
is a great fish that hath become stationary in the midst of the sea, and the sand hath accumulated
upon it and trees have grown upon it, and when ye lighted a fire it felt the heat, and now
it will descend with you into the sea and ye will all be drowned." As he spoke the island moved
and "descended to the bottom of the sea with all that were upon it, and the roaring sea, agitated
with waves, closed over it."

Let Sindbad continue his own story: "I sank in the sea with the rest. But God delivered me
and saved me from drowning and supplied me with a great wooden bowl, and I laid hold upon it
and gat into it and beat the water with my feet as with oars, while the waves sported with
me. I remained so a day and a night, until the bowl came to a stoppage under a high island
whereupon were trees overhanging the sea. So I laid hold upon the branch of a lofty tree and
clung to it until I landed on the island. Then I threw myself upon the island like one dead."

After wandering about he found servants of the King of Borneo, and all sailed together to an
island beyond the Malay Peninsula. And the King of Borneo sent for Sindbad and heaped him with
honours. He gave him costly dress and made him superintendent of the seaport and adviser of
affairs of state. And Sindbad saw many wonders in this far-distant sea. At last "one day I
stood upon the shore of the sea, with a staff in my hand, as was my custom, and lo! a great
vessel approached wherein were many merchants." They unloaded their wares, telling Sindbad
that the owner of their goods, a man from Bagdad, had been drowned and they were selling his
things.

"What was the name of the owner of the goods?" asked Sindbad.

"His name was Sindbad of the Sea."

Then Sindbad cried: "Oh, master, know that I am the owner of the goods and I am Sindbad of
the Sea."

Then there was great rejoicing and Sindbad took leave of this King of Borneo and set sail for
Bagdad--the Abode of Peace.

But the spirit of unrest was upon him and soon he was off again. Indeed, he made seven voyages
in all, but there is only room here to note a few of the most important points in each. This
time he sailed to the coast of Zanzibar, East Africa, and, anchoring on the beautiful island
of Madagascar, amid sweet-smelling flowers, pure rivers, and warbling birds, Sindbad fell asleep.
He awoke to find the ship had sailed away, leaving him without food or drink, and not a human
being was to be seen on the island.

"Then I climbed up into a lofty tree and began to look from it to the right and left, but saw
nothing save sky and water and trees and birds and islands and sands."

At last he found an enormous bird. Unwinding his turban, he twisted it into a rope and, tying
one end round his wrist, tied the other to one of the bird's great feet. Up flew the giant
bird high into the sky and Sindbad with it, descending somewhere in India in the Valley of
Diamonds. This bird was afterwards identified as an enormous eagle.

"And I arose and walked in that valley," says Sindbad, "and I beheld its ground to be composed
of diamonds, with which they perforate minerals and jewels, porcelain, and the onyx, and it
is a stone so hard that neither iron nor rock have any effect upon it. All that valley was
likewise occupied by serpents and venomous snakes."

Here Sindbad found the camphor trees, "under each of which trees a hundred men might shade
themselves." From these trees flowed liquid camphor. "In this island, too, is a kind of wild
beast, called rhinoceros--it is a huge beast with a single horn, thick, in the middle of its
head, and it lifteth the great elephant upon its horn."

Thus, after collecting heaps of diamonds, Sindbad returned to Bagdad--a rich man.

Again his soul yearns for travel. This time he starts for China, but his ship is driven out
of its course and cast on the Island of Apes, probably Sumatra. These apes, "the most hideous
of beasts, covered with hair like black felt," surrounded the ship. They climbed up the cables
and severed them with their teeth to Sindbad's great alarm. He escaped to the neighbouring
islands known as the Clove Islands, and again reached Bagdad safely. Again and yet again he
starts forth on fresh adventures. Now he is sailing on the seas beyond Ceylon, now his ship
is being pursued by a giant roc whose young have been killed and eaten by Sindbad. Sindbad
as usual escapes upon a plank, and sails to an island, where he meets the "Old Man of the Sea,"
probably a huge ape from Borneo. On he passed to the "Island of Apes," where, every night,
the people who reside in it go forth from the doors of the city that open upon the sea in their
fear of the apes lest they should come down upon them in the night from the mountains. After
this we find Sindbad trading in pepper on the Coromandel coast of modern India and discovering
a wealth of pearls by the seashore of Ceylon. But at last he grew tired of seafaring, which
was never congenial to Arabs.

   "Hateful was the dark blue sky,
    Vaulted o'er the dark blue sea;
    Sore task to heart, worn out by many wars;
    And eyes grown dim with gazing on the pilot stars."

So he leaves private adventuring alone and is appointed by the Khalif of Bagdad to convey a
letter and present to the Indian prince of Ceylon--an expedition that lasts him twenty-seven
years. The presents were magnificent. They included a horse worth ten thousand pieces of gold,
with its saddle adorned with gold set with jewels, a book, a splendid dress, and some beautiful
white Egyptian cloth, Greek carpets, and a crystal cup. Having duly delivered these gifts,
he took his leave, meaning to return to his own country. But the usual adventures befell him.
This time his ship was surrounded by a number of boats on board of which were men like little
devils with swords and daggers. These attacked the ship, captured Sindbad, and sold him to
a rich man as a slave. He set him to shoot elephants from a tree with bows and arrows. At last,
after many other adventures and having made seven long voyages, poor Sindbad reached his home.

CHAPTER XVI

TRAVELLERS TO THE EAST

But if the Sindbad saga is based on the stories of Mohammedan travellers and sum up Arab adventure
by sea in the tenth century, we must turn to another Arab--Massoudy by name--for land travel
of the same period. Massoudy left his home at Bagdad very young and seems to have penetrated
into every Mohammedan country from Spain to farther India. In his famous Meadows of Gold, with
its one hundred and thirty-two chapters, dedicated to "the most illustrious Kings," he describes
the various lands through which he has travelled, giving us at the same time a good deal of
incorrect information about lands he has never seen.

   "I have gone so far towards the setting sun
    That I have lost all remembrance of the east,
    And my course has taken me so far towards the rising sun
    That I have forgotten the very name of west."

One cannot but look with admiration on the energetic Arab traveller, when one remembers the
labour of travel even in the tenth century. There were the long, hot rides through central
Asia, under a burning sun, the ascent of unknown mountains, the crossing of unbridged rivers.
From his lengthy work we will only extract a few details. Though he had "gone so far toward
the setting sun," his knowledge of the West was very limited, and while Vikings tossed on the
Atlantic westwards, Massoudy tells us that it is "impossible to navigate beyond the Pillars
of Hercules, for no vessel sails on that sea; it is without cultivation or inhabitant, and
its end, like its depth, is unknown." Such was the "Green Sea of Darkness" as it was called
by the Arabs. Massoudy is more at home when he journeys towards the rising sun to the East,
but his descriptions of China, the "Flowery Land," the "Celestial Country," were to be excelled
by others.

We must pass over Edrisi, who in 1153 wrote on "The going abroad of a curious Man to explore
all the Wonders of the World," which wonders he explored very imperfectly, though he has left
us a map of the world, which may be seen to-day at the Bodleian Library at Oxford.

But we cannot pass over Benjamin of Tudela in so few words. "Our Benjamin" he is called by
Pinkerton, who in the eighteenth century made a wonderful collection of voyages and travels
of all ages. "Our Benjamin" was a Jew hailing from Tudela in Spain, and he started forth on
his travels with a view to ascertaining the condition and numbers of Jews living in the midst
of the great Mohammedan Empire. Benjamin made his way in the year 1160 to the "exceeding great
city" of Constantinople, which "hath none to compare with it except Bagdad--the mighty city
of the Arabs." With the great temple of St. Sophia and its pillars of gold and silver, he was
immensely struck. In wrapt admiration he gazed at the Emperor's palace with its walls of beaten
gold, its hanging crown suspended over the Imperial throne, blazing with precious stones, so
splendid that the hall needed no other light. No less striking were the crimson embroidered
garments worn by the Greeks, who rode to and from the city like princes on horseback. Benjamin
turns sadly to the Jewish quarter. No Jew might ride on horseback here. All were treated as
objects of contempt; they were herded together, often beaten in the streets.

From the wealth and luxury of Constantinople Benjamin makes his way to Syria. At Jerusalem
he finds some two hundred Jews commanding the dyeing trade. And here we must remind ourselves
that the second crusade was over and the third had not yet taken place, that Jerusalem, the
City of Peace, had been in the hands of the Mohammedans or Saracens till 1099, when it fell
into the hands of the Crusaders. From Jerusalem, by way of Damascus, Benjamin entered Persia,
and he gives us an interesting account of Bagdad and its Khalifs. The Khalif was the head of
the Mohammedans in the same way that the Pope was the head of the Christians. "He was," says
"Our Benjamin," "a very dignified personage, friendly towards the Jews, a kind-hearted man,
but never to be seen." Pilgrims from distant lands, passing through Bagdad on their way to
Mecca, prayed to be allowed to see "the brightness of his face," but they were only allowed
to kiss one end of his garment. Now, although Benjamin describes the journey from Bagdad to
China, it is very doubtful if he ever got to China himself, so we will leave him delighting
in the glories of Bagdad, with its palm trees, its gardens and orchards, rejoicing in the statistics
of Jews, and turn to the adventures of one, Carpini, who really did reach Tartary.

This Carpini, or Friar John, was a Franciscan who was chosen by the Pope to go to the Great
Khan of the Mongol Empire, which was threatening to overrun Christendom. On 16th April 1245,
Friar John left the cloister for the unknown tract of country by which he had to pass into
China. By way of Bohemia he passed into Russia, and, having annexed Brother Benedict in Poland
and Brother Stephen in Bohemia, together with a guide, Carpini made his way eastwards. It was
mid-winter; the travellers had to ride on Tartar horses, "for they alone could find grass under
the snow, or live, as animals must in Tartary, without hay or straw." Sometimes Friar John
fell so ill that he had to be placed in a cart and carried through the deep snow.

It was Easter 1246, just a year after their start, that Friar John and his companions began
the last section of their journey beyond the Volga, and "most tearfully we set out," not knowing
whether it was "for life or for death." So thin had they all become that not one of them could
ride. Still they toiled on, till one July day they entered Mongolia and found the headquarters
of the Great Khan about half a day's journey from Karakorum. They arrived in time to witness
the enthronement of the new Khan in August. Here were crowds of ambassadors from Russia and
Persia as well as from outlying parts of the growing Mongol Empire. These were laden with gifts--indeed,
there were no less than five hundred crates full of silks, satins, brocades, fur, gold embroidery.
Friar John and his companions had no gifts to offer save the letter from the Pope.

Impressive, indeed, in the eyes of the once cloistered friar must have been this first sight
of Eastern splendour. High on a neighbouring hill stood the Khan's tent, resting on pillars
plated with gold, top and sides covered with silk brocades, while the great ceremony took place.
But the men of the West were not welcomed by the new Emperor of the East. It was supposed that
he intended shortly to unfurl his Standard against the whole of the Western world, and in November
Friar John and his companions found themselves formally dismissed with a missive from the Great
Khan to the Pope, signed and sealed by the Khan himself.

The return journey was even more trying; winter was coming on, and for nearly seven months
the Pope's faithful envoys struggled on across the endless open plains of Asia towards Russia,
resting their eyes on vast expanses of snow. At last they reached home, and Friar John wrote
his Book of the Tartars, in which he informs us that Mongolia is in the east part of the world
and that Cathay is "a country in the east of Asia." To the south-west of Mongolia he heard
of a vast desert, where lived certain wild men unable to speak and with no joints in their
legs. These occupy themselves in making felt out of camel's hair for garments to protect them
from the weather.

Again Carpini tells us about that mythical character figuring in the travel books of this time--Prester
John. "The Mongol army," he says, "marched against the Christians dwelling in the greater India,
and the king of that country, known by the name of Prester John, came forth with his army to
meet them. This Prester John caused a number of hollow copper figures to be made, resembling
men, which were stuffed with combustibles and set upon horses, each having a man behind on
the horse, with a pair of bellows to stir up the fire. At the first onset of the battle these
mounted figures were sent forward to the charge; the men who rode behind them set fire to the
combustibles and then strongly blew with the bellows; immediately the Mongol horses and men
were burnt with wild-fire and the air was darkened with smoke."

We shall hear of Prester John again. For within a few years of the return of Friar John, another
Franciscan friar, William de Rubruquis, was sent forth, this time by the French king, Louis,
to carry letters to the Great Khan begging him to embrace Christianity and acknowledge the
supremacy of the Pope. William and his chosen companions had a painful and difficult journey
of some months before they reached the camps on the Volga of one of the great Mongol lords.
Indeed, "if it had not been for the grace of God and the biscuit which we brought with us,
we had surely perished," remarks the pious friar in the history of his adventures. Never once
did they enjoy the shelter of a house or tent, but passed the nights in the open air in a cart.
At last they were ordered to appear at the Court of the great ruler with all their books and
vestments.

"We were commanded to array ourselves in our sacred vestments to appear before the prince.
Putting on, therefore, our most precious ornaments, I took a cushion in my arms, together with
the Bible I had from the King of France and the beautiful Psalter which the Queen bestowed
upon me: my companion at the same time carried the missal and a crucifix; and the clerk, clothed
in his surplice, bore a censer in his hand. In this order we presented ourselves ... singing
the Salve Regina." It is a strange picture this--the European friars, in all the vestments
of their religion, standing before the Eastern prince of this far-off country. They would fain
have carried home news of his conversion, but they were told in angry tones that the prince
was "not a Christian, but a Mongol."

They were dismissed with orders to visit the Great Khan at Karakorum. Resuming their journey
early in August, the messengers did not arrive at the Court of the Great Khan till the day
after Christmas. They were miserably housed in a tiny hut with scarcely room for their beds
and baggage. The cold was intense. The bare feet of the friars caused great astonishment to
the crowds of onlookers, who stared at the strange figures as though they had been monsters.
However, they could not keep their feet bare long, for very soon Rubruquis found that his toes
were frozen.

Chanting in Latin the hymn of the Nativity, the visitors were at last admitted to the Imperial
tent, hung about with cloth of gold, where they found the Khan. He was seated on a couch--a
"little man of moderate height, aged about forty-five, and dressed in a skin spotted and glossy
like a seal." The Mongol Emperor asked numerous questions about the kingdom of France and the
possibility of conquering it, to the righteous indignation of the friars. They stayed in the
country till the end of May, when they were dismissed, having failed in their mission, but
having gained a good deal of information about the great Mongol Empire and its somewhat mysterious
ruler.

But while the kingdoms in Europe trembled before the growing expansion of the Mongol Empire
and the dangers of Tartar hordes, the merchants of Venice rejoiced in the new markets which
were opening for them in the East.

CHAPTER XVII

MARCO POLO

Now Venice at this time was full of enterprising merchants--merchants such as we hear of in
Shakspere's Merchant of Venice. Among these were two Venetians, the brothers Polo. Rumours
had reached them of the wealth of the mysterious land of Cathay, of the Great Khan, of Europeans
making their way, as we have seen, through barren wildernesses, across burning deserts in the
face of hardships indescribable, to open up a highway to the Far East.

So off started Maffio and Niccolo Polo on a trading enterprise, and, having crossed the Mediterranean,
came "with a fair wind and the blessing of God" to Constantinople, where they disposed of a
large quantity of their merchandise. Having made some money, they directed their way to Bokhara,
where they fell in with a Tartar nobleman, who persuaded them to accompany him to the Court
of the Great Khan himself. Ready for adventure, they agreed, and he led them in a north-easterly
direction; now they were delayed by heavy snows, now by the swelling of unbridged rivers, so
that it was a year before they reached Pekin, which they considered was the extremity of the
East. They were courteously received by the Great Khan, who questioned them closely about their
own land, to which they replied in the Tartar language which they had learnt on the way.

Now since the days of Friar John there was a new Khan named Kublai, who wished to send messengers
to the Pope to beg him to send a hundred wise men to teach the Chinese Christianity. He chose
the Polo brothers as his envoys to the Pope, and accordingly they started off to fulfil his
behests. After an absence of fifteen years they again reached Venice. The very year they had
left home Niccolo's wife had died, and his boy, afterwards to become the famous traveller,
Marco Polo, had been born. The boy was now fifteen.

The stories told by his father and uncle of the Far East and the Court of the greatest Emperor
on earth filled the boy with enthusiasm, and when in 1271 the brothers Polo set out for their
second journey to China, not only were they accompanied by the young Marco, but also by two
preaching friars to teach the Christian faith to Kublai Khan.

Their journey lay through Armenia, through the old city of Nineveh to Bagdad, where the last
Khalif had been butchered by the Tartars. Entering Persia as traders, the Polo family passed
on to Ormuz, hoping to take ship from here to China. But, for some unknown reason, this was
impossible, and the travellers made their way north-eastwards to the country about the sources
of the river Oxus. Here young Marco fell sick of a low fever, and for a whole year they could
not proceed. Resuming their journey at last "in high spirits," they crossed the great highlands
of the Pamirs, known as the "roof of the world," and, descending on Khotan, found themselves
face to face with the great Gobi Desert. For thirty days they journeyed over the sandy wastes
of the silent wilderness, till they came to a city in the province of Tangut, where they were
met by messengers from the Khan, who had heard of their approach. But it was not till May 1275
that they actually reached the Court of Kublai Khan after their tremendous journey of "one
thousand days." The preaching friars had long since turned homewards, alarmed at the dangers
of the way, so only the three stout-hearted Polos were left to deliver the Pope's message to
the ruler of the Mongol Empire.

"The lord of all the earth," as he was called by his people, received them very warmly. He
inquired at once who was the young man with them.

"My lord," replied Niccolo, "he is my son and your servant."

"Then," said the Khan, "he is welcome. I am much pleased with him."

So the three Venetians abode at the Court of Kublai Khan.

So the three Venetians abode at the Court of the Chinese Emperor for no less than seventeen
years. Young Marco displayed so great intelligence that he was sent on a mission for the Khan
some six months' journey distant; and so well did he describe the things he had seen and the
lands through which he had passed, that the Khan heaped on him honours and riches. Let us hear
what Marco says of his lord and master.

"The Great Khan, lord of lords, named Kublai, is of middle stature, neither too full nor too
short: he has a beautiful fresh complexion, his colour is fair, his eyes dark."

The capital of the Empire, Pekin, two days' journey from the sea, and the residence of the
Court during the months of December, January, and February, called out the unbounded enthusiasm
of the Polos. The city, two days' journey from the ocean, in the extreme north-east of Cathay,
had been newly rebuilt in a regular square, six miles on each side, surrounded by walls of
earth and having twelve gates.

"The streets are so broad and so straight," says Marco, "that from one gate another is visible.
It contains many beautiful houses and palaces, and a very large one in the midst, containing
a steeple with a large bell which at night sounds three times, after which no man must leave
the city. At each gate a thousand men keep guard, not from dread of any enemy, but in reverence
of the monarch who dwells within it, and to prevent injury by robbers."

This square form of Pekin, the great breadth of the straight streets, the closing of the gates
by sound of a bell--the largest in the world--is noted by all travellers to this far-eastern
city of Cathay.

But greater even than Pekin was the city of Kin-sai (Hang-tcheou-fou), the City of Heaven,
in the south of China. It had but lately fallen into the hands of Kublai Khan.

"And now I will tell you all its nobleness," says Marco, "for without doubt it is the largest
city in the world. The city is one hundred miles in circumference and has twelve thousand stone
bridges, and beneath the greater part of these a large ship might pass. And you need not wonder
there are so many bridges, because the city is wholly on the water and surrounded by it like
Venice. The merchants are so numerous and so rich that their wealth can neither be told nor
believed. They and their ladies do nothing with their own hands, but live as delicately as
if they were kings. These females also are of most angelic beauty, and live in the most elegant
manner. The people are idolaters, subject to the Great Khan, and use paper money. They eat
the flesh of dogs and other beasts, such as no Christian would touch for the world. In this
city, too, are four thousand baths, in which the citizens, both men and women, take great delight
and frequently resort thither, because they keep their persons very cleanly. They are the largest
and most beautiful baths in the world, insomuch that one hundred of either sex may bathe in
them at once. Twenty-five miles from thence is the ocean, and there is a city (Ning-po) which
has a very fine port, with large ships and much merchandise of immense value from India and
other quarters."

But though Marco revels in the description of wonderful cities, he is continually leading us
back to the Great Khan himself. His festivals were splendid. The tables were arranged so that
the Emperor sat higher than all the others, always with his face to the south. His sons and
daughters were placed so that their heads were on a level with his feet. Some forty thousand
people feast on these occasions, but the Khan himself is served only by his great barons, their
mouths wrapped in rich towels embroidered in gold and silver, that their breath might not blow
upon the plates. His presents were on a colossal scale; it was no rare occurrence for him to
receive five thousand camels, one hundred thousand beautiful horses, and five thousand elephants
covered with cloth of gold and silver.

"And now I will relate a wonderful thing," says Marco. "A large lion is led into his presence,
which, as soon as it sees him, drops down and makes a sign of deep humility, owning him its
lord and moving about without any chain."

His kingdom was ruled by twelve barons all living at Pekin. His provinces numbered thirty-four,
hence their method of communication was very complete.

"Messengers are sent to divers provinces," says Marco, "and on all the roads they find at every
twenty-five miles a post, where the messengers are received. At each is a large edifice containing
a bed covered with silk and everything useful and convenient for a traveller ... here, too,
they find full four hundred horses, whom the prince has ordered to be always in waiting to
convey them along the principal roads.... Thus they go through the provinces, finding everywhere
inns and horses for their reception. Moreover, in the intervals between these stations, at
every three miles are erected villages of about forty houses inhabited by foot-runners also
employed on these dispatches. They wear large girdles set round with bells, which are heard
at a great distance. Receiving a letter or packet, one runs full speed to the next village,
when his approach being announced by bells, another is ready to start and proceed to the next,
and so on. By these pedestrian messengers the Khan receives news in one day and night from
places ten days' journey distant; in two days from those twenty off, and in ten from those
a hundred days' journey distant. Thus he sends his messengers through all his kingdoms and
provinces to know if any of his subjects have had their crops injured through bad weather;
and, if any such injury has happened, he does not exact from them any tribute for that season--nay,
he gives them corn out of his own stores to subsist on."

This first European account of China is all so delightful that it is difficult to know where
to stop. The mention of coal is interesting. "Throughout the whole province of Cathay," says
Marco, "are a kind of black stones cut from the mountains in veins, which burn like logs. They
maintain the fire better than wood. If you put them on in the evening they will preserve it
the whole night, and it will be found burning in the morning. Throughout the whole of Cathay
this fuel is used. They have also wood, but the stones are much less expensive."

Neither can we pass over Marco's account of the wonderful stone bridge with its twenty-four
arches of pure marble across the broad river, "the most magnificent object in the whole world,"
across which ten horsemen could ride abreast, or the Yellow River (Hoang-ho), "so large and
broad that it cannot be crossed by a bridge, and flows on even to the ocean," or the wealth
of mulberry trees throughout the land, on which lived the silkworms that have made China so
famous for her silk.

Then there are the people famous for their manufacture of fine porcelain ware. "Great quantities
of porcelain earth were here collected into heaps and in this way exposed to the action of
the atmosphere for some forty years, during which time it was never disturbed. By this process
it became refined and fitted for manufacture." Such is Marco's only allusion to china ware.
With regard to tea he is entirely silent.

But he is the first European to tell us about the islands of Japan, fifteen hundred miles from
the coast of China, now first discovered to the geographers of the West.

"Zipangu," says Marco, "is an island situated at a distance from the mainland. The people are
fair and civilised in their manners--they possess precious metals in extraordinary abundance.
The people are white, of gentle manners, idolaters in religion under a king of their own. These
folk were attacked by the fleet of Kublai Khan in 1264 for their gold, for the King's house,
windows, and floors were covered with it, but the King allowed no exportation of it."

Thus Marco Polo records in dim outline the existence of land beyond that ever dreamed of by
Europeans--indeed, denied by Ptolemy and other geographers of the West. In the course of his
service under Kublai Khan he opened up the eight provinces of Tibet, the whole of south-east
Asia from Canton to Bengal, and the archipelago of farther India. He tells us, too, of Tibet,
that wide country "vanquished and wasted by the Khan for the space of twenty days' journey"--a
great wilderness wanting people, but overrun by wild beasts. Here were great Tibetan dogs as
large as asses. Still on duty for Kublai Khan, Marco reached Bengal, "which borders upon India."
But he was glad enough to return to his adopted Chinese home, "the richest and most famous
country of all the East."

At last the Polo family wearied of Court honours, and they were anxious to return to their
own people at Venice. However, the Khan was very unwilling to let them go. One day their chance
came. The Persian ruler was anxious to marry a princess of the house of Kublai Khan, and it
was decided to send the lady by sea under the protection of the trusted Polos, rather than
to allow her to undergo the hardships of an overland journey from China to Persia.

So in the year 1292 they bade farewell to the great Kublai Khan, and with the little princess
of seventeen and her suite they set sail with an escort of fourteen ships for India. Passing
many islands "with gold and much trade," after three months at sea they reached Java, at this
time supposed to be the greatest island in the world, above three thousand miles round. At
Sumatra they were detained five months by stress of weather, till at last they reached the
Bay of Bengal. Sailing on a thousand miles westwards, they reached Ceylon--"the finest island
in the world," remarks Marco. It was not till two years after their start and the loss of six
hundred sailors that they arrived at their destination, only to find that the ruler of Persia
was dead. However, they gave the little bride to his son and passed on by Constantinople to
Venice, where they arrived in 1295.

And now follows a strange sequel to the story. After their long absence, and in their travel-stained
garments, their friends and relations could not recognise them, and in vain did they declare
that they were indeed the Polos--father, son, and uncle--who had left Venice twenty-four long
years ago. It was no use; no one believed their story. So this is what they did. They arranged
for a great banquet to be held, to which they invited all their relations and friends. This
they attended in robes of crimson satin. Then suddenly Marco rose from the table and, going
out of the room, returned with the three coarse, travel-stained garments. They ripped open
seams, tore out the lining, and a quantity of precious stones, rubies, sapphires, diamonds,
and emeralds poured forth. The company were filled with wonder, and when the story spread all
the people of Venice came forth to do honour to their famous fellow-countrymen.

Marco was surnamed Marco of the Millions, and never tired of telling the wonderful stories
of Kublai Khan, the great Emperor who combined the "rude magnificence of the desert with the
pomp and elegance of the most civilised empire in the Old World."

CHAPTER XVIII

THE END OF MEDIAEVAL EXPLORATION

The two names of Ibn Batuta and Sir John Mandeville now conclude our mediaeval period of travel
to the Eastward. Both the Arab and the Englishman date their travels between the years 1325
and 1355; but while Ibn Batuta, the traveller from Tangiers, adds very valuable information
to our geographical knowledge, we have to lay the travel volumes of Sir John Mandeville aside
and acknowledge sadly that his book is made up of borrowed experiences, that he has wantonly
added fiction to fact, and distorted even the travel stories told by other travellers. And
yet, strange to say, while the work of Ibn Batuta remains entirely disregarded, the delightful
work of the Englishman is still read vigorously to-day and translated into nearly every European
language. In it we read strange stories of Prester John, "the great Emperor of India, who is
served by seven kings, seventy-two dukes, and three hundred and sixty earls"; he speaks of
the "isle of Cathay": he repeats the legend of the island near Java on which Adam and Eve wept
for one hundred years after they had been driven from Paradise; he speaks of giants thirty
feet high, and of Pigmies who came dancing to see him.

We turn to the Arab traveller for a solid document, which rings more true, and we cannot doubt
his accounts of shipwreck and hardships encountered by the way. Ibn Batuta left Tangiers in
the year 1324 at the early age of twenty-one on a pilgrimage to Mecca. He made his way across
the north of Africa to Alexandria. Here history relates he met a learned and pious man named Imam.

"I perceive," said Imam, "that you are fond of visiting distant countries?"

"That is so," answered Ibn Batuta.

"Then you must visit my brother in India, my brother in Persia, and my brother in China, and
when you see them present my compliments to them."

Ibn Batuta left Alexandria with a resolve to visit these three persons, and indeed, wonderful
to say, he found them all three and presented to them their brother's compliments.

He reached Mecca and remained there for three years, after which he voyaged down the Red Sea
to Aden, a port of much trade. Coasting along the east coast of Africa, he reached Mombasa,
from which port, so soon to fall into the hands of the Portuguese, he sailed to Ormuz, a "city
on the seashore," at the entrance to the Persian Gulf. Here he tells us of the head of a fish
"that might be compared to a hill: its eyes were like two doors, so that people could go in
at one eye and out at the other." Crossing central Arabia and the Black Sea, he found himself
for the first time in a Christian city, and was much dismayed at all the bells ringing. He
was anxious to go north through Russia to the Land of Darkness, of which he had heard such
wonderful tales. It was a land where there were neither trees, nor stones, nor houses, where
dogs with nails in their feet drew little sledges across the ice. Instead he went to Constantinople,
arriving at sunset when the bells were ringing so loud "that the very horizon shook with the
noise." Ibn was presented to the Emperor as a remarkable traveller, and a letter of safe conduct
was given to him.

He then made his way through Bokhara and Herat, Kandahar and Kabul, over the Hindu Koosh and
across the Indus to Delhi, "the greatest city in the world." But at this time it was a howling
wilderness, as the inhabitants had fled from the cruelty of the Turkish Emperor. Into his presence
our traveller was now called and graciously received.

"The lord of the world appoints you to the office of judge in Delhi," said the Emperor; "he
gives you a dress of honour with a saddled horse and a large yearly salary."

Ibn held this office for eight years, till one day the Emperor called him and said: "I wish
to send you as ambassador to the Emperor of China, for I know you are fond of travelling in
foreign countries."

The Emperor of China had sent presents of great value to the Emperor of India, who was now
anxious to return the compliment. Quaint, indeed, were the gifts from India to China. There
were one hundred high-bred horses, one hundred dancing girls, one hundred pieces of cotton
stuff, also silk and wool, some black, some white, blue-green or blue. There were swords of
state and golden candlesticks, silver basins, brocade dresses, and gloves embroidered with
pearls. But so many adventures did Ibn Batuta have on his way to China that it is certain that
none of these things ever reached that country, for eighty miles from Delhi the cavalcade was
attacked and Ibn was robbed of all he had. For days he wandered alone in a forest, living on
leaves, till he was rescued more dead than alive, and carried back to Delhi. The second start
was also unfortunate. By a circuitous route he made his way to Calicut on the Malabar coast,
where he made a stay of three months till the monsoons should permit him to take ship for China.
The harbour of Calicut was full of great Chinese ships called junks. These junks struck him
as unlike anything he had seen before. "The sails are made of cane reed woven together like
a mat, which, when they put into port, they leave standing in the wind. In some of these vessels
there will be a thousand men, sailors and soldiers. Built in the ports of China only, they
are rowed with large oars, which may be compared to great masts. On board are wooden houses
in which the higher officials reside with their wives."

The time of the voyage came; thirteen huge junks were taken, and the imperial presents were
embarked. All was ready for a start on the morrow. Ibn stayed on shore praying in the mosque
till starting-time. That night a violent hurricane arose and most of the ships in the harbour
were destroyed. Treasure, crew, and officers all perished, and Ibn was left alone and almost
penniless. He feared to return to Delhi, so he took ship, which landed him on one of a group
of a thousand islands, which Ibn calls "one of the wonders of the world." The chief island
was governed by a woman. Here he was made a judge, and soon became a great personage. But after
a time he grew restless and set sail for Sumatra. Here at the court of the king, who was a
zealous disciple of Mohammed, Ibn met with a kind reception, and after a fortnight, provided
with provisions, the "restless Mohammedan" again voyaged northwards into the "Calm Sea," or
the Pacific as we call it now. It was so still, "disturbed by neither wind nor waves," that
the ship had to be towed by a smaller ship till they reached China.

"This is a vast country," writes Ibn, "and it abounds in all sorts of good things--fruit, corn,
gold, and silver. It is traversed by a great river--the Waters of Life--which runs through
the heart of China for a distance of six months' journey. It is bordered with villages, cultivated
plains, orchards, and markets, just like the Nile in Egypt."

Ibn gives an amusing account of the Chinese poultry. "The cocks and hens are bigger than our
geese. I one day bought a hen," he says, "which I wanted to boil, but one pot would not hold
it and I was obliged to take two. As for the cocks in China, they are as big as ostriches."

"'Pooh,' cried an owner of Chinese fowls, 'there are cocks in China much bigger than that,'
and I found he had said no more than the truth."

"Silk is very plentiful, for the worms which produce it require little attention. They have
silk in such abundance that it is used for clothing even by poor monks and beggars. The people
of China do not use gold and silver coin in their commercial dealings. Their buying and selling
is carried on by means of pieces of paper about the size of the palm of the hand, carrying
the seal of the Emperor." The Arab traveller has much to say about the superb painting of China.
They study and paint every stranger that visits their country, and the portrait thus taken
is exposed on the city wall. Thus, should a stranger do anything to make flight necessary,
his portrait would be sent out into every province and he would soon be discovered.

"China is the safest as well as the pleasantest of all the regions on the earth for a traveller.
You may travel the whole nine months' journey to which the Empire extends without the slightest
cause to fear, even if you have treasure in your charge. But it afforded me no pleasure. On
the contrary, my spirit was sorely troubled within me to see how Paganism had the upper hand."

Troubles now broke out among the Khan's family, which led to civil wars and the death of the
Great Khan. He was buried with great pomp. A deep chamber was dug in the earth, into which
a beautiful couch was placed, on which was laid the dead Khan with his arms and all his rich
apparel, the earth over him being heaped to the height of a large hill.

Batuta now hurried from the country, took a junk to Sumatra, thence to Calicut and by Ormuz
home to Tangier, where he arrived in 1348. He had done what he set forth to do. He had visited
the three brothers of Imam in Persia, India, and China. In addition he had travelled for twenty-four
years and accomplished in all about seventy-five thousand miles.

With him the history of mediaeval exploration would seem to end, for within eighty years of
his death the modern epoch opens with the energies and enthusiasm of Prince Henry of Portugal.

For the last few centuries we have found all travel undertaken more or less as a religious crusade.

So far during the last centuries, travel had been for the most part by land. Few discoveries
had been made by sea. Voyages were too difficult and dangerous. The Phoenicians had ventured
far with intrepid courage. The Vikings had tossed fearlessly over their stormy northern seas
to the yet unknown land of America, but this was long ago. Throughout the Middle Ages hardly
a sail was to be seen on the vast Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, no ships ventured on what was
held to be the Sea of Darkness, no man was emboldened to risk life and money on the unknown
waters beyond his own safe home.

CHAPTER XIX

MEDIAEVAL MAPS

We cannot pass from the subject of mediaeval exploration without a word on the really delightful,
if ignorant, maps of the period, for they illustrate better than any description the state
of geography at this time. The Ptolemy map, summing up all the Greek and Roman learning, with
its longitudes and latitudes, with its shaped continents and its many towns and rivers, "indicates
the high-water mark of a tide that was soon to ebb."

With the decline of the Roman Empire and the coming of Christianity we get a new spirit inspiring
our mediaeval maps, in which Jerusalem, hitherto totally obscure, dominates the whole situation.

The Christian Topography of Cosmas in the sixth century sets a new model. Figures blowing trumpets
representing the winds still blow on to the world, as they did in the days of Ptolemy, but
the earth is once more flat and it is again surrounded by the ocean stream. Round this ocean
stream, according to Cosmas, is an outer earth, the seat of Paradise, "the earth beyond the
ocean where men dwelt before the Flood."

Although these maps of Cosmas were but the expression of one man's ideas, they served as a
model for others.

There is, at Turin, a delightful map of the eighth century with the four winds and the ocean
stream as usual. The world is divided into three--Asia, Africa, and Europe. Adam and Eve stand
at the top; to the right of Adam lies Armenia and the Caucasus; to the left of Eve are Mount
Lebanon, the river Jordan, Sidon, and Mesopotamia. At their feet lie Mount Carmel, Jerusalem,
and Babylon.

In Europe we find a few names such as Constantinople, Italy, France. Britannia and Scotland
are islands in the encircling sea. Africa is suitably represented by the Nile.

Of much the same date is another map known as the Albi, preserved in the library at Albi in
Languedoc. The world is square, with rounded corners; Britain is an island off the coast of
Spain, and a beautiful green sea flows round the whole.

An example of tenth-century map-making, known as the Cottoniana or Anglo-Saxon map, is in the
British Museum. Here is a mixture of Biblical and classical knowledge. Jerusalem and Bethlehem
are in their place and the Pillars of Hercules stand at the entrance of the Mediterranean Sea.
The British Isles are still distorted, and quantities of little unnamed islands lie about the
north of Scotland. In the extreme east lies an enormous Ceylon; in the north-east corner of
Asia is drawn a magnificent lion with mane and curling tail, with the words around him: "Here
lions abound." Africa as usual is made up of the Nile, Alexandria at its mouth, and its source
in a lake.

There is another form of these early maps. They are quite small and round. They are known as
T-maps, being divided into three parts--Europe, Asia, and Africa. Jerusalem is always in the
centre, and the ocean stream flows round.

After the manner of these, only on a very large scale, is the famous Mappa Mundi, by Richard
of Haldingham, on the walls of the Hereford Cathedral of the thirteenth century. Jerusalem
is in the centre, and the Crucifixion is there depicted. At the top is the Last Judgment, with
the good and bad folk divided on either side. Adam and Eve are there, so are the Pillars of
Hercules, Scylla and Charybdis, the Red Sea coloured red, the Nile and the Mountains of the
Moon, strange beasts and stranger men.

With the Hereford map came in that pictorial geography that makes the maps of the later Middle
Ages so delightful.

"This is indeed the true way to make a map," says a modern writer. "If these old maps erred
in the course of their rivers and the lines of their mountains and space, they are not so misleading
as your modern atlas with its too accurate measurements. For even your most primitive map,
with Paradise in the east--a gigantic Jerusalem in the centre--gives a less distorted impression
than that which we obtain from the most scientific chart on Mercator's projection."

CHAPTER XX

PRINCE HENRY OF PORTUGAL

But now a new era was about to begin--a new age was dawning--and we open a wonderful chapter
in the history of discovery, perhaps the most wonderful in all the world. In Portugal a man
had arisen who was to awaken the slumbering world of travel and direct it to the high seas.

And the name of this man was Henry, a son of King John of Portugal. His mother was an Englishwoman,
daughter of "John of Gaunt, time-honoured Lancaster." The Prince was, therefore, a nephew of
Henry IV. and great-grandson of Edward III. of England. But if English blood flowed in his
veins he, too, was the son of the "greatest King that ever sat on the throne of Portugal,"
and at the age of twenty he had already learned something of the sea that lay between his father's
kingdom and the northern coast of Africa. Thus, when in the year 1415 King John planned a great
expedition across the narrow seas to Ceuta, an important Moorish city in North Africa, it fell
to Prince Henry himself to equip seven triremes, six biremes, twenty-six ships of burden, and
a number of small craft. These he had ready at Lisbon when news reached him that the Queen,
his mother, was stricken ill. The King and three sons were soon at her bedside. It was evident
that she was dying.

"What wind blows so strongly against the side of the house?" she asked suddenly.

"The wind blows from the north," replied her sons.

"It is the wind most favourable for your departure," replied Philippa. And with these words
the English Queen died.

This is not the place to tell how the expedition started at once as the dead Queen had wished,
how Ceuta was triumphantly taken, and how Prince Henry distinguished himself till all Europe
rang with his fame. Henry V. of England begged him to come over and take command of his forces.
The Emperor of Germany sent the same request. But he had other schemes for his life. He would
not fight the foes of England or of Germany, rather would he fight the great ocean whose waves
dashed high against the coast of Portugal. He had learned something of inland Africa, of the
distant coast of Guinea, and he was fired with the idea of exploring along this west coast
of Africa and possibly reaching India by sea.

Let us recall what was known of the Atlantic only six centuries ago. "It was," says an old
writer, "a vast and boundless ocean, on which ships dared not venture out of sight of land.
For even if the sailors knew the direction of the winds they would not know whither those winds
would carry them, and, as there is no inhabited country beyond, they would run great risk of
being lost in mist and vapour. The limit of the West is the Atlantic Ocean."

The ocean was a new and formidable foe, hitherto unconquered and unexplored. At last one had
arisen to attempt its conquest. As men had lifted the veil from the unknown land of China,
so now the mists were to be cleared from the Sea of Darkness.

On the inhospitable shores of southern Portugal, amid the "sadness of a waste of shifting sand,
in a neighbourhood so barren that only a few stunted trees struggled for existence, on one
of the coldest, dreariest spots of sunny Portugal," Prince Henry built his naval arsenal. In
this secluded spot, far from the gaieties of Court life, with the vast Atlantic rolling measureless
and mysterious before him, Prince Henry took up the study of astronomy and mathematics. Here
he gathered round him men of science; he built ships and trained Portuguese sailors in the
art of navigation, so far as it was known in those days.

Then he urged them seawards. In 1418 two gentlemen of his household, Zarco and Vaz, volunteered
to sail to Cape Bojador towards the south. They started off and as usual hugged the coast for
some way, but a violent storm arose and soon they were driven out to sea. They had lost sight
of land and given themselves up for lost when, at break of day, they saw an island not far
off. Delighted at their escape, they named it Porto Santo and, overjoyed at their discovery,
hastened back to Portugal to relate their adventures to Prince Henry. They described the fertile
soil and delicious climate of the newly found island, the simplicity of its inhabitants, and
they requested leave to return and make a Portuguese settlement there. To reward them, Prince
Henry gave them three ships and everything to ensure success in their new enterprise. But unfortunately
he added a rabbit and her family. These were turned out and multiplied with such astonishing
rapidity that in two years' time they were numerous enough to destroy all the vegetation of
the island.

So Porto Santo was colonised by the Portuguese, and one Perestrello was made Governor of the
island; and it is interesting to note that his daughter became the wife of Christopher Columbus.
But the original founders, Zarco and Vaz, had observed from time to time a dark spot on the
horizon which aroused their curiosity. Sailing towards it, they found an island of considerable
size, uninhabited and very attractive, but so covered with woods that they named it Madeira,
the Island of Woods.

But although these two islands belong to Portugal to-day, and although Portugal claimed their
discovery, it has been proved that already an Englishman and his wife had been there, and the
names of the islands appear on an Italian map of 1351.

The story of this first discovery is very romantic. In the reign of Edward III. a young man
named Robert Machin sailed away from Bristol with a very wealthy lady. A north-east wind carried
them out of their course, and after thirteen days' driving before a storm they were cast on
to an island. It was uninhabited and well wooded and watered. But the sufferings and privations
proved too much for the poor English lady, who died after three days, and Machin died a few
days later of grief and exposure. The crew of the ship sailed away to the coast of Africa,
there to be imprisoned by the Moors. Upon their escape in 1416 they made known their discovery.

So Zarco and Vaz divided the island of Madeira, calling half of it Funchal (the Portuguese
for fennel, which grew here in great quantities) and the other half Machico after the poor
English discoverer Machin. The first two Portuguese children born in the island of Madeira
were called Adam and Eve.

Year after year Prince Henry launched his little ships on the yet unknown, uncharted seas,
urging his captains to venture farther and ever farther. He longed for them to reach Cape Bojador,
and bitter was his disappointment when one of his squires, dismayed by travellers' tales, turned
back from the Canary Islands.

"Go out again," urged the enthusiastic Prince, "and give no heed to their opinions, for, by
the grace of God, you cannot fail to derive from your voyage both honour and profit."

And the squire went forth from the commanding presence of the Prince resolved to double the
Cape, which he successfully accomplished in 1434. Seven years passed away, till in 1441 two
men--Gonsalves, master of the wardrobe (a strange qualification for difficult navigation),
and Nuno Tristam, a young knight--started forth on the Prince's service, with orders to pass
Cape Bojador where a dangerous surf, breaking on the shore, had terrified other navigators.
There was a story, too, that any man who passed Cape Bojador would be changed from white into
black, that there were sea-monsters, sheets of burning flame, and boiling waters beyond. The
young knight Tristam discovered the white headland beyond Cape Bojador, named it Cape Blanco,
and took home some Moors of high rank to the Prince. A large sum was offered for their ransom,
so Gonsalves conveyed them back to Cape Blanco and coasted along to the south, discovering
the island of Arguin of the Cape Verde group and reaching the neighbourhood of Sierra Leone,
reached by Hanno many centuries before this.

Here he received some gold dust, and with this and some thirty negroes he returned to Lisbon,
where the strange black negroes "caused the most lively astonishment among the people." The
small quantity of gold dust created a sensation among the Portuguese explorers, and the spirit
of adventure grew. No longer had the Prince to urge his navigators forth to new lands and new
seas; they were ready and willing to go, for the reward was now obvious. The news was soon
noised abroad, and Italians, then reckoned among the most skilful seamen of the time, flocked
to Portugal, anxious to take service under the Prince.

"Love of gain was the magic wand that drew them on and on, into unknown leagues of waters,
into wild adventures and desperate affrays."

The "Navigator" himself looked beyond these things. He would find a way to India; he would
teach the heathen to be Christians. He was always ready to welcome those with superior knowledge
of navigation; so in 1454 he sent an Italian, known to history as Cadamosto, to sail the African
seas. The young Venetian was but twenty-one, and he tells his story simply.

"Now I--Luigi Ca da Mosto--had sailed nearly all the Mediterranean coasts, but, being caught
by a storm off Cape St. Vincent, had to take refuge in the Prince's town, and was there told
of the glorious and boundless conquests of the Prince, the which did exceedingly stir my soul--eager
it was for gain above all things else. My age, my vigour, my skill are equal to any toil; above
all, my passionate desire to see the world and explore the unknown set me all on fire with
eagerness."

In 1455 Cadamosto sailed from Portugal for Madeira, now "thickly peopled with Portuguese."
From Madeira to the Canaries, from the Canaries to Cape Blanco, "natives black as moles were
dressed in white flowing robes with turbans wound round their heads." Here was a great market
of Arab traders from the interior, here were camels laden with brass, silver, and gold, as
well as slaves innumerable.

But Cadamosto pushed on for some four hundred miles by the low, sandy shore to the Senegal
River. The Portuguese had already sailed by this part of the coast, and the negroes had thought
their ships to be great birds from afar cleaving the air with their white wings. When the crews
furled their sails and drew into shore the natives changed their minds and thought they were
fishes, and all stood on the shore gazing stupidly at this new wonder.

Cadamosto landed and pushed some two hundred and fifty miles up the Senegal River, where he
set up a market, exchanging cotton and cloth for gold, while "the negroes came stupidly crowding
round me, wondering at our white colour, which they tried to wash off, our dress, our garments
of black silk and robes of blue cloth."

Joined by two other ships from Portugal, the Italian explorer now sailed on to Cape Verde,
so called from its green grass.

"The land here," he tells us, "is all low and full of fine, large trees, which are continually
green. The trees never wither like those in Europe; they grow so near the shore that they seem
to drink, as it were, the water of the sea. The coast is most beautiful. Many countries have
I been in, to East and West, but never did I see a prettier sight."

But the negroes here--big, comely men--were lawless and impossible to approach, shooting at
the Portuguese explorers with poisoned arrows. They discovered that the capital of the country
was called Gambra, where lived a king, but the negroes of the Gambra were unfriendly; there
was little gold to be had; his crews fell sick and ill, and Cadamosto turned home again. But
he had reached a point beyond all other explorers of the time, a point where "only once did
we see the North Star, which was so low that it seemed almost to touch the sea." We know that
he must have been to within eleven degrees of the Equator, and it is disappointing to find
the promising young Italian disappearing from the pages of history.

And now we come to the last voyage planned by Prince Henry, that of Diego Gomez, his own faithful
servant. It followed close on Cadamosto's return.

No long time after, the Prince equipped a ship called the Wren and set over it Diego Gomez,
with two other ships, of which he was commander-in-chief. Their orders were to go as far as
they could. Gomez wrote his own travels, and his adventures are best told in his own words.
We take up his story from the far side of Cape Blanco.

"After passing a great river beyond Rio Grande we met such strong currents in the sea that
no anchor could hold. The other captains and their men were much alarmed, thinking we were
at the end of the ocean, and begged me to put back. In the mid-current the sea was very clear,
and the natives came off from the shore and brought us their merchandise. As the current grew
even stronger we put back and came to a land, where were groves of palms near the shore, with
their branches broken. There we found a plain covered with hay and more than five thousand
animals like stags, but larger, who showed no fear of us. Five elephants with two young ones
came out of a small river that was fringed by trees. We went back to the ships, and next day
made our way from Cape Verde and saw the broad mouth of a great river, which we entered and
guessed to be the Gambia. We went up the river as far as Cantor (some five hundred miles).
Farther than this the ships could not go, because of the thick growth of trees and underwood.
When the news spread through the country that the Christians were in Cantor, they came from
Timbuktu in the north, from Mount Gelu in the south. Here I was told there is gold in plenty,
and caravans of camels cross over there with goods from Carthage, Tunis, Fez, Cairo, and all
the land of the Saracens. I asked the natives of Cantor about the road to the gold country.
They told me the King lived in Kukia and was lord of all the mines on the right side of the
river of Cantor, and that he had before the door of this palace a mass of gold just as it was
taken from the earth, so large that twenty men could hardly move it, and that the King always
fastened his horse to it. While I was thus trafficking with these negroes, my men became worn
out with the heat, and so we returned towards the ocean."

But Diego Gomez had succeeded in making friends with the hostile natives of this part. He left
behind him a better idea of Christian men than some of the other explorers had done. His own
account of the conversion of the Mohammedan King who lived near the mouth of the river Gambia,
which was visited on the return voyage, is most interesting.

"Now the houses here are made of seaweed, covered with straw, and while I stayed here (at the
river mouth) three days, I learned all the mischief that had been done to the Christians by
a certain King. So I took pains to make peace with him and sent him many presents by his own
men in his own canoes. Now the King was in great fear of the Christians, lest they should take
vengeance upon him. When the King heard that I always treated the natives kindly he came to
the river-side with a great force, and, sitting down on the bank, sent for me. And so I went
and paid him all respect. There was a Bishop there of his own faith, who asked me about the
God of the Christians, and I answered him as God had given me to know. At last the King was
so pleased with what I said that he sprang to his feet and ordered the Mohammedan Bishop to
leave his country within three days."

So when the Portuguese returned home, Prince Henry sent a priest and a young man of his own
household to the black King at the mouth of the Gambia. This was in 1458.

"In the year of our Lord 1460, Prince Henry fell ill in his town on Cape St. Vincent," says
his faithful explorer and servant, Diego Gomez, "and of that sickness he died."

Such was the end of the man who has been called the "originator of modern discovery." What
had he done? He had inspired and financed the Portuguese navigators to sail for some two thousand
miles down the West African coast. "From his wave-washed home he inspired the courage of his
men and planned their voyages, and by the purity of his actions and the devotion of his life
really lived up to his inspiring motto, 'Talent de bien faire.'" And more than this. For each
successive discovery had been carefully noted at the famous Sagres settlement, and these had
been worked up by an Italian monk named Fra Mauro into an enormous wall-map over six feet across,
crammed with detail--the work of three years' incessant labour.

CHAPTER XXI

BARTHOLOMEW DIAZ REACHES THE STORMY CAPE

But though Prince Henry was dead, the enthusiasm he had aroused among Portuguese navigators
was not dead, and Portuguese ships still stole forth by twos and threes to search for treasure
down the West African coast. In 1462 they reached Sierra Leone, the farthest point attained
by Hanno of olden days. Each new headland was now taken in the name of Portugal: wooden crosses
already marked each successive discovery, and many a tree near the coast bore the motto of
Prince Henry carved roughly on its bark. Portugal had officially claimed this "Kingdom of the
Seas" as it was called, and henceforth stone crosses some six feet high, inscribed with the
arms of Portugal, the name of the navigator, and the date of discovery, marked each newly found
spot.

It was not until 1471 that the navigators unconsciously crossed the Equator, "into a new heaven
and a new earth." They saw stars unknown in the Northern Hemisphere, and the Northern Pole
star sank nearly out of sight. Another thirteen years and Diego Cam, a knight of the King's
household, found the mouth of the Congo and erected a great Portuguese pillar on the famous
spot. It was in the year 1484 that Diego Cam was ordered to go "as far to the south as he could."
He crossed the Equator, which for past years had been the limit of knowledge, and, continuing
southwards he reached the mouth of the mighty river Congo, now known as the second of all the
African rivers for size. The explorer ascended the river, falling in with peacefully inclined
natives. But they could not make themselves understood, so Cam took back four of them to Portugal,
where they learned enough Portuguese to talk a little. They were much struck with Portugal
and the kind treatment they received from the King, who sent them back to their country laden
with presents for their black King at home. So with Diego Cam they all sailed back to the Congo
River. They were received by the King in royal state. Seated on a throne of ivory raised on
a lofty wooden platform, he could be seen from all sides, his "black and glittering skin" shining
out above a piece of damask given to him to wear by the Portuguese explorer. From his shoulder
hung a dressed horse's tail, a symbol of royalty; on his head was a cap of palm leaves.

It was here in this Congo district that the first negro was baptized in the presence of some
twenty-five thousand heathen comrades. The ceremony was performed by Portuguese priests, and
the negro King ordered all idols to be destroyed throughout his dominions. Here, too, a little
Christian church was built, and the King and Queen became such earnest Christians that they
sent their children to Portugal to be taught.

But even the discoveries of Diego Cam pale before the great achievement of Bartholomew Diaz,
who was now to accomplish the great task which Prince Henry the Navigator had yearned to see
fulfilled--the rounding of the Cape of Storms.

The expedition set sail for the south in August 1486. Passing the spot where Diego Cam had
erected his farthest pillar, Diaz reached a headland, now known as Diaz Point, where he, too,
placed a Portuguese pillar that remained unbroken till about a hundred years ago. Still to
the south he sailed, struggling with wind and weather, to Cape Voltas, close to the mouth of
the Orange River. Then for another fortnight the little ships were driven before the wind,
south and ever south, with half-reefed sails and no land in sight. Long days and longer nights
passed to find them still drifting in an unknown sea, knowing not what an hour might bring
forth. At last the great wind ceased to blow and it became icy cold. They had sailed to the
south of South Africa. Steering north, Diaz now fell in with land--land with cattle near the
shore and cowherds tending them, but the black cowherds were so alarmed at the sight of the
Portuguese that they fled away inland.

We know now, what neither Diaz nor his crew even suspected, that he had actually rounded, without
seeing, the Cape of Good Hope. The coast now turned eastward till a small island was reached
in a bay we now call Algoa Bay. Here Bartholomew Diaz set up another pillar with its cross
and inscription, naming the rock Santa Cruz. This was the first land beyond the Cape ever trodden
by European feet. Unfortunately the natives--Kafirs--threw stones at them, and it was impossible
to make friends and to land. The crews, too, began to complain. They were worn out with continual
work, weary for fresh food, terrified at the heavy seas that broke on these southern shores.
With one voice they protested against proceeding any farther. But the explorer could not bear
to turn back; he must sail onwards now, just three days more, and then if they found nothing
he would turn back. They sailed on and came to the mouth of a large river--the Great Fish River.
Again the keen explorer would sail on and add to his already momentous discoveries. But the
crews again began their complaints and, deeply disappointed, Diaz had to turn. "When he reached
the little island of Santa Cruz and bade farewell to the cross which he had there erected,
it was with grief as intense as if he were leaving his child in the wilderness with no hope
of ever seeing him again." To him it seemed as though he had endured all his hardships in vain.
He knew not what he had really accomplished as yet. But his eyes were soon to be opened. Sailing
westward, Diaz at last came in sight of "that remarkable Cape which had been hidden from the
eyes of man for so many centuries."

Remembering their perils past, he called it "the Stormy Cape" and hastened home to the King
of Portugal with his great news. The King was overjoyed, but he refused to name it the Cape
of Storms. Would not such a name deter the seamen of the future? Was not this the long-sought
passage to India? Rather it should be called the Cape of Good Hope, the name which it has held
throughout the centuries. In the course of one voyage, Diaz had accomplished the great task
which for the past seventy years Prince Henry had set before his people. He had lifted for
the first time in the history of the world the veil that had hung over the mysterious extremity
of the great African continent. The Phoenicians may have discovered it some seventeen hundred
years before Diaz, but the record of tradition alone exists.

Now with the new art of printing, which was transforming the whole aspect of life, the brilliant
achievement of Bartholomew Diaz was made known far and wide.

It was shortly to be followed by a yet more brilliant feat by a yet more brilliant navigator,
"the most illustrious that the world has seen." The very name of Christopher Columbus calls
up the vision of a resolute man beating right out into the westward unknown seas and finding
as his great reward a whole new continent--a New World of whose existence mankind had hardly
dreamt.

CHAPTER XXII

CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS

Every event in the eventful life of Christopher Columbus is of supreme interest. We linger
over all that leads up to the momentous start westwards: we recall his birth and early life
at Genoa towards the middle of the fifteenth century, his apprenticeship to his father as a
weaver of cloth, his devotion to the sea, his love of the little sailing ships that passed
in and out of the busy Genoese harbour from all parts of the known world. At the age of fourteen
the little Christoforo went to sea--a red-haired, sunburnt boy with bright blue eyes. He learnt
the art of navigation, he saw foreign countries, he learnt to chart the seas, to draw maps,
and possibly worked with some of the noted Italian draughtsmen. At the age of twenty-eight,
in 1474, he left Genoa for Portugal, famous throughout the world for her recent discoveries,
though as yet the Stormy Cape lay veiled in mystery. Columbus wanted to learn all he could
about these discoveries; he made voyages to Guinea, Madeira, and Porto Santo. He also went
to England and "sailed a hundred leagues to the island of Thule in 1477."

He was now a recognised seaman of distinction, with courteous manners and fine appearance.
He set himself to study maps and charts at Lisbon, giving special attention to instruments
for making observations at sea. For many long years he had been revolving a scheme for reaching
India by sailing westward instead of the route by Africa. The more he studied these things
the more convinced he became that he was right.

   "What if wise men had, as far back as Ptolemy,
    Judged that the earth like an orange was round.
    None of them ever said, 'Come along, follow me,
    Sail to the West and the East will be found.'"

It was not till the year 1480 that Columbus proposed to the King of Portugal his idea of sailing
westwards. He explained his reasons: how there were grounds for thinking there was an unknown
land to the west, how artistically sculptured pieces of wood had been driven across the ocean
by the west wind, suggesting islands not yet discovered, how once the corpses of two men with
broad faces, unlike Europeans, had been washed ashore, how on the west coast of Ireland seeds
of tropical plants had been discovered.

The King listened and was inclined to believe Columbus. But his councillors persuaded him to
get from the Genoese navigator his plans, and while they kept Columbus waiting for the King's
answer they sent off some ships privately to investigate the whole matter. The ships started
westward, encountered a great storm, and returned to Lisbon, scoffing at the scheme of the
stranger. When this news reached his ears, Columbus was very angry. He would have nothing more
to do with Portugal, but left that country at once for Spain to appeal to the King and Queen
of that land.

Ferdinand and Isabella were busy with affairs of state and could not give audience to the man
who was to discover a New World. It was not till 1491 that he was summoned before the King
and Queen. Once more his wild scheme was laughed at, and he was dismissed the Court. Not only
was he again indignant, but his friends were indignant too. They believed in him, and would
not rest till they had persuaded the Queen to take up his cause. He demanded a good deal. He
must be made Admiral and Viceroy of all the new seas and lands he might discover, as well as
receiving a large portion of his gains. The Queen was prevailed on to provide means for the
expedition, and she became so enthusiastic over it that she declared she would sell her own
jewels to provide the necessary supplies. Columbus was created Admiral of the Ocean in all
the islands and continents he might discover; two little ships were made ready, and it seemed
as though the dream of his life might be fulfilled. The explorer was now forty-six; his red
hair had become grey with waiting and watching for the possibility of realising his great scheme.

At last the preparations were complete. The Santa Maria was to lead the way with the Admiral
on board; she was but one hundred tons' burden, with a high poop and a forecastle. It had been
difficult enough to find a crew; men were shy about venturing with this stranger from Genoa
on unknown seas, and it was a motley party that finally took service under Columbus. The second
ship, the Pinta, was but half the size of the flagship; she had a crew of eighteen and was
the fastest sailer of the little squadron, while the third, the Nina of forty tons, also carried
eighteen men.

On 3rd August 1492 the little fleet sailed forth from Spain on a quest more perilous perhaps
than any yet on record. No longer could they sail along with a coast always in sight; day after
day and night after night they must sail on an unknown sea in search of an unknown land. No
one ever expected to see them again. It has well been said that, "looking back at all that
has grown out of it in the four centuries that have elapsed, we now know that the sailing of
those three little boats over the bar was, since the Fall of Rome, the most momentous event
in the world's history." The ships steered for the Canary Islands, and it was not till 9th
September that the last land faded from the eyes of that daring little company.

Something of a panic among the sailors ensued when they realised their helpless position; some
even burst into tears, begging to be taken home. The days passed on. By the 16th they had come
within the influence of the trade winds.

"The weather was like April," says Columbus in his journal. Still westward they sailed, eagerly
looking for signs of land. Now they see two pelicans, "an indication that land was near," now
a large dark cloud to the north, another "sign that land is near."

As the days pass on, their hopes die away and "the temper of the crews was getting uglier and
uglier as the three little vessels forged westward through the blue weed-strewn waters." On
9th October hope revives; all night they hear birds passing through the still air.

On the evening of the 11th a light was seen glimmering in the distance; from the high stern
deck of the Santa Maria it could be plainly seen, and when the sun rose on that memorable morning
the low shores of land a few miles distant could be plainly seen. "Seabirds are wheeling overhead
heedless of the intruders, but on the shore human beings are assembling to watch the strange
birds which now spread their wings and sail towards the island.

"The Pinta leads and her crew are raising the 'Te Deum.' The crews of the Santa Maria and the
Nina join in the solemn chant and many rough men brush away tears. Columbus, the two Pinzons,
and some of the men step into the cutter and row to the shore." Columbus, fully armed under
his scarlet cloak, sprang ashore, the unclothed natives fleeing away at sight of the first
white man who had ever stepped on their shores. Then, unfurling the royal standard of Spain
and setting up a large cross, the great navigator fell on his knees and gave thanks to God
for this triumphant ending to his perilous voyage. He named the island San Salvador and formally
took possession of it for Spain. It was one of the Bahama group, and is now known as Watling
Island (British).

"Thus was the mighty enterprise achieved, mighty in its conception, still more important in
its results."

But Columbus thought he had discovered the Indies, a new route to the east and the Cathay of
Marco Polo. He had done more than this; he had discovered another continent. He had sailed
over three thousand miles without seeing land, a feat unparalleled in the former history of
discovery.

He made friends with the natives, who resembled those of the Canary Islands. "I believe they
would easily become Christians," wrote Columbus. "If it please our Lord at the time of my departure,
I will take six from here that they may learn to speak." He also notes that they will make
good slaves.

From island to island he now made his way, guided by natives. He hoped to find gold; he hoped
to find Cathay, for he had a letter from Ferdinand and Isabella to deliver to the Great Khan.
The charm and beauty of these enchanted islands were a source of joy to the explorer: "The
singing of the little birds is such that it appears a man would wish never to leave here, and
the flocks of parrots obscure the sun." The island of Cuba "seemed like heaven itself," but
Columbus could not forget that he was searching for gold, for Oriental spices, for the land
of Marco Polo, as he hastened from point to point, from island to island. Already the Pinta
under Martin Pinzon had gone off independently in search of a vague land of gold, to the vexation
of the Admiral. A worse disaster was now to befall him. On Christmas Day, off the island of
Hayti, the Santa Maria struck upon a reef and went over. Columbus and his crew escaped on board
the little Nina. But she was too small to carry home the double crew, and Columbus made a little
fortress on the island where the native King was friendly, and left there a little colony of
Spaniards.

He now prepared for the homeward voyage, and one January day in 1493 he left the newly discovered
islands and set his face for home in company with the Pinta, which by this time had returned
to him. For some weeks they got on fairly well. Then the wind rose. A violent storm came on;
the sea was terrible, the waves breaking right over the little homeward-bound ships, which
tossed about helplessly for long days and nights. Suddenly the Pinta disappeared. The wind
and sea increased. The little forty-ton Nina was in extreme peril, and the crew gave themselves
up for lost; their provisions were nearly finished. Columbus was agonised lest he should perish
and the news of his great discovery should never reach Spain. Taking a piece of parchment,
he noted down as best he could amid the tossing of the ship a brief account of his work, and,
wrapping it in a waxed cloth, he put it into an empty cask and threw it overboard. Then, while
the mountainous seas threatened momentary destruction, he waited and prayed.

Slowly the storm abated, and on 18th February they reached the Azores. A few days for refreshment
and on he sailed again, feverishly anxious to reach Spain and proclaim his great news. But
on 3rd March the wind again rose to a hurricane and death stared the crew in the face. Still,
"under bare poles and in a heavy cross-sea," they scudded on, until they reached the mouth
of the Tagus. The news of his arrival soon spread, and excited crowds hurried to see the little
ship that had crossed the fierce Atlantic. Bartholomew Diaz came aboard the Nina, and for a
short time the two greatest explorers of their century were together. An enthusiastic welcome
awaited him in Spain. Was he not the "Admiral of the Ocean Sea, Viceroy of the Western Indies,"
the only man who had crossed the unknown for the sake of a cherished dream?

"Seven months had passed since Columbus had sailed from Spain in the dim light of that summer
morning. Now he was back. Through tempestuous seas and raging winter gales he had guided his
ship well, and Spain knew how to do him honour. His journey from the coast to the Court was
like a royal progress. The roads were lined with excited people; the air was rent with shouts
of joy."

On Palm Sunday, 1493, he passed through the streets of Seville. A procession preceded him in
which walked the six natives, or Indians as they were called, brought home by Columbus; parrots
and other birds with strange and radiant colouring were also borne before the triumphant explorer,
who himself rode on horseback among the mounted chivalry of Spain. From windows and roofs a
dense throng watched Christopher Columbus as he rode through the streets of Seville. From here
he passed on to Barcelona, to be received by the King and Queen.

                      "The city decked herself
    To meet me, roar'd my name: the king, the queen,
    Bad me be seated, speak, and tell them all
    The story of my voyage, and while I spoke
    The crowd's roar fell as at the 'Peace be still.'
    And when I ceased to speak, the king, the queen,
    Sank from their thrones, and melted into tears,
    And knelt, and lifted hand and heart and voice
    In praise to God who led me thro' the waste.
    And then the great 'Laudamus' rose to heaven."

It is curious to think what a strange mistake caused all their rejoicing. Not only Spain, but
the whole civilised world firmly believed that Columbus had discovered some islands off the
coast of Asia, not far from the land of the Great Khan, in the Indian seas. Hence the islands
were called the West Indies, which name they have kept to this day.

CHAPTER XXIII

A GREAT NEW WORLD

The departure of Columbus six months later on his second voyage was a great contrast to the
uncertain start of a year ago. The new fleet was ready by September 1493. The three largest
ships were some four hundred tons' burden, with fourteen smaller craft and crews of fifteen
thousand men. There was no dearth of volunteers this time. High-born Spaniards, thirsting for
the wealth of the Indies, offered their services, while Columbus took his brother James and
a Benedictine monk chosen by the Pope. They took orange and lemon seeds for planting in the
new islands, horses, pigs, bulls, cows, sheep, and goats, besides fruit and vegetables.

So, full of hope and joyful expectation, they set sail; and so well had Columbus calculated
his distance and direction with but imperfect instruments at his disposal, that he arrived
at the islands again on 3rd November. It was another new island, which he named Domenica, as
the day was Sunday. Making for the island of Hayti, where he had left his little Spanish colony,
he passed many islands, naming Guadeloupe, San Martin, Santa Cruz, and others. Porto Rico was
also found, but they arrived at Hayti to find no trace of Spaniards. Disaster had overtaken
the colony, and the deserted men had been killed by the natives who had apparently been so
friendly. Another spot was selected by Columbus, and a town was soon built to which he gave
the name of Isabella.

This is not the place to tell of the miserable disputes and squabbles that befell the little
Spanish colony. We are here concerned with the fuller exploration of the West Indies by Columbus.
Taking three ships provisioned for six months, with a crew of fifty-two, he set out for the
coast of Cathay. Instead of this, he found the island of Jamaica, with its low, hazy, blue
coast of extreme beauty. Still convinced that he was near the territory of the Great Khan,
he explored the coast of Cuba, not realising that it was an island. He sailed about among the
islands, till he became very ill, fever seized him, and at last his men carried him ashore
at Isabella, thinking that he must die. He recovered to find a discontented colony, members
of which had already sent back stories to Spain of the misdeeds of their founder. Columbus
made up his mind to return to Spain to carry a true report of the difficulties of colonisation
in the Indies.

"It was June 1496 before he found himself again in the harbour of Cadiz. People had crowded
down to greet the great discoverer, but instead of a joyous crew, flushed with new success
and rich with the spoils of the golden Indies, a feeble train of wretched men crawled on shore--thin,
miserable, and ill. Columbus himself was dressed as a monk, in a long gown girded with a cord.
His beard was long and unshaven. The whole man was utterly broken down with all he had been
through."

But after a stay of two years in Spain, Columbus again started off on his third voyage. With
six ships he now took a more southerly direction, hoping to find land to the south of the West
Indies. And this he did, but he never lived to know that it was the great continent of South
America. Through scorching heat, which melted the tar of their rigging, they sailed onwards
till they were rewarded by the sight of land at last. Columbus had promised to dedicate the
first land he saw to the Holy Trinity. What, then, was his surprise when land appeared from
which arose three distinct peaks, which he at once named La Trinidad. The luxuriance of the
island pleased the Spaniards, and as they made their way slowly along the shore their eyes
rested for the first time, and unconsciously, on the mainland of South America. It appeared
to the explorer as a large island which he called Isla Santa. Here oysters abounded and "very
large fish, and parrots as large as hens." Between the island and the mainland lay a narrow
channel through which flowed a mighty current. While the ships were anchoring here a great
flood of fresh water came down with a great roar, nearly destroying the little Spanish ships
and greatly alarming both Columbus and his men. It was one of the mouths of the river Orinoco,
to which they gave the name of the Dragon's Mouth. The danger over, they sailed on, charmed
with the beautiful shores, the sight of the distant mountains, and the sweetness of the air.

Columbus decided that this must be the centre of the earth's surface, and with its mighty rivers
surely it was none other than the earthly Paradise with the rivers of the Garden of Eden, that
"some of the Fathers had declared to be situated in the extreme east of the Old World, and
in a region so high that the flood had not overwhelmed it." The world then, said Columbus,
could not be a perfect round, but pear-shaped. With these conclusions he hastened across to
Hayti where his brother was ruling over the little colony in his absence. But treachery and
mutiny had been at work. Matters had gone ill with the colony, and Columbus did not improve
the situation by his presence. He was a brilliant navigator, but no statesman. Complaints reached
Spain, and a Spaniard was sent out to replace Columbus. This high-handed official at once put
the poor navigator in chains and placed him on board a ship bound for Spain. Queen Isabella
was overwhelmed with grief when the snowy-haired explorer once again stood before her, his
face lined with suffering. He was restored to royal favour and provided with ships to sail
forth on his fourth and last voyage. But his hardships and perils had told upon him, and he
was not really fit to undertake the long voyage to the Indies. However, he arrived safely off
the coast of Honduras and searched for the straits that he felt sure existed, but which were
not to be found till some eighteen years later by Magellan. The natives brought him cocoanuts,
which the Spaniards now tasted for the first time; they also brought merchandise from a far
land denoting some high civilisation. Columbus believed that he had reached the golden east,
whence the gold had been obtained for Solomon's temple.

Had Columbus only sailed west he might have discovered Mexico with all its wealth, and "a succession
of splendid discoveries would have shed fresh glory on his declining age, instead of his sinking
amidst gloom, neglect, and disappointment." At the isthmus of Darien, Columbus gave up the
search. He was weary of the bad weather. Incessant downpours of rain, storms of thunder and
lightning with terrific seas--these discouraged him. Disaster followed disaster. The food was
nearly finished; the biscuit "was so full of maggots that the people could only eat it in the
dark, when they were not visible." Columbus himself seemed to be at the point of death. "Never,"
he wrote, "was the sea seen so high, so terrific, so covered with foam; the waters from heaven
never ceased--it was like a repetition of the deluge."

He reached Spain in 1504 to be carried ashore on a litter, and to learn that the Queen of Spain
was dead. He was friendless, penniless, and sick unto death.

"After twenty years of toil and peril," he says pitifully, "I do not own a roof in Spain."

   "I, lying here, bedridden and alone,
    Cast off, put by, scouted by count and king,
    The first discoverer starves."

And so the brilliant navigator, Christopher Columbus, passed away, all unconscious of the great
New World he had reached. Four centuries have passed away, but--

   "When shall the world forget
    The glory and the debt,
    Indomitable soul,
        Immortal Genoese?
    Not while the shrewd salt gale
    Whines amid shroud and sail,
    Above the rhythmic roll
    And thunder of the seas."

It has been well said, "injustice was not buried with Columbus," and soon after his death an
attempt was made, and made successfully, to name the New World after another--a Florentine
pilot, Amerigo Vespucci.

It was but natural that when the first discoveries by Columbus of land to westward had been
made known, that others should follow in the track of the great navigator. Among these was
a handsome young Spaniard--one Hojeda--who had accompanied Columbus on his second voyage. Soon
after, he fitted out an expedition, 1499, reaching the mainland of the yet unknown continent
near the Trinidad of Columbus. With him was Amerigo Vespucci. Here they found a native village
with houses built on tree trunks and connected by bridges. It was so like a bit of old Venice
that the explorers named it Little Venice or Venezuela, which name it bears to-day.

Nothing was publicly known of this voyage till a year after the death of Columbus, when men
had coasted farther to the south of Venezuela and discovered that this land was neither Asia
nor Africa, that it was not the land of Marco Polo, but a new continent indeed.

"It is proper to call it a New World," says Amerigo Vespucci. "Men of old said over and over
again that there was no land south of the Equator. But this last voyage of mine has proved
them wrong, since in southern regions I have found a country more thickly inhabited by people
and animals than our Europe or Asia or Africa."

These words among others, and an account of his voyages published in Paris, 1507, created a
deep impression. A letter from Columbus announcing his discoveries had been published in 1493,
but he said nothing, because he knew nothing, of a New World. Men therefore said that Amerigo
Vespucci had discovered a new continent, "wherefore the new continent ought to be called America
from its discoverer Amerigo, a man of rare ability, inasmuch as Europe and Asia derived their
names from women."

CHAPTER XXIV

VASCO DA GAMA REACHES INDIA

Thus the name of America was gradually adopted for the New World, though the honour and glory
of its first discovery must always belong to Christopher Columbus.

But while all this wonderful development westwards was thrilling the minds of men, other great
discoveries were being made to the East, whither the eyes of the Portuguese were still straining.
Portugal had lost Columbus; she could lay no claim to the shores of America discovered by Spaniards,
but the sea-route to India by the East was yet to be found by one of her explorers, Vasco da
Gama. His achievement stands out brilliantly at this time; for, within a few years of the discovery
of the New World, he had been able to tell the world that India and the East could be reached
by the Cape of Good Hope!

The dream of Prince Henry the Navigator was fulfilled!

How Vasco da Gama was chosen for the great command has been graphically described by a Portuguese
historian, whose words are received with caution by modern authorities. The King of Portugal--Dom
Manuel--having set his kingdom in order, "being inspired by the Lord, took the resolution to
inform himself about the affairs of India." He knew that the province of India was very far
away, inhabited by dark people who had great riches and merchandise, and there was much risk
in crossing the wide seas and land to reach it. But he felt it a sacred duty to try and reach
it. He ordered ships to be built according to a design of Bartholomew Diaz, the Hero of the
Cape, "low amidships, with high castles towering fore and aft; they rode the water like ducks."
The ships ready, the King prayed the Lord "to show him the man whom it would please Him to
send upon this voyage." Days passed. One day the King was sitting in his hall with his officers
when he raised his eyes and saw a gentleman of his household crossing the hall. It suddenly
occurred to the King that this was the man for his command, and, calling Vasco da Gama, he
offered him the command at once. He was courageous, resolute, and firm of purpose. On his knees
he accepted the great honour. A silken banner blazing with the Cross of the Order of Christ
was bestowed upon him; he chose the S. Gabriel for his flagship, appointed his brother to the
S. Raphael, and prepared for his departure. Books and charts were supplied, Ptolemy's geography
was on board, as well as the Book of Marco Polo. All being ready, Vasco da Gama and his captains
spent the night in the little chapel by the sea at Belem, built for the mariners of Henry the
Navigator.

Next morning--it was July--they walked in solemn procession to the shore, lighted candles in
their hands, priests chanting a solemn litany as they walked. The beach was crowded with people.
Under the blazing summer sun they knelt once more before taking leave of the weeping multitudes.
Listen to the Portuguese poet, Camoens, who makes Vasco da Gama the hero of his "Lusiad"--

   "The neighbouring mountains murmur'd back the sound,
    As if to pity moved for human woe;
    Uncounted as the grains of golden sand,
    The tears of thousands fell on Belem's strand."

So the Portuguese embarked, weighed anchor, and unfurled the sails that bore the red cross
of the Order of Christ. The four little ships started on what was to be the longest and most
momentous voyage on record, while crowds stood on the shore straining their eyes till the fleet,
under full sail, vanished from their sight.

After passing Cape Verde, in order to escape the currents of the Gulf of Guinea, Vasco da Gama
steered south-west into an unknown part of the South Atlantic. He did not know that at one
time he was within six hundred miles of the coast of South America. Day after day, week after
week passed in dreary monotony as they sailed the wide ocean that surrounds St. Helena, "a
lonely, dreary waste of seas and boundless sky." Everything ends at last, and, having spent
ninety-six days out of sight of land and sailed some four thousand five hundred miles, they
drifted on to the south-west coast of Africa. It was a record voyage, for even Columbus had
only been two thousand six hundred miles without seeing land. November found them in a broad
bay, "and," says the old log of the voyage, "we named it St. Helena," which name it still retains.
After a skirmish with some tawny-coloured Hottentots the explorers sailed on, putting "their
trust in the Lord to double the Cape."

But the sea was all broken with storm, high rolled the waves, and so short were the days that
darkness prevailed. The crews grew sick with fear and hardship, and all clamoured to put back
to Portugal.

With angry words Vasco da Gama bade them be silent, though "he well saw how much reason they
had at every moment to despair of their lives"; the ships were now letting in much water, and
cold rains soaked them all to the skin.

"All cried out to God for mercy upon their souls, for now they no longer took heed of their
lives." At last the storm ceased, the seas grew calm, and they knew that, without seeing it,
they had doubled the dreaded Cape, "on which great joy fell upon them and they gave great praise
to the Lord."

But their troubles were not yet over. The sea was still very rough, "for the winter of that
country was setting in," and even the pilot suggested turning back to take refuge for a time.
When Vasco da Gama heard of turning backward he cried that they should not speak such words,
because as he was going out of the bar of Lisbon he had promised God in his heart not to turn
back a single span's breadth of the way, and he would throw into the sea whosoever spoke such
things. None could withstand such an iron will, and they struggled on to Mossel Bay, already
discovered by Diaz. Here they landed "and bought a fat ox for three bracelets. This ox we dined
off on Sunday; we found him very fat, and his meat nearly as toothsome as the beef of Portugal"--a
pleasant meal, indeed, after three months of salted food. Here, too, they found "penguins as
large as ducks, which had no feathers on their wings and which bray like asses."

But there was no time to linger here. They sailed onwards till they had passed and left behind
the last pillar erected by Diaz, near the mouth of the Great Fish River. All was new now. No
European had sailed these seas, no European had passed this part of the African coast. On Christmas
Day they found land to which, in commemoration of Christ's Nativity, they gave the name of
Natal. Passing Delagoa Bay and Sofala without sighting them, Vasco da Gama at last reached
the mouth of a broad river, now known as Quilimane River, but called by the weary mariners
the River of Mercy or Good Tokens. Here they spent a month cleaning and repairing, and here
for the first time in the history of discovery the fell disease of scurvy broke out. The hands
and feet of the men swelled, their gums grew over their teeth, which fell out so that they
could not eat. This proved to be one of the scourges of early navigation--the result of too
much salted food on the high seas, and no cure was found till the days of Captain Cook. Arrived
at Mozambique--a low-lying coral island--they found no less than four ocean-going ships belonging
to Arab traders laden with gold, silver, cloves, pepper, ginger, rubies, and pearls from the East.

There were rumours, too, of a land belonging to Prester John where precious stones and spices
were so plentiful that they could be collected in baskets. His land could only be reached by
camels. "This information rendered us so happy that we cried with joy, and prayed God to grant
us health that we might behold what we so desired," relates the faithful journal. But difficulties
and delays prevented their reaching the ever-mythical land of Prester John. Their next landing-place
was Mombasa. Here they were nearly killed by some treacherous Mohammedans, who hated these
"dogs of Christians" as they called them. And the Portuguese were glad to sail on to Melindi,
where the tall, whitewashed houses standing round the bay, with their coco-palms, maize fields,
and hop gardens, reminded them of one of their own cities on the Tagus. Here all was friendly.
The King of Melindi sent three sheep and free leave for the strangers to enter the port. Vasco,
in return, sent the King a cassock, two strings of coral, three washhand basins, a hat, and
some bells. Whereupon the King, splendidly dressed in a damask robe with green satin and an
embroidered turban, allowed himself to be rowed out to the flagship. He was protected from
the sun by a crimson satin umbrella.

Nine days were pleasantly passed in the port at Melindi, and then, with a Christian pilot provided
by the King, the most thrilling part of the voyage began with a start across the Arabian Gulf
to the west coast of India. For twenty-three days the ships sailed to the north-east, with
no land visible. Suddenly the dim outline of land was sighted and the whole crew rushed on
deck to catch the first glimpse of the unknown coast of India. They had just discerned the
outline of lofty mountains, when a thunderstorm burst over the land and a downpour of heavy
rain blotted out the view.

At last on 21st May--nearly eleven months after the start from Portugal--the little Portuguese
ships anchored off Calicut.

"What has brought you hither?" cried the natives, probably surprised at their foreign dress;
"and what seek ye so far from home?"

"We are in search of Christians and spice," was the ready answer.

"A lucky venture. Plenty of emeralds. You owe great thanks to God for having brought you to
a country holding such riches," was the Mohammedan answer.

"The city of Calicut," runs the diary, "is inhabited by Christians. They are of a tawny complexion.
Some of them have big beards and long hair, whilst others clip their hair short as a sign that
they are Christians. They also wear moustaches."

Within the town, merchants lived in wooden houses thatched with palm leaves. It must have been
a quaint sight to see Vasco da Gama, accompanied by thirteen of his Portuguese, waving the
flag of their country, carried shoulder high through the densely crowded streets of Calicut
on his way to the chief temple and on to the palace of the King. Roofs and windows were thronged
with eager spectators anxious to see these Europeans from so far a country. Many a scuffle
took place outside the palace gates; knives were brandished, and men were injured before the
successful explorer reached the King of Calicut. The royal audience took place just before
sunset on 28th May 1498. The King lay on a couch covered with green velvet under a gilt canopy,
while Vasco da Gama related an account of Portugal and his King, the "lord of many countries
and the possessor of great wealth exceeding that of any King of these parts, adding that for
sixty years the Portuguese had been trying to find the sea-route to India. The King gave leave
for the foreigners to barter their goods, but the Indians scoffed at their offer of hats, scarlet
hoods, coral, sugar, and oil.

"That which I ask of you is gold, silver, corals, and scarlet cloth," said the King, "for my
country is rich in cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and precious stones."

Vasco da Gama left India with a scant supply of Christians and spices, but with his great news
he now hurried back to Portugal. What if he had lost his brother Paul and over one hundred
of his men after his two years' absence, he had discovered the ocean-route to India--a discovery
more far-reaching than he had any idea of at this time.

"And the King," relates the old historian, "overjoyed at his coming, sent a Nobleman and several
Gentlemen to bring him to Court; where, being arrived through Crowds of Spectators, he was
received with extraordinary honour. For this Glorious Price of Service, the Privilege of being
called Don was annexed to his Family: To his Arms was added Part of the King's. He had a Pension
of three thousand Ducats yearly, and he was afterwards presented to greater Honours for his
Services in the Indies, where he will soon appear again."

CHAPTER XXV

DISCOVERY OF THE SPICE ISLANDS

It was but natural that the Portuguese, flushed with victory, should at once dispatch another
expedition to India.

Was there some vexation in the heart of the "Admiral of India" when the command of the new
fleet was given to Pedro Cabral? History is silent. Anyhow, in the March of 1500 we find this
"Gentleman of Great Merit" starting off with thirteen powerfully armed ships and some fifteen
hundred men, among them the veteran explorer Bartholomew Diaz, a party of eight Franciscan
friars to convert the Mohammedans, eight chaplains, skilled gunners, and merchants to buy and
sell in the King's name at Calicut. The King himself accompanied Cabral to the waterside. He
had already adopted the magnificent title, "King, by the Grace of God, of Portugal, and of
the Algarves, both on this side the sea and beyond it in Africa, Lord of Guinea and of the
Conquest, Navigation, and Commerce of Ethiopia, Arabia, Persia, and India."

Then Cabral, flying a banner with the royal arms of Portugal, started on a voyage which was
to secure for Portugal "an empire destined to be richer and greater than all her dominions
in Asia." Sailing far to the west, he fell in with the South American continent and was carried
to a new land. The men went on shore and brought word that "it was a fruitful country, full
of trees and well inhabited. The people were swarthy and used bows and arrows." That night
a storm arose and they ran along the coast to seek a port. Here Mass was said and parrots exchanged
for paper and cloth. Then Cabral erected a cross (which was still shown when Lindley visited
Brazil three hundred years later) and named the country the "Land of the Holy Cross." This
name was, however, discarded later when the new-found land was identified with Brazil already
sighted by Pinzon in one of the ships of Christopher Columbus.

Meanwhile, unconscious of the importance of this discovery, Cabral sailed on towards the Cape
of Good Hope. There is no time to tell of the great comet that appeared, heralding a terrific
storm that suddenly burst upon the little fleet. In the darkness and tempest four ships went
down with all hands--amongst them old Bartholomew Diaz, the discoverer of the Cape of Good
Hope, who thus perished in the waters he had been the first to navigate.

September found Cabral at last at anchor off Calicut. He found the King yet more resplendent
than Vasco da Gama the year before. The old historians revel in their descriptions of him.
"On his Head was a Cap of Cloth of Gold, at his Ears hung Jewels, composed of Diamonds, Sapphires,
and Pearls, two of which were larger than Walnuts. His Arms, from the Elbow to the Wrist and
from the knees downwards, were loaded with bracelets set with infinite Precious Stones of great
Value. His Fingers and Toes were covered with Rings. In that on his great Toe was a large Rubie
of a surprising Lustre. Among the rest there was a Diamond bigger than a large Bean. But all
this was nothing, in comparison to the Richness of his Girdle, made with precious stones set
in Gold, which cast a Lustre that dazzled every Body's Eyes."

He allowed Cabral to establish a depot at Calicut for European goods, so a house was selected
by the waterside and a flag bearing the arms of Portugal erected on the top. For a time all
went well, but the Mohammedans proved to be difficult customers, and disputes soon arose. A
riot took place; the infuriated native traders stormed the depot and killed the Portuguese
within. Cabral in revenge bombarded the city, and, leaving the wooden houses in flames, he
sailed away to Cochin and Cananor on the coast of Malabar. Soon after this he returned home
with only six out of the thirteen ships, and from this time he disappears from the pages of
history.

Just before his return, the King of Portugal, thinking trade was well established between India
and his own country, dispatched a "valiant gentleman" in command of four ships to carry merchandise
to the newly discovered country. But his voyage and adventures are only important inasmuch
as he discovered the island of Ascension when outward bound and the island of St. Helena on
the way home. So favourable was the account of this island that all Portugal admirals were
ordered for the future to touch there for refreshments.

The news of Cabral's adventures at Calicut inspired a yet larger expedition to the East, and
Vasco da Gama, now Admiral of the Eastern seas, was given command of some fifteen ships which
sailed from the Tagus in February 1502. The expedition, though avowedly Christian, was characterised
by injustice and cruelty. Near the coast of Malabar the Portuguese fleet met with a large ship
full of Mohammedan pilgrims from Mecca. The wealth on board was known to be enormous, and Don
Vasco commanded the owners to yield up their riches to the King of Portugal. This they somewhat
naturally refused to do. Whereupon the Portuguese fired, standing calmly to watch the blazing
ships with their human freight of men, women, and children. True, one historian declares that
all the children were removed to the Portuguese ship to be converted into good little Catholics.
Another is more nearly concerned with the money. "We took a Mecca ship on board of which were
three hundred and eighty men and many women and children, and we took from it fully twelve
thousand ducats, with goods worth at least another ten thousand. And we burned the ship and
all the people on board with gunpowder on the first day of October."

Their instructions to banish every Mohammedan in Calicut was faithfully obeyed. Don Vasco seized
and hanged a number of helpless merchants quietly trading in the harbour. Cutting off their
heads, hands, and feet, he had them flung into a boat, which was allowed to drift ashore, with
a cruel suggestion that the severed limbs would make an Indian curry. Once more Calicut was
bombarded and Don Vasco sailed on to other ports on the Malabar coast, where he loaded his
ships with spices taken from poor folk who dared not refuse. He then sailed home again, reaching
Portugal "safe and sound, Deo gratias," but leaving behind him hatred and terror and a very
quaint idea of these Christians who felt it their duty to exterminate all followers of Mohammed.

Conquest usually succeeds discovery, and the Portuguese, having discovered the entire coast
of West, South, and a good deal of East Africa and western coast of India, now proceeded to
conquer it for their own. It was a far cry from Portugal to India in these days, and the isolated
depots on the coast of Malabar were obviously in danger, when the foreign ships laden with
spoil left their shores. True, Vasco da Gama had left six little ships this time under Sodrez
to cruise about the Indian seas, but Sodrez wanted treasure, so he cruised northwards and found
the southern coasts of Arabia as well as the island of Socotra. He had been warned of the tempestuous
seas that raged about these parts at certain seasons, but, heeding not the warning, he perished
with all his knowledge and treasure.

Expedition after expedition now left Portugal for the east coast of Africa and India. There
were the two cousins Albuquerque, who built a strong fort of wood and mud at Cochin, leaving
a garrison of one hundred and fifty trained soldiers under the command of one Pacheco, who
saved the fort and kept things going under great difficulties. On the return of Albuquerque,
the hero of Cochin, the King decided to appoint a Viceroy of India. He would fain have appointed
Tristan d'Acunha,--the discoverer of the island that still bears his name,--but he was suddenly
struck with blindness, and in his stead Dom Francisco Almeida, "a nobleman of courage and experience,"
sailed off with the title of Viceroy. Not only was he to conquer, but to command, not only
to sustain the sea-power of Portugal, but to form a government.

There is a story told of the ignorance of the men sent to man the ships under Almeida. So raw
were they that they hardly knew their right hand from their left, still less the difference
between starboard and larboard, till their captain hit on the happy notion of tying a bundle
of garlic over one side of the ship and a handful of onions over the other, so the pilot gave
orders to the helmsman thus: "Onion your helm!" or "Garlic your helm!"

On the way out, Almeida built a strong fortress near Zanzibar, organised a regular Portuguese
Indian pilot service, and established his seat of government at Cochin. Then he sent his son,
a daring youth of eighteen, to bombard the city of Quilon, whose people were constantly intriguing
against the Portuguese. Having carried out his orders, young Lorenzo, ordered to explore the
Maldive Islands, was driven by a storm to an "island opposite Cape Comorin, called Ceylon,
and separated from thence by a narrow sea," where he was warmly received by the native King,
whose dress sparkled with diamonds. Lorenzo erected here a marble pillar with the arms of Portugal
carved thereon and took possession of the island. He also sent back to Portugal the first elephant
ever sent thither.

Ceylon was now the farthest point which flew the flag of Portugal toward the east. Doubtless
young Lorenzo would have carried it farther, but he was killed at the early age of twenty-one,
his legs being shattered by a cannon-ball during a sea-fight. He sat by the mainmast and continued
to direct the fighting till a second shot ended his short but brilliant career. The Viceroy,
"whose whole being was centred in his devotion to his only son, received the tidings with outward
stoicism." "Regrets," he merely remarked, "regrets are for women."

Nevertheless he revenged the death of his son by winning a victory over the opposing fleet
and bidding his captains rejoice over "the good vengeance our Lord has been pleased, of His
mercy, to grant us."

But the days of Almeida were numbered. He had subdued the Indian coast, he had extended Portuguese
possessions in various directions, his term of office was over, and he was succeeded by the
famous Albuquerque, who had already distinguished himself in the service of Portugal by his
efforts to obtain Ormuz for the Portuguese. Now Viceroy of India, he found full scope for his
boundless energy and vast ambition. He first attacked Calicut and reduced it to ashes. Then
he turned his attention to Goa, which he conquered, and which became the commercial capital
of the Portuguese in India for the next hundred years. Not only this, but it was soon the wealthiest
city on the face of the earth and the seat of the government. Albuquerque's next exploit was
yet more brilliant and yet more important.

In 1509 he had sent a Portuguese explorer Sequira with a small squadron to make discoveries
in the East. He was to cross the Bay of Bengal and explore the coast of Malacca. Sequira reached
the coast and found it a centre for trade from east and west, "most rich and populous." But
he had reason to suspect the demonstrations of friendship by the king of these parts, and refused
to attend a festival prepared in his honour. This was fortunate, for some of his companions
who landed for trade were killed. He sailed about the island of Sumatra, "the first land in
which we knew of men's flesh being eaten by certain people in the mountains who gild their
teeth. In their opinion the flesh of the blacks is sweeter than that of whites." Many were
the strange tales brought back to Cochin by Sequira from the new lands--rivers of oil--hens
with flesh as black as ink--people with tails like sheep.

Anyhow, Albuquerque resolved that Malacca should belong to the Portuguese, and with nineteen
ships and fourteen hundred fighting men he arrived off the coast of Sumatra, spreading terror
and dismay among the multitudes that covered the shore. The work of destruction was short,
though the King of Pahang and King Mahomet came out in person on huge elephants to help in
the defence of their city. At last every inhabitant of the city was driven out or slain, and
the Portuguese plundered the city to their hearts' content. The old historian waxes eloquent
on the wealth of the city, and the laden ships started back, leaving a fort and a church under
the care of Portuguese conquerors. The amount of booty mattered little, as a violent storm
off the coast of Sumatra disposed of several ships and a good deal of treasure.

The fall of Malacca was one of vast importance to the Portuguese. Was it not the key to the
Eastern gate of the Indian Ocean--the gate through which the whole commerce of the Spice Islands,
the Philippines, Japan, and far Cathay passed on its road to the Mediterranean? Was it not
one of the largest trade markets in Asia, where rode the strange ships of many a distant shore?
The fame of Albuquerque spread throughout the Eastern world. But he was not content with Malacca.
The Spice Islands lay beyond--the Spice Islands with all their cloves and nutmegs and their
countless riches must yet be won for Portugal.

Up to this year, 1511, they had not been reached by the Portuguese. But now Francisco Serrano
was sent off from Malacca to explore farther. Skirting the north of Java, he found island after
island rich in cloves and nutmeg. So struck was he with his new discoveries that he wrote to
his friend Magellan: "I have discovered yet another new world larger and richer than that found
by Vasco da Gama."

It is curious to remember how vastly important was this little group of islands--now part of
the Malay Archipelago and belonging to the Dutch--to the explorers of the sixteenth century.
Strange tales as usual reached Portugal about these newly found lands. Here lived men with
"spurs on their ankles like cocks," hogs with horns, hens that laid their eggs nine feet under
ground, rivers with living fish, yet so hot that they took the skin off any man that bathed
in their waters, poisonous crabs, oysters with shells so large that they served as fonts for
baptizing children.

Truly these mysterious Spice Islands held more attractions for the Portuguese explorers than
did the New World of Columbus and Vespucci. Their possession meant riches and wealth and--this
was not the end. Was there not land beyond? Indeed, before the Spice Islands were conquered
by Portugal, trade had already been opened up with China and, before the century was half over,
three Portuguese seamen had visited Japan.

CHAPTER XXVI

BALBOA SEES THE PACIFIC OCEAN

It is said that Ferdinand Magellan, the hero of all geographical discovery, with his circumnavigation
of the whole round world, had cruised about the Spice Islands, but what he really knew of them
from personal experience no one knows. He had served under Almeida, and with Albuquerque had
helped in the conquest of Malacca. After seven years of a "vivid life of adventure by sea and
land, a life of siege and shipwreck, of war and wandering," inaction became impossible. He
busied himself with charts and the art of navigation. He dreamt of reaching the Spice Islands
by sailing west, and after a time he laid his schemes before the King of Portugal. Whether
he was laughed at as a dreamer or a fool we know not. His plans were received with cold refusal.
History repeats itself. Like Christopher Columbus twenty years before, Magellan now said good-bye
to Portugal and made his way to Spain.

Since the first discovery of the New World by Spain, that country had been busy sending out
explorer after explorer to discover and annex new portions of America. Bold navigators, Pinzon,
Mendoza, Bastidas, Juan de la Cosa, and Solis--these and others had almost completed the discovery
of the east coast, indeed, Solis might have been the first to see the great Pacific Ocean had
he not been killed and eaten at the mouth of the river La Plata. This great discovery was left
to Vasco Nunez de Balboa, who first saw beyond the strange New World from the Peak of Darien.
Now his discovery threw a lurid light on to the limitation of land that made up the new country
and illuminated the scheme of Magellan.

Balboa was "a gentleman of good family, great parts, liberal education, of a fine person, and
in the flower of his age." He had emigrated to the new Spanish colony of Hayti, where he had
got into debt. No debtor was allowed to leave the island, but Balboa, the gentleman of good
family, yearned for further exploration; he "yearned beyond the sky-line where the strange
roads go down." And one day the yearning grew so great that he concealed himself in a bread
cask on board a ship leaving the shores of Hayti. For some days he remained hidden. When the
ship was well out to sea he made his appearance. Angry, indeed, was the captain--so angry that
he threatened to land the stowaway on a desert island. He was, however, touched by the entreaties
of the crew, and Balboa was allowed to sail on in the ship. It was a fortunate decision, for
when, soon after, the ship ran heavily upon a rock, it was the Spanish stowaway Balboa who
saved the party from destruction. He led the shipwrecked crew to a river of which he knew,
named Darien by the Indians. He did not know that they stood on the narrow neck of land--the
isthmus of Panama--which connects North and South America. The account of the Spanish intrusion
is typical: "After having performed their devotions, the Spaniards fell resolutely on the Indians,
whom they soon routed, and then went to the town, which they found full of provisions to their
wish. Next day they marched up the country among the neighbouring mountains, where they found
houses replenished with a great deal of cotton, both spun and unspun, plates of gold in all
to the value of ten thousand pieces of fine gold."

A trade in gold was set up by Balboa, who became governor of the new colony formed by the Spaniards;
but the greed of these foreigners quite disgusted the native prince of these parts.

"What is this, Christians? Is it for such a little thing that you quarrel? If you have such
a love of gold, I will show you a country where you may fulfil your desires. You will have
to fight your way with great kings whose country is distant from our country six suns."

So saying, he pointed away to the south, where he said lay a great sea. Balboa resolved to
find this great sea. It might be the ocean sought by Columbus in vain, beyond which was the
land of great riches where people drank out of golden cups. So he collected some two hundred
men and started forth on an expedition full of doubt and danger. He had to lead his troops,
worn with fatigue and disease, through deep marshes rendered impassable with heavy rains, over
mountains covered with trackless forest, and through defiles from which the Indians showered
down poisoned arrows.

At last, led by native guides, Balboa and his men struggled up the side of a high mountain.
When near the top he bade his men stop. He alone must be the first to see the great sight that
no European had yet beheld. With "transports of delight" he gained the top and, "silent upon
a peak in Darien," he looked down on the boundless ocean, bathed in tropical sunshine. Falling
on his knees, he thanked God for his discovery of the Southern Sea. Then he called up his men.
"You see here, gentlemen and children mine, the end of our labours."

The notes of the "Te Deum" then rang out on the still summer air, and, having made a cross
of stones, the little party hurried to the shore. Finding two canoes, they sprang in, crying
aloud joyously that they were the first Europeans to sail on the new sea, whilst Balboa himself
plunged in, sword in hand, and claimed possession of the Southern Ocean for the King of Spain.
The natives told him that the land to the south was without end, and that it was possessed
by powerful nations who had abundance of gold. And Balboa thought this referred to the Indies,
knowing nothing as yet of the riches of Peru.

It is melancholy to learn that the man who made this really great discovery was publicly hanged
four years later in Darien. But his news had reached Magellan. There was then a great Southern
Ocean beyond the New World. He was more certain than ever now that by this sea he could reach
the Spice Islands. Moreover, he persuaded the young King of Spain that his country had a right
to these valuable islands, and promised that he would conduct a fleet round the south of the
great new continent westward to these islands. His proposal was accepted by Charles V., and
the youthful Spanish monarch provided Spanish ships for the great enterprise. The voyage was
not popular, the pay was low, the way unknown, and in the streets of Seville the public crier
called for volunteers. Hence it was a motley crew of some two hundred and eighty men, composed
of Spaniards, Portuguese, Genoese, French, Germans, Greeks, Malays, and one Englishman only.
There were five ships. "They are very old and patched," says a letter addressed to the King
of Portugal, "and I would be sorry to sail even for the Canaries in them, for their ribs are
soft as butter."

Magellan hoisted his flag on board the Trinidad of one hundred and ten tons' burden. The largest
ship, S. Antonio, was captained by a Spaniard--Cartagena; the Conception, ninety tons, by Gaspar
Quesada; the Victoria of eighty-five tons, who alone bore home the news of the circumnavigation
of the world, was at first commanded by the traitor Mendoza; and the little Santiago, seventy-five
tons, under the brother of Magellan's old friend Serrano.

What if the commander himself left a young wife and a son of six months old? The fever of discovery
was upon him, and, flying the Spanish flag for the first time in his life, Magellan, on board
the Trinidad, led his little fleet away from the shores of Spain. He never saw wife or child
again. Before three years had passed all three were dead.

Carrying a torch or faggot of burning wood on the poop, so that the ships should never lose
sight of it, the Trinidad sailed onwards.

"Follow the flagship and ask no questions."

Such were his instructions to his not too loyal captains.

CHAPTER XXVII

MAGELLAN SAILS ROUND THE WORLD

They had left Seville on 20th September 1519. A week later they were at the Canaries. Then
past Cape Verde, and land faded from their sight as they made for the south-west. For some
time they had a good run in fine weather. Then "the upper air burst into life" and a month
of heavy gales followed. The Italian count, who accompanied the fleet, writes long accounts
of the sufferings of the crew during these terrific Atlantic storms.

"During these storms," he says, "the body of St. Anselm appeared to us several times; one night
that it was very dark on account of the bad weather the saint appeared in the form of a fire
lighted at the summit of the mainmast and remained there near two hours and a half, which comforted
us greatly, for we were in tears only expecting the hour of perishing; and, when that holy
light was going away from us, it gave out so great a brilliancy in the eyes of each, that we
were like people blinded and calling out for mercy. For without any doubt nobody hoped to escape
from that storm."

Two months of incessant rain and diminished rations added to their miseries. The spirit of
mutiny now began to show itself. Already the Spanish captains had murmured against the Portuguese
commander.

"Be they false men or true, I will fear them not; I will do my appointed work," said the commander
firmly.

It was not till November that they made the coast of Brazil in South America, already sighted
by Cabral and explored by Pinzon. But the disloyal captains were not satisfied, and one day
the captain of the S. Antonio boarded the flagship and openly insulted Magellan. He must have
been a little astonished when the Portuguese commander seized him by the collar, exclaiming:
"You are my prisoner!" giving him into custody and appointing another in his place.

Food was now procurable, and a quantity of sweet pine-apples must have had a soothing effect
on the discontented crews. The natives traded on easy terms. For a knife they produced four
or five fowls; for a comb, fish for ten men; for a little bell, a basket full of sweet potatoes.
A long drought had preceded Magellan's visit to these parts, but rain now began with the advent
of the strangers, and the natives made sure that they had brought it with them. Such an impression
once made there was little difficulty in converting them to the Christian faith. The natives
joined in prayer with the Spaniards, "remaining on their knees with their hands joined in great
reverence so that it was a pleasure to see them," writes one of the party.

The day after Christmas again found them sailing south by the coast, and early in the New Year
they anchored at the mouth of the Rio de la Plata, where Solis had lost his life at the hands
of the cannibals some five years before. He had succeeded Vespucci in the service of Spain,
and was exploring the coast when a body of Indians, "with a terrible cry and most horrible
aspect," suddenly rushed out upon them, killed, roasted, and devoured them.

Through February and March, Magellan led his ships along the shores of bleak Patagonia seeking
for an outlet for the Spice Islands. Winter was coming on and no straits had yet been found.
Storm after storm now burst over the little ships, often accompanied by thunder and lightning;
poops and forecastles were carried away, and all expected destruction, when "the holy body
of St. Anselm appeared and immediately the storm ceased."

It was quite impossible to proceed farther to the unknown south, so, finding a safe and roomy
harbour, Magellan decided to winter there. Port St. Julian he named it, and he knew full well
that there they must remain some four or five months. He put the crew on diminished rations
for fear the food should run short before they achieved their goal. This was the last straw.
Mutiny had long been smouldering. The hardships of the voyage, the terrific Atlantic storms,
the prospect of a long Antarctic winter of inaction on that wild Patagonian coast--these alone
caused officers and men to grumble and to demand an immediate return to Spain.

But the "stout heart of Magellan" was undaunted.

On Easter Day the mutiny began. Two of the Spanish captains boarded the S. Antonio, seized
the Portuguese captain thereof, and put him in chains. Then stores were broken open, bread
and wine generously handed round, and a plot hatched to capture the flagship, kill Magellan,
seize his faithful Serrano, and sail home to Spain.

The news reached Magellan's ears. He at once sent a messenger with five men bearing hidden
arms to summon the traitor captain on board the flagship. Of course he stoutly refused. As
he did so, the messenger sprang upon him and stabbed him dead. As the rebellious captain fell
dead on the deck of his ship, the dazed crew at once surrendered. Thus Magellan by his prompt
measures quelled a mutiny that might have lost him the whole expedition. No man ever tried
to mutiny again while he lived and commanded.

The fleet had been two whole months in the Port S. Julian without seeing a single native.

"However, one day, without any one expecting it, we saw a giant, who was on the shore of the
sea, dancing and leaping and singing. He was so tall that the tallest of us only came up to
his waist; he was well built; he had a large face, painted red all round, and his eyes also
were painted yellow around them, and he had two hearts painted on his cheeks; he had but little
hair on his head and it was painted white."

The great Patagonian giant pointed to the sky to know whether these Spaniards had descended
from above. He was soon joined by others evidently greatly surprised to see such large ships
and such little men. Indeed, the heads of the Spaniards hardly reached the giants' waists,
and they must have been greatly astonished when two of them ate a large basketful of biscuits
and rats without skinning them and drank half a bucket of water at each sitting.

With the return of spring weather in October 1520, Magellan led the little fleet upon its way.
He was rewarded a few days later by finding the straits for which he and others had been so
long searching.

"It was the straight," says the historian simply, "now cauled the straight of Magellans."

A struggle was before them. For more than five weeks the Spanish mariners fought their way
through the winding channels of the unknown straits. On one side rose high mountains covered
with snow. The weather was bad, the way unknown. Do we wonder to read that "one of the ships
stole away privily and returned into Spain," and the remaining men begged piteously to be taken
home? Magellan spoke "in measured and quiet tones": "If I have to eat the leather of the ships'
yards, yet will I go on and do my work." His words came truer than he knew. On the southern
side of the strait constant fires were seen, which led Magellan to give the land the name it
bears to-day--Tierra del Fuego. It was not visited again for a hundred years.

At last the ships fought their way to the open sea--Balboa's Southern Ocean--and "when the
Captain Magellan was past the strait and saw the way open to the other main sea he was so glad
thereof that for joy the tears fell from his eyes."

The expanse of calm waters seemed so pleasant after the heavy tiring storms that he called
the still waters before him the Pacific Ocean. Before following him across the unknown waters,
let us recall the quaint lines of Camoens--

   "Along these regions, from the burning zone
    To deepest south, he dares the course unknown.
    A land of giants shall his eyes behold,
    Of camel strength, surpassing human mould;
    And, onward still, thy fame his proud heart's guide,
    Beneath the southern stars' cold gleam he braves
    And stems the whirls of land-surrounded waves,
    For ever sacred to the hero's fame,
    These foaming straits shall bear his deathless name.
    Through these dread jaws of rock he presses on
    Another ocean's breast, immense, unknown,
    Beneath the south's cold wings, unmeasur'd, wide,
    Received his vessels, through the dreary tide,
    In darkling shades, where never man before
    Heard the waves howl, he dares the nameless shore."

Three little ships had now emerged, battered and worn, manned by crews gaunt and thin and shivering.
Magellan took a northerly course to avoid the intense cold, before turning to cross the strange
obscure ocean, which no European had yet realised. Just before Christmas the course was altered
and the ships were turned to the north-west, in which direction they expected soon to find
the Spice Islands. No one had any idea of the vastness of the Pacific Ocean.

"Well was it named the Pacific," remarks the historian, "for during three months and twenty
days we met with no storm."

Two months passed away, and still they sailed peacefully on, day after day, week after week,
across a waste of desolate waters.

   "Alone, alone, all, all alone,
    Alone on a wide, wide sea."

At last one January day they sighted a small wooded island, but it was uninhabited; they named
it S. Paul's Island and passed on their way. They had expected to find the shores of Asia close
by those of America. The size of the world was astounding. Another island was passed. Again
no people, no consolation, only many sharks. There was bitter disappointment on board. They
had little food left. These hides we exposed to the sun first to soften them by putting them
overboard for four or five days, after which we put them on the embers and ate them thus. We
had also to make use of sawdust for food, and rats became a great delicacy." No wonder scurvy
broke out in its worst form--nineteen died and thirteen lay too ill to work.

For ninety-eight days they sailed across the unknown sea, "a sea so vast that the human mind
can scarcely grasp it," till at last they came on a little group of islands peopled with savages
of the lowest type--such expert thieves that Magellan called the new islands the Ladrones or
isle of robbers. Still, there was fresh food here, and the crews were greatly refreshed before
they sailed away. The food came just too late to save the one Englishman of the party--Master
Andrew of Bristol--who died just as they moved away. Then they found the group afterwards known
as the Philippines (after Philip II. of Spain). Here were merchants from China, who assured
Magellan that the famous Spice Islands were not far off. Now Magellan had practically accomplished
that he set out to do, but he was not destined to reap the fruits of his victory.

With a good supply of fresh food the sailors grew better, and Magellan preferred cruising about
the islands, making friends of the natives and converting them to Christianity, to pushing
on for the Spice Islands. Here was gold, too, and he busied himself making the native rulers
pay tribute to Spain. Easter was drawing near, and the Easter services were performed on one
of the islands. A cross and a crown of thorns was set upon the top of the highest mountain
that all might see it and worship. Thus April passed away and Magellan was still busy with
Christians and gold. But his enthusiasm carried him too far. A quarrel arose with one of the
native kings. Magellan landed with armed men, only to be met by thousands of defiant natives.
A desperate fight ensued. Again and again the explorer was wounded, till "at last the Indians
threw themselves upon him with iron-pointed bamboo spears and every weapon they had and ran
him through--our mirror, our light, our comforter, our true guide--until they killed him."

Such was the tragic fate of Ferdinand Magellan, "the greatest of ancient and modern navigators,"
tragic because, after dauntless resolution and unwearied courage, he died in a miserable skirmish
at the last on the very eve of victory.

With grief and despair in their hearts, the remaining members of the crew, now only one hundred
and fifteen, crowded on to the Trinidad and Victoria for the homeward voyage. It was September
1522 when they reached the Spice Islands--the goal of all their hopes. Here they took on board
some precious cloves and birds of Paradise, spent some pleasant months, and, laden with spices,
resumed their journey. But the Trinidad was too overladen with cloves and too rotten to undertake
so long a voyage till she had undergone repair, so the little Victoria alone sailed for Spain
with sixty men aboard to carry home their great and wonderful news. Who shall describe the
terrors of that homeward voyage, the suffering, starvation, and misery of the weary crew? Man
after man drooped and died, till by the time they reached the Cape Verde Islands there were
but eighteen left.

When the welcome shores of Spain at length appeared, eighteen gaunt, famine-stricken survivors,
with their captain, staggered ashore to tell their proud story of the first circumnavigation
of the world by their lost commander, Ferdinand Magellan.

We miss the triumphal return of the conqueror, the audience with the King of Spain, the heaped
honours, the crowded streets, the titles, and the riches. The proudest crest ever granted by
a sovereign--the world, with the words: "Thou hast encompassed me"--fell to the lot of Del
Cano, the captain who brought home the little Victoria. For Magellan's son was dead, and his
wife Beatrix, "grievously sorrowing," had passed away on hearing the news of her husband's
tragic end.

CHAPTER XXVIII

CORTES EXPLORES AND CONQUERS MEXICO

One would have thought that the revelation of this immense sheet of water on the far side of
America would have drawn other explorers to follow, but news was slowly assimilated in those
days, and it was not till fifty-three years later that the Pacific was crossed a second time
by Sir Francis Drake.

In the maps of the day, Newfoundland and Florida were both placed in Asia, while Mexico was
identified with the Quinsay of Marco Polo. For even while Magellan was fighting the gales of
the Atlantic en route for his long-sought strait, another strange and wonderful country was
being unveiled and its unsurpassed wealth laid at the feet of Spain. The starting-place for
further Spanish exploration had been, from the days of Columbus, the West Indies. From this
centre, the coast of Florida had been discovered in 1513; from here, the same year, Balboa
had discovered the Pacific Ocean; from here in 1517 a little fleet was fitted out under Francisco
Hernando de Cordova, "a man very prudent and courageous and strongly disposed to kill and kidnap
Indians." As pilot he had been with Columbus on his fourth voyage some fourteen years before.
He suggested that his master had heard rumours of land to the West, and sure enough, after
sailing past the peninsula of Yucatan, they found signs of the Eastern civilisation so long
sought in vain.

"Strange-looking towers or pyramids, ascended by stone steps, greeted their eyes, and the people
who came out in canoes to watch the ships were clad in quilted cotton doublets and wore cloaks
and brilliant plumes."

They had heard of the Spaniards. Indeed, only one hundred miles of sea divided Yucatan from
Cuba, and they were anything but pleased to see these strangers off their coast.

"Couez cotoche" (Come to my house), they cried, for which reason Cordova called the place Cape
Catoche, as it is marked in our maps to-day. Along the coast sailed the Spaniards to a place
called by the Indians Quimpeche, now known as Campechy Bay. They were astonished to find how
civilised were these natives, and how unlike any others they had met in these parts. But the
inhabitants resented the landing of Cordova and his men, and with arrows and stones and darts
they killed or wounded a great number of Spaniards, including the commander himself, who sent
an account of his voyage to the Governor of Cuba and died a few days later.

His information was interesting and inspiring, and soon young Juan Grijalva was on his way
to the same land, accompanied by "two hundred and fifty stout soldiers" and the old pilot,
Alvarado, who had led both Columbus and Cordova. Grijalva explored for the first time the coast
of this great new country.

"Mexico, Mexico," repeated the Indians with whom they conversed. Gold, too, was produced, gold
ornaments, gold workmanship, until the young and handsome Grijalva was fitted out completely
with a complete suit of gold armour. He returned enthusiastic over the new land where lived
a powerful ruler over many cities. Surely this was none other than the Great Khan of Marco
Polo fame, with the riches and magnificence of an Eastern potentate--a land worthy of further
exploration.

The conqueror of Mexico now comes upon the scene--young, bold, devout, unscrupulous, "a respectable
gentleman of good birth"--Hernando Cortes. Great was the enthusiasm in Cuba to join the new
expedition to the long-lost lands of the Great Khan; men sold their lands to buy horses and
arms, pork was salted, armour was made, and at last Cortes, a plume of feathers and a gold
medal in his cap, erected on board his ship a velvet flag with the royal arms embroidered in
gold and the words: "Brothers, follow the cross in faith, for under its guidance we shall conquer."

His address to his men called forth their devotion: "I hold out to you a glorious prize, but
it is to be won by incessant toil. Great things are achieved only by great exertions, and glory
was never the reward of sloth. If I have laboured hard and staked my all on this undertaking,
it is for the love of that renown, which is the noblest recompense of man. But if any among
you covet riches more, be but true to me, as I will make you masters of such as our countrymen
have never dreamed of. You are few in number, but strong in resolution; doubt not but that
the Almighty, who has never deserted the Spaniard in his contest with the infidel, will shield
you, for your cause is a just cause, and you are to fight under the banner of the Cross."

In this spirit of enthusiasm the fleet sailed from the shores of Cuba on 18th February 1519,
and was soon on its way to the land of Mexico. The pilot Alvarado was with this expedition
also. Rounding Cape Catoche and coasting along the southern shores of Campechy Bay, with a
pleasant breeze blowing off the shore, Cortes landed with all his force--some five hundred
soldiers--on the very spot where now stands the city of Vera Cruz. "Little did the conqueror
imagine that the desolate beach on which he first planted his foot was one day to be covered
by a flourishing city, the great mart of European and Oriental trade--the commercial capital
of New Spain."

On a wide, level plain Cortes encamped, his soldiers driving in stakes and covering them with
boughs to protect themselves from the scorching rays of the fierce, tropical sun. Natives came
down to the shore, bringing their beautiful featherwork cloaks and golden ornaments. Cortes
had brought presents for the great King--the Khan as he thought--and these he sent with a message
that he had come from the King of Spain and greatly desired an audience with the Great Khan.
The Indians were greatly surprised to hear that there was another King in the world as powerful
as their Montezuma, who was more god than king, who ate from dishes of gold, on whose face
none dared look, in whose presence none dared speak without leave.

To impress the messengers of the King, Cortes ordered his soldiers to go through some of their
military exercises on the wet sands.

To the intense surprise of the Spaniards, these messengers sketched the whole scene on canvas
with their pencils, not forgetting the Spanish ships or "water-houses" as they called them,
with their dark hulls and snow-white sails reflected in the water as they swung lazily at anchor.

Then they returned to the King and related the strange doings of the white strangers who had
landed on their shores; they showed him their picture-writing, and Montezuma, king of the great
Mexican empire which stretched from sea to sea, was "sore troubled." He refused to see the
Spaniards--the distance of his capital was too great, since the journey was beset with difficulties.
But the presents he sent were so gorgeous, so wonderful, that Cortes resolved to see for himself
the city which produced such wealth, whatever its ruler might decree. Here was a plate of gold
as large as a coach wheel representing the sun, one in silver even larger, representing the
moon; there were numbers of golden toys representing dogs, lions, tigers, apes, ducks, and
wonderful plumes of green feathers.

The man who had sailed across two thousand leagues of ocean held lightly the idea of a short
land journey, however difficult, and Cortes began his preparations for the march to Mexico.
He built the little settlement at Vera Cruz, "The Rich Town of the True Cross," on the seashore
as a basis for operations. Although the wealth allured them, there were many who viewed with
dismay the idea of the long and dangerous march into the heart of a hostile land. After all
they were but a handful of men pitted against a powerful nation. Murmurs arose which reached
the ears of Cortes. He was equal to the occasion and resolutely burnt all the ships in the
harbour save one. Then panic ensued. Mutiny threatened.

"I have chosen my part!" cried Cortes. "I will remain here while there is one to bear me company.
If there be any so craven as to shrink from sharing the dangers of our glorious enterprise,
let them go home. There is still one vessel left. Let them take that and return to Cuba. They
can tell there how they have deserted their commander and their comrades, and patiently wait
till we return loaded with the spoils of Mexico."

He touched the right chord. Visions of future wealth and glory rose again before them, confidence
in their leader revived, and, shouting bravely, "To Mexico! to Mexico!" the party started off
on their perilous march. It was 16th August 1519 when the little army, "buoyant with high hopes
and lofty plans of conquest," set forth. The first part of the way lay through beautiful country
rich in cochineal and vanilla, with groves of many-coloured birds and "insects whose enamelled
wings glistened like diamonds in the blazing sun of the tropics."

Then came the long and tedious ascent of the Cordilleras leading to the tableland of Mexico.
Higher and higher grew the mountains. Heavy falls of sleet and hail, icy winds, and driving
rain drenched the little Spanish party as they made their way bravely upwards, till at last
they reached the level of seven thousand feet to find the great tableland rolling out along
the crest of the Cordilleras.

Hitherto they had met with no opposition among the natives they had met. Indeed, as the little
army advanced, it was often found that the inhabitants of the country fled awestruck from before
them. Now the reason was this. The Mexicans believed in a god called the Bird-Serpent, around
whom many a legend had grown up. Temples had been built in his honour and horrible human sacrifices
offered to appease him, for was he not the Ruler of the Winds, the Lord of the Lightning, the
Gatherer of the Clouds? But the bright god had sailed away one day, saying he would return
with fair-skinned men to possess the land in the fulness of time. Surely, then, the time had
come and their god had come again. Here were the fair-skinned men in shining armour marching
back to their own again, and Cortes at their head--was he not the god himself? The cross, too,
was a Mexican symbol, so Cortes was allowed to put it up in the heathen temples without opposition.

The inhabitants of Tlascala--fierce republicans who refused to own the sway of Montezuma--alone
offered resistance, and how Cortes fought and defeated them with his handful of men is truly
a marvel.

It was three months before they reached the goal of all their hopes--even the golden city of
Mexico. The hardships and horrors of the march had been unsurpassed, but as the beautiful valley
of Mexico unfolded itself before them in the early light of a July morning, the Spaniards shouted
with joy: "It is the promised land! Mexico! Mexico!"

"Many of us were disposed to doubt the reality of the scene before us and to suspect we were
in a dream," says one of the party. "I thought we had been transported by magic to the terrestrial
paradise."

Water, cultivated plains, shining cities with shadowy hills beyond lay like some gorgeous fairyland
before and below them. At every step some new beauty appeared in sight, and the wonderful City
of the Waters with its towers and shining palaces arose out of the surrounding mists.

The city was approached by three solid causeways some five miles long. It was crowded with
spectators "eager to behold such men and animals as had never been seen in that part of the world."

At any moment the little army of four hundred and fifty Spaniards might have been destroyed,
surrounded as they were by overwhelming numbers of hostile Indian foes. It was a great day
in the history of European discovery, when the Spaniard first set foot in the capital of the
Western world. Everywhere was evidence of a crowded and thriving population and a high civilisation.
At the walls of the city they were met by Montezuma himself. Amid a crowd of Indian nobles,
preceded by officers of state bearing golden wands, was the royal palanquin blazing with burnished
gold. It was borne on the shoulders of the nobles, who, barefooted, walked slowly with eyes
cast to the ground. Descending from his litter, Montezuma then advanced under a canopy of gaudy
featherwork powdered with jewels and fringed with silver. His cloak and sandals were studded
with pearls and precious stones among which emeralds were conspicuous. Cortes dismounted, greeted
the King, and spoke of his mission to the heathen and of his master, the mighty ruler of Spain.
Everywhere Cortes and his men were received with friendship and reverence, for was he not the
long-lost Child of the Sun? The Spanish explorer begged Montezuma to give up his idols and
to stop his terrible human sacrifices. The King somewhat naturally refused. Cortes grew angry.
He was also very anxious. He felt the weakness of his position, the little handful of men in
this great populous city, which he had sworn to win for Spain. The King must go. "Why do we
waste time on this barbarian? Let us seize him and, if he resists, plunge our swords into his
body!" cried the exasperated commander.

This is no place for the pathetic story of Montezuma's downfall. Prescott's Conquest of Mexico
is within the reach of all. It tells of the Spanish treachery, of the refusal of the Mexican
ruler to accept the new faith, of his final appeal to his subjects, of chains, degradation,
and death. It tells of the three great heaps of gold, pearls, and precious stones taken by
Cortes, of the final siege and conquest.

The news of this immense Mexican Empire, discovered and conquered for Spain, brought honours
from the King, Charles V., to the triumphant conqueror.

Nor did Cortes stop even after this achievement. As Governor and Captain-General of Mexico,
he sent off ships to explore the neighbouring coasts. Hearing that Honduras possessed rich
mines and that a strait into the Pacific Ocean might be found, Cortes led an expedition by
land. Arrived at Tabasco, he was provided with an Indian map of cotton cloth, whereon were
painted all the towns, rivers, mountains, as far as Nicaragua. With this map and the mariner's
compass, he led his army through gloomy woods so thick that no sun ever penetrated, and after
a march of one thousand miles reached the seacoast of Honduras, took over the country for Spain
to be governed with Mexico by himself.

This enormous tract of country was known to the world as "New Spain."

CHAPTER XXIX

EXPLORERS IN SOUTH AMERICA

The success of Cortes and his brilliant conquest of Mexico gave a new impulse to discovery
in the New World. The spirit of exploration dominated every adventurous young Spaniard, and
among those living in the West Indies there were many ready to give up all for the golden countries
in the West, rumours of which were always reaching their ears.

No sooner had these rich lands been realised than the news of Magellan's great voyage revealed
the breadth of the ocean between America and Asia, and destroyed for ever the idea that the
Spice Islands were near. Spanish enterprise, therefore, lay in the same direction as heretofore,
and we must relate the story of how Pizarro discovered Peru for the King of Spain. He had accompanied
Balboa to Darien, and had with him gazed out on to the unknown waters of the Pacific Ocean
below. With Balboa after crossing the isthmus of Darien he had reached Panama on the South
Sea, where he heard of a great nation far to the south. Like Mexico, it was spoken of as highly
civilised and rich in mines of gold and silver. Many an explorer would have started off straightway
for this new country, but there was a vast tract of dark forest and tangled underwood between
Panama and Peru, which had damped the ardour of even the most ardent of Spanish explorers.

But Pizarro was a man of courage and dauntless resolution, and he was ready to do and dare
the impossible. He made a bad start. A single ship with some hundred men aboard left Panama
under the command of Pizarro in 1526. He was ignorant of southern navigation, the Indians along
the shore were hostile, his men died one by one, the rich land of Peru was more distant than
they had thought, and, having at length reached the island of Gallo near the Equator, they
awaited reinforcements from Panama. Great, then, was the disappointment of Pizarro when only
one ship arrived and no soldiers. News of hardships and privations had spread through Panama,
and none would volunteer to explore Peru. By this time the handful of wretched men who had
remained with Pizarro, living on crabs picked up on the shore, begged to be taken home--they
could endure no longer. Then came one of those tremendous moments that lifts the born leader
of men above his fellows. Drawing his sword, Pizarro traced a line on the sand from east to
west. For my part, I go south."

So saying, he stepped across the line. Twelve stout-hearted men followed him. The rest turned
wearily homewards. The reduced but resolute little party then sailed south, and a voyage of
two days brought them within sight of the long-sought land of Peru. Communication with the
natives assured them that here was wealth and fortune to be made, and they hurried back to
Panama, whence Pizarro sailed for Spain, for permission to conquer the empire of Peru. It is
interesting to find Cortes contributing some of his immense wealth from Mexico towards this
new quest.

In February 1531 three small ships with one hundred and eighty soldiers and thirty-six horses
sailed south under Pizarro. It was not till the autumn of 1532 that he was ready to start on
the great march to the interior. A city called Cuzco was the capital--the Holy City with its
great Temple of the Sun, the most magnificent building in the New World, had never yet been
seen by Europeans. But the residence of the King was at Caxamalea, and this was the goal of
the Spaniards for the present.

Already the news was spreading through the land that "white and bearded strangers were coming
up from the sea, clad in shining panoply, riding upon unearthly monsters, and wielding deadly
thunderbolts."

Pizarro's march to the heart of Peru with a mere handful of men was not unlike that of Cortes'
expedition to Mexico. Both coveted the rich empire of unknown monarchs and dared all--to possess.
Between Pizarro and his goal lay the stupendous mountain range of the Andes or South American
Cordilleras, rock piled upon rock, their crests of everlasting snow glittering high in the
heavens. Across these and over narrow mountain passes the troops had now to pass. So steep
were the sides that the horsemen had to dismount and scramble up, leading their horses as best
they might. Frightful chasms yawned below them, terrific peaks rose above, and at any moment
they might be utterly destroyed by bodies of Peruvians in overwhelming numbers. It was bitterly
cold as they mounted higher and higher up the dreary heights, till at last they reached the
crest. Then began the descent--precipitous and dangerous--until after seven days of this the
valley of Caxamalea unrolled before their delighted eyes, and the little ancient city with
its white houses lay glittering in the sun. But dismay filled the stoutest heart when, spread
out below for the space of several miles, tents as thick as snowflakes covered the ground.
It was the Peruvian army. And it was too late to turn back. "So, with as bold a countenance
as we could, we prepared for our entrance into Caxamalea."

The Peruvians must already have seen the cavalcade of Spaniards, as with banners streaming
and armour glistening in the rays of the evening sun Pizarro led them towards the city. As
they drew near, the King, Atahualpa, covered with plumes of feathers and ornaments of gold
and silver blazing in the sun, was carried forth on a throne followed by thirty thousand men
to meet the strangers. It seemed to the Spanish leader that only one course was open. He must
seize the person of this great ruler at once. He waved his white scarf. Immediately the cavalry
charged and a terrible fight took place around the person of the ruler of Peru until he was
captured and taken prisoner. Atahualpa tried to regain his liberty by the offer of gold, for
he had discovered--amid all their outward show of religious zeal--a greed for wealth among
these strange white men from over the stormy seas. He suggested that he should fill with gold
the room in which he was confined as high as he could reach. Standing on tiptoe, he marked
the wall with his hand. Pizarro accepted the offer, and the Spaniards greedily watched the
arrival of their treasure from the roofs of palace and temple. They gained a sum of something
like three million sterling and then put the King to death. Pizarro was the conqueror of Peru,
and he had no difficulty in controlling the awestruck Peruvians, who regarded the relentless
Spaniards as supernatural--the Children of the Sun indeed.

A year later these Children of the Sun entered the old town of Cuzco--the capital of this rich
empire--where they found a city of treasure surpassing all expectation. Meanwhile Almagro,
one of the most prominent among the Spanish explorers, had been granted a couple of hundred
miles along the coast of Chili, which country he now penetrated; but the cold was so intense
that men and horses were frozen to death, while the Chilians, clad in skins, were difficult
to subdue. Almagro decided that Cuzco belonged to him, and miserable disputes followed between
him and Pizarro, ending in the tragic end of the veteran explorer, Almagro.

As the shiploads of gold reached the shores of Spain, more and more adventurers flocked over
to the New World. They swarmed into "Golden Castile," about the city of Panama, and journeyed
into the interior of the yet new and unknown world. There are terrible stories of their greed
and cruelty to the native Indians. One story says that the Indians caught some of these Spaniards,
tied their hands and feet together, threw them on the ground, and poured liquid gold into their
mouths, crying, "Eat, eat gold, Christian!"

Amongst other adventurers into South America at this time was Orellana, who crossed the continent
from ocean to ocean. He had accompanied one of Pizarro's brothers into the land of the cinnamon
forests, and with him had crossed the Andes in search of another golden kingdom beyond Quito.
The expedition under Pizarro, consisting of some three hundred and fifty Spaniards, half of
whom were horsemen, and four thousand Indians, set forward in the year 1540 to penetrate to
the remote regions in the Hinterland, on the far side of the Andes. Their sufferings were intense.
Violent thunderstorms and earthquakes terrified man and beast; the earth opened and swallowed
up five hundred houses; rain fell in such torrents as to flood the land and cut off all communication
between the explorers and cultivated regions; while crossing the lofty ridge of the Andes the
cold was so intense that numbers of the party were literally frozen to death. At length they
reached the land of the cinnamon trees, and, still pushing on, came to a river which must be
crossed to reach the land of gold. They had finished their provisions, and had nothing to subsist
on now save the wild fruit of the country. After following the course of the river for some
way, Pizarro decided to build a little vessel to search for food along the river. All set to
work, Pizarro and Orellana, one of his chief captains, working as hard as the men. They set
up a forge for making nails, and burnt charcoal with endless trouble owing to the heavy rains
which prevented the tinder from taking fire. They made nails from the shoes of the horses which
had been killed to feed the sick. For tar they used the resin from the trees, for oakum they
used blankets and old shirts. Then they launched the little home-made boat, thinking their
troubles would be at an end. For some four hundred miles they followed the course of the river,
but the supply of roots and berries grew scarcer and men perished daily from starvation. So
Pizarro ordered Orellana to go quickly down the river with fifty men to some inhabited land
of which they had heard, to fill the boat with provisions, and return.

Off started Orellana down the river, but no villages or cultivated lands appeared; nothing
was to be seen save flooded plains and gloomy, impenetrable forests. The river turned out to
be a tributary of a much larger river. It was, indeed, the great river Amazon. Orellana now
decided to go on down this great river and to desert Pizarro. True, his men were utterly weary,
the current was too strong for them to row against, and they had no food to bring to their
unhappy companions. There was likewise the possibility of reaching the kingdom of gold for
which they were searching. There were some among his party who objected strongly to the course
proposed by Orellana, to whom he responded by landing them on the edge of the dense forest
and there leaving them to perish of hunger. It was truly one of the greatest adventures of
the age, and historic, for here we get the word El Dorado, used for the first time in the history
of discovery--the legendary land of gold which was never found, but which attracted all the
Elizabethan sailors to this romantic country. It would take too long to tell how they had to
fight Indian tribes in their progress down the fast-flowing river, how they had to build a
new boat, making bellows of their leather buskins and manufacturing two thousand nails in twenty
days, how they found women on the banks of the river fighting as valiantly as men, and named
the new country the Amazon land, and how at long last, after incredible hardship, they reached
the sea in August 1541. They had navigated some two thousand miles. They now made their rigging
and ropes of grass and sails of blankets, and so sailed out into the open sea, reaching one
of the West India islands a few days later.

And the deserted Pizarro? Tired of waiting for Orellana, he made his way sorrowfully home,
arriving after two years' absence in Peru, with eighty men left out of four thousand three
hundred and fifty, all the rest having perished in the disastrous expedition. And so we must
leave the Spanish conquerors for the present, still exploring, still conquering, in these parts,
ever adding glory and riches to Spain. Indeed, Spain and Portugal, as we have seen, entirely
monopolise the horizon of geographical discovery till the middle of the sixteenth century,
when other nations enter the arena.

CHAPTER XXX

CABOT SAILS TO NEWFOUNDLAND

It was no longer possible for the Old World to keep secret the wealth of the New World. English
eyes were already straining across the seas, English hands were ready to grasp the treasure
that had been Spain's for the last fifty years. While Spain was sending Christopher Columbus
to and fro across the Atlantic to the West Indies, while Portugal was rejoicing in the success
of Vasco da Gama, John Cabot, in the service of England, was making his way from Bristol to
the New World. News of the first voyage of Columbus had been received by the Cabots--John and
his son Sebastian--with infinite admiration. They believed with the rest of the world that
the coast of China had been reached by sailing westward. Bristol was at this time the chief
seaport in England, and the centre of trade for the Iceland fisheries. The merchants of the
city had already ventured far on to the Atlantic, and various little expeditions had been fitted
out by the merchants for possible discovery westward, but one after another failed, including
the "most scientific mariner in all England," who started forth to find the island of Brazil
to the west of Ireland, but, after nine miserable weeks at sea, was driven back to Ireland
again by foul weather.

Now Columbus had crossed the Atlantic, Cabot got leave from the English King, Henry VII., "to
sail to the east, west, or north, with five ships carrying the English flag, to seek and discover
all the islands, countries, regions, or provinces of pagans in whatever part of the world."

Further, the King was to have one-fifth of the profits, and at all risks any conflict with
Spain must be avoided. Nothing daunted, Cabot started off to fulfil his lord's commands in
a tiny ship with eighteen men. We have the barest outlines of his proceedings. Practically
all is contained in this one paragraph. "In the year 1497 John Cabot, a Venetian, and his son
Sebastian discovered on the 24th of June, about five in the morning, that land to which no
person had before ventured to sail, which they named Prima Vista or first seen, because, as
I believe, it was the first part seen by them from the sea. The inhabitants use the skins and
furs of wild beasts for garments, which they hold in as high estimation as we do our finest
clothes. The soil yields no useful production, but it abounds in white bears and deer much
larger than ours. Its coasts produce vast quantities of large fish--great seals, salmons, soles
above a yard in length, and prodigious quantities of cod."

So much for the contemporary account of this historic voyage. A letter from England to Italy
describes the effect of the voyage on England. "The Venetian, our countryman, who went with
a ship from Bristol in quest of new islands, is returned and says that seven hundred leagues
hence he discovered land, the territory of the Great Khan. He coasted for three hundred leagues
and landed; he saw no human beings, but he has brought hither to the King certain snares which
had been set to catch game and a needle for making nets. He also found some felled trees. Wherefore
he supposed there were inhabitants, and returned to his ships in alarm. He was there three
months on the voyage, and on his return he saw two islands to starboard, but would not land,
time being precious, as he was short of provisions. He says the tides are slack and do not
flow as they do here. The King of England is much pleased with this intelligence. The King
has promised that in the spring our countryman shall have ten ships to his order, and at his
request has conceded to him all the prisoners to man his fleet. The King has also given him
money wherewith to amuse himself till then, and he is now at Bristol with his wife and sons.
His name is Cabot, and he is styled the great Admiral. Vast honour is paid to him; he dresses
in silk, and the English run after him like mad people."

Yet another letter of the time tells how "Master John Cabot has won a part of Asia without
a stroke of the sword." This Master John, too, "has the description of the world in a chart
and also in a solid globe which he has made, and he shows where he landed. And they say that
it is a good and temperate country, and they think that Brazil wood and silks grow there, and
they affirm that that sea is covered with fishes."

But "Master John" had set his heart on something greater. Constantly hugging the shore of America,
he expected to find the island of Cipango (Japan) in the equinoctial region, where he should
find all the spices of the world and any amount of precious stones.

But after all this great promise Master John disappears from the pages of history and his son
Sebastian continues to sail across the Atlantic, not always in the service of England, though
in 1502 we find him bringing to the King of England three men taken in the Newfoundland, clothed
in beasts' skins and eating raw flesh, and speaking a language which no man could understand.
They must have been kindly dealt with by the King, for two years later the poor savages are
"clothed like Englishmen."

Though England claimed the discovery of this Newfoundland, the Portuguese declared that one
of their countrymen, Cortereal--a gentleman of the royal household--had already discovered
the "land of the cod-fish" in 1463. But then had not the Vikings already discovered this country
five hundred years before?

CHAPTER XXXI

JACQUES CARTIER EXPLORES CANADA

All the nations of Europe were now straining westward for new lands to conquer. French sailors
had fished in the seas washing the western coast of North America; Verazzano, a Florentine,
in the service of France, had explored the coast of the United States, and a good deal was
known when Jacques Cartier, a Frenchman, steps upon the scene and wins for his country a large
tract of land about the river St. Lawrence. His object was to find a way across America to
Cathay. With two little ships of sixty tons and sixty-one "chosen men," Cartier left St. Malo
on 20th April 1534. With prosperous weather he tells us he made the coast of Newfoundland in
three weeks, which would mean sailing over one hundred miles a day. He was a little too early
in the season, for the easterly winds which had helped him on his way had blocked the east
coast of the island with Arctic ice. Having named the point at which he first touched land
Cape Bona Vista, he cruised about till, the ice having melted, he could sail down the straits
of Belle Isle between the mainland of Labrador and Newfoundland, already discovered by Breton
fishermen. Then he explored the now familiar Gulf of St. Lawrence--the first European to report
on it. All through June the little French ships sailed about the Gulf, darting across from
island to island and cape to cape. Prince Edward Island appealed to him strongly. "It is very
pleasant to behold," he tells us. "We found sweet-smelling trees as cedars, yews, pines, ash,
willow. Where the ground was bare of trees it seemed very fertile and was full of wild corn,
red and white gooseberries, strawberries, and blackberries, as if it had been cultivated on
purpose." It now grew hotter, and Cartier must have been glad of a little heat. He sighted
Nova Scotia and sailed by the coast of New Brunswick, without naming or surveying them. He
describes accurately the bay still called Chaleur Bay: "We named this the Warm Bay, for the
country is warmer even than Spain and exceedingly pleasant." They sailed up as far as they
could, filled with hope that this might be the long-sought passage to the Pacific Ocean. Hope
Cape they named the southern point, but they were disappointed by finding only a deep bay,
and to-day, by a strange coincidence, the point opposite the northern shore is known as Cape
Despair--the Cap d'Espoir of the early French mariners. Sailing on to the north amid strong
currents and a heavy sea, Cartier at last put into a shelter (Gaspe Bay). Here, "on the 24th
of July, we made a great cross thirty feet high, on which we hung up a shield with three fleurs-de-lis,
and inscribed the cross with this motto: 'Vive le roi de France.' When this was finished, in
presence of all the natives, we all knelt down before the cross, holding up our hands to heaven
and praising God."

Storms and strong tides now decided Cartier to return to France. He knew nothing of the Cabot
Strait between Newfoundland and the land afterwards called Nova Scotia, so he guided his little
ships right through the Straits of Belle Isle, and after being "much tossed by a heavy tempest
from the east, which we weathered by the blessing of God," he arrived safely home on 5th September,
after his six months' adventure. He was soon commissioned to continue the navigation of these
new lands, and in May 1535 he safely led three ships slightly larger than the last across the
stormy Atlantic. Contrary winds, heavy gales, and thick fogs turned the voyage of three weeks
into five--the ships losing one another not to meet again till the coast of Labrador was reached.
Coasting along the southern coast, Cartier now entered a "very fine and large bay, full of
islands, and with channels of entrance and exit in all winds." Cartier named it "Baye Saint
Laurens," because he entered it on 10th August--the feast of St. Lawrence.

Do any of the English men and women who steam up the Gulf of St. Lawrence in the great ocean
steamers to-day, on their way to Canada, ever give a thought to the little pioneer French ships
that four hundred years ago thought they were sailing toward Cathay?

"Savages," as Cartier calls the Indians, told him that he was near the mouth of the great river
Hochelaga (now the St. Lawrence), which became narrower "as we approach towards Canada, where
the water is fresh."

"On the first day of September," says Cartier, "we set sail from the said harbour for Canada."
Canada was just a native word for a town or village. It seems strange to read of the "lord
of Canada" coming down the river with twelve canoes and many people to greet the first white
men he had ever seen; strange, too, to find Cartier arriving at "the place called Hochelaga--twenty-five
leagues above Canada," where the river becomes very narrow, with a rapid current and very dangerous
on account of rocks. For another week the French explorers sailed on up the unknown river.
The country was pleasant, well-wooded, with "vines as full of grapes as they would hang." On
2nd October, Cartier arrived at the native town of Hochelaga. He was welcomed by hundreds of
natives,--men, women, and children,--who gave the travellers as "friendly a welcome as if we
had been of their own nation come home after a long and perilous absence." The women carried
their children to him to touch them, for they evidently thought that some supernatural being
had come up from the sea. All night they danced to the light of fires lit upon the shore.

The next morning Cartier, "having dressed himself splendidly," went ashore with some of his
men. All were well armed, though the natives seemed peacefully disposed. They marched along
a well-beaten track to the Indian city, which stood in the midst of cultivated fields of Indian
corn and maize. Again the inhabitants met them with signs of joy and gladness, and the King
was carried shoulder high, seated on a large deer-skin with a red wreath round his head made
of the skins of hedgehogs instead of a crown.

A curious scene then took place. The King placed his crown on the head of the French explorer,
before whom he humbled himself as before a god. Thus evidently did the people regard him, for
they brought to him their blind, their lame, and their diseased folk that he might cure them.
Touched with pity at the groundless confidence of these poor people, Cartier signed them with
the sign of the cross. "He then opened a service book and read the passion of Christ in an
audible voice, during which all the natives kept a profound silence, looking up to heaven and
imitating all our gestures. He then caused our trumpets and other musical instruments to be
sounded, which made the natives very merry."

Cartier and his men then went to the top of the neighbouring mountain. The extensive view from
the top created a deep impression on the French explorer; he grew enthusiastic over the beauty
of the level valley below and called the place Mont Royal--a name communicated to the busy
city of Montreal that lies below.

Winter was now coming on, and Cartier decided against attempting the homeward voyage so late
in the year; but to winter in the country he chose a spot between Montreal and Quebec, little
thinking what the long winter months would bring forth. The little handful of Frenchmen had
no idea of the severity of the Canadian climate; they little dreamt of the interminable months
of ice and snow when no navigation was possible. Before Christmas had come round the men were
down with scurvy; by the middle of February, "out of one hundred and ten persons composing
the companies of our three ships, there were not ten in perfect health. Eight were dead already.
The sickness increased to such a pitch that there were not above three sound men in the whole
company; we were obliged to bury such as died under the snow, as the ground was frozen quite
hard, and we were all reduced to extreme weakness, and we lost all hope of ever returning to
France." From November to March four feet of snow lay upon the decks of their little ships.
And yet, shut up as they were in the heart of a strange and unknown land, with their ships
icebound and nought but savages around, there is no sound of murmur or complaint. "It must
be allowed that the winter that year was uncommonly long" is all we hear.

May found them free once more and making for home with the great news that, though they had
not found the way to Cathay, they had discovered and taken a great new country for France.

A new map of the world in 1536 marks Canada and Labrador, and gives the river St. Lawrence
just beyond Montreal. A map of 1550 goes further, and calls the sea that washes the shores
of Newfoundland and Labrador the "Sea of France," while to the south it is avowedly the "Sea
of Spain."

CHAPTER XXXII

SEARCH FOR A NORTH-EAST PASSAGE

England was now awaking from her sleep--too late to possess the Spice Islands--too late for
India and the Cape of Good Hope--too late, it would seem, for the New World. The Portuguese
held the eastern route, the Spaniards the western route to the Spice Islands. But what if there
were a northern route? All ways apparently led to Cathay. Why should England not find a way
to that glorious land by taking a northern course?

"If the seas toward the north be navigable we may go to these Spice Islands by a shorter way
than Spain and Portugal," said Master Thorne of Bristol--a friend of the Cabots.

"But the northern seas are blocked with ice and the northern lands are too cold for man to
dwell in," objected some.

"There is no land uninhabitable, nor sea unnavigable," was the heroic reply.

"It was in this belief, and in this heroic temper, that England set herself to take possession
of her heritage, the north. But it was not till the reign of Edward VI. that a Company of Merchant
Adventurers was formed for the discovery of Regions, Dominions, Islands, and places unknown,"
with old Sebastian Cabot as its first governor, and not till the year 1553 that three little
ships under Sir Hugh Willoughby and Richard Chancellor were fitted out for a northern cruise.
They carried letters of introduction from the boy-king of England to "all Kings, Princes, Rulers,
Judges, and Governors of the Earth in all places under the universal heaven," including those
"inhabiting the north-east parts of the world toward the mighty Empire of Cathay."

Sir Hugh Willoughby, "a most valiant gentleman," hoisted the English flag on the Bona Esperanza,
a good little ship of one hundred and twenty tons. So certain were the promoters that the ships
would reach the hot climates beyond Cathay that they had them sheathed with lead to protect
them from worms which had proved so destructive in the tropics before.

The account of the start of these first English Arctic explorers is too quaint to be passed
in silence. "It was thought best that by the 20th of May the Captains and Mariners should take
shipping and depart if it pleased God. They, having saluted their acquaintance, one his wife,
another his children, another his kinsfolk, and another his friends dearer than his kinsfolk,
were ready at the day appointed. The greater ships are towed down with boats and oars, and
the mariners, being all apparelled in sky-coloured cloth, made way with diligence. And being
come near to Greenwich (where the Court then lay), the Courtiers came running out and the common
people flocked together, standing very thick upon the shore: the Privy Council, they looked
out of the windows of the Court, and the rest ran up to the tops of the towers, and the mariners
shouted in such sort that the sky rang again with the noise thereof. But, alas! the good King
Edward--he only by reason of his sickness was absent from this show."

The ships dropped down to Woolwich with the tide and coasted along the east coast of England
till "at the last with a good wind they hoisted up sail and committed themselves to the sea,
giving their last adieu to their native country--many of them could not refrain from tears."
Richard Chancellor himself had left behind two little sons, and his poor mind was tormented
with sorrow and care.

By the middle of July the North Sea had been crossed, and the three small ships were off the
shores of Norway, coasting among the islands and fiords that line that indented kingdom. Coasting
still northward, Willoughby led his ships to the Lofoten Islands, "plentifully inhabited by
very gentle people" under the King of Denmark. They sailed on--

   "To the west of them was the ocean,
    To the right the desolate shore."

till they had passed the North Cape, already discovered by Othere, the old sea-captain who
dwelt in Helgoland.

A terrible storm now arose, and "the sea was so outrageous that the ships could not keep their
intended course, but some were driven one way and some another way to their great peril and
hazard." Then Sir Hugh Willoughby shouted across the roaring seas to Richard Chancellor, begging
him not to go far from him. But the little ships got separated and never met again. Willoughby
was blown across the sea to Nova Zembla.

   "The sea was rough and stormy,
      The tempest howled and wailed,
    And the sea-fog like a ghost
      Haunted that dreary coast.
    But onward still I sailed."

The weather grew more and more Arctic, and he made his way over to a haven in Lapland where
he decided to winter. He sent men to explore the country, but no signs of mankind could be
found; there were bears and foxes and all manner of strange beasts, but never a human being.
It must have been desperately dreary as the winter advanced, with ice and snow and freezing
winds from the north. What this little handful of Englishmen did, how they endured the bitter
winter on the desolate shores of Lapland, no man knows. Willoughby was alive in January 1554--then
all is silent.

And what of Richard Chancellor on board the Bonadventure? "Pensive, heavy, and sorrowful,"
but resolute to carry out his orders, "Master Chancellor held on his course towards that unknown
part of the world, and sailed so far that he came at last to the place where he found no night
at all, but a continual light and brightness of the Sun, shining clearly upon the huge and
mighty Sea." After a time he found and entered a large bay where he anchored, making friends
with the fisher folk on the shores of the White Sea to the north of Russia. So frightened were
the natives at the greatness of the English ships that at first they ran away, half-dead with
fear. Soon, however, they regained confidence and, throwing themselves down, they began to
kiss the explorer's feet, "but he (according to his great and singular courtesy) looked pleasantly
upon them." By signs and gestures he comforted them until they brought food to the "new-come
guests," and went to tell their king of the arrival of "a strange nation of singular gentleness
and courtesy."

Then the King of Russia or Muscovie--Ivan Vasiliwich--sent for Master Chancellor to go to Moscow.
The journey had to be made in sledges over the ice and snow. A long and weary journey it must
have been, for his guide lost the way, and they had travelled nearly one thousand five hundred
miles before Master Chancellor came at last to Moscow, the chief city of the kingdom, "as great
as the city of London with all its suburbs," remarks Chancellor. Arrived at the King's palace,
Master Chancellor was received by one hundred Russian courtiers dressed in cloth of gold to
the very ankles. The King sat aloft on a high throne, with a crown of gold on his head, holding
in his hand a glittering sceptre studded with precious stones. The Englishman and his companions
saluted the King, who received them graciously and read the letter from Edward VI. with interest.
They did not know that the boy-king was dead, and that his sister Mary was on the throne of
England. The King was much interested in the long beards grown by the Englishmen. That of one
of the company was five foot two inches in length, "thick, broad, and yellow coloured." "This
is God's gift," said the Russians.

To Edward VI. of England the King sent a letter by the hands of Richard Chancellor, giving
leave readily for England to trade with Russia.

Master Chancellor seems to have arrived home again safely with his account of Russia, which
encouraged the Merchant Adventurers to send forth more ships to develop trade with this great
new country of which they knew so little.

To this end Anthony Jenkinson, "a resolute and intelligent gentleman," was selected, and "with
four tall, well-appointed ships he sailed on 12th May 1557 toward the land of Russia." He reached
Cape North on 2nd July, and a few days later he passed the spot where Sir Hugh Willoughby and
all his company had perished. Anchoring in the Bay of St. Nicholas, he took a sledge for Moscow,
where he delivered his letters safely to the King. So icebound was the country that it was
April 1558 before he was able to leave Moscow for the south, to accomplish, if possible, the
orders of the Merchant Adventurers to find an overland route to Cathay. With letters of introduction
from the Russian King to the princes and kings through whose dominions he was to pass, Master
Jenkinson made his way to the Volga, whence he continued his voyage with a Russian captain
who was travelling south in great style to take up a command at Astrakan with five hundred
boats laden with soldiers, stores, food, and merchandise.

After three months' travelling, and having passed over some one thousand two hundred miles,
the Englishman reached the south. The city of Astrakan offered no attractions and no hope of
trade, so Jenkinson boldly took upon himself to navigate the mouth of the Volga and to reach
the Caspian Sea. He was the first Englishman to cross Russia from the White Sea to the Caspian.
Never before on the Caspian had the red cross of St. George been seen flying from the masthead
of a ship sailed by Englishmen. After three weeks' buffeting by contrary winds, they found
themselves on the eastern shores, and, getting together a caravan of one thousand camels, they
went forward. No sooner had they landed than they found themselves in a land of thieves and
robbers. Jenkinson hastened to the Sultan of these parts, a noted robber himself, to be kindly
received by the Tartar Prince, who set before him the flesh of a wild horse and some mare's
milk. Then the little English party travelled on for three weeks through desolate land with
no rivers, no houses, no inhabitants, till they reached the banks of the Oxus. "Here we refreshed
ourselves," says the explorer, "having been three days without water and drink, and tarried
there all the next day making merry with our slain horses and camels." For a hundred miles
they followed the course of this great river until they reached another desert, where they
were again attacked by bands of thieves and robbers.

It was Christmas Eve when they at last reached Bokhara, only to find that the merchants were
so poor that there was no hope of any trade worth following, though the city was full of caravans
from India and the Far East. And here they heard that the way to Cathay was barred by reason
of grievous wars which were going on. Winter was coming on; so Jenkinson remained for a couple
of months before starting on his long journey home. With a caravan of six hundred camels he
made his way back to the Caspian, and on 2nd September he had reached Moscow safely with presents
of "a white cow's tail of Cathay and a drum of Tartary" for the King, which seemed to give
that monarch the greatest pleasure. He evidently stayed for a time in Russia, for it is not
till the year 1560 that we find him writing to the Merchant Adventurers that "at the next shipping
I embark myself for England."

While Jenkinson was endeavouring to reach the Far East by land, a Portuguese named Pinto had
succeeded in reaching it by sea. The discovery of Japan is claimed by three people. Antonio
de Mota had been thrown by a storm on to the island of Nison, called by the Chinese Jepwen--Japan--in
the year 1542. Pinto claims to have discovered it the same year. It seems that the Japanese
were expecting the return of a god, and as the white men hove in sight they exclaimed: "These
are certainly the Chinchi cogies spoken of in our records, who, flying over the waters, shall
come to be lords of the lands where God has placed the greatest riches of the world. It will
be fortunate for us if they come as friends."

Now men of the time refused to believe in the travels of Mendex Pinto. "He should be called
Mendax Pinto," said one, "whose book is one continued chain of monstrous fiction which deserves
no credit," while a hundred and fifty years later Congreve wrote--

   "Ferdinando Mendez Pinto was but a type of thee,
    Thou liar of the first magnitude."

CHAPTER XXXIII

MARTIN FROBISHER SEARCHES FOR A NORTH-WEST PASSAGE

So far the expeditions of Willoughby, Chancellor, and Jenkinson had all failed to reach the
Far East. The Spanish had a way thither by Magellan's Strait, the Portuguese by the Cape of
Good Hope. England in the middle of the sixteenth century had no way. What about a North-West
Passage leading round Labrador from the Atlantic to the Pacific? England was waking up to possibilities
of future exploration. She was also ready and anxious to annoy Spain for having monopolised
the riches and wealth of the New World. And so it was that Queen Elizabeth turned with interest
to the suggestions of one of her subjects--Martin Frobisher--"a mariner of great experience
and ability," when he enthusiastically consulted her on the navigation of the North-West Passage.
For the last fifteen years he had been trying to collect ships and men for the enterprise.
"It is the only thing in the world left undone whereby a notable mind might be made famous
and fortunate," he affirmed.

But it was not till the year 1576 that he got a chance of fitting out two small ships--two
very small ships--the Gabriel of twenty tons, the Michael of twenty-five tons, to explore the
icy regions of the north. A wave of the Queen's hand gladdened his heart as he sailed past
the palace of Greenwich, where the Court resided, and he was soon sailing northward harassed
and battered by many storms. His little ten-ton pinnace was lost, and the same storm that overtook
the little fleet to the north of Scotland so terrified the captain of the Michael that he deserted
and turned home with the news that Frobisher had perished with all hands.

Meanwhile Frobisher, resolute in his undertaking, was nearing the coast of Greenland--alone
in the little Gabriel with a mere handful of men all inexperienced in the art of navigating
the Polar seas.

   "And now there came both mist and snow,
    And it grew wondrous cold"

as Frobisher sailed his storm-beaten ship across the wintry seas. But "I will sacrifice my
life to God rather than return home without discovering a north-west passage to Cathay," he
told his eighteen men with sublime courage. Passing Cape Farewell, he sailed north-west with
the Greenland current, which brought him to the icebound shores near Hudson's Bay. He did not
see the straits afterwards discovered by Hudson, but, finding an inlet farther north, he sailed
some hundred miles, in the firm belief that this was the passage for which he was searching,
that America lay on his left and Asia on his right. Magellan had discovered straits in the
extreme south; Frobisher made sure that he had found corresponding straits to the extreme north,
and Frobisher's Straits they were accordingly named, and as such they appeared on the maps
of the day till they had to be renamed Lumley's Inlet. The snow and ice made further navigation
impossible for this year, and full of their great news they returned home accompanied by an
Eskimo. These natives had been taken for porpoises by our English explorers, but later they
were reported to be "strange infidels whose like was never seen, read, or heard of before."

Martin Frobisher was received with enthusiasm and "highly commended of all men for his great
and notable attempt, but specially famous for the great hope he brought of the passage to Cathay."
Besides the Eskimo the explorers carried home a black stone, which, when thrown on the fire
by one of the sailor's wives, glittered like gold. The gold refiners of London were hastily
called in, and they reported that it contained a quantity of gold.

A new incentive was now given to Polar exploration. The Queen herself contributed a tall ship
of some two hundred tons to the new expedition that was eagerly fitted out, and the High Admiral
of all seas and waters, countries, lands, and isles, as Frobisher was now called, sailed away
again for the icy north, more to search for gold than to discover the North-West Passage. He
added nothing more to the knowledge of the world, and though he sailed through the strait afterwards
known as Hudson's Strait, he never realised his discovery. His work was hampered by the quest
for gold, for which England was eagerly clamouring, and he disappears from our history of discovery.

The triumphant return of Francis Drake in 1580 laden with treasure from the Spice Islands put
into the shade all schemes for a north-west passage for the moment.

Nevertheless, this voyage of Martin Frobisher is important in the history of exploration. It
was the first attempt of an Englishman to make search amid the ice of the Arctic regions--a
search in which so many were yet to lay down their lives.

CHAPTER XXXIV

DRAKE'S FAMOUS VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD

   "Call him on the deep sea, call him up the sound,
    Call him when ye sail to meet the foe;
    Where the old trade's plyin' and the old flag flyin',
    They shall find him ware an' wakin', as they found him long ago!"
                                                     HENRY NEWBOLT.

Drake's famous voyage, as it is known to history (1577-1580), was indeed famous, for although
Magellan's ship had sailed round the world fifty years before, Drake was the first Englishman
to do so, and, further, he discovered for us land to the south of Magellan's Strait round which
washed the waters of Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, showing that the mysterious land marked on
contemporary maps as Terra Australis and joined to South America was a separate land altogether.
He also explored the coast of America as far north as Vancouver Island, and disclosed to England
the secret of the Spice Islands. The very name of Drake calls up a vision of thrilling adventure
on the high seas. He had been at sea since he was a boy of fifteen, when he had been apprenticed
to the master of a small ship trading between England and the Netherlands, and many a time
he had sailed on the grey North Sea. "But the narrow seas were a prison for so large a spirit
born for greater undertakings," and in 1567 we find Drake sailing forth on board the Judith
in an expedition over to the Spanish settlements in America under his kinsman, John Hawkins.
Having crossed the Atlantic and filled his ships with Spanish treasure from "the Spanish Main,"
and having narrowly escaped death from the hands of the Spaniards, Drake had hurried home to
tell of the riches of this new country still closed to all other nations. Two years later Drake
was off again, this time in command himself of two ships with crews of seventy-three young
men, their modest aim being nothing less than to seize one of the Spanish ports and empty into
their holds the "Treasure House of the World." What if this act of reckless daring was unsuccessful?
The undertaking was crowned with a higher success than that of riches, for Drake was the first
Englishman to see the waters of the Pacific Ocean. His expedition was not unlike that of Balboa
some sixty years before, as with eighteen chosen companions he climbed the forest-clad spurs
of the ridge dividing the two great oceans. Arrived at the top, he climbed up a giant tree,
and the Golden Sea of which he had so often heard--the Pacific Ocean of Magellan, the waters
washing the golden shores of Mexico and Peru--all lay below him. Descending from the heights,
he sank upon his knees and "humbly besought Almighty God of His goodness to give him life and
leave to sail once in an English ship in that sea."

Jealously had the Spanish guarded this beautiful Southern Sea, now her secrets were laid bare,
for an Englishman had gazed upon it and he was not likely to remain satisfied with this alone.

In 1573 Drake came home with his wonderful news, and it was not long before he was eagerly
talking over with the Queen a project for a raid into this very Golden Sea guarded by the Spaniards.
Elizabeth promised help on condition that the object of the expedition should remain a secret.
Ships were bought for "a voyage to Egypt"; there was the Pelican of one hundred tons, the Marygold
of thirty tons, and a provision ship of fifty tons. A fine new ship of eighty tons, named the
Elizabeth, mysteriously added itself to the little fleet, and the crews numbered in all some
one hundred and fifty men. No expense was spared in the equipment of the ships. Musicians were
engaged for the voyage, the arms and ammunition were of the latest pattern. The flagship was
lavishly furnished: there were silver bowls and mugs and dishes richly gilt and engraved with
the family arms, while the commander's cabin was full of sweet-smelling perfumes presented
by the Queen herself. Thus, complete at last, Drake led his gay little squadron out of Plymouth
harbour on 15th November 1577, bound for Alexandria--so the crews thought.

Little did Drake know what was before him, as, dressed in his seaman's shirt, his scarlet cap
with its gold band on his head, he waved farewell to England. Who could foresee the terrible
beginning, with treachery and mutiny at work, or the glorious ending when the young Englishman
sailed triumphantly home after his three years' voyage--the world encompassed?

Having reached the Cape de Verde Islands in safety, the object of the expedition could no longer
remain a secret, and Drake led his squadron boldly across the Atlantic Ocean.

On 5th April the coast of Brazil appeared, but fogs and heavy weather scattered the ships and
they had to run into the mouth of the La Plata for shelter. Then for six weary weeks the ships
struggled southward, battered by gales and squalls during which nothing but the daring seamanship
of the English navigators saved the little vessels from destruction. It was not till 20th June
that they reached Port St. Julian of Magellan fame, on the desolate shores of Patagonia. As
they entered the harbour, a grim sight met their eyes. On that windswept shore was the skeleton
of the man hung by Magellan years before.

History was to repeat itself, and the same fate was now to befall an unhappy Englishman guilty
of the same conduct.

Drake had long had reason to suspect the second in command, Doughty, though he was his dear
friend. He had been guilty of worse than disobedience, and the very success of the voyage was
threatened. So Drake called a council together and Doughty was tried according to English law.
After two days' trial he was found guilty and condemned to die. One of the most touching scenes
in the history of exploration now took place. One sees the little English crews far away on
that desolate shore, the ships lying at anchor in the harbour, the block prepared, the altar
raised beside it, the two old friends, Drake and Doughty, kneeling side by side, then the flash
of the sword and Drake holding up the head of his friend with the words, "Lo, this is the end
of traitors."

It was now midwinter, and for six weeks they remained in harbour till August came, and with
three ships they emerged to continue their way to the Straits of Magellan. At last it was found
and boldly they entered. From the towering mountains that guarded the entry, tempests of wind
and snow swept down upon the "daring intruders." As they made their way through the rough and
winding waters, they imagined with all the other geographers of their time that the unknown
land to the south was one great continent leading beyond the boundaries of the world. Fires
lit by the natives on this southern coast added terror to the wild scene. But at the end of
sixteen days they found themselves once more in the open sea. They were at last on the Pacific
Ocean. But it was anything but pacific. A terrible tempest arose, followed by other storms
no less violent, and the ships were driven helplessly southward and westward far beyond Cape
Horn. When they once more reached the coast they found in the place of the great southern continent
an indented wind-swept shore washed by waves terrific in their height and strength. In the
ceaseless gale the Marygold foundered with all hands and was never heard of again. A week later
the captain of the Elizabeth turned home, leaving the Pelican, now called the Golden Hind,
to struggle on alone. After nearly two months of storm, Drake anchored among the islands southward
of anything yet known to the geographers, where Atlantic and Pacific rolled together in one
boisterous flood. Walking alone to the farthest end of the island, Drake is said to have laid
himself down and with his arms embraced the southernmost point of the known world.

He showed that the Tierra del Fuego, instead of being part of a great continent--the Terra
Australis--was a group of islands with open sea to east, south, and west. This discovery was
first shown on a Dutch silver medallion struck in Holland about 1581, known as The Silver Map
of the world, and may be seen to-day in the British Museum.

Remarking that the ocean he was now entering would have been better called "Mare Furiosum"
than "Mare Pacificum," Drake now directed his course along the western coast of South America.
He found the coast of Chili, but not as the general maps had described it, "wherefore it appeareth
that this part of Chili hath not been truly hitherto discovered," remarked one on board the
Golden Hind. Bristling with guns, the little English ship sailed along the unknown coast, till
they reached Valparaiso. Here they found a great Spanish ship laden with treasure from Peru.
Quickly boarding her, the English sailors bound the Spaniards, stowed them under the hatches,
and hastily transferred the cargo on to the Golden Hind. They sailed on northwards to Lima
and Panama, chasing the ships of Spain, plundering as they went, till they were deeply laden
with stolen Spanish treasure and knew that they had made it impossible to return home by that
coast. So Drake resolved to go on northward and discover, if possible, a way home by the north.
He had probably heard of Frobisher's Strait, and hoped to find a western entrance.

As they approached the Arctic regions the weather grew bitterly cold, and "vile, thick, stinking
fogs" determined them to sail southward. They had reached a point near what we now know as
Vancouver Island when contrary winds drove them back and they put in at a harbour, now known
as San Francisco, to repair the ship for the great voyage across the Pacific and home by the
Cape of Good Hope. Drake had sailed past seven hundred miles of new coast-line in twelve days,
and he now turned to explore the new country, to which he gave the name of New Albion. The
Indians soon began to gather in large quantities on the shore, and the King himself, tall and
comely, advanced in a friendly manner. Indeed, he took off his crown and set it on the head
of Drake and, hanging chains about his neck, the Indians made him understand that the land
was now his and that they were his vassals.

Little did King Drake dream, as he named his country New Albion, that Californian gold was
so near. His subjects were loving and peaceable, evidently regarding the English as gods and
reverencing them as such. The chronicler is eloquent in his detailed description of all the
royal doings.

"Before we left," he says, "our General caused to be set up a monument of our being there,
as also of Her Majesty's right and title to that kingdom, namely, a plate of brass, fast nailed
to a great and firm post, whereon is engraved Her Grace's name and the day and year of our
arrival here, and of the free giving up of the province, both by the people and king, into
Her Majesty's hands, together with Her Highness' picture and arms in a piece of sixpence current
money. The Spanish never so much as set foot in this country--the utmost of their discoveries
reaching only to many degrees southward of this place.

"And now, as the time of our departure was perceived by the people, so did the sorrows and
miseries seem to increase upon them--not only did they lose on a sudden all mirth, joy, glad
countenance, pleasant speeches, agility of body, but with signs and sorrowings, with heavy
hearts and grieved minds, they poured out woeful complaints and moans, with bitter tears and
wringing of their hands, tormenting themselves. And, as men refusing all comfort, they only
accounted themselves as those whom the gods were about to forsake."

Indeed, the poor Indians looked on these Englishmen as gods, and, when the day came for them
to leave, they ran to the top of the hills to keep the little ship in sight as long as possible,
after which they burnt fires and made sacrifices at their departure.

Drake left New Albion on 23rd July 1579, to follow the lead of Magellan and to pass home by
the southern seas and the Atlantic Ocean. After sixty-eight days of quick and straight sailing,
with no sight of land, they fell in with the Philippine Islands, and on 3rd November with the
famous Spice Islands. Here they were well received by the King--a magnificent person attired
in cloth of gold, with bare legs and shoes of Cordova skins, rings of gold in his hair, and
a chain "of perfect gold" about his neck. The Englishmen were glad enough to get fresh food
after their long crossing, and fared sumptuously on rice, hens, "imperfect and liquid sugar,"
sugar-canes, and a fruit they call figo, with plenty of cloves. On a little island near Celebes
the Golden Hind was thoroughly repaired for her long voyage home. But the little treasure-laden
ship was nearly wrecked before she got away from the dangerous shoals and currents of these
islands.

"Upon the 9th of January we ran suddenly upon a rock, where we stuck fast from eight of the
clock at night till four of the clock in the afternoon the next day, being, indeed, out of
all hope to escape the danger; but our General, as he had always hitherto showed himself courageous,
so now he and we did our best endeavours to save ourselves, which it pleased God so to bless,
that in the end we cleared ourselves most happily of the danger."

Then they ran across the Indian Ocean, rounded the Cape of Good Hope in calm weather, abusing
the Portuguese for calling it the most dangerous Cape in the world for intolerable storms,
for "This Cape," said the English, "is a most stately thing and the finest Cape we saw in the
whole circumference of the earth."

And so they came home. After nearly three years' absence Drake triumphantly sailed his little
Golden Hind into Plymouth harbour, where he had long ago been given up as lost. Shouts of applause
rang through the land at the news that an Englishman had circumnavigated the world. The Queen
sent for Drake to tell his wonderful story, to which she listened spellbound. A great banquet
was held on board the little ship, at which Elizabeth was present and knighted Drake, while
she ordered that the Golden Hind should be preserved "as a worthy rival of Magellan's Victoria"
and as "a monument to all posterity of that famous and worthy exploit of Sir Francis Drake."

Sir Francis Drake died at sea in 1596.

   "The waves became his winding sheet, the waters were his tomb,
    But for his fame the ocean sea was not sufficient room."

CHAPTER XXXV

DAVIS STRAIT

But even while Drake was sailing round the world, and Frobisher's search for a north-west passage
had been diverted into a quest for gold, men's minds were still bent on the achievement of
reaching Cathay by some northern route. A discourse by Sir Humphrey Gilbert to prove the existence
of a passage by the north-west to Cathay and the East Indies, in ten chapters, was much discussed,
and the Elizabethan seamen were still bent on its discovery.

"When I gave myself to the study of geography," said Sir Humphrey, "and came to the fourth
part of the world, commonly called America, which by all descriptions I found to be an island
environed round by sea, having on the south side of it the Strait of Magellan, on the west
side the Sea of the South, which sea runneth toward the north, separating it from the east
parts of Asia, and on the north side the sea that severeth it from Greenland, through which
Northern Seas the Passage lieth which I take now in hand to discover."

The arguments of Sir Humphrey seemed conclusive, and in 1585 they chose John Davis, "a man
well grounded in the principles of the art of navigation," to search for the North-West Passage
to China. They gave him two little ships, the Sunshine of fifty tons, with a crew of seventeen
seamen, four musicians, and a boy, and the Moonshine of thirty-five tons. It was a daring venture,
but the expedition was ill-equipped to battle with the icebound seas of the frozen north. The
ships left Dartmouth on 7th June, and by July they were well out on the Atlantic with porpoises
and whales playing round them. Then came a time of fog and mist, "with a mighty great roaring
of the sea." On 20th July they sailed out of the fog and beheld the snow-covered mountains
of Greenland, beyond a wide stream of pack-ice--so gloomy, so "waste, and void of any creatures,"
so bleak and inhospitable that the Englishmen named it the Land of Desolation and passed on
to the north. Rounding the point, afterwards named by Davis Cape Farewell, and sailing by the
western coast of Greenland, they hoped to find the passage to Cathay. Landing amid the fiords
and the "green and pleasant isles" about the coast, they anchored a while to refresh, and named
their bay Gilbert Sound, after Sir Humphrey and Davis' own little boy, Gilbert, left at home.

"The people of the country," says Davis, "having espied our ships, came down unto us in their
canoes, holding up their right hand toward the sun. We doing the like, the people came aboard
our ships, men of good stature, unbearded, small-eyed, and of tractable conditions. We bought
the clothes from their backs, which were all made of seals' skins and birds' skins, their buskins,
their hose, their gloves, all being commonly sewed and well dressed."

These simple Greenlanders who worshipped the sun gave Davis to understand that there was a
great and open sea to the north-west, and full of hope he sailed on. But he soon abandoned
the search, for the season was advancing, and, crossing the open sea, he entered the broad
channel named after him Davis Strait, crossed the Arctic Circle, and anchored under a promontory,
"the cliffs whereof were orient as gold," naming it Mount Raleigh. Here they found four white
bears of "a monstrous bigness," which they took to be goats or wolves, till on nearer acquaintance
they were discovered to be great Polar bears. There were no signs of human life, no wood, no
grass, no earth, nothing but rock, so they coasted southwards, and to their joy they found
an open strait to the west free from ice. Eagerly they sailed the little Moonshine and Sunshine
up the opening, which they called Cumberland Sound, till thick fogs and adverse winds drove
them back. Winter was now advancing, the six months' provisions were ended, and, satisfied
with having found an open passage westward, Davis sailed home in triumph to fit out another
expedition as soon as spring came round. His news was received with delight. "The North-West
Passage is a matter nothing doubtful," he affirmed, "but at any time almost to be passed, the
sea navigable, void of ice, the air tolerable, and the waters very deep."

With this certainty of success the merchants readily fitted out another expedition, and Davis
sailed early in May 1586 with four ships. The little Moonshine and Sunshine were included in
the new fleet, but Davis himself commanded the Mermaid of one hundred and twenty tons. The
middle of June found him on the west coast of Greenland, battling his way with great blocks
of ice to his old quarters at Gilbert Sound. What a warm welcome they received from their old
Eskimo friends; "they rowed to the boat and took hold on the oars and hung about with such
comfortable joy as would require a long discourse to be uttered." Followed by a wondering crowd
of natives eager to help him up and down the rocks, Davis made his way inland to find an inviting
country, "with earth and grass such as our moory and waste grounds of England are"; he found,
too, mosses and wild flowers in the sheltered places. But his business lay in the icy waters,
and he boldly pushed forward. But ice and snow and fog made further progress impossible; shrouds,
ropes, and sails were turned into a frozen mass, and the crew was filled with despair. "Our
men began to grow sick and feeble and hopeless of good success, and they advised me that in
conscience I ought to regard the safety of mine own life with the preservation of theirs, and
that I should not through my over-boldness leave their widows and fatherless children to give
me bitter curses."

So Davis rearranged his crews and provisions, and with the Moonshine and a selection of his
best men he determined to voyage on "as God should direct him," while the Mermaid should carry
the sick and feeble and fainthearted home. Davis then crossed over the strait called by his
name and explored the coast about Cumberland Sound. Again he tried here to discover the long-sought
passage, but the brief summer season was almost past and he had to content himself with exploring
the shores of Labrador, unconsciously following the track made by John Cabot eighty-nine years
before.

But on his return home the merchants of London were disappointed. Davis had indeed explored
an immense extent of coast-line, and he had brought back a cargo of cod-fish and five hundred
seal skins, but Cathay seemed as far off as ever. One merchant prince, Sanderson by name, was
still very keen, and he helped Davis to fit out yet another expedition. With three ships, the
Sunshine, the Elizabeth, and the Helen, the undaunted Arctic explorer now found himself for
the third summer in succession at his old halting-place, Gilbert's Sound, on the west coast
of Greenland.

Leaving his somewhat discontented crews to go fishing off the coast of Labrador, he took the
little twenty-ton pinnace, with a small party of brave spirits like his own, and made his way
northwards in a free and open sea. The weather was hot, land was visible on both sides, and
the English mariners were under the impression that they were sailing up a gulf. But the passage
grew wider and wider, till Davis found himself with the sea all open to west and north. He
had crossed the Arctic Circle and reached the most northerly point ever yet reached by an explorer.
Seeing on his right a lofty cliff, he named it "Sanderson his Hope," for it seemed to give
hope of the long-sought passage to Cathay.

It was a memorable day in the annals of discovery, 30th June 1587, when Davis reached this
famous point on the coast of Greenland. "A bright blue sea extended to the horizon on the north
and west, obstructed by no ice, but here and there a few majestic icebergs with peaks snowy
shooting up into the sky." To the eastward were the granite mountains of Greenland, and beyond
them the white line of the mightiest glacier in the world. Rising immediately above the tiny
vessel was the beetling wall of Hope Sanderson, with its summit eight hundred and fifty feet
above sea-level. At its base the sea was a sheet of foam and spray. It must have been a scene
like fairyland, for, as Davis remarked, there was "no ice towards the north, but a great sea,
free, large, very salt and blue, and of an unsearchable depth."

