In Rousseau's account of the means by which equality was lost, the incoming of the ideas of
property is prominent. From property arose civil society. With property came in inequality.
His exposition of inequality is confused, and it is not possible always to tell whether he
means inequality of possessions or of political rights. His contemporary, Morelly, who published
the Basileade in 1753, was troubled by no such ambiguity. He accepts the doctrine that men
are formed by laws, but holds that they are by nature good, and that laws, by establishing
a division of the products of nature, broke up the sociability of men, and that all political
and moral evils are the result of private property. Political inequality is an accident of
inequality of possessions, and the renovation of the latter lies in the abolition of the former.

The opening sentence of the Contrat-Social is, "Man is born free, and everywhere he is a slave,"
a statement which it is difficult to reconcile with the fact that every human being is born
helpless, dependent, and into conditions of subjection, conditions that we have no reason to
suppose were ever absent from the race. But Rousseau never said, "All men are born equal."
He recognized, as we have seen, natural inequality. What he held was that the artificial differences
springing from the social union were disproportionate to the capacities springing from the
original constitution; and that society, as now organized, tends to make the gulf wider between
those who have privileges and those who have none.

The well-known theory upon which Rousseau's superstructure rests is that society is the result
of a compact, a partnership between men. They have not made an agreement to submit their individual
sovereignty to some superior power, but they have made a covenant of brotherhood. It is a contract
of association. Men were, and ought to be, equal cooperators, not only in politics, but in
industries and all the affairs of life. All the citizens are participants in the sovereign
authority. Their sovereignty is inalienable; power may be transmitted, but not will; if the
people promise to obey, it dissolves itself by the very act--if there is a master, there is
no longer a people. Sovereignty is also indivisible; it cannot be split up into legislative,
judiciary, and executive power.

Society being the result of a compact made by men, it followed that the partners could at any
time remake it, their sovereignty being inalienable. And this the French socialists, misled
by a priori notions, attempted to do, on the theory of the Contrat-Social, as if they had a
tabula rasa, without regarding the existing constituents of society, or traditions, or historical
growths.

Equality, as a phrase, having done duty as a dissolvent, was pressed into service as a constructor.
As this is not so much an essay on the nature of equality is an attempt to indicate some of
the modern tendencies to carry out what is illusory in the dogma, perhaps enough has been said
of this period. Mr. Morley very well remarks that the doctrine of equality as a demand for
a fair chance in the world is unanswerable; but that it is false when it puts him who uses
his chance well on the same level with him who uses it ill. There is no doubt that when Condorcet
said, "Not only equality of right, but equality of fact, is the goal of the social art," he
uttered the sentiments of the socialists of the Revolution. And the Declaration goes on, in
temperate and guarded language, to assert the right of a people to change their form of government
when it becomes destructive of the ends named.

Although the genesis of these sentiments seems to be French rather than English, and equality
is not defined, and critics have differed as to whether the equality clause is independent
or qualified by what follows, it is not necessary to suppose that Thomas Jefferson meant anything
inconsistent with the admitted facts of nature and of history. It is important to bear in mind
that the statesmen of our Revolution were inaugurating a political and not a social revolution,
and that the gravamen of their protest was against the authority of a distant crown. Nevertheless,
these dogmas, independent of the circumstances in which they were uttered, have exercised and
do exercise a very powerful influence upon the thinking of mankind on social and political
topics, and are being applied without limitations, and without recognition of the fact that
if they are true, in the sense meant by their originators, they are not the whole truth. It
is to be noticed that rights are mentioned, but not duties, and that if political rights only
are meant, political duties are not inculcated as of equal moment. It is not announced that
political power is a function to be discharged for the good of the whole body, and not a mere
right to be enjoyed for the advantage of the possessor; and it is to be noted also that this
idea did not enter into the conception of Rousseau.

The dogma that "government derives its just power from the consent of the governed" is entirely
consonant with the book theories of the eighteenth century, and needs to be confronted, and
practically is confronted, with the equally good dogma that "governments derive their just
power from conformity with the principles of justice." We are not to imagine, for instance,
that the framers of the Declaration really contemplated the exclusion from political organization
of all higher law than that in the "consent of the governed," or the application of the theory,
let us say, to a colony composed for the most part of outcasts, murderers, thieves, and prostitutes,
or to such states as today exist in the Orient. The Declaration was framed for a highly intelligent
and virtuous society.

Many writers, and some of them English, have expressed curiosity, if not wonder, at the different
fortunes which attended the doctrine of equality in America and in France. The explanation
is on the surface, and need not be sought in the fact of a difference of social and political
level in the two countries at the start, nor even in the further fact that the colonies were
already accustomed to self-government.

The simple truth is that the dogmas of the Declaration were not put into the fundamental law.
The Constitution is the most practical state document ever made. It announces no dogmas, proclaims
no theories. It accepted society as it was, with its habits and traditions; raising no abstract
questions whether men are born free or equal, or how society ought to be organized. It is simply
a working compact, made by "the people," to promote union, establish justice, and secure the
blessings of liberty; and the equality is in the assumption of the right of "the people of
the United States" to do this. And yet, in a recent number of Blackwood's Magazine, a writer
makes the amusing statement, "I have never met an American who could deny that, while firmly
maintaining that the theory was sound which, in the beautiful language of the Constitution,
proclaims that all men were born equal, he was," etc.

