That afternoon he reached Mr. Surbiton's house, as did also Captain Battersby, and his horses,
grooms, and other belongings. When there he received a lot of letters, and among others one
from Mr. Runciman, of the Bush, inquiring as to a certain hiring of rooms and preparation for
a dinner or dinners which had been spoken of in reference to a final shooting decreed to take
place in the neighbourhood of Dillsborough in the last week of January. Such things were often
planned by Lord Rufford, and afterwards forgotten or neglected. When he declared his purpose
to Runciman, he had not intended to go to Mistletoe, nor to stay so long with his friend Surbiton.
But now he almost thought that it would be better for him to be back at Rufford Hall, where
at present his sister was staying with her husband, Sir George Penwether.

In the evening of the second or third day his old friend Tom Surbiton said a few words to him
which had the effect of sending him back to Rufford. They had sat out the rest of the men who
formed the party and were alone in the smoking-room. "So you're going to marry Miss Trefoil,"
said Tom Surbiton, who perhaps of all his friends was the most intimate.

"Who says so?"

"I am saying so at present"

"You are not saying it on your own authority. You have never seen me and Miss Trefoil in a
room together."

"Everybody says so. of course such a thing cannot be arranged without being talked about"

"It has not been arranged."

"If you don't mean to have it arranged, you had better look to it. I am speaking in earnest,
Rufford. I am not going to give up authorities. Indeed if I did I might give up everybody.
The very servants suppose that they know it, and there isn't a groom or horseboy about who
isn't in his heart congratulating the young lady on her promotion."

"I'll tell you what it is, Tom."

"Well;--what is it?"

"If this had come from any other man than yourself I should quarrel with him. I am not engaged
to the young lady, nor have I done anything to warrant anybody in saying so."

"Then I may contradict it."

"I don't want you either to contradict it or affirm it. It would be an impertinence to the
young lady if I were to instruct any one to contradict such a report. But as a fact I am not
engaged to marry Miss Trefoil, nor is there the slightest chance that I ever shall be so engaged."
So saying he took up his candlestick and walked off.

Early on the next morning he saw his friend and made some sort of laughing apology for his
heat on the previous evening. "It is so d-- hard when these kind of things are said because
a man has lent a young lady a horse. However, Tom, between you and me the thing is a lie."

"I am very glad to hear it," said Tom.

"And now I want you to come over to Rufford on the twenty-eighth." Then he explained the details
of his proposed party, and got his friend to promise that he would come. He also made it understood
that he was going home at once. There were a hundred things, he said, which made it necessary.
So the horses and grooms and servant and portmanteaus were again made to move, and Lord Rufford
left his friend on that day and went up to London on his road to Rufford.

He was certainly disturbed in his mind, foreseeing that there might be much difficulty in his
way. He remembered with fair accuracy all that had occurred during the journey from Stamford
to Mistletoe. He felt assured that up to that time he had said nothing which could be taken
to mean a real declaration of love. All that at Rufford had been nothing. He had never said
a word which could justify the girl in a hope. In the carriage she had asked him whether he
loved her, and he had said that he did. He had also declared that he would do anything in his
power to make her happy. Was a man to be bound to marry a girl because of such a scene as that?
There was, however, nothing for him to do except to keep out of the girl's way. If she took
any steps, then he must act. But as he thought of it, he swore to himself that nothing should
induce him to marry her.

He remained a couple of days in town and reached Rufford Hall on the Monday, just a week from
the day of that fatal meet at Peltry. There he found Sir George and his sister and Miss Penge,
and spent his first evening in quiet. On the Tuesday he hunted with the U.R.U., and made his
arrangements with Runciman. He invited Hampton to shoot with him. Surbiton and Battersby were
coming, and his brother-in-law. Not wishing to have less than six guns he asked Hampton how
he could make up his party. "Morton doesn't shoot," he said, "and is as stiff as a post." Then
he was told that John Morton was supposed to be very ill at Bragton. "I'm sick of both the
Botseys," continued the lord, thinking more of his party than of Mr. Morton's health. "Purefoy
is still sulky with me because he killed poor old Caneback." Then Hampton suggested that if
he would ask Lawrence Twentyman it might be the means of saving that unfortunate young man's
life. The story of his unrequited love was known to every one at Dillsborough and it was now
told to Lord Rufford. "He is not half a bad fellow," said Hampton, "and quite as much like
a gentleman as either of the Botseys."

"I shall be delighted to save the life of so good a man on such easy terms," said the lord.
Then and there, with a pencil, on the back of an old letter, he wrote a line to Larry asking
him to shoot on next Saturday and to dine with him afterwards at the Bush.

That evening on his return home he found both the letters from Arabella. As it happened he
read them in the order in which they had been written, first the laughing letter, and then
the one that was declared to be serious. The earlier of the two did not annoy him much. It
contained hardly more than those former letters which had induced him to go to Mistletoe. But
the second letter opened up her entire strategy. She had told the Duchess that she was engaged
to him, and the Duchess of course would have told the Duke. And now she wrote to him asking
him to acknowledge the engagement in black and white. The first letter he might have ignored.
He might have left it unanswered without gross misconduct. But the second letter, which she
herself had declared to be a serious epistle, was one which he could not neglect. Now had come
his difficulty. What must he do? How should he answer it? Was it imperative on him to write
the words with his own hand? Would it be possible that he should get his sister to undertake
the commission? He said nothing about it to any one for four and twenty hours; but he passed
those hours in much discomfort. It did seem so hard to him that because he had been forced
to carry a lady home from hunting in a post chaise, that he should be driven to such straits
as this? The girl was evidently prepared to make a fight of it. There would be the Duke and
the Duchess and that prig Mistletoe, and that idle ass Lord Augustus, and that venomous old
woman her mother, all at him. He almost doubted whether a shooting excursion in Central Africa
or a visit to the Pampas would not be the best thing for him. But still, though he should resolve
to pass five years among the Andes, he must answer the lady's letter before he went.

Then he made up his mind that he would tell everything to his brother-in-law, as far as everything
can be told in such a matter. Sir George was near fifty, full fifteen years older than his
wife, who was again older than her brother. He was a man of moderate wealth, very much respected,
and supposed to be possessed of almost infinite wisdom. He was one of those few human beings
who seem never to make a mistake. Whatever he put his hand to came out well;--and yet everybody
liked him. His brother-in-law was a little afraid of him, but yet was always glad to see him.
He kept an excellent house in London, but having no country house of his own passed much of
his time at Rufford Hall when the owner was not there. In spite of the young peer's numerous
faults Sir George was much attached to him, and always ready to help him in his difficulties.
"Penwether," said the Lord, "I have got myself into an awful scrape."

"I am sorry to hear it. A woman, I suppose,"

"Oh, yes. I never gamble, and therefore no other scrape can be awful. A young lady wants to
marry me"

"That is not unnatural."

"But I am quite determined, let the result be what it may, that I won't marry the young lady."

"That will be unfortunate for her, and the more so if she has a right to expect it. Is the
young lady Miss Trefoil?"

"I did not mean to mention any name, till I was sure it might be necessary. But it is Miss
Trefoil."

"Eleanor had told me something of it"

"Eleanor knows nothing about this, and I do not ask you to tell her. The young lady was here
with her mother,--and for the matter of that with a gentleman to whom she was certainly engaged;
but nothing particular occurred here. That unfortunate ball was going on when poor Caneback
was dying. But I met her since that at Mistletoe."

"I can hardly advise, you know, unless you tell me everything."

Then Lord Rufford began. "These kind of things are sometimes deuced hard upon a man. Of course
if a man were a saint or a philosopher or a Joseph he wouldn't get into such scrapes,--and
perhaps every man ought to be something of that sort. But I don't know how a man is to do it,
unless it's born with him."

"A little prudence I should say."

"You might as well tell a fellow that it is his duty to be six feet high"

"But what have you said to the young lady,--or what has she said to you?"

"There has been a great deal more of the latter than the former. I say so to you, but of course
it is not to be said that I have said so. I cannot go forth to the world complaining of a young
lady's conduct to me. It is a matter in which a man must not tell the truth."

"But what is the truth?"

"She writes me word to say that she has told all her friends that I am engaged to her, and
kindly presses me to make good her assurances by becoming so."

"And what has passed between you?"

"A fainting fit in a carriage and half-a-dozen kisses."

"Nothing more?"

"Nothing more that is material. Of course one cannot tell it all down to each mawkish word
of humbugging sentiment. There are her letters, and what I want you to remember is that I never
asked her to be my wife, and that no consideration on earth shall induce me to become her husband.
Though all the duchesses in England were to persecute me to the death I mean to stick to that."

Then Sir George read the letters and handed them back. "She seems to me," said he, "to have
more wit about her than any of the family that I have had the honour of meeting."

"She has wit enough,--and pluck too."

"You have never said a word to her to encourage these hopes"

"My dear Penwether, don't you know that if a man with a large income says to a girl like that
that the sun shines he encourages hope. I understand that well enough. I am a rich man with
a title, and a big house, and a great command of luxuries. There are so many young ladies who
would also like to be rich, and to have a title, and a big house, and a command of luxuries!
One sometimes feels oneself like a carcase in the midst of vultures."

"Marry after a proper fashion, and you'll get rid of all that."

"I'll think about it, but in the meantime what can I say to this young woman? When I acknowledge
that I kissed ham, of course I encouraged hopes."

"No doubt"

"But St. Anthony would have had to kiss this young woman if she had made her attack upon him
as she did on me; and after all a kiss doesn't go for everything. These are things, Penwether,
that must not be inquired into too curiously. But I won't marry her though it were a score
of kisses. And now what must I do?" Sir George said that he would take till the next morning
to think about it,-- meaning to make a draft of the reply which he thought his brother-in-law
might best send to the lady.

CHAPTER XIX

It cannot be Arranged

When Reginald Morton received his aunt's letter he understood from it more than she had intended.
Of course the man to whom allusion was made was Mr. Twentyman; and of course the discomfort
at. home had come from Mrs. Masters' approval of that suitor's claim. Reginald, though he had
seen but little of the inside of the attorney's household, thought it very probable that the
stepmother would make the girl's home very uncomfortable for her. Though he knew well all the
young farmer's qualifications as a husband,-- namely that he was well to do in the world and
bore a good character for honesty and general conduct,--still he thoroughly, nay heartily approved
of Mary's rejection of the man's hand. It seemed to him to be sacrilege that such a one should
have given to him such a woman. There was, to his thinking, something about Mary Masters that
made it altogether unfit that she should pass her life as the mistress of Chowton Farm, and
he honoured her for the persistence of her refusal. He took his pipe and went out into the
garden in order that he might think of it all as he strolled round his little domain.

But why should he think so much about it? Why should he take so deep an interest in the matter?
What was it to him whether Mary Masters married after her kind, or descended into what he felt
to be an inferior manner of life? Then he tried to tell himself what were the gifts in the
girl's possession which made her what she was, and he pictured her to himself, running over
all her attributes. It was not that she specially excelled in beauty. He had seen Miss Trefoil
as she was being driven about the neighbourhood, and having heard much of the young lady as
the future wife of his own cousin, had acknowledged to himself that she was very handsome.
But he had thought at the same time that under no possible circumstances could he have fallen
in love with Miss Trefoil. He believed that he did not care much for female beauty, and yet
he felt that he could sit and look at Mary Masters by the hour together. There was a quiet
even composure about her, always lightened by the brightness of her modest eyes, which seemed
to tell him of some mysterious world within, which was like the unseen loveliness that one
fancies to be hidden within the bosom of distant mountains. There was a poem to be read there
of surpassing beauty, rhythmical and eloquent as the music of the spheres, if it might only
be given to a man to read it. There was an absence, too, of all attempt at feminine self-glorification
which he did not analyse but thoroughly appreciated. There was no fussy amplification of hair,
no made-up smiles, no affectation either in her good humour or her anger, no attempt at effect
in her gait, in her speech, or her looks. She seemed to him to be one who had something within
her on which she could feed independently of the grosser details of the world to which it was
her duty to lend her hand. And then her colour charmed his eyes. Miss Trefoil was white and
red; white as pearl powder and red as paint. Mary Masters, to tell the truth, was brown. No
doubt that was the prevailing colour, if one colour must be named. But there was so rich a
tint of young life beneath the surface, so soft but yet so visible an assurance of blood and
health and spirit, that no one could describe her complexion by so ugly a word without falsifying
her gifts. In all her movements she was tranquil, as a noble woman should be. Even when she
had turned from him with some anger at the bridge, she had walked like a princess. There was
a certainty of modesty about her which was like a granite wall or a strong fortress. As he
thought of it all he did not understand how such a one as Lawrence Twentyman should have dared
to ask her to be his wife,--or should even have wished it.

We know what were her feelings in regard to himself, how she had come to look almost with worship
on the walls within which he lived; but he had guessed nothing of this. Even now, when he knew
that she had applied to his aunt in order that she might escape from her lover, it did not
occur to him that she could care for himself. He was older than she, nearly twenty years older,
and even in his younger years, in the hard struggles of his early life, had never regarded
himself as a man likely to find favour with women. There was in his character much of that
modesty for which he gave her such infinite credit. Though he thought but little of most of
those around him, he thought also but little of himself. It would break his heart to ask and
be refused; but he could, he fancied, live very well without Mary Masters. Such, at any rate,
had been his own idea of himself hitherto; and now, though he was driven to think much of her,
though on the present occasion he was forced to act on her behalf, he would not tell himself
that he wanted to take her for his wife. He constantly assured himself that he wanted no wife,
that for him a solitary life would be the best. But yet it made him wretched when he reflected
that some man would assuredly marry Mary Masters. He had heard of that excellent but empty-head
young man Mr. Surtees. When the idea occurred to him he found himself reviling Mr. Surtees
as being of all men the most puny, the most unmanly, and the least worthy of marrying Mary
Masters. Now that Mr. Twentyman was certainly disposed of, he almost became jealous of Mr. Surtees.

It was not till three or four o'clock in the afternoon that he went out on his commission to
the attorney's house, having made up his mind that he would do everything in his power to facilitate
Mary's proposed return to Cheltenham. He asked first for Mr. Masters and then for Miss Masters,
and learned that they were both out together. But he had been desired also to see Mrs. Masters,
and on inquiring for her was again shown into the grand drawing-room. Here he remained a quarter
of an hour while the lady of the house was changing her cap and apron, which he spent in convincing
himself that this house was altogether an unfit residence for Mary. In the chamber in which
he was standing it was clear enough that no human being ever lived. Mary's drawing-room ought
to be a bower in which she at least might pass her time with books and music and pretty things
around her. The squalor of the real living room might be conjectured from the untouched cleanliness
of this useless sanctum. At last the lady came to him and welcomed him with very grim courtesy.
As a client of her husband he was very well;--but as a nephew of Lady Ushant he was injurious.
It was he who had carried Mary away to Cheltenham where she had been instigated to throw her
bread-and-butter into the fire,--as Mrs. Masters expressed it,--by that pernicious old woman
Lady Ushant. "Mr. Masters is out walking," she said. Reginald clearly understood by the contempt
which she threw almost unconsciously into her words that she did not approve of her husband
going out walking at such an hour.

"I had a message for him--and also for you. My aunt, Lady Ushant, is very anxious that your
daughter Mary should return to her at Cheltenham for a while." The proposition to Mrs. Masters'
thinking was so monstrous, and was at the same time so unexpected, that it almost took away
her breath. At any rate she stood for a moment speechless. "My aunt is very fond of your daughter,"
he continued, "and if she can be spared would be delighted to have her. Perhaps she has written
to Miss Masters, but she has asked me to come over and see if it can be arranged."

"It cannot be arranged," said Mrs. Masters. "Nothing of the kind can be arranged."

"I am sorry for that"

"It is only disturbing the girl, and upsetting her, and filling her head full of nonsense.
What is she to do at Cheltenham? This is her home and here she had better be." Though things
had hitherto gone very badly, though Larry Twentyman had not shown himself since the receipt
of the letter, still Mrs. Masters had not abandoned all hope. She was fixed in opinion that
if her husband were joined with her they could still, between them, so break the girl's spirit
as to force her into a marriage. "As for letters," she continued, "I don't know anything about
them. There may have been letters but if so they have been kept from me. "She was so angry
that she could not even attempt to conceal her wrath.

"Lady Ushant thinks--" began the messenger.

"Oh yes, Lady Ushant is very well of course. Lady Ushant is your aunt, Mr. Morton, and I haven't
anything to say against her. But Lady Ushant can't do any good to that girl. She has got her
bread to earn, and if she won't do it one way then she must do it another. She's obstinate
and pigheaded, that's the truth of it. And her father's just as bad. He has taken her out now
merely because she likes to be idle, and to go about thinking herself a fine lady. Lady Ushant
doesn't do her any good at all by cockering her up."

"My aunt, you know, saw very much of her when she was young."

"I know she did, Mr. Morton; and all that has to be undone,--and I have got the undoing of
it. Lady Ushant is one thing and her papa's business is quite another. At any rate if I have
my say she'll not go to Cheltenham any more. I don't mean to be uncivil to you, Mr. Morton,
or to say anything as oughtn't to be said of your aunt. But when you can't make people anything
but what they are, it's my opinion that it's best to leave them alone. Good day to you, sir,
and I hope you understand what it is that I mean."

Then Morton retreated and went down the stairs, leaving the lady in possession of her own grandeur.
He had not quite understood what she had meant, and was still wondering at the energy of her
opposition. when he met Mary herself at the front door. Her father was not with her, but his
retreating form was to be seen entering the portal of the Bush. "Oh, Mr. Morton!" exclaimed
Mary surprised to have the house-door opened for her by him.

"I have come with a message from my aunt"

"She told me that you would do so."

"Lady Ushant would of course be delighted to have you if it could be arranged."

"Then Lady Ushant will be disappointed," said Mrs. Masters who had descended the stairs. "There
has been something going on behind my back."

"I wrote to Lady Ushant," said Mary.

"I call that sly and deceitful;--very sly and very deceitful. If I know it you won't stir out
of this house to go to Cheltenham. I wonder Lady Ushant would go to put you up in that way
against those you're bound to obey."

"I thought Mrs. Masters had been told," said Reginald.

"Papa did know that I wrote," said Mary.

"Yes;--and in this way a conspiracy is to be made up in the House! If she goes to Cheltenham
I won't stay here. You may tell Lady Ushant that I say that. I'm not going to be one thing
one day and another, and to be made a tool of all round." By this time Dolly and Kate had cone
down from the upper regions and were standing behind their mother. "What do you two do there,
standing gaping like fools," said the angry mother. "I suppose your father has gone over to
the public-house again. That, miss, is what comes from your pig headiness. Didn't I tell you
that you were ruining everybody belonging to you?" Before all this was over Reginald Morton
had escaped, feeling that he could do no good to either side by remaining a witness to such
a scene. He must take some other opportunity of finding the attorney and of learning from him
whether he intended that his daughter should be allowed to accept Lady Ushant's invitation.

Poor Mary as she shrunk into the house was nearly heartbroken. That such things should be at
all was very dreadful, but that the scene should have taken place in the presence of Reginald
Morton was an aggravation of the misery which nearly overwhelmed her. How could she make him
understand whence had arisen her stepmother's anger and that she herself had been neither sly
nor deceitful nor pigheaded?

CHAPTER XX

"But there is some one"

When Mr. Masters had gone across to the Bush his purpose had certainly been ignoble, but it
had had no reference to brandy and water. And the allusion made by Mrs. Masters to the probable
ruin which was to come from his tendencies in that direction had been calumnious, for she knew
that the man was not given to excess in liquor. But as he approached his own house he bethought
himself that it would not lead to domestic comfort if he were seen returning from his walk
with Mary, and he had therefore made some excuse as to the expediency of saying a word to Runciman
whom he espied at his own door. He said his word to Runciman, and so loitered away perhaps
a quarter of an hour, and then went back to his office. But his wife had kept her anger at
burning heat and pounced upon him before he had taken his seat. Sundown was there copying,
sitting with his eyes intent on the board before him as though he were quite unaware of the
sudden entrance of his master's wife. She in her fury did not regard Sundown in the least,
but at once commenced her attack. "What is all this, Mr. Masters," she said, "about Lady Ushant
and going to Cheltenham? I won't have any going to Cheltenham and that's flat" Now the attorney
had altogether made up his mind that his daughter should go to Cheltenham if her friend would
receive her. Whatever might be the consequences, they must be borne. But he thought it best
to say nothing at the first moment of the attack, and simply turned his sorrowful round face
in silence up to the partner of all his cares and the source of so many of them. "There have
been letters," continued the lady;--"letters which nobody has told me nothing about. That proud
peacock from Hoppet Hall has been here, as though he had nothing to do but carry Mary away
about the country just as he pleased. Mary won't go to Cheltenham with him nor yet without
him;--not if I am to remain here."

"Where else should you remain, my dear?" asked the attorney.

"I'd sooner go into the workhouse than have all this turmoil. That's where we are all likely
to go if you pass your time between walking about with that minx and the public-house opposite."
Then the attorney was aware that he had been watched, and his spirit began to rise within him.
He looked at Sundown, but the man went on copying quicker than ever.

"My dear," said Mr. Masters, "you shouldn't talk in that way before the clerk. I wanted to
speak to Mr. Runciman, and, as to the workhouse, I don't know that there is any more danger
now than there has been for the last twenty years."

"It's alway's off and on as far as I can see. Do you mean to send that girl to Cheltenham?"

"I rather think she had better go--for a time."

"Then I shall leave this house and go with my girls to Norrington." Now this threat, which
had been made before, was quite without meaning. Mrs. Masters' parents were both dead, and
her brother, who had a large family, certainly would not receive her. "I won't remain here,
Mr. Masters, if I ain't to be mistress of my own house. What is she to go to Cheltenham for,
I should like to know?"

Then Sundown was desired by his wretched employer to go into the back settlement and the poor
man prepared himself for the battle as well as he could. "She is not happy here," he said.

"Whose fault is that? Why shouldn't she be happy? Of course you know what it means. She has
got round you because she wants to be a fine lady. What means have you to make her a fine lady?
If you was to die to-morrow what would there be for any of 'em? My little bit of money is all
gone. Let her stay here and be made to marry Lawrence Twentyman. That's what I say."

"She will never marry Mr. Twentyman."

"Not if you go on like this she won't. If you'd done your duty by her like a real father instead
of being afraid of her when she puts on her tantrums; she'd have been at Chowton Farm by this
time."

It was clear to him that now was the time not to be afraid of his wife when she put on her
tantrums,--or at any rate, to appear not to be afraid. "She has been very unhappy of late."

"Oh, unhappy! She's been made more of than anybody else in this house."

"And a change will do her good. She has my permission to go;--and go she shall!" Then the word
had been spoken.

"She shall!"

"It is very much for the best. While she is here the house is made wretched for us all."

"It'll be wretcheder yet; unless it would make you happy to see me dead on the threshold,--which
I believe it would. As for her, she's an ungrateful, sly, wicked slut"

"She has done nothing wicked that I know of."

"Not writing to that old woman behind my back?"

"She told me what she was doing and showed me the letter."

"Yes; of course. The two of you were in it. Does that make it any better? I say it was sly
and wicked; and you were sly and wicked as well as she. She has got the better of you, and
now you are going to send her away from the only chance she'll ever get of having a decent
home of her own over her head."

"There's nothing more to be said about it, my dear. Repentance had been in Recently a vague
wish, thanks to the fatigue of his love and fear further divestment inspired him to hell. Now
it became true longing. Truth that offered greater attractive. Courageously reject sin, purified,
free from the eternal fire ... and also Fernanda possess.

Had long criminal relations had only a blip, Josefina. If it was not for her, was gone for Lancia.
This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence
of doves, the sweetness melancholy of a moonlit night, spreading over his soul, tormented by
remorse, a balm to the deliciously refreshing. Many times, holding in his arms, asked surprised
how someone so innocent, so pure, so divine, could be the child of sin! But even during that
same girl was new and cruel torments. Not her alone but from time to time, be forced to hide
their feelings, coldly kiss as other, more coolly than the rest, unable to call her daughter's
heart, do not feel warbling the tender name of father, he was sad and at times he despaired.
Desquitábase when once in a while, very rarely, he consented to take her to the farm. They spent
hours in ecstasy, holding on his knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of love
and thanks.

Sometimes blonde felt his head wet by the tears of his friend. Raised his eyes in surprise but
seeing him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to kiss.

- Why are you crying, Luis? Do you pupa?

Joseph did not understand why it had more serious in the world to mourn. Luis loved tenderly, and that
shocked and saddened that the coldness that she usually wore. Slowly had been guessing, with
precocious instinct, that the count wanted more than the others and to conceal. She also adopted,
following the example, an indifferent attitude toward him when in
public.

But when alone, we gave with the same enthusiasm to expansions affection, and this without knowing
why, without realizing what he did.

From the day her godmother ordered off her hair, she noticed that there was Josefina disgraced.
I no longer kiss with transportation, and did not meet their minimum food cravings, was no
longer the constant concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent
tone, and the maids followed the example of his wife. The poor girl without understanding what
that change meant, he felt his little heart tightened; explored with
its beautiful deep eyes the faces and tried to decipher the enigma
that kept.

It became more serious, more suspicious, more timid. And he refused to see that toys or goodies
before lent her hands full, he refrained from asking.

Amalia, instead of enjoying as before with their children because
it seemed outrun.

He ordered not take her morning at the bed, as usual. When encountered by chance in hallways, passed
by avoiding her. To all asking the closer to peevish tone:

- You have not washed it yet? But go to fix you. Or: "I was told you could not the catechism.
You'll make very lazy. Care that you're great, because otherwise I locked in the cave of the
mice. "

Before her was busy taking her lessons, put the needle in the hand and guide their tiny fingers.
Now this task usually left to the maids.

He lived in a state grim concern that did not happen desadvertida the servants. Josephine also
guessed; I saw that her godmother was changed, not only with respect to it, but his whole way
of being. And there, vaguely in the dark limbo of his thinking that spawned the idea was sad,
suffering and that this was the cause of your bad mood.

One day the lady was alone in his cabinet. It had dropped into a chair. Still, head thrown back
and hands earrings, seemed asleep.

However, Josephine that was around the cabinet, dared to look through
the crack in the door and noted that it had eyes open, wide open,
and his brow was furrowed anxiously.

Without knowing what that was done, with that blind children have
confidence in themselves, opened the door and into the room.

He approached the lady quietly, and fell suddenly on his lap, he said, fixing her a look of
timid affection

- Kiss me, godmother.

The lady shook.

- How you doing here?

Who gave you permission to enter?

Have not you been told not to go up without call you? - asked further
wrinkling his brow.

- I wanted to kiss - Josefina said dully.

-
Let me kisses.

Go, go watch it again without my permission.

But the girl, overcome by emotion, not knowing what to attribute this
indifference and willing overcome at all costs, next to mourn, fell
further on his lap and tried to climb to reach his face.

- Kiss me,
godmother.

- Remove!

Let me! - Preventing it lifted the lady replied.

The girl persisted.

- Do not you want me?

Give me a kiss.

- To take off, kiddo! - Shouted angry .-- Get out now!

At the same time gave a hard push.

Josefina, after staggering, fell to the ground, giving head at the
foot of a chair.

Alzose touching his sore spot, but did not cry. A sense of dignity that many Sometimes you stay strong
in children's hearts, lent strength to resist tears gushing into
her eyes.

Turned to her godmother a look of indescribable sadness and left running from the room. When
he reached the stairs he fell on a step and broke sobbing.

The thorns of life began to dig cruelly delicate meats that girl, who until then had found only
flowers in their path. The detachment grew Amalia day by day. At the same time so did the reserve
and shyness of their daughter. But as the end I was a kid, this sadness disipábase sometimes
the impulse of a whim. So it was when it really showed the coldness and dislike of the lady.

-
Madam, Josefina not wear the green dress.

- What then?

- He says he is dirty.

Amalia got up, went to the room of the girl and taking her by the arm and shaking her roughly,
said

- What pride is that? Do not you know, wrist, which in this house you are nobody? What are you
here mercy? Be careful not to get angry, because when you least expect you planted in the
street where I have collected.

Maids heard these words and had very present. Josefina hitherto had been treated as a daughter of
Mr.: henceforth it was regarded as a false child: later, as upstart. The servants pleasure
of revenge with meticulous care before she had to lavish, those receiving harsh rebukes by their
cause. Concha In particular, the microscopic maiden, he felt a joy unspeakable, characteristic
of a vindictive nature, whenever Mrs. somehow showed his disdain for the child collection.

It occupied a room overlooking the garden, bright and spacious. Concha, although first maid
and seamstress in the house, were staying in a dark little room with
patio window, which shared with Mary.

Josefina's cabinet had been provided for her an object of envy. More than once expressed in
words rather heavy for it.

Taking advantage of the disposition of his mistress, was allowed
to sleep well in this cabinet, under the pretext of Paula, who occupied
an adjoining room, was a heavy sleeper.

Comfortably seated himself, he using the toilet and the girl's belongings. A few days later sent
her to sleep with Mary in his old room without saying a word to her mistress. When she found out,
had passed some time: free scolded for not giving rough part, but
did not change the facts accomplished.

Later it occurred to him otherwise degrade. Josefina ate at the table with the lords. The high
and mighty Grandee had not consented to the top: touted by wife,
gave the order, not without reluctance.

Shell penetrated the dislike of his wife, began to plot to deprive this honor to the collection.
Exaggerating what was to be done, how much staining and what disturbed the table service, which
ultimately did not sit and yes it into a little girl who was put on the fourth of the plate,
next to the kitchen. A few days later the same Amalia, in a fit of bad temper, said that this
double service could not be tolerated and will take her to the kitchen
to eat with the servants.

Concha sat on a stool, put a saucer of mud and wooden spoon in hand
and said

- Come.

The girl looked up stunned, but to see the evil grin that shone in his eyes the maid, underthe again
and began to eat without protest.

Concha was not satisfied; wished they rebel mourn view.

- What is that? Do not like the spoon? ... Well, daughter, eat with it, and also how I I'm as
good as you ... What did you think, goofy! Did you think that because you put the hat cambric
shirt and you were a lady ... The ladies do not come tucked in a basket between dirty ...

And there continued releasing jets sarcasm and insults, until at last the poor Josephine began
to mourn. The other maids, less malevolent, were, however, flattered by that humiliation.
At last they did their part, tried to comfort her, while Concha ruthless, tougher and cooler
than marble, chasing a long time continued to boo bloody.

A few days later, Josephine across the room from the plate to go to
the dining room, heard Concha said turning to Mary:

- Say, girl,
have you ironing and clothing hospiciana?

He paused, not knowing whom he meant, and carried his eyes suspicious of one another domestic until
a laugh, both released at the same time, made him understand that this was it.

- Why do you call me hospiciana? - Said the innocent struggling to not mourn .-- I will say
my godmother.

- Lift, runs to tell! - Concha said pushing on the door.

Since then no other name given among the servants.

Amalia forbidden to take her to the living room at night.

The count, who no longer see his daughter more this time, demanded
an explanation.

The lady said, having to get up early to study their lessons, he needed more sleep. He did
not believe that for. Included that it was a dastardly revenge, but was careful to keep silent,
fearing further damage.

Amalia then came up most directly hurt.

The girl, who had been deprived not only for his touch, but of all its preeminence in the house,
on his way to being a maid more. In a flash was completely transformed. The lady gave orders
to guard him all the hats and dresses and secure his the poorest and oldest in the room; that
might make him a gown as the other servants, and are employed in the necessities of I could
run the kitchen.

The Loves of Count and Fernanda were becoming more noticeable. Although they kept house Quiñones
be discussed with privacy, Valencia will not be jealous that hid between them existed. His
eyes pierced like two rays of light on her lover's brain and read
clearly in him.

Luis was in love with his former girlfriend. Adulterous relationships he endured in the soul
like a slab of stone. She, the beloved, beloved of other days, it seemed now old and withered
face that splendid rose just open fully. If not had left and was due to weakness of character,
by the powerful influence that in seven year relationship had acquired over him. But it felt like
something else. I read it perfectly fled in their eyes, in the grim concern that weighed on
him, sometimes broken by sudden and extravagant joy in fear and servility,
increasing, with which approached her.

One night the Count asked for a glass of water. Amalia's eyes flashed
suddenly.

There awaited moment arrived. Rang the bell and said the maiden singular inflection who attended:

-
Paula, bring a glass of water.

A few moments later she appeared Josefina, poorly dressed, with a
fabric mandilito coarse, rough shod your feet with shoes, supporting
work between his small hands a tray with a glass of water and sugar
cube.

The circles were stunned. Luis pale.

He moved the girl to the middle of the room, looking timidly at her godmother. This made him a
sign that come near the count.

The gentleman hesitated as if distracted, but seeing the creature planted before him, hastened
to take the cup and took it with a trembling hand to his lips.

Eyes Amalia were shown as cold, indifferent, but his lips had undetectable tremors revealing the cruel
joy I felt. Reigned in the party, while Following this stage, a significant silence.

After Joseph had gone, Mrs. Quinones said his conversations with ease that move. It was a necessary
punishment to the pride that the girl began to show with the servants.
Not last long.

However, needed to beat the clock will Quinones, who opposed it was brought up with much care.

-
The truth is - concluded with an accent so natural that any actress would find it more appropriate
to the occasion, - the truth is that sometimes I can not help him right in me. What good would it
do to this poor girl placing her in a situation where there has to be sustainable? Tomorrow
we die, the poor need to scratch a living working, unless they find
a husband ... What husband is going to give a girl needs and no money?

The circles did not fall into the trap. In reality neither she intended. Everything came to be reduced
to pure convention, since no one is hiding what was underneath. Soon after, unable to master the discomfort
he felt, the count dismissed.

- The business of Louis does not appear at all well - said late Manuel Antonio in a group who
retires by Altavilla Street, where they were Maria Josefa, the Pensioner
and his daughter Jovita .-- The Fernanda married, if he gets to perform,
it must cost much trouble.

- Do you think Maria Josefa ?...-- asked
to pull his tongue.

- Mother!

... Are you dumb, woman? Do not know Amalia like me?

- What must be based on the marriage of Amalia Luis? - Asked Jovita,
who as maiden, but had turned thirty-two patent suit him do his candor.

-
Ay! It is true that we had here this fanciullina - exclaimed, making
funny gestures fright, the fag .-- I had no charge!

... Nothing, Monin, nothing moves forward, these are things of the great ...

Pensioner's daughter became angry when he felt the pinprick and replied
with a phrase insolent.

Pagola Manuel Antonio with another, and engaged in lively overflowing with words bitter dispute
and intended that lasted until retired house, but not before he had made some vain efforts to
make peace between them. Took the best part, as always, the queer, they had to launch their sentences
the force of men and the subtle intention of females.

The next day the count did an interview with Amalia and gave his complaints
about the scene the previous night.

The lady said kindly, condescending, he justified his conduct by
the good of the child.

Luis noted, however, speaking in a particular way, thought he heard
in the honey of his words a hint of bitterness and irony that startled
him.

Came worried restless: in a few days of each other could not remove
the discomfort of that interview.

But love set fire rapidly in all the chambers of his soul and consumed
at the end that last bit of concern.

He was deeply in love. And as always happens, growing alongside her love also increased his shyness.
At first, in their long conversations Fernanda, appeared serene, polite, forgiving no way of
proving to his ex-girlfriend admiration and performance.

Suddenly began to lose his poise, to flee all matters related to their own feelings, avoid phrases
gallant. Fernanda was not wrong. Now is the time that love had come, after which time both had
run, so many tears had cost.

His talks, but were indifferent affairs, had a delicate, exquisite. Spoke hours and hours without
getting tired of the smallest things, for the sake of being so close to listen.

Fernanda chatting with all the joy of his heart, heal the timidity of his devotee, On the contrary,
enjoy seeing the childish efforts that avoided confessing his love,
knowing that once she gave the signal would be delivered bound hand
and foot.

The moment finally arrived.

One day the beautiful widow decided to declare it.

They spoke of marriage of remarriage.

Luis began to startle, to give their views trembling voice, trying
to escape the conversation.

Fernanda suddenly said with perfect calm and resolute tone:

- I
will not return to marry a second time.

He turned pale.

The face is so sad that the girl, barely repressing a smile, yet
repeated with higher resolution:

- I will not marry a second time
... unless you.

The count looked haggard.

- Is it really so? - Finally asked with a trembling voice.

- And
so true! - "She said smiling at him.

- Give me that hand, Fernanda.

-
Take it, Luis.

They are strongly shook for a moment.

The count got up without saying another word.

When he got home, I wrote a long letter of six sheets painting with vivid colors his passion,
giving fervent thanks, calling himself unworthy worm three or four
times.

The marriage was arranged for when the year of mourning was over.

It was two months. Decided secrecy and that the ceremony would be held either in Lancia. A few days
before it would default to Madrid shortly after he would gather him, and the court would together
forever.

In the villages is very difficult to hide anything: a wedding project impossible. By intensity
of each pair of eyes look becomes a hundred pairs, by virtue of noise,
each ear a hundred ears.

In His Steps, in their eyes, in the way of greeting and farewell lacienses ingenious as the
real wizards guessed what they thought, was exactly the progress of those relationships that
were touched to the quick of the heart.

One evening, passing Manuel Antonio in front of the gloomy abode of
the count, striding out the girl with a cardboard box in his hands.

The nose felt queer smell of hunting, winds took a moment and followed her.

- Bye, Laura - she said before her passing.

And turning suddenly asked him casually:

- How is your love?

- The count is not bad.

- Ah! As I said ... As I do not see two days ago ... Going shopping for the lady?

- There are shirts for the count.

- How Ramiro house? ... Let me see, I also I have to buy.

The maid opened the box and began to examine queer content.
- They are very fine. This is too expensive for me, daughter.

-
Yes, sir, are expensive. Then the count is still not good. Want the
entire coast that are of silk, and even though I walked all the shops,
there are none. Simply choice but to order them.

- Silk? Mother!
Then we will marry.

- I do not know about that, sir - was quick to
replicate the maid with signs of trouble.

- Stand back, hypocrite!
- Said laughing .-- You know like me and like everyone else ... What
when?

- I say that I know nothing.

But the queen was so insistent,
he was so expressive and family after a while raised disgorge what
he had inside.

- Well, look, I can not tell what's fixed point, but
I think he married and soon. The other day I heard a few words to
the Countess ...

- What word?

- Said the housekeeper, as their son
was, would spend a season on the Farm. Then, looking through the keyhole,
I saw mourn. In addition, Fray Diego was yesterday at home ... I do
not know if I should say ...

- Come, woman, who cares? Do you imagine
that I am a newsletter?

- Then I heard him say goodbye to time: "Nothing,
nothing, they are quite right, it is much better do so in Madrid.
This is a very envious people ... "

The joy he felt the land Columbus
discovered the New World was nothing compared with that of our queen.
Not only knew without a doubt they got married, but where there to
perform the ceremony. Embarrassed by news so soon capital and willing
to relieve of that weight, he began to think about who would be most
effective. His thought was right Amalia. To the palace of Quiñones
straightened, then, his petite, graceful steps.

It was the hour of
dusk. Found the lady sitting in his cabinet, without light, delivered
without certainly one of those intense and painful meditation for
some time that the embargoed. Manuel Antonio was jovial and talkative,
he tried to cheer his best, attracting new blood to her heart sore
for the stabbing was more painful. Requested chocolate roistered took
it nicely: Amalia came to forget their worries. And when most neglected
was bang! pump. But dropped slightly, with infinite art, art a woman
who has only reinforced by the male talent.

The only thing he felt
was not being able to see her face. The cabinet was almost in darkness.
But very clearly warned the wreckage of the explosion at the sound
of the voice in the cold hand to say goodbye.

Amalia was standing
rigid, immobile, long time. Apoyose in the shade of crape to watch
the street and shattered. He tried to open his desk to take the knob
of the essence, but he too turned the key and broke the lock.

Left
the room and wandered through the darkened corridors and stairways,
with uncertain plant as a ghost. Far away he saw a bright spot and
headed toward him involuntarily like a butterfly. It was the dining
room was already lit. Sitting at the table, assembling a shepherds
of mud, remnants of its past wealth was Josephine. The lamp shade
live cast light on his head and gold peel like an orange.

CHAPTER XXII

Miss Trefoil's Decision

Lord Rufford's letter reached Arabella at her cousin's house, in due course, and was handed
to her in the morning as she came down to breakfast. The envelope bore his crest and coronet,
and she was sure that more than one pair of eyes had already seen it. Her mother had been in
the room some time before her, and would of course know that the letter was from Lord Rufford.
An indiscreet word or two had been said in the hearing of Mrs. Connop Green,--as to which Arabella
had already scolded her mother most vehemently, and Mrs. Connop Green too would probably have
seen the letter, and would know that it had come from the lover of whom boasts had been made.
The Connop Greens would be ready to worship Arabella down to the very soles of her feet if
she were certainly,--without a vestige of doubt,--engaged to be the wife of Lord Rufford. But
there had been so many previous mistakes! And they, too, had heard of Mr. John Morton. They
too were a little afraid of Arabella though she was undoubtedly the niece of a Duke.

She was aware now,--as always,--how much depended on her personal bearing; but this was a moment
of moments! She would fain have kept the letter, and have opened it in the retirement of her
own room. She knew its terrible importance, and was afraid of her own countenance when she
should read it. All the hopes of her life were contained in that letter. But were she to put
it in her pocket she would betray her anxiety by doing so. She found herself bound to open
it and read it at once,--and she did open it and read it.

After all it was what she had expected. It was very decided, very short, very cold, and carrying
with it no sign of weakness. But it was of such a letter that she had thought when she resolved
that she would apply to Lord Mistletoe, and endeavour to put the whole family of Trefoil in
arms. She had been,--so she had assured herself,--quite sure that that kind, loving response
which she had solicited, would not be given to her. But yet the stern fact, now that it was
absolutely in her hands, almost overwhelmed her. She could not restrain the dull dead look
of heart-breaking sorrow which for a few moments clouded her face,--a look which took away
all her beauty, lengthening her cheeks, and robbing her eyes of that vivacity which it was
the task of her life to assume. "Is anything the matter, my dear?" asked Mrs. Connop Green.

Then she made a final effort,--an heroic effort. "What do you think, mamma?" she said, paying
no attention to her cousin's inquiry.

"What is it, Arabella?"

"Jack got some injury that day at Peltry, and is so lame that they don't know whether he'll
ever put his foot to the ground again"

"Poor fellow," said Mr. Green. "Who is Jack?"

"Jack is a horse, Mr. Green; and such a horse that one cannot but be sorry for him. Poor Jack!
I don't know any Christian whose lameness would be such a nuisance."

"Does Lord Rufford write about his horses?" asked Mrs. Connop Green, thus betraying that knowledge
as to the letter which she had obtained from the envelope.

"If you must know all the truth about it," said Arabella, "the horse is my horse, and not Lord
Rufford's. And as he is the only horse I have got, and as he's the dearest horse in all the
world, you must excuse my being a little sorry about him. Poor Jack!" After that the breakfast
was eaten and everybody in the room believed the story of the horse's lameness--except Lady
Augustus.

When breakfast and the loitering after breakfast were well over, so that she could escape without
exciting any notice, she made her way up to her bedroom. In a few minutes,--so that again there
should be nothing noticeable,--her mother followed her. But her door was locked. "It is I,
Arabella," said her mother.

"You can't come in at present, I am busy."

"But Arabella."

"You can't come in at present, mamma." Then Lady Augustus slowly glided away to her own room
and there waited for tidings.

The whole form of the girl's face was altered when she was alone. Her features in themselves
were not lovely. Her cheeks and chin were heavy. Her brow was too low, and her upper lip too
long. Her nose and teeth were good, and would have been very handsome had they belonged to
a man. Her complexion had always been good till it had been injured by being improved,--and
so was the carriage of her head and the outside lines of her bust and figure, and her large
eyes, though never soft, could be bright and sparkle. Skill had done much for her and continued
effort almost more. But now the effort was dropped and that which skill had done turned against
her. She was haggard, lumpy, and almost hideous in her bewildered grief.

Had there been a word of weakness in the short letter she might have founded upon it some hope.
It did not occur to her that he had had the letter written for him, and she was astonished
at its curt strength. How could he dare to say that she had mistaken him? Had she not lain
in his arms while he embraced her? How could he have found the courage to say that he had had
no thought of marriage when he had declared to her that he loved her? She must have known that
she had hunted him as a fox is hunted;--and yet she believed that she was being cruelly ill-used.
For a time all that dependence on Lord Mistletoe and her uncle deserted her. What effect could
they have on a man who would write such a letter as that? Had she known that the words were
the words of his brother-in-law, even that would have given her some hope.

But what should she do? Whatever steps she took she must take at once. And she must tell her
mother. Her mother's help would be necessary to her now in whatever direction she might turn
her mind. She almost thought that she would abandon him without another word. She had been
strong in her reliance on family aid till the time for invoking it had come; but now she believed
that it would be useless. Could it be that such a man as this would be driven into marriage
by the interference of Lord Mistletoe! She would much like to bring down some punishment on
his head; but in doing so she would cut all other ground from under her own feet. There were
still open to her Patagonia and the Paragon.

She hated the Paragon, and she recoiled with shuddering from the idea of Patagonia. But as
for hating,--she hated Lord Rufford most. And what was there that she loved? She tried to ask
herself some question even as to that. There certainly was no man for whom she cared a straw;
nor had there been for the last six or eight years. Even when he was kissing her she was thinking
of her built-up hair, of her pearl powder, her paint, and of possible accidents and untoward
revelations. The loan of her lips had been for use only, and not for any pleasure which she
had even in pleasing him. In her very swoon she had felt the need of being careful at all points.
It was all labour, and all care,--and, alas, alas, all disappointment!

But there was a future through which she must live. How might she best avoid the misfortune
of poverty for the twenty, thirty, or forty years which might be accorded to her? What did
it matter whom or what she hated? The housemaid probably did not like cleaning grates; nor
the butcher killing sheep; nor the sempstress stitching silks. She must live. And if she could
only get away from her mother that in itself would be something. Most people were distasteful
to her, but no one so much as her mother. Here in England she knew that she was despised among
the people with whom she lived. And now she would be more despised than ever. Her uncle and
aunt, though she disliked them, had been much to her. It was something,--that annual visit
to Mistletoe, though she never enjoyed it when she was there. But she could well understand
that after such a failure as this, after such a game, played before their own eyes in their
own house, her uncle and her aunt would drop her altogether. She had played this game so boldly
that there was no retreat. Would it not therefore be better that she should fly altogether?

There were a time on that morning in which she had made up her mind that she would write a
most affectionate letter to Morton, telling him that her people had now agreed to his propositions
as to settlement, and assuring him that from henceforward she would be all his own. She did
think that were she to do so she might still go with him to Patagonia. But, if so, she must
do it at once. The delay had already been almost too long. In that case she would not say a
word in reply to Lord Rufford, and would allow all that to be as though it had never been.
Then again there arose to her mind the remembrance of Rufford Hall, of all the glories, of
the triumph over everybody. Then again there was the idea of a "forlorn hope." She thought
that she could have brought herself to do it, if only death would have been the alternative
of success when she had resolved to make the rush.

It was nearly one when she went to her mother and even then she was undecided. But the joint
agony of the solitude and the doubts had been too much for her and she found herself constrained
to seek a counsellor. "He has thrown you over," said Lady Augustus as soon as the door was closed.

"Of course he has," said Arabella walking up the room, and again playing her part even before
her mother.

"I knew it would be so."

"You knew nothing of the kind, mamma, your saying so is simply an untruth. It was you who put
me up to it."

"Arabella, that is false."

"It wasn't you, I suppose, who made me throw over Mr. Morton and Bragton."

"Certainly not."

"That is so like you, mamma. There isn't a single thing that you do or say that you don't deny
afterwards." These little compliments were so usual among them that at the present moment they
excited no great danger. "There's his letter. I suppose you had better read it." And she chucked
the document to her mother.

"It is very decided," said Lady Augustus.

"It is the falsest, the most impudent, and the most scandalous letter that a man ever wrote
to a woman. I could horsewhip him for it myself if I could get near him."

"Is it all over, Arabella?"

"All over! What questions you do ask, mamma! No. It is not all over. I'll stick to him like
a leech. He proposed to me as plainly as any man ever did to any woman. I don't care what people
may say or think. He hasn't heard the last of me; and so he'll find." And thus in her passion
she made up her mind that she would not yet abandon the hunt.

"What will you do, my dear?"

"What will I do? How am I to say what I will do? If I were standing near him with a knife in
my hand I would stick it into his heart. I would! Mistaken him! Liar! They talk of girls lying;
but what girl would lie like that?"

"But something must be done"

"If papa were not such a fool as he is, he could manage it all for me," said Arabella dutifully.
"I must see my father and I must dictate a letter for him. Where is papa?"

"In London, I suppose."

"You must come up to London with me tomorrow. We shall have to go to his club and get him out.
It must be done immediately; and then I must see Lord Mistletoe, and I will write to the Duke."

"Would it not be better to write to your papa?" said Lady Augustus, not liking the idea of
being dragged away so quickly from comfortable quarters.

"No; it wouldn't. If you won't go I shall, and you must give me some money. I shall write to
Lord Rufford too."

And so it was at last decided, the wretched old woman being dragged away up to London on some
excuse which the Connop Greens were not sorry to accept. But on that same afternoon Arabella
wrote to Lord Rufford:

Your letter has amazed me. I cannot understand it. It seems to be almost impossible that it
should really have come from you. How can you say that I have mistaken you? There has been
no mistake. Surely that letter cannot have been written by you.

Of course I have been obliged to tell my father everything.
                               Arabella.

On the following day at about four in the afternoon the mother and daughter drove up to the
door of Graham's Club in Bond Street, and there they found Lord Augustus. With considerable
difficulty he was induced to come down from the whist room, and was forced into the brougham.
He was a handsome fat man, with a long grey beard, who passed his whole life in eating, drinking,
and playing whist, and was troubled by no scruples and no principles. He would not cheat at
cards because it was dangerous and ungentlemanlike, and if discovered would lead to his social
annihilation; but as to paying money that he owed to tradesmen, it never occurred to him as
being a desirable thing as long as he could get what he wanted without doing so. He had expended
his own patrimony and his wife's fortune, and now lived on an allowance made to him by his
brother. Whatever funds his wife might have not a shilling of them ever came from him. When
he began to understand something of the nature of the business on hand, he suggested that his
brother, the Duke, could do what was desirable infinitely better than he could. "He won't think
anything of me," said Lord Augustus.

"We'll make him think something," said Arabella sternly. "You must do it, papa. They'd turn
you out of the club if they knew that you had refused." Then he looked up in the brougham and
snarled at her. "Papa, you must copy the letter and sign it."

"How am I to know the truth of it all?" he asked.

"It is quite true," said Lady Augustus. There was very much more of it, but at last he was
carried away bodily, and in his daughter's presence he did write and sign the following letter;--

My Lord,

I have heard from my daughter a story which has surprised me very much. It appears that she
has been staying with you at Rufford Hall, and again at Mistletoe, and that while at the latter
place you proposed marriage to her. She tells me with heart-breaking concern that you have
now repudiated your own proposition,--not only once made but repeated. Her condition is most
distressing. She is in all respects your Lordship's equal. As her father I am driven to ask
you what excuse you have to make, or whether she has interpreted you aright.

                    I have the honour to be,
                      Your very humble servant,
                        Augustus Trefoil.

CHAPTER XXIII

"In these Days one can't make a Man marry"

This was going on while Lord Rufford was shooting in the neighbourhood of Dillsborough; and
when the letter was being put into its envelope at the lodgings in Orchard Street, his Lordship
was just sitting down to dinner with his guests at the Bush. At the same time John Morton was
lying ill at Bragton;--a fact of which Arabella was not aware.

The letter from Lord Augustus was put into the post on Saturday evening; but when that line
of action was decided upon by Arabella she was aware that she must not trust solely to her
father. Various plans were fermenting in her brain; all, or any of which, if carried out at
all, must be carried out at the same time and at once. There must be no delay, or that final
chance of Patagonia would be gone. The leader of a forlorn hope, though he be ever so resolved
to die in the breach, still makes some preparation for his escape. Among her plans the first
in order was a resolution to see Lord Mistletoe whom she knew to be in town. Parliament was
to meet in the course of the next week and he was to move the address. There had been much
said about all this at Mistletoe from which she knew that he was in London preparing himself
among the gentlemen at the Treasury. Then she herself would write to the Duke. She thought
that she could concoct a letter that would move even his heart. She would tell him that she
was a daughter of the house of Trefoil, and "all that kind of thing." She had it distinctly
laid down in her mind. And then there was another move which she would make before she altogether
threw up the game. She would force herself into Lord Rufford's presence and throw herself into
his arms,--at his feet if need be,--and force him into compliance. Should she fail, then she,
too, had an idea what a raging woman could do. But her first step now must be with her cousin
Mistletoe. She would not write to the Duke till she had seen her cousin.

Lord Mistletoe when in London lived at the family house in Piccadilly, and thither early on
the Sunday morning she sent a note to say that she especially wished to see her cousin and
would call at three o'clock on that day. The messenger brought back word that Lord Mistletoe
would be at home, and exactly at that hour the hired brougham stopped at the door. Her mother
had wished to accompany her but she had declared that if she could not go alone she would not
go at all. In that she was right; for whatever favour the young heir to the family honours
might retain for his fair cousin, who was at any rate a Trefoil, he had none for his uncle's
wife. She was shown into his own sitting-room on the ground floor, and then he immediately
joined her. "I wouldn't have you shown upstairs," he said, "because I understand from your
note that you want to see me in particular."

"That is so kind of you."

Lord Mistletoe was a young man about thirty, less in stature than his father or uncle, but
with the same handsome inexpressive face. Almost all men take to some line in life. His father
was known as a manager of estates; his uncle as a whist-player; he was minded to follow the
steps of his grandfather and be a statesman. He was eaten up by no high ambition but lived
in the hope that by perseverance he might live to become a useful Under Secretary, and perhaps,
ultimately, a Privy Seal. As he was well educated and laborious, and had no objection to sitting
for five hours together in the House of Commons with nothing to do and sometimes with very
little to hear, it was thought by his friends that he would succeed. "And what is it I can
do?" he said with that affable smile to which he had already become accustomed as a government
politician.

"I am in great trouble," said Arabella, leaving her hand for a moment in his as she spoke.

"I am sorry for that. What sort of trouble?" He knew that his uncle and his aunt's family were
always short of money, and was already considering to what extent he would go in granting her
petition.

"Do you know Lord Rufford?"

"Lord Rufford! Yes;--I know him; but very slightly. My father knows him very much better than
I do."

"I have just been at Mistletoe, and he was there. My story is so hard to tell. I had better
out with it at once. Lord Rufford has asked me to be his wife."

"The deuce he has! It's a very fine property and quite unembarrassed."

"And now he repudiates his engagement" Upon hearing this the young lord's face became very
long. He also had heard something of the past life of his handsome cousin, though he had always
felt kindly to her. "It was not once only."

"Dear me! I should have thought your father would be the proper person."

"Papa has written;--but you know what papa is."

"Does the Duke know of it,--or my mother?"

"It partly went on at Mistletoe. I would tell you the whole story if I knew how." Then she
did tell him her story, during the telling of which he sat profoundly silent. She had gone
to stay with Lady Penwether at Lord Rufford's house, and then he had first told her of his
love. Then they had agreed to meet at Mistletoe, and she had begged her aunt to receive her.
She had not told her aunt at once, and her aunt had been angry with her because they had walked
together. Then she had told everything to the Duchess and had begged the Duchess to ask the
Duke to speak to Lord Rufford. At Mistletoe Lord Rufford had twice renewed his offer,--and
she had then accepted him. But the Duke had not spoken to him before he left the place. She
owned that she thought the Duchess had been a little hard to her. Of course she did not mean
to complain, but the Duchess had been angry with her because she had hunted. And now, in answer
to the note from herself, had come a letter from Lord Rufford in which he repudiated the engagement.
"I only got it yesterday and I came at once to you. I do not think you will see your cousin
treated in that way without raising your hand. You will remember that I have no brother?"

"But what can I do?" asked Lord Mistletoe. She had taken great trouble with her face, so that
she was able to burst out into tears. She had on a veil which partly concealed her. She did
not believe in the effect of a pocket handkerchief, but sat with her face half averted. "Tell
him what you think about it," she said.

"Such engagements, Arabella," he said, "should always be authenticated by a third party. It
is for that reason that a girl generally refers her lover to her father before she allows herself
to be considered as engaged."

"Think what my position has been! I wanted to refer him to my uncle and asked the Duchess."

"My mother must have had some reason. I'm sure she must. There isn't a woman in London knows
how such things should be done better than my mother. I can write to Lord Rufford and ask him
for an explanation; but I do not see what good it would do."

"If you were in earnest about it he would be--afraid of you."

"I don't think he would in the least. If I were to make a noise about it, it would only do
you harm. You wouldn't wish all the world to know that he had--jilted me! I don't care what
the world knows. Am I to put up with such treatment as that and do nothing? Do you like to
see your cousin treated in that way?"

"I don't like it at all. Lord Rufford is a good sort of man in his way, and has a large property.
I wish with all my heart that it had come off all right; but in these days one can't make a
man marry. There used to be the alternative of going out and being shot at; but that is over now."

"And a man is to do just as he pleases?"

"I am afraid so. If a man is known to have behaved badly to a girl, public opinion will condemn
him."

"Can anything be worse than this treatment of me?" Lord Mistletoe could not tell her that he
had alluded to absolute knowledge and that at present he had no more than her version of the
story;--or that the world would require more than that before the general condemnation of which
he had spoken would come. So he sat in silence and shook his head. "And you think that I should
put up with it quietly!"

"I think that your father should see the man." Arabella shook her head contemptuously. "If
you wish it I will write to my mother."

"I would rather trust to my uncle."

"I don't know what he could do;--but I will write to him if you please."

"And you won't see Lord Rufford?"

He sat silent for a minute or two during which she pressed him over and over again to have
an interview with her recreant lover, bringing up all the arguments that she knew, reminding
him of their former affection for each other, telling him that she had no brother of her own,
and that her own father was worse than useless in such a matter. A word or two she said of
the nature of the prize to be gained, and many words as to her absolute right to regard that
prize as her own. But at last he refused. "I am not the person to do it," he said. "Even if
I were your brother I should not be so,--unless with the view of punishing him for his conduct;--in
which place the punishment to you would be worse than any I could inflict on him. It cannot
be good that any young lady should have her name in the mouths of all the lovers of gossip
in the country."

She was going to burst out at him in her anger, but before the words were out of her mouth
she remembered herself. She could not afford to make enemies and certainly not an enemy of
him. "Perhaps, then," she said, "you had better tell your mother all that I have told you.
I will write to the Duke myself."

And so she left him, and as she returned to Orchard Street in the brougham, she applied to
him every term of reproach she could bring to mind. He was selfish, and a coward, and utterly
devoid of all feeling of family honour. He was a prig, and unmanly, and false. A real cousin
would have burst out into a passion and have declared himself ready to seize Lord Rufford by
the throat and shake him into instant matrimony. But this man, through whose veins water was
running instead of blood, had no feeling, no heart, no capability for anger! Oh, what a vile
world it was! A little help,--so very little,--would have made everything straight for her! This was granted, and hastily gathering a large squad
of soldiers, left the capital decided to die on the claim or bring the Princess's letter Khan
of Tartary and the son of the Khan, alive or dead.

After the departure of General, Princess saw fit to inform the Fortunate King of what had happened.
The King was beside himself. He said the history of bird Green was a ridiculous dream of his daughter
and the washerwoman, and complained that her daughter founded in a dream, sent so many murderers
against an illustrious Prince, missing laws hospitality, the law
of nations and all the moral precepts.

- Oh daughter! - Cried - you
have taken a clear bloody smear on my behalf, if not remedied.

The Princess also grieved and regretted what he had done. Despite his vehement love the Prince of
China, and preferred to leave forever charmed by their love shed a single drop of blood.

So he sent dispatches to the general to not engage a battle, but to no avail. The general had gone
so fast that there was no way to reach you. Then had not telegraph and offices could not be delivered.
When they reached the post where he was the general, they saw all the soldiers fled to the King
and followed suit. The forty of the guard Tartar, who were so many geniuses, ran in pursuit
transformed into hideous monsters, who threw fire from his mouth.

Only the general, whose bravery, coolness and skill in arms bordered on the superhuman, remained
undaunted in the midst of terror sick excusable. The general went to the Prince, the only
enemy who could deal with fantasy, and began to quarrel with him more brave and extraordinary
fight. But guns were delighted Tartar Prince, and general could not hurt. Knowing then that
it was impossible to kill him if he did not use a stratagem, moved a long way from his opponent,
broke a long fast and strong silk sash which encircled the waist, made her without being noticed,
a loop elusive and stirring on the Prince with unprecedented speed, threw the noose around his neck,
and continued with his horse at full speed, knocking the Prince and dragging in the race.

Thus general drowned Tartar Prince. As soon died, disappeared geniuses, and the soldiers of King
Fortunate rallied and gathered to his boss. This waited with them the messengers who brought
the letter from the Khan of Tartary, and did not wait long.

On the evening of that day went back into the general at the palace of King Fortunate the letter
from the Khan of Tartary hands.

Using a gentle and respectful greeting, handed to the princess.

It broke the seal and began to read, but to no avail: he did not understand a word. Fortunate
King same thing happened.

They called all employees in the interpretation of tongues, not also figured that writing.
Individuals came twelve royal academies and then were no more working.

The seven wise, so deep in linguistics, which had just come without
the phoenix, and they were therefore condemned to die, also attended,
but, although they were promised the sorry if you read this letter,
failed to read, nor could tell what language was written.

The Fortunate King was thought then the most unfortunate of all kings
have complained been complicit in a crime in vain, and feared the
vengeance of the powerful Khan of Tartary.

That night eyes could not sleep late.

Her pain was, however, much more desperate, when waking up the next day early morning knew that
the Princess had disappeared, leaving written the following words:

"Father, nor do I seek, or pretend to find out where I go, if you
want me dead.

Suffice know that I'm alive and in good health, but not see me again until you have decoded
Kan mysterious letter and disenchanted my dear Prince. Goodbye. "

VII.

Venturosa Princess had gone with her two friends on foot and on a pilgrimage, to visit a saint
hermit who lived in the wilds and rough mountains towering to a short
distance resembled the capital.

Although the Princess and her friends had wanted to go to the Shrine Knights, had not been possible.
The road was more suited to goats, camels, elephants, horses, mules
and donkeys, which, with forgiveness is that, were the beasts that
are used to ride in that kingdom.

For this and devotion was the princess and without any entourage chirped his two confidants.

The hermit who came to visit was a very penitent man was in the odor of sanctity. The mob also
intended that the hermit was immortal, and was not without reasonable grounds for this claim.
In all the country had no memory of the hermit when it was established in the recesses of
those mountains, which rarely showed himself to human eyes.

The Princess and her friends, attracted by the fame of his virtue
and his science I have been looking seven days for those byways and
byways.

During the day they walked in search between brambles and weeds. At night took shelter in the hollows
of the rocks. Nobody had to guide them and craggy as the site or any of the popular Cabrerizos, for
the inspired fear the curse of the hermit, ready to throw it to who
invaded his domain temporary, or who gets disturbed in his prayers.

It is understood that this hermit, as cursing, a pagan. Despite the natural goodness of his soul,
his religion required him grim and terrible to curse and throw anathema.

But the three friends, imagining, for inspiration, you could read only the hermit the letter,
decided to face his curses and sought him, as aforesaid, for space seven days.

On the night of the seventh and three pilgrims came to the shelter
in a cave to rest, when they discovered the hermit himself, praying
in the background.

A lamp lit with flickering light and that mysterious melancholy retreat.

The three shook to be cursed, and almost repented of having gone there. But the hermit, whose
beard was whiter than snow, which was more wrinkled skin that passes, and whose body was like
a consumptive skeleton, threw over them a glare with eyes, but deep, gleaming like two acuas,
and said in a firm voice, cheerful and gentle:

- Thank goodness you're finally here. Hundred years that you expect. Wished for death, I could not
die until you fulfill a duty that has placed me king of the genii. I am the only scholar who
still speaks and understands spoken language rich in Babel before the confusion. Every word of
this language is an effective spell power and moves to the powers of hell to serve who would
pronounce. The words of this language have virtue of binding and loosing all ties and uniting
and governing laws of natural things. Kabbalah is only an imitation of the language groserísimo
incommunicable and fruitful.

Dialects imperfectísimos very poor and it is the most beautiful and complete language of the
day. Science now, lying and quackery, science compared to that language had itself. Each name
of the language contained in his lyrics the essence of the thing named and its hidden qualities.
All things, at being called by his real name, obey who calls them. Such was the power of the
human race when he had this language, which sought climb the sky, and would have undoubtedly achieved,
if the sky had not provided that the primitive language is forgotten.

Only three well-intentioned scholars, of whom two have died, kept in memory that language. He
also kept, by special privilege of the devils, and Nimrod descendants. The last of them died,
a week has, by order you, O Princess Adventurous! and no longer left in the world but one person
who can descifrarte's letter Khan of Tartary. That person is me, and to make that service, the
King of the Jinn has retained my life ever.

- Well here's the letter, oh venerable and profound wisdom! said the
princess, putting hands of the mysterious hermit writing.

- At the
point I descifrártela, said the hermit, and put on his glasses, and
approached to the reading lamp.

You have two hours he read aloud in the language of the letter was
written.

Every word he uttered, the universe was moved, the stars were covered with mortal paleness,
trembling moon in the sky, and shakes its image among the Ocean waves and the Princess and her
friends had to close my eyes and cover their ears not see the ghosts that were shown, and
not hear the mighty voices, terrible or mourners, who started from the bowels of the troubled
nature.

Finished reading, the hermit took off his glasses and said in a calm voice:

- It is not fair, nor appropriate, nor possible Venturosa Princess oh! you know all that this abominable
letter is enclosed. It is not fair or appropriate, because it is frightful and possessed mysteries.
It is not possible, because in many human languages ​​spoken in the
day are those ineffable mysteries, unspeakable and even inexplicable.

The human race by Through its incomplete and sickly get to know why, when passing thousands
of years, some accidents of things, but always ignore the substance that I know, who knows
the Khan of Tartary and have known scholars who have drawn early
to its elocubraciones, of the most perfect language and non-transferable
and for our sins.

- Well, we're fresh lavanderilla said, if after
what we went to meet you, and since you're the only one who can translate
this tangled letter, go out now that do not want translation.

- Neither
I nor should I, "replied the ancient and secular hermit but I will
tell you what the letter contains interesting to you, and I'll tell
you in very briefly, without stopping in drawings, because the moments
of my life and my death are counted is approaching.

The Prince of China is for its virtues, talent and beauty, the favorite of the king of genius, which
has saved thousands of times from the snares that the Khan of Tartary placed against his life.
Displaying the Khan that he could not kill him, determined to make use of a charm to keep him away from
its subjects and rule in his place in the celestial empire. Well he wanted the Kan charm that
was indestructible and eternal, but could not achieve despite their wonderful knowledge in
magic.

The king of the jinn were opposed to his evil desire, and although he could not completely
ineffective to his enchantments and spells, strip them of much learned of his malice.

The Prince, but turned into a bird, was given power to recover their evening true figure. Prince
also had a palace, where live and be treated with the utmost courtesy, honor and gift due to its August
class.

It was agreed, finally, disappointment, if the following conditions are met, that the Khan, so by
the low opinion they have of women as perverted and vicious as what is the human race in general,
judged impossible to comply.

It was the first condition, and carried out that a woman of twenty years, quiet, spirited and
passionate and lower class people saw the three young men happy,
they are the most beautiful there in the world, out of the bathroom
naked, and that cleanliness and chastity of his soul were such that
they were troubled and staining with the slightest stimulation of
lightness.

This test had to be done in the spring equinox, when all nature excites love. The women had
to feel for the beauty and admire deeply, but in a spiritual and holy.

It was the second condition, and also fulfilled, that the Prince could not show only three moments,
and this in the form of green bird, inspire a love so passionate
and chaste, the Invincible, a princess in her class.

The third condition, which now is running to fulfill, was to seize the Princess of this letter,
and I would interpret it.

The fourth and final condition, compliance with which to intervene have three daughters you hear
me, is as follows. I only have two minutes to live, but before dying I will put in the palace
of Prince Cup next topaz. There will be birds and will be diving and processed into very beautiful
young men. Three you'll see, but you have to maintain, seeing, all your thoughts chastity and virginity
all your souls, loving, however, each one of the three, with a holy love and innocent. The Princess
and the Prince loves China and lavanderilla squire, and both have
shown the innocence of his love, now missing that favorite girl fall
in love with the Princess Secretary by the same style.

    When the three young men happy
    to go to the dining room, you will continue unseen, and will remain
there until the Prince asked the box of entertainment and say, kissing
the cordoncito:

Oh, my lady cordoncito!

Who saw her now!

The Princess, then, and you marry the princess, I shew to the point, and each will a tender kiss
on the cheek left the object of his love. The spell was broken in the act, the Khan of Tartary
die suddenly, and the Prince of China, not only possess the Celestial
Empire, but also inherits all khanates, kingdoms and provinces, which
own right has that charming devil.

Hermit just finished saying these words, grimaced very rare, opened his mouth, stretched his
legs and fell dead.

The Princess and her friends suddenly found themselves behind a mass of verdure, beside Topaz
Cup.

Everything is served as the hermit had said.

The three were in love, all three were chaste or innocent. Even at the point committed to give the gift
and kiss tight felt more than a profound shock to all mysticism and pure.

So I immediately became disenchanted the three youths. China and Tartary were spoken under
the sway of the Prince. The Princess and her friends are still married were more so cute with those
men. The Fortunate King abdicated, and went to live in the court
of his son, who was in Beijing.

The general killed the Tartar Prince got all the decorations China,
the first Mandarin title and a pension of thousands upon thousands
for him and his heirs.

There is, finally, that the Princess Venturosa and Emperor of China and lived longer and happy years,
and had half a dozen kids each more beautiful. The lavanderilla and the Maiden, with their husbands,
followed always enjoying the favor of their Majesties, and being
the major lords over all that land.

PARSONDES

Although love and respect for virtue, do not believe it's so blatant
and so skittish as that of some censors of the day.

If we had to write like them, if we taking their stiffness valid
and sincere, and if we had to adjust to it, our writings, maybe not
the traffic agonies of death, Venegas, nor the cries of hell, Boneta
father would be edifying models to imitate.

Unfortunately, the rigidity is only apparent. The stiffness has no other result than to exasperate
spirits, making them doubt and sneer, if only in dreams, self-righteous
hypocrisy now used.

See, if not, sleep has been a friend of ours, and we moved here full when not for recreation, for
the instruction of the readers.
Our friend dreamed as follows:

- More than 2600 years ago, I was
in Susa a satrap beloved of the great King Art and more rigid, severe,
and morale of all the princes. The holy man had been my Parsondes
teacher, and I had communicated all the communicable of science and
virtue of the first Zoroaster.

Seven years ago because Parsondes,
after illuminating the world with their doctrine, and to form several
disciples worthy of him, had disappeared, and that you return to see
it, either living or dead. Gave good believers, then, for sure Parsondes
had risen to the region uncreated light near Ahura-Mazda, which shone
almost as much as Amschaspandes and Izeds, where eclipsed, at its
own FERU with beatific glow.

My Dear Sir,

Since I last wrote I have had much to trouble me and little perhaps to compensate me for my
trouble. I told you, I think, in one of my former letters that wherever I went I found myself
able to say what I pleased as to the peculiarities of this very peculiar people. I am not now
going to contradict what I said then. Wherever I go I do speak out, and my eyes are still in
my head and my head is on my shoulders. But I have to acknowledge to myself that I give offence.
Mr. Morton, whom you knew at the British Embassy in Washington,-- and who I fear is now very
ill,--parted from me, when last I saw him, in anger because of certain opinions I had expressed
in a clergyman's house, not as being ill-founded but as being antagonistic to the clergyman
himself. This I feel to be unreasonable. And in the neighbourhood of Mr. Morton's house, I
have encountered the ill will of a great many, not for having spoken untruth, for that I have
never heard alleged, but because I have not been reticent in describing the things which I
have seen.

I told you, I think, that I had returned to Mr. Morton's neighbourhood with the view of defending
an oppressed man against the power of the lord who was oppressing him. Unfortunately for me
the lord, though a scapegrace, spends his money freely and is a hospitable kindly-hearted honest
fellow; whereas the injured victim has turned out to be a wretched scoundrel. Scoundrel though
he is, he has still been ill used; and the lord, though good-natured, has been a tyrant. But
the poor wretch has thrown me over and sold himself to the other side and I have been held
up to ignominy by all the provincial newspapers. I have also had to pay through the nose 175
dollars for my quixotism--a sum which I cannot very well afford. This money I have lost solely
with the view of defending the weak, but nobody with whom I have discussed the matter seems
to recognise the purity of my object. I am only reminded that I have put myself into the same
boat with a rascal.

I feel from day to day how thoroughly I could have enjoyed a sojourn in this country if I had
come here without any line of duty laid down for myself. Could I have swum with the stream
and have said yes or no as yes or no were expected, I might have revelled in generous hospitality.
Nothing can be pleasanter than the houses here if you will only be as idle as the owners of
them. But when once you show them that you have an object, they become afraid of you. And industry,--in
such houses as I now speak of, is a crime. You are there to glide through the day luxuriously
in the house,-- or to rush through it impetuously on horseback or with a gun if you be a sportsman.
Sometimes, when I have asked questions about the most material institutions of the country,
I have felt that I was looked upon with absolute loathing. This is disagreeable.

And yet I find it more easy in this country to sympathise with the rich than with the poor.
I do not here describe my own actual sympathies, but only the easiness with which they might
be evoked. The rich are at any rate pleasant. The poor are very much the reverse. There is
no backbone of mutiny in them against the oppression to which they are subjected; but only
the whining of a dog that knows itself to be a slave and pleads with his soft paw for tenderness
from his master; or the futile growlings of the caged tiger who paces up and down before his
bars and has long ago forgotten to attempt to break them. They are a long-suffering race, who
only now and then feel themselves stirred up to contest a point against their masters on the
basis of starvation. 'We. won't work but on such and such terms, and, if we cannot get them,
we will lie down and die.' That I take it is the real argument of a strike. But they never
do lie down and die. If one in every parish, one in every county, would do so, then the agricultural
labourers of the country might live almost as well as the farmers' pigs.

I was present the other day at the opening of Parliament. It was a very grand ceremony, though
the Queen did not find herself well enough to do her duty in person. But the grandeur was everything.
A royal programme was read from the foot of the throne, of which even I knew all the details
beforehand, having read them in the newspapers. Two opening speeches were then made by two
young lords,--not after all so very young,--which sounded like lessons recited by schoolboys.
There was no touch of eloquence,--no approach to it. It was clear that either of them would
have been afraid to attempt the idiosyncrasy of passionate expression. But they were exquisitely
dressed and had learned their lessons to a marvel. The flutter of the ladies' dresses, and
the presence of the peers, and the historic ornamentation of the house were all very pleasant;
but they reminded me of a last year's nut, of which the outside appearance has been mellowed
and improved by time,--but the fruit inside has withered away and become tasteless.

Since that I have been much interested with an attempt,--a further morsel of cobbling, which
is being done to improve the representation of the people. Though it be but cobbling, if it
be in the right direction one is glad of it. I do not know how far you may have studied the
theories and system of the British House of Commons, but, for myself, I must own that it was
not till the other day that I was aware that, though it acts together as one whole, it is formed
of two distinct parts. The one part is sent thither from the towns by household suffrage; and,
this, which may be said to be the healthier of the two as coming more directly from the people,
is nevertheless disfigured by a multitude of anomalies. Population hardly bears upon the question.
A town with 15,000 inhabitants has two members,--whereas another with 400,000 has only three,
and another with 50,000 has one. But there is worse disorder than this. In the happy little
village of Portarlington 200 constituents choose a member among them, or have one chosen for
them by their careful lord; whereas in the great city of London something like 25,000 registered
electors only send four to Parliament. With this the country is presumed to be satisfied. But
in the counties, which by a different system send up the other part of the House, there exists
still a heavy property qualification for voting. There is, apparent to all, a necessity for
change here;--but the change proposed is simply a reduction of the qualification, so that the
rural labourer, whose class is probably the largest, as it is the poorest, in the country,--is
still disfranchised, and will remain so, unless it be his chance to live within the arbitrary
line of some so-called borough. For these boroughs, you must know, are sometimes strictly confined
to the aggregations of houses which constitute the town, but sometimes stretch out their arms
so as to include rural districts. The divisions I am assured were made to suit the aspirations
of political magnates when the first Reform Bill was passed! What is to be expected of a country
in which such absurdities are loved and sheltered?

I am still determined to express my views on these matters before I leave England, and am with
great labour preparing a lecture on the subject. I am assured that I shall not be debarred
from my utterances because that which I say is unpopular. I am told that as long as I do not
touch Her Majesty or Her Majesty's family, or the Christian religion,--which is only the second
Holy of Holies,--I may say anything. Good taste would save me from the former offence, and
my own convictions from the latter. But my friend who so informs me doubts whether many will
come to hear me. He tells me that the serious American is not popular here, whereas the joker
is much run after. Of that I must take my chance. In all this I am endeavouring to do a duty,--feeling
every day more strongly my own inadequacy. Were I to follow my own wishes I should return by
the next steamer to my duties at home.

                   Believe me to be,
                     Dear Sir,
                       With much sincerity,
                         Yours truly,
                           Elias Gotobed.

CHAPTER XXV

Providence interferes

The battle was carried on very fiercely in Mr. Masters' house in Dillsborough, to the misery
of all within it; but the conviction gained ground with every one there that Mary was to be
sent to Cheltenham for some indefinite time. Dolly and Kate seemed to think that she was to
go, never to return. Six months, which had been vaguely mentioned as the proposed period of
her sojourn, was to them almost as indefinite as eternity. The two girls had been intensely
anxious for the marriage, wishing to have Larry for a brother, looking forward with delight
to their share in the unrestricted plenteousness of Chowton Farm, longing to be allowed to
consider themselves at home among the ricks and barns and wide fields; but at this moment things
had become so tragic that they were cowed and unhappy,--not that Mary should still refuse Larry
Twentyman, but that she should be going away for so long a time. They could quarrel with their
elder sister while the assurance was still with them that she would be there to forgive them;--but
now that she was going away and that it had come to be believed by both of them that poor Lawrence
had no chance, they were sad and downhearted. In all that misery the poor attorney had the
worst of it. Mary was free from her stepmother's zeal and her stepmother's persecution at any
rate at night; but the poor father was hardly allowed to sleep. For Mrs. Masters never gave
up her game as altogether lost. Though she might be driven alternately into towering passion
and prostrate hysterics, she would still come again to the battle. A word of encouragement
would, she said, bring Larry Twentyman back to his courtship, and that word might be spoken,
if Mary's visit to Cheltenham were forbidden. What did the letter signify, or all the girl's
protestations? Did not everybody know how self-willed young women were; but how they could
be brought round by proper usage? I tell thee the thing out of line! There is no heart to see such evil!

- Shut up, Tonton, meddling - jumped Concha .-- Who gives you sail to you in this burial? If
Mrs. wants to teach this girl as fair, is going to consult you on how you must do? Do you know
what's even raise children? If there you have it punishes prize that
this will make a working woman, honest!

Someday I will thank you.

- Yes, thanks! Since the cemetery is the will. In one month this part the girl is unknown.

- Well, will you and what you will or do you come here? Are you his mother?

Three or four times rebuked in this way, always taking advantage of
their insolence and the microscopic malice seamstress.

After all, Mary, unable to endure with patience the spectacle, took the decision to leave. There
was a day a lady, and the Grilled excuse that it hurt asked for the bill. Not concealed from
the real Amalia reason, it was aware of their murmuring. Concealed, however.

- Yes, daughter, you understand that the ironing bored.

You do not enjoy in good health.

I'm also below par for days. I have altered nervous system. Fighting life with a sick and now,
to finish off the party, get out that little girl, whom she founded my hopes, so ungrateful
and wicked!

I do not know how I have patience.

Mary hesitated.

- You see, ma'am ... Children are children.

Grandee's wife realized that if he continued on the subject, the laundress was going to say
something unpleasant and hastened to cut the conversation, paying your account and dismissing
with affability.

Did not prevent this that the home say in confidence, in a house where he was to serve what was
going on Quinones. The news was conveyed in confidence, also, of
each other. Soon enough people were aware of the cruelties were that
the child was committed.

The Count de Onis, to escape the public's
curiosity, that bothered him greatly, and even more to get rid of
Amalia, had moved, without telling it, was already near one month
at the Farm. His mother accompanied him. There had written to his
ex-mistress, but All day I thought so, to inform him of its decision.
Such was the fear Valencian had come to inspire, the pen fell from
his hands every time you take for news of his marriage. And let slip
the days continued hesitation, thinking concern at the anger that
she would take over, hoping, like all weak, in that some unforeseen
event commitment deliver him. Of course she would go,--though she could not look
forward with satisfaction to a meeting with the Honble. Mrs. Morton. Then she could not refrain
from alluding to the fact that if "anything were to happen" to John Morton, Reginald himself
would be the Squire of Bragton. Reginald when he received this at once went over to the attorney's
house, but he did not succeed in seeing Mary. He learned, however, that they were all aware
that the journey had been postponed.

To Mrs. Masters it seemed that all this had been a dispensation of Providence. Lady Ushant's
letter had been received on the Thursday and Mrs. Masters at once found it expedient to communicate
with Larry Twentyman. She was not excellent herself at the writing of letters, and therefore
she got Dolly to be the scribe. Before the Thursday evening the following note was sent to
Chowton Farm;

Dear Larry,

Pray come and go to the club with father on Saturday. We haven't seen you for so long! Mother
has got something to tell you.

                    Your affectionate friend,
                              Dolly.

When this was received the poor man was smoking his moody pipe in silence as he roamed about
his own farmyard in the darkness of the night. He had not as yet known any comfort and was
still firm in his purpose of selling the farm. He had been out hunting once or twice but fancied
that people looked at him with peculiar eyes. He could not ride, though he made one or two
forlorn attempts to break his neck. He did not care in the least whether they found or not;
and when Captain Glomax was held to have disgraced himself thoroughly by wasting an hour in
digging out and then killing a vixen, he had not a word to say about it. But, as he read Dolly's
note, there came back something of life into his eyes. He had forsworn the club, but would
certainly go when thus invited. He wrote a scrawl to Dolly, "I'll come," and, having sent it
off by the messenger, tried to trust that there might yet be ground for hope. Mrs. Masters
would not have allowed Dolly to send such a message without good reason.

On the Friday Mrs. Masters could not abstain from proposing that Mary's visit to Cheltenham
should be regarded as altogether out of the question. She had no new argument to offer,--except
this last interposition of Providence in her favour. Mr. Masters said that he did not see why
Mary should not return with Lady Ushant. Various things, however, might happen. John Morton
might die, and then who could tell whether Lady Ushant would ever return to Cheltenham? In
this way the short-lived peace soon came to an end, especially as Mrs. Masters endeavoured
to utilize for general family purposes certain articles which had been purchased with a view
to Mary's prolonged residence away from home. This was resented by the attorney, and the peace
was short-lived.

On the Saturday Larry came, to the astonishment of Mr. Masters, who was still in his office
at half-past seven. Mrs. Masters at once got hold of him and conveyed him away into the sacred
drawing-room. "Mary is not going," she said.

"Not going to Cheltenham!"

"It has all been put off. She shan't go at all if I can help it."

"But why has it been put off, Mrs. Masters?"

"Lady Ushant is coming to Bragton. I suppose that poor man is dying."

"He is very ill certainly."

"And if anything happens there who can say what may happen anywhere else? Lady Ushant will
have something else except Mary to think of, if her own nephew comes into all the property."

"I didn't know she was such friends with the Squire as that"

"Well;--there it is. Lady Ushant is coming to Bragton and Mary is not going to Cheltenham."
This she said as though the news must be of vital importance to Larry Twentyman. He stood for
awhile scratching his head as he thought of it. At last it appeared to him that Mary's continual
residence in Dillsborough would of itself hardly assist him. "I don't see, Mrs. Masters, that
that will make her a bit kinder to me."

"Larry, don't you be a coward,--nor yet soft."

"As for coward, Mrs. Masters, I don't know--"

"I suppose you really do love the girl."

"I do;--I think I've shown that."

"And you haven't changed your mind?"

"Not a bit"

"That's why I speak open to you. Don't you be afraid of her. What's the letter which a girl
like that writes? When she gets tantrums into her head of course she'll write a letter."

"But there's somebody else, Mrs. Masters.

"Who says so? I say there ain't nobody;--nobody. If anybody tells you that it's only just to
put you off. It's just poetry and books and rubbish. She wants to be a fine lady."

"I'll make her a lady."

"You make her Mrs. Twentyman, and don't you be made by any one to give it up. Go to the club
with Mr. Masters now, and come here just the same as usual. Come to-morrow and have a gossip
with the girls together and show that you can keep your pluck up. That's the way to win her."
Larry did go to the club and did think very much of it as he walked home. He had promised to
come on the Sunday afternoon, but he could not bring himself to believe in that theory of books
and poetry put forward by Mrs. Masters. Books and poetry would not teach a girl like Mary to
reject her suitor if she really loved him.

CHAPTER XXVI

Lady Ushant at Bragton

On the Sunday Larry came into Dillsborough and had "his gossip with the girls" according to
order;--but it was not very successful. Mrs. Masters who opened the door for him instructed
him in a special whisper "to talk away just as though he did not care a fig for Mary." He made
the attempt manfully,--but with slight effect. His love was too genuine, too absorbing, to
leave with him the power which Mrs. Masters assumed him to have when she gave him such advice.
A man cannot walk when he has broken his ankle-bone, let him be ever so brave in the attempt.
Larry's heart was so weighed that he could not hide the weight. Dolly and Kate had also received
hints and struggled hard to be merry. In the afternoon a walk was suggested, and Mary complied;
but when an attempt was made by the younger girls to leave the lover and Mary together, she
resented it by clinging closely to Dolly;--and then all Larry's courage deserted him. Very
little good was done on the occasion by Mrs. Masters' manoeuvres.

On the Monday morning, in compliance with a request made by Lady Ushant, Mary walked over to
Bragton to see her old friend. Mrs. Masters had declared the request to be very unreasonable.
"Who is to walk five miles and back to see an old woman like that?" To this Mary had replied
that the distance across the fields to Bragton was only four miles and that she had often walked
it with her sisters for the very pleasure of the walk. Well,
then! If you had knowledge, child, you give thanks to God for having put a teacher who is like
a glory. To serve the endin too, for his hands are too thin and feet ready, eh, you?

Concha had been serious again, sitting down and doing an imperious gesture to the girl to approach.
Tocábale the turn of the grammar. Walked here even worse than ever, séase lack of memory or because
they fear the mob. Began thrashing: a ballenazo now and then another and another and another.
Manin, true to his educational, clapping mouth full, serious cutting, carefully, in geometric
pieces of bread before to lead in all seriousness to his lips. The faults were many, the blows
were many others. But at the end of the lesson, Concha considered more appropriate punishment
each violation, taking into account how badly she had done, it was appropriate to end with a general
bashing that comprise all. He lifted the chair and brandishing a formidable whale said:

- Now, for you to study better and you will awaken the senses, making!

Were so many tough blows, the creature, trying to escape that martyrdom, caught with his hands
clenched to the skirts of his executioner. Somehow, perhaps by having hung them unconsciously,
that held the tape broke and came to the ground, leaving only the seamstress shirt. He gave a cry of shame
and quickly lifted. But without stopping to tie the ribbon again, looking deep grudge against
the girl stay out of the hands holding them.

- Have you done, good, good, good! - Manin said, neatly carving bite
to would lead to the mouth.

The creature, paralyzed with terror, not crying. Not even the wounds ached. After few moments
he appeared again accompanied by Mrs. Concha. This came smiling sarcastically.

- Apparently, Miss now likes the girls to undress in front of men.

Will you be happy, lady, is not it? Manin've seen it everywhere Concha. Right, Manin, who has
been comfortably?

He took a few steps. The girl drew back frightened.

- Do not worry, miss. Calm yourself, lady. I do not come here to whip you. That the whipping
is very old. Who remembers and whipping!

Just come to invite you to take a turn in the cave ... Cave of the
mice ... you know.

There can entertain in a rat stripped of many that come to visit ... Come on, give me hand
for the lead with all ceremony.

The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and
Concha, ran around the table and finally took refuge behind the butler.

-
Manin!

Manin, by God, hide me!

But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady. Each one by one they took the hand and dragged
her, despite his piercing cries.

- A cave no! The cave is not! Godmother, sorry!

Kill me first. It seems I have a lot of fear! The cave is not that I eat the mice!

The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent
and serious.

The cries of the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading to the basement.

Amalia
opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter into the interior. Closed fury, but she
ran towards the exit door and took her hand.

They heard a cry heartbreaking. The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature
she fell to the floor and locked it.

The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint rays of light a porthole
open on top. He served in the past to wine cellar. Now there was no there than empty bottles.

The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice
knotted in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong earthquake, fell
faint.

After half an hour the groom, who had witnessed the closure, moved
by compassion, He approached the door and looked through the keyhole.

Could see nothing. He called very softly.

- Josephine.

The girl did not respond. He knocked louder. The same silence. Startled, she screamed and hit
the door with all his might not get answered. Then he hastened to give up part of what was,
at the risk of losing their jobs. Amalia Concha sent the key to see what was happening. Between
her and Paula went to the creature senseless, cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed
on the face. Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's wife rushed
to get her into bed. Took little small to herself, but immediately declared a high fever. Llamosa
doctor. Found her badly. To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia, fertile
in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended to believe.

He was between life and death a few days. Amalia was with eye during disease. No loss hurt the
creature on which he had poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ​​losing
at once his vengeance. Just the third days of being in bed Josephine, was reported last night that
Fernanda had left in the post-chaise to Madrid, and Luis only take four or five days to meet
with it. Experienced violent shaking. A seething wave of bile filled his chest. That night had
a fever too. He escaped! There was no possible retaliation for the
traitor.

Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the news of the death of his daughter cry a little,
after the caresses of his beloved wife would forget it. Love those so long, so alive, there
would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and Lancia a poor old woman serving sad
scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla. Their flesh flaccid trembled. Vengeful instincts of their
race shouted angry, overwhelming. No, could not be! Before throwing
his daughter dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart.

He thought, singular and terrible to tell her husband everything.

Knew what it give of themselves, but for now would cause a scandal. D. Peter was violent, had
great power and prestige.

Who knows the havoc that could cause the pump? True, he was paralyzed and could not take revenge
into their own hands, but what would happen to not be so arrogant
man and punctilious means of returning the wrong which he felt?

She would fall among the ruins, but fall with the traitor like if somehow paid their perfidy.

After
much struggle with this thought, not risking to confess by word or
write under his signature, sent to D. Pedro, disguising the letter,
an anonymous letter.

"The girl you've collected six years ago is the daughter of his wife
and a gentleman who frequents home and who you call your friend.

I do not tell you the name. Search and soon you to find the traitor
.-- A loyal friend.

"Echola the mail and waited anxiously for the effect it produced.

D. Peter was in front of it and read it.

His face fell sharply and pulled cadaverous pallor.

- Who do you write? - Naturally she asked.

The Grandee recovered immediately and folding up the letter and keeping
it, he retaliated by efforts to ensure his voice trembling:

- Nothing,
a complaint of mine who recommended that you have been laid off ...
That governor!

No has no memory or formality.

And restless and looking forward to the events he retired to his cabinet.

Afternoon Jacoba mysteriously came and gave him a ticket from the count.

- What you want from me man? - Surprised and asked scornfully.

- I do not know, ma'am. Wrote the letter in my house and there wait response.

Count the ticket said:

"Amalia, I know our daughter is in danger of death. For heaven's sake in this world for the salvation
of your soul, grant me an interview. I need to talk. If this afternoon can not be, come tomorrow
morning Jacoba's house .-- Yours, Luis. "

- Yours!

Yours! - Murmured with a bitter smile .-- You have been mine, yes,
but has changed hands.

It will cost you dearly.

- I have answer, miss?

He was thoughtful
for a moment, took a few laps around the room, completely abstracted;
approached the balcony and looked out the windows.

At last he said, turning to means and with great Drying:

- Well,
tomorrow when mass.

- I asked with great interest by the child.

-
Tell that remains the same.

Funky's intrusive, and she remained a long time looking at the street,
through the glass, without seeing it.

From seven o'clock the next day Luis was waiting in the shack Jacoba. There was no more than a
kitchen on the ground floor and a living room with bedroom above, so low Count ceiling with
a hat that played in the ceiling. In this parlor was furious rides with his hands in his pockets,
looking carefully at every moment by the curtains of only window I had. Until nine did not
attend the queen. The blanket was thrown reach through the eyes, the prayer book in hand and
a rosary hanging from the wrist with a firm step and calm, as if it came to giving some orders
to his former protege. When she heard his voice in the kitchen, turned over his heart, he trembled
like a leaf and was deleted completely the words he had prepared.

- How are you, Count? "- She said to come very naturally, holding out a hand.

- Well, how about you?

He lifted his head as if surprised to be heard and answered staring tutear:

- Perfectly.

- And the girl?

- Something better.

Despejose hearing this the face of the gentleman. Shone a ray of joy in his eyes and said holding
hands with his former mistress and pulling her to the sofa poor straw was there.

- Sit, Amalia. Although a presumption on my part, I beg you let me go tuteándote when we're alone
... I do not forget, I can not ever forget how many hours of happiness I owe, how much happiness
you have poured into my life dull and dreary. You have revealed me as sweet and intimate that
existed in my heart without me even suspected.

For you have been the first stirrings of my soul. Only you have penetrated so far into it, you've
probed and know their blues, their weaknesses, and tenderness. If I separate from you, if I say
goodbye our love, do not think it's because I no longer required: only obey a law of nature that
drives us all to create a family. I have no more than the world My mother, a poor old woman
soon leave me alone ... You should not want to seem wrong make a home and have an heir of
my name and my title ... Moreover, the cry of conscience chasing me ...

The Count, delighted with the improvement of the girl, showed more
expansive and talkative than usual could not hide the happiness that
was upon him, thinking that everything was arranged as their wishes.

Josefina happy next to his mother beside him happy Fernanda; Amalia
taxed resigned and sweet and always love the purest daily.

It looked at him with mock curiosity. When he finished, he smiled benevolently:

- Especially since the night you saw that lovely Fernanda with low-cut dress, that cry must have
become unbearable.

The Count smiled, embarrassed.

- Do not believe it, Amalia, I've always felt remorseful. It is clear
that to be an old one see things more clearly.

My beard and bleaching in several places, as you are watching.

What a young person can apologize as madness, as the hopelessness
of the fire expansion runs through the veins, called on an old crime.

Love, at the age where I am, should not cover with their wings in
the light of reason, and if the lid deserve the label of a fool.

My serna bitter resolution may both. To me it is much, I can hardly let go of a passion that time
force has almost become a habit.

There is also, by Unfortunately, a bond between the two completely unbreakable. Fate has given
birth the mire of our sin a beautiful flower, a naive lily. Murdering his depart Front: as
it has been generated by an illegitimate love, not spotted with our behavior reprehensible.
Let us make ourselves worthy of it live as Christians.

- It is well that. I just feel that this course of Christian doctrine has been so late and coincided
with the arrival in this population of your old girlfriend. Because it looks and if you had
forgotten all about the catechism, and she came to refresh your memory.

But in sum, I must not get involved because it does not concern me.
The result is that you marry.

Do well. The only bad man, and when is a worthy companion, as you
have found, no to miss the occasion.

Fernanda is a good girl, I'm sure that will make you happy. You will have many children and,
after a long and happy life, you will go to heaven.

Luis watched; that resignation and could not help but feel some concern.

- And you will be happy too? - Asked timidly.

- Me?

... What matters to me to be happy or unhappy! - Said, shrugging his shoulders with a gesture
dismissive.

- Do not say that, Amalia!

Happiness is not madness to give us seven years.

There was a bitter aftertaste that I perceived it long ago, and you
would soon perceive.

A pure and decent life, peace of conscience, the estimation of honest people give you more happy
that the guilty passion ... You also have what I have no ... have
by your side an angel, a sweet and fragrant lily to embalm your existence.

-
Ah, yes, Josefina!

... Indeed, it will provide to me the only good times we pass on.

He said a strange voice inflection, so sharp and shrill, that Louis
felt a chill.

- What do you mean?

- What I have said, which fortunately
I have a Josephine to recover.

- Is that what you say in a way so
weird!

The Valencian chuckled unique out beyond the bottom of the
throat and sounded so sinister. Luis stared at her, getting restless.

-
But what a fool you, Luis! But what retontísimo! Selfishness has such
cataracts your eyes do not see or what you have ahead. If you had
twenty years, that innocence may might inspire pity your age does
not inspire me more than laughter and contempt. Think that four palabrillas
insolent about morals and conscience would be enough to force me to
accept satisfied with the humiliation that I impose, I suppose, if
you do not know who you ought to know, I agree that I throw like a
dirty rag, which I love drag as a captive at the foot of Fernanda
to serve you up a cushion when your bed is the height of stupidity
and bravado. Why not also ask me to be your bridesmaid?

The count
watched with eyes wide, expressing anxiety and fear.

- So what I
have said about the torture you happen to our daughter is that true?

-
And so accurate! And still not know completely ... Look, I referírtelos
everyone to not mislead you ...

And with word brief, incisive, with
a cruel satisfaction that is reflected by the voice, he front of the
big picture of the miseries and horrible pain that the unfortunate
creature had suffered in recent months. That painting was infinitely
more terrifying than Mary had exhibited the ironer. The count, pale,
haggard, without the slightest movement, it seemed the statue of despair.
After a while she covered her face with her hands and so listened
to the end.

- Oh, how vile! Oh, how vile! - Murmured softly.

- Yes,
very infamous, but still hope to be more. Have you heard all these
outrages? Well, are nothing compared with that will.

- Not gonna
make such a wicked child, - uttered Luis rising and rushing to her
.-- Before you drown in my hands.

The Valencian escaped out the door.

-
If you take a step further, cry!

- Oh, infamous, infamous! - She
cried a deep voice Count .-- And God agrees on land these monsters!

He
stepped back and fell back on the couch. He rested his elbows on his
knees and put his head in his hands. After a long silence up, saying:

-
Well, what do you demand of me? But John Morton, after once saying that he loved her, had never
tired, had never wished to escape. He had been so true to his love, so true to his word, that
he had borne from her usage which would have fully justified escape had escape been to his
taste. But to the last he had really loved her, and now, on his death bed, he had sent for
her to come to him. She would not be coward enough to refuse his request. "Should he say anything
to you about his will don't refuse to hear him, because it may be of the greatest importance,"
Lady Augustus whispered to her daughter as the carriage was driven up to the front door.

It was then four o'clock, and it was understood that the two ladies were to stay that one night
at Bragton, a letter having been received by Lady Ushant that morning informing her that the
mother as well as the daughter was coming. Poor Lady Ushant was almost beside herself,--not
knowing what she would do with the two women, and having no one in the house to help her. Something
she had heard of Lady Augustus, but chiefly from Mrs. Hopkins who certainly had not admired
her master's future mother-in-law. Nor had Arabella been popular; but of her Mrs. Hopkins had
only dared to say that she was very handsome and "a little upstartish." How she was to spend
the evening with them Lady Ushant could not conceive,--it having been decided, in accordance
with the doctor's orders, that the interview should not take place till the next morning. When
they were shown in Lady Ushant stood just within the drawing-room door and muttered a few words
as she gave her hand to each. "How is he?" asked Arabella, throwing up her veil boldly, as
soon as the door was closed. Lady Ushant only shook her head. "I knew it would be so. It is
always so with anything I care for."

"She is so distressed, Lady Ushant," said the mother, "that she hardly knows what she does."
Arabella shook her head. "It is so, Lady Ushant"

"Am I to go to him now?" said Arabella. Then the old lady explained the doctor's orders, and
offered to take them to their rooms. "Perhaps I might say a word to you alone? I will stay
here if you will go with mamma." And she did stay till Lady Ushant came down to her. "Do you
mean to say it is certain," she asked,--certain that he must--die?"

"No;--I do not say that"

"It is possible that he may recover?"

"Certainly it is possible. What is not possible with God?"

"Ah;--that means that he will die." Then she sat herself down and almost unconsciously took
off her bonnet and laid it aside. Lady Ushant, then looking into her face for the first time,
was at a loss to understand what she had heard of her beauty. Could it be the same girl of
whom Mrs. Hopkins had spoken and of whose brilliant beauty Reginald had repeated what he had
heard? She was haggard, almost old, with black lines round her eyes. There was nothing soft
or gracious in the tresses of her hair. When Lady Ushant had been young men had liked hair
such as was that of Mary Masters. Arabella's yellow locks,--whencesoever they might have come,--were
rough and uncombed. But it was the look of age, and the almost masculine strength of the lower
face which astonished Lady Ushant the most. "Has he spoken to you about me?" she said.

"Not to me." Then Lady Ushant went on to explain that though she was there now as the female
representative of the family she had never been so intimate with John Morton as to admit of
such confidence as that suggested.

"I wonder whether he can love me," said the girl.

"Assuredly he does, Miss Trefoil. Why else should he send for you?"

"Because he is an honest man. I hardly think that he can love me much. He was to have been
my husband, but he will escape that. If I thought that he would live I would tell him that
he was free."

"He would not want to be free."

"He ought to want it. I am not fit for him. I have come here, Lady Ushant, because I want to
tell him the truth."

"But you love him?" Arabella made no answer, but sat looking steadily into Lady Ushant's face.
"Surely you do love him."

"I do not know. I don't think I did love him,--though now I may. It is so horrible that he
should die, and die while all this is going on. That softens one you know. Have you ever heard
of Lord Rufford?"

"Lord Rufford;--the young man?"

"Yes;--the young man."

"Never particularly. I knew his father."

"But not this man? Mr. Morton never spoke you of him."

"Not a word."

"I have been engaged to him since I became engaged to your nephew."

"Engaged to Lord Rufford,--to marry him?"

"Yes;--indeed."

"And will you marry him?"

"I cannot say. I tell you this, Lady Ushant, because I must tell somebody in this house. I
have behaved very badly to Mr. Morton, and Lord Rufford is behaving as badly to me."

"Did John know of this?"

"No;--but I meant to tell him. I determined that I would tell him had he lived. When he sent
for me I swore that I would tell him. If he is dying,--how can I say it?" Lady Ushant sat bewildered,
thinking over it, understanding nothing of the world in which this girl had lived, and not
knowing now how things could have been as she described them. It was not as yet three months
since, to her knowledge, this young woman had been staying at Bragton as the affianced bride
of the owner of the house,--staying there with her own mother and his grandmother,--and now
she declared that since that time she had become engaged to another man and that that other
man had already jilted her! And yet she was here that she might make a deathbed parting with
the man who regarded himself as her affianced husband. "If I were sure that he were dying,
why should I trouble him?" she said again.

Lady Ushant found herself utterly unable to give any counsel to such a condition of circumstances.
Why should she be asked? This young woman had her mother with her. Did her mother know all
this, and nevertheless bring her daughter to the house of a man who had been so treated! "I
really do not know what to say," she replied at last.

"But I was determined that I would tell some one. I thought that Mrs. Morton would have been
here." Lady Ushant shook her head. "I am glad she is not, because she was not civil to me when
I was here before. She would have said hard things to me,--though not perhaps harder than I
have deserved. I suppose I may still see him to-morrow."

"Oh yes; he expects it"

"I shall not tell him now. I could not tell him if I thought he were dying. If he gets better
you must tell him all."

"I don't think I could do that, Miss Trefoil."

"Pray do;--pray do. I call upon you to tell him everything."

"Tell him that you will be married to Lord Rufford?"

"No;--not that. If Mr. Morton were well to-morrow I would have him,--if he chose after what
I have told you."

"You do love him then?"

"At any rate I like no one better."

"Not the young lord?"

"No! why should I like him? He does not love me. I hate him. I would marry Mr. Morton tomorrow,
and go with him to Patagonia, or anywhere else,--if he would have me after hearing what I have
done." Then she rose from her chair; but before she left the room she said a word further.
"Do not speak a word to my mother about this. Mamma knows nothing of my purpose. Mamma only
wants me to marry Lord Rufford, and to throw Mr. Morton over. Do not tell anyone else, Lady
Ushant; but if he is ever well enough then you must tell him." After that she went, leaving
Lady Ushant in the room astounded by the story she had heard.

VOLUME III

CHAPTER I

"I have told him Everything."

That evening was very long and very sad to the three ladies assembled in the drawing-room at
Bragton Park, but it was probably more so to Lady Augustus than the other two. She hardly spoke
to either of them; nor did they to her; while a certain amount of conversation in a low tone
was carried on between Lady Ushant and Miss Trefoil. When Arabella came down to dinner she
received a message from the sick man. He sent his love, and would so willingly have seen her
instantly,--only that the doctor would not allow it. But he was so glad,--so very glad that
she had come! This Lady Ushant said to her in a whisper, and seemed to say it as though she
had heard nothing of that frightful story which had been told to her not much more than an
hour ago. Arabella did not utter a word in reply, but put out her hand, secretly as it were,
and grasped that of the old lady to whom she had told the tale of her later intrigues. The
dinner did not keep them long, but it was very grievous to them all. Lady Ushant might have
made some effort to be at least a complaisant hostess to Lady Augustus had she not heard this
story,--had she not been told that the woman, knowing her daughter to be engaged to John Morton,
had wanted her to marry Lord Rufford. The story having come from the lips of the girl herself
had moved some pity in the old woman's breast in regard to her; but for Lady Augustus she could
feel nothing but horror.

In the evening Lady Augustus sat alone, not even pretending to open a book or to employ her
fingers. She seated herself on one side of the fire with a screen in her hand, turning over
such thoughts in her mind as were perhaps customary to her. Would there ever come a period
to her misery, an hour of release in which she might be in comfort ere she died? Hitherto from
one year to another, from one decade to the following, it had all been struggle and misery,
contumely and contempt. She thought that she had done her duty by her child, and her child
hated and despised her. It was but the other day that Arabella had openly declared that in
the event of her marriage she would not have her mother as a guest in her own house. There
could be no longer hope for triumph and glory;--but how might she find peace so that she might
no longer be driven hither and thither by this ungrateful tyrant child? Oh, how hard she had
worked in the world, and how little the world had given her in return!

Lady Ushant and Arabella sat at the other side of the fire, at some distance from it, on a
sofa, and carried on a fitful conversation in whispers, of which a word would now and then
reach the ears of the wretched mother. It consisted chiefly of a description of the man's illness,
and of the different sayings which had come from the doctors who had attended him. It was marvellous
to Lady Augustus, as she sat there listening, that her daughter should condescend to take an
interest in such details. What could it be to her now how the fever had taken him, or why or
when? On the very next day, the very morning on which she would go and sit,---ah so uselessly,--by
the dying man's bedside, her father was to meet Lord Rufford at the ducal mansion in Piccadilly
to see if anything could be dome in that quarter! It was impossible that she should really
care whether John Morton's lease of life was to be computed at a week's purchase or at that
of a month! And yet Arabella sat there asking sick-room questions and listening to sickroom
replies as though her very nature had been changed. Lady Augustus heard her daughter inquire
what food the sick man took, and then Lady Ushant at great length gave the list of his nourishment.
What sickening hypocrisy! thought Lady Augustus.

Lady Augustus must have known her daughter well; and yet if was not hypocrisy. The girl's nature,
which had become thoroughly evil from the treatment it had received, was not altered. Such
sudden changes do not occur more frequently than other miracles. But zealously as she had practised
her arts she had not as yet practised them long enough not to be cowed by certain outward circumstances.
There were moments when she still heard in her imagination the sound of that horse's foot as
it struck the skull of the unfortunate fallen rider;--and now the prospect of the death of
this man whom she had known so intimately and who had behaved so well to her, to whom her own
conduct had been so foully false,--for a time brought her back to humanity. But Lady Augustus
had got beyond that and could not at all understand it.

By nine they had all retired for the night. It was necessary that Lady Ushant should again
visit her nephew, and the mother and daughter went to their own rooms. "I cannot in the least
make out what you are doing," said Lady Augustus in her most severe voice.

"I dare say not, mamma."

"I have been brought here, at a terrible sacrifice--"

"Sacrifice! What sacrifice? You are as well here as anywhere else."

"I say I have been brought here at a terrible sacrifice for no purpose whatever. What use is
it to be? And then you pretend to care what this poor man is eating and drinking and what physic
he is taking when, the last time you were in his company, you wouldn't so much as look at him
for fear you should make another man jealous."

"He was not dying then."

"Psha!"

"Oh yes. I know all that. I do feel a little ashamed of myself when I am almost crying for him,"

"As if you loved him!"

"Dear mamma, I do own that it is foolish. Having listened to you on these subjects for a dozen
years at least I ought to have got rid of all that. I don't suppose I do love him. Two or three
weeks ago I almost thought I loved Lord Rufford, and now I am quite sure that I hate him. But
if I heard tomorrow that he had broken his neck out hunting, I ain't sure but what I should
feel something. But he would not send for me as this man has done."

"It was very impertinent"

"Perhaps it was ill-bred, as he must have suspected something as to Lord Rufford. However we
are here now."

"I will never allow you to drag me anywhere again."

"It will be for yourself to judge of that. If I want to go anywhere, I shall go. What's the
good of quarrelling? You know that I mean to have my way."

The next morning neither Lady Augustus nor Miss Trefoil came down to breakfast, but at ten
o'clock Arabella was ready, as appointed, to be taken into the sick man's bedroom. She was
still dressed in black but had taken some trouble with her face and hair. She followed Lady
Ushant in, and silently standing by the bedside put her hand upon that of John Morton which
was laying outside on the bed. "I will leave you now, John," said Lady Ushant retiring, "and
come again in half an hour,"

"When I ring," he said.

"You mustn't let him talk for more than that," said the old lady to Arabella as she went.

It was more than an hour afterwards when Arabella crept into her mother's room, during which
time Lady Ushant had twice knocked at her nephew's door and had twice been sent away. "It is
all over, mamma!" she said.

Lady Augustus looked into her daughter's eyes and saw that she had really been weeping. "All over!"

"I mean for me,--and you. We have only got to go away."

"Will he die?"

"It will make no matter though he should live for ever. I have told him everything. I did not
mean to do it because I thought that he would be weak; but he has been strong enough for that"

"What have you told him?"

"Just everything--about you and Lord Rufford and myself,--and what an escape he had had not
to marry me. He understands it all now."

"It is a great deal more than I do."

"He knows that Lord Rufford has been engaged to me." She clung to this statement so vehemently
that she had really taught herself to believe that it was so.

"Well!"

"And he knows also how his lordship is behaving to me. Of course he thinks that I have deserved
it. Of course I have deserved it. We have nothing to do now but to go back to London."

"You have brought me here all the way for that"

"Only for that! As the man was dying I thought that I would be honest just for once. Now. that
I have told him I don't believe that he will die. He does not look to be so very ill."

"And you have thrown away that chance!"

"Altogether. You didn't like Bragton you know, and therefore it can't matter to you."

"Like it!"

"To be sure you would have got rid of me had I gone to Patagonia. But he will not go to Patagonia
now even if he gets well; and so there was nothing to be gained. The carriage is to be here
at two to take us to the station and you may as well let Judith come and put the things up."

Just before they took their departure Lady Ushant came to Arabella saying that Mr. Morton wanted
to speak one other word to her before she went. So she returned to the room and was again left
alone at the man's bedside. "Arabella," he said, "I thought that I would tell you that I have
forgiven everything."

"How can you have forgiven me? There are things which a man cannot forgive."

"Give me your hand,"' he said,--and she gave him her hand. "I do forgive it all. Even should
I live it would be impossible that we should be man and wife."

"Oh yes."

"But nevertheless I love you. Try,--try to be true to some one."

"There is no truth left in me, Mr. Morton. I should not dishonour my husband if I had one,
but still I should be a curse to him. I shall marry some day I suppose, and I know it will
be so. I wish I could change with you,--and die."

"You are unhappy now."

"Indeed I am. I am always unhappy. I do not think you can tell what it is to be so wretched.
But I am glad that you have forgiven me." Then she stooped down and kissed his hand. As she
did so he touched her brow with his hot lips, and then she left him again. Lady Ushant was
waiting outside the door. "He knows it all," said Arabella. "You need not trouble yourself
with the message I gave you. The carriage is at the door. Good-bye. You need not come down.
Mamma will not expect it." Lady Ushant, hardly knowing how she ought to behave, did not go
down. Lady Augustus and her daughter got into Mr. Runciman's carriage without any farewells,
and were driven back from the park to the Dillsborough Station. To poor Lady Ushant the whole
thing had been very terrible. She sat silent and unoccupied the whole of that evening wondering
at the horror of such a history. This girl had absolutely dared to tell the dying man all her
own disgrace,--and had travelled down from London to Bragton with the purpose of doing so!
When next she crept into the sick-room she almost expected that her nephew would speak to her
on the subject; but he only asked whether that sound of wheels which he heard beneath his window
had come from the carriage which had taken them away, and then did not say a further word of
either Lady Augustus or her daughter.

"And what do you mean to do now?" said Lady Augustus as the train approached the London terminus.

"Nothing."

"You have given up Lord Rufford?"

"Indeed I have not"

"Your journey to Bragton will hardly help you much with him."

"I don't want it to help me at all. What have I done that Lord Rufford can complain of? I have
not abandoned Lord Rufford for the sake of Mr. Morton. Lord Rufford ought only to be too proud
if he knew it all."

"Of course he could make use of such an escapade as this?"

"Let him try. I have not done with Lord Rufford yet, and so I can tell him. I shall be at the
Duke's in Piccadilly to-morrow morning."

"That will be impossible, Arabella."

"They shall see whether it is impossible. I have got beyond caring very much what people say
now. I know the kind of way papa would be thrown over if there is no one there to back him.
I shall be there and I will ask Lord Rufford to his face whether we did not become engaged
when we were at Mistletoe."

"They won't let you in."

"I'll find a way to make my way in. I shall never be his wife. I don't know that I want it.
After all what's the good of living with a man if you hate each other,--or living apart like
you and papa?"

"He has income enough for anything!" exclaimed Lady Augustus, shocked at her daughter's apparent
blindness.

"It isn't that I'm thinking of, but I'll have my revenge on him. Liar! To write and say that
I had made a mistake! He had not the courage to get out of it when we were together; but when
he had run away in the night, like a thief, and got into his own house, then he could write
and say that I had made a mistake! I have sometimes pitied men when I have seen girls hunting
them down, but upon my word they deserve it!" This renewal of spirit did something to comfort
Lady Augustus. She had begun to fear that her daughter, in her despair, would abandon altogether
the one pursuit of her life;--but it now seemed that there was still some courage left for
the battle.

That night nothing more was said, but Arabella applied all her mind to the present condition
of her circumstances. Should she or should she not go to the House in Piccadilly on the following
morning? At last she determined that she would not do so, believing that should her father
fail she might make a better opportunity for herself afterwards. At her uncle's house she would
hardly have known where or how to wait for the proper moment of her appearance. "So you are
not going to Piccadilly," said her mother on the following morning.

"It appears not," said Arabella.

CHAPTER II

"Now what have you got to say?"

It may be a question whether Lord Augustus Trefoil or Lord Rufford looked forward to the interview
which was to take place at the Duke's mansion with the greater dismay. The unfortunate father
whose only principle in life had been that of avoiding trouble would have rather that his daughter
should have been jilted a score of times than that he should have been called upon to interfere
once. There was in this demand upon him a breach of a silent but well-understood compact. His
wife and daughter had been allowed to do just what they pleased and to be free of his authority,
upon an understanding that they were never to give him any trouble. She might have married
Lord Rufford, or Mr. Morton, or any other man she might have succeeded in catching, and he
would not have troubled her either before or after her marriage. But it was not fair that he
should be called upon to interfere in her failures. And what was he to say to this young lord?
Being fat and old and plethoric he could not be expected to use a stick and thrash the young
lord. Pistols were gone,--a remembrance of which fact perhaps afforded some consolation. Nobody
now need be afraid of anybody, and the young lord would not be afraid of him. Arabella declared
that there had been an engagement. The young lord would of course declare that there had been
none. Upon the whole he was inclined to believe it most probable that his daughter was lying.
He did not think it likely that Lord Rufford should have been such a fool. As for taking Lord
Rufford by the back of his neck and shaking him into matrimony, he knew that that would be
altogether out of his power. And then the hour was so wretchedly early. It was that little
fool Mistletoe who had named ten o'clock,--a fellow who took Parliamentary papers to bed with
him, and had a blue book brought to him every morning at half-past seven with a cup of tea.
By ten o'clock Lord Augustus would not have had time to take his first glass of soda and brandy
preparatory to the labour of getting into his clothes. But he was afraid of his wife and daughter,
and absolutely did get into a cab at the door of his lodgings in Duke Street, St. James', precisely
at a quarter past ten. As the Duke's house was close to the corner of Clarges Street the journey
he had to make was not long.

Lord Rufford would not have agreed to the interview but that it was forced upon him by his
brother-in-law. "What good can it do?" Lord Rufford had asked. But his brother-in-law had held
that that was a question to be answered by the other side. In such a position Sir George thought
that he was bound to concede as much as this,--in fact to concede almost anything short of
marriage. "He can't do the girl any good by talking," Lord Rufford had said. Sir George assented
to this, but nevertheless thought that any friend deputed by her should be allowed to talk,
at any rate once. "I don't know what he'll say. Do you think he'll bring a big stick?" Sir
George who knew Lord Augustus did not imagine that a stick would be brought. "I couldn't hit
him, you know. He's so fat that a blow would kill him." Lord Rufford wanted his brother-in-law
to go with him; but Sir George assured him that this was impossible. It was a great bore. He
had to go up to London all alone,--in February, when the weather was quite open and hunting
was nearly coming to an end. And for what? Was it likely that such a man as Lord Augustus should
succeed in talking him into marrying any girl? Nevertheless he went, prepared to be very civil,
full of sorrow at the misunderstanding, but strong in his determination not to yield an inch.
He arrived at the mansion precisely at ten o'clock and was at once shown into a back room on
the ground floor. He saw no one but a very demure old servant who seemed to look upon him as
one who was sinning against the Trefoil family in general, and who shut the door upon him,
leaving him as it were in prison. He was so accustomed to be the absolute master of his own
minutes and hours that he chafed greatly as he walked up and down the room for what seemed
to him the greater part of a day. He looked repeatedly at his watch, and at half-past ten declared
to himself that if that fat old fool did not come within two minutes he would make his escape.

"The fat old fool" when he reached the house asked for his nephew and endeavoured to persuade
Lord Mistletoe to go with him to the interview. But Lord Mistletoe was as firm in refusing
as had been Sir George Penwether. "You are quite wrong," said the young man with well-informed
sententious gravity. "I could do nothing to help you. You are Arabella's father and no one
can plead her cause but yourself." Lord Augustus dropped his eyebrows over his eyes as this
was said. They who knew him well and had seen the same thing done when his partner would not
answer his call at whist or had led up to his discard were aware that the motion was tantamount
to a very strong expression of disgust. He did not, however, argue the matter any further,
but allowed himself to be led away slowly by the same solemn servant. Lord Rufford had taken
up his hat preparatory to his departure when Lord Augustus was announced just five minutes
after the half hour.

When the elder man entered the room the younger one put down his hat and bowed. Lord Augustus
also bowed and then stood for a few moments silent with his fat hands extended on the round
table in the middle of the room. "This is a very disagreeable kind of thing, my Lord," he said.

"Very disagreeable, and one that I lament above all things," answered Lord Rufford:

"That's all very well;--very well indeed;--but, damme, what's the meaning of it all? That's
what I want to ask. What's the meaning of it all?" Then he paused as though he had completed
the first part of his business,--and might now wait awhile till the necessary explanation had
been given. But Lord Rufford did not seem disposed to give any immediate answer. He shrugged
his shoulders, and, taking up his hat, passed his hand once or twice round the nap. Lord Augustus
opened his eyes very wide as he waited and looked at the other man; but it seemed that the
other man had nothing to say for himself. "You don't mean to tell me, I suppose, that what
my daughter says isn't true."

"Some unfortunate mistake, Lord Augustus;--most unfortunate."

"Mistake be--." He stopped himself before the sentence was completed, remembering that such
an interview should be conducted on the part of him, as father, with something of dignity.
"I don't understand anything about mistakes. Ladies don't make mistakes of that kind. I won't
hear of mistakes." Lord Rufford again shrugged his shoulders. "You have engaged my daughter's
affections."

"I have the greatest regard for Miss Trefoil."

"Regard be--." Then again he remembered himself. "Lord Rufford, you've got to marry her. That's
the long and the short of it"

"I'm sure I ought to be proud."

"So you ought"

"But--"

"I don't know the meaning of but, my Lord. I want to know what you mean to do."

"Marriage isn't in my line at all"

"Then what the d-- business have you to go about and talk to a girl like that? Marriage not
in your line? Who cares for your line? I never heard such impudence in all my life. You get
yourself engaged to a young lady of high rank and position and then you say that-- marriage
isn't in your line." Upon that he opened his eyes still wider, and glared upon the offender
wrathfully.

"I can't admit that I was ever engaged to Miss Trefoil."

"Didn't you make love to her?"

The poor victim paused a moment before he answered this question, thereby confessing his guilt
before he denied it. "No, my Lord; I don't think I ever did."

"You don't think! You don't know whether you asked my daughter to marry you or not! You don't
think you made love to her!"

"I am sure I didn't ask her to marry me."

"I am sure you did. And now what have you got to say?" Here there was another shrug of the
shoulders. "I suppose you think because you are a rich man that you may do whatever you please.
But you'll have to learn the difference. You must be exposed, Sir."

"I hope for the lady's sake that as little as possible may be said of it."

"D-- the--!" Lord Augustus in his assumed wrath was about to be very severe on his daughter,
but he checked himself again. "I'm not going to stop here talking all day," he said. "I want
to hear your explanation and then I shall know how to act." Up to this time he had been standing,
which was unusual with him. Now he flung himself into an armchair.

"Really, Lord Augustus, I don't know what I've got to say. I admire your daughter exceedingly.
I was very much honoured when she and her mother came to my house at Rufford. I was delighted
to be able to show her a little sport. It gave me the greatest satisfaction when I met her
again at your brother's house. Coming home from hunting we happened to be thrown together.
It's a kind of thing that will occur, you know. The Duchess seemed to think a great deal of
it; but what can one do? We could have had two post chaises, of course,--only one doesn't generally
send a young lady alone. She was very tired and fainted with the fatigue. That I think is about
all."

"But,--damme, Sir, what did you say to her?" Lord Rufford again rubbed the nap of his hat.
"What did you say to her first of all, at your own house?"

"A poor fellow was killed out hunting and everybody was talking about that. Your daughter saw
it herself."

"Excuse me, Lord Rufford, if I say that that's what we used to call shuffling, at school. Because
a man broke his neck out hunting--"

"It was a kick on the head, Lord Augustus."

"I don't care where he was kicked. What has that to do with your asking my daughter to be your
wife?"

"But I didn't"

"I say you did,--over and over again." Here Lord Augustus got out of his chair, and made a
little attempt to reach the recreant lover;--but he failed and fell back again into his armchair.
"It was first at Rufford, and then you made an appointment to meet her at Mistletoe. How do
you explain that?"

"Miss Trefoil is very fond of hunting."

"I don't believe she ever went out hunting in her life before she saw you. You mounted her,--and
gave her a horse,--and took her out,--and brought her home. Everybody at Mistletoe knew all
about it. My brother and the Duchess were told of it. It was one of those things that are plain
to everybody as the nose on your face. What did you say to her when you were coming home in
that post chaise?"

"She was fainting."

"What has that to do with it? I don't care whether she fainted or not. I don't believe she
fainted at all. When she got into that carriage she was engaged to you, and when she got out
of it she was engaged ever so much more. The Duchess knew all about it. Now what have you got
to say?" Lord Rufford felt that he had nothing to say. "I insist upon having an answer." Came close to private Lancia always saw this magnanimous and funny man. Retired
three years ago, was to settle in his country, where he one only. Nostalgia for Lancia, the
gathering of Quiñones, and especially teasing Valero his colleague, prompted him to leave the
Galician country to come back to live between lacienses. Valero, promoted to chairman of the
Board, more worn every day, more roistering and ceceoso, sits to the left of the hero. Moro front
is ideal for all inaccessible marriageable girls, whose tireless head easily supports twelve hours
of sitting without dizziness or confusion whatsoever. Of all the institutions created by men,
the strongest, this is the most respectable, the triplet. For his unwavering strength compares
very well to the immutable laws of nature. For Moro is so true that the sword is worth the
rough, like the falling bodies follow a uniformly accelerated motion. Y there in the dark depths
of the camera sleeps in the same chair with his glorious panties Manin short green cloth coat
and strong spiked shoes. His hair is gray, almost white. But this is not the worst for him. What
is truly sad is that people do not consider and as a fierce hunter aged in the fight with the bears
of the mountains. That legend has been slowly dissipating. His countrymen were right. Manin
was only one zampatortas. Lancia also laugh at their exploits and you look like an old fool's
mad and heraldic Mr. Quinones.

Fernanda finally managed to evade the congratulations of his friends
and went to sit in a corner section.

I was sad. The hostility of the owners of the house she was impressed. But this was not the main
thing, though she do for believing. The hidden reason that he was ashamed to confess to herself,
it was Luis. The warm greeting of his former boyfriend had awakened Suddenly all his memories, all
his hopes, sorrows and joys of another time slept on the bottom of his heart like birds among
the leaves of the tree. Inner turmoil was intense, but nothing or very little was reflected
by severe cold continent. However, felt a strong shudder to listen very close to his ear these
words:

- What are you wearing beautiful, Fernanda!

He was so distracted that he did not notice that the count was sitting
at his side.

Unwittingly hand was the site of the heart.

Answer immediately, smiled and said:

- Do you agree?

- Yes ... And I do old, right?

Made an effort and looked at his face intently.

- No, some gray in his beard ... and feel a bit fatigued.

The tremor of his voice contrasted with the apparent indifference
that wanted to give his words.

The count grew suddenly serious, She took his hand to his forehead and replied after a few moments
with somber tone as if speaking to himself:

- Tired, yes, that is the right word ... Very tired! ... The fatigue I get through the pores.

Both kept silence. The count was given to intense meditation outlined in against deep wrinkles. Finally
he said, striking up conversation again:

- I seen you before coming here.

- Where? - Affecting surprise she asked.

- On the road. I left this afternoon for a ride on horseback and I bumped into the chaise.
I knew you well.

- Well I have not seen ... I remember that there are two or three
riders before reaching Lancia but I have not met any.

In saying this could not prevent a wave of crimson dyed them again
her cheeks.

He returned to cover the head. His eyes met those of Amalia, who rested upon them shining, sidewalks.
Contempláronse an instant. Feline mouth Valencia contracted with a smile. Fernanda wanted to
correspond with another as false, but could not.

He turned back to the Count and talked of things indifferent, theater,
music, travel plans.

However, it was more and more worried.

Was losing his poise and spoke mistakes, as if he wandered away from
his thoughts.

Silent moments, struggling to say something, moved about his lips,
but rather to articulate what I wanted, expressing something else,
something trivial and ridiculous that he was embarrassed as he left
them.

Fernanda watched him with attention, winning the serenity and calm
that he lost quickly.

Appeared embedded in complete the conversation, describing his impressions of travel naturally
expressing their views with the same indifference if not mediate between them than an old quiet
friendship. Be concluded by Luis taciturn. Resolution finally had to say, taking advantage of
a moment of silence

- When were you approached me very distracted. What were you thinking?

- I do not remember ... What you thought you would want?

The Count hesitated a moment, but encouraged by the gracious smile of his ex-girlfriend dared
to articulate:

- In me.

Fernanda looked at him in silence, mocking curiosity under which sparked a joy impossible to hide.
The count is up to the ears turned red, and probably would have given
the scissors for not having uttered those two fatal monosyllables.

-
Well ...-- Young said rising from his chair .-- bye.

Good to see you good.

- Listen!

- What? - Said the step back to get away and had him posing in eyes smiling and malicious concluded
to fascinate.

- Sorry if my words have offended you.

Fernanda was a sneer and walked away, exclaiming:

- Repent, sinner, hell you go!

Hell! This word, dropped lightly, as a joke, he turn around his heart; raised concerns of its
existence continued for some time.

All Gayoso had lived under the baleful influence of this idea. But the terror of her grandparents
seemed dilate in spirit, tormenting, maddening.

Amalia needed to fight heroically to distract you for a short time of his scruples. So now, when
he made a sign for who approached, saw him rise from his chair and gloomy approached slowly
as if to drive him. She had too much talent and pride to show wound short conversation we had had
with his former girlfriend. Received him with the same smile, he led the floor with normal and
affected lightness, and did not remember or name Fernanda. But his pale lips contracted with
courage every time I saw him turn his eyes toward it.

And so gullible was often.

A beautiful girl with blue eyes and golden flowing hair appeared at
the door, led by a domestic.

- Oh, how late! - Mrs. Quinones said
.-- Why has it taken you both bring, Paula? - Added sternly.

It said that the girl had fun playing that give milano, and cried every time I wanted to sleep.

- Do not you dream still rich mine? - Said the lady bringing it to
himself and passing his hand tenderly by the loops of her hair.

The circles are keenly interested in the creature.

Was receiving caresses each other and paying them with affectionate kisses goodbye.

- Good night, Josephine .-- Until tomorrow, rich .-- Have you been
good today? - Do you have bought your godmother wrist close your eyes?

The count looked with moist eyes, making incredible efforts to control his emotions. The always felt
his view was offered that girl.

When it was over once did to rub his face with his lips candid.

But Joseph, with that admirable instinct Children have to know who loves them, hung around his
neck giving direct evidence affection.

Fernanda also watched with keen interest, with an intense curiosity
that made him open very eyes.

Josephine was six, pearly complexion, the eyes of a sweet infinite blue and melancholy, something
sad and sickly throughout his diminutive person. The Count resemblance
was obvious.

When she left him, eyes that collided with Fernando. He felt embarrassed: it was to sit farther away.

Josefina
elegantly dressed. The lords of the Quiñones lovingly raised as an adopted child. For a long
time this was the favorite topic of gossip Lancia. A differential with keen interest the cost
of your hats, it was said the number of toys that they bought; hacíanse calculations on the amount
that would endow upon marriage. But they had already exhausted of
much comment.

Shot came only when some allusion was let out sharp, or news to hear some new discovery.

The girl went to a group where they were Maria Josefa, the maid of the tongue devastating and
Manuel Antonio, beautiful long as the first rays of the morning.

- Listen, Josefina, who do you want more, your sponsor or your sponsor? - He asked that.

- A sponsor - said the girl without hesitation.

- And who want more,
do your sponsor or the count?

The girl looked surprised with her big blue eyes. They went through a burst of confidence and
replied, furrowing his brow beautiful:

- In my godfather.

- But the count does not bring you many toys?

Do not you take by car to the farm?

Do not you have purchased the charro outfit?

- Yes ... but it is my godfather.

The laughter of the group welcomed this response. They realized that the girl was lying. Don
Pedro was not the man to inspire affection lively one.

- Well, I think the count is also your pa ... Drina.

- Not so, I
have no more than one sponsor - said the girl, more and more suspicious.

And

he left the group.

It was where I was Amalia stood over him crossing his arms over his
chest and said with bow:

- Godmother, the blessing.

The lady gave her hand, kissed the girl with respectful affection.

Then, holding it in their arms, kissed her forehead.

- You rest,
my child.

Go ask a blessing to your sponsor.

The girl went to the cabinet.

These practices are very pleased last time the master of Quiñones.

Josephine approached him shyly.

That great man paralyzed always filled him with fear, even tried to hide it because it had commanded
her godmother.

- Lord's blessing - he said dully.

The high and mighty Grandee ignored.

Fixed on the cards in his hand, wrapped Talma in gray with red cross
on his chest, was growing by the eyes troubled times of poor Josephine.

Would not understand that nothing in the world's largest, most impressive
and worthy of respect that the noble lord.

In this opinion involved D. Pedro. So had long since resolved confound all things around him
in a chaotic mass, in which only two or three appeared with a single
character.

The girl waited with his arms crossed about a quarter of an hour. Finally Mr. Quinones, after
playing a fortune entry, deigned to stick in her a stern look that
became pale.

He reached his aristocratic hand gesture worthy of his namesake Peter
the Great Russia and Josephine fell on her trembling lips and left.

I was not quite as exalted the man with his wife so lovingly nourishing
a foundling, but consented because it flattered his vanity.

Amalia had told him, knowing where it hurt:
- Would raise it to anyone in domestic Lancia. We must do things
otherwise.

D. Peter could not help but feel the weight of this undeniable
truth.

Josefina crossed the room to go to bed. To skim to Fernanda,
who was sitting and alone, it's caught on the fly by a little arm
and pulled. All the joy, all the tenderness at that time overflowed
his heart, desbordose with violence on the creature, who covered it
with kisses. Not agreed to any of his rival, who guessed expired.
Only thought that it was his daughter, his blood, the same image.
And kissed with rapture those blue eyes deep, melancholic, that pearly
complexion, those golden curls that circles his face as a halo of
light.

- Oh, what beautiful hair! What a beautiful thing, my God!

And
pressed his lips against it and even dipped his face in his threads
with such delight and tenderness that was about to mourn.

At that
moment a loud voice, imperious, rang in his ears.

- Have not you
gone to bed, urchin!

And looking up saw Amalia, his face pale, his
lips tight, she took the girl violently by the arm giving it a strong
shake and crawled to the door.

XI

Amalia's anger.

The next morning,
Paula, by order of her mistress, took the girl to her room iron, her
in a high chair and asked the maid scissors, stitching at the foot
of the balcony.

- What are you doing? - Asked Josephine.

- Cut your
hair.

- Why? ... I do not want to cut my hair.

And they came down
firmly in the saddle. Paula turned to lift her.

- Hold on, now -
he said sternly.

- I do not want! ... I do not want! - Said with
a graceful resolution.

- The truth is that pity so beautiful a hair
cut - said one of the maids, who was ironing.

- What is it, daughter?
The boss, boss.

And taking one of the beautiful curls of her hair,
spread it a snip.

- Let me go, Paula! - Cried the girl .-- I'll tell
godmother!

- Yes, sweetheart? Are you going to tell really godmother?
... Well, I'll tell when we finish.

And pay more attention to their
protests, dropping the buzz words, continued unperturbed task. But
she got back, irritated, angry. Paula then asked for help to Concha,
seamstress, and while it was subject to the chair, it was stripping
the one by one from all loops. Managed as best he could after the
remaining hair.

- What a pity - she cried the laundress.

- Child,
so not bad either - said Paula neatly combed.

Now appeared the lady
in the box on the door.

- Godmother! See, godmother! ... Look, Paula
and Concha me cut their hair.

Amalia advanced a few steps across
the room and avoiding the gaze of the girl stared severe in his head,
and said imperiously, and cold:

- Not a good thing. You cut the monkfish.

And
he walked away with the furrowed brow. Josefina, stunned, his eyes
followed her. I had never seen in the face of his godmother so coldly
and harshly. Was shocked, thinking and left already without making
the slightest movement, Paula fulfill the mandate.

It soon became
the head blond peeled like a peach. The home erupted into laughter.

-
Child of my soul that you have retefeísima! - Exclaimed Maria ironing
accent grief, but could not help laughing.

- Do not say that woman
- bitter dejillo Concha said .-- If you are beautiful!

She was twenty-five
years or more, extremely small, almost as small as Josephine hollow-eyed
and surly, whom all feared servants of the house. Her grandson did not tell her all the story, but explained to her
that Lawrence Twentyman, though not poor, had other plans of life and thought of leaving the
neighbourhood. She, of course, had the money; and as she believed that land was the one proper
possession for an English gentleman of ancient family, she doubtless would have been willing
to buy it had she approved of the hands into which it would fall. It seemed to him that it
was her duty to do as much for the estate with which all her fortune had been concerned. "Yes,"
she said; "it should be bought,--if other things suited. We will talk of it to-morrow, John."
Then he spoke of his mission to Patagonia and of his regret that it should be abandoned. Even
were he ever to be well again his strength would return to him too late for this purpose. He
had already made known to the Foreign Office his inability to undertake that service. But she
could perceive that he had not in truth abandoned his hopes of living, for he spoke much of
his ambition as to the public service. The more he thought of it, he said, the more certain
he became that it would suit him better to go on with his profession than to live the life
of a country squire in England. And yet she could see the change which had taken place since
she was last there and was aware that he was fading away from day to day.

It was not till they were summoned to dine together that she saw Lady Ushant. Very many years
had passed since last they were together, and yet neither seemed to the other to be much changed.
Lady Ushant was still soft, retiring, and almost timid; whereas Mrs. Morton showed her inclination
to domineer even in the way in which she helped herself to salt. While the servant was with
them very little was said on either side. There was a word or two from Mrs. Morton to show
that she considered herself the mistress there,--and a word from the other lady proclaiming
that she had no pretensions of that kind. But after dinner in the little drawing-room they
were more communicative. Something of course was said as to the health of the invalid. Lady
Ushant was not the woman to give a pronounced opinion on such a subject. She used doubtful,
hesitating words, and would in one minute almost contradict what she had said in the former.
But Mrs. Morton was clever enough to perceive that Lady Ushant was almost without hope. Then
she made a little speech with a fixed purpose. "It must be a great trouble to you, Lady Ushant,
to be so long away from home."

"Not at all," said Lady Ushant in perfect innocence. "I have nothing to bind me anywhere."

"I shall think it my duty to remain here now,--till the end."

"I suppose so. He has always been almost the same to you as your own."

"Quite so; quite the same. He is my own." And yet,--she left him in his illness! She, too,
had heard something from Mrs. Hopkins of the temper in which Mrs. Morton had last left Bragton.
"But you are not bound to him in that way."

"Not in that way certainly."

"In no way, I may say. It was very kind of you to come when business made it imperative on
me to go to town, but I do not think we can call upon you for further sacrifice."

"It is no sacrifice, Mrs. Morton." Lady Ushant was as meek as a worm, but a worm will turn.
And though innocent, she was quick enough to perceive that at this, their first meeting, the
other old woman was endeavouring to turn her out of the house.

"I mean that it can hardly be necessary to call upon you to give up your time."

"What has an old woman to do with her time, Mrs. Morton?"

Hitherto Mrs. Morton had smiled. The smile indeed had been grim, but it had been intended to
betoken outward civility. Now there came a frown upon her brow which was more grim and by no
means civil. "The truth is that at such a time one who is almost a stranger--"

"I am no stranger," said Lady Ushant.

"You had not seen him since he was an infant"

"My name was Morton as is his, and my dear father was the owner of this house. Your husband,
Mrs. Morton, was his grandfather and my brother. I will allow no one to tell me that I am a
stranger at Bragton. I have lived here many more years than you."

"A stranger to him, I meant. And now that he is ill--"

"I shall stay with him--till he desires me to go away. He asked me to stay and that is quite
enough." Then she got up and left the room with more dignity;--as also she had spoken with
more earnestness,--than Mrs. Morton had given her credit for possessing. After that the two
ladies did not meet again till the next day.

CHAPTER IV

The two old Ladies

On the next morning Mrs. Morton did not come down to breakfast, but sat alone upstairs nursing
her wrath. During the night she had made up her mind to one or two things. She would never
enter her grandson's chambers when Lady Ushant was there. She would not speak to Reginald Morton,
and should he come into her presence while she was at Bragton she would leave the room. She
would do her best to make the house, in common parlance, "too hot" to hold that other woman.
And she would make use of those words which John had spoken concerning Chowton Farm as a peg
on which she might hang her discourse in reference to his will. If in doing all this she should
receive that dutiful assistance which she thought that he owed her,--then she should stand
by his bed-side, and be tender to him, and nurse him to the last as a mother would nurse a
child. But if, as she feared, he were headstrong in disobeying, then she would remember that
her duty to her family, if done with a firm purpose, would have lasting results, while his
life might probably be an affair of a few weeks,--or even days.

At about eleven Lady Ushant was with her patient when a message was brought by Mrs. Hopkins.
Mrs. Morton wished to see her grandson and desired to know whether it would suit him that she
should come now. "Why not?" said the sick man, who was sitting up in his bed. Then Lady Ushant
collected her knitting and was about to depart. "Must you go because she is coming?" Morton
asked. Lady Ushant, shocked at the necessity of explaining to him the ill feeling that existed,
said that perhaps it would be best. "Why should it be best?" Lady Ushant shook her head, and
smiled, and put her hand upon the counterpane,--and retired. As she passed the door of her
rival's room she could see the black silk dress moving behind the partly open door, and as
she entered her own she heard Mrs. Morton's steps upon the corridor. The place was already
almost "too hot" for her. Anything would be better than scenes like this in the house of a
dying man.

"Need my aunt have gone away?" he asked after the first greeting.

"I did not say so."

"She seemed to think that she was not to stay."

"Can I help what she thinks, John?" Of course she feels that she is--"

"Is what?"

"An interloper--if I must say it"

"But I have sent for her, and I have begged her to stay."

"Of course she can stay if she wishes. But, dear John, there must be much to be said between
you and me which,--which cannot interest her; or which, at least, she ought not to hear." He
did not contradict this in words, feeling himself to be too weak, for contest; but within his
own mind he declared that it was not so. The things which interested him now were as likely
to interest his great-aunt as his grandmother, and to be as fit for the ears of the one as
for those of the other.

An hour had passed after this during which she tended him, giving him food and medicine, and
he had slept before she ventured to allude to the subject which was nearest to her heart. "John,"
she said at last, "I have been thinking about Chowton Farm."

"Well."

"It certainly should be bought"

"If the man resolves on selling it."

"Of course; I mean that. How much would it be?" Then he mentioned the sum which Twentyman had
named, saying that he had inquired and had been told that the price was reasonable. "It is
a large sum of money, John."

"There might be a mortgage for part of it"

"I don't like mortgages. The property would not be yours at all if it were mortgaged, as soon
as bought. You would pay 5 per cent. for the money and only get 3 per cent from the land."
The old lady understood all about it.

"I could pay it off in two years," said the sick man.

"There need be no paying off, and no mortgage, if I did it I almost believe I have got enough
to do it." He knew very well that she had much more than enough. "I think more of this property
than of anything in the world, my dear."

"Chowton Farm could be yours, you know."

"What should I do with Chowton Farm? I shall probably be in my grave before the slow lawyer
would have executed the deeds." And I in mine, thought he to himself, before the present owner
has quite made up his mind to part with his land. "What would a little place like that do for
me? But in my father-in-law's time it was part of the Bragton property. He sold it to pay the
debts of a younger son, forgetting, as I thought, what he owed to the estate;--"It had in truth
been sold on behalf of the husband of this old woman who was now complaining. "And if it can
be recovered it is our duty to get it back again. A property like this should never be lessened.
It is in that way that the country is given over to shopkeepers and speculators and is made
to be like France or Italy. I quite think that Chowton Farm should be bought. And though I
might die before it was done, I would find the money."

"I knew what your feeling would be."

"Yes, John. You could not but know it well. But--" Then she paused a moment, looking into his
face. "But I should wish to know what would become of it--eventually."

"If it were yours you could do what you pleased with it."

"But it would be yours."

"Then it would go with the rest of the property."

"To whom would it go? We have all to die, my dear, and who can say whom it may please the Almighty
to take first?"

"In this house, ma'am, every one can give a shrewd guess. I know my own condition. If I die
without children of my own every acre I possess will go to the proper heir. Thinking as you
do, you ought to agree with me in that."

"But who is the proper heir?"

"My cousin Reginald. Do not let us contest it, ma'am. As certainly as I lie here he will have
Bragton when I am gone."

"Will you not listen to me, John?"

"Not about that. How could I die in peace were I to rob him?"

"It is all your own,--to do as you like with."

"It is all my own, but not to do as I like with. 

Going down the stairs with floppy ears, his face lit and the wandering eyes, again appeared before
his imagination with strong attention to the dismemberment, loss eyes, the horse's tail and other
fierce torture of the Visigoth period, which owned by his barbarous heart trace and indomitable
and most cruel.

XIII

Martyrdom.

Hardly had he closed the door behind Baron, Amalia he brought the
girl to her presence.

- Come here, miss, come here!

How long since we have not seen!

How what have you spent? Have you ever been to you all right? Baron
is very gallant with the ladies, right?

The girl uttered a piercing
cry.

- Oh, my ear!

- On your knees, bug! Ah! At the end
of that time she had resolved that she would not yet give it up. Should he regain his health
and strength,--and she would pray fervently night and day that God would be so good to him,--then
everything would be well. Then he would marry and have children, and Bragton would descend
in the right line. But were it to be ordained otherwise, should it be God's will that he must
die, then, as he grew weaker, he would become more plastic in her hands, and she might still
prevail. At present he was stubborn with the old stubbornness, and would not see with her eyes.
She would bide her time and be careful to have a lawyer ready. She turned it all over in her
mind, as she sat there watching him in his sleep. She knew of no one but Mr. Masters whom she
distrusted as being connected with the other side of the family,--whose father had made that
will by which the property in Dillsborough had been dissevered from Bragton. But Mr. Masters
would probably obey instructions if they were given to him definitely.

She thought of it all and then went down to lunch. She did not dare to refuse altogether to
meet the other woman lest such resolve on her part might teach those in the house to think
that Lady Ushant was the mistress. 

These three birds were rare and Lindis, one of them all green, and bright as a emerald. In it
she thought she saw the washerwoman, with great content, which was the cause, according to
all assured the world, the persistent ailment Venturosa Princess. The other two birds were
not, nor nearly as beautiful, but not lacking in merit singular. The three came with very light
flight, and the three were brought down over the cup of topaz and plunged into it.

A little while the laundress saw that the water within transparent three youths came out so cute,
well-educated and white, which seemed outlandish statues made by master hand, with marble tinged
with pink. The girl, in honor of the truth must be said that he had never seen men naked, and
seeing his father, his brothers and other friends, dressed and poorly dressed, could not infer
how far he could rise the human male beauty, figured I looked at three immortal geniuses or
three angels of heaven. That is, without embarrassment, followed looking quite pleased, as
holy objects and nothing sinful. But the three came to the point
of water, and soon wore elegant clothes.

One of them, the most beautiful of the three, took over the head a diadem of emeralds and was
obeyed by the others, as sovereign lord.

If it seemed to bare a lavanderilla angel or a genius for beauty, dress and dazzled her with
his majesty, and it seemed the emperor of the world and the most lovable prince of the land.

These
gentlemen went at once to the dining room and sat on a splendid table where there were three
covered preparations. A music made them submissive and invisible save to reach ears gave them
while they ate. Servants, also invisible, bringing the plates were and serving admirably the
table.

All this I saw and felt the lavanderilla, without being seen or heard, those gentlemen had followed,
and was hidden in the room behind a curtain.

From there he could hear some conversation, and understand that the
most beautiful young men was the Crown Prince of the great empire
of China, and the other two, one his secretary and the other its most
beloved squire, who were delighted and transformed into birds throughout
the day and night only regained their natural, after the source bath.

He noted also the curious washer that Prince of emeralds just ate,
but family members begged him to eat, and that showed rapt melancholy,
exhaling sometimes beautiful model depths of a fiery breath chest.

IV.

The chronicles relate that we capture is finished and that sumptuous and merry little feast
Prince of the emeralds came to himself as from sleep, he cried and said:

- Secretary, bring me the box of my hobbies.

The secretary left the table and went in a little box with the most
precious mortal eyes have seen.

    One in which Alexander the Iliad
    was locked, as opposed to it more sloppy and poor than a box of nougat
Jijona.

    The Prince took the box in his
    hands, opened it and spent a long time gazing with eyes loving what
was in the bottom of it.

Then put your hand in the box and pulled a cord. She kissed him passionately, poured over him
and cried tears of tenderness in these words:

    
    Cordoncito Oh my lady!

Who saw her now!

Replace the cord in the box, and pulled out a league embroidered and very clean. He kissed
her also stroked it and said to kiss:

Oh my league pretty lady! Who saw her now!

He took, finally, a beautiful locket, and if much had kissed cord
and links, the more we kissed and more even stroked her, saying in
a sad tone, which assumed the hearts and even the rocks

Locket Oh
my lady!

Who saw her now!

Soon the Prince and the two families went to their bedroom, and not
lavanderilla dared to follow. Finding himself alone in the room, approached
the table where they were still almost intact the rich delicacies,
the candy, fruit and generous and sparkling wines; but the memory
of the mysterious voice and stopped the invisible hand, and forced
to content to look and smell.

To enjoy this incomplete delight, came
so close to the food, which came to be among the table and the chair
of the Prince. Then he felt, not one, but two invisible hands fell
over her shoulders pressed it. The mysterious voice said:

- Sit down
and eat.

In fact, they danced sitting in the same chair of the Prince,
and as authorized by the voice, began to eat with a special appetite,
the novelty and exquisite food made greater still, and fell fast asleep
eating.
She had twice walked back to Dillsborough with Reginald Morton, and he had been more sedate,
more middle-aged, less like a lover than ever. She knew now that she might safely walk with
him, being sure that he was no more likely to talk of love than would have been old Dr. Nupper
had she accepted the offer which he had made her of a cast in his gig. And now that Reginald
would probably become Squire of Bragton it was more impossible than ever. As Squire of Bragton
he would seek some highly born bride, quite out of her way, whom she could never know. And
then she would see neither him--nor Bragton any more. Would it not have been better that she
should have married Larry Twentyman and put an end to so many troubles beside her own?

Again. she walked back with him to Dillsborough, passing as they always did across the little
bridge. He seemed to be very silent as he went, more so than usual,--and as was her wont with
him she only spoke to him when he addressed her. It was only when he got out on the road that
he told her what was on his mind. "Mary," he said, "how will it be with me if that poor fellow
dies?"

"In what way, Mr. Morton?"

"All that place will be mine. He told me so just now."

"But that would be of course."

"Not at all. He might give it to you if he pleased. He could not have an heir who would care
for it less. But it is right that it should be so. Whether it would suit my taste or not to
live as Squire of Bragton,--and I do not think it would suit my taste well,--it ought to be
so. I am the next, and it will be my duty."

"I am sure you do not want him to die."

"No, indeed. If I could save him by my right hand,--if I could save him by my life, I would do it."

"But of all lives it must surely be the best."

"Do you think so? What is such a one likely to do? But then what do I do, as it is? It is the
sort of life you would like,--if you were a man."

"Yes,--if I were a man," said Mary. Then he again relapsed into silence and hardly spoke again
till he left her at her father's door.

CHAPTER V

The Last Effort

When Mary reached her home she was at once met by her stepmother in the passage with tidings
of importance. "He is up-stairs in the drawing-room," said Mrs. Masters. Mary whose mind was
laden with thoughts of Reginald Morton asked who was the he. "Lawrence Twentyman," said Mrs.
Masters. "And now, my dear, do, do think of it before you go to him." There was no anger now
in her stepmother's face, but entreaty and almost love. She had not called Mary "my dear" for
many weeks past,--not since that journey to Cheltenham. Now she grasped the girl's hand as
she went on with her prayer. "He is so good and so true! And what better can there be for you?
With your advantages, and Lady Ushant, and all that, you would be quite the lady at Chowton.
Think of your father and sisters; what a good you could do them! And think of the respect they
all have for him, dining with Lord Rufford the other day and all the other gentlemen. It isn't
only that he has got plenty to live on, but he knows how to keep it as a man ought. He's sure
to hold up his head and be as good a squire as any of 'em." This was a very different tale;--a
note altogether changed! It must not be said that the difference of the tale and the change
of the note affected Mary's heart; but her stepmother's manner to her did soften her. And then
why should she regard herself or her own feelings? Like others she had thought much of her
own happiness, had made herself the centre of her own circle, had, in her imagination, built
castles in the air and filled them according to her fancy. But her fancies had been all shattered
into fragments; not a stone of her castles was standing; she had told herself unconsciously
that there was no longer a circle and no need for a centre. That last half-hour which she had
passed with Reginald Morton on the road home had made quite sure that which had been sure enough
before. He was not altogether out of her reach, thinking only of the new duties which were
coming to him. She would never walk with him again; never put herself in the way of indulging
some fragment of an illusory hope. She was nothing now, nothing even to herself. Why should
she not give herself and her services to this young man if the young man chose to take her
as she was? It would be well that she should do something in the world. Why should she not
look after his house, and mend his shirts, and reign over his poultry yard? In this way she
would be useful, and respected by all,--unless perhaps by the man she loved. "Mary, say that
you will think of it once more," pleaded Mrs. Masters.

"I may go up-stairs,--to my own room?"

"Certainly; do;--go up and smooth your hair. I will tell him that you are coming to him. He
will wait. But he is so much in earnest now,--and so sad,--that I know he will not come again."

Then Mary went up-stairs, determined to think of it. She began at once, woman-like, to smooth
her hair as her stepmother had recommended, and to remove the dust of the road from her face
and dress. But not the less was she thinking of it the while. Could she do it, how much pain
would be spared even to herself! How much that was now bitter as gall in her mouth would become,--not
sweet,--but tasteless. There are times in one's life in which the absence of all savour seems
to be sufficient for life in this world. Were she to do this thing she thought that she would
have strength to banish that other man from her mind,--and at last from her heart. He would
be there, close to her, but of a different kind and leading a different life. Mrs. Masters
had told her that Larry would be as good a squire as the best of them; but it should be her
care to keep him and herself in their proper position, to teach him the vanity of such aspirations.
And the real squire opposite, who would despise her,--for had he not told her that she would
be despicable if she married this man,--would not trouble her then. They might meet on the
roads, and there would be a cold question or two as to each other's welfare, and a vain shaking
of hands,--but they would know nothing and care for nothing as to each other's thoughts. And
there would come some stately dame who hearing how things had been many years ago, would perhaps--.
But no;--the stately dame should be received with courtesy, but there should be no patronising.
Even in these few minutes up-stairs she thought much of the stately dame and was quite sure
that she would endure no patronage from Bragton.

She almost thought that she could do it. There were hideous ideas afflicting her soul dreadfully,
but which she strove to banish. Of course she could not love him,--not at first. But all those
who wished her to marry him, including himself, knew that;--and still they wished her to marry
him. How could that be disgraceful which all her friends desired? Her father, to whom she was,
as she knew well, the very apple of his eye, wished her to marry this man;--and yet her father
knew that her heart was elsewhere. Had not women done it by hundreds, by thousands, and had
afterwards performed their duties well as mothers and wives. In other countries, as she had
read, girls took the husbands found for them by their parents as a matter of course. As she
left the room, and slowly crept down-stairs, she almost thought she would do it. She almost
thought;--but yet, when her hand was on the lock, she could not bring herself to say that it
should be so.

He was not dressed as usual. In the first place, there was a round hat on the table, such as
men wear in cities. She had never before seen such a hat with him except on a Sunday. And he
wore a black cloth coat, and dark brown pantaloons, and a black silk handkerchief. She observed
it all, and thought that he had not changed for the better. As she looked into his face, it
seemed to her more common,--meaner than before. No doubt he was good-looking,--but his good-looks
were almost repulsive to her. He had altogether lost his little swagger;--but he had borne
that little swagger well, and in her presence it had never been offensive. Now he seemed as
though he had thrown aside all the old habits of his life, and was pining to death from the
loss of them. "Mary," he said, "I have come to you,--for the last time. I thought I would give
myself one more chance, and your father told me that I might have it" He paused, as though
expecting an answer. But she had not yet quite made up her mind. Had she known her mind, she
would have answered him frankly. She was quite resolved as to that. If she could once bring
herself to give him her hand, she would not coy it for a moment. "I will be your wife, Larry."
That was the form on which she had determined, should she find herself able to yield. But she
had not brought herself to it as yet. "If you can take me, Mary, you will,--well,--save me
from lifelong misery, and make the man who loves you the best-contented and the happiest man
in England."

"But, Larry, I do not love you"

"I will make you love me. Good usage will make a wife love her husband. Don't you think you
can trust me?"

"I do believe that I can trust you for everything good."

"Is that nothing?"

"It is a great deal, Larry, but not enough;--not enough to bring together a man and woman as
husband and wife. I would sooner marry a man I loved, though I knew he would ill-use me."

"Would you?"

"To marry either would be wrong."

"I sometimes think, dearest, that if I could talk better I should be better able to persuade you."

"I sometimes think you talk so well that I ought to be persuaded;-- but I can't. It is not
lack of talking."

"What is it, then?"

"Just this;--my heart does not turn itself that way. It is the same chance that has made you--partial
to me."

"Partial! Why, I love the very air you breathe. When I am near you, everything smells sweet.
There isn't anything that belongs to you but I think I should know it, though I found it a
hundred miles away. To have you in the room with me would be like heaven,--if I only knew that
you were thinking kindly of me."

"I always think kindly of you, Larry."

"Then say that you will be my wife." She paused, and became red up to the roots of her hair.
She seated herself on a chair, and then rose again,--and again sat down. The struggle was going
on within her, and he perceived something of the truth. "Say the word once, Mary;--say it but
once." And as he prayed to her he came forward and went down upon his knees.

"I cannot do it," she replied at last, speaking very hoarsely, not looking at him, not even
addressing herself to him.

"Mary!"

"Larry, I cannot do it. I have tried, but I cannot do it. O Larry, dear Larry, do not ask me
again. Larry, I have no heart to give. Another man has it all."

"Is it so?" She bowed her head in token of assent. "Is it that young parson," exclaimed Larry,
in anger.

"It is not. But, Larry, you must ask no questions now. 

Drank another glass, and its effect was so prodigious in the traditional soul of the Baron,
which immediately began to dance the footwork English on the table, without leave by Fray Diego
so many tears to shed.

- Hum!

I do not like this dance extranjis - said at last getting off a jump; - prefer raw dance. Come,
uncle Diego ...

And the strength, taking him by the hand, lifted the chair and began
to walk with him singing one of the long and monotonous chants of
the country.

Fray Diego felt rejuvenated. He remembered his time there in the village cress, when his uncle,
the priest he was grinding Areces to night clubs because they jumped
out the window to go to court the young women from neighboring villages.

-
Hey, Diego - suddenly stopping Baron said .-- Do not you think that
before going drink a drink for the soul of our ancestors?

Friar assented willingly, but the glasses lay broken on the floor and empty jars. The baron opened
a cupboard and took out new elements of spiritual life. This cup funeral inspired him most happy
idea, that of covering the head of the chaplain with his beret and
adorn him spout it, resting on a chair.

So back to the dance dresses, two figures doing really interesting.

Baron stumbled and fell.

- Rise, uncle Diego.

The monk took his hands again he had come loose and pulled hard up. But weight nobleman bowed
and rolled the two on the ground.

- Rise, uncle Diego!

- Rise, Uncle Frank!

Both were rolling by releasing barbaric laughter.

Baron finally managed to stand up. The Chaplain did the same after awhile. But his soul, a moment
illuminated by memories youth, suddenly fell again in the blood and
extermination.

He turned fiercely his friend.

- Whether we realize it at once, porra! Why you called me pot recently? Huh? Huh? Why?

- I'll explain soon, man - replied the Baron calmly, - but before you drink a glass by the congregation
of all Christians, whose visible head is the pope ... say, if you like.

The chaplain did not obstacle.

- Well, I have called dish - clucking
continued - because a dish, do you know? a pan used for the filling
of cooked potatoes.

That said, the Baron fell in a spasm of joy so violent that he almost
drowned. While Thus, the bulging eyes of his comrade looked at him
with an expression that seemed threatening they would jump from their
sockets and thrown on him at times grew as a lobster.

- And why cooked
potatoes? I have so many livers as you cheer! and have proven Orduña
in action and that of Unza, and something I have in my house six crosses.

-
You? Do you? - Said the gentleman could not quiet the laughter .--
You have never served to to the ranch to the squadron.

The Friar's
anger knew no bounds at this.

"And stay there if you can. Don't leave the place to strangers. And go about your business,--and
hunt,--and be a man. I shall always be thinking of what you do. I shall always watch you. I
shall always love you,--always,--always,--always. I always have loved you;-- because you are
so good. But it is a different love. And now, Larry, good-bye." So saying, she raised her face
to look into his eyes. Then he suddenly put his arm round her waist, kissed her forehead, and
left the room without another word.

Mrs. Masters saw him as he went, and must have known from his gait what was the nature of the
answer he had received. But yet she went quickly upstairs to inquire. The matter was one of
too much consequence for a mere inference. Mary had gone from the sitting-room, but her stepmother
followed her upstairs to her bed-chamber. "Mamma," she said, "I couldn't do it;--I couldn't
do it. I did try. Pray do not scold me. I did try, but I could not do it" Then she threw herself
into the arms of the unsympathetic woman, who, however, was now somewhat less unsympathetic
than she had hitherto been.

Mrs. Masters did not understand it at all; but she did perceive that there was something which
she did not understand. What did the girl mean by saying that she had tried and could not do
it? Try to do it! If she tried why could she not tell the man that she would have him? There
was surely some shamefacedness in this, some overstrained modesty which she, Mrs. Masters,
could not comprehend. How could she have tried to accept a man who was so anxious to marry
her, and have failed in the effort? "Scolding I suppose will be no good now," she said.

"Oh no!"

"But--. Well; I suppose we must put up with it. Everything on earth that a girl could possibly
wish for! He was that in love that it's my belief he'd have settled it all on you if you'd
only asked him."

"Let it go, mamma."

"Let it go! It's gone I suppose. 

The Princess awoke, rubbed his eyes, sat up and said:

- Have they become the seven sages who were the country knows?

- Not so, replied the girl, who brings the news is one of the lavanderillas
that watery tissue washed VA

- Then make it into the spot.

Entered the lavanderilla, which was already behind a door waiting for permission, and began to
refer with great punctuality and removed as it had happened.

Upon hearing the appearance of the green bird, the princess filled with joy, and listening to his
departure Water turned into beautiful Prince, reddened like scarlet, a loving heavenly smile
wandered over his lips, and softly closed his eyes to refocus her own and see the Prince in
the eyes of the soul. Finally, knowing the high regard, reverence and affection that the Prince
had him, and love and care that kept the three stolen items on the
beautiful box of your entertainment, the Princess, despite their modesty,
could not contain himself, he hugged and kissed the lavanderilla and
the maid, and made other ends no less excusable, innocent and delicate.

-
Now, he said, that I can call themselves Princess Venturosa.

This fad of owning green bird was not fancy, it was love. It was and is a love, that hidden and
not used way, has entered my heart. I have not seen the Prince, and I think it's beautiful. I
have not spoken, and I presume that it is discreet.
 She had disbelieved, and then believed, and had again disbelieved Arabella's
own statement as to the offer of marriage. But the girl had certainly been in earnest when
she had begged her aunt to ask her uncle to speak to Lord Rufford. Surely when she did she
must have thought that an offer had been made to her. Such offer, if made, had no doubt been
produced by very hard pressure; but still an offer of marriage is an offer, and a girl, if
she can obtain it, has a right to use such an offer as so much property. Then came Lord Mistletoe's
report after his meeting with Arabella up in London. He had been unable to give his cousin
any satisfaction, but he was clearly of opinion that she had been ill-used. He did not venture
to suggest any steps, but did think that Lord Rufford was bound as a gentleman to marry the
young lady. After that Lord Augustus saw her mother up in town and said that it was a d-- shame.
He in truth had believed nothing and would have been delighted to allow the matter to drop.
But as this was not permitted, he thought easier to take his daughter's part than to encounter
family enmity by entering the lists against her. So it came to pass that down at Mistletoe
there grew an opinion that Lord Rufford ought to marry Arabella Trefoil.

But what should be done? The Duke was alive to the feeling that as the girl was certainly his
niece and as she was not to be regarded as a thoroughly bad girl, some assistance was due to
her from the family. Lord Mistletoe volunteered to write to Lord Rufford; Lord Augustus thought
that his brother should have a personal interview with his young brother peer and bring his
strawberry leaves to bear. The Duke himself suggested that the Duchess should see Lady Penwether,--a
scheme to which her Grace objected strongly, knowing something of Lady Penwether and being
sure that her strawberry leaves would have no effect whatever on the baronet's wife. 

These volumes were coming, he leafed through the Princess of the Kings, and read aloud the following
lines:

"The same day he died the Emperor chinoiserie, his only son, who was to inherit, disappeared
of the court and the whole empire.

His subjects, believing him dead, have had to undergo the Khan of
Tartary.

"

- What deduce that, ma'am? said the girl.

- What I infer, "replied the Princess Ventura, but the Khan of Tartary is who has charmed me
to usurp the crown prince? That is why I hate both Tartar prince. Now I'll explain everything.

-
But not enough to explain it is necessary to remedy the situation, said the laundress.

- In this treatment - said the princess - and it should be that men are sent instantly armed,
to inspire greater confidence, all roads and intersections where they will come the emails sent
by the Tartar prince the King his father for advice on If the green bird. The letters that they
bring will be seized and handed me.

If resist the messengers will be dead if they give, they will be imprisoned and held incommunicado,
at so that no one knows what happens. Neither the King, my father
has to know.

All you will have between the three with the greatest secrecy. Here is enough money to buy
the silence, faithfulness and energy of men who have to run my project.

And
indeed, the Princess, who had already risen and was in robe and slippers,
took a showcase for two big bags of gold, and gave them his confidants.

They
departed without delay to implement the agreement, and Princess Ventura
was studying deeply the Astronomical Almanac. Or what could she do with him? A man won't care
for what his sister says to him. And I don't suppose she'd undertake to speak to Lord Rufford
on the subject"

"Lady Penwether is an honourable and an accomplished woman."

"I dare say;--though she gives herself abominable airs."

"Of course, if you don't like it, my dear, it shan't be pressed."

"I thought, perhaps, you'd see him yourself," said Lord Augustus, turning to his brother. "You'd
carry more weight than anybody."

"Of course I will if it be necessary; but it would be disagreeable,--very disagreeable. The
appeal should be made to his feelings, and that I think would better come through female influence.
As far as I know the world a man is always more prone to be led in such matters by a woman
than by another man."

"If you mean me," said the Duchess, "I don't think I could see him. Of course, Augustus, I
don't wish to say anything hard of Arabella. The fact that we have all met here to take her
part will prove that, I think. But I didn't quite approve of all that was done here."

Lord Augustus stroked his beard and looked out of the window. "I don't think, my dear, we need
go into that just now," said the Duke.

