"Yes; we got one and they got one.  'Bout three months ago my cousin Bud, fourteen year old,
was riding through the woods on t'other side of the river, and didn't have no weapon with him,
which was blame' foolishness, and in a lonesome place he hears a horse a-coming behind him,
and sees old Baldy Shepherdson a-linkin' after him with his gun in his hand and his white hair
a-flying in the wind; and 'stead of jumping off and taking to the brush, Bud 'lowed he could
out-run him; so they had it, nip and tuck, for five mile or more, the old man a-gaining all
the time; so at last Bud seen it warn't any use, so he stopped and faced around so as to have
the bullet holes in front, you know, and the old man he rode up and shot him down.  But he
didn't git much chance to enjoy his luck, for inside of a week our folks laid HIM out."

"I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck."

"I reckon he WARN'T a coward.  Not by a blame' sight.  There ain't a coward amongst them Shepherdsons--not
a one.  And there ain't no cowards amongst the Grangerfords either.  Why, that old man kep'
up his end in a fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords, and come out winner.
They was all a-horseback; he lit off of his horse and got behind a little woodpile, and kep'
his horse before him to stop the bullets; but the Grangerfords stayed on their horses and capered
around the old man, and peppered away at him, and he peppered away at them.  Him and his horse
both went home pretty leaky and crippled, but the Grangerfords had to be FETCHED home--and
one of 'em was dead, and another died the next day.  No, sir; if a body's out hunting for cowards
he don't want to fool away any time amongst them Shepherdsons, becuz they don't breed any of
that KIND."

Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybody a-horseback. The men took their
guns along, so did Buck, and kept them between their knees or stood them handy against the
wall.  The Shepherdsons done the same.  It was pretty ornery preaching--all about brotherly
love, and such-like tiresomeness; but everybody said it was a good sermon, and they all talked
it over going home, and had such a powerful lot to say about faith and good works and free
grace and preforeordestination, and I don't know what all, that it did seem to me to be one
of the roughest Sundays I had run across yet.

About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around, some in their chairs and some in their
rooms, and it got to be pretty dull.  Buck and a dog was stretched out on the grass in the
sun sound asleep.  I went up to our room, and judged I would take a nap myself.  I found that
sweet Miss Sophia standing in her door, which was next to ours, and she took me in her room
and shut the door very soft, and asked me if I liked her, and I said I did; and she asked me
if I would do something for her and not tell anybody, and I said I would.  Then she said she'd
forgot her Testament, and left it in the seat at church between two other books, and would
I slip out quiet and go there and fetch it to her, and not say nothing to nobody.  I said I
would. So I slid out and slipped off up the road, and there warn't anybody at the church, except
maybe a hog or two, for there warn't any lock on the door, and hogs likes a puncheon floor
in summer-time because it's cool.  If you notice, most folks don't go to church only when they've
got to; but a hog is different.

Says I to myself, something's up; it ain't natural for a girl to be in such a sweat about a
Testament.  So I give it a shake, and out drops a little piece of paper with "HALF-PAST TWO"
wrote on it with a pencil.  I ransacked it, but couldn't find anything else.  I couldn't make
anything out of that, so I put the paper in the book again, and when I got home and upstairs
there was Miss Sophia in her door waiting for me.  She pulled me in and shut the door; then
she looked in the Testament till she found the paper, and as soon as she read it she looked
glad; and before a body could think she grabbed me and give me a squeeze, and said I was the
best boy in the world, and not to tell anybody.  She was mighty red in the face for a minute,
and her eyes lighted up, and it made her powerful pretty.  I was a good deal astonished, but
when I got my breath I asked her what the paper was about, and she asked me if I had read it,
and I said no, and she asked me if I could read writing, and I told her "no, only coarse-hand,"
and then she said the paper warn't anything but a book-mark to keep her place, and I might
go and play now.

I went off down to the river, studying over this thing, and pretty soon I noticed that my nigger
was following along behind.  When we was out of sight of the house he looked back and around
a second, and then comes a-running, and says:

"Mars Jawge, if you'll come down into de swamp I'll show you a whole stack o' water-moccasins."

Thinks I, that's mighty curious; he said that yesterday.  He oughter know a body don't love
water-moccasins enough to go around hunting for them. What is he up to, anyway?  So I says:

"All right; trot ahead."

I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp, and waded ankle deep as much as
another half-mile.  We come to a little flat piece of land which was dry and very thick with
trees and bushes and vines, and he says:

"You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah's whah dey is. I's seed 'm befo';
I don't k'yer to see 'em no mo'."

Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the trees hid him.  I poked into
the place a-ways and come to a little open patch as big as a bedroom all hung around with vines,
and found a man laying there asleep--and, by jings, it was my old Jim!

I waked him up, and I reckoned it was going to be a grand surprise to him to see me again,
but it warn't.  He nearly cried he was so glad, but he warn't surprised.  Said he swum along
behind me that night, and heard me yell every time, but dasn't answer, because he didn't want
nobody to pick HIM up and take him into slavery again.  Says he:

"I got hurt a little, en couldn't swim fas', so I wuz a considable ways behine you towards
de las'; when you landed I reck'ned I could ketch up wid you on de lan' 'dout havin' to shout
at you, but when I see dat house I begin to go slow.  I 'uz off too fur to hear what dey say
to you--I wuz 'fraid o' de dogs; but when it 'uz all quiet agin I knowed you's in de house,
so I struck out for de woods to wait for day.  Early in de mawnin' some er de niggers come
along, gwyne to de fields, en dey tuk me en showed me dis place, whah de dogs can't track me
on accounts o' de water, en dey brings me truck to eat every night, en tells me how you's a-gitt'n
along."

"Why didn't you tell my Jack to fetch me here sooner, Jim?"

"Well, 'twarn't no use to 'sturb you, Huck, tell we could do sumfn--but we's all right now.
I ben a-buyin' pots en pans en vittles, as I got a chanst, en a-patchin' up de raf' nights when--"

"WHAT raft, Jim?"

"Our ole raf'."

"You mean to say our old raft warn't smashed all to flinders?"

"No, she warn't.  She was tore up a good deal--one en' of her was; but dey warn't no great
harm done, on'y our traps was mos' all los'.  Ef we hadn' dive' so deep en swum so fur under
water, en de night hadn' ben so dark, en we warn't so sk'yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads, as
de sayin' is, we'd a seed de raf'.  But it's jis' as well we didn't, 'kase now she's all fixed
up agin mos' as good as new, en we's got a new lot o' stuff, in de place o' what 'uz los'."

"Why, how did you get hold of the raft again, Jim--did you catch her?"

"How I gwyne to ketch her en I out in de woods?  No; some er de niggers foun' her ketched on
a snag along heah in de ben', en dey hid her in a crick 'mongst de willows, en dey wuz so much
jawin' 'bout which un 'um she b'long to de mos' dat I come to heah 'bout it pooty soon, so
I ups en settles de trouble by tellin' 'um she don't b'long to none uv um, but to you en me;
en I ast 'm if dey gwyne to grab a young white genlman's propaty, en git a hid'n for it?  Den
I gin 'm ten cents apiece, en dey 'uz mighty well satisfied, en wisht some mo' raf's 'ud come
along en make 'm rich agin. Dey's mighty good to me, dese niggers is, en whatever I wants 'm
to do fur me I doan' have to ast 'm twice, honey.  Dat Jack's a good nigger, en pooty smart."

"Yes, he is.  He ain't ever told me you was here; told me to come, and he'd show me a lot of
water-moccasins.  If anything happens HE ain't mixed up in it.  He can say he never seen us
together, and it 'll be the truth."

I don't want to talk much about the next day.  I reckon I'll cut it pretty short.  I waked
up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over and go to sleep again when I noticed how still
it was--didn't seem to be anybody stirring.  That warn't usual.  Next I noticed that Buck was
up and gone. Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down stairs--nobody around; everything
as still as a mouse.  Just the same outside.  Thinks I, what does it mean?  Down by the wood-pile
I comes across my Jack, and says:

"What's it all about?"

Says he:

"Don't you know, Mars Jawge?"

"No," says I, "I don't."

"Well, den, Miss Sophia's run off! 'deed she has.  She run off in de night some time--nobody
don't know jis' when; run off to get married to dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know--leastways,
so dey 'spec.  De fambly foun' it out 'bout half an hour ago--maybe a little mo'--en' I TELL
you dey warn't no time los'.  Sich another hurryin' up guns en hosses YOU never see!  De women
folks has gone for to stir up de relations, en ole Mars Saul en de boys tuck dey guns en rode
up de river road for to try to ketch dat young man en kill him 'fo' he kin git acrost de river
wid Miss Sophia.  I reck'n dey's gwyne to be mighty rough times."

"Buck went off 'thout waking me up."

"Well, I reck'n he DID!  Dey warn't gwyne to mix you up in it.  Mars Buck he loaded up his
gun en 'lowed he's gwyne to fetch home a Shepherdson or bust. Well, dey'll be plenty un 'm
dah, I reck'n, en you bet you he'll fetch one ef he gits a chanst."

I took up the river road as hard as I could put.  By and by I begin to hear guns a good ways
off.  When I came in sight of the log store and the woodpile where the steamboats lands I worked
along under the trees and brush till I got to a good place, and then I clumb up into the forks
of a cottonwood that was out of reach, and watched.  There was a wood-rank four foot high a
little ways in front of the tree, and first I was going to hide behind that; but maybe it was
luckier I didn't.

There was four or five men cavorting around on their horses in the open place before the log
store, cussing and yelling, and trying to get at a couple of young chaps that was behind the
wood-rank alongside of the steamboat landing; but they couldn't come it.  Every time one of
them showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at.  The two boys was squatting
back to back behind the pile, so they could watch both ways.

By and by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling.  They started riding towards the store;
then up gets one of the boys, draws a steady bead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them
out of his saddle.  All the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started
to carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on the run.  They got half
way to the tree I was in before the men noticed. Then the men see them, and jumped on their
horses and took out after them.  They gained on the boys, but it didn't do no good, the boys
had too good a start; they got to the woodpile that was in front of my tree, and slipped in
behind it, and so they had the bulge on the men again. One of the boys was Buck, and the other
was a slim young chap about nineteen years old.

The men ripped around awhile, and then rode away.  As soon as they was out of sight I sung
out to Buck and told him.  He didn't know what to make of my voice coming out of the tree at
first.  He was awful surprised.  He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the men
come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment or other --wouldn't be gone long. 
I wished I was out of that tree, but I dasn't come down.  Buck begun to cry and rip, and 'lowed
that him and his cousin Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for this day yet.
He said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two or three of the enemy.  Said the
Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush.  Buck said his father and brothers ought to waited for
their relations--the Shepherdsons was too strong for them.  I asked him what was become of
young Harney and Miss Sophia.  He said they'd got across the river and was safe.  I was glad
of that; but the way Buck did take on because he didn't manage to kill Harney that day he shot
at him--I hain't ever heard anything like it.

All of a sudden, bang! bang! bang! goes three or four guns--the men had slipped around through
the woods and come in from behind without their horses!  The boys jumped for the river--both
of them hurt--and as they swum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them
and singing out, "Kill them, kill them!"  It made me so sick I most fell out of the tree. 
I ain't a-going to tell ALL that happened--it would make me sick again if I was to do that.
I wished I hadn't ever come ashore that night to see such things.  I ain't ever going to get
shut of them--lots of times I dream about them.

I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark, afraid to come down. Sometimes I heard guns
away off in the woods; and twice I seen little gangs of men gallop past the log store with
guns; so I reckoned the trouble was still a-going on.  I was mighty downhearted; so I made
up my mind I wouldn't ever go anear that house again, because I reckoned I was to blame, somehow.
I judged that that piece of paper meant that Miss Sophia was to meet Harney somewheres at half-past
two and run off; and I judged I ought to told her father about that paper and the curious way
she acted, and then maybe he would a locked her up, and this awful mess wouldn't ever happened.

When I got down out of the tree I crept along down the river bank a piece, and found the two
bodies laying in the edge of the water, and tugged at them till I got them ashore; then I covered
up their faces, and got away as quick as I could.  I cried a little when I was covering up
Buck's face, for he was mighty good to me.

It was just dark now.  I never went near the house, but struck through the woods and made for
the swamp.  Jim warn't on his island, so I tramped off in a hurry for the crick, and crowded
through the willows, red-hot to jump aboard and get out of that awful country.  The raft was
gone!  My souls, but I was scared!  I couldn't get my breath for most a minute. Then I raised
a yell.  A voice not twenty-five foot from me says:

"Good lan'! is dat you, honey?  Doan' make no noise."

It was Jim's voice--nothing ever sounded so good before.  I run along the bank a piece and
got aboard, and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me, he was so glad to see me.  He says:

"Laws bless you, chile, I 'uz right down sho' you's dead agin.  Jack's been heah; he say he
reck'n you's ben shot, kase you didn' come home no mo'; so I's jes' dis minute a startin' de
raf' down towards de mouf er de crick, so's to be all ready for to shove out en leave soon
as Jack comes agin en tells me for certain you IS dead.  Lawsy, I's mighty glad to git you
back again, honey."

I says:

"All right--that's mighty good; they won't find me, and they'll think I've been killed, and
floated down the river--there's something up there that 'll help them think so--so don't you
lose no time, Jim, but just shove off for the big water as fast as ever you can."

I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out in the middle of the Mississippi.
Then we hung up our signal lantern, and judged that we was free and safe once more.

CHAPTER XIX.

A little smoke couldn't be noticed now, so we would take some fish off of the lines and cook
up a hot breakfast.  And afterwards we would watch the lonesomeness of the river, and kind
of lazy along, and by and by lazy off to sleep.  Wake up by and by, and look to see what done
it, and maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far off towards the other side you
couldn't tell nothing about her only whether she was a stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for
about an hour there wouldn't be nothing to hear nor nothing to see--just solid lonesomeness.
Next you'd see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it chopping, because
they're most always doing it on a raft; you'd see the axe flash and come down --you don't hear
nothing; you see that axe go up again, and by the time it's above the man's head then you hear
the K'CHUNK!--it had took all that time to come over the water.  So we would put in the day,
lazying around, listening to the stillness.  Once there was a thick fog, and the rafts and
things that went by was beating tin pans so the steamboats wouldn't run over them.  A scow
or a raft went by so close we could hear them talking and cussing and laughing--heard them
plain; but we couldn't see no sign of them; it made you feel crawly; it was like spirits carrying
on that way in the air.  Jim said he believed it was spirits; but I says:

"No; spirits wouldn't say, 'Dern the dern fog.'"

Soon as it was night out we shoved; when we got her out to about the middle we let her alone,
and let her float wherever the current wanted her to; then we lit the pipes, and dangled our
legs in the water, and talked about all kinds of things--we was always naked, day and night,
whenever the mosquitoes would let us--the new clothes Buck's folks made for me was too good
to be comfortable, and besides I didn't go much on clothes, nohow.

Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest time. Yonder was the
banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe a spark--which was a candle in a cabin window;
and sometimes on the water you could see a spark or two--on a raft or a scow, you know; and
maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts. It's lovely to
live on a raft.  We had the sky up there, all speckled with stars, and we used to lay on our
backs and look up at them, and discuss about whether they was made or only just happened. 
Jim he allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it would have took too
long to MAKE so many.  Jim said the moon could a LAID them; well, that looked kind of reasonable,
so I didn't say nothing against it, because I've seen a frog lay most as many, so of course
it could be done. We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and see them streak down.  Jim
allowed they'd got spoiled and was hove out of the nest.

Once or twice of a night we would see a steamboat slipping along in the dark, and now and then
she would belch a whole world of sparks up out of her chimbleys, and they would rain down in
the river and look awful pretty; then she would turn a corner and her lights would wink out
and her powwow shut off and leave the river still again; and by and by her waves would get
to us, a long time after she was gone, and joggle the raft a bit, and after that you wouldn't
hear nothing for you couldn't tell how long, except maybe frogs or something.

After midnight the people on shore went to bed, and then for two or three hours the shores
was black--no more sparks in the cabin windows.  These sparks was our clock--the first one
that showed again meant morning was coming, so we hunted a place to hide and tie up right away.

One morning about daybreak I found a canoe and crossed over a chute to the main shore--it was
only two hundred yards--and paddled about a mile up a crick amongst the cypress woods, to see
if I couldn't get some berries. Just as I was passing a place where a kind of a cowpath crossed
the crick, here comes a couple of men tearing up the path as tight as they could foot it. 
I thought I was a goner, for whenever anybody was after anybody I judged it was ME--or maybe
Jim.  I was about to dig out from there in a hurry, but they was pretty close to me then, and
sung out and begged me to save their lives--said they hadn't been doing nothing, and was being
chased for it--said there was men and dogs a-coming.  They wanted to jump right in, but I says:

"Don't you do it.  I don't hear the dogs and horses yet; you've got time to crowd through the
brush and get up the crick a little ways; then you take to the water and wade down to me and
get in--that'll throw the dogs off the scent."

They done it, and soon as they was aboard I lit out for our towhead, and in about five or ten
minutes we heard the dogs and the men away off, shouting. We heard them come along towards
the crick, but couldn't see them; they seemed to stop and fool around a while; then, as we
got further and further away all the time, we couldn't hardly hear them at all; by the time
we had left a mile of woods behind us and struck the river, everything was quiet, and we paddled
over to the towhead and hid in the cottonwoods and was safe.

One of these fellows was about seventy or upwards, and had a bald head and very gray whiskers.
He had an old battered-up slouch hat on, and a greasy blue woollen shirt, and ragged old blue
jeans britches stuffed into his boot-tops, and home-knit galluses--no, he only had one.  He
had an old long-tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flung over his arm, and both
of them had big, fat, ratty-looking carpet-bags.

The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery.  After breakfast we all laid
off and talked, and the first thing that come out was that these chaps didn't know one another.

"What got you into trouble?" says the baldhead to t'other chap.

"Well, I'd been selling an article to take the tartar off the teeth--and it does take it off,
too, and generly the enamel along with it--but I stayed about one night longer than I ought
to, and was just in the act of sliding out when I ran across you on the trail this side of
town, and you told me they were coming, and begged me to help you to get off.  So I told you
I was expecting trouble myself, and would scatter out WITH you. That's the whole yarn--what's
yourn?

"Well, I'd ben a-running' a little temperance revival thar 'bout a week, and was the pet of
the women folks, big and little, for I was makin' it mighty warm for the rummies, I TELL you,
and takin' as much as five or six dollars a night--ten cents a head, children and niggers free--and
business a-growin' all the time, when somehow or another a little report got around last night
that I had a way of puttin' in my time with a private jug on the sly.  A nigger rousted me
out this mornin', and told me the people was getherin' on the quiet with their dogs and horses,
and they'd be along pretty soon and give me 'bout half an hour's start, and then run me down
if they could; and if they got me they'd tar and feather me and ride me on a rail, sure.  I
didn't wait for no breakfast--I warn't hungry."

"Old man," said the young one, "I reckon we might double-team it together; what do you think?"

"I ain't undisposed.  What's your line--mainly?"

"Jour printer by trade; do a little in patent medicines; theater-actor --tragedy, you know;
take a turn to mesmerism and phrenology when there's a chance; teach singing-geography school
for a change; sling a lecture sometimes--oh, I do lots of things--most anything that comes
handy, so it ain't work.  What's your lay?"

"I've done considerble in the doctoring way in my time.  Layin' on o' hands is my best holt--for
cancer and paralysis, and sich things; and I k'n tell a fortune pretty good when I've got somebody
along to find out the facts for me.  Preachin's my line, too, and workin' camp-meetin's, and
missionaryin' around."

Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sigh and says:

"Alas!"

"What 're you alassin' about?" says the bald-head.

"To think I should have lived to be leading such a life, and be degraded down into such company."
And he begun to wipe the corner of his eye with a rag.

"Dern your skin, ain't the company good enough for you?" says the baldhead, pretty pert and uppish.

"Yes, it IS good enough for me; it's as good as I deserve; for who fetched me so low when I
was so high?  I did myself.  I don't blame YOU, gentlemen--far from it; I don't blame anybody.
I deserve it all.  Let the cold world do its worst; one thing I know--there's a grave somewhere
for me. The world may go on just as it's always done, and take everything from me--loved ones,
property, everything; but it can't take that. Some day I'll lie down in it and forget it all,
and my poor broken heart will be at rest."  He went on a-wiping.

"Drot your pore broken heart," says the baldhead; "what are you heaving your pore broken heart
at US f'r?  WE hain't done nothing."

"No, I know you haven't.  I ain't blaming you, gentlemen.  I brought myself down--yes, I did
it myself.  It's right I should suffer--perfectly right--I don't make any moan."

"Brought you down from whar?  Whar was you brought down from?"

"Ah, you would not believe me; the world never believes--let it pass --'tis no matter.  The
secret of my birth--"

"The secret of your birth!  Do you mean to say--"

"Gentlemen," says the young man, very solemn, "I will reveal it to you, for I feel I may have
confidence in you.  By rights I am a duke!"

Jim's eyes bugged out when he heard that; and I reckon mine did, too. Then the baldhead says:
"No! you can't mean it?"

"Yes.  My great-grandfather, eldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater, fled to this country about
the end of the last century, to breathe the pure air of freedom; married here, and died, leaving
a son, his own father dying about the same time.  The second son of the late duke seized the
titles and estates--the infant real duke was ignored.  I am the lineal descendant of that infant--I
am the rightful Duke of Bridgewater; and here am I, forlorn, torn from my high estate, hunted
of men, despised by the cold world, ragged, worn, heart-broken, and degraded to the companionship
of felons on a raft!"

Jim pitied him ever so much, and so did I. We tried to comfort him, but he said it warn't much
use, he couldn't be much comforted; said if we was a mind to acknowledge him, that would do
him more good than most anything else; so we said we would, if he would tell us how.  He said
we ought to bow when we spoke to him, and say "Your Grace," or "My Lord," or "Your Lordship"--and
he wouldn't mind it if we called him plain "Bridgewater," which, he said, was a title anyway,
and not a name; and one of us ought to wait on him at dinner, and do any little thing for him
he wanted done.

Well, that was all easy, so we done it.  All through dinner Jim stood around and waited on
him, and says, "Will yo' Grace have some o' dis or some o' dat?" and so on, and a body could
see it was mighty pleasing to him.

But the old man got pretty silent by and by--didn't have much to say, and didn't look pretty
comfortable over all that petting that was going on around that duke.  He seemed to have something
on his mind.  So, along in the afternoon, he says:

"Looky here, Bilgewater," he says, "I'm nation sorry for you, but you ain't the only person
that's had troubles like that."

"No?"

"No you ain't.  You ain't the only person that's ben snaked down wrongfully out'n a high place."

"Alas!"

"No, you ain't the only person that's had a secret of his birth."  And, by jings, HE begins to cry.

"Hold!  What do you mean?"

"Bilgewater, kin I trust you?" says the old man, still sort of sobbing.

"To the bitter death!"  He took the old man by the hand and squeezed it, and says, "That secret
of your being:  speak!"

"Bilgewater, I am the late Dauphin!"

You bet you, Jim and me stared this time.  Then the duke says:

"You are what?"

"Yes, my friend, it is too true--your eyes is lookin' at this very moment on the pore disappeared
Dauphin, Looy the Seventeen, son of Looy the Sixteen and Marry Antonette."

"You!  At your age!  No!  You mean you're the late Charlemagne; you must be six or seven hundred
years old, at the very least."

"Trouble has done it, Bilgewater, trouble has done it; trouble has brung these gray hairs and
this premature balditude.  Yes, gentlemen, you see before you, in blue jeans and misery, the
wanderin', exiled, trampled-on, and sufferin' rightful King of France."

Well, he cried and took on so that me and Jim didn't know hardly what to do, we was so sorry--and
so glad and proud we'd got him with us, too.  So we set in, like we done before with the duke,
and tried to comfort HIM. But he said it warn't no use, nothing but to be dead and done with
it all could do him any good; though he said it often made him feel easier and better for a
while if people treated him according to his rights, and got down on one knee to speak to him,
and always called him "Your Majesty," and waited on him first at meals, and didn't set down
in his presence till he asked them. So Jim and me set to majestying him, and doing this and
that and t'other for him, and standing up till he told us we might set down.  This done him
heaps of good, and so he got cheerful and comfortable.  But the duke kind of soured on him,
and didn't look a bit satisfied with the way things was going; still, the king acted real friendly
towards him, and said the duke's great-grandfather and all the other Dukes of Bilgewater was
a good deal thought of by HIS father, and was allowed to come to the palace considerable; but
the duke stayed huffy a good while, till by and by the king says:

"Like as not we got to be together a blamed long time on this h-yer raft, Bilgewater, and so
what's the use o' your bein' sour?  It 'll only make things oncomfortable.  It ain't my fault
I warn't born a duke, it ain't your fault you warn't born a king--so what's the use to worry?
Make the best o' things the way you find 'em, says I--that's my motto.  This ain't no bad thing
that we've struck here--plenty grub and an easy life--come, give us your hand, duke, and le's
all be friends."

The duke done it, and Jim and me was pretty glad to see it.  It took away all the uncomfortableness
and we felt mighty good over it, because it would a been a miserable business to have any unfriendliness
on the raft; for what you want, above all things, on a raft, is for everybody to be satisfied,
and feel right and kind towards the others.

It didn't take me long to make up my mind that these liars warn't no kings nor dukes at all,
but just low-down humbugs and frauds.  But I never said nothing, never let on; kept it to myself;
it's the best way; then you don't have no quarrels, and don't get into no trouble.  If they
wanted us to call them kings and dukes, I hadn't no objections, 'long as it would keep peace
in the family; and it warn't no use to tell Jim, so I didn't tell him.  If I never learnt nothing
else out of pap, I learnt that the best way to get along with his kind of people is to let
them have their own way.

CHAPTER XX.

THEY asked us considerable many questions; wanted to know what we covered up the raft that
way for, and laid by in the daytime instead of running --was Jim a runaway nigger?  Says I:

"Goodness sakes! would a runaway nigger run SOUTH?"

No, they allowed he wouldn't.  I had to account for things some way, so I says:

"My folks was living in Pike County, in Missouri, where I was born, and they all died off but
me and pa and my brother Ike.  Pa, he 'lowed he'd break up and go down and live with Uncle
Ben, who's got a little one-horse place on the river, forty-four mile below Orleans.  Pa was
pretty poor, and had some debts; so when he'd squared up there warn't nothing left but sixteen
dollars and our nigger, Jim.  That warn't enough to take us fourteen hundred mile, deck passage
nor no other way.  Well, when the river rose pa had a streak of luck one day; he ketched this
piece of a raft; so we reckoned we'd go down to Orleans on it.  Pa's luck didn't hold out;
a steamboat run over the forrard corner of the raft one night, and we all went overboard and
dove under the wheel; Jim and me come up all right, but pa was drunk, and Ike was only four
years old, so they never come up no more.  Well, for the next day or two we had considerable
trouble, because people was always coming out in skiffs and trying to take Jim away from me,
saying they believed he was a runaway nigger.  We don't run daytimes no more now; nights they
don't bother us."

The duke says:

"Leave me alone to cipher out a way so we can run in the daytime if we want to.  I'll think
the thing over--I'll invent a plan that'll fix it. We'll let it alone for to-day, because of
course we don't want to go by that town yonder in daylight--it mightn't be healthy."

Towards night it begun to darken up and look like rain; the heat lightning was squirting around
low down in the sky, and the leaves was beginning to shiver--it was going to be pretty ugly,
it was easy to see that.  So the duke and the king went to overhauling our wigwam, to see what
the beds was like.  My bed was a straw tick better than Jim's, which was a corn-shuck tick;
there's always cobs around about in a shuck tick, and they poke into you and hurt; and when
you roll over the dry shucks sound like you was rolling over in a pile of dead leaves; it makes
such a rustling that you wake up.  Well, the duke allowed he would take my bed; but the king
allowed he wouldn't.  He says:

"I should a reckoned the difference in rank would a sejested to you that a corn-shuck bed warn't
just fitten for me to sleep on.  Your Grace 'll take the shuck bed yourself."

Jim and me was in a sweat again for a minute, being afraid there was going to be some more
trouble amongst them; so we was pretty glad when the duke says:

"'Tis my fate to be always ground into the mire under the iron heel of oppression.  Misfortune
has broken my once haughty spirit; I yield, I submit; 'tis my fate.  I am alone in the world--let
me suffer; can bear it."

