]]

Thus, the long wished for History of the Four Last Years of the Queen's Reign is at length
brought to light, in spite of all attempts to suppress it!

As this publication is not made under the sanction of the name, or names, which the author
and the world had a right to expect; it is fit some account of the works appearing in this
manner should be here given.

Long before the Dean's apparent decline, some of his intimate friends, with concern, foresaw
the impending fate of his fortune and his works. To this it is owing, that these sheets, which
the world now despaired of ever seeing, are rescued from obscurity, perhaps from destruction.

For this, the public is indebted to a gentleman, now in Ireland, of the greatest probity and
worth, with whom the Dean long lived in perfect intimacy. To this gentleman's hands the Dean
entrusted a copy of his History, desiring him to peruse and give his judgment of it, with the
last corrections and amendments the author had given it, in his own hand.

His friend read, admired, and approved. And from a dread of so valuable and so interesting
a work's being by any accident lost or effaced, as was probable by its not being intended to
be published in the author's lifetime; he resolved to keep this copy, till the author should
press him for it; but with a determined purpose, it should never see the light, while there
was any hopes of the author's own copy being published, or even preserved.

This resolution he inviolably kept, till he and the world had full assurance, that the Dean's
executors, or those into whose hands the original copy fell, were so far from intending to
publish it, that it was actually suppressed, perhaps destroyed.

Then, he thought himself not only at liberty, but judged it his duty to his departed friend,
and to the public, to let this copy, which he had now kept many years most secretly, see the light.

Thus it has at length fallen into the hands of a person, who publishes it for the satisfaction
of the public, abstracted from all private regards; which are never to be permitted to come
in competition with the common good.

Every judicious eye will see, that the author of these sheets wrote with strong passions, but
with stronger prepossessions and prejudices in favour of a party. These, it may be imagined,
the editor, in some measure, may have adopted, and published this work as a kind of support
of that party, or some surviving remnant thereof.

It is but just to undeceive the reader, and inform him from what kind of hand he has received
this work. A man may regard a good piece of painting, while he despises the subject; if the
subject be ever so despicable, the masterly strokes of the painter may demand our admiration,
while he, in other respects, is entitled to no portion of our regard.

In poetry, we carry our admiration still farther; and like the poet, while we actually contemn
the man. Historians share the like fate; hence some, who have no regard to propriety or truth,
are yet admired for diction, style, manner, and the like.

The editor considers this work in another light. He long knew the author, and was no stranger
to his politics, connections, tendencies, passions, and the whole economy of his life. He has
long been hardily singular in condemning this great man's conduct amid the admiring multitude,
nor ever could have thought of making an interest in a man, whose principles and manners he
could by no rule of reason or honour approve, however he might have admired his parts and wit.

Such was judged the disposition of the man, whose history of the most interesting period of
time in the annals of Britain are now, herein, offered to the reader. He may well ask from
what motives? The answer is easily, simply given.

The causes assigned for delaying the publication of this history were principally these:[2]
That the manuscript fell into the hands of men, who, whatever they might have been by the generality
deemed, were by the Dean believed to be of his party, though they did not, after his death,
judge it prudent to avow his principles, more than to deny them in his lifetime. These men,
having got their beavers, tobacco-boxes, and other trifling remembrances of former friendship,
by the Dean's will, did not choose publicly to avow principles, that had marred their friend's
promotion, and might probably put a stop to theirs. Therefore, they gave the inquisitive world
to understand, that there was something too strong against many great men, as well as the succeeding
system of public affairs in general, in the Dean's History of the Four Last Years of the Queen's
Reign, to admit of a publication, in our times; and, with this poor insinuation, excused themselves,
and satisfied the weakly well-affected, in suppressing the manifestation of displeasing truths,
of however great importance to society.

[Footnote 2: The causes for the delay in the publication of the "History" are given at length
by the present editor in the Introduction. [T.S.]]

This manuscript has now fallen into the hands of a man, who never could associate with, or
even approve, any of the parties or factions, that have differently distracted, it might be
said disgraced, these kingdoms; because he has as yet known none, whose motives or rules of
action were truth and the public good alone; of one, who judges, that perjured magistrates
of all denominations, and their most exalted minions, may be exposed, deprived, or cut off,
by the fundamental laws of his country; and who, upon these principles, from his heart approves
and glories in the virtues of his predecessors, who revived the true spirit of the British
polity, in laying aside a priest-ridden, an hen-pecked, tyrannical tool, who had overturned
the political constitution of his country, and in reinstituting the dissolved body politic,
by a revolution supported by the laws of nature and the realm, as the only means of preserving
the natural and legal, the civil and religious liberties of the members of the commonwealth.

Truth, in this man's estimation, can hurt no good cause. And falsehood and fraud, in religion
and politics, are ever to be detected, to be exploded.

Insinuations, that this History contained something injurious to the present establishment,
and therefore necessary to be suppressed, serve better the purposes of mistaken or insidious
malcontents than the real publication can. And, if any thing were by this, or any other, History
to be shown essentially erroneous in our politics, who, that calls himself a Briton, can be
deemed such an impious slave, as to conceal the destructive evil? The editor of this work disdains
and abhors the servile thought, and wishes to live no longer than he dares to think, speak,
write, and, in all things, to act worthy of a Briton.

From this regard to truth and to his country, the editor of this History was glad of an opportunity
of rescuing such a writing from those who meant to suppress it. The common cause, in his estimation,
required and demanded it should be done; and the sooner it is published, he judged, the better:
for, if the conduct of the Queen and her ministers does not deserve the obloquy that has been
long industriously cast upon it, what is more just than to vindicate it? What more reasonable
than that this should be done, while living witnesses may yet be called, to prove or disprove
the several allegations and assertions; since, in a few years more, such witnesses may be as
much wanting as to prevent a canonization, which is therefore prudently procrastinated for
above an age? Let us then coolly hear what is to be said on this side the question, and judge
like Britons.

The editor would not be thought to justify the author of this History, in all points, or even
to attempt to acquit him of unbecoming prejudices and partiality. Without being deeply versed
in history or politics, he can see his author, in many instances, blinded with passions that
disgrace the historian; and blending, with phrases worthy of a Caesar or a Cicero, expressions
not to be justified by truth, reason, or common sense, yet think him a most powerful orator,
and a great historian.

No unprejudiced person will blame the Dean for doing all that is consistent with truth and
decency to vindicate the government of the Queen, and to exculpate the conduct of her ministers
and her last general; all good men would rejoice at such a vindication. But, if he meant no
more than this, his work would ill deserve the title of an History. That he generally tells
truths, and founds his most material assertions upon fact, will, I think be found very evident.
But there is room to suspect, that, while he tells no more than the truth, he does not tell
the whole truth. However, he makes it very clear, that the Queen's allies, especially our worthy
friends the Dutch, were much to blame for the now generally condemned conduct of the Queen,
with regard to the prosecution of the war and the bringing about the peace.

The authors drawings of characters are confessedly partial: for he tells us openly, he means
not to give characters entire, but such parts of each man's particular passions, acquirements,
and habits, as he was most likely to transfer into his political schemes. What writing, what
sentence, what character, can stand this torture?--What extreme perversion may not, let me
say, does not, this produce? Yet thus does he choose to treat all men, that were not favourers
of the latest measures of the Queen, when the best that has been said for her, shows no more
than that she was blindfolded and held in leading-strings by her ministers.

He does not spare a man, confessed by all the world to have discharged the duties of his function
like a soldier, like an hero. But charges Prince Eugene with raising and keeping up a most
horrible mob, with intent to assassinate Harley. For all which odious charges he offers not
one individual point of proof.

He is not content with laying open again the many faults already publicly proved upon the late
Duke of Marlborough, but insinuates a new crime, by seeming to attempt to acquit him of aspiring
at the throne. But this is done in a manner peculiar to this author.

On the other hand, he extols the ministers, and minions of the Queen, in the highest terms;
and while he robs their antagonists of every good quality, generally gives those wisdom and
every virtue that can adorn human nature.

He is not ashamed to attempt to justify, what all thinking good men must condemn, the Queen's
making twelve peers at once, to serve a particular turn.

All these may be ascribed to the strength of his passions, and to the prejudices, early imbibed,
in favour of his indulgent royal mistress and her favourites and servants.[3] The judicious
will look through the elegant clothing, and dispassionately consider these as mere human errors,
to which no well-informed mind can assent. The editor thinks himself bound to protest against them.

[Footnote 3: That Swift should have a strong partiality to Harley and St. John, by whom he
was respected and trusted to a most uncommon degree, is natural and obvious; but upon what
ground Queen Anne, who disliked his person, and obstructed his preferment, is here termed his
indulgent mistress, the author of this preface ought to have condescended to explain. [S.]]

He makes a few lapses on the other side, without being as clear as an impartial historian would
choose to appear. He more than hints at the Queen's displeasure at its being moved in Parliament,
that the Prince Elector should be invited to reside in England, to whose crown he was by law
declared presumptive heir, but is always open upon the Queen's insisting on the Pretender's
being sent out of France.--It is easy to see how incompatible these things appear. Nothing
could tend more to secure the Hanover succession, and to enlarge its benefits to Britain, than
the bringing over the successor, who should, in every country, be well instructed in the language,
customs, manners, religion, and laws of his future subjects, before he comes to hold the reins
of government. And our author does not take the proper care to inform us how far the French
thought fit to comply with banishing the Pretender their dominions, since many still live in
doubt, that if he was sent out of France, he was sent into England.

But there is one expression of our author too perverse, too grossly abused, to admit of any
apology, of any palliation. It is not to be supposed, that he was ignorant of any word in the
English language. And least of all can he be supposed ignorant of the meaning of a word, which,
had it been ever so doubtful before, had a certain meaning impressed upon it by the authority
of Parliament, of which no sensible subject can be ignorant.

Notwithstanding this, where our author speaks of the late King James, he calls him the abdicated
King, and gives the same epithet even to his family. Though this weak, ill-advised, and ill-fated
prince, in every sense of the word, with Romans and English, and to all intents and purposes,
abdicated, yet can he, in no sense, be called abdicated; unless the people's asserting their
rights, and defending themselves against a king, who broke his compact with his subjects, and
overturned their government, can be called abdication in them; which no man in his senses can
be hardy enough to support upon any principle of reason or the laws of England. Let the reader
judge which this is most likely to be, error or design.

These exceptions the editor thought himself bound to make to some parts of this work, to keep
clear of the disagreeable imputations of being of a party, of whatsoever denomination, in opposition
to truth and the rights and liberties of the subject.

These laid aside, the work will be found to have many beauties, many excellencies. Some have
of late affected to depreciate this History, from an insinuation, made only since the author's
death, to wit, that he was never admitted into the secrets of the administration, but made
to believe he was a confident, only to engage him in the list of the ministerial writers of
that reign.

The falsehood of this will readily appear upon perusal of the work. This shows he knew the
most secret springs of every movement in the whole complicated machine. That he states facts,
too well known to be contested, in elegant simplicity, and reasons upon them with the talents
of the greatest historian. And thus makes an History, composed rather of negotiations than
actions, most entertaining, affecting, and interesting, instead of being, as might be expected,
heavy, dull, and disagreeable.

It is now fit to apologize for some errors, which the judicious must discover upon a perusal
of this work. It is for this, among other reasons, much to be lamented, that this History was
not published under the author's own inspection. It is next to impossible to copy or print
any work without faults, and most so where the author's eye is wanting.

It is not to be imagined, that even our author, however accurate, however great, was yet strictly
and perfectly correct in his writings. Yet, where some seeming inaccuracies in style or expression
have been discovered, the deference due to the author made any alteration too presumptuous
a task for the editor. These are, therefore, left to the amending hand of every sensible and
polite reader; while the editor hopes it will suffice, that he should point out some of those
errors, which are to be ascribed either to transcribers or the press, and which may be rectified
in the manner following, in reading the work.[4]

[Footnote 4: Here follows list of errata. (These errors have been corrected in the present
edition.)]

And thus; with these and perhaps some few such like corrections, it is hoped this work will
be found completely correct.

THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE.[1]

[Footnote 1: The time when it was written does not appear; but it was probably many years after
the Queen's death. [N.] First published in 1765. [W.S.J.]]

Having written the following History at Windsor, in the happy reign of Her Majesty Queen Anne,
of ever glorious, blessed, and immortal memory; I resolved to publish it, for the satisfaction
of my fellow-subjects, in the year 1713; but, being under a necessity of going to Ireland,
to take possession of the deanery of St. Patrick's, Dublin, I left the original with the ministers;
and having stayed in that kingdom not above a fortnight, I found, at my return, that my Lord
Treasurer Oxford, and the secretary my Lord Bolingbroke, who were then unhappily upon very
ill terms with each other, could not agree upon publishing it, without some alterations which
I would not submit to. Whereupon I kept it by me until Her Majesty's death, which happened
about a year after.

I have ever since preserved the original very safely; too well knowing what a turn the world
would take upon the German family's succeeding to the crown; which indeed was their undoubted
right, having been established solemnly by the act of an undisputed Parliament, brought into
the House of Commons by Mr. Harley, who was then Speaker.

But, as I have said in another discourse,[2] it was very well understood, some years before
Her Majesty's death, how the new King would act, immediately upon his entrance, in the choice
of those (and those alone) whom he resolved to trust; and consequently what reports would industriously
be raised, as well as spread, to expose the proceedings of Her Majesty herself, as well as
of her servants; who have been ever since blasted as enemies to the present establishment,
by the most ignorant and malicious among mankind.

[Footnote 2: "Memoirs relating to the Change in the Queen's Ministry." See vol. v. of present
edition. [T.S.]]

Therefore, as it was my lot to have been daily conversant with the persons then in power; never
absent in times of business or conversation, until a few weeks before Her Majesty's death;
and a witness of almost every step they made in the course of their administration; I must
have been very unfortunate not to be better informed than those miserable pamphleteers, or
their patrons, could pretend to. At the same time, I freely confess, it appeared necessary,
as well as natural, upon such a mighty change as the death of a sovereign, that those who were
to be in power upon the succession, and resolved to act in every part by a direct contrary
system of politics, should load their predecessors with as much infamy as the most inveterate
malice and envy could suggest, or the most stupid ignorance and credulity in their underlings
could swallow.

Therefore, as I pretend to write with the utmost impartiality, the following History of the
Four Last Years of her Majesty's Reign, in order to undeceive prejudiced persons at present,
as well as posterity; I am persuaded in my own mind, as likewise by the advice of my oldest
and wisest friends, that I am doing my duty to God and man, by endeavouring to set future ages
right in their judgment of that happy reign; and, as a faithful historian, I cannot suffer
falsehoods to run on any longer, not only against all appearance of truth as well as probability,
but even against those happy events, which owe their success to the very measures then fixed
in the general peace.

The materials for this History, besides what I have already mentioned, I mean the confidence
reposed in me for those four years, by the chief persons in power, were extracted out of many
hundred letters written by our ambassadors abroad, and from the answers as well as instructions
sent them by our secretaries of state, or by the first minister the Earl of Oxford. The former
were all originals, and the latter copies entered into books in the secretaries' office, out
of both which I collected all that I thought convenient; not to mention several Memorials given
me by the ministers at home. Further, I was a constant witness and observer of all that passed;
and entered every particular of any consequence upon paper.

I was so far from having any obligation to the crown, that, on the contrary, Her Majesty issued
a proclamation, offering three hundred pounds to any person who would discover the author of
a certain short treatise,[3] which the Queen well knew to have been written by me. I never
received one shilling from the minister, or any other present, except that of a few books;
nor did I want their assistance to support me. I very often dined indeed with the treasurer
and secretary; but, in those days, that was not reckoned a bribe, whatever it may have been
at any time since. I absolutely refused to be chaplain to the Lord Treasurer; because I thought
it would ill become me to be in a state of dependence.

[Footnote 3: "The Public Spirit of the Whigs." [D.S.]]

I say this, to shew that I had no other bias than my own opinion of persons and affairs. I
preserved several of the opposite party in their employments, who were persons of wit and learning,
particularly Mr. Addison and Mr. Congreve, neither of whom were ever in any danger from the
treasurer, who much esteemed them both; and, by his lordship's commands, I brought the latter
to dine with him. Mr. Steele might have been safe enough, if his continually repeated indiscretions,
and a zeal mingled with scurrilities, had not forfeited all title to lenity.[4]

[Footnote 4: A full account of the severance of the friendly relations between Swift and Steele
is given in the fifth volume of the present edition (see pp. 276-282). [T.S.]]

I know very well the numberless prejudices of weak and deceived people, as well as the malice
of those, who, to serve their own interest or ambition, have cast off all religion, morality,
justice, and common decency. However, although perhaps I may not be believed in the present
age, yet I hope to be so in the next, by all who will bear any regard for the honour and liberty
of England, if either of these shall then subsist or not.

I have no interest or inclination to palliate the mistakes, or omissions, or want of steadiness,
or unhappy misunderstandings, among a few of those who then presided in affairs.

Nothing is more common than the virulence of superficial and ill informed writers, against
the conduct of those who are now called prime ministers: And, since factions appear at present
to be at a greater height than in any former times, although perhaps not so equally poised;
it may probably concern those who are now in their height, if they have any regard for their
own memories in future ages, to be less warm against others, who humbly differ from them in
some state opinions. Old persons remember, at least by tradition, the horrible prejudices that
prevailed against the first Earl of Clarendon, whose character, as it now stands, might be
a pattern for all ministers; although even Bishop Burnet of Sarum, whose principles, veracity,
and manner of writing, are so little esteemed upon many accounts, hath been at the pains to
vindicate him.

Upon that irreparable breach between the treasurer and secretary Bolingbroke, after my utmost
endeavours, for above two years, to reconcile them, I retired to a friend in Berkshire, where
I stayed until Her Majesty's death;[5] and then immediately returned to my station in Dublin,
where I continued about twelve years without once seeing England. I there often reviewed the
following Memoirs; neither changing nor adding, further than by correcting the style: And,
if I have been guilty of any mistakes, they must be of small moment; for it was hardly possible
I could be wrong informed, with all the advantages I have already mentioned.

[Footnote 5: See vol. v. of the present edition--the notes on pp. 390, 393-394, 420, 421, and
426. [T.S.]]

I shall not be very uneasy under the obloquy that may, perhaps, be cast upon me by the violent
leaders and followers of the present prevailing party. And yet I cannot find the least inconsistence
with conscience or honour, upon the death of so excellent a princess as her late Majesty, for
a wise and good man to submit, with a true and loyal heart, to her lawful Protestant successor;
whose hereditary title was confirmed by the Queen and both Houses of Parliament, with the greatest
unanimity, after it had been made an article in the treaty, that every prince in our alliance
should be a guarantee of that succession. Nay, I will venture to go one step farther; that,
if the negotiators of that peace had been chosen out of the most professed zealots for the
interests of the Hanover family, they could not have bound up the French king, or the Hollanders,
more strictly than the Queen's plenipotentiaries did, in confirming the present succession;
which was in them so much a greater mark of virtue and loyalty, because they perfectly well
knew, that they should never receive the least mark of favour, when the succession had taken place.

  THE HISTORY OF THE FOUR LAST
  YEARS OF THE QUEEN.

BOOK I.

I propose give the public an account of the most important affairs at home, during the last
session of Parliament, as well as of our negotiations of peace abroad, not only during that
period, but some time before and since. I shall relate the chief matters transacted by both
Houses in that session, and discover the designs carried on by the heads of a discontented
party,[1] not only against the ministry, but, in some manner, against the crown itself. I likewise
shall state the debts of the nation, show by what mismanagement, and to serve what purposes,
they were at first contracted, by what negligence or corruption they have so prodigiously grown,
and what methods have since been taken to provide not only for their payment, but to prevent
the like mischief for the time to come. Although, in an age like ours, I can expect very few
impartial readers, yet I shall strictly follow truth, or what reasonably appeared to me to
be such, after the most impartial inquiries I could make, and the best opportunities of being
informed, by those who were the principal actors or advisers.[2]

[Footnote 1: P. Fitzgerald says "faction." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 2: Swift's informants were, of course, Harley and Bolingbroke, though the latter
stated that Swift was given only such information as served the ministry's purpose in the work
they had given him for "The Examiner" and the party pamphlets written in their defence. It
is, however, quite interesting in this connection, to see how closely Swift's narrative follows
the published political correspondence of Bolingbroke. [T.S.]]

Neither shall I mingle panegyric or satire with an history intended to inform posterity, as
well as to instruct those of the present age, who may be ignorant or misled; since facts, truly
related, are the best applauses, or most lasting reproaches.

Discourses upon subjects relating to the public usually seem to be calculated for London only,
and some few miles about it; while the authors suppose their readers to be informed of several
particulars, to which those that live remote are, for the generality, utter strangers. Most
people, who frequent this town, acquire a sort of smattering (such as it is), which qualifies
them for reading a pamphlet, and finding out what is meant by innuendoes, or hints at facts
or persons, and initial letters of names, wherein gentlemen at a distance, although perhaps
of much better understandings, are wholly in the dark. Wherefore, that these Memoirs may be
rendered more generally intelligible and useful, it will be convenient to give the reader a
short view of the state and disposition of affairs, when the last session of Parliament began.
And because the party-leaders, who had lost their power and places, were, upon that juncture,
employing all their engines, in an attempt to re-establish themselves, I shall venture one
step further, and represent so much of their characters as may be supposed to have influenced
their politics.

On the seventh day of December, one thousand seven hundred and eleven, began the second session
of Parliament. It was now above a year since the Queen had thought fit to put the great offices
of state, and of her own household, into other hands; however, three of the discontented lords
were still in possession of their places, for the Duke of Marlborough continued general, the
Duke of Somerset master of the horse, and the Earl of Cholmondeley treasurer of Her Majesty's
household;[3] likewise great numbers of the same party[4] still kept employments of value and
importance, which had not been usual of late years upon any changes of ministry. The Queen,
who judged the temper of her people by this House of Commons, which a landed interest had freely
chosen, found them very desirous of a secure and honourable peace, and disposed[5] to leave
the management of it to her own wisdom, and that of her own council. She had, therefore, several
months before the session began, sent to inform the States General of some overtures which
had been made her by the enemy; and, during that summer, Her Majesty took several farther steps
in that great affair, until at length, after many difficulties, a congress at Utrecht, for
a general peace, was agreed upon, the whole proceedings of which previous negotiations, between
our court and that of France, I shall, in its proper place, very particularly relate.

[Footnote 3: See note on p. 385 of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: P. Fitzgerald says "the ejected party." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 5: P. Fitzgerald adds "(as it was their duty)." [W.S.J.]]

The nation was already upon a better foot, with respect to its debts; for the Earl of Oxford,
lord treasurer, had, in the preceeding session, proposed and effected ways and means, in the
House of Commons (where he was then a member), for providing a parliamentary fund, to clear
the heavy arrear of ten millions (whereof the greatest part lay upon the navy), without any
new burthen (at least after a very few years) to the kingdom; and, at the same time, he took
care to prevent farther incumbrances upon that article, by finding ready money for naval provisions,
which has saved the public somewhat more than cent. per cent. in that mighty branch of our
expenses.

The clergy were altogether in the interests and the measures of the present ministry, which
had appeared so boldly in their defence, during a prosecution against one of their members,[6]
where the whole sacred order was understood to be concerned. The zeal shown for that most religious
bill, to settle a fund for building fifty new churches in and about the city of London,[7]
was a fresh obligation; and they were farther highly gratified, by Her Majesty's choosing one
of their body to be a great officer of state.[8]

[Footnote 6: Dr. Sacheverell. [N.]]

[Footnote 7: A suggestion originally made by Swift himself. See vol. iii., p. 45, of present
edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: Dr. Robinson, Lord Bishop of Bristol, to be Lord Privy Seal. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]
Dr. Robinson, who was appointed Bishop of London in 1713, died in 1723. [W.S.J.]]

By this time likewise, all disputes about these principles, which used originally to divide
Whig and Tory, were wholly dropped; and those fantastical words ought in justice to have been
so too, provided we could have found out more convenient names, whereby to distinguish lovers
of peace from lovers of war;[9] or those who would leave Her Majesty some degree of freedom
in the choice of her ministers, from others, who could not be satisfied with her choosing any,
except such as she was most averse from. But, where a nation is once divided, interest and
animosity will keep open the breach, without being supported by any other principles; or, at
worst, a body of discontented people can change, and take up what principles they please.

[Footnote 9: Swift had already, in his "Some Free Thoughts upon the Present State of Affairs,"
attempted to re-define the distinctions of Whig and Tory. The latter, he urged, was of that
party which pronounced for the principles of loyalty to the Church and the preservation of
the Protestant succession in the House of Hanover. Swift felt that the majority of the people
at large were strong for these principles, and the party that would openly accept them as its
"platform" would, he argued, be the party that would obtain the people's support. Had Bollngbroke
not delayed the publication of this tract, it might have had great influence in keeping the
Tories in power. See vol. v. of present edition, pp. 380, 393. [T.S.]]

As to the disposition of the opposite party, we all remember, that the removal of the last
ministry was brought about by several degrees; through which means it happened, that they and
their friends were hardly recovered out of one astonishment, before they fell into another.
This scene lasted for some months, and was followed by a period of rage and despair, natural
to those who reflect that they have lost a secure game, by their own rashness, folly, and want
of common management, when, at the same time, they knew by experience, that a watchful and
dexterous adversary lay ready to take the advantage. However, some time before the session,
the heads of that party began to recollect themselves, and rally their forces, like an enemy
who hath been beaten out of the field, but finds he is not pursued; for although the chiefs
of this faction were thought to have but little esteem or friendship for each other, yet they
perfectly agreed in one general end, of distressing, by all possible methods, the new administration,
wherein if they could succeed so far as to put the Queen under any great necessity, another
Parliament must be called, and perhaps the power[10] devolve again into their own hands.

[Footnote 10: P. Fitzgerald says "and the power naturally." [W.S.J.]]

The issue and event of that grand confederacy appearing in both Houses, although under a different
form, upon the very first day the Parliament met, I cannot better begin the relation of affairs,
commencing from that period, than by a thorough detection of the whole intrigue, carried on
with the greatest privacy and application, which must be acknowledged to have for several days
disconcerted some of the ministry, as well as dispirited their friends; and the consequences
thereof, which have in reality been so very pernicious to the kingdom.

But because the principal leaders in this design are the same persons to whom, since the loss
of their power, all the opposition has been owing which the court received, either in treaties
abroad, or the administration at home; it may not be improper to describe those qualities in
each of them, which few of their admirers will deny, and which appear chiefly to have influenced
them in acting their several parts upon the public stage. For I do not intend to draw their
characters entire, which would be tedious, and little to the purpose, but shall only single
out those passions, acquirements, and habits, which the owners were most likely to transfer
into their political schemes, and which were most subservient to the designs they seemed to
have in view.

The Lord Somers[11] may very deservedly be reputed the head and oracle of that party; he hath
raised himself, by the concurrence of many circumstances, to the greatest employments of the
state, without the least support from birth or fortune; he hath constantly, and with great
steadiness, cultivated those principles under which he grew. That accident which first produced
him into the world, of pleading for the bishops whom King James had sent to the Tower, might
have proved a piece of merit, as honourable as it was fortunate, but the old republican spirit,
which the Revolution had restored, began to teach other lessons--That since we had accepted
a new King, from a Calvinistical commonwealth, we must also admit new maxims in religion and
government. But, since the nobility and gentry would probably adhere to the established Church,
and to the rights of monarchy, as delivered down from their ancestors, it was the practice
of those politicians to introduce such men as were perfectly indifferent to any or no religion,
and who were not likely to inherit much loyalty from those to whom they owed their birth. Of
this number was the person I am now describing. I have hardly known any man, with talents more
proper to acquire and preserve the favour of a prince; never offending in word or gesture;
in the highest degree courteous and complaisant; wherein he set an excellent example to his
colleagues, which they did not think fit to follow. But this extreme civility is universal
and undistinguished, and in private conversation, where he observeth it as inviolably as if
he were in the greatest assembly, it is sometimes censured as formal. Two reasons are assigned
for this behaviour: first, from the consciousness of his humble original,[12] he keepeth all
familiarity at the utmost distance, which otherwise might be apt to intrude; the second, that
being sensible how subject he is to violent passions, he avoideth all incitements to them,
by teaching those he converses with, from his own example, to keep a great way within the bounds
of decency and respect. And it is indeed true, that no man is more apt to take fire, upon the
least appearance of provocation; which temper he strives to subdue, with the utmost violence
upon himself: so that his breast has been seen to heave, and his eyes to sparkle with rage,
in those very moments when his words, and the cadence of his voice, were in the humblest and
softest manner: perhaps that force upon his nature may cause that insatiable love of revenge,
which his detractors lay to his charge, who consequently reckon dissimulation among his chief
perfections. Avarice he hath none; and his ambition is gratified, by being the uncontested
head of his party. With an excellent understanding, adorned by all the polite parts of learning,
he hath very little taste for conversation, to which he prefers the pleasure of reading and
thinking; and in the intervals of his time amuseth himself with an illiterate chaplain, an
humble companion, or a favourite servant.

[Footnote 11: See note on p. 29 of vol. i. of present edition. Swift's "Dedication" of "A Tale
of a Tub" to Somers strikes a somewhat different note from that of this "character." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: His father, John Somers, was an attorney at law in the town of Worcester. [S.]]

These are some few distinguishing marks in the character of that person, who now presideth
over the discontented party, although he be not answerable for all their mistakes; and if his
precepts had been more strictly followed, perhaps their power would not have been so easily
shaken. I have been assured, and heard him profess, that he was against engaging in that foolish
prosecution of Dr. Sacheverell, as what he foresaw was likely to end in their ruin; that he
blamed the rough demeanour of some persons to the Queen, as a great failure in prudence; and
that, when it appeared Her Majesty was firmly resolved upon a treaty of peace, he advised his
friends not to oppose it in its progress, but find fault with it after it was made; which would
be a copy of the like usage themselves had met with, after the treaty of Ryswick;[13] and the
safest, as well as the most probable, way of disgracing the promoters and advisers. I have
been the larger in representing to the reader some idea of this extraordinary genius, because,
whatever attempt hath hitherto been made, with any appearance of conduct, or probability of
success, to restore the dominion of that party,[14] was infallibly contrived by him; and I
prophesy the same for the future, as long as his age and infirmities will leave him capable
of business.

[Footnote 13: See note in vol. v., p. 67, of present edition, [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: P. Fitzgerald says "faction." Those maligners who deny him personal valour, seem
not to consider that this accusation is charged at a venture; since the person of a wise general
is too seldom exposed, to form any judgment in the matter: and that fear, which is said to
have sometimes[17] disconcerted him before an action, might probably be more for his army than
for himself.[18] He was bred in the height of what is called the Tory principle; and continued
with a strong bias that way, till the other party had bid higher for him than his friends could
afford to give. His want of literature is in some sort supplied by a good understanding, a
degree of natural elocution, and that knowledge of the world which is learned in armies and
courts. We are not to take the height of his ambition from his soliciting to be general for
life:[19] I am persuaded his chief motive was the pay and perquisites, by continuing the war;
and that he had then no intentions of settling the crown in his family, his only son having
been dead some years before.[20] He is noted to be master of great temper, able to govern or
very well to disguise his passions, which are all melted down, or extinguished, in his love
of wealth. That liberality which nature has denied him, with respect of money, he makes up
by a great profusion of promises: but this perfection, so necessary in courts, is not very
successful in camps among soldiers, who are not refined enough to understand or to relish it.[21]

[Footnote 15: For further remarks on Marlborough, see Swift's "Conduct of the Allies," "The
Learned Comment on Dr. Hare's Sermon," and "The Examiner." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: P. Fitzgerald adds "altogether." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 17: P. Fitzgerald says "usually." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 18: This reflection on Marlborough's personal courage was one of the points noted
by Erasmus Lewis in his letter to Swift of April 8th, 1738. The friends who had met to read
and pass opinion on this "History" decided that in any printed form of this work it would be
advisable not to call in question the courage of Marlborough. See Sir W. Scott's edition, vol.
xix., pp. 133-136. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 19: See "Memoirs Relating to that Change," etc., in vol. v., pp. 372-373 of present
edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 20: See "The Conduct of the Allies," vol. v., p. 103, and also "A Learned Comment,"
etc., p. 179 of same volume of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 21: See the Letter to Marcus Crassus in "The Examiner," No. 28 in vol. ix. of present
edition. [T.S.]]

His wife, the Duchess, may justly challenge her place in this list. It is to her the Duke is
chiefly indebted for his greatness and his fall; for above twenty years she possessed, without
a rival, the favours of the most indulgent mistress in the world, nor ever missed one single
opportunity that fell in her way of improving it to her own advantage.[22] She hath preserved
a tolerable court reputation, with respect to love and gallantry;[23] but three Furies reigned
in her breast, the most mortal enemies of all softer passions, which were sordid Avarice, disdainful
Pride, and ungovernable Rage; by the last of these often breaking out in sallies of the most
unpardonable sort, she had long alienated her sovereign's mind, before it appeared to the world.[24]
This lady is not without some degree of wit, and hath in her time affected the character of
it, by the usual method of arguing against religion, and proving the doctrines of Christianity
to be impossible and absurd. Imagine what such a spirit, irritated by the loss of power, favour,
and employment, is capable of acting or attempting; and then I have said enough.

[Footnote 22: See the "Account of the Conduct of the Duchess of Marlborough, in a Letter from
Herself, to Lord ----," 8vo, 1742, passim. [N.] See also "Memoirs Relating to that Change,"
etc., in vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 23: P. Fitzgerald adds "(to which, however, she hath been thought not entirely a
stranger)." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 24: See note in vol. v., p. 368, of present edition. [T.S.]]

The next in order to be mentioned is the Earl of Godolphin.[25] It is said, he was originally
intended for a trade, before his friends preferred him to be a page at court; which some have
very unjustly objected as a reproach. He hath risen gradually in four reigns, and was much
more constant to his second master King James than some others, who had received much greater
obligations; for he attended the abdicated King to the sea-side, and kept constant correspondence
with him till the day of his death. He always professed a sort of passion for the Queen at
St. Germain's; and his letters were to her in the style of what the French call double entendre.
In a mixture of love and respect, he used frequently to send her from hence little presents
of those things which are agreeable to ladies, for which he always asked King William's leave,
as if without her privity; because, if she had known that circumstance, it was to be supposed
she would not accept them. Physiognomists would hardly discover, by consulting the aspect of
this lord, that his predominant passions were love and play; that he could sometimes scratch
out a song in praise of his mistress, with a pencil and card; or that he hath tears at command,
like a woman, to be used either in an intrigue of gallantry or politics. His alliance with
the Marlborough family, and his passion for the Duchess, were the cords which dragged him into
a party, whose principles he naturally disliked, and whose leaders he personally hated, as
they did him. He became a thorough convert by a perfect trifle; taking fire at a nickname[26]
delivered by Dr. Sacheverell, with great indiscretion, from the pulpit, which he applied to
himself: and this is one among many instances given by his enemies, that magnanimity is none
of his virtues.

[Footnote 25: See note in vol. v., p. 68, of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 26: Volpone. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

The Earl of Sunderland[27] is another of that alliance. His understanding, at the best, is
of the middling size; neither hath he much improved it, either in reality, or, which is very
unfortunate, even in the opinion of the world, by an overgrown library.[31] It is hard to decide,
whether he learned that rough way of treating his sovereign from the lady he is allied to,[32]
or whether it be the result of his own nature. The sense of the injuries he hath done, renders
him (as it is very natural) implacable towards those to whom he hath given greatest cause to
complain; for which reason he will never forgive either the Queen or the present treasurer.

[Footnote 27: See note in vol. v., pp. 377-378 of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 28: John Digby, third earl of Bristol. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 29: Dr. Trimnel, since Bishop of Winton. [ORIGINAL NOTE.] He was Bishop of Norwich,
1708-1721, and of Winchester from 1721 till his death in 1723. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 30: P. Fitzgerald says "Whiggish." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 31: The library that made such a sensation in the bibliographical world when it was
sold at auction in the latter part of the last century. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 32: His lordship married the Duchess of Marlborough's second daughter. "Account,
etc.," p. 286. [N.]]

The Earl of Wharton[33] hath filled the province allotted him by his colleagues, with sufficiency
equal to the ablest of them all. He hath imbibed his father's[34] principles in government;
but dropped his religion, and took up no other in its stead: excepting that circumstance, he
is a firm Presbyterian. He is perfectly skilled in all the arts of managing at elections, as
well as in large baits of pleasure for making converts of young men of quality, upon their
first appearance; in which public service he contracted such large debts, that his brethren
were forced, out of mere justice, to leave Ireland at his mercy, where he had only time to
set himself right. Although the graver heads of his party think him too profligate and abandoned,
yet they dare not be ashamed of him; for, beside his talents above mentioned, he is very useful
in Parliament, being a ready speaker, and content to employ his gift upon such occasions, where
those who conceive they have any remainder of reputation or modesty are ashamed to appear.
In short, he is an uncontestable instance to discover the true nature of faction; since, being
overrun with every quality which produceth contempt and hatred, in all other commerce of the
world, he hath, notwithstanding, been able to make so considerable a figure.

[Footnote 33: See also "A Short Character," etc. in vol. v. and "The Examiner," Nos. 18 and
23, in vol. ix. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 34: The Earl, his father, was a rigid Presbyterian. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

The Lord Cowper,[35] although his merits are later than the rest, deserveth a rank in this
great council. He was considerable in the station of a practising lawyer; but, as he was raised
to be a chancellor, and a peer, without passing through any of the intermediate steps, which
in late times hath been the constant practice, and little skilled[36] in the nature of government,
or the true interests of princes, further than the municipal or common law of England; his
abilities, as to foreign affairs, did not equally appear in the council. Some former passages
of his life were thought to disqualify him for that office, by which he was to be the guardian
of the Queen's conscience;[37] but these difficulties were easily overruled by the authors
of his promotion, who wanted a person that would be subservient to all their designs; wherein
they were not disappointed. As to his other accomplishments, he was what we usually call a
piece of a scholar, and a good logical reasoner; if this were not too often allayed, by a fallacious
way of managing an argument, which made him apt to deceive the unwary, and sometimes to deceive
himself.

[Footnote 35: See vol. v., p. 372 of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 36: P. Fitzgerald says "altogether unskilled." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 37: See "The Examiner," Nos. 18 and 23, in vol. ix. of this edition. [W.S.J.]]

The last to be spoken of in this list is the Earl of Nottingham,[38] a convert and acquisition
to that party since their fall, to which he contributed his assistance; I mean his words, and
probably his wishes; for he had always lived under the constant visible profession of principles,
directly opposite to those of his new friends. His vehement and frequent speeches against admitting
the Prince of Orange to the throne are yet to be seen; and although a numerous family gave
a specious pretence to his love of power and money, for taking an employment under that monarch,
yet he was allowed to have always kept a reserve of allegiance to his exiled master; of which
his friends produce several instances, and some while he was secretary of state to King William.
His outward regularity of life, his appearance of religion, and seeming zeal for the Church,
as they are an effect, so they are the excuse for that stiffness and formality with which his
nature[39] is fraught. His adust complexion disposeth him to rigour[40] and severity, which
his admirers palliate with the name of zeal. No man had ever a sincerer countenance, or more
truly representing his mind and manners. He hath some knowledge in the law, very amply sufficient
to defend his property at least.[41] A facility of utterance, descended to him from his father,[42]
and improved by a few sprinklings of literature, hath brought himself, and some few admirers,
into an opinion of his eloquence. He is every way inferior to his brother Guernsey,[43] but
chiefly in those talents which he most values and pretends to; over whom, nevertheless, he
preserveth an ascendant.[44] His great ambition was to be the head of those who were called
the Church party; and, indeed, his grave solemn deportment and countenance, seconded by abundance
of professions for their service, had given many of them an opinion of his veracity,[45] which
he interpreted as their sense of his judgment and wisdom;[46] and this mistake lasted till
the time of his defection, of which it was partly the cause; but then it plainly appeared,
that he had not credit to bring over one single proselyte, to keep himself in countenance.

[Footnote 38: See notes in vol. v., pp. 246-248 of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 39: P. Fitzgerald says "that stiffness, pride, and formality with which his intractable
nature." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 40: P. Fitzgerald says "to cruelty." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote: 41 P. Fitzgerald says "some smattering in the law, which makes it not very safe
or easy to deal with him, where property is concerned." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 42: P. Fitzgerald adds "grafted upon a wrong understanding." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 43: Heneage Finch was created Lord Guernsey in 1703, and Earl of Aylesford in 1714.
He died in 1719. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 44: P. Fitzgerald adds "I suppose by the right of primogeniture." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 45: P. Fitzgerald says "of his honesty." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 46: He acquired, from his solemnity of deportment, the nickname of Diego and from
his gravity, that of Dismal. [S.]]

These lineaments, however imperfectly drawn, may help the reader's imagination to conceive
what sort of persons those were, who had the boldness to encounter the Queen and ministry,
at the head of a great majority of the landed interest; and this upon a point where the quiet
of Her Majesty's reign, the security, or at least the freedom, of her person, the lives of
her most faithful friends, and the settling of the nation by a peace, were, in the consequences,
deeply concerned.[47]

[Footnote 47: It was these "lineaments, imperfectly drawn," that Erasmus Lewis specially emphasized
for omission, in his letter to Swift already referred to. (Sir W. Scott's edit., vol. xix.,
pp. 133-136). [T.S.]]

During the dominion of the late men in power, addresses had been procured from both Houses
to the Queen, representing their opinion, that no peace could be secure for Britain, while
Spain or the West Indies remained in the possession of the Bourbon family. But Her Majesty
having, for reasons which have been often told to the world, and which will not soon be forgotten,
called a new Parliament, and chose a new set of servants, began to view things and persons
in another light. She considered the necessities of her people, the distant prospect of a peace
upon such an improbable condition, which was never mentioned or understood in the grand alliance;
the unequal burthen she bore in the war, by the practices of the allies upon the corruption
of some whom she most trusted, or perhaps by the practices of these upon the allies; and, lastly,
by the changes which death had brought about in the Austrian and Bourbon families. Upon all
which motives she was prevailed upon to receive some overtures from France, in behalf of herself
and the whole confederacy. The several steps of this negotiation, from its first rise to the
time I am now writing, shall be related in another part of this History. Let it suffice for
the present to say, that such proposals were received from France as were thought sufficient
by our court whereupon to appoint time and place for a general treaty; and soon after the opening
of the session, the Bishop[48] of Bristol, lord privy seal, was dispatched to Utrecht, where
he and the Earl of Strafford were appointed plenipotentiaries for the Queen of Great Britain.

[Footnote 48: Dr. Robinson, afterwards Bishop of London. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

The managers of the discontented party, who, during the whole summer, had observed the motions
of the court running fast towards a peace, began to gather up all their forces, in order to
oppose Her Majesty's designs, when the Parliament should meet. Their only strength was in the
House of Lords, where the Queen had a very crazy majority, made up by those whose hearts were
in the other interest; but whose fears, expectations, or immediate dependence, had hitherto
kept them within bounds. There were two lords upon whose abilities and influence, of a very
different nature, the managers built their strongest hopes. The first was the Duke of Somerset,
master of the horse. This duke, as well as his duchess, was in a good degree of favour with
the Queen, upon the score of some civilities and respects Her Majesty had received from them,
while she was princess.[49] For some years after the Revolution, he never appeared at court,
but was looked upon as a favourer of the abdicated family; and it was the late Earl of Rochester
who first presented him to King William. However, since the time he came into employment, which
was towards the close of the last reign, he hath been a constant zealous member of the other
party; but never failed in either attendance or respect towards the Queen's person, or, at
most, only threatened sometimes, that he would serve no longer, while such or such men were
employed; which, as things went then, was not reckoned any offence at all against duty or good
behaviour. He had been much caressed and flattered by the Lords of the Junto,[50] who sometimes
went so far as to give him hopes of the crown, in reversion to his family, upon failure of
the house of Hanover. All this worked so far upon his imagination, that he affected to appear
the head of their party, to which his talents were no way proportioned; for they soon grew
weary of his indigested schemes, and his imperious manner of obtruding them: they began to
drop him at their meetings, or contradicted him, with little ceremony, when he happened to
be there, which his haughty nature[51] was not able to brook. Thus a mortal quarrel was kindled
between him and the whole assembly of party leaders; so that, upon the Queen's first intentions
of changing her ministry, soon after the trial of Dr. Sacheverell, he appointed several meetings
with Mr. Harley alone, in the most private manner, in places and at times least liable to suspicion.
He employed all his credit with the Queen to drive on the removal of my Lord Godolphin, and
the rest; and, in the council, treated the small remainder, who continued some time longer
in their places, with all possible marks of hatred or disdain. But when the question came for
dissolving the Parliament, he stopped short: he had already satiated his resentments, which
were not against things, but persons: he furiously opposed that counsel, and promised to undertake
for the Parliament himself. When the Queen had declared her pleasure for the dissolution, he
flew off in greater rage than ever; opposed the court in all elections, where he had influence
or power; and made very humble[52] advances to reconcile himself with the discarded lords,
especially the Earl of Godolphin, who is reported to have treated him at Newmarket in a most
contemptuous manner. But the sincerity of his repentance, which appeared manifestly in the
first session of the new Parliament, and the use he might be of by his own remaining credit,
or rather that of his duchess, with the Queen, at length begat a reconcilement. He still kept
his employment, and place in the cabinet council; but had never appeared there, from an avowed
dislike of all persons and proceedings. It happened about the end of summer, one thousand seven
hundred and eleven, at Windsor, when the cabinet council was summoned, this duke, whether by
directions from his teachers, or the instability of his nature, took a fancy to resume his
place, and a chair was brought accordingly; upon which Mr. Secretary St. John refused to assist,
and gave his reasons, that he would never sit in council with a man who had so often betrayed
them, and was openly engaged with a faction which endeavoured to obstruct all Her Majesty's
measures. Thus the council was put off to next day, and the duke made no farther attempts to
be there.[53] But, upon this incident, he declared open war against the ministry; and, from
that time to the session, employed himself in spiriting up several depending lords to adhere
to their friends, when an occasion should offer. The arguments he made use of, were, that those
in power designed to make an ignominious and insecure peace, without consulting the allies;
that this could be no otherwise prevented than by an address from the Lords, to signify their
opinion, that no peace could be honourable or secure, while Spain or the West Indies remained
in any of the Bourbon family:[54] upon which several farther resolutions and inquiries would
naturally follow; that the differences between the two Houses, upon this point, must either
be made up by the Commons agreeing with the Lords, or must end in a dissolution, which would
be followed by a return of the old ministry, who, by the force of money and management, could
easily get another Parliament to their wishes. He farther assured them boldly, that the Queen
herself was at the bottom of this design, and had empowered him to desire their votes against
the peace, as a point that would be for her service; and therefore they need not be in pain
upon account of their pensions, or any farther marks of favour they expected. Thus, by reviving
the old art of using Her Majesty's authority against her person, he prevailed over some, who
were not otherwise in a station of life to oppose the crown; and his proselytes may pretend
to some share of pity, since he offered for an argument his own example, who kept his place
and favour, after all he had done to deserve the loss of both.

[Footnote 49: In 1692, on a difference which the princess had with King William and his Queen,
occasioned by her warm attachment to the Duchess of Marlborough, she quitted The Cockpit, and
accepted the Duke of Somerset's offer of Sion House for a temporary residence. [N.]]

[Footnote 50: A cant name given to five lords of that party. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

[Footnote 51: P. Fitzgerald says "the pride of his nature." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 52: P. Fitzgerald says "the meanest." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 54: It was Nottingham who moved this argument in the form of an amendment to the
address on 7th December, 1711. See infra, and also vol. v., p. 444 of present edition. [T.S.]]

The other lord, in whom the discontented managers placed much of their hopes, was the Earl
of Nottingham, already mentioned; than whom no man ever appeared to hate them more, or to be
more pleased at their fall, partly from his avowed principles, but chiefly from the hopes he
had of sharing in their spoils. But it fell out, that he was no way acceptable to the Queen
or her new servants: these apprehended no little trouble and impediment to the public business,
from his restless, talkative, overweening manner, if once he was suffered to have any part
in affairs; and he stood very ill with the court, having made a motion in the House of Lords,
and in Her Majesty's presence, that the Electoral Prince of Hanover might be invited to reside
in England, although he had before declared to the Queen how much he was against that proposal,
when it was first offered by the other party. However, some very considerable employments had
been given to his nearest relations, and he had one or two offers for himself, which he thought
fit to refuse, as not equal to his merits and character. Upon the Earl of Rochester's decease,
he conceived that the crown would hardly overlook him for president of the council, and deeply
resented that disappointment. But the Duke of Newcastle, lord privy seal, dying some time after,
he found that office was first designed for the Earl of Jersey, and, upon this lord's sudden
death, was actually disposed of to the Bishop of Bristol by which he plainly saw, that the
Queen was determined against giving him any opportunity of directing in affairs, or displaying
his eloquence in the cabinet council. He had now shaken off all remains of patience or temper,
and, from the contemplation of his own disappointments, fell, as it is natural, to find fault
with the public management, and to assure his neighbours in the country, that the nation was
in imminent danger of being ruined. The discontented[55] lords were soon apprised of this great
change, and the Duke of Roxburgh,[56] the earl's son-in-law, was dispatched to Burleigh on
the Hill, to cultivate his present dispositions, and offer him whatever terms he pleased to
insist on. The Earl immediately agreed to fall in with any measures for distressing or destroying
the ministry but, in order to preserve his reputation with the Church party, and perhaps bring
them over to his interests, he proposed, that a bill should be brought into the House of Lords
for preventing occasional conformity, and be unanimously agreed to by all the peers of the
low-church[57] principle, which would convince the world of their good intentions to the established
religion,[58] and that their oppositions to the court wholly proceeded from their care of the
nation, and concern for its honour and safety.[59]

[Footnote 55: P. Fitzgerald says "factious." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 56: John Ker, Earl of Roxburgh, was created Earl of Kelso, Marquess of Cessford and
Beaumont, and Duke of Roxburgh in 1707. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 57: P. Fitzgerald says "Whig." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 58: P. Fitzgerald says "established Church." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 59: Nottingham succeeded in carrying the bill against Occasional Conformity on December
15th, 1711. See Swift's "Letter to a Whig Lord," in vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

These preparations were public enough, and the ministers had sufficient time to arm themselves;
but they seem to have acted, in this juncture, like men who trusted to the goodness of their
cause, and the general inclinations of the kingdom, rather than to those arts which our corruptions
have too often made necessary. Calculations were indeed taken, by which it was computed, that
there would be a majority of ten upon the side of the court. I remember to have told my Lord
Harcourt and Mr. Prior, that a majority of ten was only a majority of five, because if their
adversaries could bring off five, the number would be equal: and so it happened to prove; for
the mistake lay in counting upon the bare promises of those who were wholly in the interest
of the old ministry, and were only kept in awe by the fear of offending the crown, and losing
their subsistence, wherein the Duke of Somerset had given them full satisfaction.

With these dispositions of both parties, and fears and hopes of the event, the Parliament met
upon the seventh of December, one thousand seven hundred and eleven. The Queen's speech (excepting
what related to supplies) was chiefly taken up in telling both Houses what progress she had
made towards a general peace, and her hopes of bringing it to a speedy conclusion. As soon
as Her Majesty was withdrawn, the House of Lords, in a committee, resolved upon an address
of thanks; to which the Earl of Nottingham proposed an addition of the following clause.

He was seconded by the Earl of Scarborough; and, after a debate of several hours, the question
for the clause was carried, as I remember, by not above two voices.[60] The next day the House
agreed with the committee. The depending lords, having taken fresh courage from their principals,
and some who professed themselves very humble servants to the present ministry, and enemies
to the former, went along with the stream, pretending not to see the consequences that must
visibly follow. The address was presented on the eleventh, to which Her Majesty's answer was
short and dry. She distinguished their thanks from the rest of the piece; and, in return to
Lord Nottingham's clause, said, She should be sorry that any body could think she would not
do her utmost to recover Spain and the West Indies from the house of Bourbon.

[Footnote 60: The previous question in favour of the Earl of Nottingham's amendment was carried
by a single vote, the main question by a majority of no less than eight! [S.] But Bishop Burnet
says "by three voices" ("Hist. Own Time," ii. 584), and Coxe says "by a majority of 64 to 52."
[W.S.J.]]

Upon the fifteenth of December the Earl of Nottingham likewise brought in the bill to prevent
occasional conformity (although under a disguised title), which met with no opposition; but
was swallowed by those very lords, who always appeared with the utmost violence against the
least advantage to the established Church.

But in the House of Commons there appeared a very different spirit; for when one Mr. Robert
Walpole offered a clause of the same nature with that of the Earl of Nottingham, it was rejected
with contempt by a very great majority. Their address was in the most dutiful manner, approving
of what Her Majesty had done towards a peace, and trusting entirely to her wisdom in the future
management of it. This address was presented to the Queen a day before that of the Lords, and
received an answer distinguishedly gracious. But the other party[61] was no ways discouraged
by either answer, which they looked upon as only matter of course, and the sense of the ministry,
contrary to that of the Queen.

[Footnote 61: P. Fitzgerald says "faction." [W.S.J.]]

The Parliament sat as long as the approaching festival would allow; and upon the twenty-second,
the land-tax and occasional bills having received the royal assent, the House of Commons adjourned
to the fourteenth of January following: but the adjournment of the Lords was only to the second,
the prevailing party there being in haste to pursue the consequences of the Earl of Nottingham's
clause, which they hoped would end in the ruin of the treasurer, and overthrow the ministry;
and therefore took the advantage of this interval, that they might not be disturbed by the Commons.

When this address against any peace without Spain, &c. was carried in the House of Lords, it
is not easy to describe the effects it had upon most men's passions. The partisans of the old
ministry triumphed loudly, and without any reserve, as if the game were their own. The Earl
of Wharton was observed in the House to smile, and put his hands to his neck when any of the
ministry was speaking, by which he would have it understood that some heads were in danger.
Parker, the chief justice, began already with great zeal and officiousness to prosecute authors
and printers of weekly and other papers, writ in defence of the administration: in short, joy
and vengeance sat visible in every countenance of that party.[62]

[Footnote 62: See "Journal to Stella," December 13th (vol. ii., p. 299 of present edition).
[W.S.J.]]

On the other side, all well-wishers to the Queen, the Church, or the peace, were equally dejected;
and the treasurer stood the foremost mark both of his enemies' fury, and the censure of his
friends: among the latter, some imputed this fatal miscarriage to his procrastinating nature;
others, to his unmeasurable public thrift: both parties agreed, that a first minister, with
very moderate skill in affairs, might easily have governed the event: and some began to doubt,
whether the great fame of his abilities, acquired in other stations, were what he justly deserved:
all this he knew well enough, and heard it with great phlegm; neither did it make any alteration
in his countenance or humour. He told Monsieur Buys, the Dutch envoy, two days before the Parliament
sat, that he was sorry for what was like to pass, because the States would be the first sufferers,
which he desired the envoy to remember: and to his nearest friends, who appeared in pain about
the public or themselves, he only said that all would be well, and desired them not to be frighted.[63]

[Footnote 63: See Swift's account of an interview with the lord treasurer in his "Journal to
Stella," December 8th (ibid., p. 296). [W.S.J.]]

It was, I conceive, upon these motives, that the treasurer advised Her Majesty to create twelve
new lords,[64] and thereby disable the sting of faction for the rest of her lifetime: this
promotion was so ordered, that a third part were of those on whom, or their posterity, the
peerage would naturally devolve; and the rest were such, whose merit, birth, and fortune, could
admit of no exception.

[Footnote 64: See note, vol. ii., p. 308, and note, vol. v., p. 446. [W.S.J.]]

The adverse party, being thus driven down by open force, had nothing left but to complain,
which they loudly did; that it was a pernicious[65] example set for ill princes to follow,
who, by the same rule, might make at any time an hundred as well as twelve, and by these means
become masters of the House of Lords whenever they pleased, which would be dangerous to our
liberties. To this it was answered, that ill princes seldom trouble themselves to look for
precedents; that men of great estates will not be less fond of preserving their liberties when
they are created peers; that in such a government as this, where the Prince holds the balance
between two great powers, the nobility and people, it is the very nature of his office to remove
from one scale into the other, or sometimes put his own weight in the lightest, so as to bring
both to an equilibrium; and lastly, that the other party had been above twenty years corrupting
the nobility with republican principles, which nothing but the royal prerogative could hinder
from overspreading us.

[Footnote 65: P. Fitzgerald says "dangerous." [W.S.J.]]

The conformity bill above mentioned was prepared by the Earl of Nottingham before the Parliament
met, and brought in at the same time with the clause against peace, according to the bargain
made between him and his new friends: this he hoped would not only save his credit with the
Church party, but bring them over to his politics, since they must needs be convinced, that
instead of changing his own principles, he had prevailed on the greatest enemies to the established
religion to be the first movers in a law for the perpetual settlement of it. Here it was worth
observing, with what resignation the Junto Lords (as they were then called) were submitted
to by their adherents and followers; for it is well known, that the chief among the dissenting
teachers in town were consulted upon this affair, and such arguments used, as had power to
convince them, that nothing could be of greater advantage to their cause than the passing this
bill. I did, indeed, see a letter at that time from one of them to a great[66] man, complaining,
that they were betrayed and undone by their pretended friends; but they were in general very
well satisfied upon promises that this law should soon be repealed, and others more in their
favour enacted, as soon as their friends should be re-established.

[Footnote 66: It was to the Treasurer himself. [ORIGINAL NOTE.] Scott says that it was written
by Mr. Shower on December 20th, and that the writer complained that the Dissenters had "been
shamefully abandoned, sold, and sacrificed, by their professed friends." [W.S.J.]]

But nothing seemed more extraordinary than the event of this refined management, by which the
Earl of Nottingham was so far from bringing over proselytes (wherein his abilities fell very
short even of the Duke of Somerset's); or preserving the reputation of a firm churchman, that
very few people did so much as imagine he had any such design; only when he brought in the
bill, they conceived it was some wonderful deep reach of politics, which they could not comprehend:
however, they liked the thing, and without troubling themselves about the persons or motives
from whence it rose, it had a very speedy passage through both Houses. It must be confessed,
that some attempt of this nature was much more necessary to the leaders of that party, than
is generally thought. The desire of power and revenge was common to them all; but several among
them were also conscious that they stood in need of protection, whose safety was therefore
concerned in the design of ruining the ministry, as well as their ambition. The Duke of Marlborough
foresaw those examinations, which were afterwards made into some parts of his management, and
was apprehensive of a great deal more; that the Parliament would perhaps enquire into the particulars
of the negotiation at The Hague in one thousand seven hundred and nine; for what ends, and
by whose advice the propositions of peace from France were rejected: besides, he dreaded lest
that mysterious policy might be laid open to the world, of desiring the Queen to constitute
him general for life, which was a very tender point, and would admit of much proof. It is true,
indeed, that whilst the Duke's affair was under the consideration of the House of Commons,
one of his creatures[67] (whether by direction or otherwise) assured the Speaker, with a very
serious countenance, that the world was mistaken in censuring his lord upon this article; for
it was the Queen who pressed the Duke to accept that commission; and upon his humble refusal
conceived her first displeasure against him. How such a defence would have passed, if it had
been offered in form, is easier to be conceived, than how any person in his wits could have
the confidence to affirm it; which last it would indeed be hard to believe, if there were any
room left for doubt.

[Footnote 67: Craggs, father to the secretary. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

The Earl of Godolphin wanted protection, notwithstanding the act of general pardon, which had
been procured by his credit, and was principally calculated for his own security. He knew that
his long neglect of compelling the accomptants to pass their accompts, might be punished as
a breach of trust. He had run the kingdom into immense debts, by taking up stores for the navy
upon a vast discount, without parliamentary security; for which he could be able to plead neither
law nor necessity: and he had given way, at least, to some proceedings, not very justifiable,
in relation to remittances of money, whereby the public had suffered considerable losses. The
Barrier Treaty sat heavy upon the Lord Townshend's spirits, because if it should be laid before
the House of Commons, whoever negotiated that affair, might be subject to the most severe animadversions:
and the Earl of Wharton's administration in Ireland was looked upon as a sufficient ground
to impeach him, at least, for high crimes and misdemeanours.

The managers in Holland were sufficiently apprised of all this; and Monsieur Buys, their minister
here, took care to cultivate that good correspondence between his masters and their English
friends, which became two confederates, pursuing the same end.

This man[68] had been formerly employed in England from that republic, and understood a little
of our language. His proficiency in learning has been such, as to furnish now and then a Latin
quotation, of which he is as liberal as his stock will admit. His knowledge in government reaches
no farther than that of his own country, by which he forms and cultivates matters of state
for the rest of the world. His reasonings upon politics are with great profusion at all meetings;
and he leaves the company with entire satisfaction that he hath fully convinced them. He is
well provided with that inferior sort of cunning, which is the growth of his country, of a
standard with the genius of the people, and capable of being transferred into every condition
of life among them, from the boor to the burgomaster. He came into England with instructions,
authorizing him to accommodate all differences between Her Majesty and the States; but having
first advised with the confederate lords, he assured the ministry he had powers to hear their
proposals, but none to conclude: and having represented to his masters what had been told him
by the adverse party, he prevailed with them to revoke his powers. He found the interest of
those who withstood the court, would exactly fall in with the designs of the States, which
were to carry on the war as they could, at our expense, and to see themselves at the head of
a treaty of peace, whenever they were disposed to apply to France, or to receive overtures
from thence.[69]

[Footnote 68: P. Fitzgerald says "gentleman." And yet the facts as related by Swift in this
and the last book of this "History" are substantially the facts as disclosed in Bolingbroke's
Political Correspondence. [T.S.]]

The Emperor, upon many powerful reasons, was utterly averse from all counsels which aimed at
putting an end to the war, without delivering him the whole dominion of Spain; nay, the Elector
of Hanover himself, although presumptive heir to the crown of England, and obliged by all sorts
of ties to cultivate Her Majesty's friendship, was so far deceived by misrepresentations from
hence, that he seemed to suffer Monsieur Bothmar, his envoy here, to print and publish a Memorial
in English, directly disapproving all Her Majesty's proceedings; which Memorial, as appeareth
by the style and manner of it, was all drawn up, or at least digested, by some party pen on
this side of the water.[70]

[Footnote 70: See Swift's "Some Free Thoughts upon the Present State of Affairs," and the note
on p. 410 of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

Cautious writers, in order to avoid offence or danger, and to preserve the respect even[71]
due to foreign princes, do usually charge the wrong steps in a court altogether upon the persons
employed; but I should have taken a securer method, and have been wholly silent in this point,
if I had not then conceived some hope, that his Electoral Highness might possibly have been
a stranger[72] to the Memorial of his resident: for, first, the manner of delivering it to
the secretary of state was out of all form, and almost as extraordinary as the thing itself.
Monsieur Bothmar having obtained an hour of Mr. Secretary St. John, talked much to him upon
the subject of which that Memorial consists; and upon going away, desired he might leave a
paper with the secretary, which he said contained the substance of what he had been discoursing.
This paper Mr. St. John laid aside, among others of little consequence; and a few days[73]
saw a Memorial in print,[74] which he found upon comparing to be the same with what Bothmar
had left.

[Footnote 71: Edition of 1775 has "ever due." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 72: P. Fitzgerald says "If I had not very good reason to believe that his Electoral
Highness was altogether a stranger." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 73: Edition of 1775 has "a few days after." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 74: This was published as a broadside, with the title: "The Elector of Hanover's
Memorial to the Queen of Great-Britain, relating to the Peace with France." It was dated 28th
of Nov/9th of Dec., 1711. [W.S.J.]]

During this short recess of Parliament, and upon the fifth day of January, Prince Eugene, of
Savoy, landed in England. Before he left his ship he asked a person who came to meet him, whether
the new lords were made, and what was their number? He was attended through the streets with
a mighty rabble of people to St. James's, where Mr. Secretary St. John introduced him to the
Queen, who received him with great civility. His arrival had been long expected, and the project
of his journey had as long been formed here by the party leaders, in concert with Monsieur
Buys, and Monsieur Bothmar, the Dutch and Hanover envoys. This prince brought over credentials
from the Emperor, with offers to continue the war upon a new foot, very advantageous to Britain;
part of which, by Her Majesty's commands, Mr. St. John soon after produced to the House of
Commons; where they were rejected, not without some indignation, by a great majority. The Emperor's
proposals, as far as they related to Spain, were communicated to the House in the words following.

"His Imperial Majesty judges, that forty thousand men will be sufficient for this service,
and that the whole expense of the war in Spain, may amount to four millions of crowns, towards
which His Imperial Majesty offers to make up the troops, which he has in that country, to thirty
thousand men, and to take one million of crowns upon himself".

On the other side the House of Commons voted a third part of those four millions as a sufficient
quota for Her Majesty toward that service, for it was supposed the Emperor ought to bear the
greatest proportion in a point that so nearly concerned him, or at least, that Britain contributing
one third, the other two might be paid by his Imperial Majesty and the States, as they could
settle it between them.

The design of Prince Eugene's journey, was to raise a spirit in the Parliament and people for
continuing the war, for nothing was thought impossible to a prince of such high reputation
in arms, in great favour with the Emperor, and empowered to make such proposals from his master,
as the ministry durst not reject. It appeared by an intercepted letter from Count Gallas, (formerly
the Emperor's envoy here) that the prince was wholly left to his liberty of making what offers
he pleased in the Emperor's name, for if the Parliament could once be brought to raise funds,
and the war go on, the ministry here must be under a necessity of applying and expending those
funds, and the Emperor could afterwards find twenty reasons and excuses, as he had hitherto
done, for not furnishing his quota; therefore Prince Eugene, for some time, kept himself within
generals, until being pressed to explain himself upon that particular of the war in Spain,
which the house of Austria pretended to have most at heart, he made the offer above mentioned,
as a most extraordinary effort, and so it was, considering how little they had ever done before,
towards recovering that monarchy to themselves; but shameful as these proposals were, few believed
the Emperor would observe them, or, indeed, that he ever intended to spare so many men, as
would make up an army of thirty thousand men, to be employed in Spain.

Prince Eugene's visit to his friends in England continued longer than was expected; he was
every day entertained magnificently by persons of quality of both parties; he went frequently
to the treasurer, and sometimes affected to do it in private; he visited the other ministers
and great officers of the court, but on all occasions publicly owned the character and appellation
of a Whig; and in secret, held continual meetings with the Duke of Marlborough, and the other
discontented lords, where M. Bothmar usually assisted. It is the great ambition of this prince
to be perpetually engaged in war, without considering the cause or consequence; and to see
himself at the head of an army, where only he can make any considerable figure. He is not without
a natural tincture of that cruelty, sometimes charged upon the Italians; and being nursed in
arms, hath so far extinguished pity and remorse, that he will at any time sacrifice a thousand
men's lives, to a caprice of glory or revenge. He had conceived an incurable hatred for the
treasurer, as the person who principally opposed this insatiable passion for war; said he had
hopes of others, but that the treasurer was un méchant diable, not to be moved; therefore,
since it was impossible for him or his friends to compass their designs, while that minister
continued at the head of affairs, he proposed an expedient, often practised by those of his
country, that the treasurer (to use his own expression) should be taken off, à la négligence;
that this might easily be done, and pass for an effect of chance, if it were preceded by encouraging
some proper people to commit small riots in the night: and in several parts of the town, a
crew of obscure ruffians were accordingly employed about that time, who probably exceeded their
commission; and mixing themselves with those disorderly people that often infest the streets
at midnight, acted inhuman outrages on many persons, whom they cut and mangled in the face
and arms, and other parts of the body, without any provocation; but an effectual stop was soon
put to these enormities, which probably prevented the execution of the main design.[75]

[Footnote 75: Erasmus Lewis, Lord Oxford, and the others who read the MS., advised the elimination
of this insinuation against Prince Eugene. They thought there was truth in it, but "a matter
of so high a nature," as Lewis expressed it to Swift, "ought not to be asserted without exhibiting
the proofs." The paragraph following the one in the text, containing the imputation, seems
as if it had been written after Swift had received Lewis's strictures. [T.S.]]

I am very sensible, that such an imputation ought not to be charged upon any person whatsoever,
upon slight grounds or doubtful surmises; and that those who think I am able to produce no
better, will judge this passage to be fitter for a libel than a history; but as the account
was given by more than one person who was at the meeting, so it was confirmed past all contradiction
by several intercepted letters and papers: and it is most certain, that the rage of the defeated
party, upon their frequent disappointments, was so far inflamed, as to make them capable of
some counsels yet more violent and desperate than this, which, however, by the vigilance of
those near the person of Her Majesty, were happily prevented.

On the thirtieth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and eleven, the Duke of Marlborough
was removed from all his employments: the Duke of Ormonde succeeding him as general, both here
and in Flanders. This proceeding of the court (as far as it related to the Duke of Marlborough)
was much censured both at home and abroad, and by some who did not wish ill to the present
situation of affairs. There were few examples of a commander being disgraced, after an uninterrupted
course of success for many years against a formidable enemy, and this before a period was put
to the war: those who had least esteem for his valour and conduct, thought it not prudent to
remove a general, whose troops were perpetually victorious, while he was at their head; because
this had infused into his soldiers an opinion that they should always conquer, and into the
enemy that they should always be beaten; than which, nothing is to be held of greater moment,
either in the progress of a war, or upon the day of battle; and I have good grounds to affirm,
that these reasons had sufficient weight with the Queen and ministry to have kept the Duke
of Marlborough in his post, if a way could have been found out to have done it with any assurance
of safety to the nation. It is the misfortune of princes, that the effects of their displeasure
make usually much more noise than the causes: thus, the sound of the Duke's fall was heard
farther than many of the reasons which made it necessary; whereof, though some were visible
enough, yet others lay more in the dark. Upon the Duke's last return from Flanders, he had
fixed his arrival to town (whether by accident or otherwise) upon the seventeenth of November,
called Queen Elizabeth's day, when great numbers of his creatures and admirers had thought
fit to revive an old ceremony among the rabble, of burning the Pope in effigy; for the performance
of which, with more solemnity, they had made extraordinary preparations.[76] From the several
circumstances of the expense of this intended pageantry, and of the persons who promoted it,
the court, apprehensive of a design to inflame the common people, thought fit to order, that
the several figures should be seized as popish trinkets; and guards were ordered to patrol,
for preventing any tumultuous assemblies. Whether this frolic were only intended for an affront
to the court, or whether it had a deeper meaning, I must leave undetermined. The Duke, in his
own nature, is not much turned to be popular; and in his flourishing times, whenever he came
back to England upon the close of a campaign, he rather affected to avoid any concourse of
the mobile, if they had been disposed to attend him; therefore, so very contrary a proceeding
at this juncture, made it suspected as if he had a design to have placed himself at their head.
"France," "Popery," "The Pretender," "Peace without Spain," were the words to be given about
at this mock parade; and if what was confidently asserted be true, that a report was to have
been spread at the same time of the Queen's death, no man can tell what might have been the event.

[Footnote 76: See Swift's "Journal to Stella," Letter xxxv. (vol. ii., pp. 283-84), and "A
True Relation of the Intended Riot," printed in Scott's edition, vol. v., pp. 399-413. [W.S.J.]

"The burning of a Pope in effigy," notes Scott--in his reprint of what Swift called "the Grub
Street account of the tumult"--"upon the 17th November, the anniversary of Queen Elizabeth's
coronation, was a favourite pastime with the mob of London, and often employed by their superiors
as a means of working upon their passions and prejudices." A full account of this ceremony
is given in his edition of Dryden's Works, 1808, vol. vi., p. 222. An account of the attempt
"to revive an old ceremony," referred to by Swift, was published also in "The Post Boy" for
November 20th, 1711. [T.S.]]

But this attempt, to whatever purposes intended, proving wholly abortive by the vigilance of
those in power, the Duke's arrival was without any noise or consequence; and upon consulting
with his friends, he soon fell in with their new scheme for preventing the peace. It was believed
by many persons, that the ministers might, with little difficulty, have brought him over, if
they had pleased to make a trial; for as he would probably have accepted any terms to continue
in a station of such prodigious[77] profit, so there was sufficient room to work upon his fears,
of which he is seldom unprovided[78] (I mean only in his political capacity) and his infirmity
very much increased by his unmeasurable possessions, which have rendered him, ipsique[79] onerique
timentem; but reason, as well as the event, proved this to be a mistake: for the ministers
being determined to bring the war to as speedy an issue as the honour and safety of their country
would permit, could not possibly recompense the Duke for the mighty incomes he held by the
continuance of it. Then the other party had calculated their numbers; and by the accession
of the Earl of Nottingham, whose example they hoped would have many followers, and the successful
solicitations of the Duke of Somerset, found they were sure of a majority in the House of Lords:
so that in this view of circumstances, the Duke of Marlborough thought he acted with security,
as well as advantage: he therefore boldly fell, with his whole weight, into the design of ruining
the ministry, at the expense of his duty to his sovereign, and the welfare of his country,
after the mighty obligations he had received from both. WHIG and TORY were now no longer the
dispute, but THE QUEEN or THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH: He was at the head of all the cabals and
consults with Bothmar, Buys, and the discontented lords. He forgot that government of his passion,
for which his admirers used to celebrate him, fell into all the impotencies of anger and violence
upon every party debate: so that the Queen found herself under a necessity, either on the one
side to sacrifice those friends, who had ventured their lives in rescuing her out of the power
of some, whose former treatment she had little reason to be fond of, to put an end[80] to the
progress she had made towards a peace, and dissolve her Parliament; or, on the other side,
by removing one person from so great a trust, to get clear of all her difficulties at once:
Her Majesty therefore determined upon the latter, as the shorter and safer course; and during
the recess at Christmas, sent the Duke a letter, to tell him she had no farther occasion for
his service.[81]

[Footnote 77: P. Fitzgerald says "immense." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 78: P. Fitzgerald adds "being in his nature the most timorous person alive." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 79: P. Fitzgerald says "sibique." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 80: P. Fitzgerald says "to complete." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 81: See the Duchess of Marlborough's narrative of this transaction in the "Account
of her Conduct," etc., pp. 264-269, where his Grace's letter to the Queen, on his dismission
from her service, is printed. [N.]]

There hath not perhaps in the present age been a clearer instance to shew the instability of
greatness which is not founded upon virtue; and it may be an instruction to princes, who are
well in the hearts of their people, that the overgrown power of any particular person, although
supported by exorbitant wealth, can by a little resolution be reduced in a moment, without
any dangerous consequences. This lord, who was, beyond all comparison, the greatest subject
in Christendom, found his power, credit, and influence, crumble away on a sudden; and, except
a few friends or followers, by inclination, the rest dropped off in course. From directing
in some manner the affairs of Europe, he descended to be a member of a faction, and with little
distinction even there: that virtue of subduing his resentments, for which he was so famed
when he had little or no occasion to exert it, having now wholly forsaken him when he stood
most in need of its assistance; and upon trial was found unable to bear a reverse of fortune,
giving way to rage, impatience, envy, and discontent.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

THE HISTORY OF THE FOUR LAST

YEARS OF THE QUEEN.

BOOK II.

The House of Lords met upon the second day of January, according to their adjournment; but
before they could proceed to business, the twelve new-created peers were, in the usual form,
admitted to their seats in that assembly, who, by their numbers, turned the balance on the
side of the court, and voted an adjournment to the same day with the Commons. Upon the fourteenth
of January the two Houses met; but the Queen, who intended to be there in person, sent a message
to inform them, that she was prevented by a sudden return of the gout, and to desire they would
adjourn for three days longer, when Her Majesty hoped she should be able to speak to them.
However, her indisposition still continuing, Mr. Secretary St. John brought another message
to the House of Commons from the Queen, containing the substance of what she intended to have
spoken; "That she could now tell them, her plenipotentiaries were arrived at Utrecht; had begun,
in pursuance of her instructions, to concert the most proper ways of procuring a just satisfaction
to all powers in alliance with her, according to their several treaties, and particularly with
relation to Spain and the West Indies; that she promised to communicate to them the conditions
of peace, before the same should be concluded; that the world would now see how groundless
those reports were, and without the least colour, that a separate peace had been treated; that
her ministers were directed to propose, that a day might be fixed for the finishing, as was
done for the commencement of this treaty; and that, in the mean time, all preparations were
hastening for an early campaign," etc.

Her Majesty's endeavours towards this great work having been in such a forwardness at the time
that her message was sent, I shall here, as in the most proper place, relate the several steps
by which the intercourse between the courts of France and Britain was begun and carried on.

The Marquis de Torcy,[1] sent by the Most Christian King to The Hague, had there, in the year
one thousand seven hundred and nine, made very advantageous offers to the allies, in his master's
name; which our ministers, as well as those of the States, thought fit to refuse, and advanced
other proposals in their stead, but of such a nature as no prince could digest, who did not
lie at the immediate mercy of his enemies. It was demanded, among other things, "That the French
King should employ his own troops, in conjunction with those of the allies, to drive his grandson
out of Spain." The proposers knew very well, that the enemy would never consent to this; and
if it were possible they could at first have any such hopes, Mons. de Torcy assured them to
the contrary, in a manner which might well be believed; for then the British and Dutch plenipotentiaries
were drawing up their demands. They desired that minister to assist them in the style and expression;
which he very readily did, and made use of the strongest words he could find to please them.
He then insisted to know their last resolution, whether these were the lowest terms the allies
would accept; and having received a determinate answer in the affirmative, he spoke to this effect:

[Footnote 1: Jean Baptiste Colbert (1665-1746), Marquis de Torcy, was nephew of the celebrated
Colbert. [W.S.J.]]

"That he thanked them heartily for giving him the happiest day he had ever seen in his life:
that, in perfect obedience to his master, he had made concessions, in his own opinion, highly
derogatory to the King's honour and interest: that he had not concealed the difficulties of
his court, or the discontents of his country, by a long and unsuccessful war, which could only
justify the large offers he had been empowered to make: that the conditions of peace, now delivered
into his hands by the allies, would raise a new spirit in the nation, and remove the greatest
difficulty the court lay under, putting it in his master's power to convince all his subjects
how earnestly His Majesty desired to ease them from the burthen of the war; but that his enemies
would not accept of any terms, which could consist either with their safety or his honour."
Mons. Torcy assured the pensionary, in the strongest manner, and bid him count upon it, that
the King his master would never sign those articles.

It soon appeared, that the Marquis de Torcy's predictions were true; for upon delivering to
his master the last resolutions of the allies, that Prince took care to publish them all over
his kingdom, as an appeal to his subjects against the unreasonableness and injustice of his
enemies: which proceeding effectually answered the utmost he intended by it; for the French
nation, extremely jealous of their monarch's glory, made universal offers of their lives and
fortunes, rather than submit to such ignominious terms; and the clergy, in particular, promised
to give the King their consecrated plate, towards continuing the war. Thus that mighty kingdom,
generally thought to be wholly exhausted of its wealth, yet, when driven to a necessity by
the imprudence of the allies, or by the corruption of particular men, who influenced their
councils, recovered strength enough to support itself for three following campaigns: and in
the last, by the fatal blindness or obstinacy of the Dutch (venturing to act without the assistance
of Britain, which they had shamefully abandoned), was an overmatch for the whole confederate
army.[2]

[Footnote 2: Alluding to the defeat at Denain (July 24th, 1712). [S.]]

Those who, in order to defend the proceedings of the allies, have given an account of this
negotiation, do wholly omit the circumstance I have now related, and express the zeal of the
British and Dutch ministers for a peace, by informing us how frequently they sent after Mons.
de Torcy, and Mons. Rouille, for a farther conference. But in the mean time, Mr. Horatio Walpole,
secretary to the Queen's plenipotentiaries, was dispatched over hither, to have those abortive
articles signed and ratified by Her Majesty at a venture, which was accordingly done. A piece
of management altogether absurd, and without example; contrived only to deceive our people
into a belief that a peace was intended, and to shew what great things the ministry designed to do.

But this hope expiring, upon the news that France had refused to sign those articles, all was
solved by recourse to the old topic of the French perfidiousness. We loaded them plentifully
with ignominious appellations; "they were a nation never to be trusted." The Parliament cheerfully
continued their supplies, and the war went on. The winter following began the second and last
session of the preceding Parliament, noted for the trial of Dr. Sacheverell, and the occasions
thereby given to the people to discover and exert their dispositions, very opposite to the
designs of those who were then in power. In the summer of one thousand seven hundred and ten,
ensued a gradual change of the ministry; and in the beginning of that winter the present Parliament
was called.

The King of France, whose real interests made him sincerely desirous of any tolerable peace,
found it impossible to treat upon equal conditions with either of the two maritime powers engaged
against him, because of the prevalency of factions in both, who acted in concert to their mutual
private advantage, although directly against the general dispositions of the people in either,
as well as against their several maxims of government. But upon the great turn of affairs and
councils here in England, the new Parliament and ministers acting from other motives, and upon
other principles, that Prince hoped an opportunity might arise of resuming his endeavours towards
a peace.

There was at this time in England a French ecclesiastic, called the Abbé Gaultier,[3] who had
resided several years in London, under the protection of some foreign ministers, in whose families
he used, upon occasion, to exercise his function of a priest. After the battle of Blenheim,
this gentleman went down to Nottingham, where several French prisoners of quality were kept,
to whom he rendered those offices of civility suitable to persons in their condition, which,
upon their return to France, they reported to his advantage. Among the rest, the Chevalier
de Croissy told his brother, the Marquis de Torcy, that whenever the French court would have
a mind to make overtures of peace with England, Mons. Gaultier might be very usefully employed
in handing them to the ministers here. This was no farther thought on at present. In the mean
time the war went on, and the conferences at The Hague and Gertruydenberg miscarried, by the
allies insisting upon such demands as they neither expected, nor perhaps desired, should be
granted.

[Footnote 3: See note prefixed to "A New Journey to Paris" in vol. v. of present edition. Gaultier,
although a priest, was nothing more than a superior spy in the pay of the French Court. He
had been chaplain to Tallard and the disgraced Count Gallas, and was a sort of protégé of the
Earl of Jersey; but his character does not bear very close scrutiny. The Duke of Berwick could
not have had any high opinion either of the man or his abilities, since in the "Mémoires de
Berwick" (vol. ii., p. 122, edit. 1780) he is thus referred to: "Sa naissance étoit toute des
plus ordinaires, et ses facultés à l'avenant, c'est à dire, très pauvre." St. John called Gaultier
his "Mercury," and De Torcy styled him "the Angel of Peace" (Torcy's "Memoires," vol. ii.,
p. 148, edition of 1828). [T.S.]]

Some time in July, one thousand seven hundred and ten, Mons. Gaultier received a letter from
the Marquis de Torcy, signifying, that a report being spread of Her Majesty's intentions to
change her ministry, to take Mr. Harley into her councils, and to dissolve her Parliament,
the Most Christian King thought it might be now a favourable conjuncture to offer new proposals
of a treaty: Mons. Gaultier was therefore directed to apply himself, in the Marquis's name,
either to the Duke of Shrewsbury, the Earl of Jersey, or Mr. Harley, and inform the French
court how such a proposition would be relished. Gaultier chose to deliver his message to the
second of those, who had been ambassador from the late king to France; but the Earl excused
himself from entering into particulars with a stranger, and a private person, who had no authority
for what he said, more than a letter from Mons. de Torcy. Gaultier offered to procure another
from that minister to the Earl himself; and did so, in a month after: but obtained no answer
till December following, when the Queen had made all necessary changes, and summoned a free
Parliament to her wishes. About the beginning of January, the abbé (after having procured his
dismission from Count Gallas, the emperor's envoy, at that time his protector) was sent to
Paris, to inform Mons. Torcy, that Her Majesty would be willing his master should resume the
treaty with Holland, provided the demands of England might be previously granted. Gaultier
came back, after a short stay, with a return to his message, that the Dutch had used the Most
Christian King and his ministers in such a manner, both at The Hague and Gertruydenberg, as
made that Prince resolve not to expose himself any more to the like treatment; that he therefore
chose to address himself to England, and was ready to make whatever offers Her Majesty could
reasonably expect, for the advantage of her own kingdoms, and the satisfaction of her allies.

After this message had been duly considered by the Queen and her ministers, Mons. Gaultier
was dispatched a second time to France, about the beginning of March, one thousand seven hundred
and ten-eleven, with an answer to the following purpose: "That since France had their particular
reasons for not beginning again to treat with Holland, England was willing to remove that difficulty,
and proposed it should be done in this manner: That France should send over hither the propositions
for a treaty, which should be transmitted by England to Holland, to be jointly treated on that
side of the water; but it was to be understood, that the same proposition formerly offered
to Holland, was to be made to England, or one not less advantageous to the allies; for although
England would enter most sincerely into such a treaty, and shew, in the course of it, the clearness
of their intentions; yet they could not, with honour, entertain a less beneficial proposal
than what was offered to the States."

That Prince, as well as his minister, Mons. de Torcy, either felt, or affected, so much resentment
of the usage the latter had met at The Hague and Gertruydenberg, that they appeared fully determined
against making any application to the States, where the same persons continued still in power,
of whose treatment they so heavily complained.[4]

[Footnote 4: There can be little doubt that De Torcy's resentment against the Dutch, as expressed
in the first of the propositions above cited, was an affected one, since it is well known that
the Dutch were, at the very time these propositions were sent to England, and even for some
time previously, engaged in separate overtures with the French Court. Indeed, according to
Prior ("History of his Own Time"), they had been so engaged ever since the breaking up of the
Gertruydenberg Conference; and when Prior arrived in France in August, 1711, he was shown three
letters written as from the Pensionary, but probably by Petecum, promising Louis every advantage
if the Conference so unhappily broken off at Gertruydenberg were renewed. "The negotiations
must be secret and separate," reported Prior, "His Most Christian Majesty need only name his
own terms." Swift knew of the existence of at least one of these letters, because he was very
anxious to obtain it "to get some particulars for my History," as he notes in his "Journal,"
"one letter of Petecum's showing the roguery of the Dutch." See also "Portland Manuscripts,"
vol. v., p. 34 et seq. [T.S.]]

They seemed altogether to distrust the inclination of that republic towards a peace; but at
the same time shewed a mighty complaisance to the English nation, and a desire to have Her
Majesty at the head of a treaty. This appears by the first overture in form sent from that
kingdom, and signed by Mons. de Torcy, on the twenty-second of April, N.S. one thousand seven
hundred and eleven, to the following effect:

"That as it could not be doubted but the King was in a condition of continuing the war with
honour, so it could not be looked on as a mark of weakness in His Majesty to break the silence
he had kept since the conferences at Gertruydenberg; and that, before the opening of the campaign,
he now gives farther proof of the desire he always had to procure the repose of Europe. But
after what he hath found, by experience, of the sentiments of those persons who now govern
the republic of Holland, and of their industry in rendering all negotiations without effect,
His Majesty will, for the public good, offer to the English nation those propositions, which
he thinks fit to make for terminating the war, and for settling the tranquillity of Europe
upon a solid foundation. It is with this view that he offers to enter into a treaty of peace,
founded on the following conditions.

"First, The English nation shall have real securities for carrying on their trade in Spain,
the Indies, and ports of the Mediterranean.

"Secondly, The King will consent to form a sufficient barrier in the Low Countries, for the
security of the republic of Holland; and this barrier shall be such as England shall agree
upon and approve; His Majesty promising, at the same time, an entire liberty and security to
the trade of the Dutch.

"Thirdly, All reasonable methods shall be thought on, with sincerity and truth, for giving
satisfaction to the allies of England and Holland.

"Fourthly, Whereas the affairs of the King of Spain are in so good a condition as to furnish
new expedients for putting an end to the disputes about that monarchy, and for settling it
to the satisfaction of the several parties concerned, all sincere endeavours shall be used
for surmounting the difficulties arisen upon this occasion; and the trade and interest of all
parties engaged in the present war shall be secured.

"Fifthly, The conferences, in order to treat of a peace upon these conditions, shall be immediately
opened; and the plenipotentiaries, whom the King shall name to assist thereat, shall treat
with those of England and Holland, either alone, or in conjunction with those of their allies,
as England shall choose.

"Sixthly, His Majesty proposes the towns of Aix la Chapelle or Liège, for the place where the
plenipotentiaries shall assemble, leaving the choice likewise to England of either of the said
towns, wherein to treat a general peace."

These overtures, although expressing much confidence in the ministry here, great deference
to the Queen, and displeasure against the Dutch, were immediately transmitted by Her Majesty's
command to her ambassador in Holland, with orders, that they should be communicated to the
pensionary. The Abbé Gaultier was desired to signify this proceeding to the Marquis de Torcy;
at the same time to let that minister understand, that some of the above articles ought to
be explained. The Lord Raby, now Earl of Stafford, was directed to tell the Pensionary, that
Her Majesty being resolved, in making peace as in making war, to act in perfect concert with
the States, would not lose a moment in transmitting to him a paper of this importance: that
the Queen earnestly desired, that the secret might be kept among as few as possible; and that
she hoped the Pensionary would advise upon this occasion with no person whatsoever, except
such, as by the constitution of that government, are unavoidably necessary: that the terms
of the several propositions were indeed too general; but, however, they contained an offer
to treat: and that, although there appeared an air of complaisance to England through the whole
paper, and the contrary to Holland, yet this could have no ill consequences, as long as the
Queen and the States took care to understand each other, and to act with as little reserve
as became two powers, so nearly allied in interest; which rule, on the part of Britain, should
be inviolably observed. It was signified likewise to the Pensionary, that the Duke of Marlborough
had no communication of this affair from England, and that it was supposed he would have none
from The Hague.

After these proposals had been considered in Holland, the ambassador was directed to send back
the opinion of the Dutch ministers upon them. The court here was, indeed, apprehensive, that
the Pensionary would be alarmed at the whole frame of Monsieur de Torcy's paper, and particularly
at these expressions, "That the English shall have real securities for their trade, &c." and
"that the barrier for the States-General shall be such as England shall agree upon and approve."
It was natural to think, that the fear which the Dutch would conceive of our obtaining advantageous
terms for Britain, might put them upon trying underhand for themselves, and endeavouring to
overreach us in the management of the peace, as they had hitherto done in that of the war:
the ambassador was therefore cautioned to be very watchful in discovering any workings, which
might tend that way.

When the Lord Raby was first sent to The Hague, the Duke of Marlborough, and Lord Townshend,
had, for very obvious reasons, used their utmost endeavours to involve him in as many difficulties
as they could; upon which, and other accounts, needless to mention, it was thought proper,
that his Grace, then in Flanders, should not be let into the secret of this affair.

The proposal of Aix or Liège for a place of treaty, was only a farther mark of their old discontent
against Holland, to shew they would not name any town which belonged to the States.

The Pensionary having consulted those who had been formerly employed in the negotiations of
peace, and enjoined them the utmost secrecy, to avoid the jealousy of the foreign ministers
there, desired the ambassador to return Her Majesty thanks, for the obliging manner of communicating
the French overtures, for the confidence she placed in the States, and for her promise of making
no step towards a peace, but in concert with them, assuring her of the like on their part:
that although the States endeavoured to hide it from the enemy, they were as weary of the war
as we, and very heartily desirous of a good and lasting peace, as well as ready to join in
any method, by which Her Majesty should think proper to obtain it: that the States looked upon
these propositions as very dark and general; and they observed how the enemy would create jealousies
between the Queen, their republic, and the other allies; but they were satisfied it would have
no effect, and relied entirely on the justness and prudence of Her Majesty, who they doubted
not, would make the French explain themselves more particularly in the several points of their
proposals, and send a plan of the particular conditions whereupon they would make a peace:
after which, the States would be ready, either to join with Her Majesty, or to make their objections,
and were prepared to bring with them all the facility imaginable, towards promoting so good a work.

This is the sum of the verbal answer made by the Pensionary, upon communicating to him the
French proposals; and I have chosen to set it down, rather than transcribe the other given
to the ambassador some days after, which was more in form, and to the same purpose, but shorter,
and in my opinion not so well discovering the true disposition of the Dutch ministers.

For after the Queen had transmitted the French overtures to Holland, and the States found Her
Majesty was bent in earnest upon the thoughts of a peace, they began to cast about how to get
the negotiation into their own hands. They knew that whatever power received the first proposals,
would be wise enough to stipulate something for themselves, as they had done in their own case,
both at The Hague and Gertruydenberg, where they carved as they pleased, without any regard
to the interests of their nearest allies. For this reason, while they endeavoured to amuse
the British court with expostulations upon the several preliminaries sent from France, Monsieur
Petecum, a forward meddling agent of Holstein, who had resided some years in Holland, negotiated
with Heinsius, the Grand Pensionary, as well as with Vanderdussen and Buys, about restoring
the conferences between France and that republic, broke off in Gertruydenberg. Pursuant to
which, about the end of May, N.S. one thousand seven hundred and eleven, Petecum wrote to the
Marquis de Torcy, with the privity of the Pensionary, and probably of the other two. The substance
of his letter was to inform the Marquis, that things might easily be disposed, so as to settle
a correspondence between that crown and the republic, in order to renew the treaty of peace.
That this could be done with the greater secrecy, because Monsieur Heinsius, by virtue of his
oath as Pensionary, might keep any affair private as long as he thought necessary, and was
not obliged to communicate it, until he believed things were ripe; and as long as he concealed
it from his masters, he was not bound to discover it, either to the ministers of the Emperor,
or those of her British Majesty. That since England thought it proper for King Charles to continue
the whole campaign in Catalonia, (though he should be chosen emperor) in order to support the
war in Spain, it was necessary for France to treat in the most secret manner with the States,
who were not now so violently, as formerly, against having Philip on the Spanish throne, upon
certain conditions for securing their trade, but were jealous of England's design to fortify
some trading towns in Spain for themselves. That Heinsius, extremely desired to get out of
the war for some reasons, which he (Petecum) was not permitted to tell; and that Vanderdussen
and Buys were impatient to have the negotiations with France once more set on foot, which,
if Monsieur Torcy thought fit to consent to, Petecum engaged that the States would determine
to settle the preliminaries, in the midway between Paris and The Hague, with whatever ministers
the Most Christian King should please to employ. But Monsieur Torcy refused this overture,
and in his answer to Monsieur Petecum, assigned for the reason the treatment his master's former
proposals had met with at The Hague and Gertruydenberg, from the ministers of Holland. Britain
and Holland seemed pretty well agreed, that those proposals were too loose and imperfect to
be a foundation for entering upon a general treaty; and Monsieur Gaultier was desired to signify
to the French court, that it was expected they should explain themselves more particularly
on the several articles.

But in the mean time the Queen was firmly resolved, that the interests of her own kingdoms
should not be neglected at this juncture, as they had formerly twice been, while the Dutch
were principal managers of a negotiation with France. Her Majesty had given frequent and early
notice to the States, of the general disposition of her people towards a peace, of her own
inability to continue the war upon the old foot, under the disadvantage of unequal quotas,
and the universal backwardness of her allies. She had likewise informed them of several advances
made to her on the side of France, which she had refused to hearken to, till she had consulted
with those, her good friends and confederates, and heard their opinion on that subject: but
the Dutch, who apprehended nothing more than to see Britain at the head of a treaty, were backward
and sullen, disliked all proposals by the Queen's intervention, and said it was a piece of
artifice of France to divide the allies; besides, they knew the ministry was young, and the
opposite faction had given them assurances, that the people of England would never endure a
peace without Spain, nor the men in power dare to attempt it, after the resolutions of one
House of Parliament to the contrary. But, in the midst of this unwillingness to receive any
overtures from France by the Queen's hands, the Dutch ministers were actually engaged in a
correspondence with that court, where they urged our inability to begin a treaty, by reason
of those factions which themselves had inflamed, and were ready to commence a negotiation upon
much easier terms than what they supposed we demanded. For not to mention the Duke of Lorraine's
interposition in behalf of Holland, which France absolutely refused to accept; the letters
sent from the Dutch to that court, were shewn some months after to a British minister there,[5]
which gave much weight to Monsieur de Torcy's insinuations; that he knew where to meet with
more compliance, if the necessity of affairs should force him to it, by our refusal. And the
violence of the States against our entertaining of that correspondence, was only because they
knew theirs would never be accepted, at least till ours were thrown off.

[Footnote 5: Matthew Prior. See note, ante, p. 55. [T.S.]] The Queen, sensible of all this,
resolved to provide for her own kingdoms; and having therefore prepared such demands for her
principal allies, as might be a ground for proceeding to a general treaty, without pretending
to adjust their several interests, she resolved to stipulate in a particular manner the advantage
of Britain: the following preliminary demands were accordingly drawn up, in order to be transmitted
to France.

"Great Britain will not enter into any negotiation of peace, otherwise than upon these conditions,
obtained beforehand.

"That the union of the two crowns of France and Spain shall be prevented: that satisfaction
shall be given to all the allies, and trade settled and maintained.

"If France be disposed to treat upon this view, it is not to be doubted that the following
propositions will be found reasonable.

"A barrier shall be formed in the Low Countries for the States-General; and their trade shall
be secured.

"A barrier likewise shall be formed for the Empire.

"The pretensions of all the allies, founded upon former treaties, shall be regulated and determined
to their general satisfaction.

"In order to make a more equal balance of power in Italy, the dominions and territories, which
in the beginning of the present war belonged to the Duke of Savoy, and are now in the possession
of France, shall be restored to his Royal Highness; and such other places in Italy shall be
yielded to him, as will be found necessary and agreeable to the sense of former treaties made
with this prince.

"As to Great Britain in particular, the succession to the crown of the kingdoms, according
to the present establishment, shall be acknowledged.

"A new treaty of commerce between Great Britain and France shall be made, after the most just
and reasonable manner.

"Dunkirk shall be demolished.

"Gibraltar and Port-Mahon shall remain in the hands of the present possessors.

"The English shall have the Assiento in the same manner the French now enjoy it; and such places
in the Spanish West Indies shall be assigned to those concerned in this traffic, for the refreshment
and sale of their negroes, as shall be found necessary and convenient.

"All advantages, rights, and privileges already granted, and which may hereafter be granted
by Spain to the subjects of France, or to any other nation whatsoever, shall be equally granted
to the subjects of Great Britain.

"And for better securing the British trade in the Spanish West Indies, certain places to be
named in the treaty of peace, shall be put into possession of the English.

"Newfoundland, with the Bay and Straits of Hudson, shall be entirely restored to the English;
and Great Britain and France shall severally keep and possess all those countries and territories
in North America, which each of the said nations shall be in possession of at the time when
the ratification of this treaty shall be published in those parts of the world.

"These demands, and all other proceedings between Great Britain and France, shall be kept inviolably
secret, until they are published by the mutual consent of both parties."

The last article was not only intended for avoiding, if possible, the jealousy of the Dutch,
but to prevent the clamours of the abettors here at home, who, under the pretended fears of
our doing injustice to the Dutch, by acting without the privity of that republic, in order
to make a separate peace, would be ready to drive on the worst designs against the Queen and
ministry, in order to recover the power they had lost.

In June, one thousand seven hundred and eleven, Mr. Prior, a person of great distinction, not
only on account of his wit, but for his abilities in the management of affairs, and who had
been formerly employed at the French court, was dispatched thither by Her Majesty with the
foregoing demands. This gentleman was received at Versailles with great civility. The King
declared, that no proceeding, in order to a general treaty, would be so agreeable to him as
by the intervention of England; and that His Majesty, being desirous to contribute with all
his power towards the repose of Europe, did answer to the demands which had been made,

"That he would consent freely and sincerely to all just and reasonable methods, for hindering
the crowns of France and Spain from being ever united under the same prince; His Majesty being
persuaded, that such an excess of power would be as contrary to the general good and repose
of Europe, as it was opposite to the will of the late Catholic King Charles the Second. He
said his intention was, that all parties in the present war should find their reasonable satisfaction
in the intended treaty of peace; and that trade should be settled and maintained for the future,
to the advantage of those nations which formerly possessed it.

"That as the King will exactly observe the conditions of peace, whenever it shall be concluded,
and as the object he proposeth to himself, is to secure the frontiers of his own kingdom, without
giving any sort of disturbance to his neighbours, he promiseth to agree, that by the future
treaty of peace, the Dutch shall be put into possession of all such fortified places as shall
be specified in the said treaty to serve for a barrier to that republic, against all attempts
on the side of France. He engages likewise to give all necessary securities, for removing the
jealousies raised among the German princes of His Majesty's designs.

"That when the conferences, in order to a general treaty, shall be formed, all the pretensions
of the several princes and states engaged in the present war, shall be fairly and amicably
discussed; nor shall any thing be omitted, which may regulate and determine them to the satisfaction
of all parties.

"That, pursuant to the demands made by England, His Majesty promiseth to restore to the Duke
of Savoy these demesnes and territories, which belonged to that prince at the beginning of
this war, and which His Majesty is now in possession of; and the King consents further, that
such other places in Italy shall be yielded to the Duke of Savoy, as shall be found necessary,
according to the sense of those treaties made between the said Duke and his allies.

"That the King's sentiments of the present government of Great Britain, the open declaration
he had made in Holland of his resolution to treat of peace, by applications to the English;
the assurances he had given of engaging the King of Spain to leave Gibraltar in their hands
(all which are convincing proofs of his perfect esteem for a nation still in war with him);
leave no room to doubt of His Majesty's inclination to give England all securities and advantages
for their trade, which they can reasonably demand. But as His Majesty cannot persuade himself,
that a government, so clear-sighted as ours, will insist upon conditions which must absolutely
destroy the trade of France and Spain, as well as that of all other nations of Europe, he thinks
the demands made by Great Britain may require a more particular discussion.

"That, upon this foundation, the King thought the best way of advancing and perfecting a negotiation,
the beginning of which he had seen with so much satisfaction, would be to send into England
a person instructed in his intention, and authorized by him to agree upon securities for settling
the trade of the subjects of England; and those particular advantages to be stipulated in their
favour, without destroying the trade of the French and Spaniards, or of other nations in Christendom.

"That therefore His Majesty had charged the person chosen for this commission, to answer the
other articles of the memorial given him by Mr. Prior, the secret of which should be exactly
observed."

Mons. de Torcy had, for some years past, used all his endeavours to incline his master towards
a peace, pursuant to the maxim of his uncle Colbert, "That a long war was not for the interest
of France." It was for this reason the King made choice of him in the conferences at The Hague;
the bad success whereof, although it filled him with resentments against the Dutch, did not
alter his opinion: but he was violently opposed by a party both in the court and kingdom, who
pretended to fear he would sacrifice the glory of the prince and country by too large concessions;
or perhaps would rather wish that the first offers should have been still made to the Dutch,
as a people more likely to be less solicitous about the interest of Britain, than Her Majesty
would certainly be for theirs: and the particular design of Mr. Prior was to find out, whether
that minister had credit enough with his prince, and a support from others in power, sufficient
to overrule the faction against peace.

Mr. Prior's journey[6] could not be kept a secret, as the court here at first seemed to intend
it. He was discovered at his return by an officer of the port at Dover, where he landed, after
six weeks absence; upon which the Dutch Gazettes and English newspapers were full of speculations.

[Footnote 6: See Swift's "A New Journey to Paris" (vol. v. of this edition, pp. 187-205). [W.S.J.]]

At the same time with Mr. Prior there arrived from France Mons. Mesnager, knight of the order
of St. Michael, and one of the council of trade to the Most Christian King. His commission
was, in general, empowering him to treat with the minister of any prince engaged in the war
against his master. In his first conferences with the Queen's ministers, he pretended orders
to insist, that Her Majesty should enter upon particular engagements in several articles, which
did not depend upon her, but concerned only the interest of the allies reciprocally with those
of the Most Christian King; whereas the negotiation had begun upon this principle, that France
should consent to adjust the interests of Great Britain in the first place, whereby Her Majesty
would be afterwards enabled, by her good offices on all sides, to facilitate the general peace.
The Queen resolved never to depart from this principle; but was absolutely determined to remit
the particular interests of the allies to general conferences, where she would do the utmost
in her power to procure the repose of Europe, and the satisfaction of all parties. It was plain,
France could run no hazard by this proceeding, because the preliminary articles would have
no force before a general peace was signed: therefore it was not doubted but Mons. Mesnager
would have orders to waive this new pretension, and go on in treating upon that foot which
was at first proposed. In short, the ministers required a positive and speedy answer to the
articles in question, since they contained only such advantages and securities as Her Majesty
thought she had a right to require from any prince whatsoever, to whom the dominions of Spain
should happen to fall.

The particular demands of Britain were formed into eight articles; to which Mons. Mesnager,
having transmitted them to his court and received new powers from thence, had orders to give
his master's consent, by way of answers to the several points, to be obligatory only after
a general peace. These demands, together with the answers of the French King, were drawn up
and signed by Mons. Mesnager, and Her Majesty's two principal secretaries of state; whereof
I shall here present an extract to the reader.

In the preamble the Most Christian King sets forth, "That being particularly informed by the
last memorial which the British ministers delivered to Mons. Mesnager, of the dispositions
of this crown to facilitate a general peace, to the satisfaction of the several parties concerned;
and His Majesty finding, in effect, as the said memorial declares, that he runs no hazard by
engaging himself in the manner there expressed, since the preliminary articles will be of no
force, until the signing of the general peace; and being sincerely desirous to advance, to
the utmost of his power, the repose of Europe, especially by a way so agreeable as the interposition
of a Princess, whom so many ties of blood ought to unite to him, and whose sentiments for the
public tranquillity cannot be doubted; His Majesty, moved by these considerations, hath ordered
Mons. Mesnager, knight, &c. to give the following answers, in writing, to the articles contained
in the memorial transmitted to him, intituled, 'Preliminary Demands for Great Britain in particular.'"

The articles were these that follow.

"First, The succession to the crown to be acknowledged, according to the present establishment.

"Thirdly, Dunkirk to be demolished.

"Fourthly, Gibraltar and Port-Mahon to continue in the hands of those who now possess them.

"Fifthly, The Assiento (or liberty of selling negroes to the Spanish West Indies) to be granted
to the English, in as full a manner as the French possess it at present; and such places in
the said West Indies to be assigned to the persons concerned in this trade, for the refreshment
and sale of their negroes, as shall be found necessary and convenient.

"Sixthly, Whatever advantages, privileges, and rights are already, or may hereafter be, granted
by Spain to the subjects of France, or any other nation, shall be equally granted to the subjects
of Great Britain.

"Seventhly, For better protecting their trade in the Spanish West Indies, the English shall
be put into possession of such places as shall be named in the treaty of peace.

"Or, as an equivalent for this article, that the Assiento be granted to Britain for the term
of thirty years.

"That the isle of St. Christopher's be likewise secured to the English.

"That the advantages and exemption from duties, promised by Monsieur Mesnager, which he affirms
will amount to fifteen per cent. upon all goods of the growth and manufacture of Great Britain,
be effectually allowed.

"That whereas, on the side of the river of Plate, the English are not in possession of any
colony, a certain extent of territory be allowed them on the said river, for refreshing and
keeping their negroes, till they are sold to the Spaniards; subject, nevertheless, to the inspection
of an officer appointed by Spain.

The six first articles were allowed without any difficulty, except that about Dunkirk, where
France was to have an equivalent, to be settled in a general treaty.

Difficulty arising upon the seventh article, the proposed equivalent was allowed instead thereof.

The last article was referred to the general treaty of peace, only the French insisted to have
the power of fishing for cod, and drying them on the island of Newfoundland.

These articles were to be looked upon as conditions, which the Most Christian King consented
to allow; and whenever a general peace should be signed, they were to be digested into the
usual form of a treaty, to the satisfaction of both crowns.

The Queen having thus provided for the security and advantage of her kingdoms, whenever a peace
should be made, and upon terms no way interfering with the interest of her allies; the next
thing in order, was to procure from France such preliminary articles, as might be a ground
upon which to commence a general treaty. These were adjusted, and signed the same day with
the former; and having been delivered to the several ministers residing here from the powers
in alliance with England, were quickly made public. But the various constructions and censures
which passed upon them, have made it necessary to give the reader the following transcript:

"The King being willing to contribute all that is in his power, to the re-establishing of the
general peace. His Majesty declares,

"I. That he will acknowledge the Queen of Great Britain in that quality, as also the succession
of that crown, according to the settlement,

"II. That he will freely, and bonâ fide, consent to the taking all just and reasonable measures,
for hindering that the crowns of France and Spain may ever be united on the head of the same
prince; His Majesty being persuaded, that this excess of power would be contrary to the good
and quiet of Europe.

"III. The King's intention is, that all the parties engaged in the present war, without excepting
any of them, may find their reasonable satisfaction in the treaty of peace, which shall be
made: That commerce may be re-established and maintained for the future, to the advantage of
Great Britain, of Holland, and of the other nations, who have been accustomed to exercise commerce.

"IV. As the King will likewise maintain exactly the observance of the peace, when it shall
be concluded, and the object, the King proposes to himself, being to secure the frontiers of
his kingdom, without disturbing in any manner whatever the neighbouring states, he promises
to agree, by the treaty which shall be made, that the Dutch shall be put in possession of the
fortified places, which shall be mentioned, in the Netherlands, to serve hereafter for a barrier;
which may secure the quiet of the republic of Holland against any enterprise from the part
of France.

"V. The King consents likewise, that a secure and convenient barrier should be formed for the
empire, and for the house of Austria.

"VI. Notwithstanding Dunkirk cost the King very great sums, as well to purchase it, as to fortify
it; and that it is further necessary to be at very considerable expense for razing the works.
His Majesty is willing however to engage to cause them to be demolished, immediately after
the conclusion of the peace, on condition, that, for the fortifications of that place, a proper
equivalent, that may content him, be given him: And, as England cannot furnish that equivalent,
the discussion of it shall be referred to the conferences to be held for the negotiation of
the peace.

"VII. When the conferences for the negotiation of the peace shall be formed, all the pretensions
of the princes and states, engaged in the present war, shall be therein discussed bonâ fide,
and amicably: And nothing shall be omitted to regulate and terminate them, to the satisfaction
of all the parties.

"MESNAGER."

These overtures are founded upon the eighth article of the Grand Alliance, made in one thousand
seven hundred and one; wherein are contained the conditions, without which a peace is not to
be made; and whoever compares both, will find the preliminaries to reach every point proposed
in that article, which those who censured them at home, if they spoke their thoughts, did not
understand: for nothing can be plainer, than what the public hath often been told, that the
recovery of Spain from the house of Bourbon was a thing never imagined, when the war began,
but a just and reasonable satisfaction to the Emperor. Much less ought such a condition to
be held necessary at present, not only because it is allowed on all hands to be impracticable,
but likewise because, by the changes in the Austrian and Bourbon families, it would not be
safe: neither did those, who were loudest in blaming the French preliminaries, know any thing
of the advantages privately stipulated for Britain, whose interests, they assured us, were
all made a sacrifice to the corruption or folly of the managers; and therefore, because the
opposers of peace have been better informed by what they have since heard and seen, they have
changed their battery, and accused the ministers for betraying the Dutch.

The Lord Raby, Her Majesty's ambassador at The Hague, having made a short journey to England,
where he was created Earl of Strafford, went back to Holland about the beginning of October,
one thousand seven hundred and eleven, with the above preliminaries, in order to communicate
them to the Pensionary, and other ministers of the States. The Earl was instructed to let them
know, "That the Queen had, according to their desire, returned an answer to the first propositions
signed by Mons. Torcy, signifying, that the French offers were thought, both by Her Majesty
and the States, neither so particular nor so full as they ought to be; and insisting to have
a distinct project formed, of such a peace as the Most Christian King would be willing to conclude:
that this affair having been for some time transacted by papers, and thereby subject to delays,
Mons. Mesnager was at length sent over by France, and had signed those preliminaries now communicated
to them: that the several articles did not, indeed, contain such particular concessions as
France must and will make in the course of a treaty; but that, however, Her Majesty thought
them a sufficient foundation whereon to open the general conferences.

"That Her Majesty was unwilling to be charged with determining the several interests of her
allies, and therefore contented herself with such general offers as might include all the particular
demands, proper to be made during the treaty; where the confederates must resolve to adhere
firmly together, in order to obtain from the enemy the utmost that could be hoped for, in the
present circumstances of affairs; which rule, Her Majesty assured the States, she would, on
her part, firmly observe."

If the ministers of Holland should express any uneasiness, that Her Majesty may have settled
the interests of her own kingdoms, in a future peace, by any private agreement, the ambassador
was ordered to say, "That the Queen had hitherto refused to have the treaty carried on in her
own kingdom, and would continue to do so, unless they (the Dutch) constrained her to take another
measure: That by these means the States, and the rest of the allies, would have the opportunity
of treating and adjusting their different pretensions; which Her Majesty would promote with
all the zeal she had shewn for the common good, and the particular advantage of that republic
(as they must do her the justice to confess), in the whole course of her reign: That the Queen
had made no stipulation for herself, which might clash with the interests of Holland; and that
the articles to be inserted in a future treaty, for the benefit of Britain, were, for the most
part, such as contained advantages, which must either be continued to the enemy, or be obtained
by Her Majesty; but, however, that no concession should tempt her to hearken to a peace, unless
her good friends and allies the States General had all reasonable satisfaction, as to their
trade and barrier, as well as in all other respects."

After these assurances given in the Queen's name, the Earl was to insinuate, "That Her Majesty
should have just reason to be offended, and to think the proceeding between her and the States
very unequal, if they should pretend to have any further uneasiness upon this head: That being
determined to accept no advantages to herself, repugnant to their interests, nor any peace,
without their reasonable satisfaction, the figure she had made during the whole course of the
war, and the part she had acted, superior to any of the allies, who were more concerned in
danger and interest, might justly entitle her to settle the concerns of Great Britain, before
she would consent to a general negotiation."

If the States should object the engagements the Queen was under, by treaties, of making no
peace but in concert with them, or the particular obligations of the Barrier Treaty, the ambassador
was to answer, "That, as to the former, Her Majesty had not in any sort acted contrary thereto;
That she was so far from making a peace without their consent, as to declare her firm resolution
not to make it without their satisfaction; and that what had passed between France and her,
amounted to no more than an introduction to a general treaty." As to the latter, the Earl had
orders to represent very earnestly, "How much it was even for the interest of Holland itself,
rather to compound the advantage of the Barrier Treaty, than to insist upon the whole, which
the house of Austria, and several other allies, would never consent to: That nothing could
be more odious to the people of England than many parts of this treaty; which would have raised
universal indignation, if the utmost care had not been taken to quiet the minds of those who
were acquainted with the terms of that guaranty, and to conceal them from those who were not:
That it was absolutely necessary to maintain a good harmony between both nations, without which
it would be impossible at any time to form a strength for reducing an exorbitant power, or
preserving the balance of Europe: from whence it followed, that it could not be the true interest
of either country to insist upon any conditions, which might give just apprehension to the other.

"That France had proposed Utrecht, Nimeguen, Aix, or Liège, wherein to hold the general treaty;
and Her Majesty was ready to send her plenipotentiaries, to whichever of those towns the States
should approve."

If the imperial ministers, or those of the other allies, should object against the preliminaries
as no sufficient ground for opening the conferences, and insist that France should consent
to such articles as were signed on the part of the allies in the year one thousand seven hundred
and nine, the Earl of Strafford was in answer directed to insinuate, "That the French might
have probably been brought to explain themselves more particularly, had they not perceived
the uneasiness, impatience, and jealousy among the allies, during our transactions with that
court." However, he should declare to them, in the Queen's name, "That if they were determined
to accept of peace upon no terms inferior to what was formerly demanded, Her Majesty was ready
to concur with them; but would no longer bear those disproportions of expense, yearly increased
upon her, nor the deficiency of the confederates in every part of the war: That it was therefore
incumbent upon them to furnish, for the future, such quotas of ships and forces as they were
now wanting in, and to increase their expense, while Her Majesty reduced hers to a reasonable
and just proportion."

That if the ministers of Vienna and Holland should urge their inability upon this head, the
Queen insisted, "They ought to comply with her in war or in peace; Her Majesty desiring nothing,
as to the first, but what they ought to perform, and what is absolutely necessary: and as to
the latter, that she had done, and would continue to do, the utmost in her power towards obtaining
such a peace as might be to the satisfaction of all her allies."

Some days after the Earl of Stafford's departure to Holland, Mons. Buys, pensionary of Amsterdam,
arrived here from thence with instructions from his masters, to treat upon the subject of the
French preliminaries, and the methods for carrying on the war. In his first conference with
a committee of council, he objected against all the articles, as too general and uncertain;
and against some of them, as prejudicial. He said, "The French promising that trade should
be re-established and maintained for the future, was meant in order to deprive the Dutch of
their tariff of one thousand six hundred and sixty-four; for the plenipotentiaries of that
crown would certainly expound the word rétablir, to signify no more than restoring the trade
of the States to the condition it was in immediately before the commencement of the present
war." He said, "That in the article of Dunkirk, the destruction of the harbour was not mentioned;
and that the fortifications were only to be razed upon condition of an equivalent, which might
occasion a difference between Her Majesty and the States, since Holland would think it hard
to have a town less in their barrier for the demolition of Dunkirk; and England would complain
to have this thorn continue in their side, for the sake of giving one town more to the Dutch."

Lastly, he objected, "That where the French promised effectual methods should be taken to prevent
the union of France and Spain under the same king, they offered nothing at all for the cession
of Spain, which was the most important point of the war.

"For these reasons, Mons. Buys hoped Her Majesty would alter her measures, and demand specific
articles, upon which the allies might debate whether they would consent to a negotiation or no."

The Queen, who looked upon all these difficulties, raised about the method of treating, as
endeavours to wrest the negotiation out of her hands, commanded the lords of the committee
to let Mons. Buys know, "That the experience she formerly had of proceeding by particular preliminaries
towards a general treaty, gave her no encouragement to repeat the same method any more: That
such a preliminary treaty must be negotiated either by some particular allies, or by all. The
first, Her Majesty could never suffer, since she would neither take upon her to settle the
interests of others, nor submit that others should settle those of her own kingdoms. As to
the second, it was liable to Mons. Buys's objection, because the ministers of France would
have as fair an opportunity of sowing division among the allies, when they were all assembled
upon a preliminary treaty, as when the conferences were open for a negotiation of peace: That
this method could therefore have no other effect than to delay the treaty, without any advantage:
That Her Majesty was heartily disposed, both then and during the negotiation, to insist on
every thing necessary for securing the barrier and commerce of the States; and therefore hoped
the conferences might be opened, without farther difficulties.

"That Her Majesty did not only consent, but desire to have a plan settled for carrying on the
war, as soon as the negotiation of peace should begin; but expected to have the burthen more
equally laid, and more agreeable to treaties; and would join with the States in pressing the
allies to perform their parts, as she had endeavoured to animate them by her example."

Mons. Buys seemed to know little of his masters' mind, and pretended he had no power to conclude
upon any thing.[1] Her Majesty's minister proposed to him an alliance between the two nations,
to subsist after a peace. To this he hearkened very readily, and offered to take the matter
ad referendum, having authority to do no more. His intention was, that he might appear to negotiate,
in order to gain time to pick out, if possible, the whole secret of the transactions between
Britain and France; to disclose nothing himself, nor bind his masters to any conditions; to
seek delays till the Parliament met, and then observe what turn it took, and what would be
the issue of those frequent cabals between himself and some other foreign ministers, in conjunction
with the chief leaders of the discontented faction.

[Footnote 1: Buys's mission seemed to have been to act on behalf of the States General for
the purpose of preventing England obtaining any commercial advantage which the States did not
share, and for causing delays. He certainly had no powers to treat definitely, and Swift's
remark is emphasized by the statement in the Bolingbroke Correspondence (vol. ii. p. 25) about
him, he could "only speak as Monsieur Buys." [T.S.]]

The Dutch hoped, that the clamours raised against the proceedings of the Queen's ministers
towards a peace, would make the Parliament disapprove what had been done; whereby the States
would be at the head of the negotiation, which the Queen did not think fit to have any more
in their hands, where it had miscarried twice already; although Prince Eugene himself owned,
"that France was then disposed to conclude a peace upon such conditions, as it was not worth
the life of a grenadier to refuse them." As to insisting upon specific preliminaries, Her Majesty
thought her own method much better, for each ally, in the course of the negotiation, to advance
and manage his own pretensions, wherein she would support and assist them, rather than for
two ministers of one ally to treat solely with the enemy, and report what they pleased to the
rest, as was practised by the Dutch at Gertruydenberg.

One part of Mons. Buys's instructions was to desire the Queen not to be so far amused by a
treaty of peace, as to neglect her preparation for war against the next campaign. Her Majesty,
who was firmly resolved against submitting any longer to that unequal burthen of expense she
had hitherto lain under, commanded Mr. Secretary St. John to debate the matter with that minister,
who said he had no power to treat; only insisted, that his masters had fully done their part,
and that nothing but exhortations could be used to prevail on the other allies to act with
greater vigour.

On the other side, the Queen refused to concert any plan for the prosecution of the war, till
the States would join with her in agreeing to open the conferences of peace; which therefore,
by Mons. Buys's application to them, was accordingly done, by a resolution taken in Holland
upon the twenty first of November, one thousand seven hundred and eleven, NS.

About this time the Count de Gallas[7] was forbid the court, by order from the Queen, who sent
him word, that she looked upon him no longer as a public minister.

[Footnote 7: The Austrian ambassador [T.S.]]

This gentleman thought fit to act a very dishonourable part here in England, altogether inconsistent
with the character he bore of envoy from the late and present emperors, two princes under the
strictest ties of gratitude to the Queen, especially the latter, who had then the title of
King of Spain. Count Gallas, about the end of August, one thousand seven hundred and eleven,
with the utmost privacy, dispatched an Italian, one of his clerks, to Frankfort, where the
Earl of Peterborough was then expected. This man was instructed to pass for a Spaniard, and
insinuate himself into the Earl's service, which he accordingly did, and gave constant information
to the last emperor's secretary at Frankfort of all he could gather up in his lordship's family,
as well as copies of several letters he had transcribed. It was likewise discovered that Gallas
had, in his dispatches to the present emperor, then in Spain, represented the Queen and her
ministers as not to be confided in, that when Her Majesty had dismissed the Earl of Sunderland,
she promised to proceed no farther in the change of her servants, yet soon after turned them
all out, and thereby ruined the public credit, as well as abandoned Spain, that the present
ministers wanted the abilities and good dispositions of the former, were persons of ill designs,
and enemies to the common cause, and he (Gallas) could not trust them. In his letters to Count
Zinzendorf[8] he said, "That Mr. Secretary St John complained of the house of Austria's backwardness,
only to make the King of Spain odious to England, and the people here desirous of a peace,
although it were ever so bad one," to prevent which, Count Gallas drew up a memorial which
he intended to give the Queen, and transmitted a draught of it to Zinzendorf for his advice
and approbation. This memorial, among other great promises to encourage the continuance of
the war, proposed the detaching a good body of troops from Hungary to serve in Italy or Spain,
as the Queen should think fit.

[Footnote 8: The Austrian envoy at The Hague, characterized by Mr Walter Sichel as "a martyr
to etiquette, and devoured by zeal for the Holy Roman Empire" ("Bolingbroke and his Times,"
p 392)  [T.S.]]

Zinzendorf thought this too bold a step, without consulting the Emperor: to which Gallas replied,
that his design was only to engage the Queen to go on with the war; that Zinzendorf knew how
earnestly the English and Dutch had pressed to have these troops from Hungary, and therefore
they ought to be promised, in order to quiet those two nations, after which several ways might
be found to elude that promise; and, in the mean time, the great point would be gained of bringing
the English to declare for continuing the war: that the Emperor might afterwards excuse himself,
by the apprehension of a war in Hungary, or of that between the Turks and Muscovites: that
if these excuses should be at an end, a detachment of one or two regiments might be sent, and
the rest deferred, by pretending want of money; by which the Queen would probably be brought
to maintain some part of those troops, and perhaps the whole body. He added, that this way
of management was very common among the allies; and gave for an example, the forces which the
Dutch had promised for the service of Spain, but were never sent; with several other instances
of the same kind, which he said might be produced.

Her Majesty, who had long suspected that Count Gallas was engaged in these and the like practices,
having at last received authentic proofs of this whole intrigue, from original letters, and
the voluntary confession of those who were principally concerned in carrying it on, thought
it necessary to show her resentment, by refusing the count any more access to her person or
her court.

Although the Queen, as it hath been already observed, was resolved to open the conferences
upon the general preliminaries, yet she thought it would very much forward the peace to know
what were the utmost concessions which France would make to the several allies, but especially
to the States General and the Duke of Savoy: therefore, while Her Majesty was pressing the
former to agree to a general treaty, the Abbé Gaultier was sent to France with a memorial,
to desire that the Most Christian King would explain himself upon those preliminaries, particularly
with relation to Savoy and Holland, whose satisfaction the Queen had most at heart, as well
from her friendship to both these powers, as because, if she might engage to them that their
just pretensions would be allowed, few difficulties would remain, of any moment, to retard
the general peace.

The French answer to this memorial contained several schemes and proposals for the satisfaction
of each ally, coming up very near to what Her Majesty and her ministers thought reasonable.
The greatest difficulties seemed to be about the Elector of Bavaria, for whose interests France
appeared to be as much concerned, as the Queen was for those of the Duke of Savoy: however,
those were judged not very hard to be surmounted.

The States having at length agreed to a general treaty, the following particulars were concerted
between Her Majesty and that republic:

"That the congress should be held at Utrecht.

"That the opening of the congress should be upon the twelfth of January, N.S. one thousand
seven hundred and eleven-twelve.

"That, for avoiding all inconveniences of ceremony, the ministers of the Queen and States,
during the treaty, should only have the characters of plenipotentiaries, and not take that
of ambassadors, till the day on which the peace should be signed.

"Lastly, The Queen and States insisted, that the ministers of the Duke of Anjou, and the late
Electors of Bavaria and Cologne, should not appear at the congress, until the points relating
to their masters were adjusted; and were firmly resolved not to send their passports for the
ministers of France, till the Most Christian King declared, that the absence of the forementioned
ministers should not delay the progress of the negotiation."

Pursuant to the three former articles, Her Majesty wrote circular letters to all the allies
engaged with her in the present war: and France had notice, that as soon as the King declared
his compliance with the last article, the blank passports should be filled up with the names
of the Maréchal d'Uxelles,[9] the Abbé de Polignac, and Mons. Mesnager, who were appointed
plenipotentiaries for that crown.

[Footnote 9: In his "Letter to Sir William Windham," Bolingbroke thus refers to M. d'Uxelles:
"The minister who had the principal direction of foreign affairs I lived in friendship with,
and I must own to his honour, that he never encouraged a design which he knew that his court
had no intention of supporting" (p. 141). This was written of the time when Bolingbroke was
in Paris, an adherent of the Pretender. [T.S.]]

From what I have hitherto deduced, the reader sees the plan which the Queen thought the most
effectual for advancing a peace. As the conferences were to begin upon the general preliminaries,
the Queen was to be empowered by France to offer separately to the allies what might be reasonable
for each to accept; and her own interests being previously settled, she was to act as a general
mediator: a figure that became her best, from the part she had in the war, and more useful
to the great end at which she aimed, of giving a safe and honourable peace to Europe.

Besides, it was absolutely necessary, for the interests of Britain, that the Queen should be
at the head of the negotiation, without which Her Majesty could find no expedient to redress
the injuries her kingdoms were sure to suffer by the Barrier Treaty. In order to settle this
point with the States, the ministers here had a conference with Mons. Buys, a few days before
the Parliament met. He was told, how necessary it was, by previous concert between the Emperor,
the Queen, and the States, to prevent any difference which might arise in the course of the
treaty at Utrecht: That, under pretence of a barrier for the States General, as their security
against France, infinite prejudice might arise to the trade of Britain in the Spanish Netherlands;
for, by the fifteenth article of the Barrier Treaty, in consequence of what was stipulated
by that of Minister, the Queen was brought to engage that commerce shall not be rendered more
easy, in point of duties, by the sea-ports of Flanders, than it is by the river Scheldt, and
by the canals on the side of the Seven Provinces, which, as things now stood, was very unjust;
for, while the towns in Flanders were in the hands of France or Spain, the Dutch and we traded
to them upon equal foot; but now, since by the Barrier Treaty those towns were to be possessed
by the States, that republic might lay what duties they pleased upon British goods, after passing
by Ostend, and make their own custom-free, which would utterly ruin our whole trade with Flanders.

Upon this, the lords told Mons. Buys very frankly, "That if the States expected the Queen should
support their barrier, as well as their demands from France and the house of Austria upon that
head, they ought to agree, that the subjects of Britain should trade as freely to all the countries
and places, which, by virtue of any former or future treaty, were to become the barrier of
the States, as they did in the time of the late King Charles the Second of Spain; or as the
subjects of the States General themselves shall do: and that it was hoped, their High Mightinesses
would never scruple to rectify a mistake so injurious to that nation, without whose blood and
treasure they would have had no barrier at all." Mons. Buys had nothing to answer against these
objections, but said, he had already wrote to his masters for further instructions.

Greater difficulties occurred about settling what should be the barrier to the States after
a peace: the envoy insisting to have all the towns that were named in the Treaty of Barrier
and Succession; and the Queen's ministers excepting those towns, which, if they continued in
the hands of the Dutch, would render the trade of Britain to Flanders precarious. At length
it was agreed in general, that the States ought to have what is really essential to the security
of their barrier against France; and that some amicable expedient should be found, for removing
the fears both of Britain and Holland upon this point.

But at the same time Mons. Buys was told, "That although the Queen would certainly insist to
obtain all those points from France, in behalf of her allies the States, yet she hoped his
masters were too reasonable to break off the treaty, rather than not obtain the very utmost
of their demands, which could not be settled here, unless he were fully instructed to speak
and conclude upon that subject: That Her Majesty thought the best way of securing the common
interest, and preventing the division of the allies, by the artifices of France, in the course
of a long negotiation, would be to concert between the Queen's ministers and those of the States,
with a due regard to the other confederates, such a plan as might amount to a safe and honourable
peace." After which the Abbé Polignac, who of the French plenipotentiaries was most in the
secret of his court, might be told, "That it was in vain to amuse each other any longer; that
on such terms the peace would be immediately concluded; and that the conferences must cease,
if those conditions were not, without delay, and with expedition, granted."

A treaty between Her Majesty and the States, to subsist after a peace, was now signed, Mons.
Buys having received full powers to that purpose. His masters were desirous to have a private
article added, sub spe rati, concerning those terms of peace; without the granting of which,
we should stipulate not to agree with the enemy. But neither the character of Buys, nor the
manner in which he was empowered to treat, would allow the Queen to enter into such an engagement.
The congress likewise approaching, there was not time to settle a point of so great importance.
Neither, lastly, would Her Majesty be tied down by Holland, without previous satisfaction upon
several articles in the Barrier Treaty, so inconsistent with her engagements to other powers
in the alliance, and so injurious to her own kingdoms.

The lord privy seal, and the Earl of Stafford, having, about the time the Parliament met, been
appointed Her Majesty's plenipotentiaries for treating a general peace, I shall here break
off the account of any further progress made in that great affair, until I resume it in the
last book of this History.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

THE HISTORY OF THE FOUR LAST

YEARS OF THE QUEEN.

BOOK III.

The House of Commons seemed resolved, from the beginning of the session, to inquire strictly
not only into all abuses relating to the accounts of the army, but likewise into the several
treaties between us and our allies, upon what articles and conditions they were first agreed
to, and how these had been since observed. In the first week of their sitting, they sent an
address to the Queen, to desire that the treaty, whereby Her Majesty was obliged to furnish
forty thousand men, to act in conjunction with the forces of her allies in the Low Countries,
might be laid before the House. To which the secretary of state brought an answer, "That search
had been made, but no footsteps could be found of any treaty or convention for that purpose."
It was this unaccountable neglect in the former ministry, which first gave a pretence to the
allies for lessening their quotas, so much to the disadvantage of Her Majesty, her kingdoms,
and the common cause, in the course of the war. It had been stipulated by the Grand Alliance,
between the Emperor, Britain, and the States, that those three powers should assist each other
with their whole force, and that the several proportions should be specified in a particular
convention. But if any such convention were made, it was never ratified; only the parties agreed,
by common consent, to take each a certain share of the burthen upon themselves, which the late
King William communicated to the House of Commons by his secretary of state; and which afterwards
the other two powers, observing the mighty zeal in our ministry for prolonging the war, eluded
as they pleased.

The commissioners for stating the public accounts of the kingdom, had, in executing their office
the preceding summer, discovered several practices relating to the affairs of the army, which
they drew up in a report, and delivered to the House.

The Commons began their examination of the report with a member of their own, Mr. Robert Walpole,
already mentioned; who, during his being secretary at war, had received five hundred guineas,
and taken a note for five hundred pounds more, on account of two contracts for forage of the
queen's troops quartered in Scotland. He endeavoured to excuse the first contract; but had
nothing to say about the second. The first appeared so plain and so scandalous to the Commons,
that they voted the author of it guilty of a high breach of trust, and notorious corruption,
committed him prisoner to the Tower, where he continued to the end of the session, and expelled
him the House.[1] He was a person much caressed by the opposers of the Queen and ministry,
having been first drawn into their party by his indifference to any principles, and afterwards
kept steady by the loss of his place. His bold, forward countenance, altogether a stranger
to that infirmity which makes men bashful, joined to a readiness of speaking in public, hath
justly entitled him, among those of his faction, to be a sort of leader of the second form.
The reader must excuse me for being so particular about one, who is otherwise altogether obscure.[2]

[Footnote 1: See "Part Hist," vi. 1071. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Walpole was not too obscure, however, to be then the object of Bolingbroke's attack;
and in 1726, when Bolingbroke had again attacked Walpole, this time in a letter, the latter
replied: "Whatever contradictions these gentlemen may have observed in my character; there
is one which I'll venture to assure you, you will never discover, which is my ever being alarmed
at an opposition from one in the impotence of disgrace, who could never terrify me in the zenith
of his prosperity." "An Answer to the Occasional Writer." [T.S.]]

Another part of the report concerned the Duke of Marlborough, who had received large sums of
money, by way of gratuity, from those who were the undertakers for providing the army with
bread.[3] This the Duke excused, in a letter to the commissioners, from the like practice of
other generals: but that excuse appeared to be of little weight, and the mischievous consequences
of such a corruption were visible enough; since the money given by these undertakers were but
bribes for connivance at their indirect dealings with the army. And as frauds, that begin at
the top, are apt to spread through all the subordinate ranks of those who have any share in
the management, and to increase as they circulate: so, in this case, for every thousand pounds
given to the general, the soldiers at least suffered fourfold.

[Footnote 3: See "The Examiner," Nos. 17 and 28, in vol. ix. of this edition. [W.S.J.]]

Another article of this report, relating to the Duke, was yet of more importance. The greatest
part of Her Majesty's forces in Flanders were mercenary troops, hired from several princes
of Europe. It was found that the Queen's general subtracted two and a half per cent, out of
the pay of those troops, for his own use, which amounted to a great annual sum. The Duke of
Marlborough, in his letter already mentioned, endeavouring to extenuate the matter, told the
commissioners, "That this deduction was a free gift from the foreign troops, which he had negotiated
with them by the late King's orders, and had obtained the Queen's warrant for reserving and
receiving it: That it was intended for secret service, the ten thousand pounds a year given
by Parliament not proving sufficient, and had all been laid out that way." The commissioners
observed, in answer, "That the warrant was kept dormant for nine years, as indeed no entry
of it appeared in the secretary of state's books, and the deduction of it concealed all that
time from the knowledge of Parliament: That, if it had been a free gift from the foreign troops,
it would not have been stipulated by agreement, as the Duke's letter confessed, and as his
warrant declared, which latter affirmed this stoppage to be intended for defraying extraordinary
contingent expenses of the troops, and therefore should not have been applied to secret services."
They submitted to the House, whether the warrant itself were legal, or duly countersigned.
The commissioners added, "That no receipt was ever given for this deducted money, nor was it
mentioned in any receipts from the foreign troops, which were always taken in full. And lastly,
That the whole sum, on computation, amounted to near three hundred thousand pounds."

The House, after a long debate, resolved, "That the taking several sums from the contractors
for bread by the Duke of Marlborough, was unwarrantable and illegal; and that the two and a
half per cent, deducted from the foreign troops, was public money, and ought to be accounted
for:" which resolutions were laid before the Queen by the whole House, and Her Majesty promised
to do her part in redressing what was complained of. The Duke and his friends had, about the
beginning of the war, by their credit with the Queen, procured a warrant from Her Majesty for
this perquisite of two and a half per cent. The warrant was directed to the Duke of Marlborough,
and countersigned by Sir Charles Hedges, then secretary of state; by virtue of which the paymaster-general
of the army was to pay the said deducted money to the general, and take a receipt in full from
the foreign troops.

It was observed, as very commendable and becoming the dignity of such an assembly, that this
debate was managed with great temper, and with few personal reflections upon the Duke of Marlborough.
They seemed only desirous to come at the truth, without which they could not answer the trust
reposed in them by those whom they represented, and left the rest to Her Majesty's prudence.
The attorney-general was ordered to commence an action against the Duke for the subtracted
money, which would have amounted to a great sum, enough to ruin any private person, except
himself. This process is still depending, although very moderately pursued, either by the Queen's
indulgence to one whom she had formerly so much trusted, or perhaps to be revived or slackened,
according to the future demeanour of the defendant.[4]

[Footnote 4: Marlborough's defence of himself may be found in the "Parliamentary History,"
vol. vi., 1079. Writing to the Earl of Strafford, under date January 27, 1711, Bolingbroke
speaking of this debate on Marlborough says: "What passed on Thursday in the House of Commons,
will, I hope, show people abroad, as well as at home, that no merit, no grandeur, no riches
can excuse, or save any one, who sets himself up in opposition to the Queen;" and, he might
have added, to Mrs. Masham. It is to be questioned if Marlborough would have had to undergo
the ordeal of this debate had it not been for the animosity against him on the part of this
lady and her royal mistress, so deftly aroused by Harley. [T.S.]]

Some time after, Mr. Cardonnell,[5] a Member of Parliament, and secretary to the general in
Flanders, was expelled the House, for the offence of receiving yearly bribes from those who
had contracted to furnish bread for the army; and met with no further punishment for a practice,
voted to be unwarrantable and corrupt.

These were all the censures of any moment which the Commons, under so great a weight of business,
thought fit to make, upon the reports of their commissioners for inspecting the public accounts.
But having promised, in the beginning of this History, to examine the state of the nation,
with respect to its debts; by what negligence or corruption they first began, and in process
of time made such a prodigious increase; and, lastly, what courses have been taken, under the
present administration, to find out funds for answering so many unprovided incumbrances, as
well as put a stop to new ones; I shall endeavour to satisfy the reader upon this important
article.

By all I have yet read of the history of our own country, it appears to me, that the national
debts, secured upon parliamentary funds of interest, were things unknown in England before
the last Revolution under the Prince of Orange. It is true, that in the grand rebellion the
king's enemies borrowed money of particular persons, upon what they called the public faith;
but this was only for short periods, and the sums no more than what they could pay at once,
as they constantly did. Some of our kings have been very profuse in peace and war, and are
blamed in history for their oppressions of the people by severe taxes, and for borrowing money
which they never paid:[6] but national debts was a style, which, I doubt, would hardly then
be understood. When the Prince of Orange was raised to the throne, and a general war began
in these parts of Europe, the King and his counsellors thought it would be ill policy to commence
his reign with heavy taxes upon the people, who had lived long in ease and plenty, and might
be apt to think their deliverance too dearly bought: wherefore one of the first actions of
the new government was to take off the tax upon chimneys, as a burthen very ungrateful to the
commonalty. But money being wanted to support the war (which even the convention-parliament,
that put the crown upon his head, were very unwilling he should engage in), the present Bishop
of Salisbury[7] is said to have found out that expedient (which he had learned in Holland)
of raising money upon the security of taxes, that were only sufficient to pay a large interest.
The motives which prevailed on people to fall in with this project were many, and plausible;
for supposing, as the ministers industriously gave out, that the war could not last above one
or two campaigns at most, it might be carried on with very moderate taxes; and the debts accruing
would, in process of time, be easily cleared after a peace. Then the bait of large interest
would draw in a great number of those whose money, by the dangers and difficulties of trade,
lay dead upon their hands; and whoever were lenders to the government, would, by surest principle,
be obliged to support it. Besides, the men of estates could not be persuaded, without time
and difficulty, to have those taxes laid on their lands, which custom hath since made so familiar;
and it was the business of such as were then in power to cultivate a moneyed interest; because
the gentry of the kingdom did not very much relish those new notions in government, to which
the King, who had imbibed his politics in his own country, was thought to give too much way.
Neither perhaps did that Prince think national incumbrances to be any evil at all, since the
flourishing republic, where he was born, is thought to owe more than ever it will be able or
willing to pay. And I remember, when I mentioned to Mons. Buys the many millions we owed, he
would advance it as a maxim, that it was for the interest of the public to be in debt: which
perhaps may be true in a commonwealth so crazily instituted, where the governors cannot have
too many pledges of their subjects' fidelity, and where a great majority must inevitably be
undone by any revolution, however brought about: but to prescribe the same rules to a monarchy,
whose wealth ariseth from the rents and improvements of lands, as well as trade and manufactures,
is the mark of a confined and cramped understanding.

[Footnote 5: Adam Cardonnell, Esq., secretary to the Duke of Marlborough, shared in his disgrace.
See "The Examiner," No. 28. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 6: P. Fitzgerald says "which they have not been able or willing to pay." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 7: Dr. Gilbert Burnet. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

I was moved to speak thus, because I am very well satisfied, that the pernicious counsels of
borrowing money upon public funds of interest, as well as some other state lessons, were taken
indigested from the like practices among the Dutch, without allowing in the least for any difference
in government, religion, law, custom, extent of country, or manners and dispositions of the people.

But when this expedient of anticipations and mortgages was first put in practice, artful men,
in office and credit, began to consider what uses it might be applied to; and soon found it
was likely to prove the most fruitful seminary, not only to establish a faction they intended
to set up for their own support, but likewise to raise vast wealth for themselves in particular,
who were to be the managers and directors in it. It was manifest, that nothing could promote
these two designs so much, as burthening the nation with debts, and giving encouragement to
lenders: for, as to the first, it was not to be doubted, that moneyed men would be always firm
to the party of those who advised the borrowing upon such good security, and with such exorbitant
premiums and interest; and every new sum that was lent, took away as much power from the landed
men, as it added to theirs: so that the deeper the kingdom was engaged, it was still the better
for them. Thus a new estate and property sprung up in the hands of mortgagees, to whom every
house and foot of land in England paid a rent-charge, free of all taxes and defalcations, and
purchased at less than half value. So that the gentlemen of estates were, in effect, but tenants
to these new landlords; many of whom were able, in time, to force the election of boroughs
out of the hands of those who had been the old proprietors and inhabitants. This was arrived
at such a height, that a very few years more of war and funds would have clearly cast the balance
on the moneyed side.

As to the second, this project of borrowing upon funds, was of mighty advantage to those who
were in the management of it, as well as to their friends and dependants; for, funds proving
often deficient, the government was obliged to strike tallies for making up the rest, which
tallies were sometimes (to speak in the merchants' phrase) at above forty per cent, discount.
At this price those who were in the secret bought them up, and then took care to have that
deficiency supplied in the next session of Parliament, by which they doubled their principal
in a few months; and, for the encouragement of lenders, every new project of lotteries or annuities
proposed some farther advantage, either as to interest or premium.

In the year one thousand six hundred and ninety-seven, a general mortgage was made of certain
revenues and taxes already settled, which amounted to near a million a year. This mortgage
was to continue till one thousand seven hundred and six, to be a fund for the payment of about
five millions one hundred thousand pounds. In the first Parliament of the Queen, the said mortgage
was continued till one thousand seven hundred and ten, to supply a deficiency of two millions
three hundred thousand pounds, and interest of above a million; and in the intermediate years
a great part of that fund was branched out into annuities for ninety-nine years; so that the
late ministry raised all their money to one thousand seven hundred and ten, only by continuing
funds which were already granted to their hands. This deceived the people in general, who were
satisfied to continue the payments they had been accustomed to, and made the administration
seem easy, since the war went on without any new taxes raised, except the very last year they
were in power; not considering what a mighty fund was exhausted, and must be perpetuated, although
extremely injurious to trade, and to the true interest of the nation.

This great fund of the general mortgage was not only loaded, year after year, by mighty sums
borrowed upon it, but with the interests due upon those sums; for which the treasury was forced
to strike tallies, payable out of that fund, after all the money already borrowed upon it,
there being no other provision of interest for three or four years: till at last the fund was
so overloaded, that it could neither pay principal nor interest, and tallies were struck for
both, which occasioned their great discount.

But to avoid mistakes upon a subject, where I am not very well versed either in the style or
matter, I will transcribe an account sent me by a person[8] who is thoroughly instructed in
these affairs.

[Footnote 8: Sir John Blunt. [ORIGINAL NOTE.] He was one of the first projectors of the South
Sea Company, and died in January, 1733. [W.S.J.]]

"In the year one thousand seven hundred and seven, the sum of eight hundred twenty-two thousand
three hundred and eighty one pounds, fifteen shillings and sixpence, was raised, by continuing
part of the general mortgage from one thousand seven hundred and ten to one thousand seven
hundred and twelve; but with no provision of interest till August the first, one thousand seven
hundred and ten, otherwise than by striking tallies for it on that fund, payable after all
the other money borrowed.

"In one thousand seven hundred and eight, the same funds were continued from one thousand seven
hundred and twelve to one thousand seven hundred and fourteen, to raise seven hundred twenty-nine
thousand sixty-seven pounds fifteen shillings and sixpence; but no provision for interest till
August the first, one thousand seven hundred and twelve, otherwise than as before, by striking
tallies for it on the same fund, payable after all the rest of the money borrowed. And the
discount of tallies then beginning to rise, great part of that money remains still unraised;
and there is nothing to pay interest for the money lent, till August the first, one thousand
seven hundred and twelve. But the late lord treasurer struck tallies for the full sum directed
by the act to be borrowed, great part of which have been delivered in payment to the navy and
victualling offices, and some are still in the hands of the government.

"In one thousand seven hundred and nine, part of the same fund was continued from August the
first, one thousand seven hundred and fourteen, to August the first, one thousand seven hundred
and sixteen, to raise six hundred and forty-five thousand pounds; and no provision for interest
till August the first, one thousand seven hundred and fourteen (which was about five years),
but by borrowing money on the same fund, payable after the sums before lent; so that little
of that money was lent But the tallies were struck for what was unlent, some of which were
given out for the payment of the navy and victualling, and some still remain in the hands of
the government.

"In one thousand seven hundred and ten, the sums which were before given from one thousand
seven hundred and fourteen, to one thousand seven hundred and sixteen, were continued from
thence to one thousand seven hundred and twenty, to raise one million two hundred and ninety-six
thousand five hundred and fifty-two pounds nine shillings and elevenpence three farthings;
and no immediate provision for interest till August the first, one thousand seven hundred and
sixteen; only, after the duty of one shilling per bushel on salt should be cleared from the
money it was then charged with, and which was not so cleared till Midsummer one thousand seven
hundred and twelve last, then that fund was to be applied to pay the interest till August the
first, one thousand seven hundred and sixteen, which interest amounted to about seventy-seven
thousand seven hundred and ninety-three pounds per annum: and the said salt fund produceth
but about fifty-five thousand pounds per annum; so that no money was borrowed upon the general
mortgage in one thousand seven hundred and ten, except one hundred and fifty thousand pounds
lent by the Swiss cantons; but tallies were struck for the whole sum. These all remained in
the late treasurer's hands at the time of his removal, yet the money was expended, which occasioned
those great demands upon the commissioners of the treasury who succeeded him, and were forced
to pawn those tallies to the bank, or to remitters, rather than sell them at twenty or twenty-five
per cent. discount, as the price then was. About two hundred thousand pounds of them they paid
to clothiers of the army, and others; and all the rest, being above ninety thousand pounds,
have been subscribed into the South Sea Company for the use of the public."

When the Earl of Godolphin was removed from his employment, he left a debt upon the navy of
---- millions,[9] all contracted under his administration,[10] which had no Parliament-security,
and was daily increased. Neither could I ever learn, whether that lord had the smallest prospect
of clearing this incumbrance, or whether there were policy, negligence, or despair at the bottom
of this unaccountable management. But the consequences were visible and ruinous; for by this
means navy-bills grew to be forty per cent. discount, and upwards; and almost every kind of
stores, bought by the navy and victualling offices, cost the government double rates, and sometimes
more: so that the public hath directly lost several millions upon this one article, without
any sort of necessity, that I could ever hear assigned by the ablest vindicators of that party.

[Footnote 9: "Of      millions" in original. "Of ---- millions" in 1775. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 10: See "The Examiner," No. 45, and note in vol. ix. of this edition, p. 295. [W.S.J.]]

In this oppressed and entangled state was the kingdom, with relation to its debts, when the
Queen removed the Earl of Godolphin from his office, and put it into commission, of which the
present treasurer was one. This person had been chosen speaker successively to three Parliaments,
was afterwards secretary of state, and always in great esteem with the Queen for his wisdom
and fidelity. The late ministry, about two years before their fall, had prevailed with Her
Majesty, much against her inclination, to dismiss him from her service; for which they cannot
be justly blamed, since he had endeavoured the same thing against them, and very narrowly failed;
which makes it the more extraordinary that he should succeed in a second attempt against those
very adversaries, who had such fair warning by the first. He is firm and steady in his resolutions,
not easily diverted from them after he hath once possessed himself of an opinion that they
are right, nor very communicative where he can act by himself, being taught by experience,
that a secret is seldom safe in more than one breast. That which occurs to other men after
mature deliberation, offers to him as his first thoughts; so that he decides immediately what
is best to be done, and therefore is seldom at a loss upon sudden exigencies. He thinks it
a more easy and safe rule in politics to watch incidents as they come, and then turn them to
the advantage of what he pursues, than pretend to foresee them at a great distance. Fear, cruelty,
avarice, and pride, are wholly strangers to his nature; but he is not without ambition. There
is one thing peculiar in his temper, which I altogether disapprove, and do not remember to
have heard or met with in any other man's character: I mean, an easiness and indifference under
any imputation, although he be never so innocent, and although the strongest probabilities
and appearance are against him; so that I have known him often suspected by his nearest friends,
for some months, in points of the highest importance, to a degree, that they were ready to
break with him, and only undeceived by time and accident. His detractors, who charge him with
cunning, are but ill acquainted with his character; for, in the sense they take the word, and
as it is usually understood, I know no man to whom that mean talent could be with less justice
applied, as the conduct of affairs, while he hath been at the helm, doth clearly demonstrate,
very contrary to the nature and principles of cunning, which is always employed in serving
little turns, proposing little ends, and supplying daily exigencies by little shifts and expedients.
But to rescue a prince out of the hands of insolent subjects, bent upon such designs as must
probably end in the ruin of the government; to find out means for paying such exorbitant debts
as this nation hath been involved in, and reduce it to a better management; to make a potent
enemy offer advantageous terms of peace, and deliver up the most important fortress of his
kingdom, as a security;[11] and this against all the opposition, mutually raised and inflamed
by parties and allies; such performances can only be called cunning by those whose want of
understanding, or of candour, puts them upon finding ill names for great qualities of the mind,
which themselves do neither possess, nor can form any just conception of. However, it must
be allowed, that an obstinate love of secrecy in this minister seems, at distance, to have
some resemblance of cunning; for he is not only very retentive of secrets, but appears to be
so too, which I number amongst his defects. He hath been blamed by his friends for refusing
to discover his intentions, even in those points where the wisest man may have need of advice
and assistance, and some have censured him, upon that account, as if he were jealous of power
but he hath been heard to answer, "That he seldom did otherwise, without cause to repent"

[Footnote 11: This is surely a piece of Swift's partiality for Oxford; since it practically
deprives Bolingbroke of whatever credit was his for the Peace of Utrecht, and that was not
a little; certainly more than may be given to Oxford. [T.S.]]

However, so undistinguished a caution cannot, in my opinion, be justified, by which the owner
loseth many advantages, and whereof all men, who deserved to be confided in, may with some
reason complain. His love of procrastination (wherein doubtless nature hath her share) may
probably be increased by the same means, but this is an imputation laid upon many other great
ministers, who, like men under too heavy a load, let fall that which is of the least consequence,
and go back to fetch it when their shoulders are free, for time is often gained, as well as
lost, by delay, which at worst is a fault on the securer side.[12] Neither probably is this
minister answerable for half the clamour raised against him upon that article: his endeavours
are wholly turned upon the general welfare of his country, but perhaps with too little regard
to that of particular persons, which renders him less amiable, than he would otherwise have
been from the goodness of his humour, and agreeable conversation in a private capacity, and
with few dependers. Yet some allowance may perhaps be given to this failing, which is one of
the greatest he hath, since he cannot be more careless of other men's fortunes than he is of
his own. He is master of a very great and faithful memory, which is of mighty use in the management
of public affairs; and I believe there are few examples to be produced in any age, of a person
who hath passed through so many employments in the state, endowed with a great share, both
of divine and human learning.

[Footnote 12: Unfortunately, procrastination too often ended for Harley in very unpleasant
results, and it is not too much to say, this failing was the indirect cause of his downfall.
Swift's character of Oxford, as given in this "History," should be compared with that given
of him in "An Enquiry into the Behaviour of the Queen's Last Ministry" (vol v, pp 431-434,
of present edition). Dr William King, to whom Swift had written in 1736, for certain dates
and official extracts to be included in this "History," wrote to Swift (December 7th, 1736),
referring to this very matter of Oxford's character. As the letter applies to some other portions
of this "History," it will be better if it be given here. (vol. v., pp. 425-476). [W.S.J.]]

In that perplexed condition of the public debts, which I have already described, this minister
was brought into the treasury and exchequer, and had the chief direction of affairs. His first
regulation was that of exchequer bills, which, to the great discouragement of public credit,
and scandal to the crown, were three per cent. less in value than the sums specified in them.
The present treasurer, being then chancellor of the exchequer, procured an Act of Parliament,
by which the Bank of England should be obliged, in consideration of forty-five thousand pounds,
to accept and circulate those bills without any discount. He then proceeded to stop the depredations
of those who dealt in remittances of money to the army, who, by unheard of exactions in that
kind of traffic, had amassed prodigious wealth at the public cost, to which the Earl of Godolphin
had given too much way,[14] possibly by neglect; for I think he cannot be accused of corruption.

[Footnote 14: Added in the author's own handwriting. [ORIGINAL NOTE.] P. Fitzgerald gives the
addition as "either through ignorance, connivance, or neglect." [W.S.J.]]

But the new treasurer's chief concern was to restore the credit of the nation, by finding some
settlement for unprovided debts, amounting in the whole to ten millions, which hung on the
public as a load equally heavy and disgraceful, without any prospect of being removed, and
which former ministers never had the care or courage to inspect. He resolved to go at once
to the bottom of this evil; and having computed and summed up the debt of the navy, and victualling,
ordnance, and transport of the army, and transport debentures made out for the service of the
last war, of the general mortgage tallies for the year one thousand seven hundred and ten,
and some other deficiencies, he then found out a fund of interest sufficient to answer all
this, which, being applied to other uses, could not raise present money for the war, but in
a very few years would clear the debt it was engaged for. The intermediate accruing interest
was to be paid by the treasurer of the navy; and, as a farther advantage to the creditors,
they should be erected into a company for trading to the South Seas, and for encouragement
of fishery. When all this was fully prepared and digested, he made a motion in the House of
Commons (who deferred extremely to his judgment and abilities) for paying the debts of the
navy, and other unprovided deficiencies, without entering into particulars, which was immediately
voted. But a sudden stop was put to this affair by an unforeseen accident. The chancellor of
the exchequer (which was then his title) being stabbed with a penknife, the following day,
at the Cockpit, in the midst of a dozen lords of the council, by the Sieur de Guiscard, a French
papist; the circumstances of which fact being not within the compass of this History, I shall
only observe, that after two months' confinement, and frequent danger of his life, he returned
to his seat in Parliament.[15]

[Footnote 15: See the particular account in "The Examiner." [ORIGINAL NOTE.] The reference
is to Nos. 33, 41, and 42 of that paper (see vol. ix, of this edition). [W.S.J.]]

The overtures made by this minister, of paying so vast a debt, under the pressures of a long
war, and the difficulty of finding supplies for continuing it, was, during the time of his
illness, ridiculed by his enemies as an impracticable and visionary project: and when, upon
his return to the House, he had explained his proposal, the very proprietors of the debt were,
many of them, prevailed on to oppose it; although the obtaining this trade, either through
Old Spain, or directly to the Spanish West Indies, had been one principal end we aimed at by
this war. However, the bill passed; and, as an immediate consequence, the naval bills rose
to about twenty per cent., nor ever fell within ten of their discount. Another good effect
of this work appeared by the parliamentary lotteries, which have been since erected. The last
of that kind, under the former ministry, was eleven weeks in filling; whereas the first, under
the present, was filled in a very few hours, although it cost the government less; and the
others, which followed, were full before the Acts concerning them could pass. And to prevent
incumbrances of this kind from growing for the future, he took care, by the utmost parsimony,
or by suspending payments, where they seemed less to press, that all stores for the navy should
be bought with ready money; by which cent. per cent. hath been saved in that mighty article
of our expense, as will appear from an account taken at the victualling office on the 9th of
August, one thousand seven hundred and twelve. And the payment of the interest was less a burthen
upon the navy, by the stores being bought at so cheap a rate.

It might look invidious to enter into farther particulars upon this head, but of smaller moment.
What I have above related, may serve to shew in how ill a condition the kingdom stood, with
relation to its debts, by the corruption as well as negligence of former management; and what
prudent, effectual measures have since been taken to provide for old incumbrances, and hinder
the running into new. This may be sufficient for the information of the reader, perhaps already
tired with a subject so little entertaining as that of accounts: I shall therefore now return
to relate some of the principal matters that passed in Parliament, during this session.

Upon the eighteenth of January the House of Lords sent down a bill to the Commons, for fixing
the precedence of the Hanover family, which probably had been forgot in the Acts for settling
the succession of the crown. That of Henry VIII. which gives the rank to princes of the blood,
carries it no farther than to nephews, nieces, and grandchildren of the crown, by virtue of
which the Princess Sophia is a princess of the blood, as niece to King Charles I of England,
and precedes accordingly, but this privilege doth not descend to her son the Elector, or the
electoral prince. To supply which defect, and pay a compliment to the presumptive heirs of
the crown, this bill, as appeareth by the preamble, was recommended by Her Majesty to the House
of Lords, which the Commons, to shew their zeal for every thing that might be thought to concern
the interest or honour of that illustrious family, ordered to be read thrice, passed nemine
contradicente and returned to the Lords, without any amendment, on the very day it was sent down.

But the House seemed to have nothing more at heart than a strict inquiry into the state of
the nation, with respect to foreign alliances. Some discourses had been published in print,
about the beginning of the session, boldly complaining of certain articles in the Barrier Treaty,
concluded about three years since by the Lord Viscount Townshend, between Great Britain and
the States General, and shewing, in many particulars, the unequal conduct of these powers in
our alliance, in furnishing their quotas and supplies. It was asserted by the same writers,
"That these hardships, put upon England, had been countenanced and encouraged by a party here
at home, in order to preserve their power, which could be no otherwise maintained than by continuing
the war, as well as by Her Majesty's general abroad, upon account of his own peculiar interest
and grandeur." These loud accusations spreading themselves throughout the kingdom, delivered
in facts directly charged, and thought, whether true or not, to be but weakly confuted, had
sufficiently prepared the minds of the people, and, by putting arguments into every body's
mouth, had filled the town and country with controversies, both in writing and discourse. The
point appeared to be of great consequence, whether the war continued or not for, in the former
case, it was necessary that the allies should be brought to a more equal regulation, and that
the States in particular, for whom Her Majesty had done such great things, should explain and
correct those articles in the Barrier Treaty which were prejudicial to Britain, and, in either
case, it was fit the people should have at least the satisfaction of knowing by whose counsels,
and for what designs, they had been so hardly treated.

In order to this great inquiry, the Barrier Treaty, with all other treaties and agreements
entered into between Her Majesty and her allies, during the present war, for the raising and
augmenting the proportions for the service thereof, were, by the Queen's directions, laid before
the House.

Several resolutions were drawn up, and reported at different times, upon the deficiencies of
the allies in furnishing their quotas, upon certain articles in the Barrier Treaty, and upon
the state of the war; by all which it appeared, that whatever had been charged by public discourses
in print against the late ministry, and the conduct of the allies, was much less than the truth.
Upon these resolutions (by one of which the Lord Viscount Townshend, who negotiated and signed
the Barrier Treaty, was declared an enemy to the Queen and kingdom), and upon some farther
directions to the committee, a Representation was formed; and soon after the Commons in a body
presented it to the Queen, the endeavours of the adverse party not prevailing to have it re-committed.

This Representation (supposed to be the work of Sir Thomas Hanmer's[16] pen) is written with
much energy and spirit, and will be a very useful authentic record, for the assistance of those
who at any time shall undertake to write the history of the present times.

[Footnote 16: But to which the Dean himself contributed a large share. [S.] Swift writes in
his "Journal," under date February 21st: "I left them at 7, being engaged to go to Sir Tho.
Hanmer, who desired I would see him at that hour. His business was, that I would help him to
draw up the representation, which I consented to do" (vol. ii., p. 340). [W.S.J.]]

I did intend, for brevity sake, to have given the reader only an abstract of it; but, upon
trial, found myself unequal to such a task, without injuring so excellent a piece. And although
I think historical relations are but ill patched up with long transcripts already printed,
which, upon that account, I have hitherto avoided; yet this being the sum of all debates and
resolutions of the House of Commons in that great affair of the war, I conceived it could not
well be omitted.[1]

[Footnote 17: This "Representation" was printed by S. Keble by order of the Speaker, and is
also to be found in the "Journals of the House of Commons," vol. xvii., pp. 119-123. [W.S.J.]]

"MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN,

"We your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons of Great Britain in Parliament
assembled, having nothing so much at heart, as to enable your Majesty to bring this long and
expensive war to an honourable and happy conclusion, have taken it into our most serious consideration,
how the necessary supplies to be provided by us may be best applied, and the common cause may
in the most effectual manner be carried on, by the united force of the whole confederacy; we
have thought ourselves obliged, in duty to your Majesty, and in discharge of the trust reposed
in us, to inquire into the true state of the war, in all its parts; we have examined what stipulations
have been entered into between your Majesty and your allies; and how far such engagements have
on each side been made good. We have considered the different interests which the confederates
have in the success of this war, and the different shares they have contributed to its support:
we have with our utmost care and diligence endeavoured to discover the nature, extent, and
charge of it, to the end, that by comparing the weight thereof with our own strength, we might
adapt the one to the other in such measure, as neither to continue your Majesty's subjects
under a heavier burden, than in reason and justice they ought to bear; nor deceive your Majesty,
your allies, and ourselves, by undertaking more than the nation in its present circumstances
is able to perform.

"Your Majesty has been graciously pleased, upon our humble applications, to order such materials
to be laid before us, as have furnished us with the necessary information upon the particulars
we have inquired into; and when we shall have laid before your Majesty our observations, and
humble advice upon this subject, we promise to ourselves this happy fruit from it, that if
your Majesty's generous and good purposes, for the procuring a safe and lasting peace, should,
through the obstinacy of the enemy, or by any other means, be unhappily defeated, a true knowledge
and understanding of the past conduct of the war will be the best foundation for a more frugal
and equal management of it for the time to come.

"In order to take the more perfect view of what we proposed, and that we might be able to set
the whole before your Majesty in a true light, we have thought it necessary to go back to the
beginning of the war, and beg leave to observe the motives and reasons, upon which his late
Majesty King William engaged first in it. The treaty of the Grand Alliance, explains those
reasons to be for the supporting the pretensions of his Imperial Majesty, then actually engaged
in a war with the French King, who had usurped the entire Spanish monarchy for his grandson
the Duke of Anjou; and for the assisting the States General, who, by the loss of their barrier
against France, were then in the same, or a more dangerous condition, than if they were actually
invaded. As these were the just and necessary motives for undertaking this war, so the ends
proposed to be obtained by it, were equally wise and honourable; for as they are set forth
in the eighth article of the same treaty, they appear to have been the procuring an equitable
and reasonable satisfaction to his Imperial Majesty, and sufficient securities for the dominions,
provinces, navigation, and commerce of the King of Great Britain, and the States General, and
the making effectual provision, that the two kingdoms of France and Spain should never be united
under the same government; and particularly, that the French should never get into the possession
of the Spanish West Indies, or be permitted to sail thither, upon the account of traffic, under
any pretence whatsoever; and lastly, the securing to the subjects of the King of Great Britain,
and the States General, all the same privileges, and rights of commerce, throughout the whole
dominions of Spain, as they enjoyed before the death of Charles the Second King of Spain, by
virtue of any treaty, agreement, or custom, or any other way whatsoever. For the obtaining
these ends, the three confederated powers engaged to assist one another with their whole force,
according to such proportions as should be specified in a particular convention, afterwards
to be made for that purpose: we do not find that any such convention was ever ratified; but
it appears, that there was an agreement concluded, which, by common consent, was understood
to be binding upon each party respectively, and according to which the proportions of Great
Britain were from the beginning regulated and founded. The terms of that agreement were, That
for the service at land, his Imperial Majesty should furnish ninety thousand men, the King
of Great Britain forty thousand, and the States General one hundred and two thousand, of which
there were forty-two thousand intended to supply their garrisons, and sixty thousand to act
against the common enemy in the field; and with regard to the operations of the war at sea,
they were agreed to be performed jointly by Great Britain and the States General, the quota
of ships to be furnished for that service being five-eighths on the part of Great Britain,
and three-eighths on the part of the States General.

"Upon this foot, the war began in the year one thousand seven hundred and two, at which time
the whole yearly expense of it to England amounted to three millions, seven hundred and six
thousand four hundred ninety-four pounds; a very great charge, as it was then thought by your
Majesty's subjects, after the short interval of ease they had enjoyed from the burden of the
former war, but yet a very moderate proportion, in comparison with the load which hath since
been laid upon them: for it appears, by estimates given in to your Commons, that the sums necessary
to carry on the service for this present year, in the same manner as it was performed the last
year, amount to more than six millions nine hundred and sixty thousand pounds, besides interest
for the public debts, and the deficiencies accruing the last year, which two articles require
one million one hundred and forty-three thousand pounds more: so that the whole demands upon
your Commons are arisen to more than eight millions for the present annual supply. We know
your Majesty's tender regard for the welfare of your people, will make it uneasy to you to
hear of so great a pressure as this upon them; and as we are assured, it will fully convince
your Majesty of the necessity of our present inquiry; so we beg leave to represent to you,
from what causes, and by what steps, this immense charge appears to have grown upon us.

"That part of the war which hath been carried on in Flanders, was at first immediately necessary
to the security of the States General, and hath since brought them great acquisitions, both
of revenue and dominion; yet even there the original proportions have been departed from, and,
during the course of the war, have been sinking by degrees on the part of Holland; so that
in this last year, we find the number in which they fell short of their three-fifths, to your
Majesty's two-fifths, have been twenty thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven men: we are
not unmindful, that in the year one thousand seven hundred and three, a treaty was made between
the two nations, for a joint augmentation of twenty thousand men, wherein the proportions were
varied, and England consented to take half upon itself. But it having been annexed as an express
condition to the grant of the said augmentation in Parliament, that the States General should
prohibit all trade and commerce with France, and that condition having not been performed by
them, the Commons think it reasonable, that the first rule of three to two ought to have taken
place again, as well in that as in other subsequent augmentations, more especially when they
consider, that the revenues of those rich provinces which have been conquered, would, if they
were duly applied, maintain a great number of new additional forces against the common enemy;
notwithstanding which, the States General have raised none upon that account, but make use
of those fresh supplies of money, only to ease themselves in the charge of their first established
quota.

"As in the progress of the war in Flanders, a disproportion was soon created to the prejudice
of England; so the very beginning of the war in Portugal, brought an unequal share of burden
upon us; for although the Emperor and the States General were equally parties with your Majesty
in the treaty with the King of Portugal, yet the Emperor neither furnishing his third part
of the troops and subsidies stipulated for, nor the Dutch consenting to take an equal share
of his Imperial Majesty's defect upon themselves, your Majesty hath been obliged to furnish
two-thirds of the entire expense created by that service. Nor has the inequality stopped there;
for ever since the year one thousand seven hundred and six, when the English and Dutch forces
marched out of Portugal into Castile, the States General have entirely abandoned the war in
Portugal, and left your Majesty to prosecute it singly at your own charge, which you have accordingly
done, by replacing a greater number of troops there, than even at first you took upon you to
provide. At the same time your Majesty's generous endeavours for the support and defence of
the King of Portugal, have been but ill seconded by that Prince himself; for notwithstanding
that by his treaty he had obliged himself to furnish twelve thousand foot, and three thousand
horse, upon his own account, besides eleven thousand foot, and two thousand horse more, in
consideration of a subsidy paid him; yet, according to the best information your Commons can
procure, it appears, that he hath scarce at any time furnished thirteen thousand men in the whole.

"In Spain the war hath been yet more unequal, and burdensome to your Majesty, than in any other
branch of it; for being commenced without any treaty whatsoever, the allies have almost wholly
declined taking any part of it upon themselves. A small body of English and Dutch troops were
sent thither in the year one thousand seven hundred and five, not as being thought sufficient
to support a regular war, or to make the conquest of so large a country; but with a view only
of assisting the Spaniards to set King Charles upon the throne; occasioned by the great assurances
which were given of their inclinations to the House of Austria: but this expectation failing,
England was insensibly drawn into an established war, under all the disadvantages of the distance
of the place, and the feeble efforts of the other allies. The account we have to lay before
your Majesty, upon this head, is, that although the undertaking was entered upon at the particular
and earnest request of the imperial court, and for a cause of no less importance and concern
to them, than the reducing the Spanish monarchy to the House of Austria; yet neither the late
emperors, nor his present Imperial Majesty, have ever had any forces there on their own account,
till the last year; and then, only one regiment of foot, consisting of two thousand men. Though
the States General have contributed something more to this service, yet their share also hath
been inconsiderable; for in the space of four years, from one thousand seven hundred and five,
to one thousand seven hundred and eight, both inclusive, all the forces they have sent into
that country have not exceeded twelve thousand two hundred men; and from the year one thousand
seven hundred and eight to this time, they have not sent any forces or recruits whatsoever.
To your Majesty's care and charge the recovery of that kingdom hath been in a manner wholly
left, as if none else were interested or concerned in it. And the forces which your Majesty
hath sent into Spain, in the space of seven years, from one thousand seven hundred and five
to one thousand seven hundred and eleven, both inclusive, have amounted to no less than fifty-seven
thousand nine hundred seventy-three men; besides thirteen battalions and eighteen squadrons,
for which your Majesty hath paid a subsidy to the Emperor.

"How great the established expense of such a number of men hath been, your Majesty very well
knows, and your Commons very sensibly feel; but the weight will be found much greater, when
it is considered how many heavy articles of unusual and extraordinary charge have attended
this remote and difficult service, all which have been entirely defrayed by your Majesty, except
that one of transporting the few forces, which were sent by the States General, and the victualling
of them during their transportation only.

"We should take notice to your Majesty of several sums paid upon account of contingencies,
and extraordinaries in Flanders, making together the sum of one million one hundred and seven
thousand and ninety-six pounds: but we are not able to make any comparison of them, with what
the States General have expended upon the same head, having no such state of their extraordinary
charge before us. There remains therefore but one particular more for your Majesty's observation,
which arises from the subsidies paid to foreign princes. These, at the beginning of the war,
were borne in equal proportion by your Majesty, and the States General; but in this instance
also, the balance hath been cast in prejudice of your Majesty: for it appears, that your Majesty
hath since advanced more than your equal proportion, three millions one hundred and fifty-five
thousand crowns[18], besides extraordinaries paid in Italy, and not included in any of the
foregoing articles, which arise to five hundred thirty-nine thousand five hundred and fifty-three
pounds.

[Footnote 18: In the "Journals of the House of Commons," vol. xvii., p. 48, is an exact state
of all the subsidies and extra expenses, from 1702 to 1711. [N.]]

"We have laid these several particulars before your Majesty in the shortest manner we have
been able; and by an estimate grounded on the preceding facts, it does appear, that over and
above the quotas on the part of Great Britain, answering to those contributed by your allies,
more than nineteen millions have been expended by your Majesty, during the course of this war,
by way of surplusage, or exceeding in balance, of which none of the confederates have furnished
any thing whatsoever.

"It is with very great concern, that we find so much occasion given us, to represent how ill
an use hath been made of your Majesty's and your subjects' zeal for the common cause; that
the interest of that cause hath not been proportionably promoted by it, but others only have
been eased at your Majesty's and your subjects' costs, and have been connived at, in laying
their part of the burden upon this kingdom, although they have upon all accounts been equally,
and in most respects, much more nearly concerned than Britain in the issue of the war. We are
persuaded your Majesty will think it pardonable in us, with some resentment to complain of
the little regard, which some of those, whom your Majesty of late years intrusted, have shewn
to the interests of their country, in giving way, at least, to such unreasonable impositions
upon it, if not in some measure contriving them. The course of which impositions hath been
so singular and extraordinary, that the more the wealth of this nation hath been exhausted,
and the more your Majesty's arms have been attended with success, the heavier hath been the
burden laid upon us; whilst on the other hand, the more vigorous your Majesty's efforts have
been, and the greater the advantages which have redounded thence to your allies, the more those
allies have abated in their share of the expense.

"At the first entrance into this war, the Commons were induced to exert themselves in the extraordinary
manner they did, and to grant such large supplies, as had been unknown to former ages, in hopes
thereby to prevent the mischiefs of a lingering war, and to bring that, in which they were
necessarily engaged, to a speedy conclusion; but they have been very unhappy in the event,
whilst they have so much reason to suspect, that what was intended to shorten the war, hath
proved the very cause of its long continuance; for those, to whom the profits of it have accrued,
have been disposed not easily to forgo them. And your Majesty will from thence discern the
true reason, why so many have delighted in a war, which brought in so rich an harvest yearly
from Great Britain.

"We are as far from desiring, as we know your Majesty will be from concluding any peace, but
upon safe and honourable terms; and we are far from intending to excuse ourselves from raising
all necessary and possible supplies, for an effectual prosecution of the war, till such a peace
can be obtained: all that your faithful Commons aim at, all that they wish, is an equal concurrence
from the other powers, engaged in alliance with your Majesty; and a just application of what
hath been already gained from the enemy, towards promoting the common cause. Several large
countries and territories have been restored to the house of Austria, such as the kingdom of
Naples, the duchy of Milan, and other places in Italy; others have been conquered, and added
to their dominions, as the two electorates of Bavaria and Cologne, the duchy of Mantua, and
the bishopric of Liège; these having been reduced in great measure by our blood and treasure,
may, we humbly conceive, with great reason, be claimed to come in aid towards carrying on the
war in Spain. And therefore we make it our earnest request to your Majesty, that you will give
instructions to your ministers, to insist with the Emperor, that the revenues of those several
places, excepting only such a portion thereof as is necessary for their defence, be actually
so applied: and as to the other parts of the war, to which your Majesty hath obliged yourself
by particular treaties to contribute, we humbly beseech your Majesty, that you will be pleased
to take effectual care, that your allies do perform their parts stipulated by those treaties;
and that your Majesty will, for the future, no otherwise furnish troops, or pay subsidies,
than in proportion to what your allies shall actually furnish and pay. When this justice is
done to your Majesty, and to your people, there is nothing which your Commons will not cheerfully
grant, towards supporting your Majesty in the cause in which you are engaged. And whatever
farther shall appear to be necessary for carrying on the war, either at sea or land, we will
effectually enable your Majesty to bear your reasonable share of any such expense, and will
spare no supplies which your subjects are able, with their utmost efforts to afford.

"After having enquired into, and considered the state of the war, in which the part your Majesty
has borne, appears to have been, not only superior to that of any one ally, but even equal
to that of the whole confederacy; your Commons naturally inclined to hope, that they should
find care had been taken of securing some particular advantages to Britain, in the terms of
a future peace; such as might afford a prospect of making the nation amends, in time, for that
immense treasure which has been expended, and those heavy debts which have been contracted,
in the course of so long and burdensome a war. This reasonable expectation could no way have
been better answered, than by some provision made for the further security, and the greater
improvement of the commerce of Great Britain; but we find ourselves so very far disappointed
in these hopes, that in a treaty not long since concluded between your Majesty and the States
General, under colour of a mutual guarantee, given for two points of the greatest importance
to both nations, the Succession, and the Barrier; it appears, the interest of Great Britain
hath been not only neglected, but sacrificed; and that several articles in the said treaty,
are destructive to the trade and welfare of this kingdom, and therefore highly dishonourable
to your Majesty.

"Your Commons observe, in the first place, that several towns and places are, by virtue of
this treaty, to be put into the hands of the States General, particularly Nieuport, Dendermonde,
and the castle of Ghent, which can in no sense be looked upon as part of a barrier against
France, but being the keys of the Netherlands towards Britain, must make the trade of your
Majesty's subjects in those parts precarious, and whenever the States think fit, totally exclude
them from it. The pretended necessity of putting these places into the hands of the States
General, in order to secure to them a communication with their barrier, must appear vain and
groundless; for the sovereignty of the Low Countries being not to remain to an enemy, but to
a friend and an ally, that communication must be always secure and uninterrupted; besides that,
in case of a rupture, or any attack, the States have full liberty allowed them to take possession
of all the Spanish Netherlands, and therefore needed no particular stipulation for the towns
above mentioned.

"Having taken notice of this concession made to the States General, for seizing upon the whole
ten provinces; we cannot but observe to your Majesty, that in the manner this article is framed,
it is another dangerous circumstance which attends this treaty; for had such a provision been
confined to the case of an apparent attack from France only, the avowed design of this treaty
had been fulfilled, and your Majesty's instructions to your ambassador had been pursued: but
this necessary restriction hath been omitted, and the same liberty is granted to the States,
to take possession of all the Netherlands, whenever they shall think themselves attacked by
any other neighbouring nation, as when they shall be in danger from France; so that if it should
at any time happen (which your Commons are very unwilling to suppose) that they should quarrel,
even with your Majesty, the riches, strength, and advantageous situation of these countries,
may be made use of against yourself, without whose generous and powerful assistance they had
never been conquered.

"To return to those ill consequences which relate to the trade of your kingdoms, we beg leave
to observe to your Majesty, that though this treaty revives, and renders your Majesty a party
to the fourteenth and fifteenth articles of the Treaty of Munster,[19] by virtue of which,
the impositions upon all goods and merchandises brought into the Spanish Low Countries by the
sea, are to equal those laid on goods and merchandises imported by the Scheldt, and the canals
of Sass and Swyn, and other mouths of the sea adjoining; yet no care is taken to preserve that
equality upon the exportation of those goods out of the Spanish provinces, into those countries
and places, which, by virtue of this treaty, are to be in the possession of the States; the
consequence of which must in time be, and your Commons are informed, that in some instances
it has already proved to be the case, that the impositions upon goods carried into those countries
and places, by the subjects of the States General, will be taken off, while those upon the
goods imported by your Majesty's subjects remain: by which means, Great Britain will entirely
lose this most beneficial branch of trade, which it has in all ages been possessed of, even
from the time when those countries were governed by the house of Burgundy, one of the most
ancient, as well as the most useful allies to the crown of England.

[Footnote 19: Concluded June 30th, 1643. See note in vol. v., p. 150, of present edition. [T.S.]]

"With regard to the other dominions and territories of Spain, your Majesty's subjects have
always been distinguished in their commerce with them, and both by ancient treaties, and an
uninterrupted custom, have enjoyed greater privileges and immunities of trade, than either
the Hollanders, or any other nation whatsoever. And that wise and excellent treaty of the Grand
Alliance, provides effectually for the security and continuance of these valuable privileges
to Britain, in such a manner, as that each nation might be left, at the end of war, upon the
same foot as it stood at the commencement of it: but this treaty we now complain of, instead
of confirming your subjects' rights, surrenders and destroys them; for although by the sixteenth
and seventeenth articles of the Treaty of Munster, made between his Catholic Majesty and the
States General, all advantages of trade are stipulated for, and granted to the Hollanders,
equal to what the English enjoyed; yet the crown of England not being a party to that treaty,
the subjects of England have never submitted to those articles of it, nor even the Spaniards
themselves ever observed them; but this treaty revives those articles in prejudice of Great
Britain, and makes your Majesty a party to them, and even a guarantee to the States General,
for privileges against your own people.

"In how deliberate and extraordinary a manner your Majesty's ambassador consented to deprive
your subjects of their ancient rights, and your Majesty of the power of procuring to them any
new advantage, most evidently appears from his own letters, which, by your Majesty's directions,
have been laid before your Commons:[20] for when matters of advantage to your Majesty, and
to your kingdom, had been offered, as proper to be made parts of this treaty, they were refused
to be admitted by the States General, upon this reason and principle, that nothing foreign
to the guaranties of the Succession, and of the Barrier, should be mingled with them; notwithstanding
which, the States General had no sooner received notice of a treaty of commerce concluded between
your Majesty and the present Emperor, but they departed from the rule proposed before, and
insisted upon the article, of which your Commons now complain; which article your Majesty's
ambassador allowed of, although equally foreign to the Succession, or the Barrier; and although
he had for that reason departed from other articles, which would have been for the service
of his own country.

[Footnote 20: Printed in the "Journals," vol. xvii., pp. 87-89. [N.]]

"We have forborne to trouble your Majesty with general observations upon this treaty, as it
relates to and affects the empire, and other parts of Europe. The mischiefs which arise from
it to Great Britain, are what only we have presumed humbly to represent to you, as they are
very evident, and very great: and as it appears, that the Lord Viscount Townshend had not any
orders, or authority, for concluding several of those articles, which are most prejudicial
to your Majesty's subjects; we have thought we could do no less than declare your said ambassador,
who negotiated and signed, and all others who advised the ratifying of this treaty, enemies
to your Majesty and to your kingdom.

"Upon these faithful informations, and advices from your Commons, we assure ourselves your
Majesty, in your great goodness to your people, will rescue them from those evils, which the
private counsels of ill-designing men have exposed them to; and that in your great wisdom you
will find some means for the explaining, and amending, the several articles of this treaty,
so as that they may consist with the interest of Great Britain, and with real and lasting friendship
between your Majesty and the States General."[21]

[Footnote 21: This Representation was presented to Her Majesty March 4th, 171-1/2 and answered
March 5th. [N.]]

Between the Representation and the first debates upon the subject of it, several weeks had
passed; during which time the Parliament had other matters likewise before them, that deserve
to be mentioned. For on the ninth of February was repealed the Act for Naturalizing Foreign
Protestants, which had been passed under the last ministry, and, as many people thought, to
very ill purposes. By this Act any foreigner, who would take the oaths to the government, and
profess himself a Protestant, of whatever denomination, was immediately naturalized, and had
all the privileges of an English born subject, at the expense of a shilling.[22] Most Protestants
abroad differ from us in the points of church government; so that all the acquisitions by this
Act would increase the number of Dissenters; and therefore the proposal, that such foreigners
should be obliged to conform to the established worship, was rejected. But because several
persons were fond of this project, as a thing that would be of mighty advantage to the kingdom,
I shall say a few words upon it.

[Footnote 22: See "The Examiner," Nos. 26 and 45, in vol. ix. of this edition. [W.S.J.]]

The maxim, "That people are the riches of a nation," hath been crudely understood by many writers
and reasoners upon that subject. There are several ways by which people are brought into a
country. Sometimes a nation is invaded and subdued; and the conquerors seize the lands, and
make the natives their under-tenants or servants. Colonies have been always planted where the
natives were driven out or destroyed, or the land uncultivated and waste. In those countries
where the lord of the soil is master of the labour and liberty of his tenants, or of slaves
bought by his money, men's riches are reckoned by the number of their vassals. And sometimes,
in governments newly instituted, where there are not people to till the ground, many laws have
been made to encourage and allure numbers from the neighbouring countries. And, in all these
cases, the new comers have either lands allotted them, or are slaves to the proprietors. But
to invite helpless families, by thousands, into a kingdom inhabited like ours, without lands
to give them, and where the laws will not allow that they should be part of the property as
servants, is a wrong application of the maxim, and the same thing, in great, as infants dropped
at the doors, which are only a burthen and charge to the parish. The true way of multiplying
mankind to public advantage, in such a country as England, is to invite from abroad only able
handicraftsmen and artificers, or such who bring over a sufficient share of property to secure
them from want; to enact and enforce sumptuary laws against luxury, and all excesses in clothing,
furniture, and the like; to encourage matrimony, and reward, as the Romans did, those who have
a certain number of children. Whether bringing over the Palatines were a mere consequence of
this law for a general naturalization; or whether, as many surmised, it had some other meaning,
it appeared manifestly, by the issue, that the public was a loser by every individual among
them; and that a kingdom can no more be the richer by such an importation, than a man can be
fatter by a wen, which is unsightly and troublesome, at best, and intercepts that nourishment,
which would otherwise diffuse itself through the whole body.

About a fortnight after, the Commons sent up a bill for securing the freedom of Parliaments,
by limiting the number of Members in that House who should be allowed to possess employments
under the crown.[23] Bills to the same effect, promoted by both parties, had, after making
the like progress, been rejected in former Parliaments; the court and ministry, who will ever
be against such a law, having usually a greater influence in the House of Lords, and so it
happened now. Although that influence were less, I am apt to think that such a law would be
too thorough a reformation in one point, while we have so many corruptions in the rest; and
perhaps the regulations, already made on that article, are sufficient, by which several employments
incapacitate a man from being chosen a Member, and all of them bring it to a new election.[24]

[Footnote 23: This self-denying ordinance easily passed through the House of Commons, where
probably men were ashamed of opposing it; and in such a temper were the Peers, in whose House
the ministry proposed to make the stand, that it was very likely to have passed there also.
But an amendment was ingeniously thrown in, to suspend the operation of the proposed Act until
after the Queen's death; so that it was evaded for the present, and never again revived. [S.]
The Bill was rejected February 29th, 171-1/2. [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 24: P. Fitzgerald adds, "Neither do I believe any man who truly understands and loves
our constitution will imagine that the prerogative hath not been sufficiently humbled within
twenty years past." [W.S.J.]]

For my own part, when I consider the temper of particular persons, and by what maxims they
have acted (almost without exception) in their private capacities, I cannot conceive how such
a bill should obtain a majority, unless every man expected to be one of the fifty, which, I
think, was the limitation intended.

About the same time, likewise, the House of Commons advanced one considerable step towards
securing us against farther impositions from our allies, resolving that the additional forces
should be continued; but with a condition, that the Dutch should make good their proportion
of three-fifths to two-fifths, which those confederates had so long, and in so great degree,
neglected. The Duke of Marlborough's deduction of two and a half per cent., from the pay of
the foreign troops, was also applied for carrying on the war.[25]

[Footnote 25: In the "Journals of the House of Commons," vol. xvii., pp. 15-18, the Report
of the Commissioners is printed, in which is included the Duke's justification of his conduct.
See above, p. 85. [N.]]

Lastly, within this period is to be included the Act passed to prevent the disturbing those
of the Episcopal Communion in Scotland[26] in the exercise of their religious worship, and
in the use of the liturgy of the Church of England.[27] It is known enough, that the most considerable
of the nobility and gentry there, as well as great numbers of the people, dread the tyrannical
discipline of those synods and presbyteries; and at the same time have the utmost contempt
for the abilities and tenets of their teachers. It was besides thought an inequality, beyond
all appearance of reason or justice, that Dissenters of every denomination here, who are the
meanest and most illiterate part amongst us, should possess a toleration by law, under colour
of which they might, upon occasion, be bold enough to insult the religion established, while
those of the Episcopal Church in Scotland[28] groaned under a real persecution. The only specious
objection against this bill was, that it set the religion by law, in both parts of the island,
upon a different foot, directly contrary to the Union; because, by an Act passed this very
session against occasional conformity, our Dissenters were shut out from all employments. A
petition from Carstares, and other Scotch professors, against this bill, was offered to the
House, but not accepted; and a motion made by the other party, to receive a clause that should
restrain all persons, who have any office in Scotland,[28] from going to episcopal meetings,
passed in the negative. It is manifest, that the promoters of this clause were not moved by
any regard for Scotland,[28] which is by no means their favourite at present; only they hoped,
that, if it were made part of a law, it might occasion such a choice of representatives in
both Houses, from Scotland,[28] as would be a considerable strength to their faction here.
But the proposition was in itself extremely absurd, that so many lords, and other persons of
distinction, who have great employments, pensions, posts in the army, and other places of profit,
many of whom are in frequent or constant attendance at the court, and utterly dislike their
national way of worship, should be deprived of their liberty of conscience at home; not to
mention those who are sent thither from hence to take care of the revenue, and other affairs,
who would ill digest the changing of their religion for that of Scotland.[28]

With a farther view of favour towards the episcopal clergy of Scotland,[28] three Members of
that country were directed to bring in a bill for restoring the patrons to their ancient rights
of presenting ministers to the vacant churches there, which the kirk, during the height of
their power, had obtained for themselves[29] And, to conclude this subject at once, the Queen,
at the close of the session, commanded Mr Secretary St John to acquaint the House, "That, pursuant
to their address, the profits arising from the bishops' estates in Scotland, which remained
in the crown, should be applied to the support of such of the episcopal clergy there, as would
take the oaths to Her Majesty."[30]

[Footnote 26: P. Fitzgerald says "North Britain." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 27: The "Act to prevent," etc. (10 Ann. c. 10) was ordered January 21st, and received
the Royal Assent March 3rd, 171-1/2, [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 28: P. Fitzgerald says "North Britain." [W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 29: The Scotch Patronage Bill was ordered March 13th, [1711], passed April 7th, and
received the Royal Assent May 22nd, 1712 (10 Ann c 21). It did not refer to the Episcopal Church.
[W.S.J.]

The Church of Scotland viewed the bills for restoring to the gentry the right of patronage,
and for tolerating the exercise of the Episcopal persuasion, with great jealousy. The Reverend
Mr William Carstares, who had been secretary to King William, and was Principal of the College
of Edinburgh, was deputed to go to London at the head of a commission of the church, to oppose
the bills while in dependence. His biographer has justly remarked, that these enactments considered
at the time as fatal to the interests of Presbytery in Scotland, have, upon experience, proved
her best security.

"Upon the one hand, the Act of Toleration, by taking the weapon of offence out of the hands
of the Presbyterians, removed the chief grounds of those resentments which the friends of prelacy
entertained against them, and in a few years almost annihilated Episcopacy in Scotland Upon
the other hand, the Act restoring Patronages, by restoring the nobility and gentlemen of property
to then wonted influence in the settlement of the clergy, reconciled numbers of them to the
established church, who had conceived the most violent prejudices against that mode of election,
and against the Presbyterian clergy, who were settled upon it. It is likewise an incontestable
fact, that, from the date of these two Acts, the Church of Scotland has enjoyed a state of
tranquillity to which she was an utter stranger before." (Life of Carstares, prefixed to Carstares's
"State Papers," 1774, p 85) [S]]

[Footnote 30: This message was reported to the House of Commons June 19th, 1712. [W.S.J]]

Nothing could more amply justify the proceedings of the Queen and her ministers, for two years
past, than that famous Representation above at large recited, the unbiassed wisdom of the nation,
after the strictest inquiry, confirming those facts upon which Her Majesty's counsels were
grounded and many persons, who were before inclined to believe that the allies and the late
ministry had been too much loaded by the malice, misrepresentations, or ignorance of writers,
were now fully convinced of their mistake by so great an authority. Upon this occasion I cannot
forbear doing justice to Mr. St. John,[31] who had been secretary of war, for several years,
under the former administration, where he had the advantage of observing how affairs were managed
both at home and abroad. He was one of those who shared in the present treasurer's fortune,
resigning his employment at the same time; and upon that minister's being again taken into
favour, this gentleman was some time after made secretary of state. There he began afresh,
by the opportunities of his station, to look into past miscarriages; and, by the force of an
extraordinary genius, and application to public affairs, joined with an invincible eloquence,
laid open the scene of miscarriages and corruptions through the whole course of the war, in
so evident a manner, that the House of Commons seemed principally directed in their resolutions,
upon this inquiry, by his information and advice. In a short time after the Representation
was published, there appeared a memorial in the Dutch "Gazette," as by order of the States,
reflecting very much upon the said Representation, as well as the resolutions on which it was
founded, pretending to deny some of the facts, and to extenuate others. This memorial, translated
into English, a common writer of news had the boldness to insert in one of his papers. A complaint
being made thereof to the House of Commons, they voted the pretended memorial to be a false,
scandalous, malicious libel, and ordered the printer to be taken into custody.[32]

[Footnote 31: See his character in Swift's "Enquiry," vol. v., pp. 430-431, of this edition.
[W.S.J.]]

[Footnote 32: The memorial appeared in the "Daily Courant" of 7th and 8th April, for which
Samuel Buckley, the writer and printer, was ordered by the House of Commons to be taken into
custody on April 11th. [W.S.J.]]

It was the misfortune of the ministers, that while they were baited by their professed adversaries
of the discontented faction, acting in confederacy with emissaries of foreign powers, to break
the measures Her Majesty had taken towards a peace, they met at the same time with frequent
difficulties from those who agreed and engaged with them to pursue the same general end; but
sometimes disapproved the methods as too slack and remiss, or, in appearance, now and then
perhaps a little dubious. In the first session of this Parliament, a considerable number of
gentlemen, all members of the House of Commons, began to meet by themselves, and consult what
course they ought to steer in this new world. They intended to revive a new country party in
Parliament, which might, as in former times, oppose the court in any proceedings they disliked.
The whole body was of such who profess what is commonly called high-church principles, upon
which account they were irreconcilable enemies to the late ministry and all its adherents.
On the other side, considering the temper of the new men in power, that they were persons who
had formerly moved between the two extremes, those gentlemen, who were impatient for an entire
change, and to see all their adversaries laid at once as low as the dust, began to be apprehensive
that the work would be done by halves. But the juncture of affairs at that time, both at home
and abroad, would by no means admit of the least precipitation, although the Queen and her
first minister had been disposed to it, which certainly they were not. Neither did the court
seem at all uneasy at this league, formed in appearance against it, but composed of honest
gentlemen who wished well to their country, in which both were entirely agreed, although they
might differ about the means; or if such a society should begin to grow resty, nothing was
easier than to divide them, and render all their endeavours ineffectual.[33]

[Footnote 33: See Swift's "Advice to Members of the October Club," vol. v., pp. 207-225. [W.S.J.]]

But in the course of that first session, many of this society became gradually reconciled to
the new ministry, whom they found to be greater objects of the common enemy's hatred than themselves;
and the attempt of Guiscard, as it gained farther time for deferring the disposal of employments,
so it much endeared that person to the kingdom, who was so near falling a sacrifice to the
safety of his country. Upon the last session of which I am now writing, this October Club (as
it was called) renewed their usual meetings, but were now very much altered from their original
institution, and seemed to have wholly dropped the design, as of no further use. They saw a
point carried in the House of Lords against the court, that would end in the ruin of the kingdom;
and they observed the enemy's whole artillery directly levelled at the treasurer's head. In
short, the majority of the club had so good an understanding with the great men at court, that
two of the latter,[34] to shew to the world how fair a correspondence there was between the
court and country party, consented to be at one of their dinners; but this intercourse had
an event very different from what was expected: for immediately the more zealous members of
that society broke off from the rest, and composed a new one, made up of gentlemen, who seemed
to expect little of the court; and perhaps, with a mixture of others who thought themselves
disappointed, or too long delayed.[35] Many of these were observed to retain an incurable jealousy
of the treasurer, and to interpret all delays, which they could not comprehend, as a reserve
of favour in this minister to the persons and principles of the abandoned party.

[Footnote 34: Mr. St. John and Mr. Bromley. [N.]]

[Footnote 35: This was called the March Club, but did not long subsist. It seems probable that
it included those Tories whose principles went the length of Jacobitism. [S.]]

Upon an occasion offered about this time, some persons, out of distrust to the treasurer, endeavoured
to obtain a point, which could not have been carried without putting all into confusion. A
Bill was brought into the House of Commons, appointing commissioners to examine into the value
of all lands, and other interests granted by the crown since the thirteenth day of February,
one thousand six hundred and eighty-eight, and upon what considerations such grants had been
made. The united country interest in the House was extremely set upon passing this Bill. They
had conceived an opinion from former precedents, that the court would certainly oppose all
steps towards a resumption of grants; and those who were apprehensive that the treasurer inclined
the same way, proposed the Bill should be tacked to another, for raising a fund by duties upon
soap and paper, which hath been always imputed, whether justly or no, as a favourite expedient
of those called the Tory party. At the same time it was very well known, that the House of
Lords had made a fixed and unanimous resolution against giving their concurrence to the passing
such united bills: so that the consequences of this project must have been to bring the ministry
under difficulties, to stop the necessary supplies, and endanger the good correspondence between
both Houses; notwithstanding all which the majority carried it for a tack; and the committee
was instructed accordingly to make the two Bills into one, whereby the worst that could happen
would have followed, if the treasurer had not convinced the warm leaders in this affair, by
undeniable reasons, that the means they were using would certainly disappoint the end; that
neither himself, nor any other of the Queen's servants, were at all against this enquiry; and
he promised his utmost credit to help forward the bill in the House of Lords. He prevailed
at last to have it sent up single; but their lordships gave it another kind of reception. Those
who were of the side opposite to the court, withstood it to a man, as in a party case: among
the rest, some very personally concerned, and others by friends and relations, which they supposed
a sufficient excuse to be absent, or dissent. Even those, whose grants were antecedent to this
intended inspection, began to be alarmed as men, whose neighbours' houses are on fire. A shew
of zeal for the late king's honour, occasioned many reflections upon the date of this enquiry,
which was to commence with his reign: and the Earl of Nottingham, who had now flung away the
mask which he had lately pulled off, like one who had no other view but that of vengeance against
the Queen and her friends, acted consistently enough with his design, by voting as a lord against
the Bill, after he had directed his son in the House of Commons to vote for the tack.

Thus miscarried this popular Bill for appointing commissioners to examine into royal grants;
but whether those chiefly concerned did rightly consult their own interest, hath been made
a question, which perhaps time will resolve. It was agreed that the Queen, by her own authority,
might have issued out a commission for such an enquiry, and every body believed, that the intention
of the Parliament was only to tax the grants with about three years' purchase, and at the same
time establish the proprietors in possession of the remainder for ever; so that, upon the whole,
the grantees would have been great gainers by such an Act, since the titles of those lands,
as they stood then, were hardly of half value with others either for sale or settlement. Besides,
the examples of the Irish forfeitures might have taught these precarious owners, that when
the House of Commons hath once engaged in a pursuit, which they think is right, although it
be stopped or suspended for a while, they will be sure to renew it upon every opportunity that
offers, and seldom fail of success: for instance, if the resumption should happen to be made
part of a supply, which can be easily done without the objection of a tack, the grantees might
possibly then have much harder conditions given them; and I do not see how they could prevent
it. Whether the resuming of royal grants be consistent with good policy or justice, would be
too long a disquisition: besides, the profusion of kings is not like to be a grievance for
the future, because there have been laws since made to provide against that evil, or, indeed,
rather because the crown has nothing left to give away. But the objection made against the
date of the intended enquiry was invidious and trifling; for King James II. made very few grants:
he was a better manager, and squandering was none of his faults; whereas the late king, who
came over here a perfect stranger to our laws, and to our people, regardless of posterity,
wherein he was not likely to survive, thought he could no way better strengthen a new title,
than by purchasing friends at the expense of every thing which was in his power to part with.

The reasonableness of uniting to a money bill one of a different nature, which is usually called
tacking hath been likewise much debated, and will admit of argument enough. In ancient times,
when a Parliament was held, the Commons first proposed their grievances to be redressed, and
then gave their aids; so that it was a perfect bargain between the king and the subject. This
fully answered the ends of tacking. Aids were then demanded upon occasions which would hardly
pass at present; such, for instance, as those for making the king's son a knight, marrying
his eldest daughter, and some others of the like sort. Most of the money went into the king's
coffers for his private use; neither was he accountable for any part of it. Hence arose the
form of the king's thanking his subjects for their benevolence, when any subsidies, tenths,
or fifteenths were given him: but the supplies now granted are of another nature, and cannot
be properly called a particular benefit to the crown, because they are all appropriated to
their several uses: so that when the House of Commons tack to a money bill what is foreign
and hard to be digested, if it be not passed, they put themselves and their country in as great
difficulties as the prince. On the other side, there have been several regulations made, through
the course of time, in parliamentary proceedings; among which it is grown a rule, that a Bill
once rejected shall not be brought up again the same session; whereby the Commons seem to have
lost the advantage of purchasing a redress of their grievances, by granting supplies, which,
upon some emergencies, hath put them upon this expedient of tacking: so that there is more
to be said on each side of the case, than is convenient for me to trouble the reader or myself
in deducing.

Among the matters of importance during this session, we may justly number the proceedings of
the House of Commons with relation to the press, since Her Majesty's message to the House,
of January the seventeenth, concludes with a paragraph, representing the great licences taken
in publishing false and scandalous libels, such as are a reproach to any government; and recommending
to them to find a remedy equal to the mischief. The meaning of these words in the message,
seems to be confined to these weekly and daily papers and pamphlets, reflecting upon the persons
and the management of the ministry.

[Footnote 36: Mr. Secretary St. John, now Lord Viscount Bolingbroke. [ORIGINAL NOTE.]]

It must be acknowledged, that the bad practices of printers have been such, as to deserve the
severest animadversions of the public; and it is to be wished, the party quarrels of the pen
were always managed with decency and truth: but in the mean time, to open the mouths of our
enemies and shut our own, is a turn of politics that wants a little to be explained. Perhaps
the ministry now in possession, because they are in possession, may despise such trifles as
this; and it is not to be denied, that acting as they do upon a national interest, they may
seem to stand in less need of such supports, or may safely fling them down as no longer necessary.
But if the leaders of the other party had proceeded by this maxim, their power would have been
none at all, or of very short duration: and had not some active pens fallen in to improve the
good dispositions of the people, upon the late change, and continued since to overthrow the
falsehood, plentifully, and sometimes not unplausibly, scattered by the adversaries, I am very
much in doubt, whether those at the helm would now have reason to be pleased with their success.
A particular person may, with more safety, despise the opinion of the vulgar, because it does
a wise man no real harm or good, but the administration a great deal; and whatever side has
the sole management of the pen, will soon find hands enough to write down their enemies as
low as they please. If the people had no other idea of those whom Her Majesty trusts in her
greatest affairs, than what is conveyed by the passions of such as would compass sea and land
for their destruction, what could they expect, but to be torn in pieces by the rage of the
multitude? How necessary therefore was it, that the world should, from time to time, be undeceived
by true representations of persons and facts, which have kept the kingdom steady to its interest,
against all the attacks of a cunning and virulent faction. However it came about, this affair
was put off from one week to another, and the Bill not brought into the House till the eighth
of June. It was committed three days, and then heard of no more.

Having given an account of the several steps made towards a peace, from the first overtures
begun by France, to the commencement of the second session, I shall in the Fourth Book relate
the particulars of this great negotiation, from the period last mentioned to the present time;
and because there happened some passages in both Houses, occasioned by the treaty, I shall
take notice of them under that head. There only remains to be mentioned one affair of another
nature, which the Lords and Commons took into their cognizance, after a very different manner,
wherewith I shall close this part of my subject.

The sect of Quakers amongst us, whose system of religion, first founded upon enthusiasm, hath
been many years growing into a craft, held it an unlawful action to take an oath to a magistrate.
This doctrine was taught them by the author of their sect, from a literal application of the
text, "Swear not at all;" but being a body of people, wholly turned to trade and commerce of
all kinds, they found themselves on many occasions deprived of the benefit of the law, as well
as of voting at elections, by a foolish scruple, which their obstinacy would not suffer them
to get over. To prevent this inconvenience, these people had credit enough in the late reign
to have an Act passed, that their solemn affirmation and declaration should be accepted, instead
of an oath in the usual form. The great concern in those times, was to lay all religion upon
a level; in order to which, this maxim was advanced, "That no man ought to be denied the liberty
of serving his country upon account of a different belief in speculative opinions," under which
term some people were apt to include every doctrine of Christianity: however, this Act, in
favour of the Quakers, was only temporary, in order to keep them in constant dependence, and
expired of course after a certain term, if it were not continued. Those people had, therefore,
very early in the session, offered a petition to the House of Commons for a continuance of
the Act, which was not suffered to be brought up; upon this they applied themselves to the
Lords, who passed a Bill accordingly, and sent it down to the Commons, where it was not so
much as allowed a first reading.

