The next day the young Prince sought in vain for the White Fawn, and finally tired out threw
himself upon the grass and fell asleep.

While he lay there the little Fawn drew near and looking at him quietly, to her astonishment
she recognised his features as those of the Prince Guerrier. Coming nearer and nearer she presently
touched him and he awoke.

His surprise was great at seeing close by the shy little Fawn, who stayed not an instant longer
but fled away, the Prince following.

"Stay, dear little Fawn," he cried, "I would not hurt you for the world." But the wind carried
off the words before they reached her ears. Long he chased the poor creature, till at last
worn out the Fawn sank down on the ground and the Prince came up to her.

"Beautiful Fawn," said he, "do not fear me, I shall lead you with me everywhere." Then he covered
her with roses and fed her with the choicest leaves and grasses.

But as evening drew near the Fawn longed to escape, for what would happen should she suddenly
change into a Princess there in the forest. Presently the Prince went to fetch some water for
her, and while he was gone she ran homewards. The next day for a long time she hid from the
Prince, but at last he found her, and as she dashed off he shot an arrow which wounded her
in the leg.

Sad that he should have done so cruel a thing, the Prince took herbs and laid them upon the
wound, and at last he went to fetch Bécafigue to help him carry her to the house. He tied her
to a tree.

Alas! Who would have thought that the most beautiful Princess in the world would be treated
thus? While she was straining at the ribbons trying to break them, Giroflée arrived, and was
leading her away when the Prince met them and claimed the Fawn as his.

"Sir," politely replied Giroflée, "the Fawn was mine before it was yours," and she spoke to
the Fawn, and the Fawn obeyed her in such a way that the Prince could not doubt that what she
said was true. Giroflée then went on, and, to the surprise of the Prince and Bécafigue, entered
the old woman's house where they themselves lodged. Then Bécafigue told the Prince that unless
he was much mistaken the owner of the Fawn had lived with the Princess Desirée when he went
there as ambassador.

"I mean to see her again," said Bécafigue, "there is only a partition between her room and
ours." And soon he had made a hole large enough to peep through, and through it he saw the
charming Princess dressed in a robe of brocaded silver, with flowers embroidered in gold and
emeralds, her hair falling in heavy masses on the most beautiful neck in the world. Giroflée
was on her knees before her, bandaging up one arm from which the blood was flowing. They both
seemed greatly concerned about the wound: "Let me die," the Princess was saying, "death would
be better than the life which I lead. To be a Fawn all the day, to hear him speaking, and not
to be able to tell him of my sad fate."

One can guess the astonishment of Bécafigue and of the Prince. Guerrier would almost have died
of pleasure had he not thought that it must be some enchantment, for did he not know that Desirée
and her Lady in Waiting were shut up in the castle.

He went softly and knocked at the chamber door, which Giroflée opened, thinking it was the
old woman, for she required help for the wounded arm.

The Prince entered, threw himself at Desirée's feet, and found she was indeed his Princess.

Great was their joy thus at last meeting, and while they were talking to each other the night
passed, and the day dawned, and daylight came, and the morning sun shone brightly before Desirée
had time to notice that she had not again taken the shape of a Fawn, but was her own beautiful
self.

Then it was found that it was the Fairy Tulip in disguise of the old woman who had provided
that sheltering cottage in the forest.

The joy of the King upon once more seeing his son can well be imagined, and the marriage of
the Prince and Desirée, and Bécafigue and Giroflée took place on the same day, the Fairies
giving their diamond palace as their wedding present to Princess Desirée, and Fairy Tulip presenting
four gold mines in the Indies to Giroflée.

And, in accordance with the wish of Princess Desirée, Longue Epine and her mother, the false
Lady in Waiting, were set at liberty.

Snow-White was more gentle, and quieter than her sister, who liked better skipping about the
fields, seeking flowers, and catching summer birds; while Snow-White stayed at home with her
mother, either helping her in her work, or, when that was done, reading aloud.

The two children had the greatest affection the one for the other. They were always seen hand
in hand; and should Snow-White say to her sister, "We will never separate," the other would
reply, "Not while we live," the mother adding, "That which one has, let her always share with
the other."

They constantly ran together in the woods, collecting ripe berries; but not a single animal
would have injured them; quite the reverse, they all felt the greatest esteem for the young
creatures. The hare came to eat parsley from their hands, the deer grazed by their side, the
stag bounded past them unheeding; the birds, likewise, did not stir from the bough, but sang
in entire security. No mischance befell them; if benighted in the wood, they lay down on the
moss to repose and sleep till the morning; and their mother was satisfied as to their safety,
and felt no fear about them.

Once, when they had spent the night in the wood, and the bright sunrise awoke them, they saw
a beautiful child, in a snow-white robe, shining like diamonds, sitting close to the spot where
they had reposed. She arose when they opened their eyes, and looked kindly at them; but said
no word, and passed from their sight into the wood. When the children looked around they saw
they had been sleeping on the edge of a precipice, and would surely have fallen over if they
had gone forward two steps further in the darkness. In summer-time Rose-Red attended to the
house, and every morning, before her mother awoke, placed by her bed a bouquet which had in
it a rose from each of the rose-trees. In winter-time Snow-White set light to the fire, and
put on the kettle, after polishing it until it was like gold for brightness. In the evening,
when snow was falling, her mother would bid her bolt the door, and then, sitting by the hearth,
the good widow would read aloud to them from a big book while the little girls were spinning.
Close by them lay a lamb, and a white pigeon, with its head tucked under its wing, was on a
perch behind.

One evening, as they were all sitting cosily together like this, there was a knock at the door,
as if someone wished to come in.

"Make haste, Rose-Red!" said her mother; "open the door; it is surely some traveller seeking
shelter." Rose-Red accordingly pulled back the bolt, expecting to see some poor man. But it
was nothing of the kind; it was a bear, that thrust his big head in at the open door. Rose-Red
cried out and sprang back, the lamb bleated, the dove fluttered her wings and Snow-White hid
herself behind her mother's bed. The bear began speaking, and said, "Do not be afraid: I will
not do you any harm; I am half-frozen, and would like to warm myself a little at your fire."

"Poor bear!" the mother replied; "come in and lie by the fire; only be careful that your hair
is not burnt." Then she called Snow-White and Rose-Red, telling them that the bear was kind,
and would not harm them. They came, as she bade them, and presently the lamb and the dove drew
near also without fear.

"Children," begged the bear; "knock some of the snow off my coat." So they brought the broom
and brushed the bear's coat quite clean.

After that he stretched himself out in front of the fire, and pleased himself by growling a
little, only to show that he was happy and comfortable. Before long they were all quite good
friends, and the children began to play with their unlooked for visitor, pulling his thick
fur, or placing their feet on his back, or rolling him over and over. Then they took a slender
hazel twig, using it upon his thick coat, and they laughed when he growled. The bear permitted
them to amuse themselves in this way, only occasionally calling out, when it went a little
too far, "Children, spare me an inch of life!"

When it was night, and all were making ready to go to bed, the widow told the bear, "You may
stay here and lie by the hearth, if you like, so that you will be sheltered from the cold and
from the bad weather."

The offer was accepted, but when morning came, as the day broke in the east, the two children
let him out, and over the snow he went back into the wood.

After this, every evening at the same time the bear came, lay by the fire, and allowed the
children to play with him; so they became quite fond of their curious playmate, and the door
was not ever bolted in the evening until he had appeared.

When springtime came, and all around began to look green and bright, one morning the bear said
to Snow-White, "Now I must leave you, and all the summer long I shall not be able to come back."

"Where, then, are you going, dear bear?" asked Snow-White. "I have to go to the woods to protect
my treasure from the bad dwarfs. In winter time when the earth is frozen hard, they must remain
underground, and cannot make their way through; but now that the sunshine has thawed the earth
they can come to the surface, and whatever gets into their hands, or is brought to their caves,
seldom, if ever, again sees daylight."

Snow-White was very sad when she said good-bye to the good-natured beast, and unfastened the
door, that he might go; but in going out he was caught by a hook in the lintel, and a scrap
of his fur being torn, Snow-White thought there was something shining like gold through the
rent; but he went out so quickly that she could not feel certain what it was, and soon he was
hidden among the trees.

One day the mother sent her children into the wood to pick up sticks. They found a big tree
lying on the ground. It had been felled, and towards the roots they noticed something skipping
and springing, which they could not make out, as it was sometimes hidden in the grasses. As
they came nearer they could see it was a dwarf, with a shrivelled up face and a snow-white
beard an ell long. The beard was fixed in a gash in the tree trunk, and the tiny fellow was
hopping to and fro, like a dog at the end of a string, but he could not manage to free himself.
He stared at the children, with his red, fiery eyes, and called out, "Why are you standing
there? Can't you come and try to help me?"

"What were you doing, little fellow?" enquired Rose-Red.

"Stupid, inquisitive goose!" replied the dwarf; "I meant to split the trunk, so that I could
chop it up for kitchen sticks; big logs would burn up the small quantity of food we cook, for
people like us do not consume great heaps of food, as you heavy, greedy folk do. The bill-hook
I had driven in, and soon I should have done what I required; but the tool suddenly sprang
from the cleft, which so quickly shut up again that it caught my handsome white beard; and
here I must stop, for I cannot set myself free. You stupid, pale-faced creatures! You laugh,
do you?"

In spite of the dwarf's bad temper, the girls took all possible pains to release the little
man, but without avail; the beard could not be moved, it was wedged too tightly.

"I will run and get someone else," said Rose-Red.

"Idiot!" cried the dwarf. "Who would go and get more people? Already there are two too many.
Can't you think of something better?"

"Don't be so impatient," said Snow-White. "I will try to think." She clapped her hands as if
she had discovered a remedy, took out her scissors, and in a moment set the dwarf free by cutting
off the end of his beard.

Immediately the dwarf felt that he was free he seized a sackful of gold that was hidden among
the tree roots, and, lifting it up, grumbled out, "Clumsy creatures, to cut off a bit of my
beautiful beard, of which I am so proud! I leave the cuckoos to pay you for what you did."
Saying this, he swung the sack across his shoulder and went off without even casting a glance
at the children.

Not long afterwards the two sisters went to angle in the brook, meaning to catch fish for dinner.
As they were drawing near the water they perceived something, looking like a large grasshopper,
springing towards the stream, as if it were going in. They hurried up to see what it might
be, and found that it was the dwarf. "Where are you going?" said Rose-Red. "Surely you will
not jump into the water?"

"I'm not such a simpleton as that!" yelled the little man. "Don't you see that a wretch of
a fish is pulling me in?"

The dwarf had been sitting angling from the side of the stream when, by ill-luck, the wind
had entangled his beard in his line, and just afterwards a big fish taking the bait, the unamiable
little fellow had not sufficient strength to pull it out; so the fish had the advantage, and
was dragging the dwarf after it. Certainly he caught at every stalk and spray near him, but
that did not assist him greatly; he was forced to follow all the twistings of the fish, and
was perpetually in danger of being drawn into the brook.

The girls arrived just in time. They caught hold of him firmly, and endeavoured to untwist
his beard from the line, but in vain; it was too tightly entangled. There was nothing left
but again to make use of the scissors; so they were taken out, and the tangled portion was cut off.

When the dwarf noticed what they were about, he exclaimed, in a great rage, "Is this how you
damage my beard? Not content with making it shorter before, you are now making it still smaller,
and completely spoiling it. I shall not ever dare to show my face to my friends. I wish you
had missed your way before you took this road." Then he fetched a sack of pearls that lay among
the rushes, and saying not another word, hobbled off and disappeared behind a large stone.

Soon after this it chanced that the poor widow sent her children to the town to purchase cotton,
needles, ribbon and tape. The way to the town ran over a common on which in every direction
large masses of rocks were scattered about. The children's attention was soon attracted to
a big bird that hovered in the air. They remarked that after circling slowly for a time, and
gradually getting nearer to the ground, it all of a sudden pounced down amongst a mass of rock.
Instantly a heart-rending cry reached their ears, and, running quickly to the place, they saw,
with horror, that the eagle had seized their former acquaintance, the dwarf, and was just about
to carry him off. The kind children did not hesitate for an instant. They took a firm hold
of the little man, they strove so stoutly with the eagle for possession of his contemplated
prey, that, after much rough treatment on both sides, the dwarf was left in the hands of his
brave little friends, and the eagle took to flight.

As soon as the little man had in some measure recovered from his alarm, his small, squeaky,
cracked voice was heard saying, "Couldn't you have held me more gently? See my little coat;
you have rent and damaged it in a fine manner, you clumsy, officious things!" Then he picked
up a sack of jewels, and slipped out of sight behind a piece of rock.

The maidens by this time were quite used to his ungrateful, ungracious ways; so they took no
notice of it, but went on their way, made their purchases, and then were ready to return to
their happy home.

On their way back, suddenly, once more they ran across their dwarf friend.

Upon a clear space he had turned out his sack of jewels, so that he could count and admire
them, for he had not imagined that anybody would at so late an hour be coming across the common.
The setting sun was shining upon the brilliant stones, and their changing hues and sparkling
rays caused the children to pause to admire them also.

"What are you gazing at?" cried the dwarf, at the same time becoming red with rage; "and what
are you standing there for, making ugly faces?"

It is probable that he might have proceeded in the same complimentary manner, but suddenly
a great growl was heard near by them, and a big bear joined the party. Up jumped the dwarf
in extremest terror, but could not get to his hiding-place, the bear was too close to him;
so he cried out in very evident anguish--

"Dear Mr. Bear, forgive me, I pray! I will render to you all my treasure. Just see those precious
stones lying there! Grant me my life! What would you do with such an insignificant little fellow?
You would not notice me between your teeth. See, though, those two children, they would be
delicate morsels, and are as plump as partridges; I beg of you to take them, good Mr. Bear,
and let me go."

But the bear would not be moved by his speeches. He gave the ill-disposed creature a blow with
his paw, and he lay lifeless on the ground. Meanwhile, the maidens were running away, making
off for home as well as they could; but all of a sudden they were stopped by a well-known voice
that called out, "Snow-White, Rose-Red, stay! Do not fear. I will accompany you."

The bear quickly came towards them, but as he reached their side, suddenly the bear-skin slipped
to the ground, and there before them was standing a handsome man, completely garmented in gold,
who said, "I am a king's son, who was enchanted by the wicked dwarf lying over there. He stole
my treasure, and compelled me to roam the woods transformed into a big bear until his death
should set me free. Therefore he has only received a well-deserved punishment."

The old mother spent many happy years with her children. The two rose-trees she took with her
when she left the cottage, and they grew in front of her window, where they continued to bear
each year the most beautiful roses, red and white.

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY

Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who had no children; and this they lamented very
much. But one day, as the queen was walking by the side of the river, a little fish lifted
its head out of the water, and said, "Your wish shall be fulfilled, and you shall soon have
a daughter."

What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass; and the Queen had a little girl who was
so very beautiful that the king could not cease looking on her for joy, and determined to hold
a great feast. So he invited not only his relations, friends, and neighbours, but also all
the fairies, that they might be kind and good to his little daughter. Now there were thirteen
fairies in his kingdom, and he had only twelve golden dishes for them to eat out of, so that
he was obliged to leave one of the fairies without an invitation. The rest came, and after
the feast was over they gave all their best gifts to the little princess; one gave her virtue,
another beauty, another riches, and so on till she had all that was excellent in the world.
When eleven had done blessing her, the thirteenth, who had not been invited, and was very angry
on that account, came in, and determined to take her revenge. So she cried out, "The King's
daughter shall in her fifteenth year be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead." Then the
twelfth, who had not yet given her gift, came forward and said that the bad wish must be fulfilled,
but that she could soften it, and that the king's daughter should not die, but fall asleep
for a hundred years.

But the king hoped to save his dear child from the threatened evil, and ordered that all the
spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and destroyed. All the fairies' gifts were in the
meantime fulfilled; for the princess was so beautiful, and well-behaved, and amiable, and wise,
that everyone who knew her loved her. Now it happened that on the very day she was fifteen
years old the king and queen were not at home, and she was left alone in the palace. So she
roved about by herself, and poked at all the rooms and chambers, till at last she came to an
old tower, to which there was a narrow staircase ending with a little door. In the door there
was a golden key, and when she turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning
away very busily.

"Why, how now, good mother," said the princess, "what are you doing there?"

"Spinning," said the old lady, and nodded her head.

"How prettily that little thing turns round!" said the princess, and took the spindle and began
to spin. But scarcely had she touched it before the prophecy was fulfilled, and she fell down,
as if lifeless, on the ground.

However, she was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep; and the king and queen, who
just then came home, and all their court, fell asleep too, and the horses slept in the stables,
and the dogs in the court, the pigeons on the house-top, and the flies on the walls. Even the
fire on the hearth left off blazing, and went to sleep; and the meat that was roasting stood
still; and the cook, who was at that moment pulling the kitchen-boy by the hair to give him
a box on the ear for something he had done amiss, let him go, and both fell asleep; and so
everything stood still, and slept soundly.

A large hedge of thorns soon grew around the palace, and every year it became higher and thicker,
till at last the whole place was surrounded and hidden, so that not even the roof or the chimneys
could be seen. But there went a report, through all the land, of the beautiful sleeping Briar
Rose (for so was the king's daughter called) so that from time to time several kings' sons
came, and tried to break through the thicket into the palace. This they could never do; for
the thorns and bushes laid hold of them as it were with hands, and there they stuck fast and
died miserably.

After many years came yet another king's son into that land, and an old man told him the story
of the thicket of thorns, and how a beautiful palace stood behind it, in which was a wondrous
princess, called Briar Rose, asleep with all her court. He told, too, how he had heard from
his grandfather that many, many princes had come, and had tried to break through the thicket,
but had stuck fast and died.

Then the young prince said, "All this shall not frighten me; I will go and see Briar Rose."
The old man tried to dissuade him, but he persisted in going.

Now that very day were the hundred years completed; and as the prince came to the thicket he
saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through which he passed with ease, and they closed
after him, as firm as ever. Then he came at last to the palace, and there in the court lay
the dogs asleep, and the horses in the stables, and on the roof sat the pigeons fast asleep
with their heads under their wings; and when he came into the palace, the flies slept on the
walls, and the cook in the kitchen was still holding up her hand as if she would beat the boy,
and the maid with her pail in her hand was going a-milking.

Then he went on still further, and all was so quiet that he could hear every breath he drew;
till at last he came to the old tower and opened the door of the little room in which Briar
Rose was, and there she lay fast asleep, and looked so beautiful that he could not turn his
eyes away, and he stooped down and gave her a kiss. But the moment he kissed her she opened
her eyes and awoke, and smiled upon him. For the spell was broken.

Then they went out together, and presently the king and queen also awoke, and all the court,
and they gazed on each other with great wonder. And the horses got up and shook themselves,
and the dogs jumped about and barked; the pigeons took their heads from under their wings,
and looked around and flew into the fields; the flies on the walls buzzed; the fire in the
kitchen blazed up and cooked the dinner, and the roast meat turned round again; the cook gave
the boy the box on his ear so that he cried out, and the maid went to milk the cows. And then
was the wedding of the prince and Briar Rose celebrated, and they lived happily together all
their lives long.

PRINCE CHÉRI

There was once a king who was such an honourable man that his subjects called him "The Good King."

One day while he was out hunting, a little rabbit that his dogs were about to kill, threw itself
into his arms. The King caressed the little creature, and said:

"As you have put yourself under my protection nobody shall harm you," and he carried the rabbit
to his palace, and ordered a pretty little hutch to be made for it.

That night when he was alone in his room, there appeared a lovely lady. She wore a robe as
white as snow, and a wreath of white roses on her head. She addressed him thus:

"I am the Fairy Candide; I wished to see if you were as good as everybody declares you are,
and for this reason I changed myself into the little rabbit, and ran to you in my distress,
for I know that those who have pity for dumb creatures have still more pity for mankind. I
have come to thank you for what you did and to say that I shall always be your friend, and
will grant any request you would now like to make."

"Madam," replied the King, "I have one only son whom I love devotedly; he is named Prince Chéri;
if you have any good will for me, be a friend to my son."

"Willingly," responded the Fairy, "I will make your son the most handsome prince in the world,
or the richest, or the most powerful; choose which you will for him."

"I desire none of these things," replied the King, "but I shall be very much obliged if you
will make him the best of all princes, for what good would it do to him to be handsome, rich,
or powerful if he were wicked? You know he would be unhappy, for it is only goodness which
brings content."

"You are right," answered the Fairy, "but that I cannot do; Prince Chéri must himself strive
to become good. All that I can promise is that I will give him good advice, and punish him
for his faults, if he will not himself correct them."

And with this the father had to rest content.

Not long afterwards the good King died, and two days later the Fairy appeared to Prince Chéri.

"I promised your father to be your friend," she told him; "here is a little gold ring, take
care of it, for it is worth more than diamonds. Every time that you are about to do any wrong
action it will prick you. If, in spite of the pricks, you continue your bad actions, you will
lose my friendship and I shall become your enemy."

Saying this the Fairy vanished, leaving the Prince very much astonished.

For some time Chéri behaved so well that the ring did not prick at all, but one day when he
returned from the chase, having caught nothing, he felt so ill-humoured, that when his dog
Bibi came fawning upon him, he kicked the poor, faithful creature from him. At that moment
the ring pricked like a pin running into his finger.

"What is this?" he exclaimed: "the Fairy must be mocking me, surely I've done no great harm
in kicking an animal that annoyed me. What's the use of being ruler of a great empire if I
may not treat my dog as I will?"

"I am not mocking you," he heard in reply to his thoughts; "you have been bad tempered, and
you have behaved unkindly to a poor animal who did not deserve such treatment. I know you are
higher than a dog, but the advantage of being ruler of a great empire is not in doing all the
harm one wishes, but in doing all the good one can."

Chéri promised to be better, but he did not keep his word, and so the ring often pricked him,
sometimes until his finger bled, and at last, in anger, he threw it away.

Now he thought he would be truly happy, and he gave way to any foolish fancies and wrong wishes
that came into his head, until he really became very wicked and was disliked by everyone.

One day when he was out walking he saw a girl named Zélie, who was so beautiful that he resolved
to marry her.

But Zélie was as good as she was beautiful, and said to him:

"Sir, I am only a shepherdess and have no fortune, but, in spite of that, I will never marry
you, for although I should be a Queen, and you are handsome and rich, your evil behaviour would
make me hate you."

Upon this, Chéri flew into a passion, and ordered his officers to carry Zélie to the Palace,
but she was not used unkindly there, for the Prince loved her.

However, after a while, urged by his foster-brother, a bad man who encouraged Chéri in his
wickedness, the young man rushed in a rage to the room in which Zélie was confined, determined
that, if she still refused to marry him, the very next day she should be sold as a slave.

Great was his surprise, on entering the apartment, to find the captive had disappeared, for
he carried the key of the door in his pocket.

Amongst those at the Royal Court was a Councillor named Suliman, a man of a noble mind, who
had often dared to tell the Prince of his faults, and had at first been thanked for this, but
later on Chéri grew angry that anyone should presume to blame him while all others at the Court
were full of flattery and praise, but in his heart of hearts the Prince respected this good
man, and this the wicked flatterers knew full well, and therefore feared lest he should come
into the Prince's favour.

So now they falsely said, that it was Suliman who had helped Zélie to escape, and beyond himself
with fury, Chéri commanded his foster-brother to send soldiers to bring Suliman to him in chains,
like a criminal.

After giving these orders Chéri retired to his chamber, but scarcely had he entered, when the
earth trembled, there came a great clap of thunder, and the Fairy Candide appeared before him.

"I promised your father," said she in a stern voice, "to give you good advice, and to punish
you if you refused to follow it. You have despised my counsels and your crimes have converted
you into a monster, the horror of heaven and earth. Now it is time to fulfill my promise of
punishment. I condemn you to take the resemblance of the beasts you are like in disposition--A
lion, because of your fury--a wolf, on account of your greediness--a serpent, for destroying
him who has been your second father--a bull, by reason of your brutality."

Hardly had the Fairy pronounced these words, when Chéri perceived with horror that his body
had been transformed.

He had a lion's head, a bull's horns, the feet of a wolf, and the tail of a viper. At the same
moment he found himself in a forest, and there, after roaming about miserably for some time,
he fell into a pit dug by hunters. He was captured and led into the capital of his Kingdom.

On the way thither instead of acknowledging that he had brought this evil plight upon himself,
he bit at his chains, and cursed the Fairy. As he was nearing the city great rejoicings were
seen on every side, and, on the hunters enquiring the reason, they were told that Prince Chéri,
whose only pleasure it was to torment his people, had been crushed to death in his chamber
by a thunder-bolt, a just punishment for his offences. Four of his wicked companions had tried
to partition the Kingdom between them, but the people would have none such to rule, and they
had offered the crown to the good and wise Suliman. Chéri panted with rage on hearing this,
and in the Palace Square he saw Suliman on a superb throne, and all the people who shouted
with joy, and wished him a long life to repair the evil brought about by their former sovereign.
"I accept the throne," said Suliman, "but it is to preserve it for Prince Chéri. A fairy has
revealed to me that he is not dead, and possibly will return to you as virtuous as in his earliest
years. Alas!" cried Suliman, bursting into tears, "his flatterers have ruined him, I know that
at heart he is good." These words moved Chéri to sorrow for his crimes, and he felt that he
had not been punished as severely as he deserved, and he now resolved to amend his faults.

Therefore he obeyed the man who had charge over him, and who constantly cruelly beat him, and
one day when this keeper lay asleep, and a tiger who had broken loose was about to devour him,
Chéri fought the fierce beast, and saved the man's life.

Then a voice was heard saying, "a good action shall be rewarded!" and, to Chéri's joy he was
instantaneously transformed into a pretty little dog which the keeper carried to the Queen.

The Queen was delighted with him, but, for fear he should grow bigger, she gave him only small
pieces of bread to eat, so that poor Chéri nearly died of hunger.

One day he carried his little piece of bread into the garden to eat it there, but wandering
with it in his mouth, still further on, he saw a young girl pale and thin, and almost fainting
for want of food.

"I am hungry," thought Chéri, "but if I give my breakfast to this poor thing, perhaps I shall
save her life." He placed his bread in the girl's hand, and she ate it hungrily. Just then
he heard loud cries, and saw that it was the beautiful Zélie struggling to free herself from
four men who were carrying her into a house near by.

Chéri, longing to help her, followed them barking, and although the men kicked him savagely,
he would not leave the place. Presently from a window was thrown a plateful of tempting-looking
food. Chéri was just about to devour it, when the girl to whom he had given the bread, rushed
forward and throwing her arms around him cried,

"Poor little dog, do not touch that food, it is poisoned." Just then a voice was heard saying,
"You see that a good action meets with reward," and at the same time Chéri was changed into
a pretty white pigeon. For several days he flew around hoping to catch sight of Zélie, and
at last, seated by a hermit, outside a cave, he found her. Fluttering down he alighted upon
her shoulder. Zélie stroked his feathers whispering that she now accepted his gift and would
love him always, and at that moment Chéri regained his natural figure, and Fairy Candide appeared
in place of the hermit whose form she had taken. "Come, my children," said she, "I am going
to transport you to your Palace, that Chéri may receive his crown of which he has now become
worthy," and hardly had she ceased speaking, when they found themselves in Suliman's presence.
The worthy Governor was delighted to behold his dear master, and gladly resigned the throne
to him. Chéri and Zélie reigned long and happily, and we are told that the ring, which the
Prince now wore again, never once severely pricked him.

THE WHITE CAT

There was once a King who had three sons, all handsome and brave, but it came to his ears that
they wished to reign now instead of waiting until he died, he therefore determined to divert
their minds by making promises the fulfilment of which he would always be able to evade. So
he called them to his room and spoke: "You must agree with me, my dear children, that at my
great age I cannot manage the business of my kingdom as I used to do, and as I am intending
retiring into the country, it seems to me that a clever, faithful dog would be very good company,
and I promise you that whichever brings me the most beautiful little dog at once succeeds to
the kingdom."

The Princes were much surprised to hear their father's wish for a little dog, but agreed with
pleasure to go in search of one. They said goodbye to the King, who gave them money and jewels,
announcing that in a year he should expect them to return, all on the same day and at the same
hour, bringing to him their little dogs.

Then the Princes set out, each by a different road, agreeing in a year's time to meet at a
certain place a short distance from their home.

The two elder met with many adventures, but it is only the youngest that we shall follow.

This youngest Prince was very courteous, merry, clever and accomplished, he was tall, handsome,
and all that a prince should be.

Very seldom a day passed without his buying dogs, little dogs, big dogs, sporting dogs, spaniels,
hounds, dogs of all sorts. When he found a beautiful one and then came across a still better,
he let the first one go, for being alone--the Princes had declined to take any attendants--he
could not take charge of thirty or forty thousand dogs.

He travelled on, keeping to one road, until on a certain night, during a storm of thunder and
rain, he lost his way, and after some wandering arrived at a most superb castle where nobody
was to be seen but about a dozen hands all holding torches. Other hands pushed him forwards,
and guided him through one apartment after another, all so rich in precious stones and beautiful
paintings, that it was like enchantment.

After passing through sixty rooms, the hands stopped him, and here the wet garments of the
Prince were taken away, and he was clad in raiment of the most exquisite description. The hands
then conducted him into a banqueting hall, where entered a little figure, not two feet high,
covered with a long black crepe veil, followed by a great procession of cats.

The Prince was too much astonished to move. The little figure approached him, raising the veil,
and he saw the most beautiful White Cat he had ever beheld.

Addressing the Prince she said:

"King's son! welcome! my Feline Majesty sees you with pleasure!"

"Madame Cat," replied the Prince, "it is very good of you to receive me thus, but you are not
an ordinary cat; being able to speak, and possessing this superb castle, are proof of that."

After they had conversed a little while, supper was served to them, during which the Prince
entertained the Cat by telling her all sorts of news, and he discovered that she was well informed
as to what was taking place in the world.

Supper over, various cats came in, dressed in fancy costumes, and danced a ballet, then the
White Cat bid her visitor good-night, and the hands which had conducted him before, led him
to a bed-chamber.

Early the next morning the hands awoke him, and dressing him in a handsome hunting costume,
led him to the courtyard, where he found the White Cat upon a splendid monkey, with about five
hundred other cats assembled, all ready for the chase; and never had the Prince enjoyed anything
so much, for although mounted only upon a wooden horse, he rode at a great pace.

Day after day passed in such delights as made the Prince almost forget his own country.

"Alas!" said he to the White Cat again and again, "how sad I shall be to leave you! I love
you so dearly! Either become a woman, or change me into a cat!"

A year passes very quickly when one has no care or trouble, and is enjoying life. But the White
Cat knew when the Prince should return home, and reminded him, saying, "Don't you know you
have only three days to look for the little dog for your father, and that your brothers will
have found the most beautiful?"

