With the sunset in their faces they swept through the keen-scented autumn air at the swiftest
pace of Kate's ponies. She had given the reins to Peyton, and he had turned the horses' heads
away from the lake, rising by woody upland lanes to the high pastures which still held the
sunlight. The horses were fresh enough to claim his undivided attention, and he drove in silence,
his smooth fair profile turned to his companion, who sat silent also.

Kate Orme was engaged in one of those rapid mental excursions which were forever sweeping her
from the straight path of the actual into uncharted regions of conjecture. Her survey of life
had always been marked by the tendency to seek out ultimate relations, to extend her researches
to the limit of her imaginative experience. But hitherto she had been like some young captive
brought up in a windowless palace whose painted walls she takes for the actual world. Now the
palace had been shaken to its base, and through a cleft in the walls she looked out upon life.
For the first moment all was indistinguishable blackness; then she began to detect vague shapes
and confused gestures in the depths. There were people below there, men like Denis, girls like
herself--for under the unlikeness she felt the strange affinity--all struggling in that awful
coil of moral darkness, with agonized hands reaching up for rescue. Her heart shrank from the
horror of it, and then, in a passion of pity, drew back to the edge of the abyss. Suddenly
her eyes turned toward Denis. His face was grave, but less disturbed. And men knew about these
things! They carried this abyss in their bosoms, and went about smiling, and sat at the feet
of innocence. Could it be that Denis--Denis even--Ah, no! She remembered what he had been to
poor Arthur; she understood, now, the vague allusions to what he had tried to do for his brother.
He had seen Arthur down there, in that coiling blackness, and had leaned over and tried to
drag him out. But Arthur was too deep down, and his arms were interlocked with other arms--they
had dragged each other deeper, poor souls, like drowning people who fight together in the waves!
Kate's visualizing habit gave a hateful precision and persistency to the image she had evoked--she
could not rid herself of the vision of anguished shapes striving together in the darkness.
The horror of it took her by the throat--she drew a choking breath, and felt the tears on her face.

Peyton turned to her. The horses were climbing a hill, and his attention had strayed from them.

"This has done me good," he began; but as he looked his voice changed. "Kate! What is it? Why
are you crying? Oh, for God's sake, don't!" he ended, his hand closing on her wrist.

She steadied herself and raised her eyes to his.

"I--I couldn't help it," she stammered, struggling in the sudden release of her pent compassion.
"It seems so awful that we should stand so close to this horror--that it might have been you who--"

"I who--what on earth do you mean?" he broke in stridently.

"Oh, don't you see? I found myself exulting that you and I were so far from it--above it--safe
in ourselves and each other--and then the other feeling came--the sense of selfishness, of
going by on the other side; and I tried to realize that it might have been you and I who--who
were down there in the night and the flood--"

Peyton let the whip fall on the ponies' flanks. "Upon my soul," he said with a laugh, "you
must have a nice opinion of both of us."

The words fell chillingly on the blaze of her self-immolation. Would she never learn to remember
that Denis was incapable of mounting such hypothetical pyres? He might be as alive as herself
to the direct demands of duty, but of its imaginative claims he was robustly unconscious. The
thought brought a wholesome reaction of thankfulness.

