Two years went by, and we were in the Autumn of 1502, yet my faith knew no abating, my confidence
was strong as ever. And, at last, that confidence was justified. One night of early October,
as I sat at supper with my mother after the labours of the day, a sound of hoofs disturbed
the peace of the silent night. It drew rapidly nearer, and long before the knock fell upon
our door, I knew that it was the messenger from my lady.

My mother looked at me across the board, an expression of alarm overspreading her old face.
"Who," her eyes seemed to ask me, "was this horseman that rode so late?"

My hound rose from the hearth with a growl, and stood bristling, his eyes upon the door. White-haired
old Silvio, the last remaining retainer of the House of Biancomonte, came forth from the kitchen,
with inquiry and fear blending on his wrinkled, weather-beaten countenance.

And I, seeing all these signs of alarm, yet knowing what awaited me on the threshold, rose
with a laugh, and in a bound had crossed the intervening space. I flung wide the door, and
from the gloom without a man's voice greeted me with a question.

"Is this the house of Messer Lazzaro Biancomonte?"

"I am that Lazzaro Biancomonte," answered I. "What may your pleasure be?"

The stranger advanced until he came within the light. He was plainly dressed, and wore a jerkin
of leather and long boots. From his air I judged him a servant or a courier. He doffed his
hat respectfully, and held out his right hand in which something was gleaming yellow. It was
the Borgia ring.

"Pesaro," was all he said.

I took the ring and thanked him, then bade him enter and refresh himself ere he returned, and
I called old Silvio to bring wine.

"I am not returning," the man informed me. "I am a courier riding to Parma, whom Madonna charged
with that message to you in passing."

Nevertheless he consented to rest him awhile and sip the wine we set before him, and what time
he did so I engaged him in talk, and led him to tell me what he knew of the trend of things
at Pesaro, and what news there was of the Lord Giovanni. He had little enough to tell. Pesaro
was flourishing and prospering under the Borgia dominion. Of the Lord Giovanni there was little
news, saving that he was living under the protection of the Gonzagas in Mantua, and that so
long as he was content to abide there the Borgias seemed disposed to give him peace.

Next I made him tell me what he knew of Filippo di Santafior and Madonna Paola. On this subject
he was better informed. Madonna Paola was well and still lived with her brother at the Palace
of Pesaro. The Lord Filippo was high in favour with the Borgias, and Cesare lately had been
frequently his guest at Pesaro, whilst once, for a few days, the Lord Ignacio de Borgia had
accompanied his illustrious cousin.

I flushed and paled at that piece of news, and the reason of her summons no longer asked conjecture.
It was an easy thing for me, knowing what I knew, to fill in the details which the courier
omitted in ignorance from the story.

The Lord Filippo, seeking his own advancement, had so urged his sister upon the notice of the
Borgia family--perhaps even approached Cesare--in such a manner that it was again become a
question of wedding her to Ignacio, who had, meanwhile, remained unmarried. I could read that
opportunist's motives as easily as if he had written them down for my instruction. Giovanni
Sforza he accounted lost beyond redemption, and I could imagine how he had plied his wits to
aid his sister to forget him, or else to remember him no longer with affection. Whether he
had succeeded or not I could not say until I had seen her; but meanwhile, deeming ripe the
soil of her heart for the new attachment that should redound so much to his own credit--now
that the House of Borgia had risen to such splendid heights--he was driving her into this alliance
with Ignacio.

Faithful to the very letter of the promise I had made her, I set out that same night, after
embracing my poor, tearful mother, and promising to return as soon as might be. All night I
rode, my soul now tortured with anxiety, now exalted at the supreme joy of seeing Madonna,
which was so soon to be mine. I was at the gates of Pesaro before matins, and within the Palazzo
Sforza ere its inmates had broken their fast.

The Lord Filippo welcomed me with a certain effusion, chiding me for my long absence and the
ingratitude it had seemed to indicate, and never dreaming by what summons I was brought back.

"You are well-returned," he told me in conclusion. "We shall need you soon, to write an epithalamium."

"You are to be wed, Magnificent?" quoth I at last, at which he laughed consumedly.

"Nay, we shall need the song for my sister's nuptials. She is to wed the Lord Ignacio Borgia,
before Christmas."

"A lofty theme," I answered with humility, "and one that may well demand resources nobler than
those of my poor pen."

"Then get you to work at once upon it. I will have your chamber prepared."

He sent for his seneschal, a person--like most Of the servants at the Palace--strange to me,
and he gave orders that I should be sumptuously lodged. He was grown more splendid than ever
in the prosperity that seemed to surround him here at Pesaro, in this Palace that had undergone
such changes and been so enriched during the past two years as to go near defying recognition.

When the seneschal had shown me to the quarters he had set apart for me, I made bold to make
inquiries concerning Madonna Paola.

"She is in the garden, Illustrious," answered the seneschal, deeming me, no doubt, a great
lord, from the respect which Filippo had indicated should be shown me. "Madonna has the wisdom
to seek the little sunshine the year still holds. Winter will be soon upon us."

I agreed with the old man, and dismissed him. So soon as he was gone, I quitted my chamber,
and all dust staineded as I was I made my way down to the garden. A turn in one of the boxwood-bordered
alleys brought me suddenly face to face with Madonna Paola.

A moment we stood looking at each other, my heart swelling within me until I thought that it
must burst. Then I advanced a step and sank on one knee before her.

"You sent for me, Madonna. I am here." There was a pause, and when presently I looked up into
her blessed face I saw a smile of infinite sorrow on her lips, blending oddly with the gladness
that shone from her sweet eyes.

"You faithful one," she murmured at last. "Dear Lazzaro, I did not look for you so soon."

"Within an hour of your messenger's arrival I was in the saddle, nor did I pause until I had
reached the gates of Pesaro. I am here to serve you to the utmost of my power, Madonna, and
the only doubt that assails me is that my power may be all too small for the service that you
need."

"Is its nature known to you?" she asked in wonder. Then, ere I had answered, she bade me rise,
and with her own hand assisted me.

"I have guessed it," answered I, "guided by such scraps of information as from your messenger
I gleaned. It concerns, unless I err, the Lord Ignacio Borgia."

"Your wits have lost nothing of their quickness," she said, with a sad smile, "and I doubt
me you know all."

"The only thing I did not know your brother has just told me--that you are to be wed before
Christmas. He has ordered me to write your epithalamium."

She drew into step beside me, and we slowly paced the alley side by side, and, as we went,
withered leaves overhead, and withered leaves to make a carpet for our fret, she told me in
her own way more or less what I have set down, even to her brother's self-seeking share in
the transaction that she dubbed hideous and abhorrent.

She was little changed, this winsome lady in the time that was sped. She was in her twenty-first
year, but in reality she seemed to me no older than she had been on that day when first I saw
her arguing with her grooms upon the road to Cagli. And from this I reassured myself that she
had not been fretted overmuch by the absence of the Lord Giovanni.

Presently she spoke of him and of her plighted word which her brother and those supple gentlemen
of the House of Borgia were inducing her to dishonour.

"Once before, in a case almost identical, when all seemed lost, you came--as if Heaven directed--to
my rescue. This it is that gives me confidence in such aid as you might lend me now."

"Alas! Madonna," I sighed, "but the times are sorely changed and the situations with them.
What is there now that I can do?"

"What you did then. Take me beyond their reach."

"Ah! But whither?"

"Whither but to the Lord Giovanni? Is it not to him that my troth is plighted?"

I shook my head in sorrow, a thrust of jealousy cutting me the while.

"That may not be," said I. "It were not seemly, unless the Lord Giovanni were here himself
to take you hence."

"Then I will write to the Lord Giovanni," she cried. "I will write, and you shall bear my letter."

"What think you will the Lord Giovanni do?" I burst out, with a scorn that must have puzzled
her. "Think you his safety does not give him care enough in the hiding-place to which he has
crept, that he should draw upon himself the vengeance of the Borgias?"

She stared at me in ineffable surprise. "But the Lord Giovanni is brave and valiant," she cried,
and down in my heart I laughed in bitter mockery.

"Do you love the Lord Giovanni, Madonna?" I asked bluntly.

My question seemed to awaken fresh astonishment. It may well be that it awakened, too, reflection.
She was silent for a little space. Then--

"I honour and respect him for a noble, chivalrous and gifted gentleman," she answered me, and
her answer made me singularly content, spreading a balm upon the wounds my soul had taken.
But to her fresh intercessions that I should carry a letter to him, I shook my head again.
My mood was stubborn.

"Believe me, Madonna, it were not only unwise, but futile."

She protested.

"I swear it would be," I insisted, with a convincing force that left her staring at me and
wondering whence I derived so much assurance. "We must wait. From now till Christmas we have
more than two months. In two months much may befall. As a last resource we may consider communication
with the Lord Giovanni. But it is a forlorn hope, Madonna, and so we will leave it until all
else has failed us."

She brightened at my promise that at least if other measures proved unavailing, we should adopt
that course, and her brightening flattered me, for it bore witness to the supreme confidence
she had in me.

"Lazzaro," said she, "I know you will not fail me. I trust you more than any living mam; more,
I think, than even the Lord Giovanni, whom, if God pleases, I shall some day wed."

"Thanks, Madonna mia," I answered, gratefully indeed. "It is a trust that I shall ever strive
to justify. Meanwhile have faith and hope, and wait."

Once before, when, to escape the schemes of her brother who would have wed her to the Lord
Giovanni, she had appealed to me, the counsel I had given her had been much the same as that
which I gave her now. At the irony of it I could have laughed had any other been in question
but Madonna Paola--this tender White Flower of the Quince that was like to be rudely wilted
by the ruthless hands of scheming men.

CHAPTER XII. THE GOVERNOR OF CESENA

That night I would have supped in my own quarters but that Filippo sent for me and bade me
join him and swell the little court he kept. At times I believe he almost thought that he was
the true Lord of Pesaro--an opinion that may have been shared by not a few of the citizens
themselves. Certainly he kept a greater state and was better housed than the duke of Valentinois'
governor.

It was a jovial company of perhaps a dozen nobles and ladies that met about his board, and
Filippo bade his servants lay for me beside him. As we ate he questioned me touching the occupation
that I had found during my absence from Pesaro. I used the greatest frankness with him, and
answered that my life had been partly a peasants, partly a poet's.

"Tell me what you wrote," he bade me his eyes resting on my face with a new look of interest,
for his love of letters was one of the few things about him that was not affected.

"A few novelle, dealing with court-life; but chiefly verses," answered I.

"And with these verses--what have you done?"

"I have them by me, Illustrious," I answered. He smiled, seemingly well pleased.

"You must read them to us," he cried. "If they rival that epic of yours, which I have never
forgotten, they should be worth hearing."

And presently, supper being done, I went at his bidding to my chamber for my precious manuscripts,
and, returning, I entertained the company with the reading of a portion of what I had written.
They heard me with an attention that might have rendered me vain had my ambition really lain
in being accounted a great writer; and when I paused, now and again, there was a murmur of
applause, and many a pat on the shoulder from Filippo whenever a line, a phrase or a stanza
took his fancy.

I was perhaps too absorbed to pay any great attention to the impression my verses were producing,
but presently, in one of my pauses, the Lord Filippo startled me with words that awoke me to
a sense of my imprudence.

"Do you know, Lazzaro, of what your lines remind me in an extraordinary measure?"

"Of what, Excellency?" I asked politely, raising my eyes from my manuscript. They chanced to
meet the glance of Madonna Paola. It was riveted upon me, and its expression was one I could
not understand.

"Of the love-songs of the Lord Giovanni Sforza," answered he. "They resemble those poems infinitely
more than they resemble the epic you wrote two years ago."

I stammered something about the similarity being merely one of subject. But he shook his head
at that, and took good note of my confusion.

"No," said he, "the resemblance goes deeper. There is the same facile beauty of the rhymes
the same freshness of the rhythm--remotely resembling that of Petrarca, yet very different.
Conceits similar to those that were the beauty spots of the Lord Giovanni's verses are ubiquitous
in yours, and above all there is the same fervent earnestness, the same burning tone of sincerity
that rendered his strambotti so worthy of admiration."

"It may be," I answered him, my confusion growing under the steady gaze of Madonna Paola, "it
may be that having heard the verses of the Lord Giovanni, I may, unconsciously, have modelled
my own lines upon those that made so deep an impression on me."

He looked at me gravely for a moment.

"That might be an explanation," he answered deliberately, "but frankly, if I were asked, I
should give a very different one."

"And that would be?" came, sharp and compelling, the voice of Madonna.

He turned to her, shrugged his shoulders and laughed. "Why, since you ask me," he said, "I
should hazard the opinion that Lazzaro, here, was of considerable assistance to the Lord Giovanni
in the penning of those verses with which he delighted us all--and you, Madonna, I believe,
particularly."

Madonna Paola crimsoned, and her eyes fell. The others looked at us with inquiring glances--at
her, at Filippo and at me. With a fresh laugh Filippo turned to me.

"Confess now, am I not right?" he asked good-humouredly.

"Magnificent," I murmured in tones of protest, "ask yourself the question. Was it a likely
thing that the Lord Giovanni would enlist the services of his jester in such a task?"

"Give me a straightforward answer," he insisted. "Am I right or wrong?"

"I am giving you more than a straightforward answer, my lord," I still evaded him, and more
boldly now. "I am setting you on the high-road to solve the matter for yourself by an appeal
to your own good sense and reason. Was it in the least likely, I repeat, that the Lord Giovanni
would seek the services of his Fool to aid him write the verses in honour of the lady of his
heart?"

With a burst of mocking laughter, Filippo smote the table a blow of his clenched hand.

"Your prevarications answer me," he cried. "You will not say that I am wrong."

"But I do say that you are wrong!" I exclaimed, suddenly inspired. "I did not assist the Lord
Giovanni with his verses. I swear it."

His laughter faded; and his eyes surveyed me with a sudden solemnity.

"Then why did you evade my question?" he demanded shrewdly. And then his countenance changed
as swiftly again. It was illumined by the light of sudden understanding. "I have it," he cried.
"The answer is plain. You did not assist the Lord Giovanni to write them. Why? Because you
wrote them yourself, and you gave them to him that he might pass them off as his own."

It was a merciful thing for me that the whole company fell into a burst of laughter and applauded
Filippo's quick discernment, which they never doubted. All talked at once, and a hundred proofs
were advanced in support of Filippo's opinion. The Lord Giovanni's celebrated dullness of mind,
amounting almost to stupidity, was cited, and they reminded one another of the profound astonishment
with which they had listened to the compositions that had suddenly burst from him.

Filippo turned to his sister, on whose pale face I saw it written that she was as convinced
as any there, and my feelings were those of a dastard who has broken faith with the man who
trusted him.

"Do you appreciate now, Madonna," he murmured, "the deceits and wiles by which that craven
crept like a snake into your esteem?"

I guessed at once that by that thrust he sought to incline her more to the union he had in
view for her.

"At least he was no craven," answered she. "His burning desire to please me may have betrayed
him into this foolish duplicity. But he still must live in my memory as a brave and gallant
gentleman; or have you forgotten, Filippo, that noble combat with the forces of Ramiro del' Orca?"

To such a question Filippo had no answer, and presently his mood sobered a little. For myself,
I was glad when the time came to withdraw from that company that twitted and pestered me and
played upon my sense of shame at the imprudence I had committed.

Now that I look back, I can scarce conceive why it should have so wrought upon me; for, in
truth, the little love I bore the Lord Giovanni might rather have led me to rejoice that his
imposture should be laid bare to the eyes of all the world. I think that really there was an
element of fear in my feelings--fear that, upon reflection, Madonna Paola might ask herself
how came that burning sincerity into the love-songs written in her honour which it was now
disclosed that I had penned. The answer she might find to such a question was one that might
arouse her pride and so outrage it as to lead her to cast me out of her friendship and never
again suffer me to approach her.

Such a conclusion, however, she fortunately did not arrive at. Haply she accounted the fervour
of those lines assumed, for when on the morrow she met me, she did no more than gently chide
me for the deceit that I had had a hand in practising upon her. She accepted my explanation
that my share in that affair had been wrung from me with threats of torture, and putting it
from her mind she returned to the matter of the approaching alliance she sought to elude, renewing
her prayers that I should aid her.

"I have," she told me then, "one other friend who might assist us, and who has the power perhaps
if he but has the will. He is the Governor of Cesena, and for all that he holds service under
Cesare Borgia, yet he seems much devoted to me, and I do not doubt that to further my interests
he would even consent to pit his wits against those of the family he serves."

"In which case, Madonna," answered I, spurred to it, perhaps, by an insensate pang of jealousy
at the thought that there should be another beside myself to have her confidence, "he would
be a traitor. And it is ever an ill thing to trust a traitor. Who once betrays may betray again."

That she manifested no resentment, but, on the contrary, readily agreed with me, showed me
how idle had been that jealousy of mine, and made me ashamed of it.

"Why yes," she mused, "it is the very thought that had occurred to me, and caused me to spurn
the aid he proffered when last he was here."

"Ah!" I cried. "What aid was that?"

"You must know, Lazzaro," said she, "that he comes often to Pesaro from Cesena, being a man
in whom the Duke places great trust, and on whom he has bestowed considerable powers. He never
fails to lie at the Palace when he comes, and he seems to--to have conceived a regard for me.
He is a man of twice my years," she added hurriedly, "and haply looks upon me as he might upon
a daughter."

I sniffed the air. I had heard of such men.

"A week ago, when last he came, I was cast down and grieved by the affair of this marriage,
which Filippo had that day disclosed to me. The Governor of Cesena, observing my sadness, sought
my confidence with a kindliness of which you would scarce believe him capable; for he is a
fierce and blustering man of war. In the fulness of my heart there was nothing that seemed
so desirable as a friendly ear into which I might pour the tale of my affliction. He heard
me gravely, and when I had done he placed himself at my disposal, assuring me that if I would
but trust myself to him, he would defeat the ends of the House of Borgia. Not until then did
I seem to bethink me that he was the servant of that house, and his readiness to betray the
hand that paid him sowed mistrust and a certain loathing of him in my mind. I let him see it,
perhaps, which was unwise, and, may be, even ungrateful. He seemed deeply wounded, and the
subject was abandoned. But I have since thought that perhaps I acted with a rashness that was--"

"With a rashness that was eminently justifiable," I interrupted her. "You could not have been
better advised than to have mistrusted such a man."

But touching this same Governor of Cesena, there was a fine surprise in store for me. At dusk
some two days later there was a sudden commotion in the courtyard of the Palace, and when I
inquired of a groom into its cause, I was informed that his Excellency the Governor of Cesena
had arrived.

Curious to see this man whose willingness to betray the house he served, where Madonna was
concerned, was by no means difficult to probe, I descended to the banqueting-hall at supper time.

They were not yet at table when I entered, and a group was gathered in the centre of the room
about a huge man, at sight of whose red head and crimson, brutal face I would have turned and
sought again the refuge of my own quarters but that his wolf's eye had already fastened on me.

"Body of God!" he swore, and that was all. But his eyes were on me in a marvellous stare, as
were now--impelled by that oath of his--the eyes of all the company. We looked at each other
for a moment, then a great laugh burst from him, shaking his vast bulk and wrinkling his hideous
face. He thrust the intervening men aside as if they had been a growth of sedges he would penetrate,
and he advanced towards me; the Lord Filippo and his sister looking on with all the rest in
interested surprise.

In front of me he halted, and setting his hands on his hips he regarded me with a brutal mirth.

"What may your trade be now?" he asked at last contemptuously.

I had taken rapid stock of him in the seconds that were sped, and from the surpassing richness
of his apparel, his gold-broidered doublet and crimson, fur-edged surcoat, I knew that Messer
Ramiro del' Orca was grown to the high estate of Governor of Cesena.

"A new trade even as yours," I answered him.

"Nay, that is no answer," he cried, overlooking my offensiveness. "Do you still follow the
trade of arms?"

"I think," Filippo interposed, "that our Excellency is in some error. This gentleman is Lazzaro
Biancomonte, a poet of whom Italy will one day be proud, despite the fact that for a time he
acted as the Lord Giovanni Sforza's Fool."

Ramiro looked at his interlocutor, as the mastiff may look at the lap dog. He grunted, and
blew out his cheeks.

"There is yet another part he played," said he, "as I have good cause to remember--for he is
the only man that can boast of having unhorsed Ramiro del' Orca. He was for a brief season
the Lord Giovanni Sforza himself."

"How?" asked the profoundly amazed Filippo, whilst all present pressed closer to miss nothing
of the disclosure that seemed to impend. Myself, I groaned. There was naught that I could say
to stem the tide of revelation that was coming.

"Do you then keep this paladin here arrayed like a clerk?" quoth Ramiro in his sardonic way.
"And can it be that the secret of his feat of arms has been guarded so well that you are still
in ignorance of it?"

Filippo's wits worked swiftly, and swiftly they pieced together the hints that Ramiro had let fall.

"You will tell us," said he, "that the fight in the streets of Pesaro, in which your Excellency's
party suffered defeat, was led by Biancomonte in the armour of Giovanni Sforza?"

Ramiro looked at him with that displeasure with which the jester visits the man who by anticipation
robs his story of its points.

"It was known to you?" growled he.

"Not so. I have but learnt it from you. But it nowise astonishes me."

And he looked at his sister, whose eyes devoured me, as if they would read in my soul whether
this thing were indeed true. Under her eyes I dropped my glance like a man ashamed at hearing
a disgraceful act of his paraded.

"Had it indeed been the Lord Giovanni, he had been dead that day," laughed Ramiro grimly. "Indeed
it was nothing but my astonishment at sight of the face I was about to stab, after having broken
the fastenings of his visor that stayed my hand for long enough to give him the advantage.
But I bear you no grudge for that," he ended, turning on me with a ferocious smile, "nor yet
for that other trick by which--as Boccadoro the Fool--you bested me. I am not a sweet man when
thwarted, yet I can admire wit and respect courage. But see to it," he ended, with a sudden
and most unreasonable ferocity, his visage empurpling if possible still more, "see to it that
you pit neither that courage nor that wit against me again. I have heard the story of how you
came to be Fool of the Court of Pesaro. Cesena is a dull place, and we might enliven it by
the presence of a jester of such nimble wits as yours."

He turned without awaiting my reply, and strode away to take his place at table, whilst I walked
slowly to my accustomed seat, and took little part in the conversation that ensued, which,
as you may imagine, had me and that exploit of mine for scope.

Anon an elephantine trumpeting of laughter seemed to set the air a-quivering. Ramiro was lying
back in his chair a prey to such a passion of mirth that it swelled the veins of his throat
and brow until I thought that they must burst--and, from my soul, I hoped they would. Adown
his rugged cheeks two tears were slowly trickling. The Lord Filippo, as presently transpired,
had been telling him of the epic I had written in praise of the Lord Giovanni's prowess. Naught
would now satisfy that ogre but he must have the epic read, and Filippo, who had retained a
copy of it, went in quest of it, and himself read it aloud for the delight of all assembled
and the torture of myself who saw in Madonna Paola's eyes that she accounted the deception
I had practised on her a thing beyond pardon.

Filippo had a taste for letters, as I think I have made clear, and he read those lines with
the same fire and fervour that I, myself, had breathed into them two years ago. But instead
of the rapt and breathless attention with which my reading had been attended, the present company
listened with a smile, whilst ever and anon a short laugh or a quiet chuckle would mark how
well they understood to-night the subtle ironies which had originally escaped them.

I crept away, sick at heart, while they were still making sport over my work, cursing the Lord
Giovanni, who had forced me to these things, and my own mad mood that had permitted me in an
evil hour to be so forced. Yet my grief and bitterness were little things that night compared
with what Madonna was to make them on the morrow.

She sent for me betimes, and I went in fear and trembling of her wrath and scorn. How shall
I speak of that interview? How shall I describe the immeasurable contempt with which she visited
me, and which I felt was perhaps no more than I deserved.

"Messer Biancomonte," said she coldly, "I have ever accounted you my friend, and disinterested
the motives that inspired a heart seemingly noble to do service to a forlorn and helpless lady.
It seems that I was wrong. That the indulging of a warped and malignant spirit was the inspiration
you had to appear to befriend me."

"Madonna, you are over-cruel," I cried out, wounded to the very soul of me.

"Am I so?" she asked, with a cold smile upon her ivory face. "Is it not rather you who were
cruel? Was it a fine thing to do to trick a lady into giving her affection to a man for gifts
which he did not possess? You know in what manner of regard I held the Lord Giovanni Sforza
so long as I saw him with the eyes of reason and in the light of truth. And you, who were my
one professed friend, the one man who spoke so loudly of dying in my service, you falsified
my vision, you masked him--either at his own and at my brother's bidding, or else out of the
malignancy of your nature--in a garb that should render him agreeable in my eyes. Do you realise
what you have done? Does not your conscience tell you? You have contrived that I have plighted
my troth to a man such as I believed the Lord Giovanni to be. Mother of Mercy!" she ended,
with a scorn ineffable; "when I dwell upon it now, it almost seems that it was to you I gave
my heart, for yours were the deeds that earned my regard--not his."

Such was the very argument that I had hugged to my starving soul, at the time the things she
spoke of had befallen, and it had consoled me as naught in life could have consoled me. Yet
now that she employed it with such a scornful emphasis as to make me realise how far beneath
her I really was, how immeasurably beyond my reach was she, it was as much consolation to me
as confession without absolution may be to the perishing sinner. I answered nothing. I could
not trust myself to speak. Besides, what was there that I could say?

"I summoned you back to Pesaro," she continued pitilessly, "trusting in your fine words and
deeming honest the offer of services you made me. Now that I know you, you are free to depart
from Pesaro when you will."

Despite my shame, I dared, at last, to raise my eyes. But her face was averted, and she saw
nothing of the entreaty, nothing of the grief that might have told her how false were her conclusions.
One thing alone there was might have explained my actions, might have revealed them in a new
light; but that one thing I could not speak of.

I turned in silence, and in silence I quitted the room; for that, I thought, was, after all,
the wisest answer I could make.

CHAPTER XIII. POISON

Despite Madonna Paola's dismissal, I remained in Pesaro. Indeed, had I attempted to leave,
it is probable that the Lord Filippo would have deterred me, for I was much grown in his esteem
since the disclosures that had earned me the disfavour of Madonna. But I had no thought of
going. I hoped against hope that anon she might melt to a kinder mood, or else that by yet
aiding her, despite herself, to elude the Borgia alliance, I might earn her forgiveness for
those matters in which she held that I had so gravely sinned against her.

The epithalamium, meanwhile, was forgotten utterly and I spent my days in conceiving wild plans
to save her from the Lord Ignacio, only to abandon them when in more sober moments their impracticable
quality was borne in upon me.

In this fashion some six weeks went by, and during the time she never once addressed me. We
saw much during those days of the Governor of Cesena. Indeed his time seemed mainly spent in
coming and going 'twixt Cesena and Pesaro, and it needed no keen penetration to discern the
attraction that brought him. He was ever all attention to Madonna, and there were times when
I feared that perhaps she had been drawn into accepting the aid that once before he had proffered.
But these fears were short-lived, for, as time sped, Madonna's aversion to the man grew plain
for all to see. Yet he persisted until the very eve, almost, of her betrothal to Ignacio.

One evening in early December I chanced, through the purest accident, to overhear her sharp
repulsion of the suit that he had evidently been pressing.

"Madonna," I heard him answer, with a snarl, "I may yet prove to you that you have been unwise
so to use Ramiro del' Orca."

"If you so much as venture to address me again upon the subject," she returned in the very
chilliest accents, "I will lay this matter of your odious suit before your master Cesare Borgia."

They must have caught the sound of my footsteps in the gallery in which they stood, and Ramiro
moved away, his purple face pale for once, and his eyes malevolent as Satan's.

I reflected with pleasure that perhaps we had now seen the last of him, and that before that
threat of Madonna's he would see fit to ride home to Cesena and remain there. But I was wrong.
With incredible effrontery and daring he lingered. The morrow was a Sunday, and, on the Tuesday
or Wednesday following, Cesare Borgia and his cousin Ignacio were expected. Filippo was in
the best of moods, and paid more heed to the Governor of Cesena's presence at Pesaro than he
did to mine. It may be that he imagined Ramiro del' Orca to be acting under Cesare's instructions.

That Sunday night we supped together, and we were all tolerably gay, the topic of our talk
being the coming of the bridegroom. Madonna's was the only downcast face at the board. She
was pale and worn, and there were dark circles round her eyes that did much to mar the beauty
of her angel face, and inspired me with a deep and sorrowing pity.

Ramiro announced his intention of leaving Pesaro on the morrow, and ere he went he begged leave
to pledge the beautiful Lady of Santafior, who was so soon to become the bride of the valiant
and mighty Ignacio Borgia. It was a toast that was eagerly received, so eager and uproariously
that even that poor lady herself was forced to smile, for all that I saw it in her eyes that
her heart was on the point of breaking.

I remember how, when we had drunk, she raised her goblet--a beautiful chaste cup of solid gold--and
drank, herself, in acknowledgment; and I remember, too, how, chancing to move my head, I caught
a most singular, ill-omened smile upon the coarse lips of Messer Ramiro.

At the time I thought of it no more, but in the morning when the horrible news that spread
through the Palace gained my ears, that smile of Ramiro del' Orca recurred to me at once.

It was from the seneschal of the Palace that I first heard that tragic news. I had but risen,
and I was descending from my quarters, when I came upon him, his old face white as death, a
palsy in his limbs.

"Have you heard the news, Ser Lazzaro?" he cried in a quavering voice.

"The news of what?" I asked, struck by the horror in his face.

"Madonna Paola is dead," he told me, with a sob.

I stared at him in speechless consternation, and for a moment I seemed forlorn of sense and
understanding.

"Dead?" I remember whispering. "What is it you say?" And I leaned forward towards him, peering
into his face. "What is it you say?"

"Well may you doubt your ears," he groaned. "But, Vergine Santissima! it is the truth. Madonna
Paola, that sweet angel of God, lies cold and stiff. They found her so this morning."

"God of Heaven!" I cried out, and leaving him abruptly I dashed down the steps.

Scarce knowing what I did, acting upon an impulsive instinct that was as irresistible as it
was unreasoning, I made for the apartments of Madonna Paola. In the antechamber I found a crowd
assembled, and on every face was pallid consternation written. Of my own countenance I had
a glimpse in a mirror as I passed; it was ashen, and my hollow eyes were wild as a madman's.

Someone caught me by the arm. I turned. It was the Lord Filippo, pale as the rest, his affectations
all fallen from him, and the man himself revealed by the hand of an overwhelming sorrow. With
him was a grave, white-bearded gentleman, whose sober robe proclaimed the physician.

"This is a black and monstrous affair, my friend," he murmured.

"Is it true, is it really true, my lord?" I cried in such a voice that all eyes were turned
upon me.

"Your grief is a welcome homage to my own," he said. "Alas, Dio Santo! it is most hideously
true. She lies there cold and white as marble, I have just seen her. Come hither, Lazzaro."
He drew me aside, away from the crowd and out of that antechamber, into a closet that had been
Madonna's oratory. With us came the physician.

"This worthy doctor tells me that he suspects she has been poisoned, Lazzaro."

"Poisoned?" I echoed. "Body of God! but by whom? We all loved her. There was not in Pesaro
a man worthy of the name but would have laid down his life in her service. Who was there, then,
to poison that dear saint?"

It was then that the memory of Ramiro del' Orca, and the look that in his eyes I had surprised
whilst Madonna drank, flashed back into my mind.

"Where is the Governor of Cesena?" I cried suddenly. Filippo looked at me with quick surprise.

"He departed betimes this morning for his castle. Why do you ask?"

I told him why I asked; I told him what I knew of Ramiro's attentions to Madonna, of the rejection
they had suffered, and of the vengeance he had seemed to threaten. Filippo heard me patiently,
but when I had done he shook his head.

"Why, all being as you say, should he work so wanton a destruction?" he asked stupidly, as
if jealousy were not cause enough to drive an evil man to destroy that which he may not possess.
"Nay, nay, your wits are disordered. You remember that he looked at Madonna whilst she drank,
and you construe that into a proof that he had poisoned the cup she drank from. But then it
is probable that we all looked at her in that same moment."

"But not with such eyes as his," I insisted.

"Could he have administered the poison with his own hands?" asked the doctor gravely.

"No," said I, "that were a difficult matter. But he might have bribed a servant to drop a powder
in her wine."

"Why then," said he, "it should be an easy thing to find the servant. Do you chance to remember
who served the wine?"

"I remember," answered Filippo readily.

"Let the man be questioned; let him be racked if necessary. Thus shall you probably arrive
at a true knowledge; thus discover under whose directions he was working."

It was the only thing to do, and Filippo sent me about it there and then, telling me the servant
in question was a Venetian of the name of Zabatello. If confirmation had been needed that this
fellow had been the tool of the poisoner--there was no reason to suppose that he would have
done the thing to have served any ends of his own--that confirmation I had upon discovering
that Zabatello was fled from Pesaro, leaving no trace behind him.

Men were sent out by the Lord Filippo in every direction to endeavour to find the rogue and
bring him back. Whether they caught him or not seemed, after all a little thing to me. She
was dead; that was the one all-absorbing, all-effacing fact that took possession of my mind,
blotting out all minor matters that might be concerned with it. Even the now assured fact that
she had been poisoned was a thing that found little room in my consideration on that day of
my burning grief.

She was dead, dead, dead! The hideous phrase boomed again and again through my distracted mind.
Compared with that overwhelming catastrophe, what signified to me the how or why or when she
had died. She was dead, and the world was empty.

For hours I sat on the rocks, alone by the sea, on that stormy day of December, and I indulged
my grief where no prying eyes could witness it, amid the solitude of wild and angry Nature.
And the moan and thud with which the great waves hurled themselves against the base of the
black rock on which I was perched afforded but a feeble echo of the storm that raged and beat
within my desolated soul.

She was dead, dead, dead! The waves seemed to shout it as they leapt up and spattered me with
brine; the wind now moaned it piteously, now shrieked it fiercely as it scudded by, wrapping
its invisible coils about me, and seeming intent on tearing me from my resting-place.

Towards evening, at last, I rose, and skirting the Castle, I entered the town, dishevelled
and bedraggled, yet caring nothing what spectacle I might afford. And presently a grim procession
overtook me, and at sight of the black, cowled and visored figures that advanced in the lurid
light of their wax torches, I fell on my knees there in the street, and so remained, my knees
deep in the mud, my head bowed, until her sainted body had been borne past. None heeded me.
They bore her to San Domenico, and thither I followed presently, and in the shadow of one of
the pillars of the aisle I crouched whilst the monks chanted their funereal psalms.

The singing ended, the friars departed, and presently those of the Court and the sight-seers
from the streets began to leave the church. In an hour I was alone--alone with the beloved
dead, and there, on my knees, I stayed, and whether I prayed or blasphemed during that horrid
hour, my memory will not let me say.

It may have been towards the third hour of night when at last I staggered up--stiff and cramped
from my long kneeling on the cold stone. Slowly, in a half-dazed condition, I move down the
aisle and gained the door of the church. I essayed to open it. It resisted my efforts, and
then I realised that it was locked for the night.

The appreciation of my position afforded me not the slightest dismay. On the contrary, I think
my feelings were rather of relief. I had not known whither I should repair--so distraught was
my mood--and now chance had settled the matter for me by decreeing that I should remain.

I turned and slowly I paced back until I stood beside the great black catafalque, at each corner
of which a tall wax taper was burning. My footsteps rang with a hollow sound through the vast,
gloomy spaces of that cold, empty church; my very breathing seemed to find an echo in it. But
these were not things to occupy my mind in such a season, no more than was the icy cold by
which I was half-numbed--yet of which I seemed to remain unconscious in the absorbing anguish
that possessed me.

Near the foot of the bier there was a bench, and there I sat me down, and resting my elbows
on my knees I took my dishevelled head between my frozen hands. My thoughts were all of her
whose poor murdered clay was there encased above me. I reviewed, I think, each scene of my
life where it had touched on hers; I evoked every word she had addressed to me since first
I had met her on the road to Cagli.

And anon my mood changed, and, from cold and frozen that it had been by grief, it grew ablaze
with the fire of anger and the lust to wreak vengeance upon him that had brought her to this
condition. Let Filippo fear to move without proofs, let him doubt such proofs as I had set
before him and deem them overslender to warrant action. Such scruples should not serve to restrain
me. I was no lukewarm brother. Here in Pesaro I would remain until her poor body was delivered
to the earth, and then I would set out upon a last emprise. Messer Ramiro del' Orca should
account to me for this vile deed.

There in the House of Peace I sat gnawing my hands and maturing my bloody plans whilst the
night wore on. Later a still more frenzied mood obsessed me--a burning desire to look again
upon the sweet face of her I had loved, the sainted visage of Madonna Paola. What was there
to deter me? Who was there to gainsay me?

I stood up and uttered that challenge aloud in my madness. My voice echoed mournfully up the
aisles, and the sound of the echo chilled me, yet my purpose gathered strength.

I advanced, and after a moment's pause, with the silver-broidered hem of the pall in my hands,
I suddenly swept off that mantle of black cloth, setting up such a gust of wind as all but
quenched the tapers. I caught up the bench on which I had been sitting, and, dragging it forward,
I mounted it and stood now with my breast on a level with the coffin-lid. I laid hands on it
and found it unfastened. Without thought or care of how I went about the thing, I raised it
and let it crash over to the ground. It fell on the stone flags with a noise like that of thunder,
which boomed and reverberated along the gloomy vault above.

A figure, all in purest white, lay there under my eyes, the face covered by a veil. With deepest
reverence, and a prayer to her sainted soul to forgive the desecration of my loving hands,
I tremblingly drew that veil aside. How beautiful she was in the calm peace of death! She lay
there like one gently sleeping, the faintest smile upon her lips, and as I looked it seemed
hard to believe that she was truly dead. Why, her lips had lost nothing of their colour; they
were as rosy red--or nearly so--as ever I had seen them in life. How could this be? The lips
of the dead are wont to put on a livid hue. I stared a moment, my reverence and grief almost
effaced by the intensity of my wonder. This face, so ivory pale, wore not the ashen aspect
of one that would never wake again. There was a warmth about that pallor. And then I caught
my nether lip in my teeth until it bled, and it is a miracle that I did not scream, seeing
how overwrought was my condition.

For it had seemed to me that the draperies on her bosom had slightly moved, a gentle, almost
imperceptible heave as if she breathed. I looked, and there it came again.

God! into what madness was I come that my eyes could so deceive me? It was the draught that
stirred the air about the church and blew great shrouds of wax adown the taper's yellow sides.
I manned myself to a more sober mood, and looked again.

And now my doubts were all dispelled. I knew that I had mastered any errant fancy, and that
my eyes were grown wise and discriminating, and I knew, too, that she lived. Her bosom slowly
rose and fell; the colour of her lips, the hue of her cheeks confirmed the assurance that she
breathed. The poison had failed in its work.

I paused a second yet to ponder. That morning her appearance had been such that the physician
had been deceived by it, and had pronounced her cold. Yet now there were these signs of life.
What could it portend but that the effects of the poison were passing off and that she was
recovering?

In the wild madness of joy that sent the blood drumming and beating through my brain, my first
impulse was to run for help. Then I bethought me of the closed doors, and I realised that no
matter how I shouted none would hear me. I must succour her myself as best I could, and meanwhile
she must be protected from the chill air of that December night in that church that was colder
than the tomb. I had my cloak, a heavy, serviceable garment; and if more were needed, there
was the pall which I had removed, and which lay in a heap about the legs of my bench.

I leaned forward, and passing my hand under her head, I gently raised it. Then slipping it
downwards, I thrust my arm after it until I had her round the waist in a firm grip. Thus I
raised her from the coffin, and the warmth of her body on my arm, the ready, supple bending
of her limbs, were so many added proofs that she was not dead.

Gently and reverently I lifted her in my arms, an intoxication of holy joy pervading me, and
the prayers falling faster from my lips than ever they had done since as a lad I had recited
them at my mother's knee. A moment I laid her on the bench, whilst I divested myself of my
cloak. Then suddenly I paused, and stood listening, holding my breath.

Steps were advancing towards the door.

My first impulse was to rush forward and call to those who came, shouting my news and imploring
their help. Then a sudden, an almost instinctive suspicion caught and chilled me. Who was it
came at such an hour? What could any man seek in the Church of San Domenico at dead of night?
Was the church indeed their goal, or were they but passers-by?

That last question went not long unanswered. The steps came nearer, whilst I stood appalled,
my skin roughening like a dog's. They halted at the door. Something heavy hurtled against it.

A voice, the voice of Ramiro del' Orca--I knew it upon the instant--reached my ears which concentration
had rendered superacute.

"It is locked, Baldassare. Get out those tools of yours and force it."

My wits were working now at fever-pace. It may be that I am swift of thought beyond the ordinary
man, or it may be that what then came to me was either a flash of inspiration or the conclusion
to which I leapt by instinct. But in that moment the whole plot of Madonna's poisoning was
revealed to me. Poisoned she had been--aye, but by some drug that did but produce for a little
while the outward appearance of death so truly simulated as to deceive the most experienced
of doctors. I had heard of such poisons, and here, in very truth, was one of them at work.
His vengeance on her for her indifference to his suit was not so clumsy and primitive as that
of simply slaying her. He had, by his infernal artifice, intended, secretly, to bear her off.
To-morrow when men found a broken church-door and a violated bier, they would set the sacrilege
down to some wizard who had need of the body for his dark practices of magic.

I cursed myself in that hour that I had not earlier been moved to peer into her coffin whilst
yet there might have been time to have saved her. Now? The sweat stood out in beads upon my
brow. At that door there were, to judge by the sound of footsteps and of voices, some three
or four men besides Messer Ramiro. For only weapon I had my dagger. What could I do with that
to defend her? Ramiro's plan would suffer no frustration through my discovery; when to-morrow
the sacrilege was discovered the cold body of Lazzaro Biancomonte lying beside the desecrated
bier would be but an item in the work of profanation they would find--an item that nowise would
modify the conclusion to which I anticipated they would come.

CHAPTER XIV. REQUIESCAT!

A strange and mysterious thing is the working of terror on the human mind. Some it renders
incapable of thought or action, paralysing their limbs and stagnating the blood in their veins;
such creatures die in anticipating death. Others under the stress of that grim passion have
their wits preternaturally sharpened. The instinct of self-preservation assumes command of
all their senses, and urges them to swift and feverish action.

I thank God with a full heart that to this latter class do I belong. After one gelid moment,
spent with eyes and mouth agape, my hands fallen limp beside me and my hair bristling with
affright, I became myself again and never calmer than in that dread moment. I went to work
with superhuman swiftness. My cheeks may have been livid, my very lips bloodless; but my hands
were steady and my wits under full control.

Concealment--concealment for myself and her--was the thing that now imported; and no sooner
was the thought conceived than the means were devised. Slender means were they, yet Heaven
knows I was in no case to be exacting, and since they were the best the place afforded I must
trust to them without demurring, and pray God that Messer Ramiro might lack the wit to search.
And with that fresh hope it came to me that I must find a way so to dispose as to make him
believe that to search would be a futile waste of energy.

The odds against me lay in the little time at my disposal. Yet a little time there was. The
door was stout, and Messer Ramiro might take no violent means of bursting it, lest the noise
should arouse the street--and I well could guess how little he would relish having lights to
shine upon this deed of night of his.

With what tools his sbirro was at work I could not say; but surely they must be such as would
leave me a few moments. Already the fellow had begun. I could make out a soft crunching sound,
as of steel biting into wood. To act, then!

With movements swift as a cat's, and as silent, I went to work. Like a ghost I glided round
the coffin to the other side, where the lid was lying. I took it up, and when for a moment
I had deposited Madonna Paola on the ground, I mounted the bench and gently but quickly set
back that lid as it had been. Next, I gathered up the cumbrous pall, and mounting the bench
once more I spread it across the coffin. This way and that I pulled it, straightening it into
the shape that it had worn when first I had entered, and casting its folds into regular lines
that would lend it the appearance of having remained undisturbed.

And what time I toiled, the half of my mind intent upon my task, the other half was as intent
upon the progress of the worker at the door.

At last it was done. I set the bench where first it had been, at the foot of the catafalque,
and gathering up Madonna in my arms, as though her weight had been an infant's, I bore her
swiftly out of the circle of light of those four tapers into the black, impenetrable gloom
beyond. On I sped towards the high-altar, flying now as men fly in evil dreams, with the sensation
of an enemy upon them and their progress a mere standing-still.

Thus I gained the chancel, hurtling against the railing as I passed, and pausing for an instant,
wondering whether those without could have heard the noise which in my clumsiness I had made.
But the grinding sound continued uninterrupted, and I breathed more freely. I mounted the altar-steps,
the distant light behind me still feebly guiding me; I ran round to the right, and heaved a
great sigh of relief to find my hopes verified, and that the altar of San Domenico was as the
altar of other churches I had known. It stood a pace or so from the wall, and behind it there
was just such narrow hiding-room as I had looked to find.

I paused at the mouth of that black opening, and even as I paused, something hard that gave
out a metallic sound fell at the far end of the church. Instinct told me it was the lock which
those miscreants had cut from the door. I waited for no more, but like a beast scudding to
cover I plunged into that black space.

Madonna, wrapped in my cloak as she was, I set down upon the ground, and then I crept forward
on hands and knees and thrust out my head, trusting to the darkness to envelop me.

I waited thus for some seconds, my heart beating now against my ribs as if it would hurl itself
out of my bosom, my head and face on fire with the fever of reaction that succeeded my late
cold pallor.

From where I watched it was impossible to see the door hidden in the black gloom. Away in the
centre of the church, an island of light in that vast sea of blackness, stood the catafalque
with its four wax torches. Something creaked, and almost immediately I saw the flames of those
tapers bend towards me, beaten over by the gust that smote them from the door. Thus I surmised
that Ramiro and his men had entered. The soft fall of their feet; for they were treading lightly
now, succeeded, and at last they came into view, shadowy at first, then sharply outlined as
they approached the light.

A moment they stood in half-whispered conversation, their voices a mere boom of sound in which
no word was to be distinguished. Then I saw Ramiro suddenly step forward--I knew him by his
great height--and drag away, even as I had done, the pall that hid the coffin. Next he seized
the bench and gave a brisk order to his men in a less cautious voice, so that I caught his words.

"Spread a cloak," said he, and, in obedience, the four that were with him took a cloak among
them, each holding one of its corners. It was thus that he meant to bear her with him.

He mounted now the bench, and I could imagine with what elation of mind he put out his hands
to remove the coffin-lid. As well as if his soul had been transformed into a book conceived
for my amusement did I surmise the exultant mood that then possessed him. He had tricked Filippo;
he had out-witted us all--Madonna herself, included--and he was leaving no trace behind him
that should warrant any so much as to dare to think that this vile deed was the work of Messer
Ramiro del' Orca, Governor of Cessna.

But Fate, that arch-humourist, that jester of the gods, delights in mighty contrasts, and has
a trick of exalting us by false hopes and hollow lures on the very eve of working our discomfiture.
From the soul that but a moment back had been aglow with evil satisfaction there burst a sudden
blasphemous cry of rage that disregarded utterly the sanctity of that consecrated place.

"By the Death of Christ! the coffin is empty!"

It was the roar of a beast enraged, and it was succeeded by a heavy crash as he let fall the
coffin-lid; a second later a still louder sound awoke the night-echoes of that silent place.
In a burst of maniacal frenzy he had caught the coffin itself a buffet of his mighty fist,
and hurled it from its trestles.

Then he leapt down from the bench, and flung all caution to the winds in the excitement that
possessed him.

"It is a trick of that smooth-faced knave Filippo," he cried. "They have laid a trap for us,
animals, and you never informed yourselves."

I could imagine the foam about the corners of his mouth, the swelling veins in his brow, and
the mad bulging of his hideous eyes, for terror spoke in his words, and the Governor of Cesena,
overbearing bully though he was, could on occasion, too, become a coward.

"Out of this!" he growled at them. "See that your swords hang ready. Away!"

One of them murmured something that I could not catch. Mother in Heaven! if it should be a
suggestion of what actually had taken place, a suggestion that the church should be searched
ere they abandoned it? But Ramiro's answer speedily relieved my fears.

"I'll take no risks," he barked. "Come! Let us go separately. I first, and do you follow me
and get clear of Pesaro as best you can." His voice grew lower, and from what else he said
I but caught the words, "Cesena" and "to-morrow night," from which I gathered that he was appointing
that as their next meeting-place.

Ramiro went, and scarce had the echoes of his footsteps died away ere the others followed in
a rush, fearful of being caught in some trap that was here laid for them, and but restrained
from flying on the instant by their still greater fear of that harsh master, Ramiro.

Thanking Heaven for this miraculous deliverance, and for the wit it had lent me so to prepare
a scene that should thoroughly mislead those ravishers, I turned me now to Madonna Paola. Her
breathing was grown more heavy and more regular, so that in all respects she was as one sleeping
healthily. Soon I hoped that she might awaken, for to seek to bear her thence and to the Palace
in my arms would have been a madness. And now it occurred to me that I should have restoratives
at hand against the time of her regaining consciousness. Inspiration suggested to me the wine
that should be stored in the sacristy for altar purposes. It was unconsecrated, and there could
be no sacrilege in using it.

I crept round to the front of the altar. At the angle a candle-branch protruded, standing no
higher than my head. It held some three or four tapers, and was so placed to enable the priest
to read his missal at early Mass on dark winter mornings. I plucked one of the candles from
its socket, and hastening down the church, I lighted it from one of the burning tapers of the
bier. Screening it with my hand, I retraced my steps and regained the chancel. Then turning
to the left, I made for a door that I knew should give access to the sacristy. It yielded to
my touch, and I passed down a short stone-flagged passage, and entered the spacious chamber
beyond. An oak settle was placed against one wall, and above it hung an enormous, rudely-carved
crucifix. Facing it against the other wall loomed a huge piece of furniture, half-cupboard,
half-buffet. On a bench in a corner stood a basin and ewer of metal, whilst a few vestments
hanging beside these completed the furniture of this austere and white-washed chamber. Setting
my candle on the buffet, I opened one of the drawers. It was full of garments of different
kinds, among which I noticed several monks' habits. I rummaged to the bottom only to find some
odd pairs of sandals.

Disappointed, I closed the drawer and tried another, with no better fortune. Here were under-vestments
of fine linen, newly washed and fragrant with rosemary. I abandoned the drawer and gave my
attention to the cupboard above. It was locked, but the key was there. It opened, and my candle
reflected a blaze on gold and silver vessels, consecrated chalices; a dazzling monstra, and
several richly-carved ciboria of solid gold, set with precious stones. But in a corner I espied
a dark-brown, gourd-shaped object. It was a skin of wine, and, with a half-suppressed cry of
joy, I seized it. In that instant a piercing scream rang through the stillness of the church,
and startled me so that I stood there for some seconds, frozen in horror, a hundred wild conjectures
leaping to my mind.

Had Ramiro remained hidden, and was he returned? Did the scream mean that Madonna Paola had
been awakened by his rough hands?

A second time it came, and now it seemed to break the hideous spell that its first utterance
had cast over me. Dropping the leather bottle, I sped back, down the stone passage to the door
that abutted on the chancel.

There, by the high-altar, I saw a form that seemed at first luminous and ghostly, but in which
presently I recognised Madonna Paola, the dim rays of the distant tapers finding out the white
robe with which her limbs were hung. She was alone, and I knew then that it was but the very
natural fear consequent upon awakening in such a place that had provoked the cry I had heard.

"Madonna," I called, advancing swiftly towards her. "Madonna Paola!" There was a gasp, a moment's
stillness, then--

"Lazzaro?" She cried, questioningly. "What has happened? Why am I here?"

I was beside her now, and found her trembling like an aspen.

"Something horrible has happened, Madonna," I answered. "But it is over now, and the evil is
averted."

"But how came I here?"

"That you shall learn." I stooped to gather up the cloak which had slipped from her shoulders
as she advanced. "Do you wrap this about you," I urged her, and with my own hands I assisted
to enfold her in that mantle. "Are you faint, Madonna?" I asked.

"I scarce know," she answered in a frightened voice. "There is a black horror upon me. Tell
me," she implored again, "what does it mean?"

I drew her away now, promising to satisfy her in the fullest manner once she were out of these
forbidding surroundings. I led her to the sacristy and seating her upon the settle I produced
that wine-skin once again.

At first she babbled like a child of not being thirsty; but I was insistent.

"It is no matter of quenching thirst, Madonna," I told her. "The wine will warm and revive
you. Come Madonna mia, drink."

She obeyed me now, and having got the first gulp down her throat she drank a lusty draught
that was not long in bringing a healthier colour to replace the ashen pallor of her cheeks.

"I am so cold, Lazzaro," she complained.

I turned to the drawer in which I had espied the rough monks' habits, and pulling one out I
held it for her to don. She sat there now, in that garment of coarse black cloth, the cowl
flung back upon her shoulder, the fairest postulate that ever entered upon a novitiate.

"You are good to me, Lazzaro," she murmured plaintively, "and I have used you very ill." She
paused a second, passing her hand across her brow. Then--"What is the hour?" she asked.

It was a question that I left unheeded. I bade her brace herself and have courage for the tale
I was to tell. I assured her that the horror of it was all passed and that she had naught to
fear. So soon as her natural curiosity should be satisfied it should be hers to return to her
brother at the Palace.

"But how came I thence?" she cried. "I must have lain in a swoon, for I remember nothing."
And then her swift mind, leaping to a reasonable conclusion; and assisted, perhaps, by the
memory of the shattered catafalque which she had seen--"Did they account me dead, Lazzaro?"
she asked of a sudden, her eyes dilating with a curious affright as they were turned upon my own.

"Yes, Madonna," answered I, "you were accounted dead." And, with that, I told her the entire
story of what had befallen, saving only that I left my own part unmentioned, nor sought to
explain my opportune presence in the church. When I spoke of the coming of Ramiro and his knaves
she shuddered and closed her eyes in very awe. At length, when I had done, she opened them
again, and again she turned them full upon me. Their brightness seemed to increase a moment,
and then I saw that she was quietly weeping.

"And you were there to save me, Lazzaro?" she murmured brokenly. "Lazzaro mio, it seems that
you are ever at hand when I have need of you. You are indeed my one true friend--the one true
friend that never fails me."

"Are you feeling stronger, Madonna?" I asked abruptly, roughly almost.

"Yes, I am stronger." She stood up as if to test her strength. "Indeed little ails me saving
the horror of this thing. The thought of it seems to turn me sick and dizzy."

"Sit then and rest," said I. "Presently, when you are more recovered, we will set out."

"Whither shall we go?" she asked.

"Why, to the Palace, to your brother."

"Why, yes," she answered, as though it were the last suggestion that she had been expecting,
"And to-morrow--it will be to-morrow, will it not?--comes the Lord Ignacio to claim his bride.
He will owe you no mean thanks, Lazzaro."

There was a pause. I paced the chamber, a hundred thoughts crowding my mind, but overriding
them all the conjecture of how far it might be from matins, and how soon we might be discovered
by the monks. Presently she spoke again.

"Lazzaro," she inquired very gently, "what was it brought you to the church?"

"I came with the others, Madonna, to the burial service," answered I, and fearing such questions
as might follow--questions that I had been dreading ever since I had brought her to the sacristy--"If
you are recovered we had best be going," I told her gruffly.

"Nay, I am not yet enough recovered," answered she. "And before we go, there are some points
in this strange adventure that I would have you make clear to me. Meanwhile, we are very well
here. If the good fathers come upon us, what shall it signify?"

I groaned inwardly, and I grew, I think, more afraid than when Ramiro and his men had broken
into the church an hour ago.

"What kept you here after all were gone?"

"I remained to pray, Madonna," I answered brusquely. "Is aught else to be done in a church?"

"To pray for me, Lazzaro?" she asked.

"Assuredly, Madonna."

"Faithful heart," she murmured. "And I had used you so cruelly for the deception you practised.
But you merited my cruelty, did you not, Lazzaro? Say that you did, else must I perish of remorse."

"Perhaps I deserved it, Madonna. But perhaps not so much as you bestowed, had you but understood
my motives," I said unguardedly.

"If I had understood your motives?" she mused. "Aye, there is much I do not understand. Even
in this night's transactions there are not wanting things that remain mysterious despite the
explanations you have supplied me. Tell me, Lazzaro, what was it led you to suppose that I
still lived?

"I did not suppose it," I blundered like a fool, never seeing whither her question led.

"You did not?" she cried, in deep surprise; and now, when it was too late, I understood. "What
was it, then, induced you to lift the coffin-lid?"

"You ask me more than I can tell you," I answered, almost roughly. "Do you thank God, Madonna,
that it was so, and never plague your mind to learn the 'why' of it."

She looked at me with eyes that were singularly luminous.

"But I must know," she insisted. "Have I not the right? Tell me now: Was it that you wished
to see my face again before they gave me over to the grave?"

"Perhaps it was that, Madonna," I answered in confusion, avoiding her glance. Then--"Shall
we be going?" I suggested fiercely. But she never heeded that suggestion.

She spoke as if she had not heard, and the words she uttered seemed to turn me into stone.

"Did you love me then so much, dear Lazzaro?"

I swung round to face her now, and I know that my face was white--whiter than hers had been
when I had beheld her in her coffin. My eyes seemed to burn in their sockets as they met hers.
A madness overtook me and whelmed my better judgment. I had undergone so much that day through
grief, and that night through a hundred emotions, that I was no longer fully master of myself.
Her words robbed me, I think, of my last lingering shred of reason.

"Love you, Madonna?" I echoed, in a voice that was as unlike my own as was the mood that then
possessed me. "You are the air I breathe, the sun that lights my miserable world. You are dearer
to me than honour, sweeter than life. You are the guardian angel of my existence, the saint
to whom I have turned morning and evening in my prayers for grace. Do I love you, Madonna--?"

And there I paused. The thought of what I did and what the consequences must be rushed suddenly
upon me. I shivered as a man shivers in awaking. I dropped on my knees before her, bowing my
head and flinging wide my arms.

"Forgive, Madonna," I cried entreatingly. "Forgive and forget. Never again will I offend."

"Neither forgive nor forget will I," came her voice, charged with an ineffable sweetness, and
her hands descended on my bowed bead, as if she would bless and soothe me. "I am conscious
of no offence that craves forgiveness, and what you have said I would not forget if I could.
Whence springs this fear of yours, dear Lazzaro? Am I more than woman, or you less than man
that you should tremble for the confession that in a wild moment I have dragged from you? For
that wild moment I shall be thankful to my life's end; for your words have been the sweetest
ever my poor ears listened to. Once I thought that I loved the Lord Giovanni Sforza. But it
was you I loved; for the deeds that earned him my affection were deeds of yours and not of
his. Once I told you so in scorn. Yet since then I have come soberly to ponder it. I account
you, Lazzaro, the noblest friend, the bravest gentleman and the truest lover that the world
has known. Need it surprise you, then, that I love you and that mine would be a happy life
if I might spend it in growing worthy of this noble love of yours?"

There was a knot in my throat and tears in my eyes--a matter at which I take no shame. Air
seemed to fail me for a moment, and I almost thought that I should swoon, so overcome was I.
Transport the blackest soul from among the damned of Hell, wash it white of its sins and seat
it on one of the glorious thrones of Heaven, then ponder its emotions, and you may learn something
of what I felt. At last, when I had mastered the exquisite torture of my joy--

"Madonna mia," I cried, "bethink you of what you say. You are the noble lady of Santafior, and I--"

"No more of this," she interrupted me. "You are Lazzaro Biancomonte, of patrician birth, no
matter to what odd shifts a cruel fortune may have driven you. Will you take me?"

She had my face between her palms, and she forced my glance to meet her own saintly eyes.

"Will you take me, Lazaro?" she repeated.

"Holy Flower of the Quince!" was all that I could murmur, whereat she gently smiled. "Santo
Fior di Cotogno!"

And then a great sadness overwhelmed me. A tide that neaped the frail bark of happiness high
and dry upon the shores of black despair.

"To-morrow Madonna, comes the Lord Ignacio Borgia," I groaned.

"I know, I know," said she. "But I have thought of that. Paula Sforza di Santafior is dead.
Requiescat! We must dispose that they will let her rest in peace."

CHAPTER XV. AN ILL ENCOUNTER

Speechless I stared at her a moment, so taken was I with the immensity of the thing that she
suggested. Fear, amazement, and joy jostled one another for the possession of my mind.

"Why do you look so, Lazzaro?" she exclaimed at last. "What is it daunts you?

"How is the thing possible?" quoth I.

"What difficulty does it present?" she questioned back. "The Governor of Cesena has rendered
very possible what I propose. We may look on him to-morrow as our best friend."

"But Ramiro knows," I reminded her.

"True, but do you think that he will dare to tell the world what he knows? He might be asked
to say how he comes by his knowledge, and that should prove a difficult question to answer.
Tell me, Lazzaro," she continued, "if he had succeeded in carrying me away, what think you
would have been said in Pesaro to-morrow when the coffin was found empty?"

"They would assume that your body had been stolen by some wizard or some daring student of
anatomy."

"Ah! And if we were quietly to quit the church and be clear of Pesaro before morning, would
not the same be said?"

"Probably," answered I.

"Then why hesitate? Is it that you do not love me enough, Lazzaro?"

I smiled, and my eyes must have told her more than any protestation could. Then I sighed. "I
hesitate, Madonna, because I would not have you do now what you might come, hereafter, bitterly
to repent. I would not let you be misled by the impulse of a moment into an act whose consequences
must endure as long as life itself."

"Is that the reasoning of a lover?" she asked me, very quietly. "Is this cold argument, this
weighing of issues, consistent with the stormy passion you professed so lately?"

"It is," I answered stoutly. "It is because I love you more than I love myself that I would
have you reflect ere you adventure your life upon such a broken raft as mine. You are Paola
Sforza di Santafior, and I--"

"Enough of that," she interrupted me, rising. She swept towards me, and before I knew it her
hands were on my shoulders, her face upturned, and her blue eyes on mine, depriving me of all
will and all resistance.

"Lazzaro," said she, and there was an intensity almost fierce in her low tones, "moments are
flying and you stand here reasoning with me, and bidding me weigh what is already weighed for
all time. Will you wait until escape is rendered impossible, until we are discovered, before
you will decide to save me, and to grasp with both hands this happiness of ours that is not
twice offered in a lifetime?"

She was so close to me that I could almost feel the beating of her heart. Some subtle perfume
reaching me and combining with the dominion that her eyes seemed to have established over me
completed my subjugation. I was as warm wax in her hands. Forgotten were all considerations
of rank and station. We were just a man and a woman whose fates were linked irrevocably by
love. I stooped suddenly, under the sway of an impulse, I could not resist, and kissed her
upturned face, turning almost dizzy in the act. Then I broke from her clasp, and bracing myself
for the task to which we stood committed by that kiss--

"Paola," said I, "we must devise the means to get away. I will bear you to my mother's home
near Biancomonte, that you may dwell there at least until we are wed. But the thing that exercises
my mind is how to make our unobserved escape from Pesaro."

"I have thought of it already," she informed me quietly.

"You have thought of it?" I cried. "And of what have you thought?"

For answer she stepped back a pace, and drew the cowl of the monk's habit over her head until
her features were lost in the shadows of it. She stood before me now, a diminutive Dominican
brother. Her meaning was clear to me at once. With a cry of gladness I turned to the drawer
whence I had taken the habit in which she was arrayed, and selecting another one I hastily
donned it above the garments that I wore.

No sooner was it done than I caught her by the arm.

"Come, Madonna," I bade her in an urgent voice. At the first step she stumbled. The habit was
so long that it cumbered her feet. But that was a difficulty soon conquered. With my dagger
I cut a piece from the skirt of it, enough to leave her freedom of movement; and, that accomplished,
we set out.

We crossed the church swiftly and silently, and a moment I left her in the porch whilst I surveyed
the street. All was quiet. Pesaro still slept, and it must have wanted some two hours or more
to the dawn.

A fine rain was falling as we sallied out, and there was a sting in the December wind which
made us draw our cowls the tighter about our face. Abandoning the main street, I led her down
some narrow alleys, deserted like all the rest of the city, and not so much as a stray cat
abroad in that foul weather. It was very dark, and a hundred times we stumbled, whilst in some
places I almost carried her bodily to avoid the filth of the quarter we were traversing. At
length we gained the space in front of the gates that open on to the northern road, known as
Porta Venezia, and I would have blundered on and roused the guard to let us out, using the
Borgia ring once more--that talisman whose power had grown during these years, so that it would
now open me almost any door in Italy. But Paola stayed me. Wisely she counselled that we should
do nothing that might draw too much attention upon ourselves, and she urged me to wait until
the dawn, when the guard would be astir and the gates opened.

So we fled to the shelter of a porch, and there we waited, huddling ourselves out of the reach
of the icy rain. We talked little during the time we spent there. For my own part I had overmuch
food for thought, and a very natural anxiety racked me. Soon the monks would be descending
to the church, and they would discover the havoc there, and spread the alarm.

Who could say but that they might even discover the abstraction of the two habits from the
sacristy, and the hue and cry for two men in the sackcloth of Dominicans would be afoot--for
they would infer that two men so disguised had made off with the body of Madonna Paola. The
thought stirred me like a goad. I stood up. The night was growing thinner, and, suddenly, even
as I rose, a light gleamed from one of the Windows of the guard-house.

"God be thanked for that fellow's early rising," I cried out. "Come, Madonna, let us be moving."

And I added my newly-conceived reasons for quitting the place without further delay.

Cursing us for being so early abroad--a curse to which I responded with a sonorous "Pax Domini
sit tecum" the still somnolent sentinel opened the post and let us pass. I was glad in the
end that we had waited and thus avoided the necessity of showing my ring, for should inquiries
be made concerning two monks, that ring of mine might have betrayed the identity of one of
them. I gave thanks to Heaven that I knew the country well. A quarter of a league or so from
Pesaro we quitted the high-road and took to the by-paths with which I was well acquainted.

Day came, grey and forbidding at first, but presently the rain ceased and the sun flashed out
a thousand diamonds from the drenched hedge-rows.

We plodded on; and at length, towards noon, when we had gained the neighbourhood of the village
of Cattolica, we halted at the hut of a peasant on a small campagna. I had divested myself
of my monk's habit, and cut away the cowl from Madonna's. She had thereafter fashioned it by
means that were mysterious to my dull man's mind into a more feminine-looking garb.

Thus we now presented ourselves to the old man who was the sole tenant of that lonely and squalid
house. A ducat opened his door as wide as it would go, and gave us free access to every cranny
of his dwelling. Food he procured us--rough black bread, some pieces of roasted goat, and some
goat's milk--and on this we regaled ourselves as though it had been a ducal banquet, for hunger
had set us in the mood to account anything delicious. And when we had eaten we fell to talking,
the old man having left us to go about such peasant duties as claimed his attention, and our
talk concerned ourselves, our future first, and later on our past. I remember that Madonna
returned to the matter of the deception that I had practised, seeking to learn what reasons
had impelled me, and I answered her in all truth.

"Madonna mia, I think it must have been to win your love. When Giovanni Sforza bade me, with
many a threat, to write those verses, I undertook the task with ready gladness, for in its
performance I was to pour out the tale of the passion that was consuming my poor heart. It
occurred to me that if those verses were worthy, you might come to love their author for their
beauty, and so I strove to render them beautiful. It was the same spirit urged me to don the
Lord Giovanni's armour and fight in that splendid if futile skirmish. Even as you had come
to love the author for his verses, so might you come to love the warrior for his valour. That
you should account the one and the other the work of Giovanni Sforza was to me a little thing,
since I was well content to think that you but loved him because you accounted his the things
that I had performed. Therefore was I the one you truly loved, although you did not know it.
Could you but conceive what consolation that reflection was to me, you would deal lightly with
me for my deceit."

"I can conceive it," she answered, very gently, her eyes downcast; "and now that I know the
motives that impelled you, I almost love you for that deceit itself, for it seems to me that
it holds some quality well worthy of devotion."

Such was our talk, all of a nature to help us to a better understanding of each other, and
all seeming to endear us more and more by showing us how close the past had already drawn us.

Later I rose and announced my intention of adventuring into Cattolica, there to procure her
garments more seemly than those she wore, in which she might journey on and come into the presence
of my mother. Also, there was in Cattolica a man I knew, of whom I hoped for the loan of enough
money to enable me to purchase mules, to the end that we might journey in more dignity and
comfort. It was then about the twentieth hour, and I hoped to return by nightfall. I took my
leave of Madonna, enjoining her to rest and to seek sleep whilst I was absent; and with that
I set out.

Cattolica was no more than a half-league distant, and I looked to reach it in a half-hour or
so. I fell into thought as I trudged along, and I was building plans for the sunlit future
that was to be ours. I was a man transformed that day, and I could have sung in spite of the
chill December wind that buffeted me, so full of joy and gladness was my heart.

At Biancomonte I was likely to spend my days as little better than a peasant, but surely a
peasant's estate with such a companion as was to be mine was preferable to an emperor's throne
without her.

The bleak landscape seemed to me invested with a beauty that at no other time I should have
noticed. God was good. I swore a thousand times, the world was a good world--so good that Heaven
could scarce be better.

I had come, perhaps, the better half of the distance I had to travel, and I was giving full
rein to my joyous fancy, when suddenly I espied ahead a company of horsemen. They were approaching
me at a brisk pace, but I took no thought of them, accounting myself secure from any molestation.
If it so happened that it was a search party from Pesaro, seeking two men disguised as monks
who had ravished the coffin of Madonna Paola di Santafior, what should they want of Lazzaro
Biancomonte? And so, in my confidence, I advanced even as they trotted quickly towards me.

Not until they were within a matter of a hundred paces did I raise my eyes to take their measure;
and then I halted on my step, smitten of a sudden by an unreasoning and unreasonable fear,
to see at their head the bulky form of the Governor of Cesena. He saw me, too, and, what was
worse, he recognised me on the instant, for he clapped spurs to his horse and came at me as
if he would ride me down. Within three paces of me he drew up his steed. Whether the memory
of the other two occasions on which I had thwarted him arose now in his mind and made him wonder
had not some fatality brought me across his path again to send awry his pretty schemes concerning
Madonna Paula, I cannot say for certain; yet some suspicion of it occurred to me and filled
me with apprehension.

"Body of Bacchus!" he roared. "Is it truly you, Boccadoro?"

"They call me Biancomonte now, Magnificent," I answered him. But my tone was respectful, for
it could profit me nothing to incense him.

"A fig for what they call you," he snapped contemptuously. "Whence are you?"

"From Pesaro," I answered truthfully.

"From Pesaro? But you are travelling towards it."

"True. I was making for Cattolica, but I missed my way in seeking to shorten it. I am now returning
by the high-road."

The explanation satisfied him on that point, and being satisfied, he asked me when I had left
Pesaro. A moment I hesitated.

"Late last night," said I at last. He looked, at me, my foolish hesitation having perhaps unslipped
a suspicion that was straining at its leash.

"In that case," said he, "you can scarcely have heard the strange story that is being told there?"

I looked at him, as if puzzled, for a second. "If you mean the story of Madonna Paoia's end,
I heard it yesterday."

"Why, what story was that?" quoth he in some surprise, his beetling brows coming together in
one broad line of fur.

I shrugged my shoulders. "Men said that she had been poisoned."

"Oh, that," he cried indifferently. "But men say to-day that her body was stolen from the Church
of San Domenico where it lay. An odd happening, is it not?" And his eyes covered me in a fierce
scrutiny that again suggested to me those suspicions of his that I might be the man who had
anticipated him. I was soon to learn that he had more grounds than at first I thought for those
same suspicions.

"Odd, indeed," I answered calmly, for all that I felt my pulses quickening with apprehension.
"But is it true?" I added.

He shrugged his shoulders. "Rumour's habit is to lie," he answered. "Yet for such a lie as
that, so monstrous an imagination would be needed that, rather, am I inclined to account it
truth. There are no more poets in Pesaro since you left. But at what hour was it that you quitted
the city?"

To hesitate again were to betray myself; it were to suggest that I was seeking an answer that
should sort well with the rest of my story. Besides, what could the hour signify?

"It would be about the first hour of night," I said. He looked at me with increasing strangeness.

"You must indeed have wandered from your road to have got no farther than this in all that
time. Perhaps you were hampered by some heavy burden?" He leered evilly, and I turned cold.

"I was burdened with nothing heavier than this body of mine and a rather uneasy conscience."

"Where, then, have you tarried?"

At this I thought it time to rebel. Were I too meekly to submit to this examination, my very
meekness might afford him fresh grounds for doubts.

"Once have I told you," I answered wearily, "that I lost my way. And, however much it may flatter
me to have your Excellency evincing such an interest in my concerns, I am at a loss to find
a reason for it."

He leered prodigiously once more, and his eyebrows shot up to the level of his cap.

"I will tell you, brute beast," he answered me. "I question you because I suspect that you
are hiding something from me."

"What should I hide from your Excellency?"

He dared not enlighten me on that point, for should his suspicions prove unfounded he would
have uselessly betrayed himself.

"If you are honest, why do you lie?"

"I?" I ejaculated. "In what have I lied?"

"In that you have told me that you left Pesaro at the first hour of night. At the third hour
you were still in the Church of San Domenico, whither you followed Madonna Paola's bier."

It was my turn to knit my brows. "Was I indeed?" quoth I. "Why, yes, it may well be. But what
of that? Is the hour in which I quitted Pesaro a matter of such moment as to be worth lying
over? If I said that I left about the first hour, it is because I was under the impression
that it was so. But I was so distraught by grief at Madonna's death that I may have been careless
in my account of time."

"More lies," he blazed with sudden passion. "It may have been the third hour, you say. Fool,
the gates of Pesaro close at the second hour of night. Where are your wits?"

Outwardly calm, but inwardly in a panic--more for Madonna's sake than for my own--I promptly
held out the hand on which I wore the Borgia ring. In a flash of inspiration did that counter
suggest itself to me.

"There is a key that will open any gate in Romagna at any hour."

He looked at the ring, and of what passed in his mind I can but offer a surmise. He may have
remembered that once before I had fooled him with the help of that gold circlet; or he may
have thought that I was secretly in the service of the Borgias, and that, acting in their interests,
I had carried off Madonna Paola. Be that as it may, the sight of the ring threw him into a
fury. He turned on his horse.

"Lucagnolo!" he called, and a man of officer's rank detached himself from the score of men-at-arms
and rode forward. "Let six men escort me home to Cesena. Take you the remainder and beat up
the country for three leagues about this spot. Do not leave a house outside Cattolica unsearched.
You know what we are seeking?"

The man inclined his head.

"If it is within the circle you have appointed, we will find it," he answered confidently.

"Set about it," was the surly command, and Ramiro turned again to me. "You have gone a little
pale, good Messer Boccadoro," he sneered. "We shall soon learn whether you have sought to fool
me. Woe betide you, should it be so. We bear a name for swift justice at Cesena."

"So be it then," I answered as calmly as I might. "Meanwhile, perhaps you will now suffer me
to go my ways."

"The readier since your way must lie with ours."

"Not so, Magnificent, I am for Cattolica."

"Not so, animal," he mimicked me with elephantine grace, "you are for Cesena, and you had best
go with a good will. Our manner of constraining men is reputed rude." He turned again. "Ercole,
take you this man behind you. Assist him, Stefano."

And so it was done, and a few minutes later I was riding, strapped to the steel-clad Ercole,
away from Paola at every stride. Thus at every stride the anguish that possessed me increased,
as the fear that they must find her rose ever higher.

CHAPTER XVI. IN THE CITADEL OF CESENA

I will not harass you at any further length with the feelings that were mine as we sped northward
towards Cesena. If you are a person of some imagination and not destitute of human sympathy
you will be able to surmise them; if you are not--why then, my tale is not for you, and it
is more than probable that you will have wearied of it and flung it aside long before you reach
this page.

We rode so hard that by sunset Cesena was in sight, and ere night had fallen we were within
the walls of the citadel. It was when we had dismounted and I stood in the courtyard between
Ercole and another of the soldiers that Ramiro again addressed me.

"Animal," said he, "they tell me that I bear a name for harsh measures and rough ways. You
shall be a witness hereafter of how deeply I am maligned. For instead of putting you to the
question and loosening your lying tongue with the rack, I am content to keep you a prisoner
until my men return with that which I suspect you to be hiding from me. But if I then discover
that you have sought to fool me, you shall flutter from Ramiro del' Orca's flagstaff."

He pointed up to the tower of the Castle, from which a beam protruded, laden at that moment
with a ghastly burden just discernible in the thickening gloom. He named it well when he called
it his "flagstaff," and the miserable banner of carrion that hung from it was a fitting pennon
for the ruthless Governor of Cesena. Worthy was he to have worn the silver hauberk of Werner
von Urslingen with its motto, "The enemy of God, of pity and of mercy."

Forbidding, black-browed men caught me with rough hands and dragged me off to a dank, unlighted
prison, as empty of furniture as it was full of noisome smells. And there they left me to my
ugly thoughts and my deeply despondent mood what time the Governor of Cesena supped with his
officers in the hall of the Castle.

Ramiro drank deep that night as was his habit, and being overladen with wine it entered his
mind that in one of his dungeons lay Lazzaro Biancomonte, who, at one time, had been known
as Boccadoro, the merriest Fool in Italy. In his drunkenness he grew merry, and when Ramiro
del' Orca grew merry men crossed themselves and betook them to their prayers. He would fain
be amused, and to serve that end he summoned one of his sbirri and bade the fellow drag Boccadoro
from his dungeon and fetch him into his presence.

When they came for me I turned cold with fear that Madonna was already taken, and, by contrast
with such a fear as that, the reflection that he might carry out his threat to hang me from
that black beam of his, faded into insignificant proportions.

They ushered me into a great hall, not ill-furnished, the floor strewed plentifully with rushes,
and warmed by an enormous fire of blazing oak. By the door stood two pikemen in armour, like
a pair of statues; in the centre of the floor was a heavy oaken board, laden now with flagons
and beakers, at which sat Ramiro with a pair of gossips so villainous to look at, that the
sight of them reminded me of the adage "God makes a man and then accompanies him."

The Governor made a hideous noise at sight of me, which I was constrained to accept as an expression
of horrid glee.

"Boccadoro," said he, "do you recall that when last I had the honour of being entertained by
your pert tongue, I promised you that did you ever cross my path again I would raise you to
the dignity of Fool of my Court of Cesena?"

Into what magniloquence does vanity betray us! His Court of Cesena! As well might you describe
a pig-sty as a bower of roses.

But his words, despite the unsavoury thing of which they seemed to hold a promise, fell sweetly
on my ear, inasmuch as for the time they relieved my fears touching Madonna. It was not to
advise me of her capture that he had had me haled into his odious presence. I gathered courage.

"Have you not fools enough already at Cesena?" I asked him.

A moment he looked as if he were inclining to anger. Then he burst into a coarse laugh, and
turned to one of his gossips.

"Did I not tell you, Lampugnani, that his wit was quick and penetrating? Hear him, rogue. Already
has he discerned your quality." He laughed consumedly at his own jest, and turning to me he
pointed to a crimson bundle on a chair beside me. "Take those garments," he roughly bade me.
"Go dress yourself in them, then come you back and entertain us."

Without answering him, and already anticipating the nature of the clothes he bade me don, I
lifted one of the garments from the heap. It was a foliated jester's cap, with a bell hanging
from every point, which gave out a tinkling sound as I picked it up. I let it fall again as
though it had scorched me, the memory of what stood between Madonna Paola and me rising like
a warning spectre in my mind. I would not again defile myself by the garb of folly; not again
would I incur the shame of playing the Fool for the amusement of others.

"May it please your Excellency to excuse me," I answered in a firm tone. "I have made a vow
never again to put on motley."

He eyed me sardonically for a moment, as if enjoying in anticipation the pleasure of compelling
me against my will. He sat back in his chair and threw one heavily-booted leg across the other.

"In the Citadel of Cesena," said he, "we fear neither God nor Devil, and vows are as water
to us--things we cannot stomach. It does not please me to excuse you."

I may have paled a little before the sinister smile with which he accompanied his words, but
I stood my ground boldly.

"It is not," said I, "a question of what a vow may be to you and yours, but of what a vow is
to me. It is a thing I cannot break."

"Sangue di Cristo!" he snarled, "we will break it for you, then--that or your bones. Resolve
yourself, beast, the motley or the rack--or yet, if you prefer it, there is the cord yonder."
And he pointed to the far end of the chamber where some ropes were hanging from a pulley, the
implements of the ghastly torture of the cord. Of such a nature was this monster that he made
a torture-chamber of his dining-hall.

"Let the rogue make acquaintance with it," laughed Lampugnani, showing a mouthful of yellow
teeth behind the black beard that bushed his lips. "I'll swear his dancing would afford us
more amusement than his quips. Swing him up, Illustrious."

But the Illustrious seemed to ponder the matter.

"You shall have five minutes in which to decide," he informed me presently. "They say that
I am cruel. Behold how patient is my clemency. Five minutes shall you have where many another
would hang you out of hand for bearding him as you have done me."

"You may begin at once," said I. "neither five minutes nor five years will alter my determination."

His brow grew black with anger. "We shall see," was all he said.

There was a silence now in which we waited, a storm of thoughts battling in my mind. Presently
Ramiro caught up one of the flagons and applied it to his cup. It proved empty, and in a gust
of passion he hurled it against the wall where it burst into a thousand pieces. Clearly he
was very angry, and it taxed my wits to account for the little measure of patience he was showing
me.

"Beppo!" he called. A page lounging by the buffet sprang to attention. He was a slender, rather
delicate lad, fair of hair and blue of eyes, not more than twelve years of age. An elderly
man who stood beside him--one Mariani, the seneschal of Cesena--stepped forward also, solicitude
in his glance.

"Bring me wine," bawled the ogre. "Must I tell you what I need? If you do not put those eyes
of yours to better service, I'll have them plucked from your empty head. Bestir, animal."

The old man caught up a beaker from the buffet and handed it to the boy.

"Here, my son," said he. "Hasten to his Excellency."

The lad took the beaker from his father's hands, and trembling in his fear of Ramiro's anger,
he sprang forward to serve him. In his haste the poor youth slipped in some grease that had
clung to the rushes. In seeking to recover himself he tripped over the feet of one of the halberdiers
that guarded me, and measured his length upon the floor at Ramiro's feet, flooding the Governor's
legs with the wine he carried.

How shall I tell you of the horror that was the sequel?

For just one instant Ramiro looked down at the sprawling lad, his eyes glowing like a madman's.
Then suddenly he rose, stooped, and set one hand to the boy's belt, the other to the collar
of his jerkin. Feeling himself lifted, and knowing whose were the dread hands that held him,
poor Beppo uttered a single scream of terror. Then Ramiro swung him round with an ease that
displayed the man's prodigious strength. For just a second he seemed to hesitate how to dispose
of the human bundle that he held. Then, as if suddenly taking his resolve, that devil hurled
the lad across the little intervening space, straight into the heart of the blazing fire.

Beppo hurtled against the logs with a sickening crash, and a thousand sparks leapt up and vanished
in the cavern of the chimney. Ramiro wheeled sharply about, and snatching the pike from the
hands of one of my guards, he pinned down the poor body of the boy to make sure of his victim's
entire destruction.

Away by the buffet old Mariani looked on with a face as grey as ashes, his eyes protruding
in horror at the thing they witnessed. One glimpse I had of him, and I scarce know which was
the sight that sickened me more, the fathers anguish or the twitching limbs of the burning
child. Two legs and two arms protruded from the blaze and writhed and wriggled horribly what
time the flames peeled the garments from them and licked the flesh from the bones. At length
they fell still and sank down into the white heat of the logs, a hideous, pungent odour spreading
through the chamber. From the old man by the buffet, who had stood spellbound during this ghastly
scene, there broke at last an anguished cry.

"Mercy, my lord, mercy!"

The Governor of Cesena straightened himself from his task, pulled the pike from the flames,
and restored it to the man-at-arms. Then turning to Mariani:

"Fetch me wine," he bade him curtly, as he seated himself once more upon the chair from which
he had risen to perform that deed of ghastly ruthlessness.

A torch spluttered suddenly in its sconce, and the fierce hissing of the fire--like some monster
licking its chops over a bloody meal--were the only sounds that disturbed the stillness that
ensued.

Every man there, including Ramiro's table companions, was white to the lips; for accustomed
though they might be to horrors in that brigand's nest, this was a horror that surpassed anything
they had ever witnessed. The silence irked Messer Ramiro. He looked round from under his shaggy
brows, and he spluttered out an oath.

"Will you bring me this wine, pig?" he growled at the almost senseless Mariani, and in his
air and voice there was a promise of such terrific things that the old man put aside his horror
to make room for his fears, and mechanically seizing another flagon he hurried forward to minister
to the wants of his fearful lord.

Ramiro eyed him with cynical amusement.

"Your hand shakes, Mariani," he derided him. "Are you cold? Go warm yourself," he added, with
a brutal laugh and a jerk of his thumb towards the fire.

My eyes have looked upon some gruesome sights, and I have heard such tales of ruthless cruelty
as you would deem almost passing possibility. I have read of the awful doings of the Lord Bernabo
Visconti at Milan in the olden time, but I believe that compared with this monster of Cesena
that same Bernabo was no worse than a sucking dove. How it befell that men permitted him to
live, how it was that none bethought him to put poison in his wine or a knife in his back,
is something that I shall never wholly understand. Could it be that these robbers of whom he
made a hedge for his protection were no better than himself, or was it that the man's terrific
brutality was on such a scale that it filled them with an almost supernatural awe of him? To
men better versed than am I in the mysterious ways of human nature do I leave the answering
of these questions.

The ogre turned his bloodshot eyes upon me, as with his hand he caressed his tawny beard. He
seemed to have cooled a little now, and to have regained some mastery of his drunken self.
Old Mariani tottered back to his buffet, and stood leaning against it, his eyes wandering,
with the look of a man demented, to the fire that had devoured his child. There, indeed, if
he escaped the madness with which the poignancy of his grief was threatening him, was a tool
that might turn its edge against this inhuman monster, this devil, this bloody carnifex of
a Governor.

"Chance," said Ramiro, "has designed that you should see something of how we deal with clumsy
knaves at Cesena, Boccadoro. To disobedient ones I can assure you that we are not half so merciful.
There is no such short shrift for them. You have had more than the time I promised you for
reflection. The garments await you yonder. Let us know--"

The door opened suddenly, and a servant entered.

"A courier from the Lord Vitellozzo Vitelli, Tyrant of Città di Castello," he announced, unwittingly
breaking in upon Ramiro's words, "with urgent messages for the high and Mighty Governor of Cesena."

On the instant Ramiro rose, the expression of his face changing from cynical amusement to sober
concern, the task upon which he was engaged forgotten.

"Admit him instantly," he commanded. And whilst he waited he paced the chamber in long strides,
his chin thrust slightly forward, suggestive of deep thought. And during that pause, I, too,
was thinking. Not indeed of him, nor vainly speculating upon such matters as might be involved
in the message, the announcement of which seemed so deeply to engage his mind, but chiefly
of my own and Madonna Paola's concerns.

It was not fear of what I had seen that now sent my thoughts into a new channel and inspired
me with the wisdom of obeying Ramiro del' Orca's behest that I should don the hateful motley
and play the Fool for his diversion. It was not that I feared death; it was that I feared what
the consequences of my death might be to Paola di Santafior.

However desperate a position may seem, unlooked-for loopholes often present themselves, and
so long as we live and have sound limbs to aid us to seize such opportunities as may offer,
it is a weak thing utterly to abandon hope.

Was it, then, not better to submit to the shame of the motley once again for a little time,
when by so doing I might perhaps live to work my own salvation, and Madonna's should she suffer
capture, rather than stubbornly to invite him to put me to death out of a feeling of false pride?

The very resolve seemed to lend me strength and to revive the hope that lay moribund in my
breast. And then, scarce was it taken, when the door again opened, and a man, who was splashed
from head to foot with mud, in earnest of how hard he had ridden, was ushered in.

He advanced to Meser Ramiro, bowed and presented a package. Ramiro broke the seal, and standing
with his back to the fire, immediately in the light shed by one of the wax torches, he read
the letter. Then his eyes wandered to the man who had brought it, and to me it seemed that
they dwelt particularly upon the hat the courier was holding in his hand.

"Take this good fellow to the kitchen," he bade the servant that had introduced him, "let him
be fed and rested." Then, turning to the man, himself, "I shall require you to set out at daybreak
with my answer," he said; and so, with a wave of the hand, he dismissed him. As the messenger
departed Ramiro returned to the table, filled himself a cup of wine and drank.

"What says the Lord Vitelli?" Lampugnani ventured to ask him.

"If he knew you," answered Ramiro, with a scowl, "he would counsel me to strangle some of the
over-inquisitive rascals that surround me."

"Over-inquisitive?" echoed Lampugnani boldly. "Body of God! It were enough to wake the curiosity
of an ecstatic hermit to have a mud-splashed courier from Citta di Castello at Cesena three
times within one little week."

Ramiro looked at him, and by his glance it was plain to see that the words had jarred his temper.
Whatever it was that Vitelli wrote to Ramiro, this gentleman was not minded to divulge it.

"If you have supped, Lampugnani," said the Governor slowly, his eyes upon his offending officer,
"perhaps you will find some duty to perform ere you seek your bed."

Lampugnani turned crimson, and for a moment seemed to hesitate. Then he rose. He was a man
of choleric aspect, and that he served under Ramiro del' Orca was as much a danger to the Governor
as to himself. He had not the air of one whom it was wise to threaten in however veiled a manner.

"Shall I fetch you this fellow's hat ere I sleep?" he inquired, with contemptuous insolence.

Not a word did Ramiro answer him, but his glance fastened upon Lampugnani with an expression
before which that impudent ruffian lowered his own bold eyes. Thus for a moment; then with
an awkward laugh to cover the intimidation that he felt, Lampugnani walked heavily from the
room and banged the door after him.

There was about it all a strangeness that set my wits to work in a mighty busy fashion. That
work suffered interruption by the harsh voice of Ramiro.

"Are you resolved, Boccadoro?" he growled at me. "Have you decided for the motley or the cord?"

Instantly I fell into the part I was to play.

"Did I choose the latter," said I, with an assumption of sudden airiness and such a grimace
as was part and parcel of my old-time trade, "then were I truly worthy of the former, for I
should have proved myself, indeed, a fool. Yet if I choose the former, I pray that you'll not
follow the same course of reasoning, and hold me worthy of the latter."

When he had understood its subtleties; for his wits were of a quality that would have disgraced
a calf, he roared at the conceit, and seemingly thrown into a better humour by the promise
of more such entertainment, he bade my guards release me, and urged me to assume the motley
without more delay.

What time I was obeying him my mind was returning to that matter of Lampugnani's words, and
it is not difficult to understand how I should arrive at the only possible conclusion they
suggested. The hats of the other messengers from Vitelli, that the officer had mentioned, had
been brought to Ramiro. The reason for this that at once arose in my mind was that within the
messenger's hat there was a second and more secret communication for the Governor.

This secrecy and Ramiro's display of anger at seeing a hint of it betrayed by Lampugnani struck
me, not unnaturally, as suspicious. What were these hidden communications that passed between
Vitellozzo Vitelli and the Governor of Cesena? It was a matter of which I could not pretend
to offer a solution, but, nevertheless, it was one, I thought, that promised to repay investigation.

Ramiro grew impatient, and my reflections suffered interruption by his rough command that I
should hasten. One of the men-at-arms helped me to truss my points, and when that was done
I stepped forward--Boccadoro the Fool once more.

CHAPTER XVII. THE SENESCHAL

For an hour or so that night I played the Fool for Messer Ramiro's entertainment in a manner
which did high justice to the fame that at Pesaro I had earned for the name of Boccadoro.

Beginning with quip and jest and paradox, aimed now at him, now at the officer who had remained
to keep him company in his cups, now at the servants who ministered to him, now at the guards
standing at attention, I passed on later to play the part of narrator, and I delighted his
foul and prurient mind with the story of Andreuccio da Perugia and another of the more licentious
tales of Messer Giovanni Boccacci. I crimson now with shame at the manner in which I set myself
to pander to his mood that with my wit I might defend my life and limbs, and preserve them
for the service of my Holy Flower of the Quince in the hour of her need.

One man alone of all those present did I spare my banter. This was the old seneschal, Miriani.
He stood at his post by the buffet, and ever and anon he would come forward to replenish Messer
Ramiro's cup in obedience to the monsters imperious orders.

What fortitude was it, I wondered, that kept the old man outwardly so calm? His face was as
the face of one who is dead, its features set and rigid, its colour ashen. But his step was
tolerably firm, and his hand seemed to have lost the trembling that had assailed it under the
first shock of the horror he had witnessed.

As I watched him furtively I thought that were I Ramiro I should beware of him. That frozen
calm argued to me some terrible labour of the mind beneath that livid mask. But the Governor
of Cesena appeared insensible, or else he was contemptuous of danger from that quarter. It
may even have delighted his outrageous nature to behold a man whose son he had done to death
with such brutality continue obedient and submissive to his will, for it may have flattered
his vanity by the concession that bearing seemed to make to his grim power.

An hour went by, my second tale was done, and I was now entrancing Messer Ramiro with some
impromptu verses upon the divorce of Giovanni Sforza, a theme set me by himself, when I was
interrupted by the arrival of a soldier, who entered unannounced.

I paled and turned cold at the cry with which Ramiro rose to greet him, and the words he dropped,
which told me that here was one of the riders of the party that, under Lucagnolo, had been
ordered to search the country about Cattolica. Had they found Madonna?

"Messer Lucagnolo," the fellow announced, "has sent me to report to you the failure of his
search to the west and north of Cattolica. He has beaten the country thoroughly for three leagues
of the town on those two sides, as you desired him, but unfortunately without result. He is
now spreading his search to the south, and not a house is being left unvisited. By morning
he hopes to report again to your Excellency."

A wild wave of joy swept through my soul. They had ransacked the country west and north of
Cattolica without result. Why then, assuredly, they had missed the peasant's hut that sheltered
her, and where she waited yet for my return. Their search to the south I knew would prove equally
futile. I could have fallen on my knees in a prayer of thanksgiving had my surroundings been
other than they were.

Ramiro's eye wandered round to me and settled on me in a lowering glance. By his face it was
plain that the message disappointed him.

"I wonder," said he, "whether we could make you talk?" And from me his eyes roamed on to the
instrument of torture at the end of that long chamber. I grew sick with fear, for if he were
to do this thing, and maim me by it, how should I avail myself or her hereafter?

"Excellency," I cried, "since you met me you have hinted at something that I am hiding from
you, at something touching which I could give you information did I choose. What it may be
passes all thought of mine. But this I do assure you: no torture could make me tell you what
I do not know, nor is any torture needed to extract from me such information as I may be possessed
of. I do but beg that you wilt frankly question me upon this matter, whatever it may be, and
your Excellency shall be answered to the best of my knowledge."

He looked at me as if taken aback a little by my assurance and the seemingly transparent candour
of my speech, and in his face I saw that he believed me. A moment he hesitated yet; then--

"I am seeking knowledge concerning Madonna Paolo di Santafior," he said presently, resuming,
as he spoke, his seat at table. "As I told you, the body, which was believed to be dead, was
stolen in the night from San Domenico. Know you aught of this?"

It may be an ignoble thing to lie, but with what other weapon was I to fight this brigand?
Surely if an exception can be made to the rule, and a lie become a meritorious thing, such
an occasion as this would surely justify such an exception.

"I know nothing," I answered boldly, unhesitatingly, and even with a ring of truth and sincerity
that was calculated to convince, "nor can I even believe this rumour. It is a wild story. That
the body has been stolen may be true enough. Such things occur; though he was a bold man who
laid hands upon the body of a person of such importance. But that she lives--Gesu! that is
an old wife's tale. I had, myself, the word of the Lord Filippo's physician that she was dead."

"Nevertheless, this old wife's tale, as you dub it, is one of which I have had confirmation.
Lend me your wits, Boccadoro, and you shall not regret it. Exercise them now, and conjecture
me who could have abstracted the body from the church. In seeking this information I am acting
in the interests of the noble House of Borgia which I serve and to which she was to have been
allied, as you well know."

I could have laughed to see how the apparent sincerity of my denial had convinced him to such
an extent that he even sought my help to discover the true thief, and to account for his interest
in the matter he lied to me of his service to the House of Borgia.

"I will gladly lend you these wits," said I, "to disprove to you the rumour of which you say
that you have confirmation. Let us accept the statement that the body has been stolen. That
much, no doubt, is true, for even rumours require some slight foundation. But who in all this
world could say that when the body was taken it was not dead? Clearly but one man--he that
administered the poison. And, I ask your Excellency, would he be likely to tell the world what
he had done?"

He might have answered me: "I am that man." But he did not. Instead, he hung his head, as if
pondering the words of wisdom I had uttered--words meant to convince him of my own innocence
in the matter; and this they achieved, at least in part. He flashed me a look of sudden suspicion,
it is true; but it faded almost as soon as it shone from his brooding eye.

"Maybe I am a fool that I do not string you up and test the truth of what you say," he grumbled.
"But I incline to believe you, and you are a merry rogue. You shall remain and have peace and
comfort so long as you amuse me. But tremble if I discover that you have sought to deceive
me. You shall have the cord first and other things after, and your death shall be the thing
you'll pray for long before it takes you from my vengeance. If you know aught, speak now and
you shall find me merciful. Your life and liberty shall be the recompense of your honesty towards
me."

"I repeat, Excellency," I answered, without changing colour, "that all that I know have I already
told you."

He was convinced, I think, for the time being.

"Get you gone, then," he bade me. "I have other business to deal with ere I sleep. Mariani,
see that Boccadoro is well lodged."

The old man bowed, and lifting a torch from its socket, he silently motioned me to go with
him. I made Messer Ramiro a profound obeisance, and withdrew in the wake of the seneschal.

He led me up a flight of stairs that rose from the hall and along a gallery that ran half round
it, then plunging down a corridor he halted presently, and, opening a door, ushered me into
a tolerably furnished room.

A servant followed hanging the clothes that I had worn when I arrived.

The old man lingered a moment after the servant had withdrawn, and his hollow eyes rested on
me for a second. I thought that he was on the point of saying something, and I waited returning
his glance with one that quailed before the anguish of his own. I feared to speak, to offer
an expression of the sympathy that filled my heart; for in that strange place I could not tell
how far a man was to be trusted--even a man so wronged as this one. On his own part it may
be that a like doubt beset him concerning me, for in the end he departed as he had come, no
word having passed his ashen lips.

Left alone, I surveyed my surroundings by the light of the taper he had left in the iron sconce
on the wall. The single window overlooked the courtyard, so that even had I been disposed and
able to cut through the iron that barred it, I should but succeed in falling into the hands
of the guards who abounded in that nest of infamy.

So that, for the night at least, the notion of flight must be abandoned. What the morrow would
bring forth we must wait and see. Perhaps some way of escape would offer itself. Then my thoughts
returned to Paola, and I was tortured by surmises as to her fate, and chiefly as to how she
could have eluded the search that must have been made for her in the hut where I had left her.
Had the peasant befriended her, I wondered; and what did she think of my protracted absence?
I sat on the edge of the bed and gave rein to my conjectures. The noises in the castle had
all ceased, and still I sat on, unconscious of time, my taper burning low.

It may have been midnight when I was startled by the sound of a stealthy step in the corridor
near my door. A heavy footfall I should have left unheeded, but this soft tread aroused me
on the instant, and I sat listening.

It halted at my door, and was succeeded by a soft, scratching sound. Noiselessly I rose, and
with ready hands I waited, prepared, in the instinct of self-preservation, to fall upon the
intruder, however futile the act might be. But the door did not open as I expected. Instead,
the scratching sound continued, growing slightly louder. Then it occurred to me, at last, that
whoever came might be a friend craving admittance, and proceeding stealthily that others in
the castle might not overhear him.

Swiftly I crossed to the door, and opened. On the threshold a dark figure straightened itself
from a stooping posture, and the light of the taper behind me fell on a face of a pallor that
seemed to glisten in its intensity. It was the face of Mariani, the seneschal of the Castle
of Cessna.

One glance we exchanged, and intuitively I seemed to apprehend the motive of this midnight
visit. He came either to bring me aid or to seek mine, with vengeance for his guerdon. I stood
aside, and silently he entered my room and closed the door.

"Quench your taper," he bade me in a husky whisper.

Without hesitation I obeyed him, a strange excitement thrilling me. For a second we stood in
the dark, then another light gleamed as he plucked away the cloak that masked a lanthorn which
he had brought with him. He set the lanthorn on the floor, and held the cloak in his hand,
ready at a moment's notice to conceal the light in its folds. Then pulling me down beside him
on the bed, where he had perched himself:

"My friend," said he, "it may be that I bring you assistance."

"Speak, then," I bade him. "You shall not find me slow to act if there is the need or the way."

"So I had surmised," he said. "Are you not that same Boccadoro, Fool of the Court of Pesaro,
who donned the Lord Giovanni's armour and rode out to do battle in his stead?"

I answered him that I was that man.

"I have heard the tale," said he. "Indeed, all Italy has heard it, and knows you for a man
of steel, as strong and audacious as you are cunning and resourceful. I know against what desperate
odds you fought that day, and how you overcame this terrible Ramiro. This it is that leads
me to hope that in the service of your own ends you may become the instrument of my vengeance."

"Unfold your project, man," I muttered, fiercely almost, in my burning eagerness. "Let me hear
what you would have me do."

He did not answer me until a sob had shaken his old frame.

"That boy," he muttered brokenly, "that golden-haired angel sent me for the consolation of
my decaying years, that lad whom Ramiro destroyed so foully and wantonly, was my son. Futile
though the attempt had proved, I had certainly set my hands at the tyrants neck, but that I
founded hopes on you of a surer and more terrible revenge. That thought has manned me and upheld
me when anguish was near to slaying me outright. To see the boy burn so under my very eyes!
God of mercy and pity! That I should have lived so long!"

"Your child burned but a moment, suffered but an instant; for the deed, Ramiro will burn in
Hell through countless generations, through interminable ages."

It was a paltry consolation, perhaps, but it was the best that then occurred to me.

"Meanwhile," I begged him, "do you tell me what you would have me do."

I urged him to it that he might, thereby, suffer his mind to rest a moment from pondering that
ghastly thing that he had witnessed, that scene that would live before his eyes until they
closed in their last sleep.

"You heard Lampugnani quip Ramiro with the fact that three messengers have ridden desperately
within the week from Citta di Castello to Cesena, and you heard, perhaps, his obscure reference
to the hat?"

"I heard both, and both I weighed," said I. The old man looked at me as if surprised.

"And what," he asked, "was the conclusion you arrived at?"

"Why, simply this: that whilst the messenger bore some letter from Vitelli to Ramiro that should
serve to lull the suspicions of any who, wondering at so much traffic between these two, should
be moved to take a peep into those missives, the true letter with which the courier rides is
concealed within the lining of his hat--probably unknown even to himself."

He stared at me as though I had been a wizard.

"Messer Boccadoro--" he began.

"My name," I corrected him, "is Biancomonte--Lazzaro Biancomonte."

"Whatever be your name," he returned, "of the quality of your wits there can be no question.
You have guessed for yourself the half of what I was come to tell you. Has your shrewdness
borne you any further? Have you concluded aught concerning the nature of those letters?"

"I have concluded that it might repay some trouble to discover what is contained in letters
that are sent with so much secrecy. I can conceive nothing that might lie between the Lord
of Citta di Castello and this ruffian of Cesena, and yet--treason lurks often where least it
is expected, and treason makes stranger bed-fellows than misfortune."

"Lampugnani was no fool, and yet a great fool," the old man murmured. He surmised what you
have surmised. With each of the messengers Ramiro has dealt in the same manner. He has sent
each to be fed and refreshed whilst waiting to return with the answer he was penning. For their
refreshment he has ordered a very full, stout wine--not drugged, for that they might discover
upon awaking; but a wine that of itself would do the work of setting them to sleep very soundly.
Then, when all slept, and only he remained at table, like the drunkard that he is, it has been
his habit to descend himself to the kitchen and possess himself of the messenger's hat. With
this he has returned to the hall, opened the lining and withdrawn a letter.

"Then, as I suppose, he has penned his answer, thrust it into the lining, where the other one
had been, and secured it, as it was before, with his own hands. He has returned the hat to
the place from whence he took it, and when the courier awakens in the morning there is another
letter put into his hand, and he is bidden to bear it to Vitelli."

He paused a moment; then continued: "Lampugnani must have suspected something and watched Ramiro
to make sure that his suspicions were well founded. In that he was wise, but he was a fool
to allow Ramiro to see what lie he had discovered. Already he has paid the penalty. He is lying
with a dagger in his throat, for an hour ago Ramiro stabbed him while he slept."

I shuddered. What a place of blood was this! Could it be that Cesare Borgia had no knowledge
of what things were being performed by his Governor of Cesena?

"Poor Lampugnani!" I sighed. "God rest his soul."

"I doubt but he is in Hell," answered Mariani, without emotion. "He was as great a villain
as his master, and he has gone to answer for his villainy even as this ugly monster of a Ramiro
shall. But let Lampugnani be. I am not come to talk of him.

"Returning from his bloody act, Ramiro ordered me to bed. I went, and as I passed Lampugnani's
room I saw the door standing wide. It was thus that I learnt what had befallen. I remembered
his words concerning the hat and I remembered old suspicions of my own aroused by the thought
of the potent wine which Ramiro had ordered me to see given to the couriers. I sped back to
the gallery that overlooks the hall. Ramiro was absent, and I surmised at once that he was
gone to the kitchen. Then was it that I thought of you and of what service you might render
if things were indeed as I now more than suspected. Like an inspiration it came to me how I
might prepare your way. I ran down to the hall, sweating in my terror that he should return
ere I had performed the task I went on. From the buffet I drew a flagon of that same stout
wine that Ramiro used upon his messengers. I ripped away the seal and crimson cord by which
it is distinguished, and placing it on the table I removed the flagon I had set for him before
I had first departed.

"Then I fled back to the gallery, and from the shadows I watched for his return. Soon he came,
bearing a hat in his hand; and from that hat he took a letter, all as you have surmised. He
read it, and I saw his face lighten with a fierce excitement. Then he helped himself freely
to wine, and drank thirstily, for all that he was overladen with it. One of the qualities of
this wine is that in quenching thirst it produces yet a greater. Ramiro drank again, then sat
with the letter before him in the light of the single taper I had left burning. Presently he
grew sleepy. He shook himself and drank again. Then again he sat conning his epistle, and thus
I left him and came hither in quest of you."

There followed a pause.

"Well?" I asked at length. "What is it you would have me do? Stab him as he sleeps?"

He shook his head. "That were too sweet and sudden a death for him. If it had been no more
than a matter of that, my old arms would have lent me strength enough. But think you it would
repay me for having seen my boy pinned by that monster's pike to the burning logs?"

"What is it, then, you ask of me?"

"If that letter were indeed the treasonable document we account it; if its treason should be
aimed at Cesare Borgia--it could scarce be aimed at another--would it not be a sweet thing
to obtain possession of it?"

"Aye, but when he wakes to-morrow and finds it gone--what then? You know this Governor of Cesena
well enough to be assured that he would ransack the castle, torture, rack, burn and flay us
all until the missive were forthcoming."

"That," he groaned, "is what deterred me. If I had the means of getting the letter sent to
Cesare Borgia, or of escaping with it myself from Cesena, I should not have hesitated. Cesare
Borgia is lying at Faenza, and I could ride there in a day. But it would be impossible for
me to leave the place before morning. I have duties to perform in the town, and I might get
away whilst I am about them, but before then the letter will have been missed, and no one will
be allowed to leave the citadel."

"Why then," said I, "the only hope lies in abstracting that letter in such a manner that he
shall not suspect the loss; and that seems a very desperate hope."

We sat in silence for some moments, during which I thought intently to little purpose.

"Does he sleep yet, think you?" I asked presently.

"Assuredly he must."

"And if I were to go to the gallery, is there any fear that I should be discovered by others?"

"None. All at Cesena are asleep by now."

"Then," said I, rising, "let us take a look at him. Who knows what may suggest itself? Come."
I moved towards the door, and he took up his lanthorn and followed me, enjoining me to tread
lightly.

CHAPTER XVIII. THE LETTER

On tiptoe I crept down that corridor to the gallery above the banqueting-hall, secure from
sight in the enveloping darkness, and intent upon allowing no sound to betray my presence,
lest Ramiro should have awakened. Behind me, treading as lightly, came Messer Mariani.

Thus we gained the gallery. I leaned against the stout oaken balustrade, and looked down into
the black pit of the hall, broken in the centre by the circle of light from the two tapers
that burnt upon the table. The other torches had all been quenched.

At the table sat Messer Ramiro, his head fallen forward and sideways upon his right arm which
was outstretched and limp along the board. Before him lay a paper which I inferred to be the
letter whose possession might mean so much.

I could hear the old man breathing heavily beside me as I leaned there in the dark, and sought
to devise a means by which that paper might be obtained. No doubt it would be the easiest thing
in the world to snatch it away without disturbing him. But there was always to be considered
that when he waked and missed the letter we should have to reckon with his measures to regain
possession of it.

It became necessary, therefore, to go about it in a manner that should leave him unsuspicious
of the theft. A little while I pondered this, deeming the thing desperate at first. Then an
idea came to me on a sudden, and turning to Mariani I asked him could he find me a sheet of
paper of about the size of that letter held by Ramiro. He answered me that he could, and bade
me wait there until he should return.

I waited, watching the sleeper below, my excitement waxing with every second of the delay.
Ramiro was snoring now--a loud, sonorous snore that rang like a trumpet-blast through that
vast empty hall.

At last Mariani returned, bringing the sheet of paper I had asked for, and he was full of questions
of what I intended. But neither the place nor the time was one in which to stand unfolding
plans. Every moment wasted increased the uncertainty of the success of my design. Someone might
come, or Ramiro might awaken despite the potency of the wine he had been given--for on so well-seasoned
a toper the most potent of wines could have but a transient effect.

So I left Mariani, and moved swiftly and silently to the head of the staircase.

I had gone down two steps, when, in the dark, I missed the third, the bells in my cap jangling
at the shock. I brought my teeth together and stood breathless in apprehension, fearing that
the noise might awaken him, and cursing myself for a careless fool to have forgotten those
infernal bells. Above me I heard a warning hiss from old Mariani, which, if anything, increased
my dread. But Ramiro snored on, and I was reassured.

A moment I stood debating whether I should go on, or first return to divest myself of that
cap of mine. In the end I decided to pursue the latter course. The need for swift and sudden
movement might come ere I was done with this adventure, and those bells might easily be the
undoing of me. So back I went to the surprise and infinite dismay of Mariani until I had whispered
in his ear the reason. We retreated together to the corridor, and there, with his help, I removed
my jangling headgear, which I left him to restore to my chamber.

Whilst he went upon that errand I returned once more on mine, and this time I gained the foot
of the stairs without mishap, and stood in the hall. Ramiro's back was towards me. On my right
stood the tall buffet from which the boy had fetched him wine that evening; this I marked out
as the cover to which I must fly in case of need.

A second I stood hesitating, still considering my course; then I went softly forward, my feet
making no sound in the rushes of the floor. I had covered half the distance, and, growing bolder,
I was advancing more swiftly and with less caution, when suddenly my knee came in contact with
a three-legged stool that had been carelessly left where none would have suspected it. The
blow may have hurt afterwards, indeed, I was conscious of a soreness at the knee; but at the
moment I had no thought or care for physical pain. The bench went over with a crash, and for
all that the rushes may have deadened in part the sound of its fall, to my nervous ear it boomed
like the report of a cannon through the stillness of the place.

I turned cold as ice, and the sweat of fear sprang out to moisten me from head to foot. Instantly
I dropped on all fours, lest Ramiro, awaking suddenly, should turn; and I waited for the least
sign that should render advisable my seeking the cover of the buffet. In the gallery above
I could picture old Mariani clenching his teeth at the noise, his knees knocking together,
and his face white with horror; for Ramiro's snoring had abruptly ceased. It came to an end
with a choking catch of the breath, and I looked to see him raise his head and start up to
ascertain what it was that had aroused him. But he never stirred, and for all that he no longer
snored, his breathing continued heavy and regular, so that I was cheered by the assurance that
I had but disturbed his slumber, not dispelled it.

Yet, since I had disturbed and lightened it, a greater precaution was now necessary, and I
waited there for some ten minutes maybe, a period that must have proved a very eternity to
the old man upstairs. At last I had the reward of hearing the snoring recommence; lightly at
first, but soon with all its former fullness.

I rose and proceeded now with a caution that must guard me from any more unlooked-for obstacles.
Moreover, as I approached, the darkness was dispelled more and more at every stride in the
direction of the light. At last I reached the table, and stood silent as a spectre at Ramiro's
side, looking down upon the features of the sleeping man.

His face was flushed, and his tawny hair tumbled about his damp brow; his lips quivered as
he breathed. For a moment, as I stood gazing on him, there was murder in my mind. His dagger
hung temptingly in his girdle. To have drawn it and rid the world of this monster might have
been a worthy deed, acceptable in the eyes of Heaven. But how should it profit me? Rather must
it prove my destruction at the hands of his followers, and to be destroyed just then, with
Paola depending upon me, and life full of promise once I regained my liberty, was something
I had no mind to risk.

My eyes wandered to the letter lying on the table. If this were of the nature we suspected,
it should prove a safer tool for his destruction.

To read it as it lay was an easy matter, and it came to me then that ere I decided upon my
course it might be well that I should do so. If by chance it were innocent of treason, why,
then, I might resort to the risk of that other and more desperate weapon--his own dagger.

At the foot of the short flight of steps that led from the hall to the courtyard I could hear
the slow pacing of the sentry placed there by Ramiro. But unless he were summoned, it was extremely
unlikely that the fellow would leave his post, so that, I concluded, I had little to fear from
that quarter. I drew back and taking up a position behind Ramiro's chair--a position more favourable
to escape in the untoward event of his awaking--I craned forward to read the letter over his
shoulder. I thanked God in that hour for two things: that my sight was keen, and that Vitellozzo
Vitelli wrote a large, bold hand.

Scarcely breathing, and distracted the while by the mad racing of my pulses, I read; and this,
as nearly as I can remember, is what the letter contained:

"ILLUSTRIOUS RAMIRO--Your answer to my last letter reached me safely, and it rejoiced me to
learn that you had found a man for our undertaking. See that you have him in readiness, for
the hour of action is at hand. Cesare goes south on the second or third day of the New Year,
and he has announced to me his intention of passing through Cesena on his way, there to investigate
certain charges of maladministration which have been preferred against you. These concern,
in particular, certain misappropriation of grain and stores, and an excessive severity of rule,
of which complaints have reached him. From this you will gather that out of a spirit of self-defence,
if not to earn the reward which we have bound ourselves to pay you, it is expedient that you
should not fail us. The occasion of the Duke's visit to Cesena will be, of all, the most propitious
for our purpose. Have your arbalister posed, and may God strengthen his arm and render true
his aim to the end that Italy may be rid of a tyrant. I commend myself to your Excellency,
and I shall anxiously await your news.

"VITELLOZZO VITELLI."

Here indeed were my hopes realised. A plot there was, and it aimed at nothing less than the
Duca Valentino's life. Let that letter be borne to Cesare Borgia at Faenza, and I would warrant
that within a dozen hours of his receipt of it he would so dispose that all who had suffered
by the cruel tyranny of Ramiro del' Orca would be avenged, and those who were still suffering
would be relieved. In this letter lay my own freedom and the salvation of Madonna Paula, and
this letter it behoved me at once to become possessed. It was a safer far alternative than
that dagger of his.

A moment I stood pondering the matter for the last time, then stepping sideways and forward,
so that I was again beside him, I put out my hand and swiftly whipped the letter from the table.
Then standing very still, to prevent the slightest rustle, I remained a second or two observing
him. He snored on, undisturbed by my light-fingered action.

I drew away a pace or two, as lightly as I might, and folding the letter I thrust it into my
girdle. Then from my open doublet I drew the sheet that Mariani had supplied me, and, advancing
again, I placed it on the table in a position almost identical with that which the original
had occupied, saving that it was removed a half-finger's breadth from his hand, for I feared
to allow it actually to touch him lest it should arouse him.

Holding my breath, for now was I come to the most desperate part of my undertaking, I caught
up one of the tapers and set fire to a corner of the sheet. That done, I left the candle lying
on its side against the paper, so as to convey the impression to him, when presently he awakened,
that it had fallen from it sconce. Then, without waiting for more, I backed swiftly away, watching
the progress of the flames as they devoured the paper and presently reached his hand and scorched
it.

At that I dropped again on all fours, and having gained the corner of the buffet, I crouched
there, even as with a sudden scream of pain he woke and sprang upright, shaking his blistered
hand. As a matter of instinct he looked about to see what it was had hurt him. Then his eyes
fell upon the charred paper on the table, and the fallen candle, which was still burning across
one end of it, and even to the dull wits of Ramiro del' Orca the only possible conclusion was
suggested. He stared at it a moment, then swept that flimsy sheet of ashes from the table with
an oath, and sank back once more into his great leathern chair.

"Body of God!" he swore aloud, "it is well that I had read it a dozen times. Better that it
should have been burnt than that someone should have read it whilst I slept."

The idea of such a possibility seemed to rouse him to fresh action, for seizing the fallen
candle and replacing it in its socket, he rose once more, and holding it high above his head
he looked about the hall.

The light it shed may have been feeble, and the shadows about my buffet thick; but, as I have
said, my doublet was open, and some ray of that weak candlelight must have found out the white
shirt that was showing at my breast, for with a sudden cry he pushed back his chair and took
a step towards me, no doubt intent upon investigating that white something that he saw gleaming
there.

I waited for no more. I had no fancy to be caught in that corner, utterly at his mercy. I stood
up suddenly.

"Magnificent, it is I," I announced, with a calm and boundless effrontery.

