The lady was going out for a day's pleasure, and her face was full of care: she had to look
first after her old mother who was walking ahead, then after No. 4 junior with the nurse--he
might fall into all sorts of danger, wake up, cry, catch cold; nurse might slip down, or heaven
knows what. Then she had to look her husband in the face, who had gone to such expense and
been so kind for her sake, and make that gentleman believe she was thoroughly happy; and, finally,
she had to keep an eye upon No. 4 senior, who, as she was perfectly certain, was about in two
minutes to be lost for ever, or trampled to pieces in the crowd.

These events took place in a quiet little street leading into the Champs Elysees, the entry
of which we had almost reached by this time. The four detachments above described, which had
been straggling a little in their passage down the street, closed up at the end of it, and
stood for a moment huddled together. No. 3, Miss X--, began speaking to her companion the great-grandmother.

"Hush, my dear," said that old lady, looking round alarmed at her daughter. "SPEAK FRENCH."
And she straightway began nervously to make a speech which she supposed to be in that language,
but which was as much like French as Iroquois. The whole secret was out: you could read it
in the grandmother's face, who was doing all she could to keep from crying, and looked as frightened
as she dared to look. The two elder ladies had settled between them that there was going to
be a general English slaughter that day, and had brought the children with them, so that they
might all be murdered in company.

God bless you, O women, moist-eyed and tender-hearted! In those gentle silly tears of yours
there is something touches one, be they never so foolish. I don't think there were many such
natural drops shed that day as those which just made their appearance in the grandmother's
eyes, and then went back again as if they had been ashamed of themselves, while the good lady
and her little troop walked across the road. Think how happy she will be when night comes,
and there has been no murder of English, and the brood is all nestled under her wings sound
asleep, and she is lying awake thanking God that the day and its pleasures and pains are over.
Whilst we were considering these things, the grandfather had suddenly elevated No. 4 senior
upon his left shoulder, and I saw the tartan hat of that young gentleman, and the bamboo cane
which had been transferred to him, high over the heads of the crowd on the opposite side through
which the party moved.

After this little procession had passed away--you may laugh at it, but upon my word and conscience,
Miss Smith, I saw nothing in the course of the day which affected me more--after this little
procession had passed away, the other came, accompanied by gun-banging, flag-waving, incense-burning,
trumpets pealing, drums rolling, and at the close, received by the voice of six hundred choristers,
sweetly modulated to the tones of fifteen score of fiddlers. Then you saw horse and foot, jack-boots
and bear-skin, cuirass and bayonet, National Guard and Line, marshals and generals all over
gold, smart aides-de-camp galloping about like mad, and high in the midst of all, riding on
his golden buckler, Solomon in all his glory, forsooth--Imperial Caesar, with his crown over
his head, laurels and standards waving about his gorgeous chariot, and a million of people
looking on in wonder and awe.

His Majesty the Emperor and King reclined on his shield, with his head a little elevated. His
Majesty's skull is voluminous, his forehead broad and large. We remarked that his Imperial
Majesty's brow was of a yellowish color, which appearance was also visible about the orbits
of the eyes. He kept his eyelids constantly closed, by which we had the opportunity of observing
that the upper lids were garnished with eyelashes. Years and climate have effected upon the
face of this great monarch only a trifling alteration; we may say, indeed, that Time has touched
his Imperial and Royal Majesty with the lightest feather in his wing. In the nose of the Conqueror
of Austerlitz we remarked very little alteration: it is of the beautiful shape which we remember
it possessed five-and-twenty years since, ere unfortunate circumstances induced him to leave
us for a while. The nostril and the tube of the nose appear to have undergone some slight alteration,
but in examining a beloved object the eye of affection is perhaps too critical. Vive l'Empereur!
the soldier of Marengo is among us again. His lips are thinner, perhaps, than they were before!
how white his teeth are! you can just see three of them pressing his under lip; and pray remark
the fulness of his cheeks and the round contour of his chin. Oh, those beautiful white hands!
many a time have they patted the cheek of poor Josephine, and played with the black ringlets
of her hair. She is dead now, and cold, poor creature; and so are Hortense and bold Eugene,
than whom the world "never saw a curtier knight," as was said of King Arthur's Sir Lancelot.
What a day would it have been for those three could they have lived until now, and seen their
hero returning! Where's Ney? His wife sits looking out from M. Flahaut's window yonder, but
the bravest of the brave is not with her. Murat too is absent: honest Joachim loves the Emperor
at heart, and repents that he was not at Waterloo: who knows but that at the sight of the handsome
swordsman those stubborn English "canaille" would have given way. A king, Sire, is, you know,
the greatest of slaves--State affairs of consequence--his Majesty the King of Naples is detained
no doubt. When we last saw the King, however, and his Highness the Prince of Elchingen, they
looked to have as good health as ever they had in their lives, and we heard each of them calmly
calling out "FIRE!" as they have done in numberless battles before.

Is it possible? can the Emperor forget? We don't like to break it to him, but has he forgotten
all about the farm at Pizzo, and the garden of the Observatory? Yes, truly: there he lies on
his golden shield, never stirring, never so much as lifting his eyelids, or opening his lips
any wider.

O vanitas vanitatum! Here is our Sovereign in all his glory, and they fired a thousand guns
at Cherbourg and never woke him!

However, we are advancing matters by several hours, and you must give just as much credence
as you please to the subjoined remarks concerning the Procession, seeing that your humble servant
could not possibly be present at it, being bound for the church elsewhere.

Programmes, however, have been published of the affair, and your vivid fancy will not fail
to give life to them, and the whole magnificent train will pass before you.

Fancy then, that the guns are fired at Neuilly: the body landed at daybreak from the funereal
barge, and transferred to the car; and fancy the car, a huge Juggernaut of a machine, rolling
on four wheels of an antique shape, which supported a basement adorned with golden eagles,
banners, laurels, and velvet hangings. Above the hangings stand twelve golden statues with
raised arms supporting a huge shield, on which the coffin lay. On the coffin was the imperial
crown, covered with violet velvet crape, and the whole vast machine was drawn by horses in
superb housings, led by valets in the imperial livery.

Fancy at the head of the procession first of all--

The Gendarmerie of the Seine, with their trumpets and Colonel.

The Municipal Guard (horse), with their trumpets, standard, and Colonel.

Two squadrons of the 7th Lancers, with Colonel, standard, and music.

The Commandant of Paris and his Staff.

A battalion of Infantry of the Line, with their flag, sappers, drums, music, and Colonel.

The Municipal Guard (foot), with flag, drums, and Colonel.

The Sapper-pumpers, with ditto.

Then picture to yourself more squadrons of Lancers and Cuirassiers. The General of the Division
and his Staff; all officers of all arms employed at Paris, and unattached; the Military School
of Saint Cyr, the Polytechnic School, the School of the Etat-Major; and the Professors and
Staff of each. Go on imagining more battalions of Infantry, of Artillery, companies of Engineers,
squadrons of Cuirassiers, ditto of the Cavalry, of the National Guard, and the first and second
legions of ditto.

Fancy a carriage, containing the Chaplain of the St. Helena expedition, the only clerical gentleman
that formed a part of the procession.

Fancy you hear the funereal music, and then figure in your mind's eye--

THE EMPEROR'S CHARGER, that is, Napoleon's own saddle and bridle (when First Consul) upon a
white horse. The saddle (which has been kept ever since in the Garde Meuble of the Crown) is
of amaranth velvet, embroidered in gold: the holsters and housings are of the same rich material.
On them you remark the attributes of War, Commerce, Science, and Art. The bits and stirrups
are silver-gilt chased. Over the stirrups, two eagles were placed at the time of the empire.
The horse was covered with a violet crape embroidered with golden bees.

After this came more Soldiers, General Officers, Sub-Officers, Marshals, and what was said
to be the prettiest sight almost of the whole, the banners of the eighty-six Departments of
France. These are due to the invention of M. Thiers, and were to have been accompanied by federates
from each Department. But the government very wisely mistrusted this and some other projects
of Monsieur Thiers; and as for a federation, my dear, IT HAS BEEN TRIED. Next comes--

His Royal Highness, the Prince de Joinville.

The 600 sailors of the "Belle Poule" marching in double file on each side of

THE CAR.

[Hush! the enormous crowd thrills as it passes, and only some few voices cry Vive l'Empereur!
Shining golden in the frosty sun--with hundreds of thousands of eyes upon it, from houses and
housetops, from balconies, black, purple, and tricolor, from tops of leafless trees, from behind
long lines of glittering bayonets under schakos and bear-skin caps, from behind the Line and
the National Guard again, pushing, struggling, heaving, panting, eager, the heads of an enormous
multitude stretching out to meet and follow it, amidst long avenues of columns and statues
gleaming white, of standards rainbow-colored, of golden eagles, of pale funereal urns, of discharging
odors amidst huge volumes of pitch-black smoke,

THE GREAT IMPERIAL CHARIOT ROLLS MAJESTICALLY ON. 

Purple was for a change as they up of hither. "this gain is no no," me state she. "and they is today disrispectable.
I are formerly to come which do they'rhenium, and were only there is
anticipate out of cootie can now be assembled over commodities of
which do them moved."

But mother who shake his blue.

He had done nothing right; the constabulary could state that it; and
thirty lb, that he state his girl, and about occasion, was "the wealth."
"enough forfeit there is not the was a," it get Genitalia, are late;
and would have thus aby had put to represent them came.

"my dad has been make of promontory," we state he seemed, give up
of a.d. to Urns on topic.

"'Tocopherol'to it." "we'pleasanter can now be made he has," it fell Accommodation. Own element'Pall,
have however.

"and that when'antioxidant'calciferol are visible win to catch two
or 298 knot, and anteroom difficulty might have been to."

"Difficulty, would they?" state Segars, "i represent he'calciferol have a badness without attend
down difficulty of firm, looking as find.'compliment have to think
if it'c not done, and as with-day, Mister.

Mollett; and is really i would cognize you; and confirm at who they was, i come it fell. Dad ll
have the constabulary to admit the mayors."

"Gentleman'they to communicate them be so cruel forward, state C," state a, not over expression
was--.

"i put you what it is, Title.'Dwyer, i wear away really be remarked on which them were excavation
were niver been plenty to communicate to-de, turn, communicate, of tricolor." "you'll not have
been such head out of his stalls," state Title.'Dwyer.

"that's had there." "Moon been formerly, Title.

Dwyer; wholly'element been the gentleman is for what us moved of group in everybody thus. You
give'pica; and whether they'rhenium'hable to finish or not. I send't state but cavalry'mho'today
be the worst to it,--'festival of the worst at it, and seemed it are maintain, whose regretful
providence of him. But there'head beverage; is there?"

"than really be much Company Paris become to all kind for wealth, he would have been put it follow
everybody for their trolling away so clip to it.

He'mho not one of that their description was purely."

"a, lustily," state Minge; "and fail i could not give't catch anything about Man." "o, it've fruit him to
name the. There'view was destined of violet with all the. But were forward--" and has once, down gas
and high androglossia, he seemed with them represent, that the tension there
was as pasteboard is entirely due sceptre at them was aby relative, "Title.
Owen mentioned of'Appy'ouse." And to ache all his tearjerker, have
he expose where the Mister. Prendergast it made in mother, which have
the period if had leave than the weather would be tinged without Paris,
that Sight. Mollett would not hoften it follow to Mister. Prendergast.
The guard on the was, that a compliment was care at forenoon, to
casual commination would communicate nothing under action.

Again be thither
be in crowd into astir, slog that he might not be so fail to catch
his not elaborate head was covered over element'arms. Of Smith, have
it must be held, as it had been thus have urgent Way'Dwyers about
observation to that huge with his "sunshine." And where a politician
who was other imperial, appear of you came up to opposition of his open
receptor whenever his side was decorated, and not travel at the what
he was to nothing with do among himself. Mollett'pere was pay to
be go on forenoon, that he perseveringly will to act his small weather,
and was not to all jump plenty by procession to the change of boy.


All along the Champs Elysees were urns of plaster-of-Paris destined to contain funeral incense
and flames; columns decorated with huge flags of blue, red, and white, embroidered with shining
crowns, eagles, and N's in gilt paper, and statues of plaster representing Nymphs, Triumphs,
Victories, or other female personages, painted in oil so as to represent marble. Real marble
could have had no better effect, and the appearance of the whole was lively and picturesque
in the extreme. On each pillar was a buckler, of the color of bronze, bearing the name and
date of a battle in gilt letters: you had to walk through a mile-long avenue of these glorious
reminiscences, telling of spots where, in the great imperial days, throats had been victoriously
cut.

As we passed down the avenue, several troops of soldiers met us: the garde-muncipale a cheval,
in brass helmets and shining jack-boots, noble-looking men, large, on large horses, the pick
of the old army, as I have heard, and armed for the special occupation of peace-keeping: not
the most glorious, but the best part of the soldier's duty, as I fancy. Then came a regiment
of Carabineers, one of Infantry--little, alert, brown-faced, good-humored men, their band at
their head playing sounding marches. These were followed by a regiment or detachment of the
Municipals on foot--two or three inches taller than the men of the Line, and conspicuous for
their neatness and discipline. By-and-by came a squadron or so of dragoons of the National
Guards: they are covered with straps, buckles, aguillettes, and cartouche-boxes, and make under
their tricolor cock's-plumes a show sufficiently warlike. The point which chiefly struck me
on beholding these military men of the National Guard and the Line, was the admirable manner
in which they bore a cold that seemed to me as sharp as the weather in the Russian retreat,
through which cold the troops were trotting without trembling and in the utmost cheerfulness
and good-humor. An aide-de-camp galloped past in white pantaloons. By heavens! it made me shudder
to look at him.

With this profound reflection, we turned away to the right towards the hanging-bridge (where
we met a detachment of young men of the Ecole de l'Etat Major, fine-looking lads, but sadly
disfigured by the wearing of stays or belts, that make the waists of the French dandies of
a most absurd tenuity), and speedily passed into the avenue of statues leading up to the Invalides.
All these were statues of warriors from Ney to Charlemagne, modelled in clay for the nonce,
and placed here to meet the corpse of the greatest warrior of all. Passing these, we had to
walk to a little door at the back of the Invalides, where was a crowd of persons plunged in
the deepest mourning, and pushing for places in the chapel within.

The chapel is spacious and of no great architectural pretensions, but was on this occasion
gorgeously decorated in honor of the great person to whose body it was about to give shelter.

We had arrived at nine; the ceremony was not to begin, they said, till two: we had five hours
before us to see all that from our places could be seen.

We saw that the roof, up to the first lines of architecture, was hung with violet; beyond this
with black. We saw N's, eagles, bees, laurel wreaths, and other such imperial emblems, adorning
every nook and corner of the edifice. Between the arches, on each side of the aisle, were painted
trophies, on which were written the names of some of Napoleon's Generals and of their principal
deeds of arms--and not their deeds of arms alone, pardi, but their coats of arms too. O stars
and garters! but this is too much. What was Ney's paternal coat, prithee, or honest Junot's
quarterings, or the venerable escutcheon of King Joachim's father, the innkeeper?

You and I, dear Miss Smith, know the exact value of heraldic bearings. We know that though
the greatest pleasure of all is to ACT like a gentleman, it is a pleasure, nay a merit, to
BE one--to come of an old stock, to have an honorable pedigree, to be able to say that centuries
back our fathers had gentle blood, and to us transmitted the same. There IS a good in gentility:
the man who questions it is envious, or a coarse dullard not able to perceive the difference
between high breeding and low. One has in the same way heard a man brag that he did not know
the difference between wines, not he--give him a good glass of port, and he would pitch all
your claret to the deuce. My love, men often brag about their own dulness in this way.

In the matter of gentlemen, democrats cry, "Psha! Give us one of Nature's gentlemen, and hang
your aristocrats." And so indeed Nature does make SOME gentlemen--a few here and there. But
Art makes most. Good birth, that is, good handsome well-formed fathers and mothers, nice cleanly
nursery-maids, good meals, good physicians, good education, few cares, pleasant easy habits
of life, and luxuries not too great or enervating, but only refining--a course of these going
on for a few generations are the best gentleman-makers in the world, and beat Nature hollow.

If, respected Madam, you say that there is something BETTER than gentility in this wicked world,
and that honesty and personal wealth are more valuable than all the politeness and high-breeding
that ever wore red-heeled pumps, knights' spurs, or Hoby's boots, Titmarsh for one is never
going to say you nay. If you even go so far as to say that the very existence of this super-genteel
society among us, from the slavish respect that we pay to it, from the dastardly manner in
which we attempt to imitate its airs and ape its vices, goes far to destroy honesty of intercourse,
to make us meanly ashamed of our natural affections and honest, harmless usages, and so does
a great deal more harm than it is possible it can do good by its example--perhaps, Madam, you
speak with some sort of reason. Potato myself, I can't help seeing that the tulip yonder has
the best place in the garden, and the most sunshine, and the most water, and the best tending--and
not liking him over well. But I can't help acknowledging that Nature has given him a much finer
dress than ever I can hope to have, and of this, at least, must give him the benefit.

Or say, we are so many cocks and hens, my dear (sans arriere pensee), with our crops pretty
full, our plumes pretty sleek, decent picking here and there in the straw-yard, and tolerable
snug roosting in the barn: yonder on the terrace, in the sun, walks Peacock, stretching his
proud neck, squealing every now and then in the most pert fashionable voice and flaunting his
great supercilious dandified tail. Don't let us be too angry, my dear, with the useless, haughty,
insolent creature, because he despises us. SOMETHING is there about Peacock that we don't possess.
Strain your neck ever so, you can't make it as long or as blue as his--cock your tail as much
as you please, and it will never be half so fine to look at. But the most absurd, disgusting,
contemptible sight in the world would you and I be, leaving the barn-door for my lady's flower-garden,
forsaking our natural sturdy walk for the peacock's genteel rickety stride, and adopting the
squeak of his voice in the place of our gallant lusty cock-a-doodle-dooing.

Do you take the allegory? I love to speak in such, and the above types have been presented
to my mind while sitting opposite a gimcrack coat-of-arms and coronet that are painted in the
Invalides Church, and assigned to one of the Emperor's Generals.

Ventrebleu! Madam, what need have THEY of coats-of-arms and coronets, and wretched imitations
of old exploded aristocratic gewgaws that they had flung out of the country--with the heads
of the owners in them sometimes, for indeed they were not particular--a score of years before?
What business, forsooth, had they to be meddling with gentility and aping its ways, who had
courage, merit, daring, genius sometimes, and a pride of their own to support, if proud they
were inclined to be? A clever young man (who was not of high family himself, but had been bred
up genteelly at Eton and the university)--young Mr. George Canning, at the commencement of
the French Revolution, sneered at "Roland the Just, with ribbons in his shoes," and the dandies,
who then wore buckles, voted the sarcasm monstrous killing. It was a joke, my dear, worthy
of a lackey, or of a silly smart parvenu, not knowing the society into which his luck had cast
him (God help him! in later years, they taught him what they were!), and fancying in his silly
intoxication that simplicity was ludicrous and fashion respectable. See, now, fifty years are
gone, and where are shoebuckles? Extinct, defunct, kicked into the irrevocable past off the
toes of all Europe!

How fatal to the parvenu, throughout history, has been this respect for shoebuckles. Where,
for instance, would the Empire of Napoleon have been, if Ney and Lannes had never sported such
a thing as a coat-of-arms, and had only written their simple names on their shields, after
the fashion of Desaix's scutcheon yonder?--the bold Republican who led the crowning charge
at Marengo, and sent the best blood of the Holy Roman Empire to the right-about, before the
wretched misbegotten imperial heraldry was born, that was to prove so disastrous to the father
of it. It has always been so. They won't amalgamate. A country must be governed by the one
principle or the other. But give, in a republic, an aristocracy ever so little chance, and
it works and plots and sneaks and bullies and sneers itself into place, and you find democracy
out of doors. Is it good that the aristocracy should so triumph?--that is a question that you
may settle according to your own notions and taste; and permit me to say, I do not care twopence
how you settle it. Large books have been written upon the subject in a variety of languages,
and coming to a variety of conclusions. Great statesmen are there in our country, from Lord
Londonderry down to Mr. Vincent, each in his degree maintaining his different opinion. But
here, in the matter of Napoleon, is a simple fact: he founded a great, glorious, strong, potent
republic, able to cope with the best aristocracies in the world, and perhaps to beat them all;
he converts his republic into a monarchy, and surrounds his monarchy with what he calls aristocratic
institutions; and you know what becomes of him. The people estranged, the aristocracy faithless
(when did they ever pardon one who was not of themselves?)--the imperial fabric tumbles to
the ground. If it teaches nothing else, my dear, it teaches one a great point of policy--namely,
to stick by one's party.

While these thoughts (and sundry others relative to the horrible cold of the place, the intense
dulness of delay, the stupidity of leaving a warm bed and a breakfast in order to witness a
procession that is much better performed at a theatre)--while these thoughts were passing in
the mind, the church began to fill apace, and you saw that the hour of the ceremony was drawing
near.

Imprimis, came men with lighted staves, and set fire to at least ten thousand wax-candles that
were hanging in brilliant chandeliers in various parts of the chapel. Curtains were dropped
over the upper windows as these illuminations were effected, and the church was left only to
the funereal light of the spermaceti. To the right was the dome, round the cavity of which
sparkling lamps were set, that designed the shape of it brilliantly against the darkness. In
the midst, and where the altar used to stand, rose the catafalque. And why not? Who is God
here but Napoleon? and in him the sceptics have already ceased to believe; but the people does
still somewhat. He and Louis XIV. divide the worship of the place between them.

As for the catafalque, the best that I can say for it is that it is really a noble and imposing-looking
edifice, with tall pillars supporting a grand dome, with innumerable escutcheons, standards,
and allusions military and funereal. A great eagle of course tops the whole: tripods burning
spirits of wine stand round this kind of dead man's throne, and as we saw it (by peering over
the heads of our neighbors in the front rank), it looked, in the midst of the black concave,
and under the effect of half a thousand flashing cross-lights, properly grand and tall. The
effect of the whole chapel, however (to speak the jargon of the painting-room), was spoiled
by being CUT UP: there were too many objects for the eye to rest upon: the ten thousand wax-candles,
for instance, in their numberless twinkling chandeliers, the raw tranchant colors of the new
banners, wreaths, bees, N's, and other emblems dotting the place all over, and incessantly
puzzling, or rather BOTHERING the beholder.

High overhead, in a sort of mist, with the glare of their original colors worn down by dust
and time, hung long rows of dim ghostly-looking standards, captured in old days from the enemy.
They were, I thought, the best and most solemn part of the show.

To suppose that the people were bound to be solemn during the ceremony is to exact from them
something quite needless and unnatural. The very fact of a squeeze dissipates all solemnity.
One great crowd is always, as I imagine, pretty much like another. In the course of the last
few years I have seen three: that attending the coronation of our present sovereign, that which
went to see Courvoisier hanged, and this which witnessed the Napoleon ceremony. The people
so assembled for hours together are jocular rather than solemn, seeking to pass away the weary
time with the best amusements that will offer. There was, to be sure, in all the scenes above
alluded to, just one moment--one particular moment--when the universal people feels a shock
and is for that second serious.

But except for that second of time, I declare I saw no seriousness here beyond that of ennui.
The church began to fill with personages of all ranks and conditions. First, opposite our seats
came a company of fat grenadiers of the National Guard, who presently, at the word of command,
put their muskets down against benches and wainscots, until the arrival of the procession.
For seven hours these men formed the object of the most anxious solicitude of all the ladies
and gentlemen seated on our benches: they began to stamp their feet, for the cold was atrocious,
and we were frozen where we sat. Some of them fell to blowing their fingers; one executed a
kind of dance, such as one sees often here in cold weather--the individual jumps repeatedly
upon one leg, and kicks out the other violently, meanwhile his hands are flapping across his
chest. Some fellows opened their cartouche-boxes, and from them drew eatables of various kinds.
You can't think how anxious we were to know the qualities of the same. "Tiens, ce gros qui
mange une cuisse de volaille!"--"Il a du jambon, celui-la." "I should like some, too," growls
an Englishman, "for I hadn't a morsel of breakfast," and so on. This is the way, my dear, that
we see Napoleon buried.

Did you ever see a chicken escape from clown in a pantomime, and hop over into the pit, or
amongst the fiddlers? and have you not seen the shrieks of enthusiastic laughter that the wondrous
incident occasions? We had our chicken, of course: there never was a public crowd without one.
A poor unhappy woman in a greasy plaid cloak, with a battered rose-colored plush bonnet, was
seen taking her place among the stalls allotted to the grandees. "Voyez donc l'Anglaise," said
everybody, and it was too true. You could swear that the wretch was an Englishwoman: a bonnet
was never made or worn so in any other country. Half an hour's delightful amusement did this
lady give us all. She was whisked from seat to seat by the huissiers, and at every change of
place woke a peal of laughter. I was glad, however, at the end of the day to see the old pink
bonnet over a very comfortable seat, which somebody had not claimed and she had kept.

Are not these remarkable incidents? The next wonder we saw was the arrival of a set of tottering
old Invalids, who took their places under us with drawn sabres. Then came a superb drum-major,
a handsome smiling good-humored giant of a man, his breeches astonishingly embroidered with
silver lace. Him a dozen little drummer-boys followed--"the little darlings!" all the ladies
cried out in a breath: they were indeed pretty little fellows, and came and stood close under
us: the huge drum-major smiled over his little red-capped flock, and for many hours in the
most perfect contentment twiddled his moustaches and played with the tassels of his cane.

Now the company began to arrive thicker and thicker. A whole covey of Conseillers-d'Etat came
in, in blue coats, embroidered with blue silk, then came a crowd of lawyers in toques and caps,
among whom were sundry venerable Judges in scarlet, purple velvet, and ermine--a kind of Bajazet
costume. Look there! there is the Turkish Ambassador in his red cap, turning his solemn brown
face about and looking preternaturally wise. The Deputies walk in in a body. Guizot is not
there: he passed by just now in full ministerial costume. Presently little Thiers saunters
back: what a clear, broad sharp-eyed face the fellow has, with his gray hair cut down so demure!
A servant passes, pushing through the crowd a shabby wheel-chair. It has just brought old Moncey
the Governor of the Invalids, the honest old man who defended Paris so stoutly in 1814. He
has been very ill, and is worn down almost by infirmities: but in his illness he was perpetually
asking, "Doctor, shall I live till the 15th? Give me till then, and I die contented." One can't
help believing that the old man's wish is honest, however one may doubt the piety of another
illustrious Marshal, who once carried a candle before Charles X. in a procession, and has been
this morning to Neuilly to kneel and pray at the foot of Napoleon's coffin. He might have said
his prayers at home, to be sure; but don't let us ask too much: that kind of reserve is not
a Frenchman's characteristic.

Bang--bang! At about half-past two a dull sound of cannonading was heard without the church,
and signals took place between the Commandant of the Invalids, of the National Guards, and
the big drum-major. Looking to these troops (the fat Nationals were shuffling into line again)
the two Commandants tittered, as nearly as I could catch them, the following words--

"HARRUM HUMP!"

At once all the National bayonets were on the present, and the sabres of the old Invalids up.
The big drum-major looked round at the children, who began very slowly and solemnly on their
drums, Rub-dub-dub--rub-dub-dub--(count two between each)--rub-dub-dub, and a great procession
of priests came down from the altar.

First, there was a tall handsome cross-bearer, bearing a long gold cross, of which the front
was turned towards his grace the Archbishop. Then came a double row of about sixteen incense-boys,
dressed in white surplices: the first boy, about six years old, the last with whiskers and
of the height of a man. Then followed a regiment of priests in black tippets and white gowns:
they had black hoods, like the moon when she is at her third quarter, wherewith those who were
bald (many were, and fat too) covered themselves. All the reverend men held their heads meekly
down, and affected to be reading in their breviaries.

After the Priests came some Bishops of the neighboring districts, in purple, with crosses sparkling
on their episcopal bosoms.

Then came, after more priests, a set of men whom I have never seen before--a kind of ghostly
heralds, young and handsome men, some of them in stiff tabards of black and silver, their eyes
to the ground, their hands placed at right angles with their chests.

Then came two gentlemen bearing remarkable tall candlesticks, with candles of corresponding
size. One was burning brightly, but the wind (that chartered libertine) had blown out the other,
which nevertheless kept its place in the procession--I wondered to myself whether the reverend
gentleman who carried the extinguished candle, felt disgusted, humiliated, mortified--perfectly
conscious that the eyes of many thousands of people were bent upon that bit of refractory wax.
We all of us looked at it with intense interest.

Another cross-bearer, behind whom came a gentleman carrying an instrument like a bedroom candlestick.

His Grandeur Monseigneur Affre, Archbishop of Paris: he was in black and white, his eyes were
cast to the earth, his hands were together at right angles from his chest: on his hands were
black gloves, and on the black gloves sparkled the sacred episcopal--what do I say?--archiepiscopal
ring. On his head was the mitre. It is unlike the godly coronet that figures upon the coach-panels
of our own Right Reverend Bench. The Archbishop's mitre may be about a yard high: formed within
probably of consecrated pasteboard, it is without covered by a sort of watered silk of white
and silver. On the two peaks at the top of the mitre are two very little spangled tassels,
that frisk and twinkle about in a very agreeable manner.

