Then he beckoned to a noble who stood near him, and spoke to him for a moment. It chanced that
this was one of the very few whom I knew here. His name was Jago, and I had often seen him
at Glastonbury, for he was a friend of our ealdorman, Elfrida's father, holding somewhat the
same post in Norton as my friend in our town. Owen liked him well also, and he was certainly
no friend to Morgan and his party.

"Jago's wife will give your daughter all hospitality in his house," Gerent said, turning again
to Dunwal. "Have I your word as to keeping within bounds during my pleasure?"

"Ay, you have it," answered Dunwal curtly.

Then I slipped out of the door quietly, and went to that room where Owen and I waited on our
first coming here, and I sent a steward to tell him of my arrival. There is no need for me
to tell how he greeted me, or how I met him.

Then when those greetings were over I heard all that had been going on, and my loss had made
turmoil enough. My men had brought back the news, having missed me very shortly, but it was
long before they found traces of me. The first thing that they saw was my hawk, as I expected,
and after that the bodies of the slain. As I was not with them, they judged that I had escaped
in some way, but they lost the track of the feet in the woodlands, and so rode back to Owen
in all haste.

Then was a great gathering of men for the hunting of the outlaws, for it would take a small
army to search the wild hills and woodlands of the Quantocks to any effect. The whole countryside
turned out gladly, and the Watchet Norsemen helped also.

In the end, on the next day they penned the outlaws into some combe, and took most of them,
and then all was told by them, so far as they knew it. Gerent laid hands on four of the men
who had sworn the oath Evan told me of, that evening after some leading outlaw had given their
names, but Tregoz had escaped.

He had been one of the most active in the matter of the hunt, to all seeming, and had ridden
out with Owen and Jago and the rest. Then he took advantage of some turn in the hills, when
men began to scatter, and was no more seen. Presently it was plain enough why this was, when
those who were taken were made to speak. Yet it seemed that he was not so far off, for already
an attack had been made on Owen as he rode beyond the village, though it was no very dangerous
one. Now it was to be hoped that the danger from him was past, for his brother had been taken
the moment he rode into the gate, and he would suffer if more harm was done.

Then I asked if our king had been told of all this, and I learnt that he had heard at once,
and had written back to Owen to say that he would pay any ransom that might be asked for me
if I yet lived, as was hoped. The outlaws had told of Evan's plan, but it was not known if
I had been taken out of the country yet.

"All is well that ends well," Owen said; "but I asked Ina not to say aught of the matter yet
for a while. There is one at least in Glastonbury who might be sorely terrified for you."

He laughed at my red face, for I knew that he meant Elfrida. It was in my mind, however, that
I wished she had heard, for then, perhaps, she would have been sorry that she had not been
kinder to me--unless, indeed, she was glad that I was out of the way, in all truth.

Then there was my own long tale to be told, and of course I told Owen all. It was good to hear
him say that he himself could have done nought but free Evan.

Thereafter we sought Thorgils, who was happy in the guardroom, and had seemingly been telling
my tale there, for the men stared at me somewhat. I do not suppose that it lost in the telling.

Owen thanked him for his help, and took him to see Gerent; which saved me words, for the Norseman
must needs tell how Evan had brought me on board his ship, and so we even let him say all that
there was to be said.

After that Gerent loaded him with presents, and so let him go well pleased.

I went out to his horse with him, and saw him start. His last word as he parted from me was
that if I needed a good axeman at my back at any time I was to send for him, and so he went
seaward, singing to himself, with the men who had brought Dunwal hither behind him.

After that there was more to say of Howel and his court. It seemed that Gerent and Owen liked
him well, and I wondered that Owen had not sought him when the trouble fell on him. I think
he would not go to Dyfed as a disgraced man, for I know he could not clear himself at the time.

Now at supper, presently, there was Dunwal, looking anxious, as I thought, but trying not to
shew it. His daughter Mara was there also, and as it happened she sat next to me. I suppose
the seneschal set her there as we had crossed from Dyfed together, unless she had asked it,
or gone to that seat without asking. She was very pleasant, talking of the troubles of the
voyage, and so went on to speak sadly enough of the greater trouble that had waited her.

"I am glad the king has kept us, however," she said. "I can be content with the court rather
than with our wild Dartmoor, as you may guess. But all these things are too hard for me, and
how any man can plot against so wonderful looking a prince as Owen passes me. I cannot but
think that there is some mistake, and that my uncle has no hand in the affair. That will be
proved ere long, I do believe."

I answered that indeed I hoped that it would prove so, and then asked for Morfed, the priest
who had crossed with us, as I did not see him among the other clergy at the table. She told
me that he had left them, on foot, at the gate of Watchet, making his way westward, as she
believed. He had only joined their party for easier travelling in Dyfed.

Then she must needs ask me questions about Thorgils' song, and specially of Elfrida. I had
no mind to tell her much, but it is hard to refuse to answer a lady who speaks in all friendly
wise and pleasantly, so that I had to tell her much the same that I told Nona the princess,
and began to wonder if every lady who had the chance would be as curious to know all about
what story there was. And that was a true foreboding of mine, for so it was, until I grew used
to it. But all this minded me of Nona and her warning, and I was half sorry that the priest
had not come here, to be taken care of with Dunwal.

After that night we saw little of these two. Mara went to the house of Jago, and Dunwal kept
to himself about the palace boundaries within the old ramparts, and seemed to shun notice.
As for me, word went to Ina that all was well, and he sent a letter back to say that it would
please him to know that I was with Owen for a time yet. So I bided with him, and for a time
all went well, for we heard nought of Tregoz in any way, while another of his friends was taken
and imprisoned in some western fortress of Gerent's. Nor were there any more attacks made on
Owen, so that after a little while we went about, hunting and hawking, in all freedom, for
danger seemed to have passed with the taking of Dunwal as hostage.

Then one day a guard from the gate brought me a folded paper, on which my name was written
in a fair hand, saying that it had been left for me by a swineherd from the hill, who said
that it was from some mass priest whom I knew. The guard had let the man go away, deeming that,
of course, there was no need to keep him. Nor had they asked who the priest might be, as it
was said that I knew him.

I took the letter idly and went to my stables with it in my hand, and opened and read it as
I walked.

"To Oswald, son of Owen.--It is not good to sleep in the moonlight."

That was all it said, and there was no name at the end of it. I thought it foolish enough,
for every one knows that the cold white light of the moon is held to be harmful for sleepers
in the open air. But I was not in the way of sleeping out in this early season with its cold,
though, of course, it was always possible that one might be belated on the hills and have to
make a night in the heather of it when hunting on Exmoor or the Brendons. There was not much
moon left now, either.

So I showed the note to Owen presently, and he puzzled over it, seeing that it could not have
been sent for nothing. At last we both thought that whoever wrote it, or had it written, knew
that some attack would be made on us with the next moon, when it would be likely that we might
be riding homeward by its light with no care against foes. That might well be called "sleeping
in the moonlight" as things were; and at all events we were warned in time. The trouble to
me was that it seemed to say that danger was not all past.

However, when there was no moon at all I forgot the letter for the time, no more trouble cropping
up, and but for a chance word I think that it had not come into my mind again until we were
out in the moonlight at some time. As we sat at table one evening when the moon was almost
at the full again, some one spoke of moonstruck men, and that minded me, and set me thinking.
He said that once he himself had had a sore pain in the face by reason of the moonlight falling
on it when he was asleep, and another told somewhat the same, until the talk drifted away to
other things and they forgot it. But now I remembered how that at our first coming here I had
waked in the early hours and seen a patch of moonlight from a high southern window on the outer
wall of the palace passing across Owen's breast as he slept. Then I was on the floor across
the door, but now I slept in the same place that Owen had that night, while he was on the couch
across the room and under the window. It was possible, therefore, that the light did fall on
my face, but I was pretty sure that if so it would have waked me.

At all events, if the letter had aught to do with that, it was a cumbrous way of letting me
know that my bed was in a bad place for quiet sleep. The only thing that seemed likely thus
was that the good priest who wrote had left the palace before he had remembered to tell me
how he had fared in that room once, and so sent back word. There were many priests backward
and forward here, as at Glastonbury with Ina. Then it seemed plain that this was the meaning
of the whole thing, and so I would hang a cloak over the window by and by.

And, of course, having settled the question in my own mind, I forgot to do that, and was like
to have paid dearly for forgetting.

Two nights afterward, when the moon was at the full, I woke from sleep suddenly with the surety
that I heard my name called softly. I was wide awake in a moment, and found the room bright
with moonlight that did indeed lie in a broad square right across my chest on the furs that
covered me. I glanced across to Owen, but he was asleep, as there was full light enough to
see, and then I wondered why I seemed to have heard that call. In a few moments I knew that,
and also that the voice I heard was the one that had come to me in sore danger before.

Idly and almost sleeping again I watched the light, to see if indeed it was going to cross
my face, and then a sudden shadow flitted across it, and with a hiss and flick of feathers
a long arrow fled through the window and stuck in the plaster of the wall not an inch above
my chest, furrowing the fur of the white bearskin over me, so close was it.

In a moment I was on the floor, with a call to Owen, and it was well that I had the sense to
swing myself clear from the light and leap from the head of the bed, for even as my feet touched
the floor a second arrow came and struck fairly in the very place where I had been, and stood
quivering in the bedding.

Then was a yell from outside, and before Owen could stay me I looked through the window, recklessly
enough maybe, but with a feeling that no more arrows would come now that the archer was disturbed.
It needed more than a careless aim to shoot so well into that narrow slit. Across the window
I could see the black line of the earthworks against the light some fifty paces from the wall
of the palace, with no building between them on this side at all; and on the rampart struggled
two figures, wrestling fiercely in silence. One was a man whose armour sparkled and gleamed
under the moon, and the other seemed to be unarmed, unless, indeed, that was a broad knife
he had in his hand. Then Owen pulled me aside.

"The sentry has him," he said, after a hurried glance. "Let us out into the light, for there
may be more on hand yet."

Now I hurried on my arms, but another look showed me nothing but the bare top of the rampart.
No sign of the men remained. I could hear voices and the sounds of men running in the quiet,
and I thought these came from the guard, who were hurrying up from the gate.

"The men have rolled into the ditch," I said. "I can see nothing now."

Then we ran out, bidding the captain of the guard to stand to arms as we passed through the
great door of the palace, and so we went round to the place whence the arrows had come. A score
of men from the gate were already clustered there on the earthworks, talking fast as Welshmen
will, but heedful to challenge us as we came. I saw that they had somewhat on the ground in
the midst of them.

"Here is a strange affair, my Prince," one of them said, as he held out his hand to help Owen
up the earthworks.

The group stood aside for us to look on what they had found, and that was a man, fully armed
in the Welsh way of Gerent's guards, but slain by the well-aimed blow of a strong seax that
was yet left where it had been driven home above the corselet. There was a war bow and two
more arrows lying at the foot of the rampart, as if they had been wrested from the hand of
the archer and flung there. The men had not seen these, but I looked for them at once when
I saw that there was no bow on the slain man.

"Who is this?" Owen said gravely, and without looking closely as yet.

"It is Tregoz of the Dart, whom the king seeks," one or two of the men said at once.

I had known that it must be he in my own mind before the name was spoken. There fell a silence
on the rest as the name was told, and all looked at my foster father. There was plainly some
fault in the watching of the rampart that had let the traitor find his way here at all.

"Which of you was it who slew him?" asked Owen.

"None of us, Lord. We cannot tell who it may have been. Even the sentry who keeps this beat
is gone."

"Doubtless it was he who slew him, and is himself wounded in the fosse. Look for him straightway."

There they hunted, but the man was not to be found. Nor was it his weapon that had ended Tregoz.

Then Owen said in a voice that had grown very stern: "Who was the sentry who should have been
here?"

The men looked at one another, and the chief of them answered at last that the man was from
Dartmoor, one of such a name. And then one looked more closely at the arms Tregoz wore, and
cried out that they were the very arms of the missing sentry, or so like them that one must
wait for daylight to say for certain that they were not they.

It was plain enough then. In such arms Tregoz could well walk through the village itself unnoticed,
as one of the palace guards would be, and so when the time came he would climb from some hiding
in the fosse and take the place of his countryman on the rampart, and the watchful captain
would see but a sentry there and deem that all was well.

Yet this did not tell us who was the one who had wrestled with and slain him, and Owen told
what had been done, while I went and brought the bow and arrows from the foot of the rampart,
in hopes that they might tell us by mark or make if more than Tregoz and the sentry were in
this business. Then I looked at my window, and, though narrow, it was as fair a mark in the
moonlight as one would need. Without letting my shadow fall on the sleeper, it was possible
to see my couch and the white furs on it, though it would be needful to raise the arm across
the moonlight in the act of shooting. It was all well planned, but it needed a first-rate bowman.

"It was surely Tregoz who shot," one of the men said. "The sentry who was here was a bungler
with a bow. None whom we know but Tregoz could have made sure of that mark, bright as the night
is. Well it was, Lord, that you were not sleeping in your wonted place."

Owen glanced at me to warn me to say nothing, and bade the men take the body to the guardroom.
They were already cursing the sentry who had brought shame on their ranks by leaguing himself
with a traitor, and it was plain that there was no need to bid them lay hands on him if they
could. That was a matter that concerned their own honour.

So we left the guarding of the place in their hands, and they doubled the watches from that
time forward. Then we went and spoke with the captain of the guard, who yet kept his post at
the doors, as none had called him.

"Maybe I am to blame," he said, when he heard all. "I should not have left a Dartmoor man from
the country whence Tregoz came to keep watch there. I knew that he was thence, and thought
no harm."

"There is no blame to you," Owen said. "It is not possible to look for such treachery among
our own men."

Then we went into our room to show the captain what had been done. And thence the two arrows
had already been taken. The hole in the plaster where the first struck was yet there, and the
slit made by the second in the tough hide of the bear was to be seen when I turned over the
fur, but who had taken them we could not tell. Only, it was plain that here in the palace some
one was in the plot and had taken away what might be proof of who the archer had been, not
knowing, as I suppose, that the attempt had failed so utterly. For an arrow will often prove
a good witness, as men will use only some special pattern that they are sure of, and will often
mark them that they may claim them and their own game in the woodlands if they are found in
some stricken beast that has got away for a time. It was more than likely that Tregoz would
have been careful to use only such arrows as he knew well in a matter needing such close shooting
as this. Indeed, we afterwards found men who knew the two shafts from the rampart as those
of the Cornishman, without doubt.

This I did not like at all, for the going of these arrows brought the danger to our very door,
as it were. Nor did the captain, for he himself kept watch over us for the rest of that night,
and afterwards there was always a sentry in the passage that led to our room.

We were silent as we lay down again, and sleep was long in coming. I puzzled over all this,
for beside the taking of the arrows there was the question of who the slayer of Tregoz might
be, and who had written the letter that should have warned us.

In all truth, it was not good to sleep in the moonlight!

Somewhat of the same kind Owen was thinking, for of a sudden he said to me: "Those arrows were
meant for me, Oswald. Did you note what the man said about my not sleeping in my wonted place?"

"Ay, but I did not know that you had slept on this side. Since I came back, at least, you have
not done so."

Owen smiled.

"No, I have not," he said; "but in the old days that was always my place, and you will mind
that there I slept on the night we first were here together. That was of old habit, and I only
shifted to this side when you came back, because I knew that you would like the first light
to wake you. Every sentry who crosses the window on the rampart can see in here if it is light
within, but he could not tell that we had changed places, for the face of the sleeper is hidden."

Then he laughed a little, and added:

"In the old days when I was in charge of the palace this face of the ramparts was always the
best watched, because the men knew that if I waked and did not see the shadow of the sentry
pass and repass as often as it should, he was certain to hear of it in the morning. Tregoz
would know that old jest. I suppose Dunwal may have had some hand in taking the arrows hence."

"It is likely enough," I answered. "He will have to pay for his brother's deed tomorrow, in
all likelihood, also. But who wrote the letter, and who slew Tregoz?"

Owen thought for a little while.

"Mara, Dunwal's daughter, is the most likely person to have written," he said. "It would be
like a woman to do so, and she seems at least no enemy. Maybe the man was the sentry, after
all, and fled because he had given up his arms, and so was sharer in the deed that he repented
of. Or he may have been some friend of ours, or foe of the Cornishman, who would not wait for
the rough handling of the guard when they found him there where he should not be. No doubt
we shall hear of him soon or late."

But we did not. There was no trace of him, or of the writer of the letter. One may imagine
the fury of Gerent when he heard all this in the morning, but even his wrath could not make
Dunwal speak of aught that he might know. But for the pleading of Owen, the old king would
have hung him then and there, and all that my foster father could gain for him was his life.
Into the terrible old Roman dungeon, pit-like, with only a round hole in the stone covering
of it through which a prisoner was lowered, he was thrown, and there he bided all the time
I was at Norton.

By all right the lands of these two fell again into the hands of the king, and he would give
them to Owen.

"Take them," he said, when Owen would not do so at first: "they owe you amends. If you do not
want them yourself, wait until you sit in my seat, and then give them to Oswald, that he may
have good reason for leaving Ina for you."

So Owen held them for me, as it were, and was content. Some day they might be mine, if not
in the days of Ina, whom we loved.

But Gerent either forgot or cared not to think of Mara, Dunwal's daughter, and she bided in
the best house in the town, with Jago's wife, none hindering her in anything. There was no
more sign of trouble now that Tregoz and his brother were out of the way.

CHAPTER X. HOW THE EASTDEAN MANORS AND SOMEWHAT MORE PASSED FROM OSWALD TO ERPWALD.

I bided at Norton with Owen until the Lententide drew near, and then I must needs go back to
my place with Ina. Maybe I should have gone before this, seeing that all was safe now, but
our king had been on progress about the country, to Chippenham, and so to Reading and thence
to London, and but half his guard was with him, so that I was not needed. Now he was back at
Glastonbury, and I must join him there and go back to royal Winchester with him for the Easter
feast.

Owen and I also had been far westward at one time or another, in this space, though there is
little worth telling beyond that we went even to the lands of Tregoz that had passed to him,
and so took possession of them. I could not see that any of the folk on those lands, whether
free or thrall, seemed other than glad that Owen was their lord now. It was said that Tregoz
was little loved. We left a new steward in the great half-stone and half-timber house, with
house-carles enough to see that none harmed either him or the place, and so came back to Norton.

Now, one may say that all this time, seeing that Glastonbury was but so short a distance from
Norton, I was a laggard lover not to have ridden over to see Elfrida, and maybe it would be
of little use for me to deny it. However, I would have it remembered that there was always
fear for Owen in my mind if I was apart from him at the first, and then there was this westward
journey, and the hunting in new places, and many other things, so that the time slipped by
all too quickly. Also, when it is easy to go to a place one is apt to say that tomorrow will
do, and, as every one knows, tomorrow never comes. Nor had we said much of that damsel; if
Owen had not altogether forgotten my oath, he never spoke of it, nor did I care to remind him.
Nevertheless, whenever we spoke of Howel and his daughter, Owen's godchild, I minded that the
princess had bidden me see how Elfrida greeted me when I came back, and it was in my mind that
she would be no less glad to see me after a long absence.

That I should find out very shortly, but the thought troubled me little. I will say that the
parting from Owen was all that was of consequence to me, for it was hard enough. I could not
tell when we should meet again, for I must go east and he west now, and presently all Devon,
and maybe Cornwall, would lie between us, even when our court was at Glastonbury. It would
be hard to see him at all in the coming days, for not often was Gerent here. However, partings
must needs be, and we made the least of it, and so at last we rode together to the old bridge
that crosses the Parrett, and there bade our last farewells, and went our ways, not looking back.

It was a lonesome ride onward for me after all these days with him, and I had not a word for
my house-carles, who had ridden from Glastonbury hither to meet me, for the first few miles.
Then I bethought myself, and drew rein a little and let them come up with me, for I had ridden
alone at their head for a while, and so heard all the news of the court and whatever talk was
going about the place, and my mind left Norton and went on, as it were, before me to Glastonbury
and all that I should see there.

There was a warm welcome waiting for me from the many friends, and best of all from the king
himself. With him I sat long in his chamber telling of my doings and of Owen, and hearing also
of what had been going on. At the last, when I was about to leave his presence, he said:

"There is one matter that we must speak of tomorrow, for it is weighty and needs thought. Let
it bide now, for it is nought unhappy, and so come to me at noon and we will speak thereof.
Now your friends will seek you, and I will not say more."

I left him then with a little wonder as to what this business might be, but thought little
of it, as it would very likely be a matter of taking some men on some errand or the like house-carle
work, and then I bethought me that I would even go and see how fared Elfrida. It was not unpleasant
to think of taking her by surprise, for I did not suppose that she had heard of my return yet.
At all events, she would have no chance of making up some stiff greeting for me. Wherefore
I went down the street with my head in the air, making up my mind how I would greet her, and
maybe I thought of a dozen ways before I reached the ealdorman's door.

His welcome was hearty enough at all events, but before I could make up my mind to ask for
Elfrida, who was not to be seen at first, though I had counted on finding her at her wheel
in the great hall of the house, as was her wont in the afternoon, he had wasted a long hour
in hearing all that he could of my affairs, as may be supposed. There had been some strange
rumours flying about since I was lost. I began to wish that I had brought Thorgils home with
me, for it was plain that I should have to go over all this too often, and he cared not at
all how many times he told the same tale.

At last I was able to find a chance of asking how fared the lady Elfrida, and at that the ealdorman
laughed.

"What, has not all this put that foolishness out of your head?" he said.

"No, it has not," I answered pretty shortly.

But all the same, the old thought that I had remembered her less than I would have it known
did flash across me for a moment.

"Well, I will send for her, and she will tell you for herself how she fares."

He sent, and then in about half an hour she came, just as I was thinking I would wait no longer.
And if she had been stiff with me in the orchard it was even more so now, and I did not seem
to get on with her at all. She said, indeed, that she was glad to see me back, but in no way
could I think that she looked more so than any one else I had met.

So we talked a little, and then all of a sudden her father said:

"Ho!--Here comes that South Saxon again."

Then at once a blush crept slowly over her fair face, and she tried not to look toward the
great door in vain, though no one came in, and presently she was gone with but a few words
to me. I did not like this at all, but the ealdorman laughed at her and then at me, the more
that he saw that I was put out.

"Never mind, Oswald," he said. "That vow of yours pledged you to no more than duty to any fair
lady."

"Maybe it is just as well that it did not," I answered, trying to laugh also.

"Ay, that is right. You were bound to say somewhat, and you did it well. But it has not pleased
the girl, nevertheless."

"I did think, at least, she would have been more glad to see me."

"Trouble yourself not at all about the ways of damsels for the next five years, or maybe ten,
Oswald, my friend," said the ealdorman. "So will you have an easier life, and maybe a longer one."

Discontented enough I went away, and that same discontent lasted for a full half-hour. At the
end of that time I found myself laughing at the antics of two boys who were sporting on a flooded
meadow in a great brew tub, while their mother threatened them with a stick from the bank.
It was my thought that a cake would have fetched them back sooner than the stick, but maybe
she knew best. It was like a hen with ducklings.

Then I grew tired of loitering outside the town and nursing my wounded pride, and when it began
to rain I forgot it, and went back to the palace and talked about the British warriors with
Nunna and some of the other young thanes until supper time.

Next morning I waited on the king as he had bidden me, finding him in his chamber with a pile
of great parchments and the like before him. He bade me be seated, and I sat in the window
seat opposite him.

"It is no light matter that I have to speak of," he said, "but I will get to the point straightway.
What do you remember of your old home, Eastdean?"

Now the thoughts of old days there that had sprung afresh in my mind in the parting with Owen,
made me ready to answer that at once.

"Little, my King. I was but ten years old when we fled," I answered therefore.

"That is likely. But would you go back there? As the Thane of Eastdean, I mean; for I know
that you would wish to see the place where your father lies."

I could not answer him this at once, for it was indeed a matter that needed thought. So I said,
and he turned to his writings with a nod and left me to myself.

In all these thoughts of mine, pleasant as they were with some memories, it had never come
to me to wish that the lands were mine again. Save for that one thing of which Ina spoke, and
for the pleasantness of seeing old scenes again, I had never cared to go back. Owen had not
spoken of the lands that should have been mine for years, and even as he talked with me and
Gerent he had not seemed to remember that old loss at all. Gerent had done so, saying that
I should be back there, but even that did not stir me now. I was of the court, and here I had
my place, and all my life was knit with the ways of the atheling guard and the ordering of
the house-carles under Owen. If I were to turn from all this to become a forest thane it would
be banishment.

And then I thought of Owen, and how this would take me yet farther from him. I would sooner,
if I must be sent from Ina, go to him and find what home I might on the lands of Tregoz in
wild Dartmoor. And then the thought of leaving Ina, who had cared for me since I was a child,
was almost as terrible.

"I would not leave you, my King," I said at last.

Ina looked up at me with a smile, but was silent, stroking his beard as was his way when thinking,
looking past me out of the narrow window to the great Tor that towered beyond the new abbey
buildings.

"Think!" he said at last--"partings must come, and lands are not to be had lightly. Erpwald's
brother, who held Eastdean, is dead."

"I need no lands," I answered. "The ways of a captain of your house-carles are good to me,
and I need no more. If I took those lands from your hand, my King, needs must that I gave up
all the life with you. Sooner would I let the land go and bide with you. Yet if I must needs
take them, be it as you will."

"It is a great thing that you speak so lightly of giving up," he answered gravely; "Erpwald,
the heathen, was willing to risk his life for those lands, and he held them dear. And a captain
of the king's house-carles will always look to be rewarded for service with lands. In time
you will seek the same."

"That time has not yet come to me, King Ina."

"Eastdean lies in my hand here," he said, taking up a parchment with a great seal on it. "I
may give it to whom I will, but you are the lawful heir who should hold it from me. If it goes
not to you, it may be that one whom you would not shall have it."

Then I said, not seeing at all what the king would have me do, but thinking that he deemed
me foolish for not taking the lands straightway:

"Let me bide with you even yet for a while. When the time comes that I must leave you I must
go to Owen, and neither he nor I care for aught but to be here. He must leave you because of
duty, and if this is indeed choice with me, let me choose to stay. It is nought to me who holds
the lands, save only that it might be one who will tend the grave of my father."

Then said Ina, looking into my face and smiling, as if well pleased:

"The choice is free, my Thane, and I should be wrong if I did not say that I am glad to hear
you choose thus. I have missed you in these days, and I have work here for you yet. It was
in my mind that thus you would choose, and I am glad. Let it be so. I need one to take the
place of Owen, as second in command of the household, as one may say, and that you must do
for me henceforward.

"Nay," he said quickly, raising his hand as I tried to find some words of thanks for this honour;
"you know the ways of Owen, and men know you, and it will be as if there had been no change,
and that will mean that we shall have no grumbling in the palace, and the right men will be
sent to do what they are best fitted for--and all that, so that there will be quiet about the
court as ever. It is a matter off my mind, let me tell you, and no thanks are needed."

So he laughed and let me kiss his hand, patting me on the shoulder as I rose, and then bade
me sit down again. He had yet more to say.

"With Erpwald who is dead, men would hold that you had a blood feud. That is done with; but
his son yet lives. I do not think it is your way, or Owen's, to hold that a feud must be carried
on in the old heathen way of our forefathers."

"Most truly not," I said. "What ill has a son of Erpwald done to me or mine?"

"None! Nay, rather has he done well, for I know that he has honoured the grave of your father,
and even now is ready to do what he can to make amends for the old wrong. He brought me this."

He took up the parchment that he had shewn me before. It was a grant of the manors of Eastdean
to Erpwald, gained by those means of utmost craft whereby the king thought that indeed the
last of our line had perished by other hands than those of the heathen thane.

"Honest and straightforward and Christian-like is this young Erpwald," the king said. "Well
brought up by his Christian mother, if not very ready or brilliant in his ways. Now he has
learned how his father came into the lands, and though he might well have held them after his
uncle on this grant, he has come hither to set the matter in my hands. 'It is not fair,' quoth
he, 'that I should hold them if one is left of the line of Ella. I should not sleep easily
in my bed. Nevertheless, I will buy them if so be that one is left to sell them to me.' So
he sighed, for the place is his home."

"All these years it has been no trouble to me that Erpwald's brother has held the place, my
King. It will be no trouble to think that a better Erpwald holds them yet."

"I do not think that he will be happy unless he deems that he has paid some price--some weregild
{ii}, as one may say; for slow minds as his hang closely to their thoughts when they are formed.
See, Oswald, I have thought of all this, and the young man has been here for a fortnight. I
brought him here from Winchester, where he joined me. Let me tell you what I think."

"The matter is in your hands altogether, my King."

"As you have set it there," he said, smiling gently. "Now all seems plain to me, and I will
say that this is even what I thought you would wish to do. How shall it be if we bid Erpwald,
for the deed of his father, to build a church in Eastdean and there to keep a priest, that
all men shall know how that the martyr is honoured, and the land be the better for his death?"

Nought better than this could be, as I thought, and I told the king so.

"Why, then," he said, "that is well. I shall have pleased both parties, as I hope. I know you
will meet him in all friendliness."

Then he let me go, and it was with a light heart that I parted from him. Now I knew that my
father's grave and memory would be held in more than common honour, and I was content.

Men would miss Owen sorely here, but, save for that, I had so often acted for him in these
last two years that my being altogether in his place made little difference to any one, or
even to myself in a few days. That last was as well for myself, as it seems to me, for I was
not over proud, as I might have been had the post been new to me. As it was, I do not think
that there was any jealousy over it, or at least I never found it out. My friends rejoiced
openly, and if any one wondered that the king should so trust a man of my age, the answer that
I had saved Ina's life was enough to satisfy all.

My men drank my health in their quarters that night, and after I got over the little strangeness
of sitting on the high place next to Nunna, things went on, save for the want of Owen about
the court, even as when he was the marshal and I but his squire, as it were.

I saw young Erpwald for the first time soon after the king had spoken of him to me, and I liked
the look of him well enough. He was some few years older than I, square and strong, with a
round red face and light hair, pleasant in smile, if not over wise looking. One would say that
he might be a good friend, but one could hardly think of him as willingly the enemy of any
man. Some one made me known to him as the son of Owen, as was usual, and as such would I be
known to him for a while; but for some time I saw little of him, not caring to seek his company,
as indeed there was no reason for me to do so.

The next thing that I heard of him was that he had made a great friend of the ealdorman since
he came here, being often at his house. It was not so long before I met him there, though my
pride, which would not let me risk another rebuff, kept me away for some days. I had an uneasy
feeling that I should fare no better, and I could find good reason enough to justify the thought
in some ways, as any one may see from what had happened before.

Maybe that was a token that my first feelings were cooling off, and I do not think that there
is much wonder if they were. It would have been strange, and not altogether complimentary to
the fair damsel if, after the deed at the feast and the vow that I had to make, I had not thought
myself desperately in love with her at last, after a good many years of friendship. But now
there had befallen the long days of peril and anxiety which had set her in the background altogether,
and I had had time to come to more sober thoughts, as it were. Men have said that I aged more
in that short time than in the next ten years of my life, and it is likely. Nevertheless, it
needed but a word or two of kindness to bring me to Elfrida's feet once for all, and but a
little more coldness to send me from her altogether.

So at last I went to her home to find out how I should fare, thinking less of the matter than
last time, and there she sat in the hall, chatting merrily with Erpwald. That pleasantness
stopped when I came in, and after the first needful greetings Elfrida froze again, and Erpwald
fell silent, as if I was by no means welcome. I could see that I was the third who spoils company.
However, the ealdorman came in directly, and I talked to him, and as we paid no heed to those
two they took up their talk once more, and presently their words waxed low. Whereon the ealdorman
glanced at them with a sly grin and wink to me, and I understood.

So I went away, for that was enough. Of course, I was very angry, by reason of the scratch
to my pride; for it does hurt to think that one is not wanted, and for a while I brooded over
it just as I had done the other day. Then it came to me that at least I had no reason to be
angry with Erpwald, who could know little or anything about me, being a newcomer, and it was
not his fault if the girl made a tool of him to scare me away, and after that I found my senses
again, rather sooner than before, perhaps. It was plain that the ealdorman took it for granted
that I had no feeling now in that direction, and so others would do the same, which was comforting.
So I supposed that there was no more to be said on the subject by any one, unless Elfrida chose
to have the matter out, and set things on the old footing of frank friendliness again.

There I found that I was mistaken at once. Some one was coming down the lane after me quickly,
and then calling my name. I turned, and there was Erpwald, with a very red face, trying to
overtake me, and I waited for him.

"A word with you, Thane," he said, out of breath.

"As many as you will. What is it?"

"Wait until I get my breath," he said. "One would think that you were in a desperate hurry,
by the pace you go. Plague on all such fast walkers!"

That made me laugh, and he smiled across his broad face in return.

"It is all very well to grin," he said, straightening his face suddenly to a blankness; "but
what I have to say concerns a mighty serious matter."

"Well, then, get it done with," I answered, trying not to smile yet more.

"I don't rightly know how to begin," he said in a hesitating kind of way. "Words are as hard
to manage as a drove of forest swine, and I am a bad hand at talking. Can you not tell what
I have to say?"

"Not in the least," I answered.

It flashed across me that he might have found out who I was, however, and wanted to speak of
the old trouble.

"Well," he said at last, growing yet redder, "the Lady Elfrida is angry that her name has been
coupled with yours pretty much lately."

He stopped with a long breath, and I knew what he was driving at.

"She has told me as much herself already," I said solemnly.

He heaved a sigh of relief.

"But she did not tell me that," he said in a puzzled sort of way. "Well, it must not go on,
or--or else, that is, I shall have to see that it does not."

"The worst of it is that I cannot help it," said I. "Did the lady ask you to speak to me of
the matter?"

"Why, no; she did not. Only, I thought that some one must. Of course, I mean that I will fight
you if it goes on."

"Of course," I said. "But I can in no wise stop it. Do you know how it began?"

"Not altogether. How was it?"

"Really, that you had better ask some one else," I said, keeping a grave face. "I think that
it would have been fairer to me to have done so first. But if there was any real blame to me,
do you think that the ealdorman would have been glad to see me just now? I think that it was
plain that he was so."

"I am an owl," Erpwald said. "Of course, he would not have been. But did you come to see the
ealdorman, or the lady?"

"Why, both of them, of course. I have known them for years."

He looked relieved when he heard that, and I thought that he must be badly smitten already.

"Well, I will go and ask the ealdorman all about it," he said. "Where shall I find you in an
hour's time?"

"In my quarters," I answered; "but, of course, if you want to fight me you will have to send
a friend to talk to me."

"I will send the ealdorman himself."

"Best not, for he is the man who is charged with the stopping of these affairs if he hears
of them. Any atheling you meet will help you in such a matter. It is an honour to be asked
to do so. But don't ever ask me to be your second if you have another affair, for I also have
to hinder these meetings if I can."

"Is there any one else I must not ask?" he said in a bewildered way.

"Best not ask the abbot," I said, and I could not help smiling.

"Now you are laughing at me, and that is too bad. How am I to know your court ways?"

"Well, you will not have to fight me unless you really want to pick a quarrel. So it does not
matter. Get to the bottom of the question, and then come and talk it over, and we will see
what is to be done."

He nodded and left me, and I had a good chuckle over the whole business. It was not likely
that Elfrida had set him on me, in the least; but I suppose he had heard some jest of her father's,
who was one of those who will work anything that pleases them to the last.

So I went my way, and saw to one or two things, and sat me down in the room off the hall that
had been Owen's, and presently Erpwald came in, and I saw that he was in trouble.

"Well," I said, "how goes the quarrel?"

"I am a fool," he replied promptly. "The lady should be proud of the affair, and the more it
is talked of the better she should like it. You are right in saying that it cannot be stopped.
Why, there is a gleeman down the street this minute singing the deeds of Oswald and Elfrida.
As for the vow you made, the ealdorman says that it could not have been better done. Forgive
me for troubling you about it at all."

He held out his broad hand, and for a moment I hesitated about taking it. He bore his father's
name, but in a flash it came to me that I was wrong. We were both children when the ill deed
was wrought, and I was no heathen to hold a blood feud against all the family of the wrongdoer.
He did not even know that one of us lived, and, as the king had told me, I knew that he was
prepared to make amends.

So I took his hand frankly, and he had not noticed the moment's slowness or, if he did, took
it for the passing of vexation from my mind.

"You will laugh at me again," he said, "but now I am in hot water in all sooth. The lady will
not speak to me at all."

I did laugh. I sat down on the edge of the table and tried to stop it, but his red face was
so rueful that I could not, and at last he had to smile also.

"Why, what have you done?" I asked. "Now it is my turn to know reasons why. Here is a new offence
to be seen into."

"I only told her that I had spoken to you on the subject, and was going to talk to the ealdorman,
her father, if she would not save me the trouble by telling me herself all about it."

"And then?"

"She got up and went away, tossing her head, without a word. So I had a talk with the ealdorman,
and learnt all; but after that I tried to see her, and that black-haired Welsh maiden of hers
told me that she would not see me."

"It seems to me that you have had a bad day," I said. "But what does it matter? You have done
what seemed right, and if it is taken in the wrong way you cannot help it."

"It does matter," he said. "If she is wroth with me, I don't mind telling you that I am fit
to hang myself. Could you not set things right for me, somehow? You are an old friend."

"No, hardly; for I am not in favour there just now."

"Well, I shall go and try to get round the Welsh girl to speak for me."

Now, that was a servant I had never heard of, and I thought I knew all the household. So I
could not tell him if that would be of use, and he left me in some sort of desperation to try
what he could. He was very much in love.

Next day he came back beaming. Somehow the Welshwoman had managed things for him, and all was
well again. I had my own thought that Elfrida was by no means unwilling to meet him halfway,
but I did not say so. I think I had fairly got over my feelings by this time, but I must say
that I felt a sort of half jealousy about it. But the more I came to look on the South Saxon's
round face, and to think of him as Elfrida's favoured lover, the less I felt it. It became
a jest to watch the going of the affair, and I was not the only one who found it so in a very
short time.

Erpwald made no secret of his devotion. He minded me of a great faithful stupid dog, whose
trust was boundless and whose love was worth having. One could lead him anywhere, but he was
true Sussex--he would not be driven an inch.

So Elfrida had a hopeless slave at her beck and call, and by and by I was on the old footing,
and we used to make much of my vow of service to her.

"I would that I had made that vow," Erpwald said once.

"It is not too late now," answered the ealdorman, with his great laugh; "but I do not think
it is needed."

After me went Erpwald when he was not at the ealdorman's, and Ina told me that he was glad
to see that I harboured no thought of revenge.

"Presently you will want to go to Eastdean to see that your father's grave is well honoured,
and this friendliness will help you," he said. "And for his friend such a man as Erpwald will
do much. The church at Eastdean will be no poor one, and you will help him choose the place.
We could not have asked him to do anything that has pleased him more."

One thing I feared was that when he found out who I was he would be ill at ease with me, and
I asked the king to tell him in the way that seemed best to his wisdom, lest the knowledge
should come by chance from some one else.

So he did that, and in a day or two Erpwald came to me and told me that he knew at last who
I was, and we had a long talk together. It was in his mind to try to make me take the lands
again, and I had hard work to make him believe that I was in earnest when I said that I did
not want them. And at the end I made him happy by telling him that the king would let me go
to Eastdean with him before long, so that we could see to things together.

"Well," he said, "this is all very pleasant for me, and it is common saying that you will be
some sort of prince in West Wales before long; but I shall ever feel that my family owes yours
more than I can repay."

After that he was a little uneasy with me for a time, but it soon wore off, and we used to
talk of our ride to Eastdean often enough.

And then happened a thing that set me back into trouble about Owen again. I had had many messages
from him, as may be supposed, and in all of them he said that there was no sign of danger,
or even of plotting against him.

One of my men brought me a written message one evening. A thrall had left it at the gate for
me. And when I asked from whom it came I had the same answer that was given me when that other
writing warned me not to sleep in the moonlight, for it was said to come from a priest whom I knew.

So when I glanced at the writing I was not surprised to see that it was the same, though the
sight of it gave me a cold shudder. Somewhat the same also was the form in which the message ran:

"To Oswald, son of Owen.--It is not good to take wine from the hand of a Briton."

Now, I had some reason to believe that Mara had written the first note, as she seemed the only
possible person to warn us of the plots of her kin, and that was a very plain warning to Owen
rather than to myself, as it seemed. So I thought this might come from the same hand, and be
meant for him also, and that all the more that there was not a stranger left in Glastonbury,
now that the feasting was over, much less a Welshman. But Owen had none but Welsh round him,
and it seemed to say that there was some plot among them again. Maybe he would know who was
meant by the "Briton." Men have nicknames that seem foolish to any but those who are in the
jest of them. We used to call Erpwald the "Saxon" sometimes, because he was not of Wessex,
although we were as much Saxon as he, or more so, according to our own pride.

I went straight down the street to the house of a man whom I knew well, an honest franklin
who had a good horse and knew the border country from end to end, and I bade him ride with
all speed to Owen at Norton with the paper. He was to give it into his own hand, and I made
shift to scrawl a few words on the outside of it that he might shew to my friend the captain
of the guard, and so win speedier entry to the palace. I did not send one of my own men, because
he would have been known as coming from me, while this man was often in Norton about cattle
and the like, and none would wonder at seeing him.

I was easier when I saw him mount and ride away, but I was ill content until the morning came
and brought him back with tidings that all was well, and that Owen would be on his guard.

Also, the franklin was to tell me that Gerent's court went to Isca, which we call Exeter, in
two days' time, and that Owen would fain see me before he went westward, if I could come to
him. There seemed to be difficulty in persuading Gerent to let him return to our court, even
for a day now.

Whereon I went to Ina and told him of this new trouble, and he bade me go. He thought that
some fresh plot was being hatched in Exeter, but both he and I wondered that the warning was
not sent direct to my foster father, rather than in this roundabout way through my hands. He
said the same thing to me that Howel had spoken when I parted from him.

"These plotters will not think twice about striking at Owen through you, if it seems the only
way to reach him. And you mind that the princess told you to have a care for yourself. Evan
said that if strife was stirred up between us and Gerent they would be glad. If they slew you,
my Thane, it is likely that there would be trouble, unless Gerent is as wroth as I should be."

So I went with a few guards and spent the day and night with Owen at Norton. I knew it was
the last chance I should have of seeing him for a long time, but we talked of the coming summer,
promising ourselves that journey together to see Howel. I told him how things went with Elfrida
and me, and he did not seem to wonder much, nor to think it of any consequence. He laughed
at me, and told me to get over it as soon as I could, and that was all.

But this last warning he could no more understand than I. It was his thought that it was meant
for me rather than himself.

"You will have to take heed to any Welshman you meet," he said, "and as you are warned that
should be no very difficult matter. No Briton can ever pretend to be a Saxon."

I do not think that there is more to be said of that meeting, though indeed I would willingly
dwell on it. Mayhap it will be plain why I would do so presently, for I left him bright and
happy in his old place, with nought but the distance from the foster son whom he loved to trouble
him.

But when I rode away again the sorrow of that parting fell heavily on me, and I could not shake
it off. It seemed to me that I would not see Owen again, though why it so seemed I could not
tell. If I had any thought of danger to myself I should have cared little, so it was not that.
I wonder if one can feel "fey" for another man if he is dear to you as no other can be?

CHAPTER XI. HOW ERPWALD FELL FROM CHEDDAR CLIFFS; AND OF ANOTHER WARNING.

In the coming week, after I had thus taken leave of Owen, my friend Herewald, the ealdorman,
would have a hunting party before we all left him and Glastonbury for Winchester, and so it
came to pass that on the appointed day a dozen of us rode with a train of men and hounds after
us along the westward slopes of the Mendips in the direction of Cheddar, rousing the red deer
from the warm woodlands of the combes where they love to hide. We had the slow-hounds with
us, and that, as it seems to me, is better sport than with the swift gaze-hounds I rode after
on the Welsh hills with Eric. It is good to hear the deep notes of them as they light on the
scent of the quarry in the covers, and to see them puzzle out a lost line in the open, and
to ride with the crash and music of the full pack ahead of one in the ears, as the deer doubles
no longer, but trusts to speed for escape.

Those who were with us were friends of mine and of the ealdorman, and there were three ladies
in the party--one of these being, of course, Elfrida.

Erpwald was in close attendance on her, a matter which was taken for granted by every one at
this time. He was to go with the court to Winchester, and thence he and I would ride to Eastdean.

So we hunted through the forenoon, taking one deer, and then rode onward until we came to the
place where the great Cheddar gorge cleaves the Mendips across from summit to base, sheer and
terrible. The village lies at the foot of the gorge on the western side of the hills, half
sheltered between the first cliffs of the vast chasm, but on the hillside above is a deep cover
that climbs upward to the summit, and it was said that a good deer had been harboured there.

So presently, while the hounds were drawing this wood below us, I and Elfrida and Erpwald found
ourselves together and waiting on the hilltop at the edge of the gorge. I was almost sorry
to make a third in that little party, but Erpwald knew nothing of the country, and Elfrida
had no more skill in matters of time and place and distance than most ladies, which is not
saying much, in all truth, though I hardly should dare to set it down, save by way of giving
a reason for my presence with so well contented a party of two.

Now, if there is one who has not seen this Cheddar gorge, I will say that it is as if the mighty
hills had been broken across as a boy breaks a long loaf, or as if some giant had hewn a narrow
gap with the roughest pick that ever was handled. Our forefathers held that Woden had indeed
hewn it so, and we have tales that the evil one himself cleft it in a night, and that the rocky
islands of Steep and Flat Holme, yonder in the mid channel, are the rubbish which he hewed
thence and cast there. Maybe the overhanging cliffs are full four hundred feet high from the
little white track which winds at their foot, and from cliff top to cliff top is but a short
bow shot.

From where we waited one could look sheer down on the track below us, and a man who was coming
slowly along it seemed like a rat in its run, so far off did he appear. At least, so said Erpwald,
who looked over, riding to the very edge. I had no wish to do so, having been there before,
and not altogether liking it.

Then he wanted Elfrida to look over also, and that frightened her, and so we rode back and
forth a little, for the wind was keen on the hill, listening for sound of horn or hound in
the cover.

One reason why we were so near the edge of the cliffs was that Erpwald had not seen the place
before, and had heard much of it; and another was that as no deer could cross the gorge we
should be sure to have the hunt before us when one broke. There are tales of hunted deer, ay,
and of huntsmen also, going over the cliffs at full speed, but that is likely only when the
pace has been hot and the danger is forgotten. I had no mind, either, to see some of Herewald's
young hounds cast themselves over in eagerness if they chose to follow, as young ones will,
the scent of some hill fox who had his lair among the rocks and knew paths to safety on the
face of the cliffs, so that was yet another reason why we were in that place, and I tell this
because it is likely that some one may ask how it was that I suffered my friends to bide in
so perilous a spot, seeing what happened presently.

It was not long before those two forgot me, and rode side by side talking. Maybe I forgot them,
for the last time I was on the cliff tops was across the channel, and I minded the two with
whom I rode then--Howel and Nona.

Then suddenly the ringing of the horn roused us, and Erpwald came toward me, thinking that,
of course, Elfrida was close after him, but with his eyes too intently watching the place where
I had said a deer was most likely to break cover to notice much else. I was some twenty paces
farther from the edge than they. The horses pricked up their ears at the well-known sound,
and stood with lifted heads watching as eagerly as we.

Then there came a little cry from Elfrida as she bade her horse stand, and I heard it trampling
sharply, as if restive, behind us. I turned in my saddle to see what was amiss, and what I
saw made my blood run cold, and the sweat broke out on my forehead in a moment.

With the sound of the horn and the moving away of Erpwald the horse had waxed restive, as horses
will at a cover side when the time to move on seems near. I think that it had probably reared
a little and that she had tried to check it, for now it was backing slowly and uneasily toward
the edge of that awesome cliff that was but ten paces from its heels. Even now the girl was
backing him yet more in her efforts to make him stand still, and I dared not make a move to
catch the bridle lest he should swing round at once from me and go over.

"Spur him, Elfrida. Let his head go, and spur him," I said as quietly as I could, but so that
she must needs hear.

It was all that I could do.

She spurred him, and then as he made a little leap forward, checked him, and that was yet worse.
Then I saw Erpwald, with an ashy face, dismount and go hastily toward the edge behind her,
sidelong, and I swung my horse away from him, so that by chance hers might follow me out of danger.

But that was useless. The brute was yet backing, and his heels were almost on the brink. It
seemed that his rider did not know how near she was.

"Get off!" I said hoarsely. "Get off at once!"

Then she knew, but could only turn and look. The hinder hoofs lost hold on the rocky edge as
the horse made its first slip backward, and even as the loosened stones rattled down, and it
lurched with one leg hanging over the gulf, Erpwald leapt forward and tore Elfrida from the
saddle, and half threw her toward me. I do not remember when I dismounted, but I was there
and grasped her hand and dragged her back out of the way of the lashing fore feet.

Then Erpwald was gone. The horse struggled wildly in one last effort to save itself, and swept
my friend over with it. There was a rattle of stones, a silence, and then a dull crash in the
depths below.

One moment later and all three would have gone. I heard the shout of the man on the track below,
and I wondered in a dull way if he had been killed also.

And now I had Elfrida to tend, for she had fainted. What she had seen I could not tell, but
I hoped that at least she knew nought before Erpwald went. It was as if she had lost consciousness
when he reached her, for I saw the hand on the rein loosen helplessly. I carried her back from
the cliff and tried to bring her to herself, vainly, though indeed I almost wished that she
might remain as she was until we were back in Glastonbury.

Then I wound my horn again and again to bring some to my help, and I tried not to think of
that which surely lay crushed on the road below. There could be no hope for either man or horse.

Then came the sound of swift hoofs, and there was the ealdorman and one or two others, coming
in all haste to know what the urgent call betokened, but by the time that he had dismounted
and asked if there was any hurt to his daughter I could only gasp and point downward. My mouth
was dry and parched, and I did not know how to put into words the thing that had happened;
but he saw that Elfrida's horse was not there, and that Erpwald's ran loose with mine, and
he guessed.

"Over the cliff?" he said, whispering, and I nodded.

"Go and look," he gasped, and he knelt down and took Elfrida from me.

The two who were with him were trying to catch the loose horses, and we were alone for the
moment. So I crept to the edge and looked over, fearing what I should see. But I saw nothing
but the bare track winding there, and I remembered that the cliff overhung.

Then, as I scanned every rock and cranny below me a man came out from under the overhang at
the foot of the cliff and looked up. For a moment my heart leapt, for I thought it was Erpwald.
But it was only the traveller we had seen, and he must have been looking at what had rolled
into the hollow that hid it from me. He glanced up and caught sight of me.

"How did it happen?" he called up to me.

"Dead?" I called back, with a terror of what I knew would be his answer.

Then he laughed at me.

"Do you expect a horse to be leather all through, Master? Of course he is.--Saddle and all
smashed to bits."

Then a dull anger took me that he thought of the horse only, as it seemed, unless he was mazed
as I was with it all.

"The man--the man," I said.

"There is no man here, Master. Did one fall?" he said in a new voice, and he crossed to the
other side of the gorge and scanned the face of the cliff.

"He is not to be seen," he said. "Maybe he has caught yonder."

He pointed to a ledge that was plain enough to me, but nowhere near the place whence the fall
was. There were no ledges to be seen as I looked straight down, and I knew that this place
was the most sheer fall along all the length of the gorge.

Now three more of our party came up, and at once they rode down to the village and so round
to where the man stood. It seemed a long time before they were there and talking to him.

"Ho, Oswald!"

Their voices came cheerfully enough, and I looked down at them.

"There seem to be clefts here and there, and in one of those he must needs be," they said.
"We are going to the village to get a cragsman with a rope, and will be with you anon."

There was at least hope in that, and I watched them ride swiftly away. The ravens were gathering
fast now, knowing that what fell from above must needs be their prey, and two great eagles
were wheeling high overhead, waiting. I heard the kites screaming to one another from above
the eagles, and from the woods came the call of the buzzards. They knew more than I.

Now the ealdorman could not bring Elfrida round, and he thought it best to take her hence.
So he had her lifted to him on his horse, and went slowly and carefully down the hill toward
the village with her. I had told him all that had happened by this time, and I was to bring
word presently to him of how the search went.

So I and those two friends who had first come sat there on the cliff top waiting in silence
for the coming of the man with his ropes. All that could be said had been said.

Here and there on the face of the cliff some yew trees had managed to find a holding, and their
boughs were broken by the passage of the horse at least through them. But there were no shreds
of clothing on them, as if Erpwald had reached them. That might be because the weightier horse
fell first. It seemed to me in that moment of the fall that he was between the horse and the
cliff as he went over the edge, for the forefeet of the horse struck his legs and threw him
backward, and the last thing that I minded was seeing his head against the horse's mane in
some way. That last glimpse will bide with me until I forget all things.

It seemed very long before our friends came back with the ropes. Backwards and forwards in
front of us flew untiringly two ravens, now flying across the gorge, and then again almost
brushing us with their wings as they swept up the face of the cliff from below. We thought
they had a nest somewhere close at hand, for it was their time.

"If Erpwald were dead," I said presently, "those birds would not be so restless. It is hard
to think that they know where he is and how he fares; but at least they tell us that he is
not yet prey for them."

Backward and forward they swept, until my eyes grew dazed with watching them, and then suddenly
they both croaked their alarm note, wheeled quickly away from the cliff's face, and fled across
the gorge and were gone.

Then was a rattle of stones, and a shout from some one in the track below, and I started and
saw a head slowly rising above the edge of the cliff as if its owner had climbed up to us.
White and streaked with blood was the face, but it was not crushed or marred, and it was Erpwald's.

"Lend me a hand," he said, as we stared at him, as one needs must stare at one who comes back
as it were from the grave. "My head swims even yet."

I grasped his hand and helped him to the grass, and once there he stood upright and shook himself,
looking round in an astonished way as he did so.

"No broken bones," he said. "Where is Elfrida? Is she all right? I was rough with her, I fear,
but I could not help it. Could I have managed otherwise?"

"In no way better," I said, finding my tongue at length. "She has gone to the village. But
where have you been!"

"In a long hole just over here," he answered. "But how long has she been gone?"

"How long do you think that you have been in your hole?"

"A few minutes. It cannot be long. Yet it must have been longer than I thought, for the shadows
are changed."

It was a full hour and a half since he fell, but I did not say so, lest it should be some sort
of shock to him. So I bade him sit down while I saw to a cut there was on his head--the only
sign of hurt that he had.

"I thought that I was done for at first," he said.

"So thought I, until we found that you were not at the bottom. Even now some of us have gone
for ropes that we might search the cliff for you. We could not see you anywhere, and there
does not seem to be any ledge here that could catch you."

"Why, you could have touched me with a spear all the time, if you had known where to thrust
it. I think I fainted, or somewhat foolish of the sort. My head hit the rock as I went over.
Also the horse ground me between it and the cliff, so that all my breath went. But that pushed
me into the hole, and I will not grumble. At least, I think that was it, but I cannot be sure.
My senses went."

He began to laugh, but suddenly turned to me with a new look on his face.

"Oh, but was Elfrida feared for me?--What did she think?"

"She saw nought of it," I said. "I believe that she had fainted with terror when you laid hold
of her. The ealdorman came and took her to the village, and I do not suppose she knows that
you have been lost."

"That is well," he said, with his great sigh. "Look over and see my hole."

I did not care to look over again, and, moreover, knew that I could not see it. I mind every
jutting stone and twisted yew that is on the cliff there, to this day. However, one of the
others went a little to one side, where Erpwald had appeared, and swung himself to the tiny
ledge that had given him foothold as he came up, and so looked at the place. There was a long
cleft between two layers of rock which went back into the cliff's face for some depth, with
a little backward slope that had saved the helpless man from rolling out again, and there was
a raven's nest at one end of it. One may see that cleft from below and across the gorge if
one knows where to look, but not by any means from above, by reason of the overhang of the
brink. It was plain that, as he thought, the horse's body, or maybe its shoulder, thrust him
into the cleft, but it was well that he was senseless and so could not struggle, or he would
have surely missed it. It is his saying that he had no trouble in getting into the place, but
more in climbing out.

Now we called the good news to some of our people and the villagers who were on the road below,
and they broke into cheers as they heard it. They could hardly believe that the man they had
seen on the edge just now was Erpwald himself. Then we went down to the village, meeting the
men with the ropes halfway, and so came to the first houses of the street, where the ealdorman
was standing outside one of the better sort. He came to meet us, and I never saw anything like
the look on his face when he saw Erpwald and heard his cheerful greeting. I told him how things
ended.

"I have given a lot of trouble, as it seems" Erpwald said humbly; "but I could not help it."

"Trouble!" said the ealdorman. "Had it not been for you there would have been nought but trouble
for me all the rest of my life."

He took Erpwald's hand as he spoke and pressed it, but he would not say more then. Maybe he
could not. So he turned to me.

"It is all right, Oswald, for Elfrida is herself again, and she saw nothing after she looked
into the gulf below her. I have told her nothing."

"Do not tell her anything, Ealdorman," Erpwald said. "No need to say what a near thing it was,
or that I handled her like a sack of oats. She would never forgive me. But Oswald says it was
all that I could have done. It was a good thing that he was there to take her."

"How are you going to account for the broken head, then?"

"Say I was thrown from my horse afterward, or somewhat of that kind," he said. "Or, stay, these
will do it. I have been birds' nesting. I thought these would please her. One gets falls while
scrambling after the like."

He put his hand into his pouch as he spoke.

"Plague on it, one is broken," he said, bringing out a raven's egg. "There were two in that
place where I stopped falling."

The ealdorman and I stared at him in wonder. It amazed us that in such a moment a man should
think of this trifle. And now he was turning his soiled pouch inside out and wiping it with
a tuft of grass, grumbling the while. It was plain that the danger had made no impression on him.

"Were not you frightened when you found how nearly you had fallen from the cliff?" I asked him.

"No; why should I be? I did not fall from it. I was feared enough when I thought that I was
going, and I thought I was at the bottom when I came to myself. But as I had not gone so far,
there was an end."

I minded the story of the Huntsman's Leap, and how I had felt when I knew my escape. It was
plain that this forest-bred Erpwald, with his cool head, and lack of power to picture what
might have been, would make a good warrior, so far as dogged fearlessness goes, and that is
a long way.

Now the ealdorman kept what else he might have to say until we were at home, for it was time
for us to be off. So we brushed Erpwald down and hid his cut under a cap that the good franklin
of the house lent him, for his own was gone, as he said, to make a bird's nest somewhere on
the cliffs; and then Elfrida came from the cottage, looking a little white and shaken with
her fright, but otherwise none the worse, and we started.

Erpwald kept out of her sight for a little while, but as we were fairly on the way home it
was not long before he found his way to her side, and we let those two have their say out together.

One by one the friends who had joined us dropped out of the party as their way led them aside,
until by the time we reached the ealdorman's house only half a dozen of us were left. Then
Herewald would have us come in for some cheer after the long day, but we were tired and stained,
and I must be back at the guardroom, and so he bade his folk bring somewhat out here to us.
There was a cask of ale already set on the low wall by the gate for the men, and we sat on
our horses waiting, with a little crowd of thralls and children round us, looking at the two
good deer that we brought back. Then the steward and some of the women of the house brought
horns of ale from the house for us.

One of the women came to me, and without seeing who she was, or thinking of doing so, I reached
out my hand for the horn that she held up, and at that moment some one from behind seemed to
run against my horse's flank, and he lashed out and reared as if he was hurt. My rein was loose,
and I was bending carelessly over to take the horn, and it was all that I could do to keep
my seat for the moment. As for the girl, she dropped the horn and ran from the plunging horse
into the doorway for safety.

Then I heard the sharp crack of a whip, and the voice of the head huntsman speaking angrily:

"Out on you for a silly oaf!--What mean you by going near the thane at all?"

The whip cracked again, and the long lash curled round the shoulders of a ragged thrall, who
tried in vain to escape it.

"On my word, I believe you did it on purpose!" the huntsman cried, with a third shrewd lash
that found its lodgment rightly.

"Mercy, Master," mumbled the man, writhing; "it is this terrible crossing of the eyes. I do
not rightly see where I go."

I had quieted the horse by this time, and I held up my hand to stay the lash from the thrall.
Some one picked up the horn that the girl had let fall.

"Let him be," I said. "It could but have been a chance, and he is lucky not to have been kicked.
See, he does squint most amazingly."

"Ay," growled the huntsman, "so he does; but I never knew a cross-eyed man before who had any
trouble in walking straight enough."

The thrall slunk away among his fellows. He was a round-shouldered man with hay-coloured hair
and a stubby beard of the same, and he rubbed his shoulders with his elbows lifted as he went.
Then the steward gave me a fresh horn, and we said farewell to our host and hostess, and Erpwald
and I went our way.

"I thought that the horse would have knocked the Welsh girl over," he said presently. "She
was pretty nimble, however. That churl must have kicked your horse sharply to make him plunge
as he did."

"Trod on his fetlock most likely," I answered. "Clumsy knave."

"Well, that huntsman knows how to use a lash, at all events, and he will have a care in future.
But how my head does ache!"

"That is likely enough," I said, laughing. "It was a shrewd knock, and it kept you in that
hole for the longest hour and a half I have ever known."

"It does take somewhat out of the common to hurt me much," he said simply.

"Well, by tomorrow you will be famed all over Glastonbury as the man who fell over Cheddar
cliffs and escaped by reason of lighting on the thickest part of him," I answered.

It was a poor jest enough, but it set him laughing. I did not wish him to say more of what
had just happened, for I was puzzled about it, and wanted to get my thoughts to work. He had
spoken of the very thing that I had been warned of, for almost had I taken the horn from the
hand of a Briton--the Welsh girl of whom he spoke once before. I had forgotten her, for I do
not think that I had ever seen her since she came here, until now. But at this moment I seemed
to have a feeling that her face was in some way familiar to me, though only in that half-formed
way that troubles one, and I was trying to recall how this might be.

Erpwald went off to the guest chamber where he was lodged, and presently I found our old leech
and took him to see after him. He went comfortably to sleep after his hurt had been dressed,
and so I left him. I will say at once that he felt no more trouble from it.

Then I went to the stables to see how fared my horse after the day's work, and found him enjoying
his feed after grooming. I looked him over, but I could see no mark to show where the man might
have hurt him. But as I was running my hand along the smooth hock to feel for any bruise, my
groom said to me:

"Have you had a roll in a thorn bush, Master?"

"No.--What makes you think I might have had one?"

"I found this in his flank when I rubbed him down, and it was run thus far into him."

He held out a long stiff blackthorn spine, marking a full inch on its length with his thumbnail.

"Enough to set a horse wild for a moment," he went on. "And unless you had fallen, I could
not think how it got there."

"In which flank was it?" I asked, taking the thorn from him.

"The near flank, Master."

That was where the thrall ran against him, and surely the huntsman was not so far wrong when
he said that he did so on purpose. If so, it was done at the right moment to give me a heavy
fall, save for a bit of luck, or maybe horsemanship. It was a strange business.

"I was through a thicket or two today," I said carelessly. "Maybe I hit a branch in just the
right way to drive it in. If we were galloping he would not have noticed it. These little things
happen oddly sometimes."

Then the man began to tell me some other little mishaps to horses that could not be explained,
bustling about the while. And before long I left the stables and went to my own quarters, with
the thorn yet in my hand. It had been cut from the bush, and not broken, just as if it had
been chosen. Now, if these hidden plotters wanted to frighten me, I am bound to say that they
succeeded more or less. Was the giving of the horn by the Welsh girl to be a signal to the
thrall in some way? If there is one thing that a man need not be ashamed to say that he fears,
it is treachery, and I seemed to be surrounded by it. Hardly could a house-carle come to my
door but it seemed to me that he must needs bring one of these unlucky notes. It was just as
well that I had some unknown friend to write them to me, though I cannot say that I had profited
by them so far.

Now I sent two of my men to see if they could find the cross-eyed thrall, but of course he
was not to be laid hands on. Only the people who had been at the ealdorman's door seemed to
have seen him, and they could not tell who or whence he was. He was so easily known, however,
that I thought I should be certain to have him sooner or later. Such a squint as he had is
not to be hidden, and that made the wonder that he had dared to do this all the greater.

I slept on it all, and woke with fewer fears on me, for I was overwrought yesterday after all
the terrible waiting on the cliff and what went before. It was Sunday, moreover, and the early
services in the new church helped mightily to set a new face on things. So when I had seen
to the few duties of the morning, I went down the street to ask after Elfrida, being anxious
to hear that her fright had done her no hurt. Erpwald had been there before me, but I had missed
him since.

Elfrida was well, and glad to see me. We sat and talked of yesterday, and I found that Erpwald
had said nothing of how he saved her, and it was pleasant to tell her of it, while she listened
with eyes that sparkled. It was plain that I could have found nothing that would please her
better than to talk of him. So I even told her how he had gone over the edge into the cleft,
but without saying that we feared for his life for so long. Then her father came in, and at
once she asked after some sick person.

"How goes it with him now," she said.

"Well enough, says the leech; but he had well-nigh died in the night."

"What is it that ails him?--Can the leech tell that yet?"

"He has taken somewhat that has poisoned him," the ealdorman answered. "The leech asked if
he had eaten of mushrooms, or rather toadstools, by mistake."

"But there are none about as yet."

Now I asked who the sick man was, and Herewald told me that he was such an one who was with
us yesterday. I minded him as one who stood near me at the door when my horse reared. I thought
that he was the man who picked up my dropped horn, and I was sorry for him. However, that was
not much concern of mine, so we passed to other talk for a little, and then Elfrida said:

"Are there any tidings of my maiden? I fear for her."

"None at all," the ealdorman said. "Here is a strange thing, Oswald; for that girl whom you
so nearly rode over last evening is as clean gone as if she had never been. None saw her go,
but when supper time came she was nowhere to be found. Nor is there any trace of her now."

I felt as if I had expected to hear that the Welsh girl had gone as well as the thrall, and
I cannot say that I was surprised; though as they had failed in whatever they meant to compass
this time, I could not see why they should not have tried again.

"Whence came she," I asked as carelessly as I could. "Maybe she has only gone home, fearing
blame for dropping that horn."

"She has no home to go to, that we ken. She came from Jago at Norton only a little while ago,
and she would hardly try to get back there across the hills alone. She is an orphan serf of
his, and I fear that she has been stolen away."

"She has not been here long, then?"

"She came when you were with Owen. Jago sent to ask if Elfrida would take her in, she being
worth having as a maid. His wife had no place for her, but would that she was well cared for.
So she came with the first chapman who travelled this way."

Now as I thought of this girl, in a moment it flashed across me where I had seen her before.
It was on board the ship at Tenby, and she came with Dunwal and his daughter Mara. I was certain
of it, though I had only seen her that once, for there I was in a strange land, and so noticed
things and people at which I should hardly have glanced elsewhere. The Danish and British dress
over there was strange to me also.

Then, as soon as I had a chance I asked the ealdorman for a few moments of private speech,
and we went into his own chamber that opened on the high place of the hall where we had been
sitting. There I told him all the trouble, for surely I needed all help that I could find,
and at the last I said:

"Mara, the daughter of Dunwal, was at guest quarters with Jago."

Then I saw the face of my friend paling slowly under its ruddy tan, and he rose and walked
across the room once or twice, biting his lip as though in wrath or sore trouble. I could not
tell which it was, but I thought that he was putting some new thought together in his mind.

"It is plain enough," he said at last, staying his walk at a side table. "I saw my sick man
pick up that horn the girl dropped, and he looked into it and laughed and drank from it, saying
that it was a pity to waste good stuff. See, here it is. The curl of it may have kept a fair
draught in it for him."

There were several horns standing in their silver or gilded rests on the table at his elbow,
and he held up that one which had been brought to me, and then dropped it.

It fell with its mouth upward, rocking on the bend in its midst, so that it might well have
had a gill or two left in it, for it had a twist as well as the curve in its length, which
was somewhat longer than usual.

"Poison!" he said in a low voice. "That a friend should be thus treated at my own door, by
my own servant! What shall I say to you?"

"It is hard on you as on any one, Ealdorman," I answered. "But the girl did not come from Jago.
Mara sent her in some way. I am sure it was she whom I saw at Tenby."

"Ay," he said, "one could not dream that a message seeming to come from honest Jago was not
in truth from him. The trick was sure to be found out, and that soon, though."

"Not until the deed was done, maybe. This is the first chance that the Welsh girl has had to
hand me aught."

The ealdorman held his peace for a moment, and then he broke out suddenly:

"By all the relics in Glastonbury, that thrall saved your life! He is no fool either, for he
knew that the horn must be spilt in one way or the other, and it was worth while for you to
run the risk of a fall rather than that you should drink it. How had he knowledge of what was
to be done?"

"Whoever wrote the warning told him. It was a chance, however, that we did not come into the
house."

"There is some friend watching these traitors," said Herewald. "I did not know the thrall,
but so often men from the hill who have followed us come here for the ale that they know will
be going, that I thought nothing of a stranger more or less. But why choose my house for this
deed?"

I knew well enough, and it was plain when I minded the ealdorman that my vow was well known,
and told, moreover, by Thorgils in Mara's hearing. This was a house where I should often be,
and when Mara found out that Jago was a friend of Herewald of Glastonbury the rest was easy.

"Well, I will send to Jago today, and find out what he knows. That Cornish damsel must be better
watched. Come, let us go and tell the king."

So we went, and when Ina heard what we had to say he grew very grave, and asked many questions
before he told us what his thoughts were.

"They have struck at Owen through you, my Thane, even as I feared," he said. "I think that
the matter of the land of Tregoz has saved you, for I seem to see in this thrall one of his
men who hates him and will thwart his plans. There are yet men who will carry out what he planned
ere he died. Now I am glad that we soon shall be gone from hence, and that is the first time
that I have been ready to leave Glastonbury."

Now I will say that when Herewald's messenger came back from Norton it was even as we thought.
Jago had no knowledge of the Welsh girl, or her sending. But Mara was gone a fortnight or more
since, for Gerent had sent her father for safer keeping to the terrible old castle of Tintagel
on the wild shore, and she had followed to be as near him as she might. Doubtless the girl
might be found there also in time.

So I had no more warnings, and in a few days the strain on my mind wore off. I sent a message
through Jago to Owen to tell him what had happened, so that he should have less anxiety for
his own comfort, while he knew that I was shortly to be far hence.

Before that came about, however, Erpwald and Elfrida were betrothed with all solemnity in the
new church, for their wedding was to be held here also in the summer, when all was ready for
a new mistress at Eastdean. So Erpwald rode with us to Winchester a proud man, and by that
time I thought I had forgotten that I ever held myself entitled to the place he had won.

But I did not forget the plotting, and as the days wore on, and my thoughts of it grew a little
clearer, I began to wonder if the thrall who saved me from the poisoned horn might not be the
man who slew Tregoz on the ramparts at Norton in the moonlight. I must say that it went against
the grain for me to believe that Mara had aught to do with contriving my end through her maid,
but unless there was some crafty hand at work in the background, all unsuspected, it seemed
that there could be none else.

And then one day I found the little letter that Nona had sent me. In that I was warned against
Morfed the Cornish priest, and I had forgotten him.

Now I will confess that two days after the Cheddar business I took that little brooch that
Elfrida had given me, and dropped it into three fathoms of water as I rode by the mere one
day. There are foolishnesses one does not care to be reminded of.

CHAPTER XII. OF THE MESSAGE BROUGHT BY JAGO, AND A MEETING IN DARTMOOR.

As one may be sure, there was no danger for me at Winchester, and if I had any anxiety at all
it was for Owen, who had dangers round him which I did not know. I had sent him word by that
old friend of his, Jago of Norton, how the last warning was justified, and had heard from him
that with the imprisonment of Dunwal his last enemies seemed to have been removed or quieted.
So I was more at ease concerning him, and presently rode with Erpwald to Eastdean in the fair
May weather to see the beginning of that church which should keep the memory of my father.

And all I will say concerning that is that when I came to visit the old home once more I knew
that I had chosen right. The life of a forest thane was not for me, and Eastdean seemed to
have nought of pleasure for me, save in a sort of wonderment in seeing how my dreams had kept
so little of aught of the true look of the place. In them it had grown and grown, as it were,
and now I was disappointed with it. I suppose that it is always so with what one has not seen
since childhood, and for me it was as well. I felt no shadow of regret for the choice I had made.

So after the foundation was laid with all due rites, I went back to the king and found him
at Chippenham, for he was passing hither and thither about his realm, as was his wont, biding
for weeks or maybe months here, and so elsewhere, to see that all went well. And I knew that
in Erpwald and his mother I left good and firm friends behind me, and that all would be done
as I should have wished. Ay, and maybe better than I could have asked, for what Erpwald took
in hand in his plain single-heartedness was carried through without stint.

Through Chippenham come the western chapmen and tin traders, and so we had news from the court
at Exeter that all was well and quiet, and so I deemed that there was no more trouble to be
feared. It seemed as if Owen had taken his place, and that every foe was stilled.

And yet there grew on me an uneasiness that arose from a strange dream, or vision, if you will,
that came to me one night and haunted me thereafter, so soon as ever my eyes closed, so that
I grew to fear it somewhat. And yet there seemed nothing in it, as one may say. It was a vision
of a place, and no more, though it was a place the like of which I had never seen.

I seemed to stand in a deep hollow in wild hills, and round me closed high cliffs that shut
out all but the sky, so that they surrounded a lawn of fair turf, boulder strewn here and there,
and bright with greener patches that told of bog beneath the grass. In the very midst of this
lawn was a round pool of black, still water, and across on the far side of that was set a menhir,
one of those tall standing stones that forgotten men of old were wont to rear for rites that
are past. It was on the very edge of the pool, as it seemed, and was taller than any I had
seen on our hills.

And when in my dream I had seen this strange place, always I woke with the voice of Owen in
my ears calling me. That was the thing which made me uneasy more than that a dream should come
often.

Three times that dream and voice came to me, but I said nought of it to any man. Then one day
into the courtyard of the king's hall rode men in haste from the westward, and when I was called
out to meet them the first man on whom my eyes rested was Jago of Norton, and my heart fell.
Dusty and stained he was with riding, and his face was worn and hard, as with trouble, and
he had no smile for me.

"What news, friend?" I said, coming close to him as he dismounted.

"As they took you, so have they taken Owen. We have lost him."

"Is he slain?"

"We think not. He was wounded and borne away. We cannot trace him or his captors. Gerent needs
you, and I have a letter to your king."

I asked him no more at this time, but I took him straightway to Ina, travel stained as he was.
He had but two men with him, and they were Saxons he had asked for from Herewald the ealdorman
as he passed through Glastonbury in haste.

So Ina took the letter, and opened it, and as he read it his face grew troubled, so that my
fear that I had not yet heard the worst grew on me. Then he handed it to me without a word.

"Gerent of the Britons, to Ina of Wessex.--I pray you send me Oswald, Owen's foster son, for
I need him sorely. On my head be it if a hair of him is harmed. He who bears this is Jago,
whom you know, and he will tell my need and my loneliness. I pray you speed him whom I ask for."

That was all written, and it seemed to me that more was not needed. One could read between
the lines, after what Jago had said.

"What is the need for you?" Ina asked, as I gave him back the letter.

"To seek for Owen, my father," I said. "Jago must tell what we have to hear."

Then he told us, speaking in his own tongue, so that I had to translate for the king now and
then, and it was a heavy tale he brought.

Owen had gone to some house that belonged to Tregoz, in the wild edge of Dartmoor north of
Exeter, and there men unknown had set on the house and burnt it over him, slaying his men and
sorely wounding himself. Only one man had escaped to tell the tale, and he was wounded and
could tell little. And the deed was wrought in the night, and into the night he had seen the
men depart, bearing the prince with them. But who and whence they were he could neither tell
nor guess.

Then Gerent had ridden in all haste to the house, and found even as the wounded man had told,
for all was still as the burners left it. But no man of all the village, nor the shepherds
on the hills, could tell more. Owen was lost without trace left.

Then said Ina: "What more could be done by Oswald?--Will men help a Saxon?"

"This must be between ourselves, King Ina," Jago said plainly. "It is in my mind that if Oswald
and I or some known lord of the British will go to that place and sit there quietly with rewards
in our hands, we may learn much; for men fear Gerent the king in his wrath, and they fled from
his coming."

"So be it," said Ina. "Oswald shall go, and it seems to me that every day is precious, so that
he shall go at once. Is there thought that Owen may be taken out of the country, as Oswald
was taken?"

"Every port and every fisher is watched, and has been so. For that was the first thing we feared.
And word has gone to Howel of Dyfed and Mordred of Morganwg, farther up the channel, that they
should watch their shores also. Nought has been left undone that may be done."

So it came to pass that on the next morning Jago and I rode away together along the great road
that leads westward to Exeter and beyond, asking each train of chapmen whom we met if there
was yet news, and hearing nought but sorrow for the loss of the prince they had hailed with
such joy again. Nor did we draw rein, save to change horses, till we clattered up the ancient
paved street of the city on its hill, and dismounted at the gates of the white palace where
Gerent waited me.

There the first man who came out to greet me was one whom I was altogether glad to see, though
his presence astonished me for a moment. Howel of Dyfed passed from the great door and bade
me welcome.

"It is a different meeting from that which we had planned, Thane," he said, somewhat sadly.
"I am here to help you if I can; for when we heard that Owen was lost much as you were, we
came over straightway, there being reasons of her own which would not let Nona rest till we
had sailed. Presently you will hear them from herself, for she is here. Glad am I to see you."

"There is no fresh hope?" I asked, as we went in.

"None; but we hope much from you. At least, your coming will cheer the old king, for he is
well-nigh despairing."

Now I was prepared to see some change in Gerent by reason of all this sorrow and trouble, but
not for all that was plain when I first set eyes on him presently. Old and shrunken he seemed,
and his voice was weary and dull. Yet there came a new light into his eyes as he saw me, and
he greeted me most kindly, bidding me, after a few words of welcome, to rest and eat awhile
after the long ride, before we spoke together of troubles.

So in a little time I sought him again, and found him in a room with warm sunlight streaming
into it, making the strange pictured walls bright and cheerful, and yet somewhat over close
for one who loves the open air or the free timbered roof that loses itself in the smoke wreaths
overhead, with the wind blowing through it as it blows through the forest whence it was wrought,
and with twitter of birds to mind one of that also. Nevertheless, the old king in his purple
mantle with its golden hem over the white linen tunic, and his little golden circlet on his
curling white hair, seemed in place there, even as I minded thinking that Owen in his British
array seemed in place.

Now Howel stood where Owen was wont to stand, and the only other in the room was the lady,
who rose from the king's side to greet me.

And if her smile was a little sad, it was plain that Nona the princess was glad as her father
to see her guest again, and I will say that to me the sight of her was like a bright gleam
in the grey of sadness that was over all things. It did not seem possible that she and trouble
could find place together.

So I greeted her, and she went back to her place quickly, for hardly would Gerent wait for
us to speak a few words before he would talk of that which was in all his thoughts; and then
came Jago and stood at the door, guarding it as it were against listeners.

Now the old king told me all that I had heard from his thane already, and I must tell what
I thought thereof, and that was little enough beyond what I have said, and at last, when he
seemed to wait for me to ask him more, I put a question that had come into my mind as I rode,
and asked if there might be any chance of Morfed the priest having a hand in the matter.

And at that the king's frown grew black, and he answered fiercely:

"Morfed, the mad priest?--Ay, why had not I thought of him before? Look you, Oswald, into my
hall of justice he came, barefoot and ragged from his wanderings, but a few days before Owen
left me; and before all the folk, high and low, who were gathered there he cried out on all
those who spoke for peace with the men who owned the rule of Canterbury, and who held traffic
with the Saxon who has taken our lands. And Owen was for speaking him fair, seeing that he
was crazed, but I bade him be silent, telling the priest that what was lost is lost, and there
needed no more said thereof; and that if the men of Austin and we differed it was not the part
of Christian men to make the difference wider, even as Owen and Aldhelm were wont to say. And
at that he raved, and threatened to lay the heaviest ban of the Church on Owen, and on all
who held with him, and so he was taken from my presence, and I have seen him no more. But he
was a friend of Morgan."

"That is the priest who was with Dunwal, surely," Howel said.

"The same," I answered--"and I was warned of him," and I looked toward the princess, and she
smiled a little and flushed.

"I mind how he glared at Oswald across my table," Howel said. "But one need fear little from
him, as I think. Who will heed a crazy priest?"

"Many," answered Gerent. "The more because they deem him inspired. I will have him taken and
brought to me."

There fell a little uneasy silence after that outburst of the king's, but I felt that I had
not yet heard all that they would tell me. So we waited for the old king to speak, and at last
he turned suddenly to the princess, setting his thin white hand on her shoulder, and said:

"Now tell Oswald what foolishness brought you here, Nona, daughter of Howel, that he may say
what he thinks thereof."

"Maybe he also will think it foolishness, King Gerent," she said in her low clear voice. "But
however that may be, I will tell him, for in what I have to say may be help. I cannot tell,
but because it might be so I begged my father to bring me hither. It was all that I could do
for my godfather."

There was just a little quiver in her lip as she said this, and the fierce old king's face
softened somewhat.

"Nay," he said, "I meant no unkindness. I forgot that it is not right to speak to a child as
to grown warriors. It is long since there was a lady about the place who is one of us."

Then Nona smiled wanly, and set her hand on that of the old king, and kept it there while she
spoke.

"Indeed, Thane, it may be foolishness, and now perhaps as time goes on it begins to seem so
to me. Once, as I know now, on the night when Owen first slept in his new house on the moor,
I dreamed that he was in sore danger, for I seemed to see shadows of men creeping everywhere
round the house that I have never set eyes on; and again, on the next night, and that was the
night of the burning, I saw the house in flames, and men fought and fell around it among the
flickering shadows, but I did not seem to see Owen. And then on the next night, soon after
I first slept, I woke trembling with the most strange dream of all. I think that the light
had hardly gone from the west, but the moon had not yet risen. I dreamed that I stood at the
end of a narrow valley, whose sides were of tall cliffs of rough grey stone, and in the depth
of the valley I saw a great menhir standing on the farther side of a black pool. And all the
surface of the pool was rippling as if somewhat had disturbed it, and set upright in the ground
on this side was a sword, like to that which King Ina gave you, Thane--ay, that which you wear
now, not like my father's swords. And I thought that I heard one call on your name."

Now I heard Jago stifle a cry behind me, and as for myself I stood silent, biting my lip that
I might know that I was not dreaming also, and I saw that Howel was looking at me in a wondering
way, while Gerent glowered at me. All the time that she had been speaking, Nona had looked
on the ground, in some fear lest we should smile at this which had been called foolishness,
and I was glad when the king broke the silence with a short laugh.

"Well, Oswald, what think you of this? On my word, it seems that you half believe in the foolishness
that some hold concerning dreams."

"I would not hold this so," said Howel,--"seeing that she has dreamed of things that did take
place, as we know too well."

"Fire and fighting? Things, forsooth, that every village girl on the Saxon marches is frayed
with every time she sleeps."

So said Gerent, and I answered him:

"Foolishness I cannot call this, either, Lord King. I also have seen the same in the night
watches. I have seen pool and menhir, and the cliffs that hem them, even as the princess saw
them. And I woke with the voice of Owen in my ears."

"Dreams, dreams!" the old king said. "Go to, you do but tell me these trifles to please me,
and as if to give me hope that in such an unheard-of place we shall find him whom we have lost.
Say no more, but go your ways on the morrow and search. And may you find your dream valley
and what is therein."

He rose up impatiently, and Howel gave him his arm from the room. Jago followed him, and when
the heavy curtain fell across the doorway, Nona, who had risen with Gerent, turned to me.

"I am sure now that there we shall find Owen," she said, with a new light of hope in her eyes.
"And also I am sure that at the bottom of all the matter is Morfed the priest."

"It was a needed warning against him that I had from your hand, Princess," I said; "now let
me thank you for it."

"I am glad you had it safely, for indeed I feared for you with those people on the ship with
you. What has become of them?"

I told her the fate of Dunwal, so far as I knew it. I did not then know that Gerent had put
an end to his plotting once for all two days after Owen was lost. As for his daughter, I knew
no more than Jago told the ealdorman.

Then she said: "Now I would ask you to speak to my father, that he would let me go with you
to Dartmoor, that I may help you search. I do not like to be far from him, but he says there
may be danger. Which makes me the more anxious not to leave him, as you may suppose."

She smiled, but as I made no answer she went on:

"And maybe Owen will need nursing when you find him. They say he was sorely wounded. Ay, I
am sure we shall find him, else why did we have these strange visions? And I think that were
he not disabled altogether he would have won to freedom in some way."

"It is that wounding that makes me fear the worst," I said in a low voice; for indeed the thought
of Owen as hurt, in the care, or want of care, of those who hated him, was not easy to be borne.
"It is my fear that we shall be too late."

"Nay, but you must not fear that," she said quickly. "That is no sort of mind in which you
have to set to work. I will think rather that they have carried him to some safe tending. There
will be time enough to dread the worst when it is certain. There was nought in the dreams to
make us think that he was dead."

The bright face and voice cheered me wonderfully, and for the moment, at least, I felt sure
that our search would not fail. Then I tried to persuade her not to come with us. One could
not say that there was any safety, even for her, among the men who would harm Owen, though
I thought that none would be in the least likely to fall on Howel. Rather, they would keep
out of his way altogether. In my own mind I wished that I was going alone, or with none but
Jago, though, on the other hand, it might be possible that men would speak to him if they would
not to me. And at last I did persuade her to bide here until we had news, promising that if
need was she should come and see the place herself when all was known.

"Well, maybe it is not so needful that I should go now," she said. "I thought that I alone
could tell my father when that valley was found, but you know as much of it as I, and will
be sure when you stand in it."

And so we fell to talk of these visions which were so much alike, and there was but one difference
in them. In the dream of the princess the pool had been ruffled, and mine was still as glass.
And that seemed strange, and we could make nothing of it. Then Howel came back, and there is
little more to say of the doings of that evening. There was no feasting in Gerent's house now.

Very early in the next dawning Howel and I rode westward with five score men of Gerent's best
after us, into wilder country than I had ever yet seen; and late in the evening we came to
where the countless folds of Dartmoor lie round the heads of Dart River. And there Tregoz had
set his house, and I think that it was the first that had ever been in those wilds, save the
huts of the villagers. Only the hall of the place had been burnt, and there yet stood the house
of the steward on the village green, if one may call a meadow that had a dozen huts round it
by that name, and we bestowed ourselves in the great room of that, while our men found places
in stables and outhouses and the huts. Every man of the place had fled as they saw us coming,
for the fear of Gerent was on them; but the women and children remained, and they had heard
of the son of Owen, at least, since he and I were in Dartmoor in the spring. I had some of
them brought to me when we were rested, and told them that none need fear aught, knowing that
they would tell their menfolk.

And so it was, for after we had been quietly in the place for two days the men were back and
at their work again. I do not think that even our Mendip miners were so wild as these people,
and their strange Welsh was hard for me and Howel to understand. I will say that the whole
matter seemed hopeless for a time, for no man would say anything to us about it. If we spoke
to a man, questioning him, and presently wished to find him again, he was gone, and it would
be days ere he came back.

Some of our guards knew the country as well as most, and with them we rode many a long mile
into the hills during the first few days, searching for the deepest valleys, and ever did I
look to see the great menhir before me as we came to bend after bend of the hills. Circles
of standing stones we found, and cromlechs, ruins of ancient round stone huts where villages
had been before men could remember, and once we saw a menhir on the hillside; but that was
not what I sought, and none could tell us of the lost valley.

Yet it was in my mind as I questioned one or two that their looks seemed to say that the description
of the place was not unknown to them, and if they would they could tell me more. At last, when
I came to know the speech better at the end of a week, I thought that I would try another plan;
I would trust to the shepherds, and ride alone for once across the hills. I thought that, even
were I set upon, my horse would take me from danger more quickly than hillmen could run, and
Howel, unwillingly enough, agreed that it seemed to be the only chance. Maybe the men would
speak more openly with me on the hillside and alone.

So I asked if there was any one could tell me where there were menhirs in the valleys, and
a shepherd said that he knew two or three. So I rode with him at my side to one of these, but
it was not that which I sought; and, as I hoped, the man was more willing to speak, and we
got on well enough. We had not met with a soul all day, but my hawk had taken two bustard after
I saw the stone and was disappointed. One of these as a gift to the shepherd had opened his
lips wonderfully, and we were talking as we rode in the dusk, and were not so far from the
village, of another stone that I was to see next day, when I asked him if he had ever heard
of the lost valley of pool and menhir.

He did not answer, but shrunk to my side, looking round him fearfully.

"What comes, Lord," he said, whispering;--"see yonder?"

He pointed across the bare hillside, and I looked but saw nothing.

"I saw nought," I said. "Is it unlucky to speak of the place?"

"I saw somewhat leap from yonder rock," he whispered; "it went behind that other."

Plainly the man was terrified, and I asked him what he feared.

"The good folk, Lord."

"Pixies?--Do they come when one speaks of the lost valley?"

"Speak lower, Lord,--lower! Look, yonder it is again!"

Then I also saw in the dusk the figure of a man who crept softly from one great boulder to
another, and without thinking of the terror of the shepherd I spurred my horse, and rode straight
for the rock behind which the figure disappeared, having no mind to have an arrow put into
me at short range by one of the men of Tregoz--or of Morfed--unawares.

The shepherd howled in fright when he was left, but I did not heed him, and in a moment I was
round the rock and almost on the cowering man whom I had seen. He turned to fly, and I cried
to him to stop, but he only got another rock between me and him, for the hillside was covered
with them, and shrank behind it, so that I could only see his wild eyes as he glared at me
across it. He said nothing, and I did not think that he was armed, so far as the dim evening
light would let me see.

"Why are you dogging me thus?" I cried; "come out, and no harm will befall you."

I rode round, and he shifted as I did, so that he was between me and the shepherd, and then
I called to the latter that this was but a man, and bade him come and help me to catch him.
Whereon the man looked swiftly over his shoulder and saw that he was fairly trapped.

"Keep him back, Master," he said in a strange growling voice, which was not that of a Dartmoor
savage either in tone or speech. "Keep him back, and we will talk together; I mean no harm."

But I had no need to tell the shepherd not to come, for he bided where he was, being afraid;
but I held up my hand to him as if to bid him be still, lest the man should know that he would
not help me.

"Come out like a man," I said. "One would think that you were some evildoer."

"Master, I will swear that I am not. Let that be, for I have somewhat to tell you that you
will be glad to hear."

"If that is true, why did you not come openly, instead of waiting till I had you in a corner?
Every one knows that there is reward for news from any honest man."

"There are those who would take my life if they caught me, Master. I have been seeking for
speech with you alone all this day; I hoped the shepherd would leave you hereabout for his
home, and then I would have come to you."

"Well," I said, "if you could tell me what I need to hear I will hold you safe from any."

"Master, will you swear that?" said the man eagerly.

Then it came across me that maybe this was one of those who fell on Owen, for one might well
look for a traitor among so many.

So I answered cautiously: "Save and except you are one of those who have wrought harm to the
prince you shall be safe. If you are one who has him alive and in keeping you shall be safe also."

"Master, you have promised, and it is well known that you keep your word. I am your man henceforward,
by reason of that promise. I will give you a token that I have not harmed the prince."

"What have you to tell?"

"Master, they say that you seek the lost valley, of which none will speak."

"That seems true; but speak up, and mouth not your words so."

"Here was I born and bred, Master," said the man, still in the same growling voice. "I know
where the lost valley is hidden, though none may go there save at peril of life. It is unlucky
so much as to speak thereof."

"Can you take me within sight of its place, so that I can find it?" I asked, with a wild hope
at last springing up in me.

"I can; and, Master, unluckier than I am I cannot be, so that life is little to me. Into that
place I will even go for you, and risk what may befall me, if only you will find pardon for
me. Only, I do not know if you will find aught of Owen the prince there."

"You must be in a bad way, my poor churl," said I, "if things are thus with you. But if you
will help me to that place, and there let me find what I may, there is naught that may not
be forgiven you. Even were it murder, I will pay the weregild for you, and you shall have cause
to say that the place has no ill luck for you."

"Thane," said the man, in a new voice that was strangely familiar to me, "you have spoken,
and forgiven I shall surely be."

Then he rose from behind the rock and came to my side, and took my hand and kissed it again
and again, and surely I had seen his form before.

"Thane, I am Evan the outlaw, and my life is yours because you forgave me a little once, and
saved me from the wolves, giving that life back to me when I knew it well nigh gone."

I looked at the pale hair and beard of the man, and wondered. Evan's had been black as night.

"It is Evan's voice," I said; "but you have changed strangely."

"Needs must I, Thane, with every man's hand against me, if I would serve you and Owen the prince
for your sake."

Then I looked round for my shepherd, but he had fled.

"Come to the house with me," I said. "I think that none will know you, and if they do so I
will answer for you."

"No, Thane; after tomorrow, seeing that even Howel sets such store on finding the valley, as
men tell me, I shall be safe even from him. I think that you are the only one who will trust
me yet."

There I knew that he was most likely right. Had I not been certain that he could have kept
me from knowing him even yet, I think that I might have been doubtful of him myself.

"As you will," I answered. "We can meet tomorrow. Now give me that token by which I am to know
that you have not harmed Owen."

"It is right that you should not yet trust me," Evan said, as if he read my thoughts, "for
I do not deserve it. Here is one token: 'It is not good to sleep in the moonlight.' And I will
give you yet another, if I may, for, indeed, I would have you know that the words I spoke yonder
were true when I said that you should be glad that you freed me, and that I have tried to serve
you. That may be known by the token of the blackthorn spine and the dog whip."

I reined up my horse in wonderment and stared at him, and he came close to my side, so that
I could see him plainly. And, lo! his shoulders grew rounded, and his eyes crossed terribly,
and they bided so, and he mumbled the words he had said when the whip of the huntsman fell on him.

Then he straightened himself again and looked timidly at me. He was not like the man who had
bound me so cruelly in Holford combe on the Quantocks.

"Evan," I cried, "what you did for me at the ealdorman's gate is enough to win any pardon you
may need."

"It is wonderful that, after all, pardon should come from you, Thane. Do you mind how I said
to you that I hoped to win it otherwise through you when we took you on the Quantocks? It is
good to feel as a free man once more."

"Free, and maybe honoured yet, Evan," I said; for I knew that he had risked his life for me
and Owen. "Presently you shall come with me to Wessex, where none know you, and there shall
be a fresh life for you. It is in my mind that what you brought on me was as a last hope."

"Ay, that is true, Thane."

And then I asked him to tell me all he knew of Owen, and of what had happened here, and how
it came about that he knew aught. And as he told me it was plain that this was a true tale,
for one could feel it so.

He had followed Owen, keeping himself hidden, after I went to Winchester, for there he knew
that I was safe, and yet he would serve me if he could. So from the hillside where he lay he
had seen the burning and the fight; and after Owen fell he followed them who bore him away,
till he lost them in a grey mist that rolled from the hills and hid them in the darkness. Nor
had he been able to find trace of them again, though he had hunted far and wide.

And so he waited for my coming, being sure that I would not be long. But he knew that they
had gone toward what he called the lost valley, if it was not likely that they would dare so
much as look into it.

"But," he said, "there was a priest with them, seeming to lead them. Maybe he would dare."

Into my mind at once came the certainty that this must be Morfed, but Evan knew nought of him.
He had no more to tell me of this.

So we two rode on together over the wild hills, and talked of what chance there might be of
finding Owen on the morrow. He could not tell me if his wounds were deep, for he was far off
and helpless, but he told me how he had fought, and that was even as I had known he would.

Now the soft June darkness had fallen, and we were not a mile from the first houses of the
village. Soon, if they were alert, we should meet the first outpost of our men who guarded
us, and mayhap it were better that Evan came no farther tonight. Yet I would know somewhat
of himself and the way in which he had helped me thus. So I stayed my horse and dismounted
for a few minutes.

"Tell me, Evan," I said, "how came you into trouble at the first?"

"It is easy, Thane," he answered. "I was Evan the chapman, and well known near and far in Cornwall
and Dyvnaint as an honest man, even as I have seemed yet beyond the water. Two years ago I
slew the steward of this Tregoz in the open market place of Isca, and there was indeed little
blame to me, for I did but protect my goods which he would have taken by force, and smote too
hard. Little order was there in that market if the king was not there, and Morgan and his friends
were in the town. Men have taken heart again since the coming back of Owen, for it was bad
enough, as you may suppose by what happened to me. So I fled, and then Tregoz had me outlawed,
with a price on my head, so that, being well known, I had to take to Exmoor and herd with others
in the same case. I knew that no weregild, as the Saxon calls it, would be enough to save me
from the Cornishman.

"There I was the one who could sell the stolen goods across the water, being held in good repute
there, and I traded with the Norse strangers who ferried me across. So it was that when Owen
came I was in Watchet, and there Tregoz saw me and laid hands on me. Then he needed men to
carry out that which he would do, and he had me forth and spoke to me, saying that if I would
manage the Quantock outlaws for him he would forgive me and have me inlawed again. I was to
have been hanged that day, Thane, and so you will see that I had no choice. Owen's coming saved
me then."

Evan was not the first man whom I had known to be driven into evil ways by misfortune and powerful
enemies. I had little blame for him. A man will do much to save his neck from the rope. But
this did not tell me how he knew the plans of Tregoz after I set him free in Dyfed.

"Then you came back to the Cornishman after I freed you?" I asked.

"That I did not, Thane, for the best of reasons. He would have hanged me at once if he were
in power, and I had not meant to let him set eyes on me again in any case, for he was treacherous.
I came back round the head waters of the Severn, through Wessex, where I was only a Weala,
though, indeed, that is almost the same as an outlaw there; and there, by reason of Gerent's
seeking for me, I changed my looks and watched for Tregoz, for I found that he was yet about
the place in hiding. Thralls know and tell these things to men of their own sort, though they
seem to know nothing if you ask them, Thane."

"Then you wrote the letters?"

"I had them written by the old priest of Combwich by the Parrett River, who will tell you that
he did so. I took them myself to the palaces for you."

"And was it you who slew Tregoz?"

"Ay, with that seax you gave me back at the Caerau wolf's den. I heard that he had been speaking
with a sentry, and thereafter I followed him and heard his plan. I saw him change arms with
the sentry, and presently I fell on him, but the arrow had sped and I feared I was too late.
I had to cross the trench from the bushes where I was hidden."

"But the poisoning at Glastonbury?--How did you know of that?

"Easy it was to know of, but less easy to prevent. I lurked round Glastonbury until I saw the
girl, and knew that some fresh trouble was on hand for you. I knew her, for I had seen to that
at Norton, that I might learn somewhat, if I could, while she attended on the lady, the daughter
of Dunwal. She met her master there once or twice with messages, and it was by following her
that I found his hiding in the hills. It was not hard for me to get her to tell me all that
she had to do, for I made her think that I was in the plotting. Then she found it harder than
had been expected to serve you, for she was kept about the lady. So she asked me, and I told
her to wait. I thought she would most likely lose her chance altogether, and maybe but for
your staying at the gate that day she would have done so."

"It was not the first time that we have had half the household outside serving a hunting party,"
I said.

"And each time I have been there, Thane, lest this should happen. The girl told me that such
times were her only chance, and I said she had better wait for such a one again. I knew that
in the open I could in some way spill the horn, so that she would be helpless and harmless
afterward. Therefore I bade her not to try to harm you in the house, for my own reasons, but
told her that it were safer for herself to wait for some stirrup cup chance, as it were. That
day I saw that it had come, and I cut a thorn from the nearest bush and was ready. I could
not reach the girl to stumble against her."

I minded that Thorgils had said that this Evan could beguile Loki himself with fair words,
and I could well believe it. But he did not do things by halves when he set himself a task,
and I felt that but for him I should certainly have been a victim--to Mara, or to whom?"

"Who wrought this plot? Was it Mara, the Cornish lady?"

"I do not think so," he answered, shaking his head. "There is one thing that the girl would
never tell me. In no wise could I get the name of the one who gave her the poison. I do not
know where she fled to, but it is likely that it was to that one."

"Some day you shall know how grateful I am for this, Evan," I said. "Now I must go. Only one
thing more.--Where do you sleep?"

"Wheresoever I may, that I may be near you, Thane. Now meet me tomorrow at this place, and
we will go to the lost valley. After that let me serve you for good and all if I may. I can
do many things for you, and you had my life in your hand and gave it back to me; though indeed
I know that it was hard for you to do so, seeing that a thane is sorely wronged by being bound
by such as I."

"I can give you little, Evan; but I can, as I have said, find you a place in the court, whence
you may rise."

"Let me serve you, Master," he said earnestly. "I have served myself for long enough, and it
has not turned out well. If I please you not, I will go where you bid me, but in anywise let
me try."

"As you will," I said. "I owe you well-nigh aught you can ask, and this is little enough."

Then I shook hands with him and parted. It was a strange meeting.

I went back to Howel with a mind that was full of what I might find on the morrow, but with
little hope that there would be anything of sign that Owen yet lived. Howel was growing anxious
for me as the darkness fell, and was glad to greet me, and I suppose my face told him somewhat.

"Why," he said, as I stepped into the firelight on the hearth of the little house, "what is
this? Have you heard news at last?"

"I have found one who will take us to the lost valley, but nothing more. I have heard nought
fresh, but that there was indeed a priest with the men who took Owen away."

"Well, we guessed as much as that; but I tell you plainly, Oswald, that I fear what may be
in store for us in that place. Nona is not the girl to fancy things, and I know that her dreams
must have been terrible to her. And then you also--"

"I fear, too," I said. "But I do not think that anything will be worse than this long uncertainty.
Well, that is to be seen. Now I must tell you who it is that is to guide us, and maybe you
will say that it is a strange story enough. Have patience until you hear all, however."

So I told him, beginning with the certainty that I had had some friend at work for me, and
then telling him at last that I had found the man who had indeed saved me from these two dangers,
and would also have saved Owen if he could.

"Why, how is it that he kept himself hidden all the time?"

"For good reason enough, in which you have some share," I answered, laughing. "It is none other
than Evan the chapman."

"Evan!--How did he escape the Caerau wolves? I tell you that I had him tied up for them--and
hard words from Nona did I get therefore when she knew. I was ashamed of myself for the thing
afterwards, and on my word I am glad he got away. But when I am wroth I wax hasty, and things
go hard with those who have angered me. But he was a foe of yours."

"Laugh at me as you will," I said; "I made him my friend when I cut his bonds in your woods."

He stared at me in wonder, and I told him what the hunting led to. And then I also told of
what had sent Evan among the outlaws, and how he came to fall in with me.

"You are a better man than I, Oswald," he said thoughtfully, when I ended. "I could not have
let him go. I am glad that you did it, and that for other reasons than that the deed has turned
out to be of use."

Then he would hear more, and when it came to the way in which Evan had beguiled the Welsh servant
he laughed.

"Surely he laid aside the squint when he made up to her, else from your account he would not
have been welcome. But he could hardly have kept it up, lest the wind should change and it
should bide with him, as the old women say. Well, I used to like the man, and so did Nona,
and it is good to think that one was not so far wrong."

Now we thought that on the morrow we would go with but half a dozen men to the valley, if that
would seem good to Evan. If he thought more were needed it would be easy to call them to us
from the place where we were to meet him; and so we slept as well as the thought of that search
would let us, and it was a long night to me. I think it was so for Howel also, for once in
the night he stirred and spoke my name softly, and finding that I waked he said:

"I know why that girl of Mara's would not tell who set her on you. It is not like a maid to
be sparing with her mistress' secrets, and Morfed is at the back of it. It is his work, and
he laid a curse on the girl if she told who sent her. About the only thing that would keep
her quiet."

"Why would Morfed want to hurt me?"

"Plain enough is that. If you were slain, Gerent would hold Ina responsible for Owen's sake,
and Ina would blame Gerent, and there would be a breach at the least in the peace that your
bishop has made."

Then we were silent, and presently sleep came to me, until the first light crept into the house
and woke me.

In an hour we were riding across the hills with Evan, for whom we had brought a horse, and
there were fifty men with us. We should leave them at a place which Evan would show us, and
so go on with him without them. It was not so certain that we might not run into the nest of
the men who had taken Owen, though this would surely not be in the lost valley.

Many a long mile Evan led us into the hills northwestward, and far beyond where I had yet been.
I cannot tell how far it was altogether, for the way was winding, but I lost sight of all landmarks
that I knew, and ever the bare hills grew barer and yet more wild, and I could understand that
there were places where even the shepherds never went.

At first we saw one or two of these watching us from a distance, but soon we passed into utter
loneliness, and nought but the cries of the nesting curlew which we startled, and the wail
of the plover round our heads, broke the solemn stillness of the grey rocks on every side.
Even our men grew silent, and the ring of sword on stirrup seemed too loud to be natural at
last. We were all fully armed, of course.

Then we came to a place where the hills drew together, and doubled fold on fold under a cloud
of hanging mist that hid their heads, and as we rode, once Evan pointed silently to a rock,
and I looked and saw strange markings on it that had surely some meaning in them, though I
could not tell what it was. And when I looked at him in question I saw that his face was growing
pale and anxious, so that I thought we must be near the place which we sought. So it was, for
after we had left that stone some two score fathoms behind us, as we passed up a narrow valley,
there opened out yet another, wilder and more narrow still, and at its mouth he would have
us leave the men and go on with him.

Now, we had seen no man, but when it came to this, Howel said:

"By all right of caution, we should have an outpost or two on those ridges. If we are going
into this place it will not do to be trapped there."

So without question Evan pointed out places whence men could watch well enough against any
possible comers, but he told me that we were close to the place we would see, and a call from
our horns would bring help at once if it were needed. Howel sent men by twos to the hilltops,
and the rest dismounted and waited where we stayed them, while we three went on together up
the valley. I bade one of the men give Evan his spear, for he had none.

Grey and warm it was there, for the clouds hung overhead, and no breeze could find its way
into the depths of this place, and it was very silent, but it was not the lost valley itself.
And now Howel, who had not yet so much as seemed to know Evan, rode alongside him for a moment,
and spoke kindly to him, telling him that he was glad of all that I had told him, and at last
asking him to forget that which he had done to him in the woods of Dyfed. And that was much
for the proud prince to ask, as I think, and I held him the more highly therefor in my mind.

And Evan replied by asking Howel to forget rather that he had ever deserved death at his hands.

"It shall be seen that I am not ungrateful to the Thane, my master, hereafter--if I may live
after seeing this place," he said.

"Is it so deadly, then?" asked Howel, speaking low in the hush of the valley.

"It is said that those who see it must die--at least, of us who ken the curse on it. I do not
think that it will harm you or the thane to see it, for you are not of this land at all. I
have known men see this valley by mischance, and they have died shortly, crying out on the
terror thereof. Yet none has ever told what he saw therein."

Now it seemed to me that it was possible that such men died of fear of what might be, as men
who think they are accursed, whether by witchcraft or in other ways, will die, being killed
by the trouble on their minds, and so I said to Evan:

"I will not take you into this place. Show us the way, and I will go alone."

"No, Master," he said, in such wise that it was plain that there was no turning him. "I am
a Christian man, and I will not let old heathen curses hold me back, now that there is good
reason why I should stand in that place. I will not be afraid thereof."

"Is the curse so old?" I asked.

"Old beyond memory," he said. "As old as what is in that place."

"As the menhir, therefore."

"I do not know that there is a menhir, Thane. How know you?"

I reined up, and told him shortly. It was only fair that I should do so. Then he said:

"The prince is dead, and maybe that he lies there will end the curse. Come, we will see."

A few paces more, and suddenly the hillside seemed to open in a ragged cleft that made another
branching valley into the heart of the left-hand hillside, so deep that it seemed rather to
sink downward from the mouth than to rise as a valley ever will. In all truth, none would ever
have found that place unless he sought for it with a guide. I had not guessed that we were
so near its entrance.

I looked round the hills, but from here I could see not one of our men on their watch posts,
though one would have thought that where they stood it would have been impossible to lose sight
of all. We were almost at the head of the wider valley along which we had ridden.

Now I had thought to be the leader into the lost valley when we came to it, but this Evan would
not suffer. There was not room for us to ride abreast into its depths, for the narrow bottom
of the cleft in the hills was littered with fallen boulders from the steeps that bordered it,
and through these we had to pick our way. There was no path, nor was it possible to trace any
mark of the foot of man or horse that might have been there before us, and the valley turned
almost in a half circle, so that we could see no distance before us.

Now, I know that Evan had a hard struggle with his fears, but nevertheless, without drawing
rein he led on, only turning to me with one word that told me that we had found the place;
and as he turned I saw that his face was ashy pale, and as he rode on he crossed himself again
and again, and his lips moved in prayer.

Down the long curve of the valley we rode, and it ever narrowed under rocky hills that grew
at last to cliffs, and I knew that this must be but the bed of a raging torrent in the winter,
for the stones that rattled under the horse hoofs were rounded, and here and there were pools
of clear water among them. Any moment now might set us face to face with what I longed to see.

And when I saw Evan, ten paces ahead of me, straighten himself in the saddle as if he would
guard a blow from his face, and draw rein, I knew that we were there, and I rode to his side
and looked.

Suddenly the valley had ended in the place which I had seen in my vision--a rugged circle of
cliffs, in whose only outlet, to all seeming, we stood. And in the midst of that circle was
the pool of still, black water, and across that towered the tall menhir from a green bank on
which it stood facing me. All round the pool was green grass, bright with the treacherous greenness
that tells of deep bog beneath it, and then fair turf, and beyond the turf the rocky scree
from the cliffs again. The menhir was full thrice a man's height.

It was even as I had seen it. I knew every rock and patch of green, and the very outline of
the edge of the beetling crags that had been so plain to me in the dream light ere Owen called me.

But I did not heed these things at the first. My eyes went to the place where Nona the princess
had seen the sword in the long grass on the hither side of the pool's edge, but I could not
see it now. Then I must ride forward and search for it, and at that time Howel was close to
me, and together we rode yet a little farther into the circle that the cliffs made, and as
we drew closer to the edge of the pool I scanned every inch of the ground, seeking the sword
which it seemed impossible that I should not find.

"It has gone," said Howel in a hushed voice.

And at that moment I saw a sparkle among the new grass at the very edge of the bog that surrounded
the pool, and I threw the reins to the prince and sprang from my horse and went toward it.
The light was very dull here, though it was nigh midday now, and indeed so high and overhanging
were the cliffs that I do not think the sun ever reached the surface of the pool, save at this
high midsummer, and then but as it passed athwart the narrow entrance, which faced south. Then
it would send its rays across the pool full on the face of the menhir, as it seemed.

So I could see nought again until I was close to the spot whence the spark shone, and then
I caught it once more, and hastily I cleared aside the rank grass with my spear butt, and lo!
even as she had seen it in dreams the sword of Owen was there, and it was the gleam from the
gem in its hilt, which no damp could dim, which had caught my eye. But a little while longer
and we should never have seen even that, for the weapon was slowly sinking into the bog in
which its scabbard point had been set, and even as I stepped forward a pace to reach it the
black ooze rose round my foot, and Evan, who was behind me, caught my hand and pulled me back
from its edge.

Then I turned with the sword in my hand, and I saw that his face had found its colour again,
and that his fears had left him, for he had looked on the valley of the mighty curse and yet
lived. His horse was at his side, and he had sprung to help me, but I hardly heeded him, for
I had what I sought in my hand, and I held it up to Howel without a word, and a sort of fresh
hope began to rise in my heart. Owen might not be so far from us.

"How came it there?" Howel said, wondering.

"Who can tell," I answered, turning over many possibilities in my mind.

"One thing is certain," Evan said,--"no man set it in that place meaningly, for there he must
have known that it would be whelmed soon or late."

"Nor could it have been dropped there," I answered. "None would go so near the edge of the
bog. It was surely thrown there. One thought to hurl it into the pool. Yet if so he could have
done it, or would have tried again."

"Come, let us search the place," said Howel.

I hung the sword to my saddle bow, while Evan took the horses. The leather scabbard was black
with the bog water of the turf where it had been set, but the blade within it was yet bright
and keen.

Then I and the prince together walked slowly round the edge of the black pool on the broad
stretch of grass between the bog around it and the loosely piled stones of the cliffs' foot.
Here and there even this turf shook to our tread, as if it too were undermined with bog, and
we went warily, therefore, wishing that we had not left our spears by the horses.

"One would call such a place as this 'the devil's cauldron' in our land," said Howel. "I mislike
it altogether."

Then he sprang back with a start, and clutched my arm and pointed to the ground at his feet.
The skull of a man grinned up at us, half sunk in the green turf, and the ends of ribs shewed
how he to whom it had belonged lay. There went a cold chill through me as I looked; but I saw
that the bones were old, very old. They had nought to do with our trouble, and what had been
to others about the loss of him who had died here was long past and forgotten, or amended.
But for the sake of what had been I was fain to unhelm for a moment as we stepped past them.

So we went on silently until we were halfway to the menhir, and then we saw that there was
yet another way into this place, for across the water a jutting wall of rock had hidden a gorge
that had surely been cleft by water, for down it came a little stream that seemed to sink into
the turf so soon as it reached it.

"That is what fills the pool," said I, "and it must find its way hence underground like the
stream at Cheddar. The pool may be fathomless. I would that I could look into its depths."

"What may not be in yonder gorge?" said Howel. "We must go and see."

So we came to the menhir's foot, and though the bog came almost to it there was yet a little
mound of turf on which it stood, and I went to that to see if thence I could peer deeper into
the dark water, but I could not.

"Come," Howel said, "it is midday, and I for one would not be on these hills on Midsummer Eve.
Call me heathenish if you like, but this is an unlucky night whereon to walk in the haunts
of the good folk."

I had forgotten that so it was, and even now I only smiled at the prince, for my mind was full
of other things as I followed him toward the glen whence the stream came. And now I was sure
that here was growing more clearly a trace as of a seldom trodden path toward its mouth. We
passed a great flat rock, whereon were strange markings and a hollowed basin, which stood behind
the menhir near the cliff, and to this the path led, but not beyond, from the glen. Now we
were almost in the opening, when both of us stopped and looked at one another.

Surely there were footsteps coming among the rocks of the water course before us. Steep and
crooked as this was, we could hear them, though as yet if it were a man or men who came we
could not see. I pulled the prince back into cover, where the rocks hid us from any one who
came down the stream, and I loosened my sword in its sheath, for I could not be so sure that
it might not be sorely needed.

The rattle of stones came nearer, and I saw Evan hurrying to us. He also had heard, and he
had made shift to tie the horses to some point of rock, and he ran with our spears in his hand
to join us.

"Get to the other side of the pool, Thane," he said. "It may be the band of men who wrought
the burning."

"No," I answered. "Listen. Maybe there are three or four men, not more. I want to take one
if I can. He shall tell me all he knows of this place."

For I had made up my mind that one who would come here freely must needs be of those who had
brought Owen.

Then from the narrow portal of the glen passed quickly, looking neither to the right nor left,
a tall man, followed by two others, and they seemed not to see us, but went straight toward
the menhir along that path I thought I had traced, and Howel and I stared at them, speechless
and motionless, for the like of them we had never seen.

As for Evan, he reeled against the rock, and stared after them, clutching it with both hands,
so that his spear fell rattling along the rocks.

"The Druids!" he gasped. "We are dead men."

At the sharp rattle the leader of the three men turned, and I knew him. He was clad in a wonderful
gold and white robe that swept the ground, priest-like, but not that of any Christian, and
his hair was bound with a golden fillet with which oak leaves were twisted, and in his ears
were large earrings. On his bare right arm was a coiled golden bracelet, and a heavy golden
torque was round his neck, and a great golden brooch knit up the folds of his flowing white
cloak on his right shoulder. But for all this strange dress I knew him, and he was Morfed the
priest, and I heard Howel mutter the name also.

Then a word from Morfed caused the other two to turn, and they saw us, and there flashed from
under their robes--which were like those of their leader, save for golden ornaments--a long
knife in the hand of each, and they made as if to fly on us.

Morfed held up his hand, and they stayed, glaring at us. I listened for the coming of more
of his followers down the water course, but I heard none.

Then Morfed spoke a word or two to his men, and came toward us, leaving them standing where
they were, some twenty paces or less behind him, and as he came his pale face shewed no sort
of feeling of any kind. His strange bright eyes seemed to look past us, as if we were but stones
at the path side.

"So it is the Saxon," he said, staying close before us. "Well, I have waited for you, if I
did not look to see you here. And this is Howel of Dyfed. Surely a Briton knows that to break
in on the rites of the Druid is death? But Howel ever was rash. And this is the outlaw. It
is a true saying that he who sees this place shall die, Evan."

Then said Howel boldly: "Briton I am, and therefore I know that the rites of the Druid are
banned by Holy Church. Wherefore does one of her priests come in this heathen robe to such
a place as this on the eve of midsummer?"

"Seeing that none but the initiated may know what truth the ancient faith holds, it is not
for you to say that this is heathenry, Prince," Morfed answered more quietly than I expected.
"Ask yon Saxon if his Yule feast is less sacred to him now because it is not so long since
that it was Woden's. Is tomorrow less Midsummer Day because it is the day of St. John? Hold
your peace thereon, and go hence while I suffer you."

At that I glanced at the mouth of the valley whence we came, half looking to see it blocked
by men, but it was not. There was nothing to stay us three armed men in this place, with but
three against us, and they well-nigh defenceless. Morfed saw that glance and laughed.

"The Druid has other arms than those of steel," he said, and he drew slowly from the wide cincture
round his waist a little golden sickle and balanced it in his hand before me, flashing it to
and fro.

Now I was sure that he was crazed in all truth, and I would speak him fair that I might learn
what he would tell me. Howel was silent, seeming to look curiously at the golden toy in the
priest's hand, as it shifted restlessly backward and forward.

"We have come hither to pry into no ancient rites, Morfed," I said. "Tell me what you know
of Owen the prince, my foster father, and we will go hence. I have seen that which tells me
that he is near, but there are yet things that I must learn of how he came and where he lies."

But Morfed seemed to heed me not at all as I spoke. Only, he kept moving the little sickle
which Howel watched, and its glancings drew my eyes to it in spite of myself, for overhead
the sky was clearing somewhat and the sun was trying to break through, and the gold shone brightly.

"Midday," muttered the priest, "nigh midday, and what is to be done against the morrow must
be done, else will the tale of many a thousand years be marred, and by me. Lo! the sun comes,
and time passes swiftly."

The sun did indeed shine out now as some cloud passed, and I saw that its rays came slanting
through the gap in the cliffs across the pool, passing the menhir without lighting on it, but
falling now on the flat rock that was behind it, though not fully yet. Half thereof was still
in the shadow thrown by the hills.

Morfed glanced at that shadow, and his face changed, for I think that he knew the time for
some midday rite which we might not see was near, and at that he seemed to make some resolve.
He did not turn from us, but he lifted his voice in a strange chant, and said somewhat in Welsh
that I could not understand, and as they heard it his two followers placed themselves on either
side of the flat rock three paces behind him, and stood motionless. Then Morfed lifted his
arm and began to sing softly, swinging the sickle in time to the song, with his eyes on us.

I thought that maybe he would sing to us the end of Owen, as would Thorgils, but the tongue
in which the words were spoken was not the Welsh that I knew. I think now that it was the tongue
of the men who reared the menhir, and that which was the mother of the tongue of Howel and
Gerent alike. It was an uncanny song, and I waxed uneasy as it went on, and the flashing sickle
waved more quickly before my eyes.

Soon the murmur of the song seemed to get into my brain, as it were, and the sparkle of the
gold in the sunlight wove itself into strange circles of light before my eyes, widening and
narrowing in mystic curves that dazzled me, until at last I would look no longer, and with
an effort I turned my head and glanced at Howel to ask if this foolishness should not be ended.

But he shook his head.

"Let him be," he said in a whisper. "It is ill to anger a crazed man. Surely he will tell what
we need soon."

But beside him Evan seemed to be shrinking as in terror. I suppose the Briton has old memories
of the Druids of past days which yet bid him fear them.

"Hearken to me, and heed them not," sang Morfed in words that I could understand. "Hearken,
for you have much to learn."

That was true, and I turned to him. I supposed that he was in truth about to speak to me as
I would, and straightway the look of Morfed was on my face, and the song went back to its old
burden, and the flashing sickle held my eyes with its circling, and I knew that if I looked
long I also must pass as it were from myself, as had those two, and I wrenched my eyes from him.

Then a movement on the stone caught my gaze, and I saw that the two men yet stood motionless,
but across the sunlit patch which had crept nearer the centre where the hollowed bowl was,
a great adder, greater than any I had ever seen, thick and spade-headed, had coiled itself
in shining folds peaceably and seeming not to heed the men. Only its head was raised a little,
and it swayed as in time to the chant of the priest, while the long forked tongue flickered
forth now and then restlessly.

But Morfed went on with his song and his waving, seeming to try to draw my look back to him,
and I noted, as I glanced again at him, that a shade of doubt crossed his face, and at that
a new thought came to me. Maybe if he saw that I feared him not he would speak. So I looked
in his eyes and bade him be silent and hearken to what I said to him.

Some wave of anger flushed his face then, and he drew a pace nearer to me, but he was not silent,
and the waving sickle was not still. Neither of these things troubled me any longer, and I
looked past them, in such wise that he might see that I meant him to obey me, even as one will
look at a sullen thrall who delays to carry out an order given. A captain of warriors will
know what signs to watch for in a man's face well enough, and slowly and at last I saw the
look for which I waited steal across the face of the man before me, and then I raised my hand
and said:

"Be still, and answer me."

The song stopped, and the lifted sickle sank with the hand that held it, and the eyes of Morfed
left mine and sought the ground.

"What will you?" he said. "Let me go, for it is time."

"When you have answered," I said sternly. "Tell me, where is Owen?"

"In yonder pool," he said, as a child will answer its teacher.

But if he answered as a child, his face was sullen as of a child that is minded to rebel, and
I knew that he would try not to tell me aught.

"You lie," I said coldly. "Neither Christian priest nor Druid would dare set a prince of Cornwall
in an unhallowed grave. Tell me the truth."

"Ay, I lied," he said, speaking in a strange voice that seemed to come from him against his
will. And then he spoke quickly, without faltering or excuse. "I led the men who should slay
the despiser of the faith of his youth and friend of the Saxon, and we came to the house and
destroyed it, but they slew him not. Sorely wounded he was, and yet they would not do my bidding
and make an end, but murmured at me. Then they bore him away into the hills, saying that they
would heal him of his hurts and thereafter win his pardon, for he was ever forgiving, and it
is true that I told them not who it was they were to slay. I said that it was Oswald the Saxon,
who slew Morgan, and they were glad. I do not know how it has come to pass that you are here.
I hate you!"

"Speak on, Morfed," I said, for he had stayed his words on that, and I bent all my mind into
that command as it were, so that he knew that I meant to be his master in this.

"Why should I not speak," he said dully. "Let me end quickly. Ay, I went with them, thinking
that he would die on the way, for he was sorely wounded, and I mocked them and threatened them
in vain. I led them to this place, and when they knew it they fled, and left him to me. Wherefore
I brought him here, that I might see him die--I and these two carried him on the litter the
men made. Then will I bury him in no hallowed grave, for I myself spoke the uttermost ban of
Holy Church against him, for that he had herded with the men of the Saxons who follow Canterbury,
and has wrought for peace with them."

Then I knew at last that Owen was not dead, and I think that in my gladness I lost my hold
on Morfed, as it were, for I half forgot him. And at that moment there came a little cry from
one of the men who waited by the flat altar stone, and both of them looked to Morfed for some
command, as if a time had come. The stone was in full light now, and I noted that the shadow
of the menhir was creeping toward its base, but not yet quite pointing to it.

But Morfed did not answer the cry, and the great adder, roused by it, moved restlessly in its
coils, darting its long forked tongue into the hollow of the stone as if it sought somewhat.
Then one of the men who seemed the younger took from under his robe a golden flask and poured
what looked like milk into the hollow, and the creature lowered its head and lapped it thence.

At that cry Morfed started and half turned. But I had more to ask him, and I spoke sternly.
Behind me was a rattle of arms, as if Howel would have stayed him.

"Morfed," I said, "you have yet to tell me where Owen, the prince, is hidden. If you would
finish what you are about here, tell me straightway, or bid one of these men shew me, or we
will stay all this wizardry."

Maybe I spoke more boldly than I felt, for indeed the whole business and the place made all
seem uncanny. I know that my comrades feared it all.

But now Morfed heeded my word no longer. Slowly at last he turned away, and now he must needs
look back toward the altar stone and the menhir in turning, and the sight of them seemed to
bring to his mind what work he had here, so that in a moment I was forgotten, and he sprang
past me toward his attendants, one of whom was pointing silently, but with a white face, to
the shadow of the menhir. And I saw that now it touched the stone and crept up on its surface
for an inch or less.

I suppose that tomorrow that shadow would be so much shorter, and would not lie on the flat
top of the stone at all. Then for a little space the sun would seem to one at the back of the
altar to stand on the menhir's top, while all the stone and the bowl where the adder lay was
in full light, even as men say the sun seems to stand on the great stone of Stonehenge on Midsummer
Day at its rising. I had seen that wonder once, and this minded me of it.

But what Morfed saw told him that midday had come and was passing; and all that meant to him,
beyond that the time for some rite had been forgotten, I cannot tell. There came from his lips
a cry that was of terror and of sorrow as I thought, and the adder lifted its head from its
lapping and coiled itself menacingly.

He did not heed the creature, but threw abroad his hands sunwards, and began to speak hurriedly
in that tongue which I could not follow; and as his words went on the faces of his men grew
haggard, and one of them wept openly. The younger threw the golden vessel he had in his hand
into the pool, and turned on me a look of the most terrible hate, and his hand stole under
his robes as if he sought the knife I had seen him draw when they first came.

Now Howel and Evan were beside me, wondering, but spear in hand, and I was glad. There was
more than enmity in the look of these men, and one to three has little chance. Whatever strange
fears my friends had felt passed with the sight of danger.

But while Morfed spoke his followers were still, listening to him intently, until at last he
seemed to dismiss them; and then they turned from him with a strange deep reverence, and folded
their hands on their breasts, and came past where we stood, not looking at us, but with their
eyes on the ground as if they were going back, up the water course whence they came. And at
that I thought they might be going to where Owen was, and that they would harm him.

"Quick, Evan," I said; "follow them. See where they go."

"Ay, follow them," said Morfed. "Now I care not what befalls."

And with that he raised his voice and called somewhat to the men, and they quickened their
pace into the glen. I did not understand what they said in return, but somewhat in the words
of the ancient tongue they spoke was more plain to Howel, and he cried to me hastily, hurrying
after Evan.

"Guard you the priest here, and beware of him!"

Then he dashed up the water course into which Evan had already disappeared, and I heard the
feet of the four on the loose stone as they climbed upward. I had almost a mind to follow them,
for I thought that their way led to Owen, but I dared not leave Morfed to go elsewhere. This
might only be a plan to lead us astray.

So I was left with Morfed the priest, and he did not offer to follow his men, but stood and
faced me with eyes that gleamed with the fire of wrath or madness, or both. We waited, both
of us, as I think, to hear if any sound beyond the lessening footfalls came from the water
course, but they died away upward, and there was still no word between us. Then I thought that
I would try one more plan with him.

"Morfed," I said, "take me to Owen, and I will pledge my word that Gerent shall seek no revenge
for what has been done by you."

"What I have done!" he broke out. "I sought to rid the land of a foe, and that was a deed worth
doing. Know you what you have done?--Through you is ended the tale of many a thousand years.
The time is past when I, the priest and Archdruid of this poor land, should have done what
has been done, since time untold, without fail, against tomorrow's rites. That day, therefore,
through you shall be unobserved. It is strange that a mere Saxon warrior, with no thought beyond
his feasting and fighting, should set his will against mine and prove the stronger. Now I wit
well that this is some fated day, and that herein lies some omen of what shall be."

Then he turned a little from me, and looked at the shadow which had passed altogether from
the altar stone now, and half to himself he said:

"I had thought that this menhir had fallen when this came to pass. But maybe the old prophecy
meant that not until it fell we must cease our rites. But that was not how we read the words
of old time. If we read them wrong, what else have we mistaken?"

"Morfed," I broke in on his musings, "end this idle talk, and tell me of Owen. Then I will
go hence and leave you to work what you will here. I had no wish to disturb your rites, whatsoever
they were. If aught has happened amiss, it was your own fault, not mine. Your own deed brought
me here."

But he paid not the least heed to me, and yet I thought that he tried to put me off, as it
were, by seeming wrapt in thoughts.

"Surely it should have fallen on this day that sees the end, even as runs the ancient prophecy--'When
the pool shall whelm the stone, Druid rite and chant are done.' But it has not fallen, and
the end is not yet. But what shall amend this fault?"

I had listened for some sound from Howel and Evan, but since the footsteps passed up the glen
I had heard none until this moment. Then came one cry from far upward, and silence thereafter.
Morfed heard it and looked up, setting at the same time his hand on the edge of the altar stone.

The golden sickle flashed as he did so, and at that, swift as the flash itself, the adder stiffened
its coils, and its head flew back, baring the long fangs, and twice it struck the hand deeply.

"I am answered," Morfed said quietly. "My life shall amend."

But he never moved his hand, and the adder swiftly slid from off the stone and sought some
hiding place in the loose rocks at the cliff foot, and the priest watched it go, motionless.

"Look you, Saxon," he said, lifting his eyes to me; "now I must die, and with me ends the line
of the Druids of this land of the olden faith. Yonder in the Cymric land beyond the narrow
sea whence Howel came it shall not be lost. The hills shall keep it, and there the slow mind
of the Saxon shall not slay the old powers as you have slain them in me. Now I know that nought
but the power of the cross shall avail on such minds as yours, for the lore of the older days
is not for you. See! This is an end, and now you in your simpleness shall do one last thing
for me."

I saw that the hand which yet rested on the altar was swelling already, and was waxing fiery
red with four black marks where the fangs struck it. And I had a sort of pity for him, seeing
him bear this, which he deemed his punishment, bravely. Still, he had answered nothing as to
where Owen was.

"Morfed," I said, therefore--"if it is indeed the last hour for you, make amends for another
ill by telling me where Owen is, and I will do what you ask me, if it is what I may do honestly
and as a Christian."

"Grave me a cross on yonder menhir in token that the days of the Druid are numbered," he said
softly, sitting down on the stone with his head bowed, as if in deadly faintness.

Two steps took me to the menhir, and I drew my seax that I might do as he asked me. It was
a little thing, and Christian, and I thought that maybe he had come to himself from the madness
of which men spoke. Yet though it seemed long that Howel was away, and I longed to follow him,
I dared not leave this man, seeing that for all I knew Owen was somewhere close at hand, and
it was not to be known what this priest might do in his despair. Howel and Evan might be following
the men yet into some hiding place.

I set the point of my weapon to the stone and went to work, graving the upright stem of the
cross first, thinking that Morfed would speak when he saw that I was indeed doing as he asked
me. The stone was softer than I expected, and surely was not of the granite of the cliffs around,
but had been brought from far, else I could not have marked it at all. Yet I had to lean heavily
on my seax as I cut, and it was no light task, as I stood sidewise that I might not lose sight
of Morfed.

"I die," he said presently. "There will be none left who may bring back the ancient secrets
hither from the land of the Cymro. See, this is an end."

He rose up, staggering a little, and cast the golden sickle from him into the pool with a light
eddying splash, as if it skimmed the surface ere it sank, but I did not look at it, and that
was well for me. I saw his hand fly to his breast, as the hands of his men had gone for their
weapons when they first saw us, and I knew what was coming.

Hardly had the golden toy touched the water when out flashed a long dagger from his robes,
and he flew on me, thinking, no doubt, that I must needs turn my head to watch the fall of
his sickle, and I was ready for him. He was no warrior, and his hand was too high, but he was
a priest, and on him I would not use my weapon. I swung aside from him, striking up his arm,
and his blind rush carried him against the menhir, so that the blow which was meant for me
fell thereon, scoring the stone deeply; and lo! his own hand ended with that blow what I had
begun, marking the cross-beam I had yet to make, so that the holy sign was complete.

And I saw that in a flash, even as he reeled back from the menhir and staggered. His foot splashed
into the ooze of the bank and went down; and with that he lost his footing altogether and fell
headlong into the pool, swaying as he went, across the front of the menhir.

Now there was a shout and the sound of hurrying footsteps behind me, but it was Howel's voice,
and I did not turn. I leaned on the menhir to try to catch the white robes that swirled below
me, and then I felt a heave and quaking in the turf on which I knelt as I reached over the
black water, and Howel cried out and dragged me back roughly for a long fathom.

The menhir was falling. Slowly at first, and then more swiftly, it bent forward over the pool,
and then it gathered way suddenly, and with a mighty crash it fell with all its towering height
across it--and across the last flash of the white robes of the man who yet struggled therein.

For a moment the cross looked skyward, and then the wave swept over the stone, and it was gone
into the unknown depths that maybe held so many secrets of the strange rites of those who had
reared it. Only where its foot had been planted was a pit to shew that somewhat had been there,
and that was slowly filling with the black bog which had undermined the stone at last. The
old prophecy had come to pass, and there was indeed an end.

But I saw for a moment into that pit before it was filled, and in it was laid open as it were
a great stone chest, where the base of the menhir had been to cover it, and in that were skulls
and bones of men, and among them the dull gleam of ancient gold and flint.

The wild tumult of the water died away, and the ripples came, and then the pool was glassy
as before, but there was no sign of movement in it, and now it was clear no longer. And still
Howel and I stared silently at that place whence the great stone had passed like a dream.

"Nona saw it troubled," Howel said at last.

But I answered what was in my mind, with a sort of despair:

"He never told me where Owen lies."

"But I think we have found him, or nearly," Howel answered. "Come with me. This is no place
for us to bide in. Did you hear those voices?"

I had heard the echoes from the rocks after the great crash, and they were strange and wild
enough, but I heard nothing more.

"I heard one shout some time since," I said, rising up from where I still sat as Howel had left me.

"Nay, but the wailing when the stone fell," he said. "Wailing from all around. Wailing as of
the lost. Come hence, Oswald."

I do not know if the man of the more ancient race heard more than I, mingled with those wild
echoes, but I know that Howel the prince feared little. Now he was afraid, even in the bright
sunlight, and owned it.

But the first shock had passed from me, and I looked for our horses. They had gone. I think
that the fall of the menhir scared them, for they were yet tied where Evan left them, just
before that.

"Howel, the horses have broken loose and gone," I cried.

"Let them be," he said; "they will but go to the men down the valley, and will be caught there.
Come, we must get hence."

He fairly dragged me with him towards the glen, and it was not until we were out of the circle
of cliffs round the pool and picking our way among the boulders of the water course, that he
spoke again.

"That is better," he said,--"one can breathe here. I do not care if I never set eyes on that
place again, and indeed I hope we need not. Now we have to find Owen as quickly as we may."

"What of the two men?"

"One turned on us, and we slew him perforce. The other Evan has tied up safely, though it took
us all our time to catch him. I left Evan trying to make him speak."

I wondered in what way he was trying, but the path grew steeper and steeper, and the plash
of water falling among the stones made it hard to hear. We went on and on, ever upward, until
the walls of the narrow glen widened, and at last we were on a barren hillside, across which
the little stream found its way in a belt of green grass and fern and bog from farther heights
yet, and there I looked for Evan. The path reappeared here again, and it went slanting across
the hill and over its shoulder, hardly more than a sheep track as it was. And here lay the
body of the slain man.

"Over the hill crest," Howel said, noting my look around. "The man ran across this track. Did
you hear what Morfed said to them?"

"No, I heard him call, of course, but his tongue is unknown to me."

"It was the ancient British, I think. I heard a word or two here and there, but few of those
we use yet. I heard more that are written in our oldest writings, and few enough of them. But
what he said to his men was plain enough, happily. He bade them kill the captive to amend the
wrong done. I do not know what the wrong was."

I knew then that Owen had had a narrow escape, and but for the fleetness of foot of Evan he
would surely have been slain. I told Howel of what had passed while he was absent, and so we
came to the hilltop, and I saw a little below me the white robes of the captive, and Evan sitting
by him, resting on his spear. He rose up as we came to him.

"Has he spoken, Evan?" I said.

"Ay, Master," he answered, with a grin that minded me of other days with him. "He says he will
take us to the place where Owen lies, if we will promise to spare his life."

"We will promise that," I answered. "We will let him go his own way after we have seen all
that we need."

"Let me rise, then," the man said quietly. "I will shew you all."

"Do not untie his hands, Evan, but let him walk," I said. "He is not to be trusted, if he is
like his master."

It was the elder of the two whom we had before us, and he seemed downcast and harmless enough
as we let him rise, though he was unhurt. He had run on while the younger turned to stay the
pursuers, but Evan had caught him. He led us along the path, which I suppose his own feet and
those of Morfed had worn, unless it was old as the menhir itself, and on the way he said suddenly:

"Let me ask one thing of you. Has the menhir fallen?"

"Ay, with the cross graven on it," I answered; and my words checked a laugh that was on Evan's
lips.

"I knew it. I heard the crash," the man said. "That is an end therefore."

But Howel told the whole story as he had seen it take place, from the time when Morfed flew
at me, to the time when the waters were still again; and as he heard, the man clenched his
hands and bowed his head and went on quickly, as if that would prevent his hearing. After that
he said nothing.

Then the path took us round the shoulder of a hill, and before us was a rocky platform on the
sunward slope which went steeply down to another brook far below us. Far and wide from that
platform one could see over the heads of three streams, and across three hill peaks that were
right before us, and at the back of the level place was a great cromlech made of one vast flat
stone reared on three others that were set in a triangle to uphold it. Seven good feet from
the ground its top was, and each of the three supporting stones was some twelve feet long,
so that it was like a house for space within, and the two foremost stones were apart as a doorway.
And again beyond the cromlech was a hut, shaped like a beehive of straw, built of many stones
most wonderfully, both walls and roof. There were things about this hut that seemed to tell
that it was in use, and even as our footsteps rang on the rocky platform, out of its low doorway
crept an ancient woman and stared at us wildly.

"What is this?" she screamed. "How should these unhallowed ones come hither?"

"Silence, mother," our captive said. "All is done, and these men come to take away the prince."

Then she saw that he was bound with Evan's belt, and at that she screamed again, and a wild
look came into her face, and with a bound that was wonderful in one so old and bent she fled
to the cromlech, and climbed up the rearward stone in some way, perching herself on the flat
top, whence she glared at us.

"We will not harm you, mother," I said, seeing her terror.

And even as I spoke, from within the stone walls of the cromlech came the voice that I longed
to hear again, weak, indeed, but yet that of Owen:

"Oswald, Oswald!"

Then I paid no more heed to the hag, but ran into the dark place, and there indeed was my foster
father, swathed in bandages, and lying white and helpless on a rough couch, but yet with a
bright smile and greeting for me, and I went on my knees at his side and answered him.

I will not say more of that meeting. Outside the old woman cursed and reviled Howel and Evan
and the captive in turns unceasingly; but I heeded her no more than one heeds a starling chattering
on the roof in the early morning. I had all that I sought, and aught else was as nothing to me.

After a little while Howel's face came into the doorway, and Owen called him in. I saw the
look of the prince change as he marked the many swathings that told of Owen's sore hurts.

"Nay, but trouble not," Owen said, seeing this. "I am cut about a bit, for certain, but not
so badly that I may not be about again soon. The old lady overhead has a shrewd tongue, but
she is a marvellous good leech. I have not fared so badly here, and I knew Oswald would not
rest until he found me."

"Now we must take you hence," I said. "Our men wait, and we can no doubt get them here."

He smiled, being tired with the joy of seeing us and the speaking, and I went out to Evan.
The old woman still sat on the cromlech, and when she saw me her voice rose afresh with more
hard words, which I would not notice.

"Evan," I said, "how shall we take the prince hence?"

"The litter they brought him on stands behind the hut yonder," he answered; "for this man tells
me so. Also he says that we are not half a mile from our men, and that we can see one from
just above here."

So I sent him to bring them, telling him how the horses were gone, so that we had no need to
go back into the valley. To tell the truth, I was as much relieved in my mind that we need
not do so as it was plain that he was. Then when he was gone I went back to Owen, and he asked
me if we had seen Morfed. I did not tell him more than that we had done so, but that he was
not here, one of his two men having guided us, for the tale we must tell him by and by might
be better untold as yet.

"It does not matter," he said. "I cannot understand the man. At one time I think that he was
at the bottom of all the trouble, and at another that he rescued me from the men who fell on
the house. I have seen little of him here until yesterday and today. There is a man whom he
calls 'the Bard,' who has tended me well enough with the old dame, and another whom he names
'the Ovate,' whom I have seen now and then--a younger man. I have set eyes on none but these
four since the men of the burning left me to them in the hills."

We asked him how all that went, and he told us what he could remember. He had waked from some
sort of a swoon while he was being carried, in the midst of many men, and again had come to
himself when his litter had been set down. At that time there was seemingly a quarrel between
Morfed and his two followers and these men, and it ended by the many departing and leaving
him to the priest. That was, as I knew, when the hillmen would not come into the lost valley.

"They set my sword beside me," he said. "Presently in the dark I saw the gleam of a pool, and
I made shift to throw it into the water, so that no outlaw or Morgan's man should boast that
he wore it. Ina gave it me. One of the men saw me throw it, and was for staying, but the other
said he had heard the splash and that it was gone. Morfed was not near at the time, having
gone on. I heard him singing somewhere beyond the water."

"I have found it, father," I said. "It was on the edge of the pool, in long grass, and it helped
us somewhat, for we knew you were near. Now say if it is well to move you yet. We can bide
here with the men if not."

He laughed a little.

"I think so, but that is a question for the leech. Ask the dame. Maybe she will answer if you
speak her fair."

Howel went to do that, saying that maybe she would listen to a Briton, for most of her wrath
was concerning my Saxon arms. So presently I heard her shrill voice growing calmer as Howel
coaxed her, and then there was a sound as if she climbed from her perch, and Howel came back to us.

"We may take you, she says. Hither come the men in all haste also, and we may get away from
this place at once. These hills are uncanny on Midsummer Eve, and I am glad that we have long
daylight before us."

Then said Owen:

"Oswald, I have not withal, but I would fain reward the bard and the old woman for their care
of me. I think that even at Glastonbury there are none who would have healed these hurts of
mine more easily than she."

I had my own thoughts about the bard, but I said that I would see to this, and went to him.
The men were close at hand, and I saw that they led our horses with them.

"Bard," I said, "Owen the prince speaks well of you. Is it true that you would have slain him
had you not been stayed on your way?"

"I do not know, Lord," he answered. "When I was with Morfed, needs must I do his bidding, even
against my will. Yet, away from him, I think that I should not have harmed the prince. I am
a Christian man, for all that you have seen."

"There was somewhat strangely heathenish in what I did see," I said. "But I suppose that is
all done with?"

"I might go across the sea to the British lands in the north or in the south and learn to attain
to druidship," he said. "But I will not. What I know shall die with me. He who was the next
to me above, even Morfed, is gone, and he who was next below is gone also. Druid and Ovate
both. I am the only one of the old line left, and I will be the last. Call me Bard no longer,
I pray you."

"Well," I said, for there was that in the face of the man which told me that he was in earnest,
"I will believe you, and the more that Owen trusts you."

I let loose his hands then, and he stretched his cramped arms and thanked me. I minded well
what that feeling was like.

"What would Morfed have done with the prince?" I asked.

"I do not know. I have heard him plan many things. I think that if he had won him to his thoughts
concerning the men of Canterbury he would have taken him home. If not, I only know this, that
he would never have been seen in this land again. There was a thought of carrying him even
across the sea to the Britons in the south--in Gaul. But of all things Morfed hoped that he
would die here."

So I supposed, but I said no more, for Evan and the men reined up close to us. There was joy
enough among them all as Owen was slowly and carefully laid on the rough litter. And we left
those two staring after us, silent. But I suppose that the terror of that strange place will
still lie on all the countryside, and I hold that since the day when the wizards of old time
reared the menhir on that which it covered, with cruel rites and terrible words that have bided
in the minds of men as a terror will bide, no man but such as Morfed has dared to pry into
that valley lest the ancient curse should fall on them--the curse of the Druid who would hide
his secrets. It may be, therefore, that it will not be known by the folk that the menhir has
fallen, even yet, for we who did know it told them nought thereof.

As for that falling, it is the saying of Howel that it was wrought by the might of the holy
sign, and maybe he is not so far wrong in a way. For if the slow creeping of the bog had at
last undermined the base of the tall stone so that it needed but little to disturb its balance,
no wind could reach it in that cliff-walled place even in the wildest gale, and it is likely
that no hand but mine had touched it for long ages. I began, and the rush and blow of Morfed
ended, the work of overthrow, with the sign of might complete. And Evan holds that but for
the graving thereof he at least were by this time a dead man.

It was late evening when we came to the village, with no harm to Owen at all beyond tiredness,
which a good sleep would amend; and after that there is little that I need tell of Howel's
going to Exeter with the good news, and of his bringing back to us a litter more fitted for
the carrying of the hurt prince, and then the welcome that was for us from Gerent.

When we were back with him, Owen passed into the loving hands of Nona the princess, and I do
not think that he had any cause to regret his older leech of the beehive hut, skilful as she
was, for we who loved him saw him gain strength daily.

Now I found means to send a letter to Ina, by the tin traders who were on the way to London,
telling him that all was well, and begging him to suffer me to bide with my foster father for
a time yet, as I knew indeed that I might, for my new place in the household had few duties
save at times of ceremony, and in war, when I must lead the men of the household as the bearer
of the king's own banner. And as the days went on it grew plain to me that there was somewhat
amiss about the court here.

There was no dislike of myself, as I may truly say, among the men of West Wales whom I met
with, but there was a coldness now and then which I could not altogether fathom, and that specially
among the priests. It seemed that while Gerent had forgotten that I was aught but the son of
Owen, who had brought him back, no one else forgot that I was a Saxon, and that there was more
in the remembrance than should be in these times of peace. I could not think that this was
due to my share in the death of Morgan either, for it was plain that not one of his friends
was about the court.

At last I spoke of this to Howel, and found that he also had seen somewhat of the kind.

"I know it," he said. "If I am not very much mistaken, and I ought to know the signs of coming
trouble by this time, there is somewhat brewing in the way of fresh enmity with your folk.
It comes from the priests."

"There are more of the way of thinking of Morfed, therefore," I answered.

"And if that is so there may be more danger for Owen. It is well known that he is for peace,
and that Gerent will listen to him in all things."

We talked of that for some time, not being at all easy yet concerning the matter, after seeing
how far some were willing to go toward removing one who was in their way. I could not stay
here long, nor could Howel, and it was certain that Gerent could not well guard Owen up to
this time.

And at last Howel spoke the best counsel yet, after many plans turned over between us.

"We will even take him to Dyfed, and nurse him to strength in Pembroke. Then if aught is in
the wind it will break out at once, lest he should return and spoil all. Gerent will either
have to bow to the storm and fight, or else he will get the upper hand and quiet things again.
If he can do that last, at least till Owen is back, all will be well. Owen will take things
in hand then, and will be master."

That was indeed a way out of the trouble, and therein Nona helped us with Owen, so that at
last he consented. I will say that he knew little or nothing of possible trouble here, and
we told him nothing, for, in the first place, we had no certainty thereof, and in the next,
he was not strong enough to do anything against it if we had.

When we came to ask Gerent if Howel might take him to Dyfed, we found no difficulty at all,
which surprised me not a little. I think that the king knew that it was well for him to be
across the channel in all quiet.

So it came to pass that in a few days all was ready for our going to Watchet to find Thorgils
or some other shipmaster who would take us over. We could wait at Norton until the time of
sailing came, if we might not cross at once, and thence I should go back to Ina.

One may guess without any telling of mine what the parting with Owen was for Gerent. As for
myself, I was somewhat sorry to bid the old king farewell, for I liked him, and he was ever
most kind to me. But I was not sorry to leave his court, by any means, for those reasons of
which I have spoken, and of them most of all for fear of more plotting against Owen.

Now I will say that the ride to Watchet, slow and careful for his sake who must yet travel
in the litter, and in fair summer weather, is one that I love to look back on. As may be supposed,
by this time I and the princess were very good friends, and it is likely that I rode beside
her for most of the way. We had many things to talk of.

One thing I have not set down yet is, that it had been easy, after what he had done for us,
to win full pardon for Evan from Gerent. Now he rode with me, well armed and stalwart, as my
servant, and one could hardly want a more likely looking one. And Nona had some good words
and friendly to say to him, which made him hold his head higher yet after a time.

Presently, since I was on my way back to Glastonbury and onwards, we must needs speak of Elfrida,
and I told her how I had fared when I came back from Dyfed. She laughed at me, and I laughed
at myself also; for now I knew at last that the old fancy had in all truth passed from my mind.

So we came to Norton, and then sought Thorgils, and after that it was a week before he was
ready. I mind the wonder on the face of the Norseman when he saw Evan at my heels on the day
when his ship came home and I met him on the wharf; but he was glad to see him there.

"Faith," he said, "it has been a trouble to me that a man whom I was wont to trust had turned
out so ill. It shook my own belief in my better judgment. I did think I knew a man when I saw
him, until then. So I was not far wrong after all. Now I will make a new song of his deeds,
and I do not think it will be a bad one."

Then it came to pass that one day, when the wind blew fair for Tenby, I saw the ship draw away
from me as her broad sail filled, while on the deck was Owen in a great chair, and from his
side Nona waved to me, and Howel shouted that I must come over ere long and fetch Owen home.
Thorgils was steering, and he lifted his arm and cried his parting words, and so I turned away,
feeling lonely as a man may feel for a little while. And presently I looked again toward the
ship, and I think that the last I saw of her was the flutter of Nona's kerchief in the soft
wind, and I vowed that nought should hinder me from Dyfed when the time came.

Thereafter I rode to Glastonbury, and told Herewald what I thought of the trouble that was
surely brewing in the west; and he said that he also had some reason to think that along his
borders men were getting more unruly, as if none tried to hinder them from giving cause of
offence to us.

"Well, if they will but keep quiet until this wedding is over it will be a comfort," he said.
"I should be more at ease if once Elfrida was safely in Sussex."

Then I learned that the wedding was to be in a month's time or so, and already there were preparations
in hand for it. With all my heart I hoped also that nought might mar it.

Then I passed on to the king at Winchester, and glad was he to hear that we had indeed found
Owen. But as he listened to what I thought was coming on us from the west, he said:

"It is even what Owen and I foresaw with the death of Aldhelm. This is a matter that not even
Owen could have prevented, for it comes of the jealousy of the priests. We will go to Glastonbury
and watch, and maybe we shall be in time for the wedding. But I will not be the one to break
the peace. If war there must be, it must come from Gerent."

And so he mused for a while, and then said:

"Well, so it will be. And not before West Wales has tried her failing force for the last time
will there be a lasting peace."

CHAPTER XV. HOW ERPWALD SAW HIS FIRST FIGHT ON HIS WEDDING DAY.

So we went to Glastonbury in a little time, and now it was as if Yuletide had come again in
high summer, so full was the little town with guests who came to the wedding. Erpwald had come
soon after us, with a train of Sussex thanes, who were his neighbours and would see him through
the business, and take him and his bride home again. Well loved were the ealdorman and his
fair daughter, and this was the first wedding in the new church, of which all the land was proud.

Only Ina was somewhat uneasy, though he would not shew it. For on all the Wessex border from
Severn Sea to the Channel there was unrest. It seemed that the hand of Gerent had altogether
slackened on his people, so that they did what they listed, and it was even worse than it had
been in the days of Morgan and his brother, for at least they were answerable for what the
men of Dyvnaint wrought of harm. There was none to take their place here, while the old king
bided in Exeter or in Cornwall, and never came to Norton at all now. So there was pillage and
raiding across the Parrett, and at last Ina had sent messages to Gerent concerning it.

A fortnight ago that was, and now the messengers had returned, bearing word from Gerent that
he himself would come and speak to Ina of Wessex and answer him, and it was doubtful what that
answer meant. There might well be a menace of war therein, or it might mean that he was only
coming to Norton. It would not be the first time that the two kings had met there and spoken
with one another in all friendliness concerning matters which might have been of much trouble.
And we heard at least of no gathering of forces by the Welsh.

Yet Ina warned all the sheriffs of the Wessex borderland, and could do no more. The levies
would come up at once when the first summons came.

All of which the ealdorman spoke to me of, but neither Erpwald nor Elfrida knew that war was
in the air. We did not tell them. Thus we hoped to keep all knowledge that aught was unrestful
from them in their happiness, until at least they two were beyond the sound of war, if it needs
must come.

But it came to pass on the day before the wedding that all men knew thereof in stern truth,
and that was a hard time for many.

Erpwald and I sat on the bench before the ealdorman's house in the late sunshine of the long
July evening, talking of the morrow, and of Eastdean, and aught else that came uppermost, so
that it was pleasant to think of, and before us we could see the long road that goes up the
slope of Polden hills and so westward toward the Devon border. Along it came a wain or two
laden high with the first rye that was harvested that year, and a herd or two of lazy kine
finding their way to the byres for the evening milking. And then beyond the wains rose a dust,
and I saw the waggoners draw aside, and the dust passed them, and the kine scattered wildly
as it neared them; and so down the peaceful road spurred a little company of men who shouted
as they came, never drawing rein or sparing spur for all that the farm horses reared and plunged
and the kine fled terror stricken.

I think that I knew what it meant at once, but Erpwald laughed and said: "More of our guests,
belike. One rides fast to a bridal, but they are over careless."

But I did not answer, for the hot pace of those who came never slackened, and spurring and
with loose rein they swept across the bridge over the stream and so thundered toward us.

"Here is a hurry beyond a jest," said Erpwald, sitting up; "somewhat is amiss, surely."

Never rode men in that wise but for life. In a minute they were close, and one of them spied
me and called to me, waving his arm toward the palace and reeling in his saddle as he did so.
His arm was bandaged, and I saw that the spear his comrade next him bore was reddened, and
that the other two had leapt on their horses with nought but the halter to guide them withal,
as if in direst need for haste. Not much longer could their horses last as it seemed.

I sprang up and followed to the king's courtyard, leaving Erpwald wondering, and a footpath
brought me there almost as they drew rein inside the gates. One of the horses staggered and
fell as soon as he stayed, and his rider was in little better plight. That one who had beckoned
to me knew me, and spoke at once, breathless:

"Let us to the king, Thane. The Welsh--the Welsh!"

"An outlaw raid again?" I asked.

"Would I come hither in this wise for that?" the man answered.

He was a sturdy franklin from the Quantock side of the river--one whose father had been set
there by Kenwalch.

"I can deal, and have dealt, with the like of them, but this is war. They are on us in their
thousands, and I have even been burnt out for being a Saxon, by a raiding party."

"Whence?"

"From Norton," answered another of the men. "Gerent, their king, is there with a host beyond
counting. One fled from across the hills and told us, and we believed him not till the raiders
came."

With that I took the men straightway to the king, bidding the house-carles hold their peace
awhile. And even as we talked with this party, another man rode in from the Tone fenlands,
and he had seen the march of the West Welsh men, and knew that Gerent's force was halted at
Norton. A swift and sudden gathering, and a swift march that was worthy of a good leader, else
had we heard thereof before this.

After that man came another, and yet another, till all the courtyard was full of reeking horses
and white-faced men, and the ealdorman was sent for and Nunna; and in an hour or less the war
arrow was out, and the news was flying north and south and east, with word that all Somerset
was to be here on the morrow to hold the land their forebears had won from those who came.

Presently with the quiet of knowing all done that might be done on us, the ealdorman and I
went down to his house.

"Here is an end of tomorrow's wedding," he said sadly. "I do not know how Elfrida will take
it, for it is not to be supposed that Erpwald will hold back from the levy, though, indeed,
if ever man had excuse, he has it in full."

I knew that he would not, also, and said nothing. He was yet sitting on the settle where I
had left him waiting for me, with the level sun in his face as it sank across the Poldens,
and he looked content with all things.

"What a coil and a clatter has been past me, surely," he said. "I doubt there must be a raid
over the border, from what I hear the men shouting."

"More than that, friend," I said gravely, looking straight at him. "The Welsh are on us in
all earnest, and tomorrow we must meet them somewhere yonder, where the sun is setting."

He looked at me, and his face flushed redder and redder.

"What, fighting in the air?" he said, with a sort of new interest.

"War,--nothing more or less," answered Herewald with a groan.

"I am in luck for once," he said, leaping up. "Let me go with you, Oswald; for this is what
I have never seen."

"Hold hard, son-in-law," cried the ealdorman. "What of the wedding?"

His face fell, and he stared at us blankly, but his cheek paled.

"Forgive me," he said. "I never can manage to keep more than one thing in my head at a time.
Here was I thinking of nought but that, until this news came and drove out all else. Don't
tell Elfrida that I forgot it."

"Trouble enough for her without that," answered Herewald. "You cannot hold back, maybe, though
indeed, not one will think the worse of you if you do so. We must tell Elfrida what has befallen,
however, and she must speak her mind on your doings. Come, let us find her."

"Do you speak first, Ealdorman," I said, and he nodded and went his way.

Erpwald and I followed him into the hall, and there stayed. He was long gone thence to the
bower where Elfrida sat with her maidens preparing for the morrow.

"What will she say?" asked Erpwald presently.

"I think that she will bid you fight for the king, though it will be hard for her to do so."

"I hope she will, though, indeed, I should like to think that it will not be easy for her to
send me away," said the lover, torn in two ways. "How long will it take to settle with these
Welsh?"

"I cannot tell," I said, shaking my head.

For, indeed, though I would not say it, a Welsh war is apt to be a long affair if once they
get among the hills.

"If we have the victory, I think that the wedding will not be put off for so very long," I
added to comfort him.

He walked back and forth across the hall until Herewald came back, and then started toward him.

"Go yonder and speak with her," the ealdorman said, pointing to the door whence he came.

Then he went hastily, and we two looked at one another.

"How is it with her?" I said.

"In the way of the girl who helped you slay Morgan," he said grimly. "She would hold him nidring
if he had not wished to go."

We went to the door and looked out. All the road was dotted with men from the nearer villages
who came to the gathering, and as they marched, each after the reeve of the place, they sang.
And past the hindmost of them came a single horseman hurrying. Another messenger with the same
news, doubtless.

Then there were footsteps across the hall behind us, and Elfrida and Erpwald came to us. I
stole one glance at her, and saw that she hid her sorrow and pain well, though it was not without
an effort. She spoke fast, and seemingly in cheerful wise, as we turned to her.

"Father, here is this Erpwald, who will go to the war, and I cannot hold him back. What can
you say to him?"

"Nought, surely. For if he will not listen to you, it is certain that he will hearken to none
else."

She laughed a little strained laugh, and turned to Erpwald.

"You must have your own way, as I can see plainly enough; and our wedding must needs wait your
pleasure. Even my father will not help to keep you here."

"But, Elfrida--it was your own saying--" the poor lover went no further, for he was beyond
his depth altogether.

It would seem that this was not the way in which she had spoken to him when they were alone.
So I went to help him.

"We will take care of him, Elfrida," I said, trying to laugh; "but I think that he is able
to do that for himself fairly well."

Then I was sorry that I had spoken, for it was a foolish speech, seeing that it brought the
thought of danger more closely to her than was need, or maybe than she had let it come to her
yet. She turned into the half-darkness of the hall again, and after her went Erpwald. The ealdorman
and I went to the courtyard and left them, feeling that we need say no more.

Then through the dusk that horseman whom we had noted clattered up, and called in a great voice
to us, asking if we knew where he should find Oswald the marshal, and I answered him and went
out into the road to him. And there sat Thorgils, fully armed, on a great horse that was white
with foam, but had been carefully ridden.

"Ho, comrade! have you heard the news?" he said, gripping my hand.

"Twenty times in half an hour," I answered. "But is there somewhat fresh?"

"Have any of your twenty told you that these knaves of Welsh have broken peace with us, tried
to burn Watchet town--and had their heads broken?"

"News indeed, that," said I. "What more?"

"If you Saxons will stand by us, your kin, it may be worth your while. Here have I ridden to
tell you so."

Then I hurried him to the king, for this was a matter worth hearing. Watchet was on Gerent's
left flank, and a force there was a gain to us indeed, if only by staying the force at Norton
for a day longer. We should have so much the more time in which to gather the levies.

But, seeing that they were not yet gathered, it did not at first seem possible to Ina that
we could help to save the little town, whose few men had beaten off today's attack, but would
be surely overwhelmed by numbers on the morrow if Gerent chose. But Thorgils had not come hither
without a plan in his head, and he set it before the king plainly.

"Norton is on the southern end of the Quantocks, and Watchet is at the northern end, as you
know, King Ina. Between the two on the hills is the great camp which any force can hold, but
nought but a great one can storm. If you will give me two hundred men, I will have that camp
by morning, and that will save Watchet, and maybe hold back Gerent in such wise that he will
not care to pass it without retaking it. He will not know how few of us will be there, and
you will be able to choose your own ground for the fighting while he bethinks him. There is
but one road into Wessex across the Quantocks, and we shall seem to menace that while we cover
the way to Watchet."

"So the camp is held?" asked Ina. "Gerent is before me there."

"Held by the men we beat off from Watchet, King. One we took tells us that they had no business
to fall on our town, but turned aside to do it. Gerent has little hold on some of his chiefs.
Now they are there with a fear of us and our axes on them, and if we may fall on them unawares
we can take the camp without trouble, as I think."

"Oswald," said Ina, after a little thought, "how many horsemen can you raise now?"

The town was full of horses by this time, and I thought that it would not be hard to raise
a hundred, and that in half an hour. Maybe if we did go with Thorgils we should meet many more
men on the way to the levy also.

"Then you shall go with Thorgils," the king said. "It is a risk, certainly, but it is worth
it. We had held that camp, had we had but a day's earlier warning, and that loss may be made
good thus. That outlaw of yours will know many a safe place of retreat for you if need is.
Good luck be with you."

He shook hands with us both, and we did not delay. His only bidding was that we should hold
the camp until we had word from him, if we took it, and he was to learn thereof by signal.

So it came to pass that in an hour and a half Thorgils and I and Erpwald, who would by no means
let me go without him, and three of his Sussex friends, rode across the causeway to the Polden
hills in the dusk, with a matter of six score men behind us, well armed and mounted all--for
these borderers have need to keep horse and arms of the best, and those ever ready.

From the ealdorman's door Elfrida watched us go very bravely, and the glimmer of her white
dress was the lodestar that kept the eyes of her lover turned backward while it might be seen.
It vanished suddenly, and he heaved a deep sigh, and I knew that she had been fain to watch
no longer lest her tears should be seen.

As we went along the Polden ridge we met flying men, and men who came to the levy, and by twos
and threes we added to our little force, until we had a full hundred more than when we started.

Thorgils took us to a tidal ford that crosses the Parrett River far below any bridge, which
he thought would not yet be watched by the Welsh. There is a steep hill fort that covers this
ford, but on it were no fires as of an outpost yet. Then we were a matter of eight miles from
the great camp on the highest ridge of the Quantocks which we had to take, and we had ridden
five-and-twenty miles. I was glad that we had to wait an hour or more for the fall of the tide
before we could cross, for we rode fast thus far.

So we dismounted and watched the slow fall of the water, and we planned what we would do presently;
until at last we splashed through the muddy ford, and rode on through dense forest land until
the great camp rose above us, a full thousand feet skyward, and we saw the glow of the watch
fires of those who held it. It seemed almost impossible to scale this hill as we looked on
its slope in the darkness, but we reached its foot where the hill is steepest, and held on
northward yet, until we came to where there is a long steady rise up to the very gate of the
earthworks.

Now there should have been an outpost halfway along this slope toward the camp, for whatever
tribe of the Britons made the stronghold had not forgotten to raise a little fort for one.
But we were in luck, for this outpost was not held, and we rode past it, and knew that there
was every chance now of our fairly surprising the camp. The first grey of dawn was coming when
I passed the word to the men to close up, and told them what we were to do.

"We charge through the earthworks, for there is no barrier across the gate, and spread out
across the camp with all the noise we can. Follow a flight for no long distance beyond the
earthworks, but scatter the Welsh."

So we rode on steadily until we were but a bow shot from the trench, and yet no alarm was raised,
for the foe watched hardly at all, deeming that no Saxon force would think of crossing where
we crossed the river, or of coming on them from the north at all.

Then Thorgils and I and Erpwald rode forward, and I gave the word to charge, and up the long
smooth slope we went at the gallop, with a heavy thunder of hoofs on the firm turf of the ancient
track. And that thunder was the first sign that the Welsh knew of our coming.

I saw one come to the gateway and look, and then with a wild howl throw himself into the outer
ditch for safety, and the camp roared with the alarm, and the dim white figures flocked to
the rampart, and through a storm of ill-aimed arrows we rode through the unguarded gate and
were on them.

"Ahoy!--Out, out!--Holy Cross!"

The war shouts of Norseman and South Saxon and Wessex men were in startling medley together
here, and that terrified the Welsh yet more. It must have seemed to them that the Norsemen
had called unheard of allies to their help. There was no order or rallying power among them.

We three were first through the gateway, and then we were riding across the camp with levelled
spears, over men and through the fires, and a panic fell on the foe, so that without waiting
to see what our numbers were, in headlong terror they fled from the charge over the ramparts
and into the forests in the valleys on either side beyond whence we came. I had no fear of
their rallying thence to any effect, for it would take them all their time to find their leaders
in the combes and the thick undergrowth that clothed their sides. Once out of the camp, too,
they could not see into it to tell how few we were.

I suppose that there were some five hundred Welsh in the place. I do not think that we harmed
many of them in the hurry and the dark, but we scared them terribly. Here and there one rolled
under the horses' hoofs, and we paid no heed to such as fell thus, and they rose again and
fled the faster. All but one, that is, so far as I was concerned. I charged a man, and my spear
missed him as he leapt aside, and he struck at my horse as I passed him, and the next moment
I was rolling on the ground with the good steed, and the man behind me had to leap over us
as we lay. That was one of the Sussex thanes, and he was no mean horseman or unready, luckily.
Then he chased my enemy out of the camp, and came back to see if I were hurt. But I was not,
and I bade him go on with the rest. We were almost across the camp at this time.

"Take my horse rather," he said. "See, there is a bit of a stand being made yonder."

There were yet some valiant and cooler-headed Welshmen whom the panic had not carried away,
and they were getting together to our right. The camp was full three hundred paces across,
and as we spread over it our line had gaps here and there, so that some at least had seen what
our numbers were. They had passed into the camp again over the earthworks, or had been passed
by in the place by us, and they were gathering round one who wore the crested helm and gilded
arms of a chief, and he was raving at the cowards who had left him. Even now he had not more
than a score of men with him.

Our men were chasing the flying foe across the open hilltop now, outside the camp, and there
were but few left within its enclosure, though I saw the dim forms of some who were turning
back without going beyond the rampart, and one of these was Erpwald. He also saw the group
of Welshmen, and called the other horsemen to him, and even as the chief saw us two standing
alone together, and led his few toward us, the shout of the four or five who charged with my
friend stayed them, and they closed up to meet the new attack.

Then the Sussex thane, whose name was Algar, saw this, and again urged me to take his horse,
saying that it was not fitting for the leader to be dismounted while work was yet in hand;
but I saw a thing that bade me forget him, and set me running at full speed toward the Welshmen.
Erpwald had ridden well ahead of his comrades, and as his spear crossed those of the foe one
of them stepped forward before his chief and made a sweeping blow at the legs of the horse
with a long pole-axe. Down the horse came, and Erpwald flew over its head into the midst of
the enemy, overthrowing one or two of them as if he had been a stone from a sling.

In a moment they closed over him, but I was there before they could get clear of one another
to slay him. I cut my way through the turmoil before they knew I was on them, and stood over
him sword in hand, while the Welsh shrank back for a space with the suddenness of my coming.
There was Algar also hewing at them and trying to reach my side, having dismounted, and those
who followed Erpwald were on them with their long spears. It was more as a shouting than a
fight for a moment or two, but Erpwald never moved, being stunned, as it seemed. It was like
to go hard with me for a time, for my men could not reach me. Still, I held the Welsh back
from Erpwald and myself.

There was a great shout of "Ahoy," and I saw from beyond the ring round me the rise and fall
of a broad axe, and then Thorgils was at my back, and close behind him was Evan. More of our
men were coming up fast to where they heard the noise; but the foe were minded to make a good
fight of it, and only to yield when there was no shame in doing so.

"It is no bad thing to have a good axe at one's back," quoth Thorgils in a gruff shout between
his war cries as he hewed, and with that I heard the said axe crash on a foe again.

Then I had the chief before me, and his men fell back a little to make way for him to me. Our
swords crossed, and I took his first thrust fairly on the shield and returned it, wounding
him a little, and he set his teeth and flew at me, point foremost, with the deadly thrust of
the Roman weapon. That the shield met again, and I struck out over his guard and he went down
headlong. And at that his men made a wild rush on me, yelling. At that time I saw Thorgils,
with a great smile on his face, smite one man to his right with the axe edge, and another on
his left with the blunt back of the weapon as he swung it round, and Evan saved me from a man
who was coming on me from behind. That is all I know of the fight, save that it seemed that
I heard some cry for quarter, for of a sudden I went down across Erpwald for no reason that
I could tell.

It was full daylight when I came round, and the first thing that my eyes lit on was the broad
face of Erpwald, who sat by my side with a woebegone look that changed suddenly to a great
grin when he saw me stir and look at him. Then I saw Evan also watching me, with his arm tied
up, and I was fain to laugh at his solemn face of trouble. Whereon from somewhere behind me
Thorgils cried in his great seafaring voice:

"There now, what did I tell you two owls? His head is too hard to mind a bit of a knock like that."

Then he came and laughed at me, and I asked what sent me over.

"The pole-axe man hit you with the flat of his unhandy weapon. It is lucky for you that he
was a bungler, however, for there is a sore dint in your helm."

I sat up and looked round the camp. There was a knot of captives in its midst, among whom was
the chief I had fought, wounded, indeed, but not badly, and our men were eating the enemy's
provender and laughing. A fire of green brushwood and heather was sending a tall pillar of
smoke into the air to tell the watchers on the Poldens and at Watchet that we had done what
we came to do. But here we had to stay till we heard from Ina that we were to join him, and
for Erpwald's sake and Elfrida's I was not sorry.

He had seen his first fight, and nearly found his end therein. I do not know how I could have
looked Elfrida in the face again had he indeed risen no more from that medley. But I thought
that he made more than enough of my coming to his rescue. It was only a matter of holding back
a crowd till help came.

"All very well to put it in that way, comrade," said Thorgils; "but where does my axe come
in? You are not fair, for, by Thor's hammer, Erpwald, both of you had been mincemeat but for that."

"Nay," said I, laughing; "you and I were those who held back the crowd. I could not have done
it alone."

"But you did, though," the Norseman answered at once. "Nevertheless, it was as well that I
happened up in good time."

Now we rode across the nearer hills until we could see into the fair valley which men call
Taunton Deane since those days, and we saw the answering fires which told us that all was well
at Watchet, for we had saved the little town. Not until Gerent learned how few we were here
would he dare to divide his forces. Far off to the southward in the valley we could see the
blue reek of his campfires, and it would seem that he had not yet moved on the Wessex border.

All the day we waited and watched, anxious and restless, but no attack came on us here, and
the smoke of the camp grew no thinner at Norton. A few Norsemen rode up to us from Watchet,
and they said that no move was on hand yet, so far as they could tell. And at last, as the
sun was setting, and shone level on the slope of the Poldens, above which the Tor of Glastonbury
sent a waving wreath of smoke into the air to bid Wessex gather against the ancient foe, we
saw the long line of sparkling helms and spear points as our host marched from hill to causeway
to the bridge that spans the Parrett. Ina would hold the heights above Norton before morning.

But that made it the more needful that we should bide here till we were sent for, seeing that
we guarded the flank of our advance; and hard it was to sit still and do it, with a battle
pending yonder. It was a long night to us, and hungry.

Early in the next morning there was heavy smoke on these hills that told of burning on the
line of our march, and there was more away toward the far Blackdown hills, as if there were
trouble beyond Tone. And in the afternoon there fell a strange stillness on the woods round
us, and I wondered. There was never a buzzard or kite, raven or crow, left in all the woodland,
and then I minded that overhead lately the birds of prey had all flown in one direction, and
that toward where Norton lay.

It was the cry of the kite and the voice of the songbirds that I missed. The birds of prey
had gone, and in the cover their little quarry cowered in fear of the shadow of the broad wings
which had crossed them so often. Even now two of the great sea eagles were sailing inland,
and from these strange signs we knew for certain that yonder a battlefield was spread for them,
where Saxon and Welsh strove for mastery in the fair valley. But we must pace the hill crest,
silent and moody, waiting for some sign that might tell us of victory.

That came at last in the late afternoon. Slowly there gathered, over the trees where Norton
was, a haze that thickened into a smoke, and that grew into heavy dun clouds which rose and
drifted even to the hilltops, for Norton was burning, and by that token we knew that Ina was
victor.

Presently there were flying men of the Welsh who could be seen on the open hillsides, and some
few came even up to this camp, and we took them, and from them heard how the battle had gone.
It had been a terrible battle, from their account, but they knew little more than that, and
that they were beaten. I suppose that Ina thought it best for us to hold this camp for the
night, for here we bided, chafing somewhat; and but for what we took from the Welsh, hungry,
until early morning. Then at last a mounted messenger came to us, and we went to Norton.

There, indeed, was high praise waiting for us from Ina, for it seemed that our work had checked
the advance of Gerent, and had given time for full gathering of the levies before he was over
the border. But now I learnt that there was another Welsh army in the field, beyond the Tone
River, and until we heard how it fared with the Dorset levies in that direction it was doubtful
if we might hold that all was well yet. Gerent had not set everything on this one attack, but
had also marched on Langport across the Blackdown hills. Thither Nunna had led what men he
could be spared, and was to meet the Dorset levies, whose ealdorman, Sigebald, had sent word
to Glastonbury, soon after I left there, to tell of this attack.

In the late evening there were beacon fires on the Blackdown hills, and a great one on the
camp at Neroche which crowns and guards the hills in that direction. And so presently through
the dusk one rode into Norton with word of the greatest battle that Wessex had fought since
men could remember, for Nunna had met the foe on the way to Langport, and at last, after a
mighty struggle which had long seemed doubtful, had swept them back across the hills whence
they came, in full flight homeward. So there was full victory for Wessex, but we had to pay
a heavy price therefor. Nunna had fallen in the hour of triumph, and Sigebald, the ealdorman,
was lost to Dorset also.

Presently we laid Nunna in his mound on the Blackdown hills where he had fallen. There he bides
as the foremost of Saxon leaders in the new land we had won, and I do not think that it is
an unfitting place for such a one as he. It is certain that so long as a Wessex man who minds
the deeds of his fathers is left the name of Nunna will be held in honour with that of the
king; his kinsman.

CHAPTER XVI. OF MATTERS OF RANSOM, AND OF FORGIVENESS ASKED AND GRANTED.

Now I must needs tell somewhat of the way in which Ina won Norton, for that had so much to
do with my fortunes as it turned out, seeing that all went well by reason of our holding the
hill fort, in which matter, indeed, Thorgils must have his full share of praise.

Gerent halted in his march when the flying men from the camp came in to him, telling him that
we were in strong force on the hill, and so our men crossed the Parrett unhindered, and won
to the long crest of the southward spurs of Quantocks, where the Welsh gathered against Kenwalch
in the old days and stayed his farther conquest. There was some sort of an advance post by
this time in the Roman camp at Roborough, and Ina sent a few men to take it, and that was easily
done. Then Gerent heard that Ina was on him, and went to meet him, and so the two armies met
on the westward slope of the hills above Norton, and there all day long the battle swayed to
and fro until the Welsh broke and fled back to the town itself. Then was a long fight across
the ramparts, and at last Ina took the place, and so chased his enemy in hopeless rout across
the moorland westward yet, until there was no chance of any stand being made.

But Gerent escaped, though it was said that it was sorely against his will. I was told that
the old king came to the battle in a wonderful chariot drawn by four white horses, and that
he stood in it fully armed, bidding his nobles carry him to the forefront of the fighting,
but that they would not heed him. And presently when they knew that all was lost they hurried
him from the field, though he cursed them, and even hewed at them with his sword to stay them
as they went.

Now Ina's camp was set within the walls of Norton among the yet smoking ruins of the palace,
where not one stone was left on another; and the Dragon banner of Wessex floated side by side
with the White Horse of the sons of Hengist, where I had been wont to see the Dragon of the
line of Arthur.

All the afternoon of that day Ina sat and saw the long files of captives pass before him, and
I was there to question any he would, for he knew little or none of the Welsh tongue.

Many of these captives were of high rank, men who had only yielded when they must, and here
and there I knew one of these by sight. They would be held to ransom by their captors, and
the rest, freeman or thrall, as they had been, would be the slaves of those who took them,
save they also could pay for freedom. It was a sad enough throng that passed under the shadow
of the proud banners.

At last I saw one whom I knew well, and whom the king knew, for it was Jago. He stood in the
line, looking neither to right nor left, but taking his misfortune like a brave man.

"Here is Jago, the friend of Owen, whom you know, King Ina," I said.

The king glanced up at the Welsh thane. There was no pride of conquest in the face of Ina as
he gazed at his captives, and when one came as Jago came he looked little at him, lest he should
seem to exult.

"Take him, and do what you will with him, Oswald. We owe you much again; if you see others
for whom you would speak, tell me. I will deal with friends of Owen as you will. That is known
already, and none will gainsay it."

I thanked the king quietly, but none the less heartily, and I ran my eyes down the line, but
I saw no more known faces. So I went after Jago, who had passed on.

"Friend, you are free," I said. "That is the word of our king, for the sake of old friendship."

He could not answer, but the light leapt into his eyes, and he held out his hand to me. Then
I took him to the tent which my house-carles had pitched next the king's, where Nunna's should
have been, and bade him sit down there. Then I went out and brought up my own prisoners, passing
the commoners into the hands of the men who had been with me, but keeping the chief until the
last. Two of the house-carles led him up, and his face had as black a scowl on it as I had
ever seen, and he looked sullenly at us.

"Who is he?" asked Ina, turning towards me.

I did not know, and, to tell the truth, had forgotten to ask him in the waiting for news of
Nunna. So I asked him his name with all courtesy, and could win no answer from him but a blacker
scowl than ever. Judging from his arms, which were splendid, and of the half Roman pattern
that Howel wore, he might be of some note. I thought Jago might know him, so I asked him.

"Mordred, prince of Morganwg {iii}, from across the channel," he answered, looking from the
tent door. "He is a prize for whoever took him. Gerent sent word to several of those princes,
and his men are somewhere in the country yet, I suppose. They came at Gerent's invitation."

I went back to Ina, who had set the chief aside for the moment, and when some other man's captives
had passed, bound to a long cord, my men brought him forward again.

"Ask him what brought him here," said Ina, when he heard who he was.

"I have a mind not to answer you," Mordred growled, when I put the question, "but seeing that
there is no use in keeping silence, I will tell you. I hate Saxons, and so when Gerent asked
me I came to help him."

"With your men?"

"A shipload of them. They are up in the hills yonder, where you left them, I suppose; and they
will be a trouble to you until they get home, if they can. I am well quit of the cowards."

Now I began to understand how it was that this force went aside to fall on Watchet, and had
little heart in the defence of the camp. They were strangers, who hated the name of the Northmen
from their own knowledge of them, and could not miss a chance of a fight with them here. After
that the men of Gerent who were with them at the camp cared nought for their strange leader.

"Take him, and hold him to ransom, Oswald," Ina said, when I told him all this. "From all I
ever heard of Morganwg, he should be some sort of reward for what you have done. I should set
his price high also, for he deserves it for coming here."

So I took Mordred to my tent, telling him that I must speak of him of ransom.

"Ransom? Of course, that will be paid. What price do you set on me?"

Now that was a question on which I had no thought ready, seeing that I had never held any man
of much rank to ransom before, and I hesitated. At last I remembered what some great Mercian
thane had to pay to Owen some years ago, and I named that sum, which was good enough for me
and Erpwald and Thorgils to share between us.

Thereon his face flushed red, and he scowled fiercely at me.

"What!--Is that the value of a prince of Morganwg? It is ill to insult a captive."

"Nay, Prince, there is no insult--"

"By St. Petroc, but there is, though! What will the men of Morganwg--what will the Dyfed men
say when they hear that the Saxon holds one of the line of Arthur at the value of a hundred
cows? Ay, that is how I shall be known henceforth!--Mordred of the cows, forsooth."

He was working himself up into a rage now, and even Jago from the corner of the tent where
he sat, dejectedly enough, began to smile. I had spoken of fair coined silver, and I had some
trouble myself in keeping a grave face when this Welsh prince counted the cost of cattle therein.

"Will you double the sum, Prince?" I asked in all good faith.

"I will pay the ransom that is fitting for a prince of Morganwg to pay when his foes have the
advantage of him. The honour of the Cymro is concerned."

"Ask him his value," said Jago in Saxon, knowing that Mordred did not understand that tongue
at all. "Never was so good a chance of selling a man at his own price."

Then I could not help a smile, and Mordred waxed furious. He turned on Jago with his fist clenched.

"Silence, you miserable--"

"Prince, Prince," I cried. "He did but bid me ask you what was fitting."

"Well, then, do it," he cried, stamping impatiently, and glaring at Jago yet.

It was plain that if he did not understand the Saxon he saw that there was some jest.

"It is a hard matter for me to set a price on you, Prince," I said gravely. "I have never held
one of your rank to ransom before, so that you will forgive seeming discourtesy if I have unwittingly
done what was not fitting in the matter. What would the men of your land think worthy of you?"

"Once," he said slowly, "it was the ill luck of my--of some forebear of mine to have to be
ransomed. They paid so much for him."

He named a sum in good Welsh gold that it had never come into my mind to dream of. It was riches
for all three of us. And I dared not say that it was too much and somewhat like foolishness,
for it was his own valuation. So I held my peace.

"Not enough?" he asked, not angrily, but as if it would be an honour to hear that I set him
higher. "What more shall I add?"

"No more, Prince. I see that I have yet things to learn."

Truly, I had always heard that the tale of the golden tribute to Rome from Britain had tempted
my forebears here first of all, and now I believed it. I suppose these Welsh princes had hoards
which had been carried from out of the way of us Saxons and Angles long ago.

"Ay, you have," Mordred said grimly. "One day it shall be what the worth of a British prince
is in good cold steel, maybe. Now let me have a messenger who shall take word to my people
and bring back what is needed."

He scowled when I mentioned Thorgils, but he knew him by repute at least, and was willing to
trust him, as I would do so. In the end, therefore, it was he who took the signet ring and
the letter the prince had written and brought back the gold. Some of the coins were of the
days of Cunobelin, but the most of it was in bars and rings and chains, wrought for traffic
by weight.

Now I will say at once that neither of my comrades would share in this ransom, though I thought
that it was a matter between the three of us, as leaders of the force that day.

"Not I," quoth Thorgils--"the man was your own private captive, for you sent him down yourself.
What do I want with that pile of gold? I have enough and to spare already, and I should only
hoard it. Or else I should just give it back to you for a wedding present by and by. What?
Shaking your head? Well, what becomes of all my songs if they end not in a wedding? Have a
care, Oswald, and see that you make up your mind in time."

So he went away, laughing at me, but afterward I did make him promise that if he needed a new
ship at any time he would tell me, so that I might give him one for the sake of the first voyage
in the old vessel, and that pleased him well.

Now I told Ina this, being always accustomed to refer anything to him, and he was not surprised
to hear that the Norseman would not take the gold.

"And if I may advise," he said, "I would not offer a share to Erpwald; for, in the first place,
he does not expect it, seeing that the captive is yours only, by all right of war; and in the
next, he deems that you have already given him Eastdean, and he is not so far wrong. So it
would hurt him. He will be all the happier now that he will know that you have withal to buy
four Eastdeans, if you will."

So against my will, as it were, that day made a rich man of me. Presently I gave the wealth
into the hand of Herewald the ealdorman, and he so managed it, being a great trader in his
way, that it seemed to grow somewise, and I have a yearly sum therefrom in ways that are hard
to be understood by me, but which seem simple enough to him.

I handed over Mordred to the Norsemen to keep until Thorgils returned with the ransom, for
before we could rest with the sword in its scabbard again it was needful that all care should
be taken for the holding of the new land we had won, and Ina would see to that himself. Here
and there we had fighting, but the Welsh never gathered again in force against us, and at last
we held every town and camp from sea to sea along the line of the hills that run from Exmoor
southwards, and there was our new border.

Jago went back to Exeter, seeing that his house was burnt at Norton with the rest of the town,
and I heard afterwards that there he had found his wife, whom he had sent away when the certainty
of war arose. I was in no trouble for him, as he had houses elsewhere.

But we sent Erpwald back to Glastonbury in all haste, and he was in nowise loth to go, as may
be supposed. One may also guess how he was received there. Then, as soon as Ina came back with
us all, the ealdorman set to work to prepare afresh the wedding that was so strangely and suddenly
broken in upon, and it was likely to be little less joyous that it had been so.

On the evening before the wedding the ealdorman came to me, when the day's duties were over,
and said that Elfrida wished to speak to me. So I went, of course, not at all troubling that
the ealdorman could not tell me what was to be said, for there were many things concerning
tomorrow's arrangements with which I was charged in one way or another.

So I found her waiting me alone, in that chamber off the hall where her father and I spoke
of the poisoning.

"I have not sent for you for nothing, Oswald," she said, blushing a little as if it were a
hard matter she had to speak of. "There is somewhat on my mind that I must needs disburden."

"Open confession is good," I said, laughing--"what is it?

"Well--have you forgotten your vow of last Yuletide?"

"Not in the least. Would you have me do so? For that were somewhat hard."

"No--but yes, in a way."

There she stopped for a moment, and I waited for her to go on, not having any very clear notion
of what was to come. She turned away from me somewhat, letting her fingers play over one of
the tall horns on the table, when she spoke again.

"It has been in my mind that you--that maybe you thought that I have been hard on you--in ways,
since we spoke in the orchard."

So that was what troubled her, but I did not see why she should have spoken of it, seeing that
a lady has no need at all to justify her ways in such a matter, surely.

"No," I answered, "that I never thought. If my vow displeased you, or maybe rather if I displeased
you thereafter, I had no reason to blame any one but myself for the way in which it was needful
that I should be shewn that so it was. It was just the best thing for me, for it cured me of
divers kinds of foolishnesses."

"That is what I would have heard you say," she said with a light-hearted laugh enough, while
her face cleared. "Now I can say what I will. Do you know that you have kept your vow to the
full already?"

"Not at all. There are long years before you yet, as one may hope."

"Ay, Oswald, and through you those years seem bright to look forward to. See, through you has
come Erpwald, and now you have kept his life for me at risk of your own. All my life long I
shall thank you for those two things. Surely your vow is fulfilled, for this will be lifelong
service. There is more that I would say to you, but I cannot."

She turned away again, weeping for very happiness, as I think, that could not be told, and
I had no word to speak that was worth uttering, though I must say somewhat.

"It will be good to think of you two together--"

"In the place you have given us," she broke in on me. "Love and a home for all my life! What
more could your vow have wrought than that? Let me go, Oswald, or I shall weep. It was a good
day that sent you to be my champion."

Then she stepped swiftly to me and kissed me once, and fled, and I do not mind saying that
I was glad that she had gone. Too much thanks for things that had been done more or less by
chance, and as they came to hand as it were, without any special thought for any one, are apt
to make one feel discomforted.

The wedding on the morrow I have no skill to tell of, but as every one has seen such a thing,
that hardly matters. I will only set down that never had I seen such a bright one, or so good
a company, there being all the more guests present because many who came to the levies stayed
on to do honour to the ealdorman and his daughter. Elfrida looked all that a bride should,
as I thought, and also as the queen said in my hearing, so that I think I cannot be wrong.
I gave her Gerent's great gold armlet, having caused it to be wrought into such a circlet for
her hair as any thane's wife might be well pleased to wear.

As for Erpwald, he was dazed and speechless with it all, but none heeded him, though indeed
he made a gallant groom, for that is the usual way as regards the bridegroom at such times.
Which is perhaps all the more comfortable for him.

Then was pleasant feasting, and after it some of us who had been Erpwald's closer friends here
rode a little way with those two wedded ones on the first stage of their homeward journey.
The Sussex thanes and their men were with them as guard, and they rode on ahead and left us
to take our leave.

And by and by, after a mile or two, the rest turned back with gay farewells, and left me alone
with the two, for they knew that I was their nearest friend, and would let me be the last to
speak with them. We had not much to say, indeed, but there are thoughts, and most of all, good
wishes, that can be best read without words.

"There is but one thing that I wish," Elfrida said at the very last, even when I had turned
my horse and was leaving them.

"What is that?" I asked, seeing that there was some little jest coming.

"Only, that I had seen the Princess Nona."

I laughed, and so they were gone, and I went back to Glastonbury, wondering if Elfrida guessed
what my thoughts of that lady might be. I had not said much of her to any one, except as one
must speak of people with whom one has been for a while.

Strangely enough had come to pass that which I vowed to do for Elfrida, though not in the way
which had been in my mind when I drank the Bragi bowl. Presently, when I came back to the ealdorman's
house, I had to put up with some old jests concerning that vow, which seemed to others to have
come to naught, but they did not hurt me.

Three days after the wedding Thorgils came to Glastonbury with his charge, and glad enough
I was to hand it to Herewald, as I have already said, and to get the care of it off my mind.
Yet I will say that by this time there had come to me a knowledge concerning this gold which
was pleasant. Only the other day I had been but the simple captain of house-carles, though
I was also the friend of a mighty king, and foster son of a prince indeed, and that had been
all that I needed or cared for. Lately there had come a new hope into my life, and it was one
that was far from me at that time. But now, when the time came for me to go to Dyfed for Owen,
I should go with power to choose lands and a home for myself and for that one whom I dared
now to ask to share it. And that was the only reason that I cared to think of the new riches
at all. If that hope came to naught I should certainly care for them or need them little enough,
for my home would be the court as ever.

Better to me than the gold was a letter from Owen. The honest Norseman had gone out of his
way to put in at Tenby, knowing that I should be glad to have news thence, and not troubling
about Mordred who was waiting release, at all. So he had seen Owen, who was well as might be,
he said.

"With two holes in one thigh, and his left arm almost growing again like a crab's claw. I do
not think that he was in the least surprised to hear of the war, nor indeed of its end. All
he wanted to know was of you, as it seemed, at least from me. So it was also with Howel and
the princess. It was good to see their faces when I told them of the fight at the camp, and
how you won glory there. Nevertheless, I was half afraid that I made the fighting a bit too
fierce over Erpwald, for the princess turned pale enough in hearing how you were knocked over.
You ken that I am apt to make the most of things when I am telling a story. My father was just
the same, and maybe my grandfather before that, for saga telling runs in the family."

I laughed at him, but in my mind I thought of the day when I saw Elfrida pale as she heard
of Erpwald's danger at Cheddar, and I wondered.

Then I turned to Owen's letter, and it was long and somewhat sad, as may be supposed, for this
war had a foreshadowing of long parting between him and me. But he said that he had known it
must come, having full knowledge, before Morfed the priest took him, how the war party were
getting beyond control. Wherefore he saw that he and I had been saved much sadness by his absence,
and it remained to be seen how we should fare when he returned. At least, we should meet soon
in Dyfed, for he mended apace.

I need not tell all of that letter, for it was mostly between us twain. But in it were words
for Ina concerning peace, such as an ambassador from the British might well speak, and they
helped greatly toward settlement by and by. And so the letter ended with greetings from Howel
and Nona, and many words concerning their kindness to him.

But when I spoke to Thorgils of crossing soon to bring Owen back he shook his head.

"I suppose he has even made the best of things in the letter, but if he can bear arms again
by Yule it will be a wonder," he said. "Yet he is well for so sorely wounded a man."

Then he promised that it should not be so long before I heard news from Owen again, for he
had yet to make several voyages before the winter. And he kept his promise well, for I think
that he made one more than he would have done, for my sake solely, though he will not own it,
lest the long winter should seem lonesome to me.

For I will say at once that Owen did not come back by Yule. All that went on in the Cornish
court I do not know, but it seemed that Gerent thought it well that he should not return until
the last hope of victory over Wessex had passed from among his people; and it may be that he
did not wish it to be thought that Owen had any hand in bringing about the peace which he must
needs make. He would see to that, and take all the blame thereof himself, caring nothing for
any man, if blame there should be from those who set the war on foot.

So although I waited to hear from time to time as Thorgils came and went, getting also word
from him when some Danish ship crossed to Watchet, nought was said of Owen's return. And I
was not sorry, for as things went I could not have gone to Dyfed to meet him.

There was the new land we had won to be tended, and for a time the planning for that was heavy
enough. All men know now how it ended in the building of the mighty fortress of Taunton at
the southern end of the Quantock hills, to bar the passage from West to East for all time.
There is no mightier stronghold in all England than this, at least of those built by Saxon
hands, and there has been none made like it since Hengist came to this land. It stands some
two miles from where the Romans set Norton, for they had the same need to curb the wild British
as have we, and the place they chose for their ways of warfare needed little amending for ours.

While that was building, Ina dwelt in the house of some great British lord at the place we
call South Petherton, not far off from the fortress. As the place pleased him, presently he
had a palace built there for himself, which, as it turned out, Ethelburga the queen never liked
at all. However, that came about in after years. All day long now he was at Taunton, taking
pride in overseeing all, so that there is no wonder that the place is strong.

As for me, I was with Herewald the ealdorman on the new boundary line with the levies and the
king's own following, guarding against any new attack, and trying to win the Welsh to friendship.
That was mostly my work, as I knew the tongue, and they knew me as Owen's foster son. We had
some little trouble with them for a time, but soon, as they came to know the justice of the
king, and that he did not mean to drive them from the land, they became content, and indeed
there were many who welcomed a strong hand over them.

Presently there would be Saxon lords over the manors as Ina found men to hold them, but there
would be no change beyond that. Freeman should be freeman, and thrall thrall, as before, each
in his old holding undisturbed, with equal laws for Saxon and Briton alike.

Now, one day when I came to the house of the king at Petherton on some affairs I needed his
word concerning, presently there came a message to me that Ethelburga the queen would speak
with me, and, somewhat wondering, I was taken to her bower, and found her waiting for me.

"Oswald," she said, after a few words of greeting, "there is one who wronged you once, and
has come to ask for your forgiveness. What answer shall I give?"

"Lady," I said, "I can remember none who need forgiveness from me now. Those who wrought ill
against Owen have it already, or are gone. I have no foes, so far as I know, myself, and truly
no wrongs unforgiven."

"Nay, but there is this one."

"Why then, my Queen, that one must needs be forgiven, seeing that I know not of wrong to me."

I laughed a little, thinking of some fault of a servant, or of a man of the guard, of which
she had heard. But she went to a settle hard by and swept aside a kerchief which lay on it
as if by chance, and under it were two war arrows. And I knew them at once for those which
had been shot into our window at Norton and had vanished.

Now I will say that the sight of these brought back at once some of the old feeling against
those who, like Tregoz, had sought Owen's life and mine, and my face must needs show it.

"Ay," the queen said, seeing that, "these are indeed a token that forgiveness is needed."

Then I remembered that there was but one who could come here with these arrows, though how
she had them I could not do more than guess. It could be none other than Mara, the daughter
of Dunwal.

Then suddenly, from among the ladies at the end of the room, one who was dressed in black rose
up and came toward me, and she was none other than Mara herself, thin and pale indeed, and
with the pride gone from her dark face. Her voice was very low as she spoke to me, and her
bright black eyes were dim with tears.

"I do not ask you to forgive my uncle, or indeed my father--for what they planned and well-nigh
wrought is past forgiveness," she said, "Forget those things if it be possible, but forgive
my part in them."

"I have done that long ago, lady," I said in all truth.

I knew that she must have been made use of by the men in some ways, but I did not think at
all that she had wished ill as they wished it, since I knew that Morfed had trained the Welsh
girl to the deed at Glastonbury.

"Ay," she said sadly. "But forgetfulness is not forgiveness. You do not know how I carried
messages between my father and uncle, when one was in bondage and the other in hiding, so that
their plans were laid through me. I am guilty with them. Therefore I would hear you say at
least that you will try to forgive before I pass from the world into the cloister where I may
pray for them, and for you also, if I may."

Then I said, with a great pity on me for this lady whom I had known so proud and careless:

"Lady, I do forgive with all my heart. I do not think that you could have stood aloof from
your father, and I do not think that you are so much to blame in all the trouble as you would
seem to make me believe. In all truth I do forgive."

She looked searchingly at me while I spoke, and what she saw in my face was enough to tell
her that she had all she needed, and with one word of thanks she went back to the ladies, and
one of them took her from the room.

"She goes into my new nunnery at Glastonbury tomorrow, Oswald," the queen said, "and now she
will rest content. It was a good chance that brought you here today, my Thane, for she had
begged me to send for you, and that I could hardly do, seeing that one knows not where to find
you from day to day. I could tell her truly that I knew I could win your forgiveness: but that
would not have been enough for her, I think."

So Mara passed into the nunnery, and unless she has been one of the veiled sisters whom one
sees in their places at the time of mass, I do not know that I have ever set eyes on her again.
I do not think that it was the saddest end for her.

All that winter, and through the spring, men toiled at the great fortress, but Ina went back
presently to Glastonbury, or to others of his houses, after his wont, now and then riding even
from far to us to see how all went. And I was fully busy in the new province, for we made a
roll of those who owned land there, that all might be known to the king, and that matter was
set in my hand for those reasons which had made me useful already in quieting the country.
Moreover, the years at Malmesbury had made me able to write well, and now I was glad that I
had learnt, though indeed it went sorely against the grain with me to do so at the time. Truly,
I had to go on this errand of the king's with sword in one hand and pen in the other, but I
daresay I did better, and fared less roughly, than would one who could not speak to the British
freemen in their own tongue. At least, if a man was sullen when I came to him, he was, as a
rule, pretty friendly when I left, for he knew that no harm was meant him, and that to be on
this roll meant that on his lands he was to bide in peace.

And I may not forget that Evan helped me greatly in the matter, for he knew almost all of the
best freemen.

When the walls were strong, in the midst of the new fortress they built a good house for Ina,
and we thought that he meant to live here at times, for he had it fully furnished, even to
the rushes on the floor, after Easter. By that time I had leisure to spend the holy season
with the court at Glastonbury, for there was peace everywhere. And there I had a visit from
Thorgils, who brought good news from across the sea. He had made his first voyage of the year,
and had seen Owen, who was himself again, if yet weak.

He had not written to me, but sent word by the Norseman that he did but wait for me to come
for him, if I might. If not he would come alone; but it seemed to him that we should have to
part when we reached this side of the channel, for he must go to Gerent at once.

Next day Ina and the queen must needs pass to Taunton to see the place, for he said that when
I might go for Owen depended on its readiness. So we rode with but a small train, meaning,
after seeing the fortress, to go on to Petherton for the night, which was quite a usual plan
with the king nowadays, since all this building was on hand.

So we went round all the walls, and saw the new bridge across the Tone River, and then went
into the hall that stood, as I have said, within the walls of the fortress itself. There all
was ready for the king, even to a fire on the hearth in the middle of the great hall, which
was fully as large as that at Glastonbury itself. I had not seen this house of late, and now
the king would have me go all over it and tell him what I thought thereof.

Indeed, there was nought to say of it but good, for it would be hard to find one better planned
in all Wessex, as I think, whether in the house itself, or about the buildings that were set
along its walls without for the thralls and workshops, or in the stables and other outhouses.
It was indeed such a house as any thane would be proud to hold as his home.

Presently, therefore, after seeing all, the king and queen and I stood by the hearth in the
hall again, and Ina asked me my thoughts of it. And I told him even as I have written, that
all was well done and completely.

"Why, then," he said, "let me come and stay here now and then."

I laughed at that.

"I have heard, my King, of house-carles who led their masters, but that is not our way. Where
the king goes the household follows, in Wessex."

He laughed also, for a moment.

"Long may it be so," he said. "Nevertheless, I think that I shall have to be as a guest here
now and then."

Then Ethelburga smiled at my puzzled face, and spoke in her turn.

"Why, Oswald, it seems to me that you are the only man in all Wessex who does not know who
is to live here."

"It is always said that the king himself will make it one of his palaces, lady," I answered.

Then Ina set his hand on my shoulder, and made no more secret of what he meant.

"I want you to bide here, my Thane, and hold this unquiet land for me. There is not one who
can better rule it from this fortress for me than yourself; and the house and all that is in
it is yours, if you will."

Then for a moment came over me that same feeling of loneliness that had kept me from taking
Eastdean again, and with it there was the thought that I was not able to take so great a charge
on me.

"How can I do this, my King?" I said, not knowing how to put into words all that I felt. "I
am not strong enough for such a post."

"Nay," he said gravely. "It is said of me that I do not do things hastily, and it is a true
word enough, seeing that I know that I often lose a chance by over caution, maybe. Answer me
a question or two fairly, and I think you will see that I may ask you to bide here."

Then he minded me that I alone of all his athelings knew this Welsh tongue as if born thereto,
and also that men knew me as the son of Owen the prince, so that the Welsh would hardly hold
me as a stranger. That I had found out in these last months while I had been numbering the
freemen and their holdings; and as I went about that business I had seen every one that was
of any account, so that already I knew all the land I had to rule better than any other. That
task, however, had been set me, as I know now, in preparation for this post.

I had no answer to make against all this concerning myself, for it was true enough, but I did
not speak at once. It did not follow that I could rule as I should, even with all this to help
me, and I knew it.

"What, is more needed?" Ina said. "Well, I at least have had a letter from Owen by the hand
of Thorgils yesterday. See what is written in it."

He set the writing in my hand, and turned away while I read it. It was meant for my sight as
well as his, for he had written to Owen concerning this post for me. And after I had read it
all I could say no more, for Owen told how he would help me in all ways possible, and also
that he knew how Gerent himself would be more content in knowing that no stranger was to be
over the land he had lost.

So I gave the letter back to the king's hand, and said plainly: "I think that I may not hold
back from what you ask me, my King, after all that Owen says. Nevertheless I--"

"But I am certain that you will do well," said Ina. "Now I shall miss my captain about the
court, but I need him here. So you must even stay. There is Owen on the west to help you keep
the peace in one way, and Herewald on the east to help you with the levies if need be. Fear
not, therefore. It is in my mind that you will have an easier time here than any other I could
have bethought me of, if I had tried."

Then, as in duty bound, I knelt and kissed the hand of the king in token of homage, and he
smiled at me contented.

"You will be the first ealdorman of Devon, Oswald, when the Witan meets," he said; for it needed
the word of the council of the thanes to give me the rank that was fitting.

Then when I rose up and stood somewhat mazed with the suddenness of it all, Ethelburga the
queen, who had stood by smiling at me now and then, said: "This is your hall, Oswald, remember.
But it needs one thing yet. You were wrong when you said it was complete."

I looked round and saw nothing wanting, from the hangings on the wall to the pile of skins
on the high place seats.

"There are the pegs for the arms of the house-carles," I said, "but no arms thereon yet. That
will soon be mended. And I have to set up a head or two of game, to make all homely, maybe?"

"More than that, Oswald," she said, laughing. "Strange how dense a man can be! It is a mistress
who is needed. Else the women of Devon will have no friend at court."

I laughed, a little foolishly, perhaps, not having any answer at all, and Ina smiled and went
out into the court by himself, saying that he would not meddle with such matters. So I was
left to the queen by the hearth.

"Jesting apart, Oswald," she said, "I had hoped that vow of yours would have led to somewhat,
and whose fault it was that nought came of it I do not know. However, no harm seems to have
been done, and that may pass, though indeed Elfrida was a favourite of mine. But see to it
that next time you are no laggard. Now, when are you going to Dyfed?"

Then I suppose my face told some tale against me, for the queen laughed softly.

"Soon, Oswald?"

I could not pretend to misunderstand her then, but when it was put to me so plainly it did
not seem to me all so certain that my suit would fare better than my vow. I had no fear once
that the last would not have been welcome, and was mistaken enough. Now, perhaps because I
was in real earnest, I did doubt altogether.

"What, do you fear that there is no favour for you, my Thane?" Ethelburga said, with a smile
lingering round the corners of her mouth.

"I do not see how there can be," I answered. "I am not worthy. It is one thing for the princess
to be friendly with me, and another for her to suffer me to look so high."

I spoke plainly to the queen, as I was ever wont since I was a child in her train and she the
kindly lady to whose hand I looked for all things, and from whom all my earlier happinesses
had come. She was ever the same, and I know well that her name will be remembered as one of
our best hereafter. It was almost therefore as mother to son that she spoke to me, rather than
as mistress to servant.

"But you had no doubts at all concerning Elfrida."

"That was foolishness, my Queen, and I see it now. This is different altogether."

"I know it, and it was my fault in a way. Still, you were then but the landless house-carle
captain, and yet you dared to look up to the daughter of the ealdorman. Now you are the Thane
of Taunton, and to be the first ealdorman of Saxon Devon, with house and riches at your back,
moreover. And she of whom you think is but the daughter of a Welsh princelet."

"Nay, my Queen, but she is Nona."

"Go your ways, Oswald," the queen said, laughing--"of a surety you are in earnest this time.
Nay, but I will jest no more, and will wish you all speed to Pembroke. If there is no welcome,
and more, for you there, I am mistaken, for you deserve all you wish."

So we spoke no more, but joined the king. Presently, when I came to think of what the queen
had said of my changed rank and all that, I saw that she was right, and it heartened me somewhat.
Not that I thought it would make any difference to Nona, but that it surely must to Howel,
which was a great matter after all.

In a week Ina gathered the Witan of Somerset here to Taunton, first that the last stone of
the fortress should be laid with all solemnity and due rites, even as the foundation had been
laid with the blessing of Holy Church on it, and then that he might take counsel for the holding
of the new land. Then in full Witan I did homage and took the oaths that were fitting, and
so the king girt my sword on me afresh as I sat at the foot of his throne as the first ealdorman
of Devon; and the Witan confirmed his choice, also making sure to me all dues that should come
to the man who held the rank. They seemed well satisfied with the king's choice of me, and
that was a good thing, for I will say that I had somewhat feared jealousy here and there. I
do not think that their approval was due to any special merit of my own at all, but it was
plain that I stood in a halfway place, as it were, between the two courts in a way that was
in itself enough to make the choice good policy.

After that Ina bade me go to Dyfed, while he was yet in the west, and would set all things
in train for me, choosing my house-carles, and setting such men as I could work well with in
places of trust in the land. There was much for the king to do yet.

"Therefore take what time you will, Oswald," he said kindly. "You will be busy enough when
you come back, and I can trust you not to overstay your time. If Owen can come to speak with
me bring him, but that is doubtful yet."

One may suppose that I did not delay then. I sent Evan to Thorgils, and asked him to give me
a passage over, and so had a fortnight to wait for him, as he was on his way from some voyage
westward at the time. Then a fair summer sailing and a welcome from the Danefolk at Tenby,
where we put in rather than make for the long tidal waters of Milford Haven against a southwest
breeze.

There the Danes must needs set themselves in array in all holiday gear that I might ride to
Pembroke as a prince's foster son, with a better following than Evan and my half-dozen house-carles,
and I rode with fifty men after me, so that the guard at the palace gates might have thought
that Ina himself had come to see Owen, and there was bustle of welcome enough.

And so there were wonderful greetings for me, from Owen first, and afterward from Howel and
from Nona, and I will not say much of them. If one knows what it is to see a father whom one
had left weak and ill, strong and well and fully himself again; if one has met a good friend
after absence; if one knows what it may be to see again the one who is dearest in thought,
there is no need for me to try and tell the greeting, and if not, I could not make it understood.
Let it be therefore. It was all that I looked for, and I was more than content.

And yet, for all that, it was a long week before I dared to tell Nona that which I would, and
how I did so is another thing that I cannot set down. Maybe all that I need say is that I need
not have feared, and that the new hall at Taunton waited for its mistress from that hour forward.

And so at length I knew that I must be away, and I rode to Tenby to see Thorgils, and found
him in the haven, begrimed and happy, with men and boys round him at work on the ship everywhere,
painting and scraping in such wise that I hardly knew her. From stem to stern she was bright
green instead of her sea-stained rusty black, and a broad gilt band ran along her side below
the oar ports. A great red and gold dragon from one of the warships of the Danes reared its
crest on the stem head, while its tail curved in red and gold over the stern post, and even
the mast was painted in red and white bands, and had a new gilt dog vane at its head.

"Here is finery, comrade," I said. "What is the meaning thereof?"

"Well, if you know not, no man knows. I have a new coat for tomorrow's wedding, and it is only
fit that the ship that takes home the bride should have one also. Wherefore the old craft will
be somewhat to sing about by the time I have done with her."

Then he showed me a new red-striped sail that Eric had given him, and an awning for the after
deck which the women of the town had wrought for the shelter of the princess whom they loved.
It seemed like a good speeding to Nona and to me.

And so it was at the end of a fortnight thereafter. It would be long to tell of the morrow's
wedding, and then of days at Pembroke before we sailed, passed all too quickly for me. But
at last we stood with Owen on the deck of the good ship while all the shore buzzed with folk,
Welsh and Danish alike, who watched us pass from Dyfed to the Devon coast, cheering and waving
with mighty goodwill, and only Howel seemed lonely as he sat on his white horse, still and
yet smiling, with his men round him, where the cliff looks over the inner harbour, to see the
last for many days of the daughter he had trusted to my keeping.

We cleared the harbour, and then where she had been lying under the island flew toward us under
thirty oars the best longship that Eric owned, for it was his word that as the Danes had seen
me into Pembroke by land, so they would see Nona from the shore with a king's following by
sea, and that was well done indeed. The old chief himself was steering in full arms, and all
the rowers were in their mail and helms, flashing and sparkling wondrously in the sun as they
swung in time to the rowing song as they came. And all down the gangway amidships between the
rowers stood the armed men who should take their places when their turn came, full sixty warriors,
well armed and mail clad as if they had need to guard us across the sea.

I suppose that there is no more wonderful sight than such a ship as this, fresh from her winter
quarters, and with her full crew of three men to an oar in all array for war, and Owen and
I gazed at her in all delight. As for my princess, she had more thought for the kindliness
of the chief in thus troubling himself and his men, I think, for she could not know the pleasure
it gave each man of the Danes to feel his arms on him and the good ship swinging under him
again after long months ashore.

"There is another ship in the offing," I said to Thorgils presently, when we, with the Dane
just astern of us, were some five miles from land and had ceased to look back to Tenby. Nona
had gone into the cabin away from the wind, which came a little chill from the east on the
open sea, and maybe also that she felt the chill of parting from her father more than she would
have us know.

"Ay," he said, looking at the far vessel under his hand, "I do not make out what she is--but
if she is a trader--well, our Danes are likely to get some reward for their trouble. They will
not have come out for nothing."

I laughed, for any trader in the Severn sea knew that he must be ready to pay more than harbour
dues if he had the ill luck to meet with the Danes. They would make him pay for freedom, but
would not harm him unless he was foolish enough to fight.

So we held on, and the strange sail, which was seemingly beating up channel against the wind,
put about and headed for us somewhat sooner than Thorgils expected.

"She is making mighty short boards," he said. "She should surely have headed over to the coast
yet awhile. Would have fetched a bit of a breeze off the land there, maybe."

Thorgils watched this vessel curiously, for there were things about her which seemed to puzzle
him. The men, too, were beginning to talk of her and watch her. And presently I saw that our
consort, the Dane, had slackened her speed, so that there was a mile of water between us astern.

"Oh ay," said Thorgils, as I spoke of this, "they mean to pick her up when we have passed her.
They can overhaul her as they like."

Now we drew near to the strange ship, and it seemed to Owen and me, as we stood side by side
on the after deck beside Thorgils at the helm, that we saw here and there among the men on
her deck the sparkle of arms as she lifted and swayed to the waves. She was a long black ship,
not like the Dane at all, and her sail was three cornered on a long tapering yard, quite unlike
ours, which was square. Thorgils said that she was a trader from the far south, a foreigner,
even from so far as Spain, though why she was here he could not tell. Mostly such never came
round the Land's End.

"She wants to speak with us," he said presently. "I suppose she has lost herself in strange
waters."

