The ruling spirit within the city at that time was Ansgar or Esegar the "Staller" under whom,
as Sheriff of Middlesex, the citizens had marched out to fight around the royal standard at
Hastings. He had been carried wounded from the field, and was now borne hither and thither
on a litter, encouraging the citizens to make a stout defence of their city. To him, it is
said, William sent a private message from Berkhampstead, asking only that the Conqueror’s right
to the crown of England might be acknowledged and nothing more, the real power of the kingdom
might remain with Ansgar if he so willed. Determined not to be outwitted by the Norman, Ansgar
(so the story goes) summoned a meeting of the eldermen (natu majores) of the City—the forerunners
of the later aldermen—and proposed a feigned submission which might stave off immediate danger.
The proposal was accepted and a messenger despatched. William pretended to accept the terms
offered, and at the same time so worked upon the messenger with fair promises and gifts that
on his return he converted his fellow citizens and induced them by representations of the Conqueror’s
friendly intentions and of the hopelessness of resistance, to make their submission to him,
and to throw over the young Atheling.

(M54)

Whatever poetic tinge there may be about the story as told by Guy of Amiens, it is certain
that the citizens came to the same resolution, in effect, as that described by the poet, nor
could they well have done otherwise. The whole of the country for miles around London, had
already tendered submission or been forced into it. The city had become completely isolated,
and sooner or later its inhabitants must have been starved out. There was, moreover, a strong
foreign element within its walls.(79) Norman followers of Edward the Confessor were ever at
hand to counsel submission. London submitted, the citizens accepting the rule of the Norman
Conqueror as they had formerly accepted that of Cnut the Dane, "from necessity." An embassy
was despatched to Berkhampstead, comprising the Archbishop of York, the young Atheling, the
earls Edwine and Morkere, and "all the best men of London," to render homage and give hostages,(80)
and thus it was, that within three months of his landing, William was acknowledged as the lawfully
elected King of England, and, as such, he crowned himself at Westminster, promising to govern
the nation as well as any king before him if they would be faithful to him.

(M55)

The conciliatory spirit of William towards the Londoners is seen in the favourable terms he
was ready to concede them. Soon after his coronation— the precise date cannot be determined—he
granted them a charter,(81) by which he clearly declared his purpose not to reduce the citizens
to a state of dependent vassalage, but to establish them in all the rights and privileges they
had hitherto enjoyed.

The charter, rendered into modern English, runs as follows:—

"William, King, greets William, Bishop, and Gosfregdh, Portreeve, and all the burgesses within
London, French and English, friendly. And I give you to know that I will that ye be all those
laws worthy that ye were in King Eadward’s day.(82) And I will that every child be his father’s
heir after his father’s day and I will not suffer that any man offer you any wrong. God keep you."

The terms of the charter are worthy of study. They are primarily remarkable as indicating that
the City of London was, at the time, subject to a government which combined the secular authority
of the port-reeve with the ecclesiastical authority of the bishop. It was said, indeed, to
have been greatly due to the latter’s intercession that the charter was granted at all, and,
in this belief, the mayor and aldermen were long accustomed to pay a solemn visit to the bishop’s
tomb in St. Paul’s church, there to hear a De profundis on the day when the new mayor took
his oath of office before the Barons of the Exchequer.(83)

(M56)

As regards the port-reeve—the port-gerefa, i.e., reeve of the port or town of London(84)—the
nature and extent of his duties and authority, much uncertainty exists. Whilst, in many respects,
his position in a borough was analogous no doubt to the shire-reeve or sheriff of a county,
there were, on the other hand, duties belonging to and exercised by the one which were not
exercised by the other. Thus, for instance, the port-reeve, unlike the sheriff, exercised no
judicial functions in a criminal court, nor presided over court-leets in the city as the sheriff
did in his county by turn, the latter being held independently by the alderman of each ward.(85)

(M57) (M58) (M59)

In the next place the charter brings prominently to our notice the fact that there was already
existing within the City’s walls a strong Norman element, existing side by side with the older
English burgesses, which the Conqueror did well not to ignore. The descendants of the foreign
merchants from France and Normandy, for whose protection Ethelred had legislated more than
half a century before, had continued to carry on their commercial intercourse with the Londoners,
and were looking forward to a freer interchange of merchandise now that the two countries were
under one sovereign. Their expectation was justified. Here there is distinct evidence that
the Conqueror had come "neither to destroy, nor to found, but to continue."(87) The charter
granted nothing new; it only ratified and set the royal seal(88) to the rights and privileges
of the citizens already in existence.

(M60)

It is recorded that William granted another charter to the citizens of London, vesting in them
the City and Sheriffwick of London, and this charter the citizens proffered as evidence of
their rights over the cloister and church of St. Martin le Grand, when those rights were challenged
in the reign of Henry VI.(89) This charter has since been lost.

(M61)

The compact thus made between London and the Conqueror was faithfully kept by both parties.
Having ascended the English throne by the aid of the citizens of London, William, unlike many
of his successors, was careful not to infringe the terms of their charter, whilst the citizens
on the other hand continued loyal to their accepted king, and lent him assistance to put down
insurgents in other parts of the kingdom. The fortress which William erected within their city’s
walls did not disturb their equanimity. It was sufficient for them that, under the Conqueror’s
rule, the country was once more peaceful, so peaceful that, according to the chronicler, a
young maiden could travel the length of England without being injured or robbed.(90)

(M62)

The close of the reign of William the First witnessed the completion of "Doomsday," or survey
of the kingdom, which he had ordered to be made for fiscal purposes. For some reason not explained,
neither London nor Winchester—the two capitals, so to speak, of the kingdom—were included in
this survey. It may be that the importance of these boroughs, their wealth and population,
necessitated some special method of procedure; but this does not account for the omission of
Northumberland, Cumberland, Westmorland, and Durham, from the survey. We know that Winchester
was afterwards surveyed, but no steps in the same direction were ever taken with respect to
London. The survey was not effected without disturbances, owing to the inquisitorial power
vested in the commissioners appointed to carry it out.

(M63)

William died whilst on a visit to his duchy of Normandy, and "he who was before a powerful
king, and lord of many a land, had then of all his land, only a portion of seven feet."(91)
the same which, to this day, holds his mortal remains in the Abbey at Caen. He was succeeded
by William his son. The death of the father and accession of his son was marked by fire, pestilence,
and famine.(92)

(M64)

A fire destroyed St. Paul’s and the greater part of the City. Maurice, Bishop of London, at
once set to work to rebuild the Cathedral on a larger and more magnificent scale, erecting
the edifice upon arches in a manner little known in England at that time, but long practised
in France. The Norman Conquest was already working for good. Not only the style of architecture,
but the very stone used in re-building St. Paul’s came from France, the famous quarries of
Caen being utilised for the purpose.(93)

There was already in the city, one church built after the same manner, and on that account
called St. Mary of Arches or "le Bow."  The object of setting churches and other buildings
upon vaults was to guard against fire. Whatever defence against fire this method of building
may have afforded, it was certainly no defence against wind. In 1091, the roof of St. Mary-le-Bow
was clean blown off, huge baulks of timber, 26 feet long, being driven into the ground with
such force that scarce 4 feet of them could be seen.(94)

(M65)

The reign of the new king was one of oppression. Nevertheless, he continued to secure that
protection for life and property which his father had so successfully achieved, so that a man
"who had confidence in himself" and was "aught," could travel the length and breadth of the
land unhurt, "with his bosom full of gold."(95) He also had an eye for the protection of the
city, and the advancement of its commerce, surrounding the Tower of London by a wall, and repairing
the bridge which had been nearly washed away by a flood.(96)

(M66)

On the 2nd August, 1100, the Red King met his death suddenly in the New Forest, and the next
day was buried at Winchester. According to a previous agreement, the crown should have immediately
devolved upon his brother Robert. Crowns, however, were not to be thus disposed of; they fell
only to those ready and strong enough to seize them. Robert was far away on a crusade. His
younger brother Henry was on the spot, and upon him fell the choice of such of the witan as
happened to be in or near Winchester at the time of the late king’s death.(97)

(M67)

The two days that elapsed before his coronation at Westminster (5th August), the king-elect
spent in London, where by his easy and eloquent manner, as well as by fair promises, he succeeded
in winning the inhabitants over to his cause, to the rejection of the claims of Robert. The
election, or perhaps we should rather say, the selection of Henry by the witan at Winchester,
was thus approved and confirmed by the whole realm (regni universitas), in the city of London.

The choice was made however on one condition, viz.:—that Henry should restore to his subjects
their ancient liberties and customs enjoyed in the days of Edward the Confessor.(98) The charter
thus obtained served as an exemplar for the great charter of liberties which was to be subsequently
wrung from King John.

(M68)

Another charter was granted by the new king—a charter to the citizens of London—granted, as
some have thought, soon after his accession, and by way of recognition of the services they
had rendered him towards obtaining the crown. This however appears to be a mistake. There is
reason for supposing that this charter was not granted until at least thirty years after he
was seated on the throne.(99)

(M69)

The chief features of the grant(100) were that the citizens were thenceforth to be allowed
to hold Middlesex to farm at a rent of £300 a year, and to appoint from among themselves whom
they would to be sheriff over it; they were further to be allowed to appoint their own justiciar
to hold pleas of the crown, and no other justiciar should exercise authority over them; they
were not to be forced to plead without the city’s walls; they were to be exempt from scot and
lot and of all payments in respect of Danegelt and murder; they were to be allowed to purge
themselves after the English fashion of making oath and not after the Norman fashion by wager
of battle; their goods were to be free of all manner of customs, toll, passage and lestage;
their husting court might sit once a week; and lastly, they might resort to "withernam" or
reprisal in cases where their goods had been unlawfully seized.

(M70)

Touching the true import of this grant of Middlesex to the citizens at a yearly rent, with
the right of appointing their own sheriff over it, no less than the identity of the justiciar
whom they were to be allowed to choose for themselves for the purpose of hearing pleas of the
crown within the city, much divergence of opinion exists. Some believe that the government
of the city was hereby separated from that of the shire wherein it was situate, and that the
right of appointing their own justiciar which the citizens obtained by this charter was the
right of electing a sheriff for the city of London in the place of the non-elective ancient
port-reeve. Others deny that the charter introduced the shire organization into the government
of the city, and believe the justiciar and sheriff to have been distinct officials.(101) The
latter appear to hold the more plausible view. Putting aside the so-called charter of William
the First, granting to the citizens in express terms civitatem et vice-comitatum Londoniæ,
as wanting in corroboration, a solution of the difficulty may be found if we consider (1) that
the city received a shire organization and became in itself to all intents and purposes a county
as soon as it came to be governed by a port-reeve, if not as soon as an alderman had been set
over it by Alfred; (2) that the duties of the shrievalty in respect of the county of the city
of London were at this time performed either by a port-reeve or by one or more officers, known
subsequently as sheriffs, and (3) that for the right of executing these duties no rent or ferm
was ever demanded or paid.(102)

If this be a correct view of the matter, it would appear that the effect of Henry’s grant of
Middlesex to the citizens to farm, and of the appointment of a sheriff over it of their own
choice, was not so much to render the city independent of the shire, as to make the shire subject
to the city. It must be borne in mind that no sheriff (or sheriffs) has ever been elected by
the citizens for Middlesex alone, the duties appertaining to the sheriff-wick of Middlesex
having always been performed by the sheriffs of the city for the time being.(103) Hence it
is that the shrievalty of London and Middlesex is often spoken of as the shrievalty of "London"
alone, and the shrievalty of "Middlesex" alone (the same officers executing the duties of both
shrievalties) and the firma of £300 paid for the shrievalty of Middlesex alone is sometimes
described as the firma of "London," sometimes of "Middlesex," and sometimes of "London and
Middlesex."(104)

(M71)

The right of electing their own justiciar granted to the citizens by Henry resolves itself
into little more than a confirmation of the right to elect their own sheriffs.(105) Just as
sheriffs are known to have held pleas of the crown in the counties up to the time of the Great
Charter (although their duties were modified by Henry I, and again by Henry II, when he appointed
Justices in eyre) so in the city of London, no one, except the sheriffs of London could hold
pleas of the crown, and an attempt made by the Barons in 1258 to introduce a justiciar into
the Guildhall was persistently challenged by the citizens.(106)

Even those who stedfastly maintain that in the country the sheriff and justiciar grew up to
be two distinct officers, the one representing local interest and the other imperial, are willing
to allow that in the city of London such distinction was evanescent. The office of justiciar
in the city was twice granted eo nomine to Geoffrey de Mandeville, Earl of Essex, and it is
twice mentioned as having been held by one named Gervase, who (there is reason to believe)
is identical with Gervase de Cornhill, a Sheriff of London in 1155 and 1156; but the office
became extinct at the accession of Henry II.(107)

(M72)

The events which followed Henry’s decease afford us another instance of the futility of all
attempts at this early period to settle the succession to the crown before the throne was actually
vacant. The King’s nephew, Stephen of Blois, and the nobility of England had sworn to accept
the King’s daughter Matilda, wife of Geoffery of Anjou, as their sovereign on the death of
her father; yet when that event took place in 1135, Stephen, in spite of his oath, claimed
the crown as nearest male heir of the Conqueror’s blood.(108)

There was no doubt of his popularity, whilst Matilda on the other hand injured her cause by
marrying an Angevin. On the continent a bitter feud existed between Norman and Angevin; in
England the Norman had steadily increased in favour, and England’s crown was Stephen’s if he
had courage enough to seize it.

Landing on the Kentish coast, his first reception was far from encouraging. Canterbury and
Dover, held by the Earl of Gloucester, refused to acknowledge him and closed their gates on
his approach. Undismayed by these rebuffs, Stephen pushed on to London, where he was welcomed
by every token of good will. The Londoners had been no party to the agreement to recognise
Matilda as Henry’s successor; they had become accustomed to exercising a right of sharing in
the choice of a king who should reign over them, and they now chose Stephen. "It was their
right, their special privilege," said they, "on the occasion of the king’s decease, to provide
another in his place."(109) There was no time to be lost, the country was in danger, Stephen
was at hand, sent to them, as they believed, by the goodness of Providence. They could not
do better than elect him: and elected he was by the assembled aldermen or eldermen (majores
natu) of the City.

Such is the story of Stephen’s election as given by the author of the "Gesta Stephani," one
who wrote as an eye-witness of what took place, but whose statements cannot always be taken
as those of an independent chronicler of events. Informal as this election may have been, it
marks an important epoch in the annals of London. Thenceforth the city assumes a pre-eminent
position and exercises a predominant influence in the public affairs of the kingdom.(110)

(M73)

From London Stephen went down to Winchester, where he was heartily welcomed by his brother
Henry, recently appointed papal legate. Next to London, it was important that Stephen should
secure Winchester, and now that London had spoken, the citizens of Winchester no longer hesitated
to throw in their lot with the king. Winchester secured, and Stephen put in possession of the
royal castle and treasury, he returned to London, where all doubts as to the validity or invalidity
of his election were set at rest by the ceremony of coronation (Dec. 1135).

(M74)

In the spring of the following year (April 1136), a brilliant council of the clergy and magnates
of the realm was held in London,(111) reminding one of the Easter courts of the days of the
Conqueror which latterly had been shorn of much of their splendour. The occasion was one for
introducing the new king to his subjects as well as for confirming the liberties of the church,
and Stephen may have taken special care to surround it with exceptional splendour as a set
off against the meagreness which had characterised the recent ceremony of his coronation.(112)

(M75)

In the meanwhile the injured Matilda appealed to Rome, but only with the result that her rival
received formal recognition from the Pope. Three years later (1139) she landed in England accompanied
by her brother, the Earl of Gloucester. She soon obtained a following, more especially in the
west; and Winchester—the seat of the royal residence of the queens of England since the time
when Ethelred presented the city as a "morning gift" to his consort at their marriage—became
her headquarters and rallying point for her supporters, whilst London served in the same way
for Stephen.

(M76)

After nine months of sieges and counter sieges, marches and counter marches, in which neither
party could claim any decided success, Stephen, as was his wont, withdrew to London and shut
himself up in the Tower, with only a single bishop, and he a foreigner, in his train. Whilst
safe behind the walls of that stronghold, negotiations were opened between him and the empress
for a peaceful settlement of their respective claims (May, 1140), Henry of Winchester acting
as intermediary between the rival parties.(113) The negotiations ended without effecting the
desired result.

(M77)

Matters assumed an entirely different aspect when Stephen was made prisoner at Lincoln in the
following year (2nd Feb., 1141). Henry of Winchester forsook his rôle of arbitrator, and entered
into a formal compact with the empress who arrived before Winchester with the laurels of her
recent success yet fresh, agreeing to receive her as "Lady of England," (Domina Angliæ) and
promising her the allegiance of himself and his followers so long as she would keep her oath
and allow him a free hand in ecclesiastical matters.(114)

(M78)

This compact was entered into on the 2nd March, and on the following day the empress was received
with solemn pomp into Winchester Cathedral. It remained for the compact to be ratified. For
this purpose an ecclesiastical synod was summoned to sit at Winchester on the 7th April. The
day was spent by the legate holding informal communications with the bishops, abbots, and archdeacons
who were in attendance, and who then for the first time in England’s history claimed the right
not only of consecration, but of election of the sovereign.(115)

On the 8th April, Henry in a long speech announced to the assembled clergy the result of the
conclave of the previous day. He extolled the good government of the late king who before his
death had caused fealty to be sworn to his daughter, the empress. The delay of the empress
in coming to England (he said) had been the cause of Stephen’s election. The latter had forfeited
all claim to the crown by his bad government, and God’s judgment had been pronounced against
him. Lest therefore, the nation should suffer for want of a sovereign, he, as legate, had summoned
them together, and by them the empress had been elected Lady of England. The speech was received
with unanimous applause, those to whom the election did not commend itself being wise enough
to hold their tongue.

(M79)

But there was another element to be considered before Matilda’s new title could be assured.
What would the Londoners who had taken the initiative in setting Stephen on the throne, and
still owed to them their allegiance, say to it? The legate had foreseen the difficulty that
might arise if the citizens, whom he described as very princes of the realm, by reason of the
greatness of their city (qui sunt quasi optimates pro magnitudine civitatis in Anglia), could
not be won over. He had, therefore, sent a special safe conduct for their attendance, so he
informed the meeting after the applause which followed his speech had died away, and he expected
them to arrive on the following day. If they pleased they would adjourn till then.

(M80)

The next day (9th April) the Londoners arrived, as the legate had foretold, and were ushered
before the council. They had been sent, they said, by the so called "commune" of London; and
their purpose was not to enter into debate, but only to beg for the release of their lord,
the king.(116) The statement was supported by all the barons then present who had entered the
commune of the city(117) and met with the approval of the archbishop and all the clergy in
attendance. Their solicitations, however, proved of no avail. The legate replied with the same
arguments he had used the day before, adding that it ill became the Londoners who were regarded
as nobles (quasi proceres) in the land to foster those who had basely deserted their king on
the field of battle, and who only curried favour with the citizens in order to fleece them
of their money.

(M81)

Here an interruption took place. A messenger presented to the legate a paper from Stephen’s
queen to read to the council. Henry took the paper, and after scanning its contents, refused
to communicate them to the meeting. The messenger, however, not to be thus foiled, himself
made known the contents of the paper. These were, in effect, an exhortation by the queen to
the clergy, and more especially to the legate himself, to restore Stephen to liberty. The legate,
however, returned the same answer as before, and the meeting broke up, the Londoners promising
to communicate the decision of the council to their brethren at home, and to do their best
to obtain their support.

(M82)

The next two months were occupied by the empress and her supporters in preparing the way for
her admission into the city, the inhabitants of which, had as yet shown but little disposition
towards her. But however great their inclination may have been to Stephen, they at length found
themselves forced to transfer their allegiance and to offer, for a time at least, a politic
submission to the empress. Accordingly, a deputation went out to meet her at St. Albans (May
1141), and arrange terms on which the city should surrender.(118)

More delay took place; and it was not until shortly before midsummer (1141), that she entered
the city. Her stay was brief. She treated the inhabitants as vanquished foes,(119) extorted
large sums of money,(120) and haughtily refused to observe the laws of Edward the Confessor
they valued so much, preferring those of the late king, her father.(121)

(M83)

The consequence was that, within a few days of her arrival in London, the inhabitants rose
in revolt, drove her out of the city(122) and attacked the Tower, of which Geoffrey de Mandeville
was constable, as his father William had been before him.(123)

(M84)

This Geoffrey de Mandeville had been recently created Earl of Essex by Stephen, in the hope
and expectation that the fortress over which Geoffrey was governor, would be held secure for
the royal cause. The newly fledged earl, however, was one who ever fought for his own hand,
and was ready to sell his fortress and sword to the highest bidder. The few days that the empress
was in the city, afforded her an opportunity of risking a trial to win over the earl from his
allegiance. To this end she offered to confirm him in his earldom and to continue him in his
office of Constable of the Tower, conferred upon him by Stephen; in addition to which, she
was ready to allow him to enjoy lands of the rent of £100 a year, a license to fortify his
castles, and the posts of sheriff and justiciar throughout his earldom. The bait was too tempting
for the earl not to accept; and a charter to the above effect was drawn up and executed.(124)

(M85)

Scarcely had the fickle earl consented to throw in his lot with the empress before she had
to flee the city. The departure of the empress was quickly followed by the arrival of her namesake,
Matilda, the valiant queen of the captured Stephen; and again the earl proved false to his
allegiance and actively supported the queen in concert with the citizens.(125)

(M86)

With his aid(126) and the aid of the Londoners,(127) the queen was enabled to reduce Winchester
and to effect the liberation of her husband by exchanging the Earl of Gloucester, brother of
the empress, for the captured king.

(M87)

After being solemnly crowned, for the second time,(128) at Canterbury, Stephen issued a second
charter (about Christmas time, 1141),(129) to Geoffrey de Mandeville, confirming and augmenting
the previous grant by the empress. Instead of sheriff and justiciar of his own county of Essex
merely, he is now made sheriff and justiciar of London and Middlesex, as well as of Hertfordshire.

(M88)

But even these great concessions failed to secure the earl’s fidelity to the king. Again he
broke away from his allegiance and planned a revolt in favour of the empress who recompensed
him with still greater dignities and possessions than any yet bestowed. This second charter
of the empress,(130) is remarkable for a clause in which she promises never to make terms with
the Londoners without the earl’s consent, "because they are his mortal foes."(131) But the
plans of the earl were doomed to be frustrated. The empress, tired of the struggle, soon ceased
to be dangerous, and eventually withdrew to the continent, and Stephen was left free to deal
with the rebel earl alone. With the assistance of the Londoners, who throughout the long period
of civil dissension, were generally to be found on the winning side, and held as it were the
balance between the rival powers, Stephen managed after considerable bloodshed to capture the
fortifications erected by the Earl at Farringdon.(132)

(M89)

The earl was subsequently treacherously arrested and made to give up his castles. Thenceforth
his life was that of a marauding freebooter, until, fatally wounded at the siege of Burwell,
he expired in September, 1143.

(M90)

Notwithstanding the absence of the empress and the death of the faithless earl, a desultory
kind of war continued to be carried on for the next ten years on behalf of Henry of Anjou,
son of the empress. In 1153 that prince arrived in England to fight his own battles and maintain
his right to the crown, which the king had already attempted to transfer to the head of his
own son Eustace. This attempt had been foiled by the refusal of the bishops, at the instigation
of the pope, to perform the ceremony. The sudden death of Eustace made the king more ready
to enter into negotiations for effecting a peaceful settlement.

(M91) (M92)

A compromise was accordingly effected at Winchester,(133) whereby Stephen was to remain in
undisputed possession of the throne for life, and after his death was to be succeeded by Henry.
The news that at last an end had come to the troubles which for nineteen years had disturbed
the country, was received with universal joy, and Henry, conducted to London by the king himself,
was welcomed in a manner befitting one who was now the recognised heir to the crown.(134)

CHAPTER III.

(M93)

Both London and Winchester had been laid in ashes during Stephen’s reign, the former by a conflagration—which
took place in 1136, again destroying St. Paul’s and extending from London Bridge to the church
of St. Clement Danes—the latter by the burning missiles used in the conflict between Stephen
and the empress in 1141. Winchester never recovered her position, and London was left without
a rival. Fitz-Stephen, who wrote an account of the city as it stood in the reign of Henry II,
describes it as holding its head higher than all others; its fame was wider known; its wealth
and merchandise extended further than any other; it was the capital of the kingdom (regni Anglorum
sedes).(135)

(M94)

It was through the mediation of an intimate friend and fellow citizen of Fitz-Stephen that
Archbishop Theobald had invited Henry of Anjou over from France in 1153. Thomas of London,
better known as Thomas Becket, although of foreign descent, was born in the heart of the city,
having first seen the light in the house of Gilbert, his father, some time Portreeve of London,
situate in Cheapside on a site now occupied by the hall and chapel of the Mercers’ Chapel.
Having been ordained a deacon of the Church, he became in course of time clerk or chaplain
to the archbishop. Vigorous and active as he was, Thomas soon made his influence felt, and
it was owing to his suggestion (so it is said(136)) that the bishops had declined to be a party
to the coronation of Eustace during Stephen’s lifetime.

On the accession of Henry, Thomas passed from the service of the archbishop, then advanced
in years, to the service of the young king. He was raised to the dignity of chancellor, and
became one of the king’s most trusted advisers. By their united efforts order was once again
restored throughout the kingdom. The great barons, who had established themselves in castles
erected without royal licence, were brought into subjection to the crown and compelled to pull
down their walls. Upon the death of the archbishop, Thomas was appointed to the vacant See
(1162). From that day forward the friendship between king and archbishop began to wane. Henry
found that all his attempts to establish order in his kingdom were thwarted by exemptions claimed
by the archbishop on behalf of the clergy. He found that allegiance to the Crown was divided
with allegiance to the Pope, and this state of things was likely to continue so long as the
archbishop lived. Becket’s end is familiar to us all. His memory was long cherished by the
citizens of London, who made many a pilgrimage to the scene of his martyrdom and left many
an offering on his tomb in the cathedral of Canterbury. It is hard to say for which of the
two, the father or the son, the citizens entertained the greater reverence. For many years
after his death it was the custom for the Mayor of the City for the time being, upon entering
into office, to meet the aldermen at the church of St. Thomas of Acon—a church which had been
erected and endowed in honour of the murdered archbishop by his sister Agnes, wife of Thomas
Fitz-Theobald of Helles(137)—and thence to proceed to the tomb of Gilbert Becket, the father,
in St. Paul’s churchyard, there to say a De profundis; after which both mayor and aldermen
returned to the church of St. Thomas, and, each having made an offering of two pence, returned
to his own home.(138) St. Thomas’s Hospital, in Southwark, was originally dedicated to the
murdered archbishop, but after its dissolution and subsequent restoration as one of the Royal
Hospitals, its patron saint was no longer Thomas the Martyr, but Thomas the Apostle.

(M95)

Whilst the king and his chancellor were busy settling the kingdom, establishing a uniform administration
of justice and system of revenue, and not only renewing but extending the form of government
which had been instituted by Henry I, the citizens of London, availing themselves of the security
afforded by a strong government, redoubled their energy in following commercial pursuits and
succeeded in raising the city, as Fitz-Stephen has told us, to a pitch of prosperity far exceeding
that of any other city in the world.

They obtained a charter from Henry,(139) although of a more limited character than that granted
to them by his grandfather. The later charter, for instance, although in the main lines following
the older charter, makes no mention of Middlesex being let to ferm nor of any appointment of
sheriff or justiciar being vested in the citizens. It appears as if Henry was determined to
bring the citizens no less than the barons of the realm within more direct and immediate subservience
to the crown. The concession made by the king’s grandfather had been ignored by Stephen and
the empress Matilda, each of whom in turn had granted the shrievalty of London and Middlesex
to the Earl of Essex. For a time the appointment of sheriffs was lost to the citizens. Throughout
the reigns of Henry II and his successor they were appointed by the crown. Richard’s charter
to the citizens makes no mention of the sheriffwick, nor is it mentioned in the first charter
granted by John. When it was restored to the citizens (A.D. 1199), by John’s second charter,
the office of sheriff of London had lost much of its importance owing to the introduction of
the communal system of municipal government under a mayor.

(M96)

In the meantime the sheriffs of the counties, who had by reason of Henry’s administrative reforms,
risen to be officers of greater importance and wider jurisdiction, and who had taken advantage
of their positions to oppress the people during the king’s prolonged absence abroad, were also
made to feel the power of the crown. A blow struck at the sheriffs was calculated to weaken
the nobility and the larger landowners—the class from which it had been the custom hitherto
to select these officers. Henry saw the advantage to be gained, and on his return to England
in 1170 deposed most of the sheriffs and ordered a strict enquiry to be made, as to the extortions
they had committed in his absence. Their places were filled for the most part by men of lower
rank, and therefore likely to be more submissive. Some, however, were reinstated and became
more cruel and extortionate than ever.(140)

(M97)

The last fifteen years of Henry’s life were full of domestic trouble. He had always found it
an easier matter to rule his kingdom than his household. His sons were for ever thwarting his
will and quarrelling with each other. It was his desire to secure the succession to the crown
for his eldest son Henry, and to this end he had caused him to be crowned by the Archbishop
of York (14th June, 1170), who was thereupon declared excommunicated by his brother of Canterbury.
The son began to clamour for his inheritance whilst his father still lived, and appealed in
1173 to the French king, whose daughter he had married, to assist him in his unholy enterprise.
Whilst Henry was engaged in defending his crown against his own son on the continent, the great
barons of England rose in insurrection, and the king was obliged to hasten home, where he arrived
in July, 1174. The rebellion was quickly put down, and the strife between king and nobles for
a time ceased.

(M98)

In the city there were occasional disturbances caused by the younger nobility—the young bloods
of the city(141)—who infested the streets at night, broke into the houses of the rich and committed
every kind of excess. In 1177 the brother of the Earl of Ferrers was waylaid and killed, and
for some time the streets were unsafe at night. The chronicler records a singular outrage perpetrated
three years before, by these sprigs of nobility. They forcibly entered the house of a wealthy
citizen whose name has not come down to us, he is simply styled the pater-familias. Of his
courage we are left in no doubt, for we are told that he slipt on a coat of mail, armed his
house-hold, and awaited the attack. He had not long to wait. The leader of the band—one Andrew
Bucquinte soon made his appearance, and was met by a pan of hot coals. Swords were drawn on
both sides and pater-familias, whose coat of mail served him well, succeeded in cutting off
the right hand of his assailant. Upon the cry of thieves being raised, the delinquents took
to their heels, leaving their leader a prisoner.  The next day, being brought before the king’s
justiciar, he informed against his companions. This cowardly action on the part of Bucquinte
led to many of them being taken, and among them one who is described by the chronicler as the
noblest and wealthiest of London citizens, but to whom the chronicler gives no other name than
"John, the old man" (Johannes Senex). An offer was made to John to prove his innocence by what
was known as the ordeal by water,(142) but the offer was declined, and he was eventually hanged.
The whole story looks suspicious.

(M99)

Having settled the succession of the crown of England upon his eldest son, the king put his
second son, Richard, into possession of the Duchy of Aquitaine, and provided for his third
son, Geoffrey, by marriage with the heiress of Brittany. There was yet another son, John, who
was too young to be provided for just now, and who being without any territory, assigned to
him, acquired the name of Lackland. Both Richard and Geoffrey had taken the part of their brother
Henry in 1173, and in 1177 the three brothers were again quarrelling with their father and
with each other. After the deaths of Henry and Geoffrey, the quarrel was taken up by the surviving
brothers, Richard and John.

In all these—more or less—petty wars with his sons, the king had always to deal with the ruler
of France. At last, in 1189, the loss of Le Mans—his own birth-place—and the unexpected discovery
that his youngest and best beloved son, John, had turned traitor towards him, left the king
nothing to live for, and after a few days suffering he died, ill and worn out, at Chinon.

(M100)

Richard had scarcely succeeded to the throne, before he set out on a crusade, leaving the government
of his country in the hands of William Longchamp, Bishop of Ely, as chancellor.(143) With him
was associated in the government, Hugh de Puiset, or Pudsey, Bishop of Durham, but Longchamp
soon got the supreme control of affairs into his own hands, and commenced to act in the most
tyrannical fashion. He increased the security of the Tower of London, which had been committed
to his charge, by surrounding it with a moat,(144) and having got himself nominated papal legate,
made a progress through the country committing the greatest extortion.(145)

(M101) (M102)

Report of the Chancellor’s conduct having reached the ears of Richard, he despatched the Archbishop
of Rouen to England with a new commission, but the worthy prelate on arrival (April, 1191),
was afraid to present the commission, preferring to let matters take their course.(146) Already
a fierce rivalry had sprung up between the chancellor and John, the king’s brother, who, for
purposes of his own, had espoused the cause of the oppressed. Popular feeling at length became
so strong, that Longchamp feared to meet John and the bishops, and, instead of going to Reading,
where his attendance was required, he hastened to London. Arriving there (7 Oct.), he called
the citizens together in the Guildhall, and prayed them to uphold the King against John, whom
he denounced as aiming plainly at the Crown. The leading men in the city at the time were Richard
Fitz-Reiner and Henry de Cornhill. These took opposite sides, the former favouring John, whilst
the latter took the side of the chancellor.(147) John’s party proving the stronger of the two,
Longchamp thought it safest to seek refuge in the Tower.(148)

(M103)

As soon as John found that the chancellor had gone to London instead of Reading, he too hastened
thither. On his arrival he was welcomed and hospitably entertained by Richard Fitz-Reiner who
gave him to understand on what terms he might expect the support of the city.(149) As to terms,
John was ready to accede to any that might be proposed.

(M104) (M105)

The next day (8 Oct.), a meeting of the barons of the realm, as well as of the citizens of
London, was convened in St. Paul’s Church, to consider the conduct of the chancellor, and it
was thereupon decided that Longchamp should be deposed from office. The story, as told by different
chroniclers,(150) varies in some particulars, but the main features are the same in all. The
king’s minister was set aside, John was recognised as the head of the kingdom, and new appointments
made to judicial, fiscal, and military offices. The Archbishop of Rouen, who attended the council,
seeing the turn affairs had taken, no longer hesitated to produce the letters under the king’s
sign manual appointing a new commission for the government of the kingdom.

(M106)

The same day that witnessed the fall of Longchamp was also a memorable one in the annals of
the City of London; for immediately after judgment had been passed on the chancellor, John
and the assembled barons granted to the citizens "their commune," swearing to preserve untouched
the dignities of the city during the king’s pleasure.  The citizens on their part swore fealty
to King Richard, and declared their readiness to accept John as successor to the throne in
the event of his brother dying childless.(151)

(M107)

This is the first public recognition of the citizens of London as a body corporate; but so
far from granting to them something new, the very words their commune (communam suam) imply
a commune of which they were de facto, if not de jure already in enjoyment. How long the commune
may have been in existence, unauthorised by the crown, cannot be determined; but that the term
communio in connection with the city’s organization was known half a century before, we have
already seen;(152) and, according to the opinion of Giraldus Cambrensis, there is no valid
distinction between the words communio, communa and communia.(153) Bishop Stubbs, however,
hesitates to translate communio as "commune," the latter being essentially a French term for
a particular form of municipal government. He prefers to render it "commonalty," "fraternity,"
or "franchise," although he goes so far as to allow that the term "suggests that the communal
idea was already in existence as a basis of civic organization" in Stephen’s reign, an idea
which became fully developed in the succeeding reign.(154) He is also in favour of dating the
foundation of the communa in London from this grant by John and the barons,(155) and in this
view he is supported by Richard of Devizes, who distinctly states that the communia of London
was instituted on that occasion, and that it was of such a character that neither King Richard
nor Henry his father would have conceded it for a million marks of silver, and that a communia
was in fact everything that was bad. It puffed up the people, it threatened the kingdom, and
it emasculated the priesthood.(156)

(M108)

With the change from a shire organization to that of a French commune, whenever that happened
to take place, there took place also a change in the chief governor of the city. The head of
the city was no longer a Saxon "port-reeve" but a French "mayor," the former officer continuing
in all probability to perform the duties of a port-reeve or sheriff of a town in a modified
form. From the time when this "civic revolution"(157) occurred, down to the present day, the
sheriff’s position has always been one of secondary importance, being himself subordinate to
the mayor.

(M109)

The earliest mention of a mayor of London in a formal document is said to occur in a writ of
the reign of Henry II.(158) The popular opinion, however, is that a change in the name of the
chief magistrate of the City of London took place at the accession of Richard I. What gave
rise to this belief is hard to say, but it is not improbable that it arose from a statement
to be found in an early manuscript record still preserved among the archives of the Corporation,
and known as the Liber de Antiquis Legibus.(159) The original portion of this manuscript purports
to be a chronicle of mayors and sheriffs from 1188 down to 1273, noticing briefly the chief
events in each year, and referring to a few particulars relative to the year 1274.

After naming the sheriffs who were appointed at Michaelmas, A.D. 1188, "the first year of the
reign of King Richard,"(160) it goes on to say that "in the same year Henry Fitz-Eylwin of
Londenestane was made mayor of London, who was the first mayor of the city, and continued to
be such mayor to the end of his life, that is to say, for nearly five and twenty years." That
Henry Fitz-Eylwin was mayor in the first year of Richard’s reign is stated no less than three
times in the chronicle.(161)

(M110)

The compiler of the chronicle is supposed to have been Arnald or Arnulf Fitz-Thedmar,(162)
an Alderman of London, although it is not known over which ward he presided. Particulars of
his life are given in the volume itself, from which we gather that he was a grandson on the
mother’s side of Arnald de Grevingge(163) a citizen of Cologne; that his father’s name was
Thedmar, a native of Bremen; that he was born on the vigil of St. Lawrence [10 August] A.D.
1201, his mother being forewarned of the circumstances that would attend his birth in a manner
familiar to biblical readers; that he was deprived of his aldermanry by the king, but was afterwards
restored; that he became supporter of the king against Simon de Montfort and the barons, and
that he was among those whom Thomas Fitz-Thomas, the leader of the democratic party and his
followers, had "intended to slay" on the very day that news reached London of the battle of
Evesham, which crushed the hopes of Montfort and his supporters. The date of his death cannot
be precisely determined, but there can be but little doubt that it took place early in the
third year of the reign of Edward the First, inasmuch as his will was proved and enrolled in
the Court of Husting, London, held on Monday, the morrow of the Feast of St. Scolastica [10
Feb.] of that year (A.D. 1274-5).(164)

Setting aside the statement—namely that mention is made of a mayor of London, in a document
of the reign of Henry II—as wanting corroboration, the first instance known at the present
day of any such official being named in a formal document occurs in 1193 when the Mayor of
London appears among those who were appointed treasurers of Richard’s ransom.(165)

(M111)

Richard’s first charter to the City (23 April, 1194)(166) granted a few weeks after his return
from abroad makes no mention of a mayor, nor does the title occur in any royal charter affecting
the City until the year 1202, when John attempted to suppress the guild of weavers "at the
request of our mayor and citizens of London." A few years later when John was ready to do anything
and everything to avoid signing the Great Charter which the barons were forcing on him, he
made a bid for the favour of the citizens by granting them the right to elect annually a mayor,
and thus their autonomy was rendered complete.

(M112)

When Richard recovered his liberty and returned to England he was heartily welcomed by all
except his brother John. One of his first acts was to visit the City and return thanks for
his safety at St. Paul’s.(167) The City was on this occasion made to look its brightest, and
the display of wealth astonished the foreigners in the King’s suite, who had been led to believe
that England had been brought to the lowest stage of poverty by payment of the King’s ransom.(168)

(M113) (M114)

In order to wipe out the stain of his imprisonment, he thought fit to go through the ceremony
of coronation for the second time. His first coronation had taken place at Westminster (3 Sept.,
1189,) soon after his accession, and the citizens of London had duly performed a service at
the coronation banquet—a service which even in those days was recognised as an "ancient service"—namely,
that of assisting the chief butler, for which the mayor was customarily presented with a gold
cup and ewer. The citizens of the rival city of Winchester performed on this occasion the lesser
service of attending to the viands.(169)

The second coronation taking place at Winchester and not at Westminster, the burgesses of the
former city put in a claim to the more honourable service over the heads of the citizens of
London, and the latter only succeeded in establishing their superior claim by a judicious bribe
of 200 marks.(170)

(M115)

Richard was ever in want of money, and cared little by what means it was raised. He declared
himself ready to sell London itself if a purchaser could be found.(171) The tax of Danegelt,
from which the citizens of London had been specially exempted by charter of Henry I, and which
had ceased to be exacted under Henry II, mainly through the interposition of Thomas of London,
was practically revived under a new name. The charter already mentioned as having been granted
to the citizens by Richard after his return from captivity was probably purchased, for one
of the king’s regular methods of raising money was a lavish distribution of charters to boroughs,
not from any love he had for municipal government, but in order to put money in his purse.
As soon as Richard had collected all the money he could raise in England, he again left the
country, never to return.

(M116)

The pressure of taxation weighed heavily on the poor, and occasioned a rising in the city under
the leadership of William Fitz-Osbert. The cry was that the rich were spared whilst the poor
were called upon to pay everything.(172) Accounts of the commotion differ according as the
writer favoured the autocratic or democratic side. One chronicler, for instance, finds fault
with Fitz-Osbert’s personal appearance, imputing his inordinate length of beard—he was known
as "Longbeard"—to his desire for conspicuousness, and declares him to have been actuated by
base motives.(173)

Others describe him as a wealthy citizen of the best family, and yet as one who ever upheld
the cause of the poor against the king’s extortions.(174) Whatever may have been the true character
of the man and the real motive of his action, it is certain that he had a large following.
When Hubert Walter, the justiciar, sent to arrest him, "Longbeard" took refuge in the church
of St. Mary-le-Bow. Thither he was followed by the king’s officers—described by a not impartial
chronicler as men devoid of truth and piety and enemies of the poor.(175)—who with the aid
of fire and faggot soon compelled him to surrender. On his way to the Tower, he was struck
at and wounded by one whose father (it was said) he had formerly killed;(176) but this again
may or may not be the whole truth. A few days later he and a number of his associates were
hanged.(177)

(M117)

Two years before his death at Chaluz, Richard, with the view of aiding commerce, caused the
wears in the Thames to be removed, and forbade his wardens of the Tower to demand any more
the toll that had been accustomed. The writ to this effect was dated from the Island of Andely
or Les Andelys on the Seine, the 14th July, 1197, in the neighbourhood of that fortress which
Richard had erected, and of which he was so proud—the Château Gaillard or "Saucy Castle," as
he jestingly called it. The reputation which the castle enjoyed for impregnability under Richard,
was lost under his successor on the throne.

(M118)

Soon after John’s accession we find what appears to be the first mention of a court of aldermen
as a deliberative body. In the year 1200, writes Thedmar (himself an alderman), "were chosen
five and twenty of the more discreet men of the city, and sworn to take counsel on behalf of
the city, together with the mayor."(178) Just as in the constitution of the realm, the House
of Lords can claim a greater antiquity than the House of Commons, so in the city—described
by Lord Coke as epitome totius regni—the establishment of a court of aldermen preceded that
of the common council.

(M119)

When, after thirteen years of misgovernment, during which John had enraged the barons and excited
general discontent by endless impositions, matters were brought to a climax by his submission
to the pope, it was in the city of London that the first steps were taken by his subjects to
recover their lost liberty. On the 25th August, 1213, a meeting of the clergy and barons was
held in the church of St. Paul; a memorable meeting, and one that has been described as "a
true parliament of the realm, though no king presided in it."(179) Stephen Langton, whose appointment
as Archbishop of Canterbury had so raised John’s ire, took the lead and produced to the assembly
a copy of the Charter of Liberties, granted by Henry I, when that king undertook to put an
end to the tyranny of William Rufus. If the barons so pleased, it might (he said) serve as
a precedent. The charter having been then and there deliberately read, the barons unanimously
declared that for such liberties they were ready to fight, and, if necessary, to die.(180)

The clergy and people who had hitherto supported the king against the barons, having now engaged
themselves to assist the barons against the tyranny of the king, John found himself with but
one friend in the world, and that was the Pope. "Innocent’s view of the situation was very
simple," writes Dr. Gardiner, "John was to obey the Pope, and all John’s subjects were to obey
John." Within a few weeks of the council being held at St. Paul’s, the same sacred edifice
witnessed the formality of affixing a golden bulla to the deed—the detestable deed (carta detestabilis)—whereby
John had in May last resigned the crown of England to the papal legate, and received it again
as the Pope’s feudatory.(181)

(M120)

In the following year (1214), whilst the king was abroad, the barons met again at Bury St.
Edmunds, and solemnly swore that if John any longer delayed restoring the laws and liberties
of Henry the First, they would make war upon him. It was arranged that after Christmas they
should go in a body and demand their rights, and that in the meantime they should provide themselves
with horses and arms, with the view of bringing force to bear, in case of refusal.(182) The
citizens at the same time took the opportunity of strengthening their defences by digging a
foss on the further side of the city wall.(183)

(M121)

Christmas came and a meeting between John and the barons took place in London at what was then
known as the "New" Temple. The result, however, was unsatisfactory, and both parties prepared
for an appeal to force, the barons choosing as their leader Robert Fitz-Walter, whom they dubbed
"Marshal of the army of God and of Holy Church."(184)

(M122)

This Fitz-Walter was Baron of Dunmow in Essex, the owner of Baynard’s Castle in the City of
London, and lord of a soke, which embraced the whole of the parish known as St. Andrew Castle
Baynard. He moreover enjoyed the dignity of castellain and chief bannerer or banneret of London.
The rights and privileges attaching to his soke and to his official position in time of peace
were considerable, to judge from a claim to them put forward by his grandson in the year 1303.
Upon making his appearance in the Court of Husting at the Guildhall, it was the duty of the
Mayor, or other official holding the court, to rise and meet him and place him by his side.
Again, if any traitor were taken within his soke or jurisdiction, it was his right to sentence
him to death, the manner of death being that the convicted person should be tied to a post
in the Thames at the Wood Wharf, and remain there during two tides and two ebbs.(185)

In later years, however, upon an enquiry being held by the Justiciars of the Iter (a° 14 Edward
II, A.D. 1321), the claimant was obliged to acknowledge that he had disposed of Baynard’s Castle
in the time of Edward I, but had especially reserved to himself all rights attaching to the
castle and barony, although he very considerately declared his willingness to forego the right
and title enjoyed by his ancestor of drowning traitors at Wood Wharf.(186)

(M123)

But it was in time of war that Fitz-Walter achieved for himself the greatest power and dignity.
It then became the duty of the castellain to proceed to the great gate of St. Paul’s attended
by nineteen other knights, mounted and caparisoned, and having his banner, emblazoned with
his arms, displayed before him. Immediately upon his arrival, the mayor, aldermen, and sheriffs,
who awaited him, issued solemnly forth from the church, all arrayed in arms, the mayor bearing
in his hand the city banner, the ground of which was bright vermilion or gules, with a figure
of St. Paul, in gold, thereon, the head, feet, and hands of the saint being silver or argent,
and in his right hand a sword.(187) The castellain, advancing to meet the mayor, informed him
that he had come to do the service which the city had a right to demand at his hands, and thereupon
the mayor placed the city’s banner in his hands, and then, attending him back to the gate,
presented him with a charger of the value of £20, its saddle emblazoned with the arms of Fitz-Walter,
and its housing of cendal or silk, similarly enriched.

A sum of £20 was at the same time handed to Fitz-Walter’s chamberlain to defray the day’s expenses.
Having mounted his charger, he bids the Mayor to choose a Marshal of the host of the City of
London; and this being done, the communal or "mote-bell" is set ringing, and the whole party
proceed to the Priory of Holy Trinity at Aldgate. There they dismount, and entering the Priory,
concert measures together for the defence of the city. There is one other point worthy of remark,
touching the office of chief banneret, and that is that on the occasion of any siege undertaken
by the London forces, the castellain was to receive as his fee the niggardly sum of one hundred
shillings for his trouble, and no more.

(M124)

It is not improbable that Fitz-Walter’s election as leader of the remonstrant barons was in
some measure due to his official position in the city. It is also probable, as Mr. Riley has
pointed out, that the unopposed admission of the barons into the city, on the 24th May, 1215,
may have been facilitated by Fitz-Walter’s connexion, as castellain, with the Priory of Holy
Trinity, situate in the vicinity.

But there were other reasons for selecting Fitz-Walter as their leader at this juncture. If
the story be true, Fitz-Walter had good reason to be bitterly hostile to King John, for having
caused his fair daughter Maude or Matilda to be poisoned, after having unsuccessfully made
an attempt upon her chastity.(188) This is not the only crime of the kind laid to the charge
of this monarch,(189) and there appears to be too much reason for believing most of the charges
against him to be true. It is certain that Fitz-Walter was one of the first to entertain designs
against John, and that he and Eustace de Vesci, on whose family the king is said to have put
a similar affront, were forced to escape to France. The story how Fitz-Walter attracted John’s
notice by his prowess at a tournament in which he was engaged on the side of the French, and
was restored to the King’s favour and his own estates, is familiar to all.

(M125)

After a feeble attempt to capture Northampton, the barons, with Fitz-Walter at their head,
accepted an invitation from the citizens of London to enter the city. They made their entry
through Aldgate.(190)

The concession which John had recently made to the citizens, viz.:—the right of annually electing
their own mayor(191)—had failed to secure their allegiance. The city became thenceforth the
headquarters of the barons,(192) and the adhesion of the Londoners was followed by so great
a defection from the King’s party (including among others that of Henry de Cornhill), that
he was left without any power of resistance.(193)

(M126)

The citizens met their reward for fidelity to the barons when John was brought to bay at Runnymede.
In drafting the articles of the Great Charter the barons, mindful of their trusty allies, made
provision for the preservation of the city’s liberties, and the names of Fitz-Walter and of
the mayor of the city appear among those who were specially appointed to see that the terms
of the charter were strictly carried out.(194)

By way of further security for the fulfilment of the articles of the charter the barons demanded
and obtained the custody of the City of London, including the Tower, and they reserved to themselves
the right of making war upon the king if he failed to keep his word. For a year or more the
barons remained in the city, having entered into a mutual compact with the inhabitants to make
no terms with the king without the consent of both parties.(195)

(M127)

The right of resistance thus established was soon to be carried into execution. Before the
year was out, John had broken faith, and was besieging Rochester with the aid of mercenaries.
An attempt to raise the siege failed, owing to the timidity (not to say cowardice) of Fitz-Walter,
who, like the rest of the barons, was inclined to be indolent so soon as the struggle with
the king was thought to have ended.(196)

(M128)

The Pope supported his vassal king. For a second time during John’s reign London was placed
under an interdict. The first occasion was in 1208, when the whole of England was put under
an interdict, and for six years the nation was deprived of all religious rites saving the sacraments
of baptism and extreme unction.(197) It was then the object of Innocent to stir up resistance
against John by inflicting sufferings on the people, now his purpose was to punish the people
for having risen against John.

(M129) (M130)

The barons saw no other course open to them but to invite Louis the Dauphin to come and undertake
the government of the kingdom in the place of John. On the 21st May, 1216, Louis landed at
Sandwich and came to London, where he was welcomed by the barons. Both barons and citizens
paid him homage, whilst he, on his part, swore to restore to them their rights, to maintain
such laws of the realm as were good, and to abolish those (if any) that were bad.(198) Suspicion,
however, had been aroused against Louis by the confession of a French nobleman who had come
over in his train, and who had solemnly declared on his deathbed that his master had sworn
when once on the throne of England to banish all John’s enemies.(199) Just when matters seemed
to be approaching a crisis and the barons were wavering in their allegiance, John died (19th
October, 1216).

CHAPTER IV.

(M131)

Although London remained faithful to Louis after John’s death, the barons began to desert him,
one by one (quasi stillatim),(200) and to transfer their allegiance to John’s eldest son, a
boy of nine years of age, who had been crowned at Gloucester soon after his father’s death,
the disturbed state of the country not allowing of his coming to London for the ceremony.(201)

(M132)

After his defeat at Lincoln (20th May, 1217), by William the Marshal, Earl of Pembroke, one
of Henry’s guardians, Louis beat a hasty retreat to London and wrote to his father, the French
king, to send him military assistance, for without it he could neither fight nor get out of
the country.

(M133)

Among the prisoners taken at Lincoln were Robert Fitz-Walter, and a neighbour of his in the
ward of Castle Baynard, Richard de Muntfichet, who, like Fitz-Walter, had also suffered banishment
in 1213. The tower or castle of Muntfichet lay a little to the west of Baynard’s Castle, and
was made over in 1276 by Gregory de Rokesle, the mayor, and citizens of London to the Archbishop
of Canterbury, for the purpose of erecting a new house for the Dominican or Black Friars, in
place of their old house in Holborn.(202) We hear little of Fitz-Walter after this, beyond
the facts that he soon afterwards obtained his freedom, that he went on a crusade, and continued
a loyal subject to Henry until his death in 1235. He is said to have been in the habit of wearing
a precious stone suspended from his neck by way of a charm, which at his last moments he asked
his wife to remove in order that he might die the easier.(203)

(M134)

A French fleet which had been despatched in answer to Louis was defeated off Dover by Hubert
de Burgh, who had gallantly held that town for John, and continued to hold it now for Henry.
London itself was invested by the Marshal, and threatened with starvation; but before matters
came to extremes, Louis intimated his willingness to come to terms.(204)

(M135)

A meeting was held on the 11th of September (some say at Kingston,(205) others at Staines(206)),
and a peace concluded.(207) Louis swore fealty to the Pope and the Roman Church, for which
he was absolved from the ban of excommunication that had been passed on him, and surrendered
all the castles and towns he had taken during the war. He, further, promised to use his influence
to obtain the restoration to England of the possessions that had been lost beyond the sea.

(M136)

Henry, on his part, swore to preserve to the barons and the rest of the kingdom, all those
liberties which they had succeeded in obtaining from John. Everything being thus amicably settled,
Louis went to London, and, after borrowing a large sum of money from his former trusty supporters,
betook himself back to his native country.(208) The general pardon which was granted by the
young king extended to the Londoners, who became reconciled and received back their lands,(209)
but did not extend to the clergy, who were left to the tender mercy of the papal legate.

(M137)

For some years to come there remained a party in the city who cherished the memory of Louis,
and the cry of "Mountjoy!" the war-cry of the French king—was sufficient to cause a riot as
late as 1222, when Constantine Fitz-Athulf or Olaf, an ex-sheriff of London, raised the cry
at a tournament, in order to test the feeling of the populace towards Louis. Any serious results
that might have arisen were promptly prevented by Hubert de Burgh, the justiciar, who very
quickly sought out the ringleader, and incontinently caused him and two of his followers to
be hanged at the Elms in Smithfield. Whilst the halter was round his neck, Fitz-Athulf offered
15,000 marks of silver for his life. The offer was declined. He was not to be allowed another
chance of stirring up sedition in the city.(210)

A more circumstantial account of this event is given us by another chronicler,(211) who relates
that the wrestling match which took place on the festival of Saint James (25th July),—the same
as that mentioned by Matthew Paris—was held at Queen Matilda’s hospital in the suburbs,(212)
and was a match between the citizens of London and those outside; that victory declared itself
in favour of the Londoners, and that their opponents, and among them the steward of the Abbot
of Westminster, thereupon left in high dudgeon. With thoughts of revenge in their hearts, the
latter caused invitations to be issued for another match to be held at Westminster, on the
following feast of Saint Peter ad Vincula (1st August).

It was at this second and later match that the trouble began. The steward was not content with
collecting the most powerful athletes he could find, but caused them to seize weapons and to
attack the defenceless citizens who had come to take part in the games. The Londoners hurried
home, bleeding with wounds, and immediately took counsel as to what was best to be done. Serlo,
the mercer, who had held the office of mayor of the city for the past five years, and was of
a peaceable disposition, suggested referring the matter to the abbot; and it was then that
Constantine, who had a large following, advocated an attack upon the houses of the abbot and
of his steward. No sooner said than done, and many houses had already suffered before the justiciar
appeared upon the scene with a large force. As to the seizure of Constantine and his subsequent
execution, the chroniclers agree.

Constantine’s fellow citizens were very indignant at the indecent haste with which the justiciar
had caused his execution to be carried out, and did not fail to bring the matter up in judgment
against him, when, some ten years later, Hubert de Burgh himself fell into disgrace.(213) The
result was, that the justiciar took refuge in the Priory of Merton. When the citizens received
the king’s orders to follow him there, and to take him dead or alive, they obeyed with unconcealed
joy. They allowed little time to elapse, but set out at once, 20,000 strong, ready to tear
him limb from limb; but luckily they were stopped in time by another message from the king,
and Hubert obtained a respite.(214)

(M138)

At the time of Constantine’s execution, there was real danger to be anticipated from raising
the cry in favour of any foreigner. The land was already swarming with foreigners, and in that
very year (viz. 1222), the archbishop had been under the necessity of summoning a council of
bishops and nobles to be held in London, owing to dissensions that had arisen between the Earl
of Chester, William of Salisbury, the king’s uncle, and Hubert de Burgh, and to a rumour that
had got abroad, that foreigners were inciting the Earl of Chester to raise an insurrection.(215)

A few years later, the country was over-run by a brood of Italian usurers who battened on the
inhabitants, reducing many to beggary. When attempts were made to rid the city of these pests,
they sheltered themselves under the protection of the Pope.(216)

Throughout the reign of Henry III, there was one continuous struggle against foreign dominion,
either secular or ecclesiastical. In this struggle, none took a more active part than the citizens
of London, and "when [in 1247], the nobles, clergy, and people of England put forth their famous
letter denouncing the wrongs which England suffered at the hands of the Roman bishop, it was
with the seal of the city of London, as the centre of national life that the national protest
was made."(217)

(M139)

Side by side with this struggle another was being carried on, a struggle for the liberty of
the subject against the tyranny and rapacity of the king. More especially was this the case
with the city. Henry was for ever invading the rights and liberties of the citizens. Thus in
1239, he insisted upon their admitting to the shrievalty one who had already been dismissed
from that office for irregular conduct, and because they refused to forego their chartered
right of election and to appoint the king’s nominee, the city was deprived of a mayor for three
months and more.(218)

(M140)

The substitution of a custos or warden appointed by the king for a mayor elected by the citizens,
and of bailiffs for sheriffs,—a procedure known as "taking the city into the king’s hands,"—was
frequently resorted to both by Henry and his successors, and notably by Edward I, in whose
reign the city was deprived of its mayor, and remained under government of a custos for thirteen
consecutive years (1285-1298).(219)

Any pretext was sufficient for Henry’s purpose. If the citizens harboured a foreigner without
warrant, not only was the city taken into the king’s hand, but the citizens were fined £1,000,(220)
a sum equal to at least £20,000 at the present day. A widow brings an action for a third part
of her late husband’s goods in addition to her dower. The case goes against her in the Court
of Husting, and is heard on appeal before the king’s justiciar sitting at St. Martin’s-le-Grand.
The verdict is not set aside, but some flaw is discovered in the mode of procedure; the explanation
of the citizens is deemed insufficient, and the mayor and sheriffs are forthwith deposed, to
be reinstated only on the understanding that they will so far forego their chartered right—viz.:
of not impleading nor being impleaded without the walls of their city—as to consent to attend
the king’s court at Westminster, where finally, and after considerable delay, they are acquitted.(221)

Take another instance. The king had shown an interest in the Abbey Church of Westminster, and
had caused a new chapel to be built in 1220, he himself laying the first stone. Thirty years
later, or thereabouts, he made certain concessions to the Abbot of Westminster—what they were
we are not told—but it is certain that they, in some way or other, infringed the rights of
the citizens of London in the County of Middlesex. The king promised to compensate them for
the loss they would sustain; but failing to get their consent by fair promises, he resorted
to his favourite measure of taking the city into his own hands. For fifteen years the dispute
between the citizens and the Abbot as to their respective rights in the County of Middlesex
was kept alive, and was at last determined by a verdict given by the barons of the exchequer,
which completely justified(222) the attitude taken up by the citizens of London.

(M141)

In 1230 he extorted a large sum of money from the citizens at a time when he was meditating
an expedition to the continent for the purpose of recovering lost possessions. The citizens,
however, were not the only sufferers. The religious houses were heavily mulcted, as were also
the Jews, who, whether they would or not, were made to give up one third of their chattels.(223)
Again in 1244, the citizens of London and the Jews were made to open their purse-strings that
the king might the better be able to pay his wine merchant, his wax chandler, and his tailor;
but even then his creditors were not paid in full.(224)

Only once does it appear that the king’s conscience pricked him for the extortions he was continually
practising on the citizens. This was in 1250, when he called the citizens together at Westminster,
and begged their forgiveness for all trespasses, extortions of goods and victuals under the
name of "prises," and for forced loans or talliages. Seeing no other way out of it, the citizens
acceded to his request.(225) As recently as the previous year (1249) he had exacted from them
a sum of £2,000.(226)

(M142)

Henry had been crowned at Gloucester soon after his accession.(227) Nevertheless he was again
crowned—this time in London in 1236, after his marriage with Eleanor of Provence. The city
excelled itself in doing honour to the king and queen as they passed on their way to Westminster:
but the joy of the citizens was damped by the king refusing to allow Andrew Bukerel the mayor
to perform the customary service of assisting the chief butler at the coronation banquet. It
was not a time for raising questions of etiquette, so the mayor pocketed the affront, preferring
to settle the question of the city’s rights at some more convenient time, rather than damp
the general joy of the company by pressing his claim.(228)

(M143)

Yet, notwithstanding his manifestly unjust treatment of the citizens of London, and the cynical
contempt with which he looked upon their ancient claim to the title of "barons," he usually
went through the formality of taking leave of them at Paul’s Cross or at Westminster, before
crossing the sea to Gascony(229) and was not above making use of them when compelled to sell
his plate and jewels to satisfy his debts. In 1252, he even went so far as to grant them a
charter of liberties, but for this concession the citizens had to pay 500 marks.(230)

(M144)

It is scarcely to be wondered at if, when the crisis arrived, and king and barons found themselves
in avowed hostility, the citizens of London joined the popular cause. By the month of June,
1258, the barons had gained their first victory over Henry. He was forced to accept the Provisions
of Oxford, passed by the Mad Parliament,(231) as it came to be called in derision. The Tower
of London was transferred to the custody of the barons, and they were for the future to appoint
the justiciar. Towards the end of July, a deputation from the barons waited upon the mayor
and citizens to learn if they approved of the agreement that had been made with the king.(232)

(M145)

The mayor, aldermen, and citizens, after a hasty consultation, gave their assent, but with
the reservation "saving unto them all their liberties and customs," and the city’s common seal
was set to the so-called "charter" which the deputation had brought.

(M146)

It was not long before the city discovered that the barons were as little likely to respect
its liberties as the king himself. Hugh Bigod, whom they had appointed justiciar gave offence
by the way he exercised his office. In spite of all remonstrance he insisted upon sitting at
the Guildhall to hear pleas, a jurisdiction which belonged exclusively to the sheriffs. He
summoned the bakers of the city to appear before him, and those who were convicted of selling
bread under weight he punished, in a way that was not in conformity with city usage.(233)

(M147)

In November of the following year (1259), Henry took occasion of his departure for the continent
to make some popular concessions to the citizens. He appeared at a Folkmote, which was being
held at Paul’s Cross, and, before taking leave, he announced that in future the citizens should
be allowed to plead their own cases (without employing legal aid) in all the courts of the
city, excepting in pleas of the crown, pleas of land, and of wrongful distress. On the same
day John Mansel who had been one of the king’s justiciars in 1257, when the city was "taken
into the king’s hand," and Fitz-Thedmar had been indicted and deprived of his aldermanry for
upholding the privileges of the citizens(234)—publicly acknowledged on the king’s behalf the
injustice of Fitz-Thedmar’s indictment, and announced that Henry not only recalled him to favour,
but commanded that he should be restored to his former position.(235)

(M148)

During the king’s absence abroad, the barons’ cause was materially strengthened by the support
afforded Simon de Montfort, Earl of Leicester, by the king’s son. Upon hearing of the defection
of his son, Henry hurried back to England. A consultation took place in the city as to the
attitude which the citizens ought to take up, with the result that when Henry appeared (April,
1260), both he and the Earl of Gloucester were admitted into the city, whilst the Earl of Leicester
and "Sir Edward," as the chronicler styles the king’s son, had to find accommodation in the
suburbs.(236)

Henry was now master of the situation. The city was his, and he determined that it should remain
so. Strict watch was kept over the gates, which for the most part, were kept shut night and
day in order to prevent surprise. Every inhabitant of the age of twelve years and upwards was
called upon to take an oath of allegiance before the alderman of his ward, and those of maturer
age were bound to provide themselves with arms. The king, who now ruled again in his own way,
stirred the anger of the barons, by presuming to appoint Philip Basset, his chief justiciar,
without first asking their assent; and the barons retaliated by removing the king’s sheriffs,
and appointing "wardens of the counties" in their stead.(237) In June 1261, Henry produced
a Bull of Alexander IV, annulling the Provisions of Oxford, and freeing him from his oath.(238)

(M149)

For eighteen months the king reigned supreme. The barons could do nothing, and the Earl of
Leicester, finding their cause hopeless, withdrew in August (1261) to France, and remained
there until the spring of 1263, when he returned as the unquestioned head of the baronial party,
to take up arms against the king. The citizens professed loyalty to Henry, who was residing
in the Tower, and bound themselves by oath to acknowledge his son Edward as heir to the crown.(239)
At Whitsuntide, the barons sent a letter to the king requiring him to observe the Provisions
of Oxford, and shortly afterwards, addressed another letter to the citizens "desiring to be
certified by them whether they would observe the said ordinances and statutes made to the honour
of God in fealty to his lordship the king, and to his advantage of all the realm, or would,
in preference, adhere to those who wished to infringe the same."(240)

(M150)

Before sending a reply, the citizens had an interview with the king in the Tower, to whom they
showed the barons’ letter. The result was, that Henry availed himself of their services to
mediate between him and the barons. A deputation of citizens accordingly travelled to Dover,
where an understanding was arrived at between the hostile parties. The citizens were prepared
to support the barons, subject to their fealty to the king and saving their own liberties;
whilst the king promised to dismiss his foreign supporters—the real cause of all the mischief.
Hugh le Despenser, whom Henry had deposed, was again installed justiciar of all England in
the Tower; and the king and his family left the city for Westminster, the day after the barons
entered it. "Thus was a league made between the barons and the citizens with this reservation—’saving
fealty to his lordship the king.’"(241)

(M151)

Whilst the commons of England were thus winning their way to liberty, the commons of the city
were engaged in a similar struggle with the aristocratic element of the municipal government.
The craft guilds cried out against the exclusiveness of the more wealthy and aristocratic trade
guilds, the members of which monopolized the city’s rule. They found an able champion of their
cause in the person of Thomas Fitz-Thomas, the mayor for the time being (1261-1265). The mayor’s
action in the matter disgusted Fitz-Thedmar, the city alderman and chronicler, who complains
that he "so pampered the city populace," that they styled themselves the "commons of the city,"
and had obtained the first voice in the city. The mayor would ask them their will as to whether
this or that thing should be done; and if they answered "ya" "ya," it was done, without consulting
the aldermen or chief citizens, whose very existence was ignored.(242) It is not surprising
that, under a mayor so thoroughly in sympathy with the people, opportunity was taken by the
citizens to rectify abuses from which they had so long suffered. Their trade had been prejudiced
by the number of foreigners which the king had introduced into the city, and accordingly we
read of an attack made on the houses of some French merchants. Rights of way which had been
stopped up, were again opened, and where land had been illegally built upon, the buildings
were abated.

The chronicler complains of the populace acting "like so many justices itinerant." It was in
vain that the king addressed a letter to the mayor and citizens, setting forth that the dissensions
between himself and the barons had been settled, and commanding his peace to be kept as well
within the city as without.(243)

(M152)

The popular movement received every encouragement from the barons. Let those who were disaffected
put their complaints into writing, and the barons would see that the matter was duly laid before
the king, and that the city’s liberties were not diminished. Fortified with such promises,
the mayor set to work at once to organize the craft guilds. Ordinances were drawn up "abominations"
Fitz-Thedmar calls them(244) for the amelioration of the members, and everything was done that
could be done to better their condition.

(M153)

A few days before Henry and the barons had concluded a temporary peace, the citizens had been
greatly excited by an action of the king’s son. Henry was, as usual, in want of money, and
had failed to raise a loan in the city. His son came to his assistance and seized the money
and jewels lying at the Temple (29th June). The citizens were so exasperated at this high-handed
proceeding on the part of the prince that they vented their spleen on the queen, and pelted
her with mud and stones, calling her all kinds of opprobrious names, as she attempted to pass
in her barge under London Bridge on her way from the Tower to Windsor. (13th July).(245)

Such conduct very naturally incensed the king and his son against the citizens. Henry was angry
with them, moreover, for having admitted the barons contrary to his express orders.(246) It
is not surprising, therefore, that when Fitz-Thomas presented himself before the Barons of
the Exchequer to be admitted to the mayoralty for the third year in succession, they refused
to admit him by the king’s orders, Henry "being for many reasons greatly moved to anger against
the city."(247)

(M154)

Before the end of the year (1263), both king and barons agreed to submit to the arbitration
of the King of France. The award known as the Mise of Amien—from the place whence it was issue—which
Louis made on the 23rd Jan., 1264, proved of so one-sided a character that the barons had no
alternative but to reject it. However unjustifiable such repudiation on the part of the barons
may have been from a moral point of view, it was a matter of necessity. Many of them, moreover,
including those of the Cinque Ports, as well as the Londoners, and nearly all the middle class
of England, had not been parties to the arbitration, and therefore, were not pledged to accept
the award.(248)

(M155)

The citizens and the barons now entered into solemn covenant to stand by each other "saving
however their fealty to the king." A constable and a marshal were appointed to command the
city force, which was to stand prepared night and day to muster at the sound of the great bell
of St. Paul’s. The manor of Isleworth, belonging to Richard, King of the Romans, the king’s
brother, was laid waste, and Rochester besieged, but, disturbances again breaking out at home,
Leicester had to hurry back to restore order and prevent the city being betrayed to the king’s
son.(249)

(M156)

In May the earl set out again with a force of Londoners(250) to meet the king, who was threatening
the Cinque Ports. In the early morning of the 14th he came upon the royal army at Lewes. Prince
Edward himself led the charge against the Londoners—he had not forgotten the insult they had
recently offered to his mother—and succeeded in driving them off the field. They scarcely indeed
awaited his onslaught, so unpractised in warfare had they become of recent years, but turned
their backs and sped away towards London, followed in hot pursuit by Edward. When he returned
he found that, owing to his absence, the day was lost, and that his father and brother had
been made prisoners.(251) In spite of his own success, he also had to surrender.

(M157)

The barons returned to the city in triumph, bringing the king and Richard, king of the Romans,
in their train. Edward had been placed in custody in Dover Castle, pending negotiations. Henry
was lodged in the Bishop’s Palace, whilst Richard was committed to the Tower. An agreement
was drawn up which secured the safety of the king, and left all matters of dispute to be again
referred to arbitration.(252) This treaty formed the basis of a new system of government, and
led to the institution of Simon de Montfort’s famous Parliament.

The short respite—for it proved to be no more—from civil war was welcomed by the Londoners.
The city had been drained of a large part of its population in order to increase the Earl of
Leicester’s army, and business had been seriously disturbed. For the past year no Court of
Husting had been held, and therefore no wills or testaments had received probate; whilst all
pleas of land, except trespass, had to stand over until the country became more settled.(253)

(M158)

The parliament which Leicester summoned to meet on the 20th January, 1265, marked a new era
in parliamentary representation. It was the first parliament in which the merchant and the
trader were invited to take their seats beside the baron and bishop. Not only were the shires
to send up two representatives, but each borough and town were to be similarly privileged.(254)

Terms of reconciliation between king and barons were arranged, and once more the mayor and
aldermen did fealty to Henry in person in St. Paul’s church. Fitz-Thomas, who for the fourth
time was mayor, was determined to lose nothing of his character for independence; "My lord,"
said he, when taking the oath, so long as you are willing to be to us a good king and lord,
we will be to you faithful and true."(255)

(M159)

Peace was not destined to last long. Dissensions quickly broke out between Gilbert, Earl of
Gloucester, and Simon de Montfort, owing in a great measure to jealousy. Gloucester insisted
that the Mise of Lewes and the Provisions of Oxford had not been properly observed, hinting
unmistakably at the foreign birth and extraction of his rival. Endeavours were made to arrange
matters by arbitration, but in vain; and by Whitsuntide the two earls were in open hostility.
Gloucester was joined by Edward, who had succeeded by a ruse in escaping from Hereford, where
he was detained in honourable captivity.(256)

(M160)

With their combined forces they fell on Earl Simon at Evesham and utterly defeated him (4 Aug.).
Simon himself was killed, and his body barbarously mutilated.(257) The king, who was in the
earl’s camp, only saved himself by crying out in time "I am Henry of Winchester, your king."
Whilst the battle was raging the city was visited with a terrible thunderstorm—an evil omen
of the future.

If credit be given to every statement made by the city alderman and chronicler, Fitz-Thedmar,
we must believe that the battle of Evesham took place just in time to prevent a wholesale massacre
of the best and foremost men of the city, including the chronicler himself, which was being
contrived by the mayor, the popular Thomas Fitz-Thomas, the no less popular Thomas de Piwelesdon
or Puleston, and others.(258)

(M161)

The citizens of London were soon to experience the change that had taken place in the state
of affairs. The day after Michaelmas, the mayor and citizens proceeded to Westminster to present
the new sheriffs to the Barons of the Exchequer; but finding no one there, they returned home.
The truth was that the king had resorted to his favourite measure of taking the city into his
own hands for its adherence to the late Earl of Leicester; and for five years it so remained,
being governed by a custos or warden appointed by the king, in the place of a mayor elected
by the citizens.(259)

(M162)

There had been some talk of the king meditating an attack upon the city, and treating its inhabitants
as avowed enemies.(260) The very threat of such a proceeding was sufficient to throw the city
into the utmost state of confusion. Some there were "fools and evil-minded persons," as our
chronicler describes them—who favoured resisting force by force; but the "most discreet men"
of the city, and those who had joined the Earl under compulsion, would have none of it, preferring
to solicit the king’s favour through the mediation of men of the religious orders. Henry still
remained unmoved, and the fear of the citizens increased to such an extent that it was finally
resolved that the citizens as a body should make humble submission to the king; and that the
same should be forwarded to him at Windsor under the common seal of the city. Whilst the deputation
bearing this document was on its way it was met by Sir Roger de Leiburn, who turned it back
on the ground that he himself was on his way to the city for the express purpose of arranging
terms of submission.(261)

(M163)

That night Sir Roger lodged at the Tower, and the next morning he went to Barking Church, on
the confines of the city,(262) where he was met by the mayor and a "countless multitude" of
the citizens. The advice he had to give the citizens was that if they wished to be reconciled
to the king, they would have to submit their lives and property unreservedly to his will. Letters
patent were drawn up to that effect under the common seal, and taken by Sir Roger himself to
Windsor. The citizens had not long to wait for an answer. The king’s first demand was the removal
of the posts and chains which had been set up in the streets as a means of defence. His next
was that the mayor—his old antagonist Fitz-Thomas—and the principal men of the city should
come in person to him at Windsor, under letters of safe conduct. Trusting to the royal word,
the mayor and about forty of the more substantial men of the city proceeded to Windsor, there
to await a conference with the king. To their great surprise, the whole of the party were made
to pass the night in the Castle keep. They were practically treated as prisoners.

(M164)

Some regained their liberty, but of Fitz-Thomas nothing more is heard. From the time that he
entered Windsor Castle, he disappears from public view. That he was alive in May, 1266, at
least in the belief of his fellow-citizens, is shown by their cry for the release of him and
his companions "who are at Windleshores." They would again have made him Mayor, if they could
have had their own way. "We will have no one for mayor" (they cried) "save only Thomas Fitz-Thomas."(263)

(M165)

In the meantime the king had himself gone to London and confiscated the property of more than
sixty of the citizens, driving them out of their house and home. Hugh Fitz-Otes, the Constable
of the Tower, had been appointed warden of the city in the place of the imprisoned mayor; bailiffs
had been substituted for sheriffs, and the citizens made to pay a fine of 20,000 marks. Then,
and only then, did the king consent to grant their pardon.(264)

(M166)

Queen Eleanor, who had interceded for the Londoners,(265) was presented by the king with the
custody of London Bridge, the issues and profits of which she was allowed to enjoy. She allowed
the bridge, however, to fall into such decay, that she thought she could not do better than
restore it to its rightful owners. This she accordingly did in 1271, but soon afterwards changed
her mind, and again took the bridge into her charge.(266)

(M167)

At Easter, 1267, the Earl of Gloucester, who had constituted himself the avowed champion of
those who had suffered forfeiture, and become "disinherited" for the part they had taken with
the Earl of Leicester, sought admission to the city. The citizens hesitated to receive him
within their gates, although according to some, he was armed with letters patent of the king
addressed to the citizens on his behalf.(267) Under pretence of holding a conference with the
papal legate at the Church of Holy Trinity, Aldgate, he gained admission for himself and followers:
and there he remained, having made himself master of the city’s gates.(268) Thereupon many
citizens left the city, fearing the wrath of the king, and once more the city was in the hands
of the populace. The leading citizens were placed under a guard; the aldermen and bailiffs
were deposed to make way for the earl’s own supporters, and, for better security, a covered
way of timber was made from the city to the Tower.(269)

Whatever may have been the actual part played by the legate in admitting the disinherited into
the city, he soon showed his dissatisfaction at the state of things within its walls, by leaving
the Tower, to join the king at Ham, and placing the disinherited—"the enemies of the king"—under
an interdict.(270)

(M168)

At length the king and the Earl of Gloucester came to terms (16 June). The earl was to have
his property restored to him, and the city was to be forgiven all trespasses committed against
the king since the time that the earl made his sojourn within its walls. The earl gave surety
in 10,000 marks for keeping the peace, and the citizens paid the king of the Romans 1,000 marks
for damages they had committed three years before in his manor of Isleworth.(271) Not a word
about the imprisoned mayor, Fitz-Thomas!

(M169)

The king’s letters patent granting forgiveness to the citizens for harbouring the Earl of Gloucester(272)
were followed in the spring of the following year by another charter to the city.(273) But
inasmuch as this charter did not restore the mayoralty, the citizens had little cause to be
thankful and looked upon it as only an instalment of favours to come.

(M170)

Towards the end of this year or early in the next (1269), the city was committed by the king
to his son Edward, who ruled it by deputy, Sir Hugh Fitz-Otes being again appointed Constable
of the Tower, and warden of the city.(274) It was through the good offices of the prince, that
the citizens eventually recovered the right to elect their mayor, so long withheld. "About
the same time, that is to say, Pentecost, 1270," writes Fitz-Thedmar, "at the instance of Sir
Edward, his lordship the king granted unto the citizens that they might have a mayor from among
themselves in such form as they were wont to elect him."(275)

(M171)

He further allowed them to choose two sheriffs who should discharge the duties of sheriff,
(qui tenerent vicecomitatem) of the City and Middlesex, as formerly; but instead of the yearly
ferm of £300 in pure silver (sterlingorum blancorum), formerly paid for Middlesex, they were
thenceforth to pay an annual rent of £400 in money counted (sterlingorum computatorum.)(276)

(M172)

The citizens lost no time in exercising their recovered rights. Their choice fell upon John
Adrian for the mayoralty, whilst Philip le Taillour and Walter le Poter were elected sheriffs.
After they had been severally admitted into office—the mayor before the king himself on Wednesday,
the 16th July, and the sheriffs at the Exchequer two days later—the king restored the city’s
charters, and the citizens acknowledged the royal favour by a gift of 100 marks to the king,
and 500 marks to Prince Edward, who had proved so good a friend to them, and who was about
to set out for the Holy Land.(277)

(M173)

Adrian was succeeded in the mayoralty by Walter Hervy, who had already served as sheriff or
bailiff on two occasions, once by royal appointment. He made himself so popular with the "commons"
of the city during his year of office, that when October, 1272, came round and the aldermen
and more "discreet" citizens were in favour of electing Philip le Taillour as his successor,
the commons or "mob of the city"—as the chronicler prefers to style them—cried out, "Nay, nay,
we will have no one for mayor but Walter Hervi."(278)

(M174)

The aldermen finding themselves in a minority, appealed to the king and council at Westminster.
Hervy did the same, being accompanied to Westminster by a large number of supporters, who took
the opportunity of the aldermen laying their case before the council to insist loudly, as they
waited in the adjacent hall, upon their own right of election and their choice of Hervy. It
was feared that the noise might disturb the king who was confined to his bed with what proved
to be his last illness. All parties was therefore dismissed, injunction being laid upon Hervy
not to appear again with such a following, but to come with only ten or a dozen supporters
at the most.

(M175)

Hervy paid no heed to this warning, but continued to present himself at Westminster every day
for a fortnight, accompanied by his supporters in full force, expecting an answer to be given
by the council. At length the council resolved to submit the whole question to arbitration,
the city in the meanwhile being placed in the custody of a warden. Before the arbitrators got
to work, the king died (16 Nov.), and rather than the city should continue to be disturbed
at such a crisis, the aldermen agreed to a compromise, and Hervy was allowed to be mayor for
one year more.(279)

CHAPTER V.

(M176)

Although the aldermen had been prevailed upon to give their assent to Hervy’s election to the
mayoralty, his democratic tendencies made him an object of dislike, more especially to Fitz-Thomas.
When, therefore, that chronicler records that throughout Hervy’s year of office he did not
allow any pleading in the Husting for Pleas of Land except very rarely, for the reason that
the mayor himself was defendant in a suit brought against him by Isabella Bukerel,(280) we
hesitate to place implicit belief in his statement.(281) We are inclined, moreover, to give
less credit to anything that Fitz-Thedmar may say against the mayor when we bear in mind that
the former had a personal grievance against the latter.(282)

(M177)

Hervy was a worthy successor to Fitz-Thomas, and, under his government, the craft guilds improved
their position. Fresh ordinances for the regulation of various crafts were drawn up, and to
these the mayor, on his own responsibility, attached the city seal.(283) When Hervy’s year
of office expired—these so-called "charters" were called in question as having been unauthorised
by the aldermen of the city and as tending to favour the richer members of the guilds to the
prejudice of the poorer. After a "wordy and most abusive dispute" carried on in the Guildhall
between the ex-mayor and Gregory de Rokesley who acted as spokesman for the body of aldermen,
Hervy left the hall and summoned the craft-guilds to meet him in Cheapside. There he told them
that it was the wish of Henry le Galeys (or Waleys) the mayor and others to infringe their
charters, but that if they could stand by him he would maintain those charters in all their
integrity.

Fearing lest a riot might follow, the chancellor—Walter de Merton, through whose mediation
Hervy had been at last accepted as mayor by the aldermen—ordered his arrest. This was on the
20th December, 1273. Hervy was, accordingly, attached but released on bail, and early in the
following January (1274), his charters were duly examined in the Husting before all the people,
and declared void. Thenceforth, every man was to enjoy the utmost freedom in following his
calling, always provided that his work was good and lawful.(284)

(M178)

When the mayor removed certain butchers’ and fishmongers’ stalls from Cheapside, in order that
the main thoroughfare of the city might present a creditable appearance to the king on his
return from abroad, the owners of the stalls, who complained of being disturbed in their freeholds—"having
given to the sheriff a great sum of money for the same"—found a champion in Hervy. Their cause
was pleaded at the Guildhall, and such "a wordy strife" arose between Hervy and the mayor,
that the session had to be broken up, and Hervy’s conduct was reported to the king’s council.
The next day, upon the resumption of the session, a certain roll was produced and publicly
read, in which "the presumptuous acts and injuries, of most notorious character" which Hervy
was alleged to have committed during his mayoralty were set forth at length.

(M179) (M180)

The charges against him were eight in number, of which some at least appear to be in the last
degree frivolous. He had on a certain occasion borne false witness; he had failed on another
occasion to attend at Westminster upon a summons; he had failed to observe all the assizes
made by the aldermen and had allowed ale to be sold in his ward for three halfpence a gallon;
he had taken bribes for allowing corn and wine to be taken out of the city for sale, and he
had misappropriated a sum of money which had been raised for a special purpose. Such was the
general run of the charges brought against him, in addition to which were the charges of having
permitted the guilds to make new statutes to their own advantage and to the loss of the city
and all the realm, as already narrated, and of having procured "certain persons of the city,
of Stebney, of Stratford, and of Hakeneye" to make an unjust complaint against the mayor, "who
had warranty sufficient for what he had done, namely, the council of his lordship the king."
This last charge had reference to the recent removal of tradesmen’s stalls from Chepe. No defence
appears to have been allowed Hervy. The charges were read, and he was then and there declared
to be "judicially degraded from his aldermanry and for ever excluded from the council of the
city"; a precept being at the same time issued for the immediate election of a successor, to
be presented at the next court.(285)

(M181)

From this time forward nothing more is heard of Hervy. The same cloud envelopes his later history,
that gathered round the last years of his predecessor and political tutor Thomas Fitz-Thomas.
The misfortune of both of these men was that they lived before their age. Their works bore
fruit long after they had departed. The trade or craft guilds, as distinguished from the more
wealthy and influential mercantile guilds, eventually played an important part in the city.
Under Edward II, no stranger could obtain the freedom of the city (without which, he could
do little or nothing), unless he became a member of one of these guilds, or sought the suffrages
of the commonalty of the city, before admission to the freedom in the Court of Husting.(286)

The normal and more expeditious way of obtaining the freedom was thus through a guild. If Hervy
or Fitz-Thomas lived till the year 1319, when the Ordinances just cited received the king’s
sanction, he must have felt that the struggle he had made to raise the lesser guilds had not
been in vain. The mercantile element in the city, which had formerly overcome the aristocratic
element,(287) in its turn gave way to the numerical superiority and influence of the craft
and manufacturing element. Hence it was that in 1376—when the number of trade or craft guilds
in the city compared with the larger mercantile guilds was as forty to eight—the guilds succeeded
in wresting for a while from the wards the right of electing members of the city’s council.(288)

(M182)

In the meantime, King Edward I, arrived in London (18th August, 1274), where he was heartily
welcomed by the citizens,(289) and was crowned the following day. He had expected to have returned
much earlier, and had addressed a letter to the mayor, sheriffs, and commonalty of the City
of London, eighteen months before, informing them of his purposed speedy return, and of his
wishes that they should endeavour to preserve the peace of the realm.(290) He was, however,
detained in France.

(M183)

Edward’s right to succeed his father was never disputed. For the first time in the annals of
England, a new king commences to reign immediately after the death of his predecessor. Le Roi
est mort, vive le Roi! Within a week of his father’s decease, a writ was issued, in which the
hereditary right of succession was distinctly asserted as forming Edward’s title to the crown.(291)

(M184)

Before setting sail for England, Edward despatched a letter (3rd April), "to his well-beloved,
the mayor, barons, and reputable men of London," thanking them for the preparations he understood
they were making for the ceremony of his coronation, and bidding them send a deputation of
four of the more discreet of the citizens, to him at Paris, for the purpose of a special conference.(292)

(M185)

The difficulty which gave rise to this conference and to the signal mark of distinction bestowed
upon the citizens of London, proved to be of a commercial character, and, as such, one upon
which the opinions of the leading merchants of London would be of especial value. Ever since
the year 1270, the commercial relationship between England and Flanders had been strained.
The Countess of Flanders had thought fit to lay hands upon the wool and other merchandise belonging
to English merchants found within her dominions, and to appropriate the same to her own use.
Edward’s predecessor on the throne had thereupon issued a writ to the mayor and sheriffs of
London, forbidding in future the export of wool to any parts beyond sea whatsoever,(293) but
this measure not having the desired effect, he shortly afterwards had recourse to reprisals.

On the 28th June, 1270, a writ had been issued to the same parties ordering them to seize the
goods of all Flemings, Hainaulters, and other subjects of the Countess, for the purpose of
satisfying the claims of English merchants; and all subjects of the Countess, except those
workmen who had received express permission to come to England for the purpose of making cloth,
and those who had taken to themselves English wives, and had obtained a domicile in this country,
were to quit the realm by a certain date.(294) Those Flemings who neglected this injunction
were to be seized and kept in custody until further orders, and the same measures were to be
taken with those who harboured them. In the meantime, an inquisition was ordered to be made
as to the amount and value of the goods seized by the Countess, and the English merchants were
to lodge their respective claims for compensation.

(M186)

The interruption of trade between England—at that time the chief wool-exporting country in
the world—and Flanders where the cloth-working industry especially flourished, caused much
tribulation; and the King of France, the Duke of Brabant, and other foreign potentates, whose
subjects began to feel the effect of this commercial disturbance, addressed letters to the
King of England, requesting that their merchants might enter his realm and stay, and traffic
there as formerly. They had never offended the King or his people; the Countess of Flanders
was the sole offender, and she alone ought to be punished. The matter having received due consideration,
the embargo on the export of wool was taken off with respect to all countries, except Flanders,
with the proviso that no wool should be exported out of the kingdom without special license
from the king.(295)

By the month of October, 1271, the inquisitors, who had been appointed to appraise the goods
and chattels of Flemings in England, were able to report to parliament that their value amounted
to £8,000 "together with the king’s debt," whilst the value of merchandise belonging to English
merchants and seized by the countess amounted to £7,000, besides chattels of other merchants.
Parliament again sat in January of the new year to consider the claims of English merchants,
when those whose goods had been taken in Flanders, "and the Londoners more especially," appeared
in person. Each stated the amount of his loss and the amount of goods belonging to Flemings
which he had in hand, and a balance was struck. An inquisition was, at the same time, taken
in each of the city wards, as to the number of merchants who bought, sold, exchanged, or harboured
the goods of persons belonging to the dominion of the Countess; and also as to who had taken
wools out of England to the parts beyond the sea, contrary to the king’s prohibition.(296)
Many Flemings, still lurking in the city, were arrested, and only liberated on condition they
abjured the realm so long as the dispute between England and Flanders should continue. Nearly
six months elapsed before any further steps were taken by either party in the strife. The Countess
then showed signs of giving way. Envoys from her arrived in England. She was willing to make
satisfaction to all English merchants for the losses they had sustained, but this was to be
subject to the condition that the king should bind himself to discharge certain alleged debts,
which had been the cause of all the mischief from the outset, within a fixed time. In the event
of the king failing to discharge these claims, the justice of which he never recognised, the
Countess was to be allowed to distrain all persons coming into her country from England by
their bodies and their goods, until satisfaction should be made for arrears. This haughty message
only made matters worse. The king and his council became indignant, and contemptuously dismissed
the envoys, commanding them to leave England within three days on peril of life and limb.(297)

(M187)

Time went on; Henry died, and before his son Edward arrived in England from the Holy Land to
take up the reins of government, his chancellor, Walter de Merton, had caused a proclamation
to be made throughout the city, forbidding any Fleming to enter the kingdom, under penalty
of forfeiture of person and goods. The proclamation was more than ordinarily stringent, for
it went on to say that if perchance any individual had received special permission from the
late king to sojourn and to trade within the realm, such permission was no longer to hold good,
but the foreigner was to pack up his merchandise, collect his debts, and leave the country
by Christmas, 1273, at the latest.(298)

(M188)

The Countess had probably hoped that a change of monarch on the English throne would have favoured
her cause. This proclamation was sufficient to show her the character of the king with whom
she had in future to deal, and destroyed any hope she may have entertained in this direction.
She therefore took the opportunity of Edward’s passing through Paris to London, to open negotiations
for the purpose of restoring peace between England and Flanders; and it was to assist the king
in conducting these negotiations, that he had summoned a deputation of citizens of London to
meet him at Paris.

(M189)

The choice of the citizens fell upon Henry le Waleys, their mayor for the time being, one who
was known almost as well in France as in the city of London, if we may judge from the fact
of his filling the office of Mayor of Bordeaux in the following year. With him were chosen
Gregory de Rokesley who, besides being a large dealer in wool, was also a goldsmith and financier,
and as such was shortly to be appointed master of the exchange throughout England;(299) John
Horn, whose name bespeaks his Flemish origin,(300) and who may on that account have been appointed,
as one who was intimate with both sides of the question under discussion; and Luke de Batencurt,
also of foreign extraction, who was one of the Sheriffs of London this same year.

(M190)

These four accordingly set out to confer with the king at Paris, having previously seen to
the appointment of wardens over the city, and of magistrates to determine complaints which
might arise at the fair to be held at St. Botolph’s, or Boston, in Lincolnshire, during their
absence.(301) The deputation were absent a month. On the 19th July, Gregory de Rokesle and
certain others whose names are not mentioned again set out in compliance with orders received
from the king; the object of their journey being, as we are expressly told, to treat of peace
between the king and the Countess of Flanders at Montreuil.(302) A month later Edward himself
was in England.

(M191)

The king ruled the city, as indeed he ruled the rest of the kingdom, with a strong hand. Londoners
had already experienced the force of his arm and his ability in the field, when he scattered
them at Lewes; they were now to experience the benefit of his powers of organization in time
of peace. Fitz-Thedmar’s chronicle now fails us, but we have a new source of information in
the letter books(303) of the Corporation.

(M192)

The first and the most pressing difficulty which presented itself to Edward, was the re-organization
of finance. Without money the barons could not be kept within legitimate bounds. Having won
their cause against the usurpations of the crown, they began to turn their arms upon each other,
and it required Edward’s strong hand not only to impose order upon his unruly nobles, but also,
to bring Scotland and Wales into submission. The country was flooded with clipt coin. This
was called in, and new money minted at the Tower, under the supervision of Gregory de Rokesley
as Master of the Exchange.(304) Parliament made large grants to the king; and he further increased
his resources by imposing knighthood upon all freeholders of estates worth £20 a year.(305)
When the Welsh war was renewed in 1282, the city sent him 6,000 marks by the hands of Waleys
and Rokesley.(306)

(M193)

In 1283 an extraordinary assembly—styled a parliament by some chroniclers—was summoned to meet
at Shrewsbury to attend the trial of David, brother of Llewelyn, Prince of Wales. To this so-called
parliament the city sent no less than six representatives, viz.: Henry le Waleys, the mayor,
Gregory de Rokesley, Philip Cissor, or the tailor, Ralph Crepyn, Joce le Acatour, or merchant,
and John de Gisors.(307) Their names are worthy of record, inasmuch as they are the first known
representatives of the city in any assembly deserving the name of a parliament, the names of
those attending Simon de Montfort’s parliament not having been transmitted to us. David was
convicted and barbarously executed, his head being afterwards carried to London, and set up
on the Tower, where his brother’s head, with a mock crown of ivy, had recently been placed.(308)

(M194)

Of Ralph Crepyn, one of the city’s representatives at Shrewsbury, a tragic story is told. Meeting,
one day, Laurence Duket, his rival in the affections of a woman known as "Alice atte Bowe,"
the two came to blows, and Crepyn was wounded. The affray took place in Cheapside, and Duket,
fearing he had killed his man, sought sanctuary in Bow Church. Crepyn’s friends, hearing of
the matter, followed and having killed Duket, disposed of their victim’s body in such a way
as to suggest suicide. It so happened, however, that the sacrilegious murder had been witnessed
by a boy who informed against the culprits and no less than sixteen persons were hanged for
the part they had taken in it. Alice, herself, was condemned to be burnt alive as being the
chief instigator of the murder; others, including Ralph Crepyn, were sent to the Tower, and
only released on payment of heavy fines.(309) The church was placed under interdict, the doors
and windows being filled with thorns until purification had been duly made. Duket’s remains,
which had been interred as those of a suicide, were afterwards taken up and received the rights
of Christian burial in Bow Churchyard.

(M195)

The year 1285 was a memorable one both for London and the kingdom. It witnessed the passing
of two important statutes. In the first place the statute De Donis legalised the principle
of tying up real estate, so as to descend, in an exclusive perpetual line; in other words,
it sanctioned entails, and its effect is still experienced at the present day in every ordinary
settlement of land. In the next place the Assise of Arms of Henry II was improved so as to
secure for the king a national support in the time of danger. In every hundred and franchise
each man’s armour was to be viewed twice a year; and defaults reported to the king "who would
find a remedy." The gates of walled towns were to be closed from sun-set to sun-rise, and watch
and ward were to be kept as strictly as in times past, "that is to wit, from the day of the
Ascension until the day of S. Michael, in every city by six men at every gate; in every borough,
twelve men; every town, six or four, according to the number of the inhabitants of the town,
and they shall watch the town continually all night from the sun-setting unto the sun-rising."(310)
Three years previous to the passing of this statute the mayor, alderman and chamberlain had
made very similar provisions for the keeping of the City of London, the city’s gates, and the
river Thames.(311)

(M196)

For the city, the year was a memorable one, owing to the suspension of its franchise. The circumstances
which caused the loss of its liberties for a period of thirteen years (1285-1298) were these.
The king’s justiciars were sitting at the Tower, where the mayor, sheriffs, and aldermen of
the city had been summoned to attend. Owing to some informality in the summons, Gregory de
Rokesley, the Mayor, declined to attend in his official capacity, but formally "deposed himself"
at the Church of All Hallows Barking—the limit of the city jurisdiction— by handing the city’s
seal to Stephen Aswy or Eswy, a brother alderman. On entering the chamber where sat the justiciars,
the mayor excused his unofficial appearance on the ground of insufficient notice. This was
not what the justiciars had been accustomed to. On the contrary, the citizens had usually shown
studied respect towards the justiciars whenever they came to the Tower for the purpose of holding
pleas of the crown.

(M197)

The rules of procedure on such occasions are fully set out in the city’s "Liber Albus,"(312)
and they contain, curiously enough, a provision expressly made for cases where the full notice
of forty days had not been given. In such an event the prescribed rule was to send some of
their more discreet citizens to the king and his council to ask for the appointment of another
day. Whether Rokesley had taken this step before resorting to the measures he did we are not
told. It was also the custom on such occasions for the citizens to gather at Barking Church,
clothed in their best apparel, and thence proceed in a body to the Tower. A deputation was
appointed—selected members of the common council—who should also proceed to the Tower for the
purpose of giving an official welcome to the justiciars on behalf of the citizens. It was not
thought to be in any way derogatory to secure the goodwill of the king’s justiciars by making
ample presents. It had been done time out of mind. The sheriffs and aldermen were to attend
with their respective sergeants and beadles, the benches at the Tower were to be examined beforehand
and necessary repairs carried out, all shops were to be closed and no business transacted during
the session. In a word, everything was to be done that could add to the dignity of the justiciars
and the solemnity of the occasion. In contrast with all this, Rokesley’s conduct was indeed
strange, and leads us to suppose that his action was caused by some other and stronger reason
than the mere omission to give the usual notice of the coming of the king’s justiciars.

(M198)

Be this as it may, the king’s treasurer, who may possibly have been forewarned of what was
about to take place, at once decided what course to take. He declared the city to be there
and then taken into the king’s hands, on the pretext that it was found to be without a mayor,
and he summoned the citizens to appear on the morrow before the king at Westminster. When the
morrow came, the citizens duly appeared, and about eighty of them were detained. Those who
accompanied Rokesley to Barking Church on the previous day were confined in the Tower, but
after a few days they were all set at liberty, with the exception of Stephen Aswy, who was
removed in custody to Windsor.(313)

(M199)

The king appointed Ralph de Sandwich custos or warden of the city, enjoining him at the same
time to observe the liberties and customs of the citizens, and for the next thirteen years
(1285-1298) the city continued to be governed by a warden in the person of Sandwich or of John
le Breton, whilst the sheriffs were sometimes appointed by the Exchequer and sometimes chosen
by the citizens.(314)

(M200)

In May, 1286, the king went to Gascony, leaving the country in charge of his nephew, Edmund,
Earl of Cornwall, and did not return until August, 1289. He was then in sore straits for money,
as was so often the case with him, and was glad of a present of £1,000 which the citizens offered
by way of courtesy (curialitas). The money was ordered (14th October) to be levied by poll,(315)
but many of the inhabitants were so poor that they could only find pledges for future payment,
and these pledges were afterwards sold for what they would fetch.(316) A twelve-month later
(October, 1290) when Edward visited London, he was fain to be content with the smaller sum
of 1,000 marks.(317)

(M201)

The expulsion of the Jews in 1290 increased Edward’s difficulties, for on them he chiefly depended
for replenishing his empty exchequer. Their expulsion was not so much his own wish as the wish
of his subjects, who, being largely in debt to the Jews, regarded them as cruel tyrants. The
nation soon discovered that it had made a mistake in thus getting rid of its creditors, for
in the absence of the Jews, Edward was compelled to resort to the Lombard merchants. It may
possibly have been owing to some monetary transactions between them that the king was solicitous
of getting a life interest in the city’s Small Beam made over to a lady known as Jacobina la
Lumbard. No particulars are known of this lady, but to judge from her name she probably came
of a family of money-lenders, and if so, the king’s action in writing from Berwick (28th June,
1291) to the warden and aldermen of the city—at a time when he was completely in the hands
of the Italian goldsmiths and money-lenders—soliciting for her a more or less lucrative post
is easily intelligible.(318) The king’s request was refused, notwithstanding the city being
at the time in charge of a custos of his own choice instead of a mayor elected by the citizens
themselves. Such requests produced friction between the king and the city, and the former’s
financial relations with the foreign merchants were fraught with danger to himself and to his
son.(319)

(M202)

Edward’s anxiety was in the meanwhile increased by domestic troubles. In 1290 he suffered a
bitter disappointment by the death of a Scottish princess who was affianced to his son, the
Prince of Wales, and thus a much-cherished plan for establishing friendly relations between
the two countries was frustrated.  But this disappointment was quickly cast in the shade by
the more severe affliction he suffered in the loss of his wife. In November Queen Eleanor died.
Her corpse was brought from Lincoln to Westminster, and the bereaved husband ordered a memorial
cross to be set up at each place where her body rested. One of these crosses was erected at
the west end of Cheapside. After the Reformation the images with which the cross was ornamented,
like the image of Becket set over the gate of the Mercers’ Chapel, roused the anger of the
iconoclast, who took delight in defacing them.

(M203)

Time only increased the king’s pecuniary difficulties. In February, 1292, all freeholders of
land of the annual value of £40 were ordered to receive knighthood, and in the following January
the estates of defaulters were seized by the king’s orders.(320) In June, 1294, war was declared
against France. Money must be had. Every monastery and every church throughout England was
ransacked for treasure, and the sum of £2,000, found in St. Paul’s Church, was appropriated
for the public service.(321) The dean was seized with a fit (subita percussus passione) and
died in the king’s presence.(322)

(M204)

Instead of invading France, Edward found his own shores devastated by a French fleet, whilst
at the same time his hands were full with fresh difficulties from Scotland and Wales. In the
summer of 1295, the city furnished the king with three ships, the cost being defrayed by a
tax of twopence in the pound charged on chattels and merchandise. John le Breton, then warden,
advanced the sum of £40, which the aldermen and six men of each ward undertook to repay.(323)
In the following year (1296) the city agreed, after some little hesitation, to furnish forty
men with caparisoned horses, and fifty arbalesters for the defence of the south coast, under
the king’s son, Edward of Carnarvon.(324)

(M205)

Edward again turned his attention to Scotland, and, having succeeded in reducing Balliol to
submission, he carried off from Scone the stone which legend identifies with Jacob’s pillow,
and on which the Scottish kings had from time immemorial been crowned,(325) By Edward’s order
the stone was enclosed in a stately seat, and placed in Westminster Abbey, where it has since
served as the coronation chair of English sovereigns.

(M206)

From Berwick Edward issued (26 Aug., 1296,) writs for a Parliament to meet at Bury St. Edmund’s,
in the following November. The constitution of this Parliament was the same as that which had
met at Westminster in November of the previous year (1295) and which was intended to serve
as a model parliament, a pattern for all future national assemblies. The city was represented
by two aldermen, namely, Sir Stephen Aswy, or Eswy, who had been confined in Windsor Castle
ten years before for his conduct towards the king’s justiciars at the Tower, and Sir William
de Hereford.(326) From this time forward down to the present day we have little difficulty
in discovering from one source or another the names of the city’s representatives in successive
parliaments. Edward, of course, wanted money. The barons and knights increased their former
grants; so also did the burgesses. The clergy, on the other hand, declared themselves unable
to make any grant at all in the face of a papal prohibition,(327) and the king was at last
driven to seize the lay fees of the clergy of the province of Canterbury. In the spring of
the following year he proceeded to seize all the wool of the country, paying for it by tallies,
and to levy a supply of provisions on the counties. The act was only justifiable on the plea
of necessity, and led to measures being taken to prevent its repetition.(328)

(M207)

It was an easier matter for Edward to raise money than to get the barons to accompany him abroad.
To leave them behind was to risk the peace of the country. He therefore spared no efforts to
persuade them to join in a projected expedition, and when persuasion failed tried threats.
It was his desire that the barons should go to Gascony, whilst he took the command in Flanders.
This was not at all to the taste of the barons, who declined to go abroad, except in the personal
retinue of the king himself. "With you, O king," said Roger Bigod, "I will gladly go; as belongs
to me by hereditary right, I will go in front of the host, before your face;" but without the
king he positively declined to move. "By God, earl," cried the king, fairly roused by the obstinacy
of his vassal, "you shall either go or hang;" to which the earl replied, with equal determination,
"By the same token, O king, I will neither go nor hang."(329)

Nothing daunted, the king issued writs (15 May) for a military levy of the whole kingdom for
service abroad, to meet at London on the 7th July, a measure as unconstitutional as the seizure
of wool and the levying of taxes without the assent of Parliament. On the day appointed, the
barons, who had received a large accession of strength from the great vassals, appeared with
their forces at St. Paul’s; but instead of complying with the king’s demands—or rather requests,
for the king had altered his tone—they prepared a list of their grievances.

(M208)

With difficulty civil war was avoided, and in August Edward set sail for Flanders. No sooner
was his back turned, than the barons and the Londoners made common cause in insisting upon
a confirmation and amplification of their charters.(330) Prince Edward, the king’s son, who
had been appointed regent in his father’s absence, granted all that was asked, and on the 10th
October (1297), the Confirmatio Cartarum, as it was called, was issued in the king’s name.(331)
Thenceforth, no customs duties were to be exacted without the consent of parliament.

(M209)

In view of the king’s return to England in March (1298), the warden of the city, Sir John Breton,
the aldermen, and a deputation from the wards met together and resolved that every inhabitant
of the city, citizen and stranger, should pay to the king’s collectors the sum of sixpence
in the pound of all their goods up to £100.(332) In the following month Edward issued letters
patent (11th April), restoring to the citizens their franchises and the right of again electing
their mayor.(333) The choice of the citizens fell upon Henry le Waleys, who was duly admitted
by the Barons of the Exchequer after presentation to the king.(334)

(M210)

In the summer Edward marched to Scotland for the purpose of putting down the rising under Wallace.
An account of the battle of Falkirk, fought on the 22nd July, was conveyed to the mayor, aldermen,
and "barons" of London, by letter from Walter Langton, Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, or,
as he was then styled, Bishop of Chester, who wrote as an eye-witness, if not indeed as a partaker
in that day’s work.(335) It was the first battle of any consequence in which the English long-bow
was brought into prominence. Edward’s victory was complete. The enemy’s loss was great, the
number that perished, according to the bishop’s information, being two hundred men-at-arms
and twenty thousand foot soldiers. Edward was unable, however, to follow up his success for
want of supplies, and so retreated. In 1304, he again marched northward, notwithstanding the
defection of many nobles. He had previously resorted once more to the questionable practice
of talliaging the city of London,(336) levying from the citizens the fifteenth penny of their
moveable goods and the tenth penny of their rents.(337) The campaign was eminently successful.
Sterling surrendered after a siege of two months, and Wallace himself shortly afterwards fell
into his hands, having refused the terms of an amnesty which Edward had generously offered.

(M211)

He was carried to London, where a crowd of men and women flocked out to meet one, of whose
gigantic stature and feats of strength they had heard so much. He was lodged in the house of
William de Leyre, an alderman of the city, situate in the parish of All Hallows at the Hay
or All Hallows the Great. Having been tried at Westminster and condemned to death on charges
of treason, sacrilege and robbery, he was hanged, drawn, and quartered, and his head set up
on London Bridge.(338)

(M212)

No sooner was Wallace disposed of than another claimant to the Scottish crown appeared in the
person of Bruce. Before Edward took the field against the new foe, he conferred knighthood
upon his son and nearly three hundred others, including John le Blound the mayor. The number
of knights within the small compass of the city was reckoned at that time to be not less than
a thousand.(339) Knighthood, as we have seen, was one of the means Edward resorted to for raising
money, and on this occasion the citizens of London are said to have made him a free gift of
£2,000, in recognition of the honour bestowed on their mayor.(340)

(M213)

In the summer of 1307, Edward set out to execute the vow of vengeance against Bruce that he
had made on the occasion of the knighthood of his son, but the hand of death was upon him,
and before lie reached the Scottish border he died (7th July).

CHAPTER VI.

(M214)

The new king’s character, differing as it did so much from that of his father, was not one
to commend itself to the citizens of London. With them he never became a favourite. The bold
and determined character of Queen Isabel, the very antipodes of her husband, was more to their
liking, and throughout the contests that ensued between them, the citizens steadily supported
her cause. At her first appearance, as a bride, in the city, the streets were compared with
the New Jerusalem, so rich were they in appearance;(341) whilst at the coronation ceremony,
which took place a month later (25th February, 1308), she and her husband were escorted by
the mayor and aldermen in their most gorgeous robes, quartered with the arms of England and
France, and were served at the banquet as custom commanded.(342)

(M215)

But even thus early in Edward of Carnarvon’s reign the presence of foreigners—to whom the king
was even more addicted than his father—was likely to prove a source of trouble; and it was
necessary to make special proclamations forbidding the carrying of arms on the day of the coronation
and enjoining respect for foreigners attending the ceremony.(343) The king’s foreign favourites
proved his ruin, and contributed in no small degree to the eventual defection of the city.
They were for ever desiring some favour of the citizens. At one time it was Piers de Gavestone
who wanted a post for his "valet";(344) at another it was Hugh le Despenser who desired (and
obtained) a lease of the Small Beam for a friend.(345) The friend only held the Beam for little
more than six months, and then, at the urgent request of the queen herself, it was given to
another.(346)

(M216)

The barons were especially irritated at being supplanted by the king’s favourites, and in 1308
succeeded in getting Edward to send Gaveston out of England. In the following year, however,
he was recalled, and the barons became so exasperated that in 1310, when the king summoned
an assembly of bishops and barons, the latter appeared, contrary to orders, in full military
array. The king could not do otherwise than submit to their dictation. Ordainers were appointed
from among the barons for the purpose of drawing up ordinances for the government of the kingdom.
These ordinances were promulgated in their complete form in 1311, when they received the sanction
of a parliament assembled at the House of the Black Friars, in the month of August, and were
afterwards publicly proclaimed in St. Paul’s Churchyard,(347) special precautions being taken
at the time to safeguard the gates of the city by night and day.(348) Gaveston was condemned
to banishment for life.

(M217)

In the meantime, whilst the Ordainers were engaged on their work, Edward had put himself at
the head of his army and marched against the Scots, who were rapidly gaining ground under Bruce.
He remained on the border until July, 1311, trying every means to raise money. In March of
that year the city sent him one thousand marks, by the hands of Roger le Palmere and William
de Flete, the mayor, Richer de Refham, contributing no less than one hundred pounds of the
whole sum. The money was despatched on horseback, tied up in baskets covered with matting and
bound with cords, and the cost of every particular is set out in the city’s records.(349)

(M218)

Refham was a mayor of the popular type. He had already suffered deprivation of his aldermanry
for some reason or another, but was reinstated in 13O2.(350) No sooner was he chosen mayor
than he caused a collection to be made of the ancient liberties and customs of the city, from
the books and rolls preserved in the city’s Chamber, and having assembled the aldermen and
best men of the city, he caused them to be publicly read. This having been done, he next proceeded
to ask the assembly if it was their will that these ancient customs and liberties, which had
so often been infringed by the removal of mayors and sheriffs, should be for the future maintained.
Their answer being given unanimously in the affirmative, he at once took steps to obtain the
king’s writ of confirmation, and caused them to be proclaimed throughout the city. He made
a perambulation of the city and abated all nuisances and encroachments. He went further than
this. For some time past the streets had been rendered unsafe to pass after dark by bands of
rioters who at that day were known by the sobriquet of "roreres." A few years later, the same
class went under the name of "riffleres." They were the precursors of the "Muns," the "Tityre
Tus," the "Hectors," and the "Scourers,"—dynasties of tyrants, as Macaulay styles them, which
domineered over the streets of London, soon after the Restoration, and at a later period were
superseded by the "Nickers," the "Hawcubites," and the still more dreaded "Mohawks," of Queen
Anne’s reign. By whatever name they happened at the time to be known, their practice was the
same, viz.:—assault and robbery of peaceful citizens whose business or pleasure carried them
abroad after sundown.

During Refham’s mayoralty, a raid was made on all common nightwalkers, "bruisers" (pugnatores),
common "roreres," wagabunds and others, and many were committed to prison, to the great relief
of the more peaceably disposed.(351)

His strictness and impartiality were such as to raise up enemies, and an excuse was found for
removing him not only from the office of mayor, but once again from his aldermanry.(352) On
this point, however, the city archives are altogether silent, they only record the appointment
of his successor to the mayoralty chair at the usual time and in the usual manner.

(M219)

In January, 1312, the king returned to the north, and as soon as he had arrived at York ignored
the ordinance touching Gaveston, and instead of sending his favourite into exile, received
him into favour and restored his forfeited estates. Foreseeing the storm that he would have
to meet from the barons, the king wrote from Knaresborough (9th Jan.) to Refham’s successor,
John de Gisors, enjoining him to put the city into a state of defence, and not allow armed
men to enter on any pretext whatever.(353) On the 21st he wrote again, not only to the mayor,
but to nineteen leading men of the city, exhorting them to hold the city for him.(354) Other
letters followed in quick succession—on the 24th and 31st January and the 8th February—all
couched in similar terms.(355) When, however, he saw how hopeless his case was, Edward sent
word to the mayor and sheriffs that the barons might be admitted provided the city was still
held for the king. Accordingly the barons were admitted without bloodshed, and held consultation
at St. Paul’s as to what was best to be done.(356) Gaveston’s days were numbered. On the 12th
June he was forced to surrender unconditionally to the Earl of Warwick, and that day week was
beheaded without the semblance of a trial.(357)

The influence he had exercised over the king had been remarkable from their youth. The son
of a Gascon knight, he had been brought up with Edward as his foster brother and playfellow,
and in course of time the strong will of the favourite gained a complete mastery over the weaker
will of the prince. But his arrogant behaviour soon raised such a storm among the nobles at
Court that he was forced to leave England. When Edward succeeded to the throne, one of his
first acts was to recall Gaveston, to whom he gave his own niece in marriage, after having
bestowed upon him the Earldom of Cornwall. The king seemed never tired of heaping wealth upon
his friend. Among other things, he bestowed upon his favourite (28th Aug., 1309) the sum of
100 shillings payable out of the rent of £50 due from the citizens of London for Oueenhithe,
to be held by him, his wife, and the heirs of their bodies.(358)

Both of them had friends and enemies in common. As Prince of Wales, Edward had made an attempt
to encroach upon some woods belonging to Walter Langton, Bishop of Chester. This caused a breach
between father and son, and the prince was banished from Court for a whole half-year. Gaveston
also bore the same bishop a grudge, for it was owing in a great measure to Langton’s influence
as treasurer to Edward I that he was in the first instance forced into exile. When the prince
succeeded his father, there came a day of retribution for the bishop; his property was handed
over to Gaveston, and he himself carried prisoner from castle to castle by the now all powerful
favourite. A proclamation was also issued at the instance of Gaveston, inviting complaints
against the bishop.(359)

(M220)

Edward had purposed holding a parliament at Lincoln towards the end of July, 1312, but the
turn that affairs had taken induced him to change his mind, and he summoned it to meet at Westminster.(360)
It was important that he should secure the city, if possible, in his favour. In this he was
successful; so that when the barons appeared to threaten London, having arrived with a large
force at Ware, they found the city’s gates strongly guarded.(361)

(M221)

In November (1312), the queen gave birth to a son, who afterwards ascended the throne as Edward
III. Isabel herself informed the citizens of the auspicious event by letter sent by the hands
of John de Falaise, her "taillur."(362) The news had already reached the city, however, before
the queen’s own messenger arrived, and he signified his disappointment at being forestalled
by declining to accept a sum of £10 and a silver cup of 32 ozs., which the city offered him
by way of gratuity, as being inadequate to his deserts. As nothing further is recorded of the
matter, it is probable that the offended tailor had reason to repent of his folly. For more
than a week the city was given up to merry-making, in honour of the birth of an heir to the
crown. The conduits ran with wine; a solemn mass was sung at St. Paul’s, and the mayor and
aldermen rode in state to Westminster, accompanied by members of the fraternities of drapers,
mercers, and vintners of London, in their respective liveries, to make offering, returning
to dine at the Guildhall, which was hung with tapestry as befitted the occasion.

(M222)

After the death of Gaveston, his old enemy Walter Langton again found favour and resumed his
office as treasurer. The city had little reason to be gratified at his return to power; for
it was by his advice that the king in December of this year (1312), issued orders for a talliage,
which the great towns, and especially London, objected to pay. Early in the following January
(1313), the mayor and aldermen were summoned to attend the royal council, sitting at the house
of the White Friars. The question was there put to them—would they make fine for the talliage,
or be assessed by poll on their rents and chattels? Before making answer, the mayor and aldermen
desired to consult the commons of the city. An adjournment accordingly took place for that
purpose. When next the mayor and aldermen appeared before the council, they resisted the talliage
on the following grounds:(363)—In the first place, because, although the king might talliage
cities and boroughs that were of his demesne, he could not, as they understood, talliage the
City of London, which enjoyed exemption from such an imposition by charter. In the next place,
there were prelates and barons, besides citizens, who enjoyed rents and tenements in the city,
and their consent would first have to be obtained before the municipal authorities could levy
such a tax. Thirdly, the citizens held the city by grant of former kings, at a fee ferm for
all services payable into the exchequer, and on that account ought not to be talliaged. Under
these circumstances the council was asked to delay the talliage until Parliament should meet.

This request the king and council expressed themselves as ready to comply with on condition
that the city made an immediate advance of 2,000 marks. The city refused, and the king’s assessors
appeared at the Guildhall, and read their commission. They were on the point of commencing
work, when the city obtained a respite until the meeting of Parliament by a loan of £1,000.
More than eighteen months elapsed, and at last a Parliament was summoned to meet at York (Sept.
1314); but the country was in such a disturbed state, owing to the renewal of the war with
Scotland, that the talliage question was not discussed. Nevertheless the king’s officers appeared
again in the city to make an assessment, and again they were bought off by another loan of
£400. The king took the money and broke his word, and the record of pledges taken from citizens
for "arrears of divers talliages and not redeemed," is significant of the hardship inflicted
by this illegal exaction on a large number of inhabitants of the city.(364)

(M223)

Out of this sum of £400, nearly one-half (£178 3s. 4d.), was allowed the city for the purpose
of furnishing the king with a contingent of 120 arbalesters, fully equipped for the defence
of Berwick. Edward had been defeated by the Scots at Bannockburn (24 June, 1314), and Berwick
was threatened. On the 21st November, Edward wrote from Northampton, asking for 300 arbalesters
if the city could provide so many; but the city could do no more than furnish him with 120.(365)
The fall of Berwick was only postponed. In 1318 the great border fortress against Scotland
was captured by Bruce. Edward was forced soon afterwards to come to terms with the Earl of
Lancaster and the barons with whom he had so long been in avowed antagonism, and a general
pacification ensued, which received the sanction of Parliament sitting at York in November.(366)
On the 4th December, the king sent home the foot soldiers which the city had furnished, with
a letter of thanks for the aid they had afforded him. They were immediately paid off and disbanded.(367)

(M224)

It was not long before the king and Lancaster were preparing to join forces for the recovery
of Berwick. In the meantime, the Barons of the Exchequer appeared at the Guildhall (25th February,
1319), and summoned the mayor, sheriffs and aldermen to answer for certain trespasses. Several
holders of office, and among them Edmund le Lorimer, Gaoler of Newgate, for whom Hugh le Despenser
had solicited the Small Beam, were deposed: a proceeding which gave rise to much bickering
between mayor, aldermen and commons. Disputes, moreover, had arisen in the city touching the
election and removal of the mayor, sheriffs and aldermen of the city, which required some pressure
from the Earl Marshal and other of the king’s ministers, sitting in the Chapter-house of St.
Paul’s, before peace could be restored.(368)

(M225)

According to the writer of the French Chronicle, to which reference has frequently been made,(369)
the dissension in the city was mainly attributable to John de Wengrave, the mayor. The citizens
had lately been busy drawing up certain "points" for a new charter. Wengrave, who was at the
time, or until quite recently, the city’s Recorder, had contrived, in 1318, to force himself
into the mayoralty having served as mayor the two years preceding—"against the will of the
commons." He had shown no little opposition to the "points" of the proposed charter, possibly
because one of the points precluded the mayor, for the time being, from drawing or hearing
pleas, saving only "those pleas which, as mayor, he ought to hear, according to the custom
of the city."(370) If this received the king’s approval, Wengrave’s occupation as Recorder,
at least so long as he was mayor, was gone. However this may be, the mayor’s opposition was
rendered futile, and the articles were confirmed by the king’s letters patent.(371) Their main
feature has already been alluded to; thenceforth the direct way to the civic franchise was
to be through membership of one of the civic guilds. A foreigner or stranger, not a member
of a guild, could only obtain it by appealing to the full body of citizens before admission
through the Court of Husting. Conscious of their newly acquired importance, the guilds began
to array themselves in liveries, and "a good time was about to begin."(372) Edward did not
give his assent to these articles without receiving a quid pro quo. The citizens were mulcted
in a sum of £1,000 before the king’s seal was set to the letters patent.(373) They did not
mind this so much as they did the annoyance caused by the king’s justiciars eighteen months later.

(M226)

Early in 1321 commenced a memorable Iter at the Tower which lasted twenty-four weeks and three
days. No such Iter had been held before, although the last Iter held in 1275 had been a remarkable
one for the courageous conduct of Gregory de Rokesle, the mayor. This was to surpass every
other session of Pleas of the Crown in its powers of inquisition, and was destined to draw
off many a would-be loyal citizen from the king’s side. Its professed object was to examine
into unlawful "colligations, confederations, and conventions by oaths," which were known (or
supposed) to have been formed in the city.(374) The following particulars of its proceedings
are gathered from an account preserved in the city’s records and supervised, if not compiled,
by Andrew Horn, the city’s Chamberlain, an able lawyer who was employed as Counsel for the
city during at least a portion of the Iter.(375) The annoyance caused by this Iter, the general
stoppage of trade and commerce, the hindrance of municipal business, is realised when we consider
that for six months not only the mayor, sheriffs and aldermen for the time being, but everyone
who had filled any office in the city since the holding of the last Iter—a period of nearly
half a century—as well as twelve representatives from each ward, were called upon to be in
constant attendance. All charters were to be produced, and persons who had grievances of any
kind were invited to appear. Great commotion prevailed among the citizens upon receiving the
king’s writ, and they at once addressed themselves to examining the procedure followed at former
Iters. It is probable, as Mr. Riley suggests, that for this purpose they had resort to the
"Ordinances of the Iter" already mentioned as set out in the city’s Liber Albus.(376) When
the dreaded day arrived and the justiciars had taken their seat at the Tower, the mayor and
aldermen, who, according to custom, as already seen in Rokesley’s day, were assembled at the
church of All Hallows Barking, sent a deputation to welcome them, and to make a formal request
for a safe conduct to the citizens on entering the Tower. This favour being granted, the king’s
commission was read.

(M227)

The opening of the Iter did not augur well for the city. Fault was found, at the outset, by
Geoffrey le Scrop, the king’s sergeant-pleader, because the sheriffs had not attended so promptly
as they should have done. The excuse that they had only acted according to custom in waiting
for the grant of a safe conduct was held unsatisfactory, and nothing would please him but that
the city should be at once taken into the king’s hand.(377)

(M228)

Again, when the citizens claimed to record their liberties and customs by word of mouth without
being compelled to reduce them into writing, as the justices had ordered, the only reply they
got was that they did so at their own peril.(378) Three days were consumed in preliminary discussion
of points of etiquette and questions of minor importance.

(M229)

On the fourth day the mayor and citizens put in their claim of liberties, which they supported
by various charters.(379) The justiciars desired answers on three points, which were duly made,(380)
and matters seemed to be getting forward when there arrived orders from the king that the justiciars
should enquire as to the ancient right of the aldermen to record their liberties orally in
the king’s courts. Having heard what the citizens had to say on this point, the justiciars
were instructed to withhold their judgment; and this and other questions touching the liberties
of the city were to be postponed for future determination.(381)

(M230)

On the ninth day of the Iter, a long schedule, containing over 100 articles upon which the
Crown desired information, was delivered to each ward of the city.(382) Days and weeks were
consumed in considering various presentments, besides private suits and pleas of the Crown.
Suits were determined in the Great Hall of the Tower facing the Thames, whilst pleas of the
Crown were heard in the Lesser Hall, beneath the eastern tower. The justiciars occasionally
protracted their sittings till dusk, much to the disgust of the citizens, whose business was
necessarily at a stand-still, and as yet no indictments had been made.(383) These were to come.

(M231)

On the thirty-fourth day of the Iter, John de Gisors was indicted for having during his mayoralty
(1311-1313), admitted a felon to the freedom of the city, and fraudulently altered the date
of his admission. The question of criminality turned upon this date. Had the felony been committed
before or after admission? The accused declared in his defence that admission to the freedom
had taken place before the felony; a jury, however, came to the opposite conclusion, and not
only found that admission had taken place after an indictment for the felony, but that the
mayor at the time was aware of the indictment. The judges therefore ordered Gisors into custody.
He was soon afterwards released on bail, but not without paying a fine of 100 marks.(384)

(M232)

A similar indictment against his son Anketin, as having participated in his father’s offence,
failed. Within a week of Gisors’s indictment, the mayor for the time being, Nicholas de Farndon,
was deposed, and the city placed in the hands of Sir Robert de Kendale, the king’s commissioner.(385)

(M233)

For nine weeks in succession the citizens had suffered from the inconveniences of the Iter,
when a brief adjournment over Easter took place. In the meantime, an assay was held at the
Guildhall of the new weights and measures which Walter Stapleton, Bishop of Exeter, had, in
his capacity as the king’s treasurer, caused to be issued throughout the country. One result
of the trial was that whilst the city’s weight of eight marks was discovered to be slightly
deficient, the city’s bushel was found to be more true than the king’s.

(M234)

After Easter the sittings of the justiciars were resumed. A great change, however, had come
over them during the recess. They no longer behaved "like lions eager for their prey; on the
contrary, they had become very lambs."(386) The reason for this sudden change, we are told,
was the insurrection in Wales, under the Earl of Hereford, the king’s brother-in-law.

(M235)

The chief questions discussed before the justices were the right of the weavers of London to
hold their guild, and the right of the fishmongers of Fish-wharf to sell their fish at their
wharf by retail instead of on their vessels or at the city markets. The claim of the fishmongers
was opposed by Andrew Horn, himself a fishmonger by trade, as well as an eminent lawyer, who
acted on this occasion as leading counsel for the City.

(M236)

When Whitsuntide was approaching, an indictment was brought by the city wards against their
old enemy John de Crombwelle, the Constable of the Tower. He had already made himself obnoxious
to the citizens by attempting to enclose a portion of the city’s lands;(387) and now he was
accused of seizing a small vessel laden with tiles, and converting the same to his own use,
and further, with taking bribes for allowing unauthorised "kidels" to remain in the Thames.
The judges, having heard what he had to say in defence, postponed the further hearing until
after Trinity Sunday (14th June). In the meantime, the citizens had the gratification of seeing
the constable removed from office, for allowing the Tower to fall into such a dilapidated state,
that the rain came in upon the queen’s bed, while giving birth to a daughter, afterwards known
as Joanna of the Tower,(388) and destined to become the wife of David the Second, King of Scotland.

(M237)

On the judges resuming their sittings after Trinity Sunday, they sat no longer in the Great
Hall or the Lesser Hall, "as well by reason of the queen being in childbed there, as already
mentioned, as of the fortifying of the Tower, through fear of the Earl of Hereford and his
accomplices, who were in insurrection on every side." Temporary buildings had to be found for
them. A fortnight later there were signs of the Iter being brought to an abrupt termination,
the citizens having represented that they could not possibly keep proper watch and ward owing
to disturbances consequent to the holding of the Iter;(389) and within a week, viz., on 4th
July, it was actually closed.

(M238)

It was the bursting of the storm which had long been gathering against the king’s new favourites,
the Despensers, father and son, that caused the sudden termination of the Iter, and it was
the fear lest he should lose the support of the city against Lancaster and his allies that
caused the king quickly to restore to the citizens their Mayor. Hamo de Chigwell took the place
of the deposed Farndon.(390)

(M239)

Within a few hours of the closing of the Iter Chigwell and the aldermen were summoned to Westminster
to say whether they would be willing to support the king and to preserve the city of London
to his use in his contest with the barons. Edward and his council received for answer that
the mayor and his brethren "were unwilling to refuse the safe keeping of the city," but would
keep it for the king and his heirs. They were thereupon enjoined to prepare a scheme for its
defence for submission to the king’s council, and this was accordingly done.(391)

(M240)

The city was, however, wavering in its support; Chigwell did his best to hold the balance between
king and baron, and to hold a middle course, avoiding offence as far as was possible to one
side and the other. After the lapse of a few days, a letter came from the Earl of Hereford,
addressed to the mayor, sheriffs, aldermen and commonalty of the city, asking for an interview.
It was then decided, after due deliberation in the Court of Husting, to ask Edward’s advice
on the matter before returning an answer. At first the king was disinclined to allow the interview,
but when the lords approached nearer London, and resistance would have been hopeless, he gave
way, and a deputation was appointed to meet the lords at the Earl of Lancaster’s house in Holborn.
To them the earl explained the aim and object of himself and his confederates. They were desirous
of nothing so much as the good of the realm and the overthrow of the Despensers, father and
son, who led the king astray and had caused the Iter to be held at the Tower in order to injure
the city. Having listened to the earl’s statement, the recorder, on behalf of the deputation,
asked for a few days’ delay in order to consult with the mayor and commonalty. The matter was
laid before an assembly which comprised representatives from each ward (30th July), and again
it was resolved to ask the king’s advice. At length a reply was sent to the lords to the effect
that the citizens would neither aid the Despensers nor oppose the lords, but the city would
in the meantime be strongly guarded for the preservation of order. With this the lords were
satisfied.(392)

(M241)

A fortnight later (14th August) the king, moved by the intercession of the Earl of Pembroke,
the bishops, and his queen, yielded to the lords, and an agreement between them was reduced
to writing and publicly read in Westminster Hall.(393)

(M242)

Chigwell’s conduct throughout met with so much favour from the citizens as well as from the
king that when the latter issued letters patent(394) granting a free election of a mayor in
October of this year, it was decided to continue Chigwell in office without a fresh election.(395)

(M243)

Such popularity as the king had for a time achieved by his concession to the demands of the
lords, however unwillingly made, was enhanced by another circumstance. An insult had been offered
to the queen by Lady Badlesmere, who had refused to admit her into her castle at Ledes, co.
Kent, when on her way to Canterbury. The queen was naturally indignant, and the unexpected
energy displayed by Edward in avenging the insult gave fresh strength to his cause. With the
assistance of a contingent sent by the citizens of London, the king beseiged the castle, and,
having taken it, hanged the governor.(396) Sir Bartholomew de Badlesmere, the owner of the
castle, was afterwards taken and put to death at Canterbury.

(M244)

Elated with his success, the king forthwith proceeded to issue "a charter of service"—i.e.,
a charter binding the citizens to serve him in future wars—which he wished the good people
of London to have sealed, "but the people of the city would not accede to it for all that the
king could do."(397) In the place of this charter, however, he was induced to grant the citizens
one of a diametrically opposite nature, whereby it was provided that the aids granted by the
citizens upon this occasion should not be prejudicial to the mayor and citizens, nor be looked
upon as establishing a precedent.(398)

(M245)

Having thus secured an acknowledgment of their rights, the citizens were ready enough to waive
them when occasion required. The battle of Boroughbridge (16 March, 1322) was won for the king
by the aid of Londoners. We know, at least, that when he started from London at the close of
1321 he was accompanied by five hundred men at arms from the city, and one hundred and twenty
more were sent after him on the 3rd March.(399)

(M246)

The Londoners were by no means to be despised in the field.

(M247)

The Earl of Lancaster, who was made prisoner at Boroughbridge, and afterwards executed before
his own castle at Pomfret, had come to be a great favourite with the Londoners, in whose eyes
he appeared as the champion of the oppressed against the strong. His memory was long cherished
in the city, and miracles were believed to have taken place—the crooked made straight, the
blind receiving sight and the deaf hearing—before the tablet he had set up in St. Paul’s commemorative
of the king’s submission to the Ordinances. Edward ordered the removal of the tablet, but it
was again set up as soon as all power had passed from his hands.(402)

(M248)

Edward, again a free ruler, lost no time in revoking these Ordinances. The elder Despenser
he raised to the earldom of Winchester.(403) This was in May, 1322; a year later (April, 1323),
he deposed Chigwell, who had again been re-elected to the mayoralty in the previous October,
and put in his place Nicholas de Farndon,(404) thus reversing the order of things in 1321,
when Farndon had been deposed and his place taken by Chigwell.

The deposed mayor, however, was ordered to keep close attendance on the Court, as were also
three other London citizens, viz.: Hamo Godchep, Edmund Lambyn, and Roger le Palmere; and in
the following November he recovered his position,(405) and held it for the rest of Edward’s reign.

(M249)

The king’s triumph was destined to be short-lived. In August, 1323, Roger Mortimer, a favourite
of the queen, effected his escape from the Tower, where he had lain prisoner since January,
1322. The divided feeling of the citizens which had been more or less apparent since the year
of the great Iter, now began to assert itself. Mortimer’s escape had taken place with the connivance,
if not active assistance, of a leading citizen, Richard de Betoyne, and he took sanctuary on
the property of another leading citizen, John Gisors.(406) In November the citizens thought
fit to close their gates, to prevent surprise.(407)

(M250)

In the following year (1324), a quarrel broke out between two of the city guilds, the weavers
and the goldsmiths. Fights took place in the streets and lives were lost.(408) How far, if
at all, such a quarrel had any political significance it is difficult to say, but it is not
unlikely, at a time when the guilds were winning their way to chartered rights, that occasionally
their members took sides in the political struggle that was then being carried on.

(M251)

Edward, in the meanwhile, was threatened with war by France, unless he consented to cross the
sea and do homage to the French king for the possessions he held in that country. This the
Despensers dared not allow him to do. A compromise was therefore effected. Queen Isabel, who
was not sorry for an opportunity of quitting the side of a husband who had seized all her property,
removed her household, and put her on board wages at twenty shillings a day,(409) undertook,
with the king’s assent, to revisit her home and to bring about a settlement. Accordingly, on
the 9th March,(410) 1324, she crossed over to France, where she was afterwards joined by Mortimer
and her son.

(M252)

Once on the continent, the queen threw off the mask, and immediately began to concert measures
against the king and the Despensers. By negotiating a marriage for her son with the daughter
of the Count of Hainault, she contrived to raise supporters in England, whilst by her affected
humility and sorrow, displayed by wearing simple apparel as one that mourned for her husband,
she won the sympathy of all who beheld her.(411) The king, on the other hand, publicly forbade
any one holding correspondence with her, caused provisions to be laid up in the Tower in case
of emergency, and prepared a fleet to prevent her landing.

(M253)

It was all in vain. The majority of the citizens had made up their mind to give him no more
support. On the 24th September, 1326, Isabel, in spite of all precautions, effected a landing
near Harwich; and Edward, as soon as he was made aware of her arrival in England, took fright
and left London for the west. The queen, who was accompanied by her son and her "gentle Mortimer,"
gave out that she came as an avenger of Earl Thomas, whose memory was yet green in the minds
of the citizens, and as the enemy of the Despensers.(412) Adherents quickly came in from all
sides, and with these she leisurely (quasi peregrinando) followed up the king.(413)

In the meantime a letter had been despatched to the city in her name and that of her son, desiring
its assistance in destroying "the enemies of the land." To this letter, we are told, no answer
was sent "through fear of the king." Another letter was therefore sent to the same effect,
in which Hugh Despenser was especially named as one to be destroyed, and an immediate answer
was requested.(414) This letter was affixed to the cross in Cheapside and copies circulated
through the city.

On the 15th October, the city broke out into open rebellion. The mayor and other leading men
had gone to the house of the Blackfriars to meet the Bishops of London and Exeter. The mob,
now fairly roused by the queen’s second letter, hurried thither and forced them to return to
the Guildhall, the timid Chigwell "crying mercy with clasped hands," and promising to grant
all they required. A proclamation was made shortly afterwards to the effect that "the enemies
to the king and the queen and their son" should depart the city.(415)

(M254)

One unfortunate man, John le Marchall, suspected of being employed by Hugh Despenser as a spy,
was seized and incontinently beheaded in Cheapside. The mob, having tasted blood, hastened
to sack the house of Walter Stapleton, Bishop of Exeter, who as Edward’s treasurer, had confiscated
the queen’s property. It so happened, that the bishop himself, attended by two esquires, was
riding towards the city intending to have his midday meal at his house in Old Dean’s Lane (now
Warwick Lane), before proceeding to the Tower. Hearing cries of "Traitor!" he guessed that
something was wrong, and made for sanctuary in St. Paul’s. He was caught, however, just as
he was about to enter the north door, dragged from his horse, carried to Chepe, and there put
to death in the same way as John le Marchall had been executed a short hour before.(416)

The bishop’s two attendant esquires also perished at the hands of the mob. Their bodies were
allowed to lie stark naked all that day in the middle of Chepe. The head of the bishop was
sent to the queen at Gloucester,(417) but his corpse was reverently carried into St. Paul’s
after vespers by the canons and vicars of the cathedral. It was not allowed, however, to remain
there long; for hearing that the bishop had died under sentence of excommunication, the authorities
caused it to be removed to the church of St. Clement Danes, near which stood the bishop’s new
manor house of which we are reminded at the present day by Exeter Hall. The parish church was
in the gift of the Bishop of Exeter for the time being, and John Mugg, then rector, owed his
preferment to Stapleton. He was, therefore, guilty of gross ingratitude when he refused to
take in the corpse of his patron, or to allow it the rites of burial. Certain poor women had
more compassion; they at least cast a piece of old cloth over the corpse for decency’s sake
and buried it out of sight, although without any attempt to make a grave and "without any office
of priest or clerk." Thus, it remained till the following month of February, when it was disinterred
and taken to Exeter. The treatment of Bishop Stapleton caused other prelates to look to themselves,
and many of them, including the primate himself, began to make overtures of submission to Queen
Isabel.

After the Bishop’s murder there was no pretence of government in the city. The mob did exactly
as they liked. They sacked the houses of Baldock, the Chancellor, and carried off the treasure
he had laid up in St. Paul’s. The property of the Earl of Arundel, recently executed at Hereford,
which lay in the Priory of Holy Trinity, Aldgate, shared the same fate. The banking house of
the Bardi, containing the wealth accumulated by the younger Despenser, was sacked under cover
of night. The Tower was entered, the prisoners set free, and new officers appointed.(418) All
this was done in the face of a proclamation, calling upon the citizens to sink their differences
and to settle their disputes by lawful means.(419)

(M255) (M256)

When the Feast of St. Simon and Jude again came round, and Chigwell’s term of office expired
by efflux of time, no election of a successor took place, but on the 15th November, the Bishop
of Winchester paid a visit to the Guildhall, where, after receiving the freedom of the city,
and swearing "to live and die with them in the cause, and to maintain the franchise," he presented
a letter from the queen, permitting the citizens freely to elect their mayor as in the days
before the Iter of 1321, for since that time no mayor had been elected, save only by the king’s
favour.(420) They at once elected Richard de Betoyne, whom the queen had that day appointed
Warden of the Tower, conjointly with John de Gisors.(421) Thus were these two aldermen recompensed
for the assistance they had rendered Mortimer in his escape from the Tower.

(M257)

On the 13th January, 1327—exactly one week before the king met his wretched end in Berkeley
Castle—Mortimer came to the Guildhall with a large company including the Archbishop of Canterbury
and several bishops, and one and all made oath to maintain the cause of the queen and of her
son, and to preserve the liberties of the City of London. This was solemnly done in the presence
of the mayor, the chamberlain, Andrew Horn, and a vast concourse of citizens. The Archbishop,
who had offended many of the citizens by annulling the decree of exile passed against the Despensers
in 1321, now sought their favour by the public offer of a gift to the commonalty of 50 tuns
of wine.(422)

CHAPTER VII.

(M258)

Edward III was only fourteen years of age when he succeeded to the throne. For the first three
years of his reign the government of the country was practically in the hands of Mortimer,
his mother’s paramour; and it was no doubt by his advice and that of the queen-mother that
the young king rewarded the citizens of London, who had shown him so much favour, by granting
them not only a general pardon(423) for offences committed since he set foot in England in
September, 1326, but also a charter confirming and enlarging their ancient liberties.(424)

This latter charter, which has been held to be of the force of an Act of Parliament,(425) established
(among other things) the ferm of the Sheriffwick of London and Middlesex at the original sum
of £300 per annum, instead of the increased rental of £400 which had been paid since 1270;(426)
it appointed the mayor one of the justices at the gaol delivery of Newgate, as well as the
king’s escheator of felon’s goods within the city; it gave the citizens the right of devising
real estate within the city; it restored to them all the privileges they had enjoyed before
the memorable Iter of the last reign; and granted to them a monopoly of markets within a circuit
of seven miles of the city.(427) These two charters—the charter of pardon and the charter of
liberties—together with another charter(428) releasing the citizens from all debts due to the
late king, were publicly read and explained in English to the citizens assembled at the Guildhall
by Andrew Horn, the Chamberlain, on the 9th March.(429)

(M259)

Scarcely was he knighted and crowned king before necessity compelled him to take the field
against the Scots. The Londoners were, as usual, called upon to supply a contingent towards
the forces which had been ordered to assemble at Newcastle-upon-Tyne.(430) They responded to
the king’s appeal by sending 100 horsemen fully equipped, each one supplied with the sum of
100 shillings at least for expenses, and a further contingent of 100 foot-men. They made their
rendezvous at West Smithfield, whence they proceeded to "la Barnette."(431)

(M260)

Whilst furnishing this aid to the king the citizens were anxious that their liberality should
not be misconstrued, or tend to establish a precedent in derogation of their chartered privileges.
Their fears on this score were set at rest by the receipt of letters patent from the king declaring
that their proceedings on this occasion should not be to their prejudice.(432)

(M261)

A parliament held in September, at Lincoln, in which the citizens were represented by Benedict
de Fulsham and Robert de Kelseye,(433) granted the king an aid of a twentieth to defray expenses;
and Hamo de Chigwell, among others, was appointed by the king to collect the tax from the citizens.(434)

(M262)

The City’s representatives were accompanied to Lincoln by the mayor, Richard de Betoyne, who
was the bearer of letters under the seal of the commonalty addressed to the king, the queen,
and members of the king’s council praying that the courts of King’s Bench and Exchequer might
not be removed from Westminster to York.(435) The removal was inconvenient to the city merchants,
whatever advantage might accrue to those dwelling in the north of England. Negotiations between
the City and the king on this subject were protracted for some weeks; the king at length promising
that the courts should return to Westminster as soon as the country was in a more settled state.(436)

(M263)

The campaign against the Scots brought little credit to either side, and terminated in a treaty,
the terms of which were for the most part arranged by Mortimer and the queen-mother. One of
the articles of peace stipulated for the surrender of all proofs of the subjection of Scotland;
and accordingly the abbot of Westminster received orders to deliver up the stone of Scone to
the Sheriffs of London for transmission to Isabel, who was in the north.(437) This the abbot
refused to do—"for reasons touching God and the church,"—without further instructions from
the king and his council.(438)

When negotiations were opened in 1363 for the union of the kingdoms of England and Scotland,
it was proposed that Edward should be crowned king at Scone on the royal seat (siége roial)
which he should cause to be returned from England. These negotiations, however, fell through,
and the stone remains in Westminster Abbey to this day.(439)

The treaty which had been arranged at Edinburgh (17 March, 1328), was afterwards confirmed
by a Parliament held at Northampton, in which the city was represented by Richard de Betoyne
and Robert de Kelseye.(440)

(M264)

When the terms of this treaty of Northampton (as it was called) came to be fully understood,
the nation began to realise the measure of disgrace which they involved, and Mortimer and the
queen became the objects of bitter hatred. Henry, Earl of Lancaster, the king’s nominal guardian,
had grown weary of his false position, and of serving only as Mortimer’s tool. Determined to
throw off the yoke, he refused to attend a parliament which met at Salisbury in October (1328),(441)
unless certain changes in the government and in the king’s household were first made. In the
meantime, Bishop Stratford of Winchester and Thomas, Lord Wake, two of his supporters, had
paid a visit to the city and had endeavoured to rouse the citizens to action. The king, hearing
of this, wrote to the municipal authorities for an explanation. They frankly acknowledged,
in reply, that the bishop had been in the city for the purpose of discussing the ill state
of affairs, and themselves expressed a hope, amid vows of the utmost loyalty, that the king
would redress the grievances under which the nation suffered.(442)

(M265)

Instead of attending the parliament at Salisbury, the earl marched in full force to Winchester.
On the 5th November he wrote to the citizens from Hungerford, to the effect that he had made
known to parliament his honourable intentions, but had received no reply; that the parliament
had been adjourned to London; that he had been informed of certain matters about which he could
not write, but which the bearer would communicate to them; and he concluded with assuring them
that he desired nothing so much as the king’s honour and the welfare of the kingdom, and declaring
his implicit confidence in their loyalty.(443)

(M266)

The mayor of the city at this time was John de Grantham. His election had taken place but recently,
and was the result of a compromise. Chigwell, who had again been chosen mayor at the expiration
of Betoyne’s year of office in 1327, was a decided favourite with the citizens, notwithstanding
a certain want of firmness of character, and he was again put up as a candidate for the mayoralty
in October, 1328. He had enemies, of course. Towards the close of his last mayoralty he was
ill-advised enough to sit in judgment upon a brother alderman on a charge of having abused
him two years previously. During the troublous times of 1326, John de Cotun, alderman of Walbrook
ward, was alleged to have described Chigwell, who was then mayor, as "the vilest worm that
had been in the city for twenty years," adding that the city would know no peace so long as
Chigwell was alive, and that it would be a blessing if he lost his head.(444) After some hard
swearing on both sides, leading to the discovery of bad blood existing between the informer
and the alderman, the charge was dismissed.

At the outset it appeared that Chigwell’s reelection was assured; but the city as well as the
country was in a disturbed state, and political reasons may have led to an endeavour to force
another candidate in the person of Benedict de Fulsham over his head. Be that as it may, it
is certain that when Chigwell’s name was proposed to the assembled citizens at the Guildhall,
the cry was raised of "Fulsham! Fulsham!" So high did party spirit run, that the election had
to be postponed, and eventually it was thought best that both candidates should be withdrawn.
This having been done, the choice of the electors fell on John de Grantham, a pepperer.(445)

(M267)

On the 8th November the new mayor despatched a letter to the king, expressing the joy of the
city at the news of a proposed visit, and the prospect of the next parliament being held in
London. His majesty might be assured of the city’s loyalty.(446) Four days later (12 November),
Edward despatched a messenger from Reading with a letter to John de Grantham, bidding him cause
a deputation to be nominated for the purpose of proceeding to Windsor. The messenger arrived
late on Sunday evening, and the deputation was to be at Windsor on the following Tuesday. A
meeting was therefore summoned on Monday, when six aldermen and six commoners were nominated
to meet the king. On Thursday the deputation returned and reported the result of the interview.
It appears that Edward had complained to the deputation of armed men having left the city to
join the earl at Winchester. He was also desirous to know if the city was in a proper state
of defence and the king’s peace preserved therein. On these points the mayor endeavoured to
satisfy him by letter of the 18th November. As to armed men having left the city for Winchester,
his majesty was informed that none had so left with the knowledge of the municipal authorities,
and if any should be found to have done so, they would most assuredly be punished.(447)

(M268)

Early in December the king and queen came to London, accompanied by the queen-mother and Mortimer,
and took up their quarters at Westminster. The whole of the city went forth to welcome them,
and they were made the recipients of valuable gifts. Their stay, however, lasted but one short
week.(448)

(M269)

By the 16th the king was at Gloucester, where he wrote to the Mayor of London, enclosing a
copy of particulars of all that had passed between himself and the Earl of Lancaster—the charges
made by the earl and his own replies—in order, as he said, that the citizens might judge for
themselves of the rights of the quarrel between them. These particulars, the mayor was desired
to have publicly read at the Guildhall.(449) This was accordingly done (20 Dec.), in the presence
of some of the earl’s supporters, who took the opportunity of explaining the earl’s position.(450)

(M270)

Whilst notifying the king that his wishes had been complied with, the mayor and commonalty
besought him that all measures of hostility between himself and the barons might be suspended
until parliament should meet. The city became the headquarters of the dissatisfied bishops
and nobles. The Sunday before Christmas, the pulpit in St. Paul’s was occupied by the primate,
who was equally anxious with the civic authorities that matters should be left to be adjusted
by parliament.(451)

(M271)

The barons in the city, in the meanwhile, awaited the arrival of the Earl of Lancaster. On
New Year’s day he came, and on the 2nd January (1329) a conference of bishops and barons took
place at St. Paul’s.(452) The futility of an attempt to form a confederation soon became apparent.
The city stood fast to the king; some of the barons wavered, and nothing was left to Lancaster
but to make the best terms he could. Edward had already offered pardon to all who should submit
before the 7th January, with certain exceptions.(453)

(M272)

Now that the king, or rather, we should say, Mortimer, was once more master of the situation,
the citizens who had favoured the constitutional party became the objects of retribution. On
Sunday, the 22nd January (1329), the mayor and twenty-four citizens were ordered to meet the
king at St. Albans. They returned on the following Thursday with instructions to see if the
city was prepared to punish those who had favoured Lancaster. No sooner were the king’s wishes
made known, than an enquiry was at once set on foot. On Wednesday (1st February), the deputation
returned to the king, who was then at Windsor, to report the sense of the city; and on the
following Sunday (4th February), the king’s justices commenced to sit at the Guildhall for
the trial of those implicated in the late abortive attempt to overthrow Mortimer. Three days
were consumed in preliminary proceedings; and it was not until Wednesday (8th February) that
the real business of the session commenced.  By that time the king himself had come to London,
and had taken up his headquarters at the Tower, having passed through the city accompanied
by his consort, the queen-mother, and many of the nobility.(454) It does not appear that Mortimer
came with them.

(M273)

Among those who were brought to trial at the Guildhall was Chigwell. He was accused of being
implicated in the abduction of the Abbot of Bury St. Edmunds, and of feloniously receiving
two silver basins as his share of the plunder. Being convicted, he claimed the benefit of clergy,
and the Bishop of London, after some delay, was allowed to take possession of him on the ground
that he was a clerk. His life was thus saved and he was conveyed to the episcopal prison amid
general regret, although, as we have already seen, he was not a universal favourite. "Many
said, he is a good man; others, nay, but he deceiveth the people."(455) He was kept for some
months in honourable confinement at the bishop’s manor of Orset, co. Essex, and early in 1330
was admitted to purgation. Thus encouraged, he hastened once more to return to the city. He
was still popular with a large body of the citizens, who, on hearing of his approach, flocked
to meet him, his re-entry into the city being made to resemble a triumphal progress. Both Isabel
and her son were seized with alarm; and a writ was forthwith issued for his arrest.(456) He
was, however, forewarned, and able to make his escape. Little is known of his subsequent career;
Stow places his death in or about 1328, but this must be a mistake. By his will dated 1332,
he left some real estate in the city to the dean and chapter of St. Paul’s Cathedral for the
maintenance of a chantry.(457)

(M274)

Mortimer’s vengeance was not confined to a few leading citizens. Lancaster’s life was spared,
but he was mulcted in a heavy fine. Many of his associates took refuge in flight. The Earl
of Kent, the king’s uncle, was shortly afterwards charged with treason, into which he had been
drawn by the subtlety of Mortimer, and made to pay the penalty with his head. This, more than
anything else, opened the king’s eyes to Mortimer’s true character, and at length (Oct., 1339,)
he caused him to be privily seized in the castle of Nottingham.(458) Thence he was carried
to London, and hanged at the Elms in Smithfield.

(M275)

Queen Isabel, who witnessed the seizure of her favourite and whose prayers to spare the "gentle
Mortimer" were of no avail, was made to disgorge much of the wealth she had acquired during
her supremacy, and was put on an allowance. The rest of her life, a period of nearly thirty
years, she spent in retirement. Before her death(459) she gave the sum of forty shillings to
the Abbess and Minoresses of Aldgate of the Order of St. Clare, for the purpose of purchasing
for themselves two pittances or doles on the anniversaries of the decease of her husband the
late king and of Sir John de Eltham his son.(460) The removal of Mortimer corresponded very
closely with the king’s coming of age. He was now eighteen years old, and thenceforth he "ruled
as well as reigned."

(M276)

The king’s marriage with Philippa of Hainault, which had taken place at York on the 30th January,
1328, had been popular with the city(461) as tending to open up trade with Flanders. Hitherto
nearly all the wool produced by this country had been sent to Flanders for manufacture, the
export trade being so large that the king is said to have received more than £30,000 in a single
year from duties levied on this commodity alone.(462) We have already seen how, in order to
punish the Countess of Flanders for injuries inflicted upon English merchants, the king’s grandfather
resorted, in 1270, to the expedient of forbidding all export of wool to her country.(463) The
misery which her half-starved people were then compelled to suffer soon induced the Countess
to come to terms. It was also in no small measure owing to the fear of a similar stoppage by
the intervention of the French fleet, that the Flemings laid aside their neutrality in 1339,
and openly assisted Edward in his war with France.

(M277)

Towards the close of the last reign the "staples" or market towns for the sale of certain commodities,
but more especially of wool, had been removed from the continent and established at various
places in England, Ireland and Wales.(464) London was one of those places. No wool was to be
exported abroad until it had remained at one or another of the staples for a period of forty
days. This rule appears however to have been relaxed by Edward II, in favour of all staple
towns but London; merchants being allowed to remove their goods from other staples after a
stay of only fifteen days. The London merchants, therefore, were under the disadvantage of
finding the market always forestalled. Edward III had not long been on the throne before they
took the opportunity of submitting this hardship not only to the king, but also to the queen-mother,
and prayed that the relaxation of the rule touching the forty days with respect to other staples
might be withdrawn.(465) Their prayer, however, would seem to have had but little effect, for
within a week of the petition to the king we find that monarch issuing an order to the collector
of customs on wool, leather and wool-fells in the port of London, to enforce the delay of forty
days before goods could be removed.(466)

(M278)

Nor was this the only grievance that the London merchants had. In order to raise money to put
down the rebellion of the Scots which had broken out soon after his accession, he had recourse
to an extra tax upon wool, leather, and wool-fells. The money thus raised was to be considered
a loan, receipts being given to the merchants under the king’s seal, known as "Coket," and
the merchants in return were to be allowed absolute free trade from the 2nd July, 1327, the
date of the writ, up to the following Christmas.(467) The Londoners objected altogether to
this impost, on the grounds that they had never been consulted on the matter, and had never
given their assent.(468)

A compromise was subsequently effected. In consideration of the good service which the citizens
of London had already done to the king in times past, and for the good service which they were
prepared to render again in the future, they were released of arrears of the tax due from 2nd
July to the 23rd September, provided they were willing to pay it for the remainder of the term.(469)
After Christmas the restrictions upon free trade were again enforced.(470)

(M279)

On the 11th December (1327), Edward issued a writ(471) to the Sheriffs of London to choose
two representatives to attend on behalf of the citizens at a parliament to be held at York,
on Sunday next after the Feast of the Purification (2 Feb., 1328). Instead, however, of sending
only two members as directed, the citizens appear on this occasion to have sent no less than
four, viz.: Richard de Betoyne, Robert de Kelseye, John de Grantham, and John Priour the Younger.(472)

One of the questions to be determined was the advisability of again removing the Staple from
England to the continent. On this question, there appears to have arisen some difference of
opinion among the city representatives. Betoyne, who had formerly enjoyed the office of Mayor
of the Staple beyond the seas, favoured a return to the old order of things, whilst his colleagues
were opposed to any such proceeding. Notification of Betoyne’s disagreement with his colleagues
was made to the mayor and commonalty of the City by letter from the mayor and commonalty of
York, to which reply was made that Betoyne’s action was entirely unauthorised.(473) A letter
was sent the same day to Betoyne himself, enjoining him to do nothing in the matter opposed
to the wish of the commonalty of London(474); and another to Betoyne’s colleagues informing
them of the City’s action, and bidding them to exert themselves to the utmost to keep the Staple
in England.(475)

The account of Betoyne’s difference with his colleagues, as related in the letter from the
City of York, was subsequently found to require considerable modification, when a letter was
received by the Mayor of London from two of his colleagues, Grantham and Priour.(476) Their
account of what had actually taken place was to the effect that Betoyne had been publicly requested
by a number of representatives from various towns, assembled in the Chapter House at York,
to resign his mayoralty (of the Staple) and to deliver up the charters which had been acquired
at no little expense. Betoyne replied that the charters were in the possession of John de Charleton,(477)
who refused to give them up, but that he had himself, four years since, caused a transcript
of the charters to be made, which he was prepared to give up to them if they so wished. Thereupon,
there suddenly appeared upon the scene the Mayor of York, hand in hand with John de Charleton
himself, and followed by a number of burgesses of York. The appearance of John de Charleton
was eminently distasteful to Betoyne, and he got up and left the room, declining to take any
further part in the discussion so long as Charleton was present. That was practically all that
had occurred, and the writers expressed themselves as much hurt if anything more than this
had been reported from the mayor and commonalty of York, for in their opinion Betoyne had never
shown himself otherwise than diligent in his duty. The letter concluded with a report of general
news, the chief item being the announcement of the death of the King of France, and the writers
expressed a wish that the same publicity might be given to their letter as was given to the
letter received from the Mayor of York.

(M280)

Betoyne on the same day sent home his own account of what had taken place at York.(478) It
agrees in the main with the account sent by his colleagues, but contains some particulars of
interest not mentioned in the latter. He relates how he had been asked to retire from the Mayoralty
of the Staple beyond the seas, and to give up the charters and other muniments which the several
towns had obtained at considerable cost. To this he had replied that many charters he had left
behind on the continent, but he had brought over with him the charters of the franchises of
the staples which had been purchased of the late king. These were in the hands of John de Charleton,
who refused to give them up. He had himself, however, gone to Dover in the eighteenth year
of Edward II, when the king himself was there, and had caused a duplicate of the charters to
be made, which he had expressed his readiness to show them. He encloses a copy. As a proof
of the bad feeling (la malencolye) which the burgesses of York entertained towards him, he
proceeds to relate how the Mayor of York, maliciously and without any warning, had appeared
at the assembly with four or five of his suite, accompanied by John de Charleton, clothed in
the mayor’s livery, and by a crowd of citizens, to the terror of the assembled merchants. Thereupon,
Bretoyne had declared that he would not sit nor remain where Charleton was, and had left the
meeting; for, said he, he would never make peace with Charleton except with the assent of the
Mayor and Commonalty of London. He concluded by asking that his character might not be allowed
to suffer by anything which the Mayor of York may have written. By a postscript he informs
the Mayor of London, that on the eve of the Purification (the day fixed for the re-assembly
of parliament) the Mayor of York had come to his hostel, accompanied by many others, and had
accused him of having come to the city for the express purpose of annoying their fellow-burgess
John de Charleton, which he had denied. This insult, he is advised, touches not only himself,
but the Corporation of London whose representative he was.

(M281)

Both these letters were laid before the commonalty of London assembled at the Guildhall on
the 19th February, when Betoyne’s action was approved, and on the following day a letter was
addressed to him to that effect. The Mayor and Commonalty of York received also a missive in
which their late conduct to Betoyne was severely criticised.(479) Betoyne’s recent services
were recognized by the grant, at his own request, of a handsome coverlet furred with minever,
in part payment of his expenses incurred in attending the parliament at York.(480)

(M282)

The king, finding that the opposition to the removal of the staple displayed not only by London
but by York, Winchester, Bristol and Lincoln was too great to be overcome, abolished staples
altogether (August, 1328), and re-established free-trade.(481) He even invited Flemish weavers
to settle in England so as to give a stimulus to the manufacture of woollen fabrics. These
he took under his special protection,(482) for the native looked askance upon all foreigners,
traders or craftsmen.

(M283)

One of the last political acts of Mortimer had been to send Edward over to France to do homage
to Philip of Valois, the new king, for his possessions in that country. This homage Edward
paid in 1329, but subject to certain reservations.(483) In 1330 he was making preparations
for war, and took the opportunity of the presence of Stephen de Abyndone and John de Caustone,
the City’s representatives in the parliament held that year at Westminster, to ask them what
assistance the City would be likely to afford him. The City members asked leave to consult
the commonalty on the matter. Eventually the sum of 1,000 marks was offered, a sum so trifling
that Edward consented to accept it only as a free gift, and plainly intimated that he looked
for more substantial aid in the future.(484)

In July, he summoned the mayor and twenty-four of the leading citizens to attend him at Woodstock.
The mayor (Simon de Swanlonde) would have had them excused on the ground of the disturbed state
of the city, but the king was not to be denied. Substitutes were appointed for the mayor during
his absence, and he and seven aldermen and sixteen commoners went to Woodstock, where they
gave assurances of the City’s loyalty.(485) In 1331, after Mortimer’s fall, when Edward was
his own master, lie again visited France, and a peace was concluded between the two kings.(486)

(M284)

From 1332 to 1335 the king was chiefly occupied with Scotland. It was part of the policy of
Philip of Valois to encourage disturbance in the north of England, as a means of recovering
his lost possessions in France.(487) The period of four years during which peace had been assured
by Edward with Scotland by the treaty of Northampton had now elapsed,(488) and active operations
on both sides re-commenced. In 1334 the city voted 1,000 marks, afterwards raised to 1,200,
for raising 100 horsemen and as many men-at-arms to assist the king for a period of forty days.(489)

A spy was also despatched to Normandy and Brabant to see how matters were going there, and
gifts were made to the courts of Juliers and Namur to secure their favour. The parliament which
sat at York in May, 1335,(490) having decided in favour of a fresh expedition to Scotland,(491)
the king sent orders to the City to hold its forces in readiness to march under the leadership
of two of its aldermen, John de Pulteney and Reginald de Conduit.(492) A commission to seize
ships in the port of London to the king’s use, resulted in the detention of six ships.(493)

(M285)

At length, the friendly attitude which Philip of Valois had taken up towards Scotland, much
to Edward’s prejudice, determined the latter to go in person to France for the purpose, not
only of defending his possessions there, but also of enforcing his claim to the French crown.
The year 1337 was devoted to active preparations for the struggle. The City of London, in spite
of its franchise, was called upon to furnish 500 men at arms, and to send them to Portsmouth
by Whitsuntide.(494) The date was subsequently altered to Trinity Sunday.(495) The king took
occasion to find fault with the city’s dilatoriness in executing his demands, as well as with
the physique of the men that were being supplied. At the request of the mayor, Sir John de
Pulteney (he had recently received the honour of knighthood(496)), the number of men to be
furnished was reduced to 200, the rest to be supplied on further notice.(497)

(M286)

When Parliament met in London in February, the City made presents of money to the king, the
queen, the chancellor, the treasurer, and others,(498) for no other purpose apparently, but
to win their favour. In the following month the City obtained a charter declaring its liberties
and customs to be unaffected by the recent statute establishing free trade,(499) when presents
in money or kind were again made to the officers of state.(500)

(M287)

The services which the mayor had done the city in the work of obtaining this charter were acknowledged
by a gift of two silver basins and the sum of £20 from his fellow citizens.(501) It was by
Pulteney’s influence that the king consented to allow a sum of 1,000 marks to be taken into
account at a future assessment for a fifteenth, instead of insisting upon its being a free
gift from the citizens.(502)

(M288)

In March, 1337, a statute forbade the importation of wool, as a preliminary to the imposition
of an additional custom, and in the following year parliament granted the king half the wool
of the kingdom.(503) The Londoners having no wool of their own, paid a composition,(504) and
were often reduced to sore straits. Thus in April, 1339, an assessment had to be made in the
several wards of the City to discharge a debt to the king of 1,000 marks. The men of Aldersgate
ward refused to pay their quota of £9. A precept was thereupon issued to the sheriffs to levy
the larger sum of £16 10s., on the lands, tenements, goods, and chattels of the ward, and pay
the same into the Chamber of the Guildhall by a certain day.(505) The citizens of London, and
the nation generally, would the more willingly have borne these exactions if any adequate good
had resulted from them. But Edward’s first campaign resulted in nothing more than the assumption
by him of the name and arms of the King of France, at a cost of £300,000.(506)

(M289)

Among the ships which had been prepared for the king’s expedition to France, three were known
as "La Jonette," of London; "La Cogge," of All Hallows; and "La Sainte Marie Cogge." The last
mentioned belonged to William Haunsard,(507) an ex-sheriff of London, who subsequently did
signal service in the great naval battle of Sluys. Prior to the king’s departure, measures
were taken for the safe custody of the city during his absence.(508) The City had difficulties
in raising a contingent of soldiers, for many of the best men had joined the retinue of nobles,
and all that could be mustered amounted to no more than 100 men, viz: 40 men-at-arms, and 60
archers.(509)

(M290)

After the king’s departure (12 July, 1338) the City laid in provisions for transmission abroad,
500 quarters of corn and 100 carcases of oxen to be salted down. In addition to which it purchased
1,000 horseshoes and 30,000 nails.(510) In October steps were taken to protect London from
attack by sea and land. Piles were driven into the bed of the river to prevent the approach
of a hostile fleet; the wharves were "bretasched" with boards, and springalds set at different
gates and posterns.(511)

(M291)

In February, 1339, the citizens received the king’s orders to furnish four ships with 300 men,
and four scummars(512) with 160 men, victualled for three months, to proceed to Winchester.
Upon some demur being made to this demand, the number of ships was reduced to two, well equipped
with men and arms. Pursuant to these orders each ward was assessed for the purpose of levying
110 men armed with haketon, plates, bacinet with aventail, and gloves of plate; and sixty men
armed with only haketon and bacinet. The pay of the men was to be threepence a day each for
two months. The vessels were to be joined by ships from various other ports, and proceed to
sea in charge of Sir William Trussel by the middle of March to intercept, if possible, the
enemy’s fleet.(513)

(M292)

By Easter time the danger appeared more imminent, and the mayor and aldermen met hurriedly
in the Guildhall, on Easter Sunday afternoon after dinner. An immediate attack up the Thames
was expected. The mayor and aldermen agreed to take it in turns to watch the river night and
day. On the following Wednesday, each alderman was ordered to enquire as to the number of arbalesters,
archers, and men capable of bearing arms in his ward. A number of carpenters were sworn on
the same day to safe-guard the engines of war laid up in the new house near Petywales.(514)
This new house appears to have been known as "La Bretaske," and was used for storing springalds,
quarels, and other war material.(515)

(M293)

At this period there were kept in the chamber of the Guildhall six instruments called "gonnes,"
which were made of latten, a metal closely resembling brass, five "teleres" or stocks for supporting
the guns, four cwt. and a half of pellets of lead, and thirty-two pounds of gunpowder by way
of ammunition.(516) The mention of "teleres" and the small amount of ammunition favours the
assumption that the instruments were rather hand-guns than heavy pieces, as has been supposed.(517)
A "telere" or tiller was a common name for the stock of a cross-bow,(518) and the earliest
hand-guns or fire-arms known consisted of a simple tube of metal with touch-hole, fixed on
a straight stick or shaft, which when used was passed under the arm so as to afford a better
grip of the weapon.

(M294)

The danger blew over, and before the close of the year the king was expected to return to England.(519)
He did not return however before February, 1340, having intimated his intention to the mayor
of London, by letter from Sluys, dated Sunday the 20th.(520) Notwithstanding his long absence,
he had accomplished little or nothing.

(M295)

He had come to the end of his resources and was in want of money to carry on the war. The City
was asked to lend him £20,000. It offered 5,000 marks. This was contemptuously refused, and
the municipal authorities were bidden to re-consider the matter, or in the alternative to furnish
the king with the names of the wealthier inhabitants of the City. At length the City agreed
to advance the sum of £5,000 for a fixed period, and this offer the king was fain to accept.(521)
At the close of 1339, the chief towns of Flanders had entered into an offensive and defensive
alliance with Edward, and an arrangement was made for paying the sum of £1,500 out of the £5,000
to Jacques van Arteveldt, the king’s agent at Bruges.(522) Three aldermen and nine commoners
were appointed to make the necessary assessment for the loan, for the repayment of which John
de Pulteney was one of the king’s sureties.(523)

(M296)

Provided with this and other money supplied by parliament, Edward again set out for the continent
(June, 1340). With him went a contingent of 283 men-at-arms, furnished by the City, 140 of
them being drawn from that part of the city which lay on the east side of Walbrook, and 143
from the western side. It had been intended to raise 300 men, and the better class of citizens
had been called upon to supply each a quota, or in default to serve in person; but eleven had
failed in their duty and, on that account, had been fined 50 shillings each, whilst six others,
making up the deficit, had set out in the retinue of Henry Darcy, the late mayor.(524)

(M297)

The names of the transport ships and the number of men-at-arms supplied by each city, the number
of mariners and serving-men (garzouns), which were about to take part in the great battle fought
off Sluys (24 June), are on record.(525) Although the French fleet was superior to his own
in numbers and equipment, Edward did not hesitate to attack. The struggle was long and severe,
lasting from noon on one day until six o’clock the next morning. If any one person was more
conspicuous for valour on that occasion than another, it was William Haunsard, an ex-sheriff
of London, who came with "a ship of London" and "did much good."(526)

An account of the battle was despatched by the king to his son the Prince Regent, dated from
his ship, the "Cogg Thomas," the 28th June.(527)

CHAPTER VIII.

(M298)

It was one of the conditions of the Flemish alliance, mentioned at the close of the last chapter,
that the campaign of 1340 should open with the siege of Tournay, and it was with this object
specially in view that Edward had set out from England. After his brilliant victory over the
French fleet which opposed his passage Edward marched upon Tournay. Its siege, however, proved
fruitless, and, disappointed and money-less, he slipt back again to England and made his appearance
unexpectedly one morning at the Tower(528) (30 Nov.).

(M299) (M300)

The king attributed the failure of the war to the remissness of his ministers in sending money
and supplies. Scarcely had he landed before he sent for the chancellor, the treasurer, and
other ministers who were in London, and not only dismissed them from office, but ordered them
each into separate confinement. John de Pulteney was one of those made to feel the king’s anger,
and he was relegated to the castle of Somerton, but as soon as Edward’s irritability had passed
off he and others obtained their freedom.(529) A searching enquiry was instituted in the spring
of the following year (1341) as to the way in which the king’s revenues had been collected
in the city. Objection was raised to the judges holding their session within the city and they
sat at the Tower. Great tumult prevailed, and the citizens refused to answer any questions
until the judges had formally acknowledged the City’s liberties. A special fund was raised
for the purpose of defending the City’s rights.(530) From the 5th March to the 17th March the
justices sat, and then an adjournment was made until the 16th April. On resumption of the session
another adjournment immediately took place owing to parliament sitting at Westminster, and
when the judges should have again sat, the Iter was suddenly determined by order of the king.(531)
The king showed much annoyance at the attitude taken up by the citizens, or at least by a certain
portion of them, with respect to this enquiry, and endeavoured to procure the names of the
ringleaders.(532) Failing in this, and not wishing to make an enemy of the city on which he
largely depended for resources to carry out his military measures, he bestowed a general pardon
on the citizens, and promised that no Iter should be held at the Tower for a period of seven
years.(533)

(M301)

As a further mark of favour he granted to the City, soon after the abrupt termination of the
Iter, a charter confirming previous charters; allowing the citizens in express terms to vary
customs that might in course of time have become incapable of being put into practice, and
declaring the city’s liberties not subject to forfeiture through non-user.(534)

(M302)

In August (1341) the citizens met to consider the question of levying a sum of £2,000, of which
2,000 marks was due to certain citizens in part payment of the £5,000 lent to the king, and
1,000 marks was required for the discharge of the city’s own debts. A certain number of aldermen
and commoners were at the same time appointed to confer with the king’s council touching the
sending of ships of war beyond the seas. The result of the interview was made known to the
citizens at a meeting held later on in the same month. A further grievous burden (vehemens
onus) was to be laid upon them; they were called upon to provide no less than twenty-six ships,
fully equipped and victualled at their own cost.(535)

(M303)

The ships were probably wanted for conveying forces over to Brittany under the command of Sir
Walter de Maunay, in the following year. The king himself made an expedition to that country
in October, 1342, having previously succeeded in borrowing the sum of £1,000 from the citizens.
He had asked for £2,000, but was fain to be content with the lesser sum, security for repayment
of which was demanded and granted.(536)

(M304)

In March, 1343, Edward returned to England, having made a truce with France for three years.(537)
He was beginning to learn the value of the English longbow and the cloth-yard shaft in the
field of battle. Hitherto he, like others before him, had placed too much reliance on charges
by knights on horseback. What the longbow could effect, under proper management, had been experienced
at Falkirk in 1298. It had proved a failure at Bannockburn in 1314 through bad strategy, but
at Halidon Hill twenty years later (1333) it was again effective. It was destined soon to work
a complete reform in English warfare; and the yeoman and archer were to supersede the noble
and knight. The London burgess and apprentice were especially apt with the weapon from constant
practice in Finsbury fields. Edward realised the necessity of fostering the martial spirit
of the Londoners, and on one occasion (January, 1344) invited the wives of the burgesses to
witness a tournament at Windsor, where they were entertained right royally.(538)

(M305)

Before the expiration of the truce Edward was busy with preparations for a renewal of the war.
Four hundred London archers were to be got ready by Midsummer of 1344, as the king was soon
to cross the sea; and 100 men-at-arms and 200 horsemen were to be despatched to Portsmouth.(539)
In 1345, a royal commission was issued for the seizure for the king’s use of all vessels lying
in the river.(540) A further contingent of 160 archers was ordered to Sandwich by Whitsuntide,
and in August the city received another order for yet more archers.(541) In September, the
king informed the mayor by letter that, owing to the defective state of his fleet and the prevalence
of contrary winds, he had postponed setting sail for a short time; the civic authorities were
to keep their men-at-arms and archers ready to set out the morrow after the receipt of orders
to march.(542) Six months elapsed, during which the citizens were kept under arms waiting for
orders, when, on the 18th March, 1346, another letter was sent by the king to the effect that
he had now fully made up his mind to set sail from Portsmouth a fortnight after Easter. The
men-at-arms, the horsemen, and the archers, were to be ready by a certain day on pain of losing
life, limb, and property. On the 28th March, the archers mustered in "Totehull" or Tothill
Fields, near Westminster.(543)

(M306)

The expedition did not actually sail from Portsmouth until the 10th July, the fleet numbering
1,000 vessels more or less.(544) Previous to his departure, Edward caused proclamation to be
made in the city and elsewhere, to the effect that the assessments that had been made throughout
the country for the purpose of equipping the expedition, should not be drawn into precedent.(545)

(M307)

On the 3rd August the regent forwarded to the city a copy of a letter he had received from
the king, giving an account of his passage to Normandy and of the capture of various towns,
and among them of Caen. There he had discovered a document of no little importance.  This was
none other than an agreement made in 1338, whereby Normandy had bound itself to assist the
king of France in his proposed invasion and conquest of England.(546) This document the king
transmitted to England by the hands of the Earl of Huntingdon, who was returning invalided,
and it was publicly read in St. Paul’s Churchyard, with the view of stirring the citizens to
fresh exertions in prosecuting the war. The king’s own letter was also publicly read in the
Husting by the regent’s order.(547) The City was exhorted to have in readiness a force to succour
the king, if need be. Every effort was made to raise money, and the regent did not hesitate
to resort to depreciation of the coinage of the realm in order to help his father. The City
made a free gift to the king of 1,000 marks and lent him 2,000 more.(548)

(M308)

On the 26th August the battle of Creçy was won against a force far outnumbering the English
army. The victory was due in large measure to the superiority of the English longbow over the
crossbow used by the Genoese mercenaries; but it was also a victory of foot soldiers over horsemen.
The field of Bannockburn had shown how easy a thing it was for a body of horsemen to crush
a body of archers, if allowed to take them in the flank, whilst that of Halidon Hill had more
recently taught the king, from personal experience, that archers could turn the tide of battle
against any direct attack, however violent. Edward profited by the experience of that day.
He not only protected the flank of his archers, but interspersed among them dismounted horsemen
with levelled spears, the result being that the French were driven off the field with terrible
slaughter.

(M309)

Flushed with victory Edward proceeded to lay siege to Calais. His forces, which had been already
greatly reduced on the field of Creçy, suffered a further diminution by desertion. The mayor
and sheriffs of London were ordered to seize all deserters, whether knights, esquires, or men
of lower order, found in the city, and to take steps for furnishing the king with fresh recruits
and store of victuals.(549) By Easter of the following year, the City was called upon to furnish
two vessels towards a fleet of 120 large ships, which the council had decided to fit out. All
ships found in the port of London were pressed into the king’s service.(550)

In July (1347) the king was in need of more recruits and provisions.(551) Calais still held
out, although both besiegers and besieged were reduced to sore straits. At last it surrendered
(4 Aug.). Edward spared the lives of its principal burgesses at the intercession of his queen,
but he cleared the town of French inhabitants, and invited Londoners and others to take up
their abode there, offering them houses at low rents and other inducements.(552) A truce with
Philip was agreed on, and Edward returned home. For a time England was resplendent with the
spoils of the French war—"A new sun seemed to shine," wrote Walsingham.(553) Every woman of
position went gaily decked with some portion of the plunder of the town of Caen or Calais;
cupboards shone with silver plate, and wardrobes were filled with foreign furs and rich drapery
of continental workmanship. The golden era was of short duration.

(M310)

In August, 1348, the pestilential scourge, known as the Black Death,(554) appeared in England,
and reached London in the following November. The number of victims it carried off in the city
has been variously computed,(555) but all conjectures of the kind must be received with caution.
All that is known for certain is that the mortality caused a marked increase in the number
of beggars, and, at the same time, raised the price of labour and provisions within the city’s
walls to such a degree that measures had to be taken to remedy both evils.(556) Besides the
losses by death, the population of the city and the country generally was sensibly diminished
by the flight of numbers of inhabitants to the continent, with the hope of escaping the ravages
of the plague. The king’s treasury threatened soon to become empty, and the country left defenceless,
if this were allowed to go on unchecked; he therefore ordered the sheriffs of London to see
that no men-at-arms, strangers or otherwise, left the kingdom, with the exception of well-known
merchants or ambassadors, without the king’s special order.(557) Pilgrimages to Rome or elsewhere
were made an excuse for leaving England, at a time when the king’s subjects could ill be spared.
The king endeavoured to limit this drain upon the population of the kingdom by allowing none
to cross the sea without his special licence. The city authorities having negligently executed
his orders in this respect, received a rebuke in October, 1350, and were told to be more strict
in their observance for the future.(558)

(M311)

On the night which ushered in New Year’s day, 1350, an abortive attempt had been made by the
French to recapture Calais. This ill success rendered Philip the more willing to agree to a
further prolongation of the truce with England. Notification of this cessation of hostilities
was duly sent to the sheriffs of London.(559) Before the truce had come to an end Philip of
Valois had ceased to live, and had been succeeded on the throne of France by John II.

(M312)

The city had scarcely recovered from the ravages of the late pestilence, before it was called
upon (24 July, 1350) to furnish two ships to assist the king in putting down piracy. These
were accordingly fitted out; the ship of Andrew Turk being furnished with 40 men-at-arms and
60 archers, whilst that of Goscelin de Cleve had on board 30 men-at-arms and 40 archers.(560)
With their aid, Edward succeeded in utterly defeating a Spanish fleet which had recently inflicted
much damage on the Bordeaux wine fleet, and capturing 24 large ships laden with rich merchandise.(561)
The citizens had further to submit to a tax on wool and wine, in order to maintain the king’s
vessels engaged in putting down piracy.(562)

(M313)

In 1354 an exception was made by special charter of the king in favour of the City of London,
and its sergeants were permitted to carry maces of gold or silver, or plated with silver, and
bearing the royal arms. Ten years before the commons of England had petitioned the king (inter
alia) not to allow any one to carry maces tipped with silver in city or borough, except the
king’s own officers. All others were to carry maces tipped with copper only (virolez de cuevere),
with staves of wood as formerly. The petition was granted saving that the sergeants of the
City of London might carry their mace within the liberties of the city and before the mayor
in the king’s presence.(563) This same year (1354), moreover, the king with the assent of parliament
had again forbidden the carrying of gold or silver maces. Thenceforth, maces were to be of
iron, brass or tin, or staves tipped with latten, and not to bear representations of the royal
arms, but the arms or signs of the city using them. Again exception was made in the case of
London; two sergeants of the City as well as of the City of York being permitted to carry gold
or silver maces, but they were not to be surmounted with the royal arms. This led to a humble
remonstrance from the whole body of the citizens of London, presented to the chancellor and
the council by their mayor, Adam Fraunceys, and within a month the charter above mentioned
was granted. That the charter originated or authorized the title of "Lord" Mayor, as some have
supposed, is extremely improbable.

(M314)

In 1355, all efforts to convert the truce into a final peace having failed, war with France
was renewed. Edward was soon called home by fresh troubles in Scotland. Having recovered Berwick,
which had been taken by surprise, and formally received the crown of Scotland from Edward Baliol,
he prepared to rejoin his son, the Black Prince, in France, and in March, 1356, ordered the
city to furnish him with two vessels of war.(564)

(M315)

News of the battle of Poitiers (19 September, 1356), and of the defeat and capture of the French
king, was received in the city by letter from the Prince of Wales, dated 22nd October.(565)
Again the English longbow, combined with superior tactics, gained the day. The prince, on his
return, made a triumphal entry into the city, passing over London Bridge on his way to Westminster,
with the captive king and the king’s son in his train.(566) The streets were almost impassable
for the multitude that thronged them; and for the moment the citizens forgot at what cost to
themselves the victory had been gained. A truce—a welcome truce—for two years followed.(567)

(M316)

Only a few weeks before the prince’s return the citizens had laid before the king a list of
their grievances and prayed for redress.(568) They had complained of being charged taxes and
talliages in excess of any other of the commons. They had lent the king at Dordrecht no less
a sum than £60,000, and had incurred further loss by the discrepancy between the weight for
weighing wool at Dordrecht and that of England. They had lent the king further sums of £5,000
and £2,000 on two separate occasions, which had not been repaid. The sum of £40,000 had been
advanced to the king’s merchants at Calais and elsewhere, and this, together with other sums
lent (amounting to over £30,000), was still outstanding to the grievous hurt of many citizens.
They had, moreover, been called upon to undergo more charges than others with respect to the
king’s expeditions to Scotland, Flanders and France, and in providing men-at-arms, archers
and ships, in aid of his wars. Nor did their complaints stop here. The king’s purveyors had
been accustomed to seize the carriages, victuals and merchandise of citizens without offering
payment for the same, in direct contravention of the king’s first charter to the city. Owing,
moreover, to deaths by the plague, so much property had come into mortmain that the city had
become impoverished, and one-third part of it rendered void of inhabitants. These points they
had desired the king to consider, inasmuch as the city had always been loyal and peaceful,
setting an example to the whole country. The petition wound up with the usual complaint against
the privileges allowed foreign merchants, and a request that the king would grant them letters
patent under the great seal, such as they might show to the purveyors whenever they attempted
to take anything without payment.(569)

(M317)

After the expiration of the truce Edward again set out for France. That country, however, had
suffered so much during the last two years at the hands of freebooters, that Edward experienced
the greatest difficulty in finding sufficient provisions for his army. Whilst he was traversing
France in search of a force with which to try conclusions in the field, a Norman fleet swept
down upon the south coast and sacked Winchelsea. The news of this disaster so incensed the
king that he determined to march direct on Paris. The Londoners, in the meantime, assisted
in fitting out a fleet of eighty vessels, manned with 14,000 men, including archers, in order
to wipe out this disgrace, but the enemy contrived to make good their escape.(570)

(M318)

At length Edward was induced to accede to the terms offered by France, and the peace of Bretigny
was concluded (8th May, 1360). The terms were very favourable to England, although Edward consented
to abandon all claim to the French crown. King John was to be ransomed, but the price set on
his release was so high that some years elapsed before the money could be raised, and then
only with the assistance of a few of the livery companies of the city, which showed their sympathy
with the captured king by contributing to the fund being raised for the purpose of restoring
him to liberty.(571) It was John’s high sense of honour that kept him in captivity in England
until his death in 1364. He had in fact been liberated and allowed to return to France soon
after the conclusion of peace, on payment of part of his ransom, hostages being accepted for
payment of the remainder. In 1363 one of the hostages broke his pledge and fled, and John,
shocked at such perfidy, returned Regulus-like to England. Hence it was that he appears as
one of the four kings whom Picard, the mayor, entertained that same year at a banquet, followed
by play at dice and hazard.(572)

(M319)

The citizens now enjoyed a period of leisure which they were not slow to turn to account. The
years which followed the peace of Bretigny, until war broke out afresh in 1369, witnessed the
re-organisation of many of the trade and craft guilds. Some of these, like the Goldsmiths,
the Tailors or Linen-Armourers, and the Skinners, had already obtained charters from Edward
soon after his accession, so had also the Fishmongers, although the earliest extant charter
of the company is dated 1363. The Vintners date their chartered rights from the same year;
the Drapers from 1364; whilst the more ancient company of Weavers obtained a confirmation of
their privileges in 1365. Minor guilds, like the Founders, the Plumbers, the Fullers and others,
had to content themselves with the recognition of their ordinances by the civic authorities
alone between 1364 and 1369.

The king’s favour was purchased in 1363 by a gift of nearly £500, to which the livery companies
largely contributed.(573) The amount of each subscription varied from half-a-mark to £40, the
latter sum being contributed by the Mercers, the Fishmongers, the Drapers, and the Skinners
respectively. The Tailors subscribed half that amount, being outdone by the Vintners, who contributed
£33 6s. 8d.

(M320)

With the renewal of the war, a change comes over the pages of the City’s annals. The London
bachelor and apprentice is drawn off from his football and hockey, with which he had beguiled
his leisure hours, and bidden to devote himself to the more useful pursuits of shooting with
arrow or bolt on high days and holidays.(574) Once more we meet with schedules of men-at-arms
and archers provided by the City for service abroad, and of assessments made on the City’s
wards to pay for them.(575) Every inducement in the shape of plunder was held out to volunteers
for enlistment, and public proclamation was made to the effect that the spoils of France should
belong to the captors themselves.(576)

(M321)

It was an easier matter for the City to provide the king with money than men. In 1370 it advanced
a sum of £5,000,(577) and in the following year a further sum of £4,000, and more was subscribed
by the wealthier citizens, among whom were William Walworth, who contributed over £200, Adam
Fraunceys, Simon de Mordon, and others.(578)

(M322)

Still the expenses of the war exceeded the supply of money, and resort was had to a new form
of taxation, by which it was hoped that a sum of £50,000 might be realised. By order of parliament,
made in March, 1371, the sum of 22s. 3d. was to be levied on every parish in the kingdom, the
number of parishes being reckoned as amounting to 40,000. It soon became apparent that the
number of existing parishes throughout the country had been grossly miscalculated. There were
not more than 9,000, and the amount of assessment had to be proportionately raised. It was
necessary to summon a council at Westminster in June, to remedy the miscalculation that had
been made in March. Half of the representatives of the late parliament were summoned to meet
the king, and among them two of the city’s members, Bartholomew Frestlyng and John Philipot—"the
first Englishman who has left behind him the reputation of a financier."(579) The mistake was
rectified, the charge of 22s. 3d. was raised to 116s. and the city was called upon to raise
over £600.(580)

In the meantime the civic authorities had, in answer to the king’s writ,(581) prepared a return
of the number of parish churches, chapels and prebends within the city.(582) It was found that
within the city and suburbs there were 106 parish churches(583) and thirty prebends, but only
two of the latter were within the liberties. There was also the free chapel of St. Martin’s-le-Grand,
which embraced eleven prebends, all within the liberty of the city, and there were, moreover,
two other chapels within the liberty. Besides these (the return stated) there were none other.

(M323)

The bare fact that there existed over 100 parishes, each with its parish church, within so
small an area as that covered by the city and its suburbs, is of itself sufficient to remind
us that, besides having a municipal and commercial history, the city also possesses an ecclesiastical.
The church of St. Paul, the largest foundation in the city, with its resident canons exercising
magnificent hospitality, was a centre to which London looked as a mother, although it was not
strictly speaking the metropolitan cathedral. That title properly applies to the Minster at
Canterbury; but the church of Canterbury being in the hands of a monastic chapter left St.
Paul’s at the head of the secular clergy of southern England.(584) Besides the hundred and
more churches there were monastic establishments and colleges which covered a good fourth part
of the whole city. The collegiate church of St. Martin’s-le-Grand almost rivalled its neighbour
the cathedral church itself in the area of its precinct. The houses of the Black Friars and
Grey Friars in the west were only equalled by those belonging to the Augustine and Crossed
Friars towards the east; while the Priory of St. Bartholomew found a counterpart in the Priory
of Holy Trinity. The church was everywhere and ruled everything, and its influence manifests
itself nowhere more strongly than in the number of ecclesiastical topics which fill the pages
of early chronicles in connection with London.(585)

(M324)

The war brought little credit or advantage in return for outlay. In January, 1371, the Black
Prince had returned to England with the glory of former achievements sullied by his massacre
at Limoges, and the City of London had made him a present of valuable plate.(586) The conduct
of the war was transferred to his eldest surviving brother, John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster.
In 1372 the king himself set out with the flower of the English nobility, and accompanied by
a band of London archers and crossbow men.(587) The expedition, which had for its object the
relief of Rochelle, and which is said to have cost no less than £900,000, proved disastrous,
and Edward returned after a brief absence.(588) In 1373 the city furnished him with a transport
barge called "The Paul of London." The barge when it left London for Southampton was fully
supplied with rigging and tackle; nevertheless, on its arrival at the latter port, it was found
to be so deficient in equipment that it could not proceed to sea. The only explanation that
the master of the barge could give of the matter was that a certain number of anchors and cables
had been lost on the voyage. The City paid twenty marks to make up the defects.(589) The year
was marked by a campaign under Lancaster which ended in the utmost disaster. The French avoided
a general action; the English soldiers deserted, and as the winter came on the troops perished
from cold, hunger and disease. By 1374 the French had recovered nearly all of their former
possessions. England was tired of the war and of the ceaseless expenditure it involved. It
was with no little joy that the Londoners heard, in July, 1375,(590) that peace had been concluded.

(M325)

In April, 1376, a parliament met, known as the Good Parliament,(591) and before granting supply
it demanded an account of former receipts and expenditure. No less than three city aldermen
were charged with malversation. Richard Lyons, of Broad Street ward, was convicted with Lord
Latimer of embezzling the king’s revenue, and sentenced to imprisonment and forfeiture of goods.(592)
Adam de Bury, of Langbourn ward, who had twice served the office of mayor, was charged with
appropriating money subscribed for the ransom of the French king and fled to Flanders to avoid
trial;(593) whilst John Pecche of Walbrook ward was convicted of an extortionate exercise of
a monopoly of sweet wines and his patent annulled. All three aldermen were deposed from their
aldermanries by order of an assembly of citizens composed of representatives from the various
guilds and not from the wards.(594)

(M326)

The guilds, indeed, were now claiming a more direct participation in the government of the
city than they had hitherto enjoyed, and their claim had given rise to so much commotion that
the king himself threatened to interpose.(595) The threat was not liked, and the citizens hastened
to assure him that no disturbance had occurred in the city beyond what proceeded from reasonable
debate on an open question, and that to prevent the noise and tumult arising from large assemblies,
they had unanimously decided that in future the Common Council should be chosen from the guilds
and not otherwise.(596) This reply was sent to the king by the hands of two aldermen—William
Walworth and Nicholas Brembre—and six commoners, and the following day (2 August) the king
sent another letter accepting the explanation that had been offered, and expressing a hope
that the city would be so governed as not to require his personal intervention.(597)

Not only was the common council to be selected in future by the guilds, but the guilds were
also to elect the mayor and the sheriffs.  The aldermen and the commons were to meet together
at least once a quarter,(598) and no member of the common council was to serve on inquests,
nor be appointed collector or assessor of a talliage. This last provision may have been due
to the recent discoveries of malversation, but, however that may be, it was found to work so
well that it was more than once re-enacted.(599) These changes in the internal administration
of the city were avowedly made by virtue of Edward’s charter, which specifically gave the citizens
a right to remedy hard or defective customs.(600)

(M327)

The power of the guilds in the matter of elections to the common council was not of long duration.
Before ten years had elapsed representation was made that the new system had been forced on
the citizens, and in 1384 it was resolved to revert to the old system of election by and from
the wards.(601)

(M328)

Encouraged by the success which had so far attended their efforts of reform, the good parliament
next attacked Alice Perers, the king’s mistress. Of humble origin, and not even possessing
the quality of good looks, this lady, for whom the mediæval chroniclers have scarcely a good
word to say,(602) nevertheless gained so complete a mastery over the king as to favour the
popular belief that she indulged in magic. At length her barefaced interference in public affairs
led to an award against her of banishment and forfeiture. Upon the dissolution of the good
parliament (6 July, 1376), and the meeting of a new parliament, elected under the direct influence
of the Earl of Lancaster, who once more gained the upper hand now that the Black Prince was
dead, Alice Perers was allowed to return.(603) She was again in disgrace soon after Richard’s
accession, when her property, much of which consisted of real estate in the City,(604) became
escheated, and the citizens of London were promised redress for any harm she might have done
them.(605) She was afterwards married to Sir William de Windsor, who, in 1376, had got himself
into trouble over a disturbance in Whitefriars(606)—a quarter of the city which, under the
name of Alsatia, became afterwards notorious for riots, and as the resort of bad characters.
Towards the close of 1379 her sentence of banishment, never strictly enforced, was revoked
and pardon extended to her and her husband.(607)

(M329)

In December, 1376, the citizens obtained a charter from the king, with the assent of parliament,
granting that no strangers (i.e. non-freemen) should thenceforth be allowed to sell by retail
within the city and suburbs. This had always been considered a grievance, ever since free trade
had been granted to merchant strangers by the parliament held at York in 1335.

(M330)

The last year of Edward’s reign was one of serious opposition between the City and the selfish
and unprincipled Lancaster. In so far as the duke, with the assistance of Wycliffe, meditated
a reform among the higher clergy, he might, if he would, have had the city with him. The citizens,
like the great reformer himself, were opposed to the practice of the clergy heaping up riches
and intermeddling with political matters. The duke, however, went out of his way to hurt the
feelings of the citizens, by proposing to abolish the mayoralty and otherwise encroach upon
their liberties.(608) Not content with this he took the occasion when Wycliffe was summoned
to appear at St. Paul’s (19 Feb., 1377), to offer violence to Courtenay, their bishop. This
so incensed the citizens that the meeting broke up in confusion. The next day the mob, now
thoroughly roused, hastened to the Savoy where the duke resided. He happened, however, to be
dining in the city at the time, with a certain John de Ypre. The company had scarcely sat down
to their oysters before a soldier knocked at the door and warned them of the danger. They forthwith
jumped up from the table, the duke barking his shins (we are told) in so doing, and, making
their way to the riverside, took boat for Kennington, where the duke sought protection in the
house of the Princess of Wales. Thanks to the intervention of the bishop, who appeared on the
scene, the mob did but little serious harm, beyond ill-using a priest and some of the duke’s
retainers whom they happened to come across.(609)

(M331)

The civic authorities were naturally anxious as to what the king might say and do in consequence
of the outbreak, and desired an interview in order to explain matters. Lancaster was opposed
to any such interview taking place. The London mob had seized upon an escutcheon of the duke,
displayed in some public thoroughfare, and had reversed it by way of signifying that it was
the escutcheon of a traitor.(610) This had particularly raised his anger. Nevertheless, in
spite of his efforts to prevent it, an interview was accorded to a deputation from the city,
of which John Philipot acted as spokesman. After drawing the king’s attention to the threatened
attack on the privileges of the city, and the proposed substitution of a "captain" for a mayor,
Philipot offered an apology for the late riot. It had taken place, he said, without the cognisance
of the civic authorities. Among a large population there were sure to be some bad characters
whom it was difficult to restrain, even by the authority of the mayor, when once excited. A
mob acted after the manner of a tornado, flying hither and thither, bent on committing havoc
at anybody’s expense, even its own, but, thank God! the duke had suffered no harm nor had any
of his retinue been hurt. The king having listened to the deputation, assured them in reply,
that so far from wishing to lessen the privileges of the city, he had a mind to enlarge them.
They were not to alarm themselves, but to go home and endeavour to preserve peace. On leaving
the presence the deputation met the duke, with whom they interchanged courtesies.(611) In the
meanwhile lampoons on the duke were posted in the city. The duke became furious and demanded
the excommunication of the authors. The bishops hesitated through fear of the mob, but at last
the Bishop of Bangor was induced by representations made to him by leading citizens, who wished
it to be known that they did not approve of such libels, to execute the duke’s wishes.(612)

(M332)

The duke was determined to have his revenge, and again the citizens were summoned to appear
before the king, who was lying at Shene. This time they did not get off so easily. The mayor,
Adam Stable, was removed, and Nicholas Brembre appointed in his place. A fresh election of
aldermen took place,(613) and the City did penance for the recent insult to the duke’s escutcheon
by offering, at the king’s confidential suggestion, a wax taper bearing the duke’s arms in
St. Paul’s. Even that did not satisfy him; nay, it was adding insult to injury (he said), for
such an act was an honour usually paid to one who was dead! The citizens were in despair, and
doubted if anything would satisfy him, short of proclaiming him king.(614)

(M333)

One of the last acts of Edward was to restore the Bishop of Winchester to the temporalities
of which he had been deprived by the duke, and this restitution was made at the instance and
by the influence of Alice Perers,(615) who within a few weeks robbed her dying paramour of
his finger rings and fled.(616)

CHAPTER IX.

(M334)

Shortly after Edward had breathed his last, a deputation from the City waited upon the Prince
of Wales at Kennington. John Philipot again acted as spokesman, and after alluding to the loss
which the country had recently sustained, and recommending the City of London—the "king’s chamber"—to
the prince’s favour, begged him to assist in effecting a reconciliation with Lancaster. This
Richard promised to do, and a few days later the deputation again waited on the young king—this
time at Shene, where preparations were being made for the late king’s obsequies—and a reconciliation
took place, the king kissing each member of the deputation, and promising to be their friend,
and to look after the City’s interests as if they were his own.(617) Formal announcement of
the reconciliation was afterwards made at Westminster, and Peter de la Mare, long a prisoner
in Nottingham Castle, was set free, to the great joy of the citizens.(618)

(M335)

At the express wish of the citizens, Richard—the "Londoners’ king," as the nobles were in the
habit of cynically styling the new sovereign, for the reason that he had ascended the throne
more by the assistance of the bourgeois Londoner than of the nobility(619)—took up his quarters
at the Tower, whence he proceeded in state to Westminster for his coronation. Great preparations
were made in the city to tender his progress through the streets one of exceptional splendour.
The claim of the mayor and citizens to assist the chief butler at the banquet was discourteously
refused by Robert Belknap, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, who bluntly told them that they
might be of service in washing up the pots and pans. The citizens had their revenge, however.
They set up an effigy of the man at a conspicuous arch or tower in Cheapside, in which he appeared
to the whole of the procession as it passed on its way to Westminster, in the ignominious attitude
of vomiting wine.(620) This was enough; the Londoners gained the day, and were allowed to perform
their customary services at the banquet, and the mayor got his gold cup.(621)

(M336)

Richard was only eleven years of age when raised to the throne. A council was therefore appointed
to govern in his name. Neither the Duke of Lancaster nor any other of the king’s uncles were
elected councillors, and, for a time, John of Gaunt retired into comparative privacy. The task
of the council was not easy. The French plundered the coast,(622) and the Scots plundered the
borders. Money was sorely needed. The City consented to advance the sum of £5,000 upon the
security of the customs of the Port of London and of certain plate and jewels,(623) and when
parliament met (13 Oct., 1377) it made a liberal grant of two tenths and two fifteenths, which
was to be collected without delay, on the understanding that two treasurers should be appointed
to superintend the due application of the money.(624) The two treasurers appointed for this
purpose were two citizens of note, namely, William Walworth and John Philipot, of whose financial
capability mention has already been made.

(M337)

Before parliament broke up it gave its assent to a new charter to the City.(625) Foreigners
(i.e. non-freemen) were again forbidden to traffic in the city among themselves by retail,
and the City’s franchises were confirmed and enlarged. So much importance was attached to this
charter that Brembre, the mayor, caused its main provisions to be published throughout the
city.(626)

(M338)

Lancaster soon became tired of playing a subordinate part in the government of the kingdom.
As a preliminary step to higher aims, he contrived, after some little opposition, to obtain
the removal of the subsidy granted by the last parliament, out of the hands of Walworth and
Philipot into his own, although these men had given no cause for suspicion of dishonourable
conduct in the execution of their public trust.(627)

(M339)

The energetic John Philipot soon found other work to do. The English coast had recently become
infested with a band of pirates, who, having already made a successful descent upon Scarborough,
were now seeking fresh adventures. Philipot fitted out a fleet at his own expense, and putting
to sea succeeded in capturing the ringleader,(628) a feat which rendered him so popular as
to excite the jealousy of the Duke of Lancaster and other nobles. His fellow citizens showed
their appreciation of his character by electing him to succeed Brembre in the mayoralty in
October (1378).(629)

(M340)

The citizens were, however, split up into factions, one party, with Philipot and Brembre at
his head, maintaining a stubborn opposition to Lancaster, whilst another, under the leadership
of Walworth and John de Northampton, favoured the duke. These factions were continually plotting
and counter-plotting one against the other. At Gloucester, to which the duke had brought the
parliament in 1378, in the hope of escaping from the interference of the "ribald" Londoners,(630)
Brembre was arraigned on a charge of having connived during his recent mayoralty at an attack
made on the house of the duke’s younger brother, Thomas of Woodstock, Earl of Buckingham, and
although he succeeded in proving his innocence, the earl and his party continued to use threats,
and Brembre, in order to smooth matters over, consented to be mulcted in 100 marks. When the
matter was reported to the Common Council at home (25 Nov.), that body not only signified its
approval of his conduct—"knowing for certain that it was for no demerits of his own, but for
the preservation of the liberties of the city, and for the extreme love which he bore it, that
he had undergone such labours and expenses,"—but recouped him what he had disbursed.(631)

(M341)

In course of time the earl and his followers succeeded in persecuting Brembre to a disgraceful
death. At present they contented themselves with damaging the trade of the city, so far as
they could, by leaving the city en masse and withdrawing their custom. The result was so disastrous
to the citizens, more especially to the hostel keepers and victuallers, that the civic authorities
resolved to win the nobles back to the city by wholesale bribery, and, as the city’s "chamber"
was empty, a subscription list was set on foot to raise a fund for the purpose. Philipot, the
mayor, headed the list with £10, a sum just double that of any other subscriber. Six others,
among them being Brembre (the earl’s particular enemy) and Walworth, subscribed respectively
£5; whilst the rest contributed sums varying from £4 down to five marks, the last mentioned
sum being subscribed by Richard "Whytyngdon" of famous memory.(632)

(M342)

The grants made to the king by the parliament at Gloucester were soon exhausted by the war,
and recourse was had, as usual, to the City. In February, 1379, the mayor and aldermen were
sent for to Westminster. They were told that the king’s necessities demanded an immediate supply
of money, and that the Duke of Lancaster and the rest of the nobility had consented to contribute.
What would the City do? After a brief consultation apart, the mayor and aldermen suggested
that the usual course should be followed and that they should be allowed to consult the general
body of the citizens in the Guildhall. Eventually the City consented to advance another sum
of £5,000 on the same security as before, but any tax imposed by parliament at its next session
was to be taken as a set off.(633)

(M343)

At the session of parliament held in April and May (1379), the demand for further supply became
so urgent that a poll-tax was imposed on a graduated scale according to a man’s dignity, ranging
from ten marks or £6 1s. 4d. imposed on a duke, to a groat or four pence which the poorest
peasant was called upon to pay. The mayor of London, assessed as an earl, was to pay £4; and
the aldermen, assessed as barons, £2. The sum thus furnished by the city amounted to less than
£700,(634) and the whole amount levied on the country did not exceed £22,000, a sum far short
of what had been anticipated.

(M344)

In the following year (1380) there was a recurrence to the old method of raising money, but
this proving still insufficient a poll-tax was again resorted to. This time, the smallest sum
exacted was not less than three groats, and was payable on everyman, woman and unmarried child,
above the age of fifteen, throughout the country. The amount thus raised in the city and liberties
was just over £1000.(635) The tax was especially irritating from its inquisitorial character,
and led to serious consequences.

(M345)

The country was already suffering under a general discontent, when a certain Wat Tyler in Kent
struck down a collector of the poll-tax, who attempted in an indecent manner to discover his
daughter’s age. This was the signal for a revolt of the peasants from one end of England to
the other, not only against payment of this particular tax, but against taxes and landlords
generally. The men of Essex joined forces with those of Kent on Blackheath, and thence marched
on London. With the aid of sympathisers within the City’s gates, the effected an entrance on
the night of the 12th of June, and made free with the wine cellars of the wealthier class.
The next day, the rebels, more mad than drunk (non tam ebrii quam dementes), stirred up the
populace to make a raid upon the Duke of Lancaster’s palace of the Savoy. This they sacked
and burnt to the ground. They next vented their wrath upon the Temple, and afterwards upon
the house of the Knight’s Hospitallers at Clerkenwell. In the meantime reinforcements were
gathering in Essex under the leadership of one known as "Jack Straw," and were hurrying to
London. At Mile End they were met (14 June) by the young king himself, who set out from the
Tower for that purpose, accompanied by a retinue of knights and esquires on horseback, as well
as by his mother in a drawn vehicle. The rebels demanded the surrender of all traitors to the
king. To this Richard gave his assent, and having done so returned to the city to take up his
quarters at the Wardrobe, near Castle Baynard, whilst the rebels, availing themselves of the
king’s word, hurried off to the Tower. There they found Simon of Sudbury, Archbishop of Canterbury,
and he and others were beheaded on Tower Hill. The rest of the day and the whole of the next
were given up to plunder and massacre, so that the narrow streets were choked with corpses.
Among those who perished at the hands of the rebels was Richard Lyons, the deposed alderman.
At length, on the evening of Saturday, the 15th, when the king had ridden to Smithfield accompanied
by Walworth, the mayor, and a large retinue in order to discuss matters with Wat Tyler (the
Essex men had for the most part returned home), an altercation happened to arise between Tyler
and one of the royal suite. Words were about to lead to blows when the mayor himself interposed,
and summarily executed the king’s order to arrest Tyler by bringing him to the ground by a
fatal blow of his dagger. Deprived of their leader the mob became furious, and demanded Walworth’s
head; the mayor, however, contrived to slip back into the City, whence he quickly returned
with such a force that the rioters were surrounded and compelled to submit. The king intervened
to prevent further bloodshed, and knighted on the field not only Walworth, but also Nicholas
Brembre, John Philipot and Robert Launde.(636) The same day a royal commission was issued to
enquire into the late riot and to bring the offenders to account.(637)

(M346)

Orders were given on the 20th June to each alderman to provide men-at-arms and archers to guard
in turns the city’s gates, and to see that no armed person entered the city, except those who
declared on oath that they were about to join the king’s expedition against the rebels. In
the meantime, the aldermen were to make returns of all who kept hostels in their several wards.(638)
In a list, containing nearly 200 names of divers persons of bad character, who had left the
city by reason of the insurrection,(639) there appear the names of two servants of Henry "Grenecobbe."
The name is far from common, and we shall not perhaps be far wrong in conjecturing that the
owner of it was a relation of William "Gryndecobbe," who led the insurgents against the abbey
of St. Albans and compelled the abbot to surrender its charter.(640)

(M347)

"Jack Straw," on being brought before the mayor, was induced by promises of masses for the
good of his soul, to confess the nature of the intentions of the rioters, which were to use
the king’s person as a stalking horse for drawing people to their side, and eventually to kill
him and all in authority throughout the kingdom. The mendicant friars, who were believed to
be at the bottom of the insurrection,(641) were alone to be spared. Wat Tyler was to be made
king of Kent, whilst others were to be placed in similar positions over the rest of the counties.
The mayor sentenced him to be beheaded. This done, his head was set up on London Bridge, where
Wat Tyler’s already figured.(642)

(M348)

The discontent which had given rise to the peasants’ revolt, had been fanned by the attacks
made by Wycliffe’s "simple priests" upon the rich and idle clergy. The revolt occasioned a
bitter feeling among the landlord class against Wycliffe and his followers, and after its suppression
the Lollards were made the object of much animadversion. Their preaching was forbidden,(643)
and Wycliffe was obliged to retire to his country parsonage, where he continued to labour with
his pen for the cause he had so much at heart, until his death in 1384.

(M349)

The majority of the citizens favoured the doctrines of Wycliffe and his followers and endeavoured
to carry them out. The Duke of Lancaster had no real sympathy with the Lollards; he only wished
to make use of them for a political purpose. It was otherwise with the Londoners, and with
John de Northampton, a supporter of the duke, who succeeded to the mayoralty soon after the
suppression of the revolt. Under Northampton—a man whom even his enemies allowed to be of stern
purpose, not truckling to those above him, nor bending to his inferiors,(644)—many reforms
were carried out, ecclesiastical as well as civil.

The ecclesiastical courts having grossly failed in their duty, the citizens themselves, fearful
of God’s vengeance if matters were allowed to continue as they were, undertook the work of
reform within the city’s walls. The fees of the city parsons were cut down. The fee for baptism
was not to exceed forty pence, whilst that for marriage was not as a general rule to be more
than half a mark. One farthing was all that could be demanded for a mass for the dead, and
the priest was bound to give change for a half-penny when requested or forego his fee.(645)
Steps were taken at the same time to improve the morality of the city by ridding the streets
of lewd women and licentious men. On the occasion of a first offence, culprits of either sex
were subjected to the ignominy of having their hair cropt for future identification, and then
conducted with rough music through the public thoroughfares, the men to the pillory and the
women to the "thewe." After a third conviction, they were made to abjure the City altogether.(646)
It was during Northampton’s first year of the mayoralty that the citizens succeeded in breaking
down the monopoly of the free fish-mongers. A number of "dossers" or baskets for carrying fish
were also seized because they were deficient in holding capacity, and on that account were
calculated to defraud the purchaser.(647)  But, although a mayor in those days exercised, no
doubt, greater power in the municipal government than now, we must be careful to avoid the
common mistake of attributing to the individuality of the mayor for the time being what was
really the action of the citizens as a body corporate.

(M350)

In October, 1382, Northampton was elected mayor for the second time, and Philipot, his rival,
either resigned or was deprived of his aldermancy.(648) His re-election was at the king’s express
wish. On the 6th he wrote to the sheriffs, aldermen and commons of the city intimating that,
whilst anxious to leave the citizens free choice in the matter of election of their mayor,
he would be personally gratified if their choice fell upon the outgoing mayor. At first Northampton
declined re-election, but he afterwards consented to serve another year on receiving a written
request from the king.(649) His hesitation was probably due to the factious state of the city.
Brembre and Philipot were not his only enemies. Another alderman, Nicholas Exton, of Queenhithe
Ward, had recently been removed from his aldermancy for opprobrious words used to Northampton
during his first mayoralty. A petition had been laid before the Court of Common Council in
August, 1382, when Exton himself being present, and seeing the turn affairs were taking, endeavoured
to anticipate the judgment of the court, by himself asking to be exonerated from his office,
declaring at the same time that he had offered a large sum of money to be released at his election
in the first instance. The court wishing for further time to consider the matter adjourned.
At its next meeting a similar petition was again presented, but the court hesitated to pronounce
judgment in the absence of Exton, who was summoned to appear at the next Common Council. When
the court met again, it was found that Exton had ignored the summons. Judgment was, therefore,
pronounced in his absence and he was deprived of his aldermancy.(650)

(M351)

At the close of Northampton’s second mayoralty (Oct., 1383), his place was taken by his rival,
Nicholas Brembre,(651) and a general reversal of the order of things took place. The free-fishmongers
recovered their ancient privileges,(652) and the judgment passed upon Exton as well as a similar
judgment passed upon another alderman, Adam Carlile, were reversed.(653)

(M352)

Soon after Brembre’s election the king confirmed the City’s liberties by charter,(654) which
had the assent of parliament. Two years previously the citizens had besought the newly-married
queen to use her interest with Richard to that end.(655) Her good offices, as well as the fact
that the City had recently advanced to the king the sum of 4,000 marks, on the security of
the royal crown and other things,(656) may have been instrumental in obtaining for the citizens
this fresh confirmation of their rights.

(M353)

In January (1384) Northampton was bound over to keep the peace in the sum of £5,000;(657) but
in the following month he was put under arrest (together with his brother, known as Robert
"Cumberton," and another), for raising a disturbance in the City, and sent to Corfe Castle.(658)
For Northampton’s arrest, as well as for the summary execution of a certain John Constantyn,
a cordwainer, who had been convicted of taking a leading part in the disturbance, Brembre received
a letter of indemnity from the king.(659) The riot had one good effect. It roused public opinion
against monopolies and restriction of trade to such an extent, that Richard very soon afterwards
caused the city to be opened freely to all foreigners (i.e., non-freemen) wishing to sell fish
or other victuals.(660)

(M354)

In August (1384) the opinion of each individual member of the Common Council was taken on oath,
as to whether it would be to the advantage or disadvantage of the city if Northampton were
allowed to return; and it was unanimously found that his return would breed dissension rather
than peace and unity.(661) Armed with this plébiscite the mayor and a number of citizens, whom
the king had summoned by name, attended a council at Reading for the purpose of determining
the fate of Northampton. The accused contented himself with objecting to sentence being passed
against him in the absence of his patron the Duke of Lancaster. This, however, availed him
nothing, and he was sentenced to perpetual imprisonment in Tintagel Castle.(662) Another authority(663)
states that the mayor brought with him to the council a man named Thomas Husk or Usk (whose
name, by the way, does not appear in the list which the king forwarded to the mayor), who made
a number of charges against Northampton. The prisoner so far forgot himself in the royal presence
as to call Usk a liar, and to challenge him to a duel. Matters were not improved by Northampton’s
appeal for delay in passing sentence upon him in the absence of the Duke of Lancaster. Richard
flushed crimson with anger at the proposal, declaring that he was ready to sit in judgment
upon the duke no less than on Northampton, and forthwith ordered the latter’s execution, and
the confiscation of his goods. The sentence would have been earned out but for the timely intercession
of the queen, who flung herself at her husband’s feet and begged for the prisoner’s life. The
queen’s prayer was granted, and Northampton was condemned to perpetual imprisonment and remitted
to Corfe Castle. Thence, at the beginning of September, he was removed to the Tower of London,
where two of his partisans, John More, one of the sheriffs, and Richard Northbury, recently
arrested, were lodged.

(M355)

The Chief Justice, Tressilian, hesitated to take any steps against the prisoners, one of whom
had already been tried and sentenced, asserting that the matter lay within the jurisdiction
of the mayor. His scruples, however, on this score were easily set aside, and on the 10th September,
each of the prisoners was sentenced to be drawn and hanged. No sooner was sentence passed than
the chancellor, Michael de la Pole, entered on the scene, and proclaimed that the king’s grace
had been extended to the prisoners, that there lives would be spared, but that they would be
imprisoned until further favour should be shown them. They were accordingly sent off to various
fortresses; Northampton to Tintagel Castle in Cornwall, Northbury to Corfe Castle, and More
to Nottingham; and all this arose, says the Chronicler, from the rivalry of fishmongers.(664)

(M356)

When Brembre sought re-election to the mayoralty in October, 1384, he found a formidable competitor
in Nicholas Twyford, with whom he had not always been on the best of terms. It was in 1378,
when Twyford was sheriff and Brembre was occupying the mayoralty chair for the first time,
that they fell out, the occasion being one of those trade disputes so frequent in the City’s
annals. A number of goldsmiths and pepperers had come to loggerheads in St. Paul’s Churchyard
during sermon time, and the mayor had committed one of the ringleaders to the compter. The
culprit, however, happened to be, like Twyford, a goldsmith, and was one of his suite. Twyford
resented his man being sent to prison, and for his pains got arrested himself.(665) It was
felt that the election would be hotly contested and might lead to disturbance. Besides the
customary precept issued by the mayor forbidding any to appear who were not specially summoned,(666)
the king took the precaution of sending John de Nevill, of Roby, to the Guildhall to see that
the election was properly conducted. In spite of all precautions, however, a disturbance took
place, and some of the rioters were afterwards bound over to keep the peace.(667) It is said
that Brembre himself secreted a body of men in the neighbourhood of the Guildhall, and that
when he found the election going against him, he signalled for them, and Twyford’s supporters
were compelled to flee for safety, and that thus the election was won.(668) Nothing of this
appears in the City’s Records, where Brembre’s re-election is entered in the manner of the
day.(669)

(M357)

In 1385 Brembre was again elected mayor, and continued in office until October, 1386, when
he was succeeded by his friend and ally, Nicholas Exton. This was the fourth and last time
Brembre was mayor. In the meantime, the Duke of Lancaster and his party had renewed their efforts
to effect the release of Northampton and of his fellow prisoners, More and Northbury, on the
understanding that they were not to come near the City, and Brembre again took the opinion
of the aldermen and commons severally as to the probable effect of the release of the prisoners.
This occurred in March, 1386, when it was unanimously resolved that danger would result to
the city if Northampton was allowed to come within 100 miles of it.(670) The resolution caused
much annoyance to the duke, who characterised it as unreasonable and outrageous, and led to
some heated correspondence.(671) It had, however, the desired effect of at least postponing
the release of the prisoners.(672)

(M358)

A few months after Exton had taken Brembre’s place as mayor (Oct., 1386), the new mayor raised
a commotion by ordering a book called "Jubilee," which Northampton is supposed to have compiled—or
caused to be compiled for the better government of the City, to be publicly burnt in Guildhall
yard.(673) The cordwainers of London, staunch supporters of Northampton (the leader of the
riot which led to Northampton’s arrest in 1384 was a cordwainer), complained to parliament
of Exton. The book, said they, " comprised all the good articles pertaining to the good government
of the City," which Exton and all the aldermen had sworn to maintain for ever, and now he and
his accomplices had burnt it without consent of the commons, to the annihilation of many good
liberties, franchises, and customs of the City.(674) The book had already been subjected to
revision in June, 1384, when Brembre was mayor;(675) it was now utterly destroyed.

(M359)

In 1387 efforts were again made to secure Northampton’s release, and this time with success.
On the 17th April Exton reported to the Common Council that Lord Zouche was actually engaged
in canvassing the king for the release of Northampton and his allies. The Council thereupon
unanimously resolved to send a letter to Lord Zouche, on behalf of the entire commonalty of
the City, praying him to desist from his suit, and assuring him of their loyalty to the king
even unto death.(676) It also resolved to send a deputation on horseback to the king, who was
at "Esthamstede," to ask his favour for the City, and to beg of him not to annul the charters
which he had already given to the citizens, more especially as touching the release of the
prisoners in question.

(M360)

On the 4th May the Recorder, William Cheyne, reported to the Common Council assembled in the
upper chamber of the Guildhall the result of the interview with the king. The deputation had
been received most graciously, and the mayor had been particularly successful in his speech,
setting forth the dangers that would inevitably ensue, both to the king and to the city, if
pardon were granted to Northampton and his friends. The king had replied that he would take
good precautions for himself before he granted them their liberty;(677) and with this answer
the citizens had to be content. The answer was an evasive one, if it be true, as one authority
states, that on the 27th April—the day on which the mayor had informed the citizens of the
intervention of Lord Zouche—Northampton had received his pardon and been restored to his property.(678)
His friends remained still unsatisfied, and plagued the king for more favourable terms to such
a degree that Richard ordered (7 Oct.) proclamation to be made in the city against any further
entreaties being made to him on the subject.(679)

(M361)

Two days before the order for this proclamation, the king was informed by letter of the nature
of a fresh oath of allegiance(680) that had been taken by the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty
of the city. He was furthermore exhorted to give credence to what Nicholas Brembre might inform
him as to the state and government of the city, since there was no one better informed than
Brembre on the subject.

(M362)

To this the king sent a gracious reply.(681) He had learnt with much pleasure from Nicholas
Brembre of the allegiance of the citizens, which he trusted would continue, as he would soon
have good reason for paying a visit to the city in person. He had heard that the new sheriffs
were good and trusty men, and he expressed a hope that at the approaching election of a mayor
they would choose one of whom he could approve, otherwise he would decline to receive the mayor-elect
at his presentation. He not only forbade any further entreaties to be made to him touching
Northampton, More and Northbury, but commissioned enquiry to be made as to their property in
the city. He was especially gratified to learn that, in accordance with his request, they had
appointed Thomas Usk (the chief witness against Northampton) to the office of under-sheriff,
and promised that such appointment should not be drawn into precedent. The citizens were not
slow to take the hint about the election of a new mayor, and Exton was continued in office.(682)

(M363)

Great discontent had arisen meanwhile in the country at the lavish expenditure of the king,
without any apparent result in victories abroad, such as had been gained in the glorious days
of his predecessor. A cry for reform and retrenchment was raised, and found a champion in the
person of the Duke of Gloucester, the youngest of the king’s uncles. At his instigation, the
parliament which assembled on the 1st October, 1386, demanded the dismissal of the king’s ministers,
and read him a lesson on constitutional government which ended in a threat of deposition unless
the king should mend his ways. Richard was at the time only twenty-one years of age. In the
impetuosity of his youth he is recorded as having contemplated a dastardly attempt upon the
life of his uncle, whom he had grown to hate as the cause of all his difficulties. A plan was
laid, which is said to have received Brembre’s approbation, for beguiling the duke into the
city by an invitation to supper, and then and there making away with him, but the duke was
forewarned. The chronicler who records Brembre’s complicity in this nefarious design against
Gloucester’s life also relates that Exton, who was mayor, refused to have anything to do with
it.(683)

(M364) (M365) (M366)

Before the end of the session, parliament had appointed a commission, with Gloucester at its
head, to regulate the government of the country and the king’s household. This very naturally
excited the wrath of the hot-headed king, who immediately set to work to form a party in opposition
to the duke. In August of the next year (1387) he obtained a declaration from five of the justices
to the effect that the commission was illegal. On the 28th October he sent the Archbishop of
York and the Earl of Suffolk into the city to learn whether he could depend upon the support
of the citizens. The answer could not have been regarded as unfavourable, for, on the 10th
November, the king paid a personal visit to the city and was received with great ceremony.(684)
On the following day (11 Nov.) orders were given to the aldermen of the City to assemble the
men of their several wards, to see that they were suitably armed according to their rank and
estate, and to make a return of the same in due course.(685)

(M367)

On the 14th Gloucester formally charged the king’s five counsellors—the Archbishop of York,
the Duke of Ireland, the Earl of Suffolk, Chief Justice Tressilian and Nicholas Brembre, "the
false London knight," with treason.(686) The king retaliated by causing proclamation to be
made to the effect that he had taken these same individuals under his own protection, and that
no one should harm them save at his own peril. This protection was extended also to the king’s
uncle, the Duke of Gloucester, and the Earls of Arundel and Warwick, the impeaching parties.

(M368)

On the 28th the mayor and aldermen were summoned to proceed to Windsor forthwith, to consult
upon certain matters very weighty (certeines treschargeauntes matirs).(687) The City’s archives
contain no record of what took place at the interview, but it appears that the object of the
conference was to ascertain how many men-at-arms the city would be likely to furnish the king
at a crisis. The answer given by the mayor was not encouraging; the citizens were merchants
and craftsmen, and not soldiers, save for the defence of the city itself; and the mayor straightway
asked the king’s permission to resign his office.(688)

(M369) (M370)

Finding that he could not rely on any assistance from the Londoners—whom Walsingham describes
as fickle as a reed, siding at one time with the lords and at another time with the king(689)—Richard
was driven to temporise. He had already promised that in the next parliament his unfortunate
advisers should be called to account, but long before parliament met (3 Feb., 1388), four out
of the five culprits had made good their escape—at least for a time. Brembre alone was taken.(690)
He had anticipated the blow by making over all his property at home and abroad to certain parties
by deed, dated the 15th October, 1387, no doubt, upon a secret trust.(691)

(M371)

Notwithstanding the evident coolness of the citizens towards him, Richard determined to leave
Windsor and spend Christmas at the Tower. He would be safer there, and less subject to the
dominating influence of the Duke of Gloucester and the Earls of Arundel, Nottingham, Warwick
and Derby, who objected to his shaking off the fetters of the commission. As soon as his intention
was known, these five lords—who, from having been associated in appealing against Richard’s
counsellors, were styled "appellant"—hastened to London, and drawing up their forces outside
the city’s walls, demanded admittance. After some little hesitation, the mayor determined to
admit them, defending his action to the king by declaring that they were his true liege men
and friends of the realm.(692)

(M372)

On the 18th January, 1388, the lords appeared at the Guildhall, accompanied by the Archbishop,
the Bishops of Ely, Hereford, Exeter, and others. The Archbishop absolved the citizens of their
oaths of allegiance, whilst the Bishop of Ely, the lord treasurer, deprecated any remarks made
to the disparagement of the lords. The lords and the bishops had been indicted on an iniquitous
charge, and there were some among the citizens who had been similarly indicted, but whether
justly or unjustly he (the bishop) could not say. That would be decided by parliament. In the
meantime they were ready to assist in settling the trade disputes in the city, for it was absurd
for one body of the citizens to attempt to exterminate another. The citizens, however, showed
no desire to accept the proffered mediation.(693)

(M373)

When parliament met (3 Feb.), a formidable indictment of thirty-nine charges was laid against
the king’s late advisers, of whom Brembre alone appeared. On the 17th February, he was brought
up by the constable of the Tower, and was called on to answer off-hand the several charges
of treason alleged against him. He prayed for time to take counsel’s advice. This being refused,
he claimed to support his cause by wager of battle, and immediately the whole company of lords,
knights, esquires, and commons, flung down their gages so thick, we are told, that they "seemed
like snow on a winter’s day."(694) But the lords declared that wager by battle did not lie
in such a case. When the trial was resumed on the following day, so much opposition arose between
the king, who spoke strongly in Brembre’s favour, and the lords, that it was decided to leave
the question of the prisoner’s guilt or innocence to a commission of lords, who, to the surprise
and annoyance of the majority of the nobles, brought in a verdict of not guilty. Brembre was
not to be allowed thus to escape. The lords sent for two representatives of the various crafts
of the city to depose as to Brembre’s guilt; but even so, the lords failed to get any definite
verdict. At last they sent for the mayor, recorder, and some of the aldermen (seniores) to
learn what they had to say about the accused.

(M374)

One would have thought that with Nicholas Exton, his old friend and ally, to speak up for him,
Brembre’s life would now at least be saved, even if he were not altogether acquitted. It was
not so, however. The mayor and aldermen were asked as to their opinion (not as to their knowledge),
whether Brembre was cognisant of certain matters, and they gave it as their opinion that Brembre
was more likely to have been cognisant of them than not. Turning then to the Recorder, the
lords asked him how stood the law in such a case? To which he replied, that a man who knew
such things as were laid to Brembre’s charge, and knowing them failed to reveal them, deserved
death. On such evidence as this, Brembre was convicted on the 20th February, and condemned
to be executed.(695) He was drawn on a hurdle through the city to Tyburn, showing himself very
penitent and earnestly desiring all persons to pray for him. At the last moment he confessed
that his conduct towards Northampton had been vile and wicked. Whilst craving pardon of Northampton’s
son "he was suddenly turned off, and the executioner cutting his throat, he died."(696)

(M375)

If we are to believe all that Walsingham records of Brembre, the character and conduct of the
city alderman and ex-mayor was bad indeed. Besides conniving at the plot laid against Gloucester’s
life, which involved the grossest breach of hospitality, he is recorded as having lain in wait
with an armed force at the Mews near Charing Cross, to intercept and massacre the lords on
their way to Westminster, to effect an arrangement with the king, as well as having entertained
the idea of cutting the throats of a number of his fellow-citizens, and placing himself at
the head of the government of the city, the name of which he proposed changing to that of "Little
Troy."(697)

(M376)

Of Brembre’s associates, Tressilian was captured during the trial, torn from the Sanctuary
at Westminster, and hanged on the 19th. Another to share the same fate was Thomas Uske, who
had been one of the chief witnesses against Northampton. He was sentenced to death by parliament
on the 4th March, and died asseverating to the last that he had done Northampton no injury,
but that every word he had deposed against him the year before was absolutely true.(698)

(M377)

The lords appellant, who were now complete masters of the situation, insisted upon the proceedings
of this "merciless" parliament, as its opponents called it, being ratified by oath administered
to prelates, knights, and nobles of the realm, as well as to the mayor, aldermen, and chief
burgesses of every town. On the 4th June—the day parliament rose—a writ was issued in Richard’s
name, enjoining the administration of this oath to those aldermen and citizens of London who
had not been present in parliament when the oath was administered there.(699)

(M378)

In the meantime the continued jealousy existing among the city guilds—the Mercers, Goldsmiths,
Drapers, and others, objecting to Fishmongers and Vintners taking any part in the government
of the city on the ground that they were victuallers, and as such forbidden by an ordinance
passed when Northampton was mayor to hold any municipal office(700)—had led parliament (14
May) to proclaim free trade throughout the kingdom.(701) A party in the city tried to get parliament
to remove Exton from the mayoralty on the ground of his having connived at the curtailment
of the City’s liberties and franchises. The attempt, however, failed, and he remained in office
until succeeded by Nicholas Twyford (Oct., 1388).(702) Although Twyford belonged to the party
of Northampton as distinguished from that of Brembre and Exton, his election raised little
or no opposition, such as had been anticipated. When he went out of office in October, 1389,
however, party strife in the city again showed itself. The majority of the citizens voted William
Venour, a grocer, into the mayoralty, but the choice was strongly opposed by the Goldsmiths,
the Mercers, and the Drapers, who ran another candidate, one of their own body, Adam Bamme,
a goldsmith.(703)

(M379)

Some months before the close of Twyford’s mayoralty, Richard had succeeded in gaining his independence
(May, 1389), which he was induced by Lancaster, on his return after a prolonged absence abroad,
to exercise at length in favour of Northampton, by permitting him once more to return to London,
although only as a stranger.(704) This was in July. In December, letters patent granting him
a free pardon were issued, containing no such restriction.(705) His re-appearance in the streets
of the city revived the old party spirit, and Adam Bamme, who had succeeded Venour in the mayoralty,
found it expedient to forbid all discussion of the rights and the wrongs of the several parties
of Northampton and Brembre on pain of imprisonment.(706) Four more years elapsed before Northampton
was re-instated in the freedom of the city.(707)

(M380)

For some years Richard governed not unwisely. In 1392, however, he quarrelled with the city.
Early in that year he called upon every inhabitant, whose property for the last three years
was worth £40 in land or rent, to take upon himself the honour of knighthood. The sheriffs,
Henry Vanner and John Shadworth, made a return that all tenements and rents in the city were
held of the king in capite as fee burgage at a fee farm (ad feodi firmam); that by reason of
the value of tenements varying from time to time, and many of them requiring repair from damage
by fire and tempest, their true annual value could not be ascertained, and that, therefore,
it was impossible to make a return of those who possessed £40 of land or rent as desired.(708)

(M381)

This answer was anything but agreeable to the king. But he had other cause just now for being
offended with the city. Being in want of money, he had offered a valuable jewel to the citizens
as security for a loan, and the citizens had excused themselves on the plea that they were
not so well off as they used to be, since foreigners had been allowed to enjoy the same privileges
in the city as themselves. Having failed in this quarter, the king had resorted to a Lombard,
who soon was able to accommodate him; but when the king learnt on enquiry that the money so
obtained had been advanced to the Lombard merchant by the very citizens who had refused to
lend it to the king himself, his anger knew no bounds,(709) and he summoned John Hende, the
mayor, the sheriffs, the aldermen, and twenty-four of the chief citizens(710) of the City to
attend him in June, at Nottingham. They accordingly set out on their journey on the 19th June,
and arrived in Nottingham on the 23rd; the government of the city being left in the meanwhile
in the hands of William Staundon. On the 25th they appeared before the lords of the council,
when the chancellor rated them roundly for paying so little attention to the king’s writ—the
writ touching knighthood—and complained of the defective manner in which the city was governed.(711)

(M382)

He thereupon dismissed the mayor from office, committing him to Windsor Castle. The sheriffs
were likewise dismissed, one being sent to Odyham Castle, and the other to the Castle of Wallingford.
The rest of the citizens were ordered to return home.(712)

(M383)

At nine o’clock in the morning of the 1st July, Sir Edward Dalyngrigge appeared in the Guildhall,
and there, before an immense assembly of the commons, read the king’s commissions appointing
him warden of the city and the king’s escheator. The deposed sheriffs were succeeded by Gilbert
Maghfeld, or Maunfeld, and Thomas Newton, who remained in office, by the king’s appointment,(713)
until the end of the year, when they were re-elected, the one by the warden and the other by
the citizens.(714) Dalyngrigge was soon afterwards succeeded in the office of warden by Sir
Baldwin de Radyngton.(715)

(M384)

By way of inflicting further punishment upon the citizens, Richard had already removed the
King’s Bench and Exchequer from London to York;(716) but the removal proved so much more prejudicial
to the nation at large than to the City of London that the courts were soon brought back.(717)
He would even have waged open war on them had he dared.(718) Instead of proceeding to this
extremity, he summoned the aldermen and 400 commoners to Windsor(719) and fined the City £100,000.
This was in July (1392). In August the king notified his intention of passing through the city
on his way from Shene to Westminster. The citizens embraced the opportunity of giving him a
magnificent reception, which the king acknowledged in the following month by restoring to them
their liberties and setting free their late mayor and sheriffs.(720) The fine of £100,000 recently
imposed, as well as other moneys which the king considered to be due to him from the city,
were also remitted.(721)

(M385)

Once more restored to their liberties, the citizens in the following year (1393), with the
assent of parliament, effected a reform in the internal government of the city which the increasing
population had rendered necessary. The Ward of Farringdon Within and Without had increased
so much in wealth and population that it was deemed advisable to divide it into two parts,
each part having its own alderman. Accordingly, in the following March (1394), Drew Barantyn
was elected Alderman of Farringdon Within, whilst John Fraunceys was elected for Farringdon
Without. A more important reform effected at the same time was the appointment of aldermen
for life instead of for a year only.(722)

(M386)

In the following year (1394) the queen—Anne of Bohemia—died. She had always shown a friendly
disposition towards the city, and it was mainly owing to her intercession that Richard had
restored its liberties.(723) Her death removed one good influence about Richard, and marks
a change of policy or of character.(724) His second marriage in 1396 did not improve matters.
In that year the mayor, Adam Bamme, died in office, and instead of allowing the citizens freely
to elect a successor, he thrust upon them Richard Whitington.(725) He arrested the Duke of
Gloucester and the Earls of Warwick and Arundel, and otherwise behaved so outrageously as to
raise doubts as to his sanity. He gave out that he was afraid to appear in public for fear
of the Londoners; but this was only a ruse for the purpose of raising money.(726) Like Edward
II, he borrowed money from anybody and everybody, and often resorted to unconstitutional measures
to fill his purse. He made the nobles and his wealthier subjects sign blank cheques for him
to fill up at his pleasure.(727) These cheques, or "charters" as they were called, were afterwards
burnt by order of his successor on the throne.

(M387)

A crisis was fast approaching. The Duke of Hereford, whom the king had banished, and who, on
the death of his father "time honoured Lancaster," succeeded to the title early in 1399, was
prevailed upon to return to England and strike a blow for the recovery of his inheritance which
Richard had seized. Richard, as if infatuated, took this inopportune moment to sail to Ireland.
Before setting out he made a last bid for the favour of the citizens by again granting them
permission to rule the fish trade according to ancient custom.(728) It was too late; they had
already resolved to throw in their lot with Henry of Lancaster.

As soon as Henry had landed at Ravenspur (4th July) a special messenger was despatched to the
city with the news. The mayor was in bed, but he hurriedly rose and took steps to proclaim
Henry’s arrival in England. "Let us apparel ourselves and go and receive the Duke of Lancaster,
since we agreed to send for him," was the resolution of those to whom the mayor conveyed the
first tidings; and accordingly Drew Barentyn, who had succeeded Whitington in October, 1398,
and 500 other citizens, took horse to meet the duke, whom they escorted to the city. The day
that Henry entered the city was kept as a holiday, "as though it had been the day for the celebration
of Easter."

(M388)

When Richard heard of Henry’s landing he hurried back from Ireland. He was met by the duke
with a large force, which comprised 1,200 Londoners, fully armed and horsed.(729) Finding resistance
hopeless, the king made submission, craving only that he might be protected from the Londoners,
who, he was convinced, bore him no good will. He was, in consequence, secretly conveyed to
the Tower under cover of night. Articles were drawn up accusing him of misgovernment, and publicly
read in the Guildhall. Four of his advisers and supporters, whose names he gave up, hoping
to gain favour for himself thereby, were executed at a fishmonger’s stall in Cheapside. Sentence
of deposition was passed against him, and Lancaster proclaimed king in his stead under the
title of King Henry IV.

CHAPTER X.

(M389)

The sentence passed on the late king proved his death warrant; his haughty spirit broke down,
and he died at Pontefract the following year. According to Henry’s account he died of wilful
starvation. There were many, however, who believed him to have been put to death by Henry’s
orders; whilst others, on the contrary, refused to believe his death had actually taken place
at all, notwithstanding the fact of the corpse having been purposely exposed to public view
throughout its journey from Pontefract to London.(730) This belief that Richard was still alive
was fostered by many, and, among others, by William Serle. He had been at one time the late
king’s chamberlain, and he kept up the delusion of Richard being still in the land of the living,
by exhibiting the late king’s signet, which had come into his possession. Serle was eventually
arrested in the north of England and brought to London, to be executed at Tyburn.(731)

(M390)

Sixteen years later (1416), a certain Thomas Warde, called "Trumpyngtone," personated the late
king, and a scheme was laid for placing him on the throne with the aid of Sigismund, king of
the Romans Sigismund, however, refused to have anything to do with the plot, which was hatched
within the city’s liberties by Benedict Wolman and Thomas Bekering. The conspiracy having been
discovered, its authors were thrown into prison. One died before trial, the other paid the
penalty for his rashness with his head.(732) In August, 1420, long after Trumpington was dead,
two others, Thomas Cobold and William Bryan, endeavoured still to keep up the delusion in the
city. The mayor, Whitington, himself ordered their arrest. Bryan had time to escape from the
house of William Norton, a barber given to Lollardry, where he and his fellow conspirator were
lodged. Cobold tried to hide himself, but was discovered cunningly concealed in the house,
and taken before the mayor and aldermen. Being questioned as to the identity of Trumpington
and the late king, he gave an evasive reply, adding, that the question of identity had become
immaterial since Trumpington had been dead some time. Cobold was thought to be too dangerous
a man to be allowed at large, so he was committed to prison.(733)

(M391)

In the meantime Wycliffe had died (1384), and Lollardry had become only another name for general
discontentment. The clergy made strenuous efforts to suppress the Lollards. Pope Boniface had
invoked the assistance of the late king (1395) to destroy these "tares" (lolium aridum) that
had sprung up amidst the wheat which remained constant to church and king, and called upon
the mayor and commonalty of the city to use their interest with Richard to the same end.(734)
Besides seeking the support of the commonalty against the powerful nobles, the new king sought
the support of the church, and he had not been long on the throne before he issued commissions
for search to be made in the city for Lollards, and for the arrest of all preachers found sowing
the pestilential seed of Lollardry (semen pestiferum lollardrie).(735) Early in 1401 a price
was put upon the head of the captain and leader of the sect, Sir John Oldcastle, otherwise
known as Lord Cobham. Public proclamation was made in the city, that any one giving information
which should lead to his arrest should be rewarded with 500 marks; any one actually arresting
or causing him to be arrested should receive double that amount, whilst the citizens and burgesses
of any city or borough who should take and produce him before the king, should be for ever
quit of all taxes, talliages, tenths, fifteenths and other assessments.(736) Not only were
conventicles forbidden, but no one was allowed to visit the ordinary churches after nine o’clock
at night or before five o’clock in the morning.(737)

(M392)

Still the clergy were not satisfied. The ecclesiastical courts could condemn men as heretics,
but they had no power to burn them. Accordingly, a statute was passed this year (1401), known
as the statute of heresy (de hæretico comburendo), authorising the ecclesiastical courts to
hand over to the civil powers any heretic refusing to recant, or relapsing after recantation,
so that he might pay the penalty of being publicly burnt before the people.(738) It was the
first English law passed for the suppression of religious opinion, and its first victim is
said to have been one William Sautre, formerly a parish priest of Norfolk.(739)

(M393)

Henry had other difficulties to face besides opposition from the nobles. France had refused
to acknowledge his title to the crown, and demanded the restoration of Richard’s widow, a mere
child of eleven. The Scots(740) and the Welsh were on the point of engaging in open insurrection.
Invasion was imminent; the exchequer was empty, and the Londoners appealed to could offer no
more than a paltry loan of 4,000 marks.(741)

(M394)

As time went on, Henry had to try new methods for raising money. The parliament which met at
the opening of 1404, granted the king a 1s. in the pound on all lands, tenements and rents,
besides 20s. for every knight’s fee. The money so raised was not, however, to be at the disposal
of the king’s own ministers, but was to be placed in the hands of four officials to be known
as treasurers of war (Guerrarum Thesaurarii). The names of the treasurers elected for the purpose
are given as John Owdeby, clerk, John Hadley, Thomas Knolles, and Richard Merlawe, citizens
of London.(742) Three of these were citizens of note. Hadley had already served as mayor in
1393, Knolles had filled the same office in 1399, and was re-elected in 1410, whilst Merlawe
was destined to attain that honour both in 1409 and 1417.

(M395)

It was during Merlawe’s first mayoralty that the citizens advanced to the king the sum of 7,000
marks,(743) to enable him to complete the reduction of Wales, which his son, the Prince of
Wales, had already nearly accomplished. In 1412 they advanced a further sum of 10,000 marks.(744)
At the beginning of that year a commission was addressed by Henry to Robert Chichele, the mayor,
brother of the archbishop of the same name, to the sheriffs of the city, to Richard Whitington
and Thomas Knolles, the late mayor, instructing them to make a return of the amount of land
and tenements held in the city and suburbs, with the view of levying 6s. 8d. on every £20 annual
rent by virtue of an act passed by the late parliament.(745) A return was made to the effect
that it was very difficult to discover the true value of lands and tenements in the city and
suburbs, owing to absence of tenants and dilapidations by fire and water, but that they had
caused enquiry to be made, and the names of men, women and other persons (hominum, feminarum
et aliarum personarum) mentioned in the commission were forwarded by them in the following
a, b, c (in sequenti a, b, c). What lands and tenements the "men, women and other persons"
had elsewhere they had no means of discovering.(746) The schedule, or "a, b, c," is not entered
in the City Letter Book, but is to be found among the Exchequer Rolls, preserved at Her Majesty’s
Public Record(747) Office. The gross rental was returned at £4,220, and the sum paid into the
exchequer at 6s. 8d. for every £20, under the provisions of the act amounted to £70 6s. 8d.
The mayor and commonalty of the city are credited as possessing lands, tenements and rents
of an annual value of no more than £150 9s. 11d., whilst the Bridge House Estate was returned
at £148 15s. 3d. Of the livery companies, the Goldsmiths appear as the owners of the largest
property, their rental of city property amounting to £46 10s. 1/2d., the Merchant Tailors following
them closely with £44 3s. 7d. The Mercers had but a rental of £13 18s. 4d. whilst the Skinners
had £18 12s. 8d. Robert Chichele, the mayor, was already a rich man, with an annual rental
of £42 19s. 2d., derived from city property, or nearly double the amount (£25) with which Richard
Whitington was credited.

(M396)

Whitington had already three times occupied the mayoralty chair; once (in 1396) at the word
of a king, and twice (in 1397 and 1406) at the will of his fellow citizens. On the occasion
of his third election a solemn mass was for the first time introduced into the proceedings,
the mayor, aldermen and a large body of commoners attending the service at the Guildhall Chapel,
before proceeding to the election.(748) The custom which then sprang up continues in a modified
form to this day, the election of a mayor being always preceded by divine service. Its origin
may perhaps be ascribed in some measure to the spirit of Lollardry which, in its best sense,
found much favour with the citizens.

The enormous wealth which he succeeded in amassing was bestowed in promoting the cause of education,
and in relieving the sufferings of the poor and afflicted. He built a handsome library in the
house of the Grey Friars and also the Church of Saint Michael in the "Riole." He is credited
by some writers with having purchased and presented to the corporation the advowson of the
Church of St. Peter upon Cornhill. But this is probably a mistake arising from the fact of
a license in mortmain having been granted by Henry IV to Richard Whitington, John Hende, and
others, to convey the manor of Leadenhall, together with the advowsons of the several churches
of Saint Peter upon Cornhill and Saint Margaret Patyns, held of the king in free burgage, to
the mayor and commonalty of the City of London and their successors.(749)

(M397)

On the accession of Henry V, Archbishop Arundel, whom Walsingham describes as the most eminent
bulwark and indomitable supporter of the church,(750) renewed his attack on the Lollards, and
endeavoured to serve Oldcastle with a citation. Failing to accomplish this he caused him to
be arrested. The bold defence made by the so-called heretic, when before his judges, gained
additional weight from the reputation he enjoyed for high moral character. Nevertheless he
was adjudged guilty of the charges brought against him. A formal sentence of excommunication
was passed, and he was remitted to the Tower for forty days in the hope that at the expiration
of that time he might be found willing to retract. This, however, was not to be.

(M398)

He contrived to make his escape from prison,(751) and shortly afterwards appeared at the head
of a number of followers in St. Giles’s Fields. Great disappointment was felt at not receiving
the assistance that had been expected from city servants and apprentices. According to Walsingham,
no less than 5,000 men, comprising masters as well as servants, from the city, were prepared
to join the insurgents, had not the king taken precautions to secure the gates. As soon as
it was discovered that the young king had made ample preparations to meet attack, the Lollards
took to flight. Many, however, failed to make good their escape, and nearly forty paid the
penalty of their rashness with their lives.(752) Walsingham was probably misinformed as to
the number of the persons who were prepared to assist the Lollards. The fact is that, to the
respectable City burgess, Lollardism was a matter of less moment than was the scandalous life
led by the chantry priest and other ministers of religion, and this the civic authorities were
determined to rectify as far as in them lay. Between the years 1400 and 1440, some sixty clerks
in holy orders were taken in adultery and clapt into prison by ward beadles.(753) Nevertheless
the clergy, and more especially the chantry priest, continued to live a life of luxury and
sloth, oftentimes spending the day in dicing, card playing, cock fighting and frequenting taverns.

(M399)

The recent abortive attempt of Oldcastle gave rise to another Statute against the Lollards,(754)
by which the secular power, no longer content with merely carrying into execution the sentences
pronounced by ecclesiastical courts, undertook, where necessary, the initiative against heretics.
Archbishop Arundel, the determined enemy of the Lollards, had had no hand in framing this Statute—the
last that was enacted against them.(755) He had died a few months before parliament met, and
had been succeeded by Henry Chichele.

(M400)

Early in the following year (1415) the king made an offer of pardon to Oldcastle, who was still
at large, if he would come in and make submission before Easter.(756) Instead of accepting
so generous an offer, Oldcastle busied himself in preparing for another rising to take place
as soon as the king should have set sail on his meditated expedition to France. Lollard manifestoes
again appeared on the doors of the London churches; whilst Oldcastle himself scoured the country
for recruits, to serve under a banner on which the most sacred emblems of the church were depicted.(757)

(M401)

In August (1415) another Lollard, John Cleydone by name, a currier by trade, was tried in St.
Paul’s Church before the new Archbishop and others, the civic authorities having taken the
initiative according to the provisions of the recent Statute, and arrested him on suspicion
of being a heretic. The mayor himself was a witness at the trial, and testified as to the nature
of certain books found in Cleydon’s possession; they were "the worst and the most perverse
that ever he did read or see." Walsingham, who styles Cleydon "an inveterate Lollard" (quidam
inveteratus Lollardus), adds, with his usual acerbity against the entire sect, that the accused
had gone so far as to make his own son a priest, and have Mass celebrated by him in his own
house on the occasion when his wife should have gone to church, after rising from childbed.(758)
Having been convicted of heresy by the ecclesiastical court, the prisoner was again delivered
over to the secular authorities for punishment.(759) Both he and his books were burnt.(760)

(M402)

Two years later Oldcastle himself was captured in Wales and brought to London. At his trial
he publicly declared his belief that Richard II was still alive; he was even fanatic enough
to believe that he himself would soon rise again from the dead.(761) He was sentenced to be
hanged and burnt on the gallows, a sentence which was carried out in St. Giles’s Fields.(762)
Lollardry continued to exist, especially in London and the towns, for some years, but it ceased
to have any historical or political significance.(763)

(M403)

Henry V was resolved to maintain not only the old religion of the days of Edward III, but also
the old foreign policy, and in 1414 he commenced making preparations for renewing the claim
of his great-grandfather to the crown of France. In 1415 this claim was formally made, and
Henry gathered his forces together at Southampton. On the 10th March he informed the civic
authorities of his intention of crossing over to France to enforce his claim and of his need
of money. On the 14th a brilliant assembly, comprising the king’s two brothers, John, Duke
of Bedford, and Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, Edward, Duke of York, the Archbishop of Canterbury,
the Bishop of Winchester, and others, met at the Guildhall to consider the matter.

(M404)

A question arose as to order of precedence, and it was arranged that the mayor, as the king’s
representative in the City, should occupy the centre seat, having the Primate and the Bishop
of Winchester on his right, and the Duke of York and the king’s brothers on his left.(764)
This question having been settled, the meeting, we presume, got to business; but what took
place is not recorded in the City’s archives. We know, however, that in June the king pledged
his jewels to the City for a loan of 10,000 marks,(765) and that on the 1st August—just as
he was preparing to set sail—he raised a further loan of 10,000 marks on the security of the
customs.(766)

(M405)

On the 15th June the king, who was then on his way to the coast, took solemn leave of the civic
authorities, who had accompanied him to Blackheath. He bade them go home and keep well his
"chamber" during his absence abroad, giving them his blessing and saying "Cryste save London."(767)
Arriving at Southampton, he there discovered a conspiracy to place the young Earl of March,
the legitimate heir of Edward III, on the throne, as soon as he himself should have set sail.
The traitors were seized and executed, and the City lost no time in sending the king a letter
congratulating him upon his discovery of the plot.(768)

(M406)

A few days later (12th August) he sailed for France and landed near Harfleur, to which town
he laid siege. It offered, however, a stubborn defence, and it was not until the 18th September
that the town surrendered. On the 22nd Henry sent a long account of the siege and capture to
the mayor and citizens of London, bidding them render humble thanks to Almighty God for this
mercy, and expressing a hope of further success in the near future.(769)

(M407) (M408)

Early in October the king caused proclamation to be made in the City, that all and singular
knights, esquires and valets who were willing to go with him to Normandy, should present themselves
to his uncle Henry, Bishop of Winchester and Treasurer of England, who would pay them their
wages. By the same proclamation merchants, victuallers and handicraft-men were invited to take
up their residence in the recently captured town of Harfleur, where houses would be assigned
to them, and where they should enjoy the same privileges and franchises to which they had always
been accustomed.(770)

(M409) (M410)

The battle of Agincourt was fought on the 25th October, and news of the joyous victory arrived
in England on or before the 28th, on which day—the Feast of St. Simon and St. Jude—Nicholas
Wotton, the recently elected mayor, was sworn into office at the Guildhall according to custom.
On the following day, therefore, the mayor, aldermen and a large number of the commonalty made
a solemn pilgrimage on foot to Westminster, where they first made devout thanksgiving for the
victory that had been won, and then proceeded to present the new mayor before the Barons of
the Exchequer. Care is taken in the City records to explain that the procession went on this
occasion on foot, simply and solely for the purpose of marking their humble thanks to the Almighty
and his Saints, and more especially to Edward the Confessor, who lay interred at Westminster,
for the joyful news which so unexpectedly had arrived. The journey on foot was not to be drawn
into precedent when others succeeded to the mayoralty, nor supplant the riding in state which
had been customary on such occasions.(771) The reception given to the king by the Londoners
on his return from France, was of so brilliant and varied a character, that one chronicler
declares that a description of it would require a special treatise.(772) On the 16th November
he landed at Dover and proceeded towards London. On Saturday, the 23rd, the mayor and aldermen
and all the companies rode forth in their liveries to meet the king and conduct him and his
train of French prisoners through the City to Westminster. On Sunday morning a deputation from
the City waited upon Henry and presented him with the sum of £1,000 and two basons of gold
worth half that sum.(773)

(M411)

During the next eighteen months succeeding the battle of Agincourt, Henry devoted himself to
making preparations at home for renewing active military operations. He had intended at midsummer,
1416, to lead an expedition in person to the relief of Harfleur, but the command was subsequently
delegated to his brother, the Duke of Bedford. Proclamation was publicly made in the city by
order of the king, dated the 28th May, that all and singular knights, esquires and valets holding
any fief or annuity from the king should proceed to Southampton by the 20th June, armed each
according to his estate, for the purpose of joining the expedition.(774) In 1417 France was
rendered weak by factions, and Henry seized the opportunity for another attack. On the 1st
February he issued his writ to the sheriffs of London for a return to be made of the number
of men-at-arms and archers the City knights could furnish.(775) In March the mayor, Henry Barton,
was made a commissioner for victualling the navy which was to rendezvous at Southampton.(776)

(M412)

In the same month the City advanced the king the sum of 5,000 marks,(777) and in the following
June a further sum was advanced by private subscription among the wealthier citizens on the
security of a Spanish sword, set in gold and precious stones, of the estimated value of £2,000.
The sword was pledged with the subscribers on the understanding that they would not dispose
of it before Michaelmas twelve-month.(778)

(M413) (M414)

On the 9th August the king addressed a letter to the mayor, sheriffs, aldermen and good folk
of the City of London, informing them of his safe arrival in Normandy and of his success in
making himself master of the castle of "Touque" without bloodshed.(779) To this the citizens
sent a dutiful reply on the 28th day of the same month, assuring the king of the peaceful condition
of the city. On the 2nd September an order went forth from the Common Council of the City that
each alderman should immediately instruct the constables of his ward to go their rounds and
warn all soldiers they might come across, to vacate the City and set out on the king’s service
before the end of the week on pain of imprisonment.(780) Success continued to attend Henry’s
arms. On the 5th September he was able to inform the citizens, by letter,(781) of the capture
of Caen, excepting only the citadel, and this was to be rendered to him by the 19th day of
the same month at the latest, unless relief should have previously arrived for the besieged
from the King of France, his son the Dauphin, or the Count of Armagnac, Constable of France.
The Duke of Clarence wrote a few days later to the citizens, notifying the extraordinary success
which had followed the king. So many towns and fortresses had been taken that the only fear
was that there were not sufficient men to keep guard over them.(782)

(M415) (M416)

In order to keep the English force in Normandy better provided with victuals, the Duke of Bedford,
who had been left behind as the king’s lieutenant, caused the Sheriffs of London to proclaim
that all persons willing and able to ship victuals to France for Henry’s use, might do so without
paying custom dues on their giving security that the victuals should be sent to Caen and not
elsewhere.(783) Bedford, who was learning how to rule a free people—a lesson which, had he
been allowed to practice in after years, might have saved the house of Lancaster from utter
destruction(784)—presided in the parliament, which met in November, 1417. On the 17th December
this parliament granted the king two fifteenths and two tenths. No time was lost in taking
measures for collecting these supplies, the king’s writ appointing commissioners for the City
of London being issued the day following.(785)

(M417)

In Paris matters were going on from bad to worse. Whilst the capital of France was at the mercy
of a mob, Henry proceeded to lay close siege to Rouen. Frequent proclamation was made in London
for reinforcements to join the king, either at Rouen or elsewhere in Normandy.(786) This was
in April, 1418, or thereabouts. On the 5th July, the Duke of Clarence informed Richard Merlawe,
the mayor, by letter, of the fall of Louviers, and of the expected surrender of Pont de l’Arche,(787)
from which latter place the duke wrote. On the 10th August Henry himself wrote to the citizens
informing them of his having sat down before Rouen and of the straits his forces were in for
lack of victuals and more especially of "drink." He begged them to send as many small vessels
as they could, laden with provisions, to Harfleur, whence they could make their way up the
Seine to Rouen.(788) In less than a month a reply was sent (8 Sept.) from Gravesend under the
seal of the mayoralty, informing Henry that the citizens had been busy brewing ale and beer
and purveying wine and other "vitaille," and that they had despatched thirty butts of sweet
wine—comprising ten of "Tyre," ten of "Romesey," and ten of "Malvesy"—and 1,000 pipes of ale
and beer. With these they had also sent 25,000 cups for the king’s "host" to drink out of.(789)
In the meantime, the besieged received no such relief from the pains of hunger and thirst,
and on the 19th January, 1419, they were compelled to surrender their ancient town.(790) The
war continued throughout the year (1419), all attempts at a reconciliation proving abortive.
Pointoise fell into Henry’s hands; and both Henry and the Duke of Clarence sent word of its
capture to London. The duke took the opportunity of asking that the freedom of the City might
be conferred on his servant, Roger Tillyngton, a skinner; but the citizens in acknowledging
the duke’s letter make no reference to his request.(791)

(M418)

On the 17th August the king wrote again to the mayor, aldermen and commons of the City, thanking
them for their "kynde and notable prone of an ayde," which they had granted of their own free
will, therein setting a good example to others, and prayed them to follow such directions as
the Duke of Bedford should give them respecting their proffered assistance. The bearer of this
letter having been taken prisoner at Crotoye, a duplicate copy of it was afterwards forwarded
from Trie le Chastel on the 12th September.(792)

(M419)

The murder of John, Duke of Burgundy, by a partisan of the Dauphin, which took place about
this time, induced Duke Philip to come to terms with England in the hope of avenging his father’s
death;(793) and the French king, finding further resistance hopeless, was content to make peace.
By the treaty of Troyes (20 May, 1420), the Dauphin was disinherited in favour of Henry, who
was formally recognised as the heir to the French crown, and who agreed to marry Catherine,
daughter of Charles VI.(794) The marriage took place on the 3rd June, and on the 14th a solemn
procession was made in London and a sermon preached at Paul’s Cross in honour of the event.(795)

(M420) (M421)

On the 12th July Henry addressed a letter from Mant to the corporation of London informing
them of his welfare. He had left Paris for Mant in order to relieve the town of Chartres, which
was being threatened by the Dauphin. The Duke of Burgundy had joined him and had proved himself
"a trusty, lovvng and faithful brother." The king’s expedition proved unnecessary, for the
Dauphin had raised the siege before his arrival and had gone into Touraine. To this letter
a reply was sent under the mayoralty seal on the 2nd August, congratulating Henry upon his
success, and assuring him that there was no city on earth more peaceful or better governed
than his City of London.(796)

(M422)

On the 26th January, 1421, the Duke of Gloucester, the Guardian of England in the king’s absence,
ordered the Sheriffs of London to announce that the queen’s coronation would take place at
Westminster on the third Sunday in Lent.(797) The king and queen landed at Dover with a small
retinue on the 1st February, and after a few days’ rest at Canterbury, entered the city of
London amid tokens of welcome and respect from the laity and clergy. They took up their abode
at the Tower, whence they were conducted on the day appointed for the coronation to Westminster
by the citizens on foot and on horseback.(798)

(M423)

Henry had not been at home six months before he again left England, never to return.(799) The
hopes that he entertained of reforming and governing his possessions in France, and his ambition
to have headed, sooner or later, a crusade which should have stayed the progress of the Ottoman
and have recovered the sepulchre of Christ, were not destined to be realised. He died at the
Bois de Vincennes, near Paris, on the last day of August, 1422, leaving a child nine months
old—the unhappy Henry of Windsor who succeeded to the throne as Henry VI. When the body of
the late king was brought over from France to be buried at Westminster, the citizens showed
it every token of respect in its passage through London. The streets of the city, as well as
of the borough of Southwark, were cleaned for the occasion. The mayor, sheriffs, recorder and
aldermen, accompanied by the chief burgesses, and clad in white gowns and hoods, went forth
to meet the remains of the king they loved so well, as far as St. George’s bar in Southwark,
and reverently conducted them to St. Paul’s Church, where the funeral obsequies were performed.
The next day they accompanied the corpse to Westminster, where further ceremonies took place.
Representatives of the various wards were told off to line the streets, the solemnity of the
occasion being marked by the burning of torches, whilst chaplains stood in the porches of the
various churches, clad in their richest copes, with thuribles in their hands, and chanted the
venite and incensed the royal remains as they passed. The livery companies provided amongst
them 211 torches, and to each torch-bearer the city chamberlain gave a gown and hood of white
material or "blanket" (de blanqueto), at the "cost of the commonalty." (800)

CHAPTER XI.

(M424)

At the death of Henry V the administration of affairs fell into the hands of his two brothers,
John, Duke of Bedford, and Humfrey, Duke of Gloucester. On the 29th September a writ was issued
from Windsor, in the name of the infant on whom the crown of England had devolved, summoning
four citizens of London to attend a parliament to be held at Westminster at Martinmas,(801)
and two days afterwards another was addressed to the sheriffs of London, enjoining them to
make proclamation for the keeping the king’s peace, and authorising them to arrest and imprison
rioters until the king and his council should determine upon their punishment.(802) The precise
wishes of the late king as to the respective parts which Bedford and Gloucester were to undertake
in the government of the realm are not clearly known, but it is generally thought that he intended
the former to govern France, whilst the latter was to act as his vicegerent in England. An
attempt to carry out the arrangement was doomed to failure.

As soon as parliament met (9 Nov.) it took into consideration the respective claims of the
two dukes. Bedford had already (26 Oct.) despatched a letter from Rouen, addressed to the civic
authorities, setting forth his right to the government of the realm, as elder brother of the
deceased sovereign and as the party most interested in the succession to the crown. Without
mentioning Gloucester by name, he warned the citizens against executing orders derogatory to
himself. He professed to do this, not from any ambitious designs of his own, but from a wish
to preserve intact the laws, usage and customs of the realm.(803) After some hesitation, parliament
resolved to appoint Bedford protector as soon as he should return from France, but that during
his absence Gloucester should act for him.(804)

(M425)

On the 8th February of the new year (1423), the sheriffs of London received orders to make
proclamation for all soldiers who were in the king’s pay to assemble at Winchelsea by the 1st
day of March, as an expedition was to set sail from that port for the purpose of defending
the town and castle of Crotoye. The business was pressing and necessitated a repetition of
the order to the sheriffs a fortnight later (22 Feb.).(805)

(M426)

On the 23rd February William Crowmere, the mayor, William Sevenoke, William Waldene, and John
Fray were appointed commissioners to enquire into cases of treason and felony within the city;
and two days later they found Sir John Mortimer, who was charged with a treasonable design
in favour of the Earl of March, guilty of having broken prison.(806) He was subsequently convicted
of treason both by lords and commons, and sentenced to death.

(M427)

On the 5th June (1423) the hearts of the citizens were gladdened with the news that they were
likely to be repaid some of the money they had advanced to the king’s grandfather. Orders were
given for all persons to whom Henry IV was indebted at the time of his decease, and who had
not yet received from his executors a moiety of the sums due, to send in their bills and tallies
to Sir John Pelham and John Leventhorp, two of the king’s executors, sitting at the Priory
of Saint Mary, Southwark, by the Monday next after Midsummer-day.(807) We can believe that
few orders ever met with readier response from the inhabitants of the city.

(M428)

At home as well as abroad Gloucester soon made enemies; among them was his own uncle, the Chancellor,
Henry Beaufort, Bishop of Winchester, a wealthy and ambitious prelate. During Gloucester’s
absence on the continent, whither he had gone to recover the estates of his newly-married wife,
the ill-fated Jacqueline of Hainault, Beaufort garrisoned the Tower with creatures of his own.
When Gloucester returned mutual recriminations took place, and the mayor was ordered (29 Oct.,
1425) to prevent Beaufort entering the city. A riot ensued in which the citizens took the part
of the duke, and the bishop had to take refuge in Southwark. The quarrel was patched up for
awhile until Bedford, who was sent for, should arrive to act as arbitrator.(808) He arrived
in London on the 10th January, 1426. The citizens, who had more than once been in communication
with the duke(809) during his absence abroad, presented him with a pair of basins, silver-gilt,
containing 1,000 marks. The gift, however, does not appear to have been so graciously received
as it might have been, for a London alderman records that the donors, for all their liberality,
"hadde but lytylle thanke."(810)

(M429)

The two brothers had not met since the death of Henry V. After prolonged negotiations, a modus
vivendi between the parties was arrived at, and Gloucester and the bishop were induced to shake
hands. Beaufort left England soon afterwards with the Duke of Bedford, on the plea of making
a pilgrimage, and did not return until September, 1428, by which time he had been made a cardinal
and appointed papal legate in England. Notwithstanding his legatine authority being unacknowledged
by Gloucester and others, the citizens received him on his return "worthily and loyally," riding
out to meet him and escorting him into London.(811)

(M430)

Gloucester had always been a favourite with the Londoners, until his conduct to his Flemish
wife, whom he left behind on the continent to fight her own battles as best as she could, and
the undisguised attention he paid to Eleanor Cobham, a lady in his wife’s suite, whom he eventually
married, estranged their favour. In August, 1424, the Common Council had voted the duke a gift
of 500 marks; and two years later—viz., in April, 1426—the citizens raised a sum, variously
stated to have been £1,000 and 1,000 marks, for the benefit of his duchess.(812) The female
portion of the community were specially incensed against the duke, and a number of women went
the length of presenting themselves before parliament in 1427, with a letter complaining of
his behaviour towards his wife. In March of the next year (1428) the citizens themselves followed
suit, and drew the attention of parliament, through the mouth of John Symond, their Recorder,
to the wretched straits to which the duchess had been reduced, as witnessed her own letters.
They begged parliament to consider the best means for recovering for her the lands of Hainault,
Holland and Zeeland, which had always been places of sure refuge for the English merchant,
and the rulers of which had ever been friendly to the king of England. The citizens finally
avowed themselves ready to take upon themselves their share in any undertaking the lords and
commons of the realm might decide upon.(813)

(M431)

In the meantime matters had not gone well with the English in France. In July, 1427, the Earl
of Salisbury came over to London for reinforcements.(814) In September of the following year
he was able to inform the City of the success that had attended his recruited army.(815) He
was then within a short distance of Orleans, before which town he shortly afterwards met his
death. Bedford continued the siege, but the town held out until May, 1429, when it was relieved
by the Maid from the little village of Domremi, and the English army was compelled to retreat.

(M432)

Whilst Bedford was conducting the siege of Orleans, and Jeanne Darc was meditating how best
to relieve the town, the citizens of London were suffering from a severe dearth. At length
the Common Council resolved (22 July, 1429) to send agents abroad for the purpose of transmitting
all the corn they could lay their hands on to England. The assistance of Bedford, who had by
this time been compelled to raise the siege of Orleans, was invoked.(816)

(M433)

Bedford had recently been joined by Beaufort, who had become more than ever an object of hatred
to Gloucester, and had lost to a certain extent the goodwill of the nation by the acceptance
of a cardinal’s hat. He had set out on the 22nd June (1429), carrying with him a small force
which he was allowed to raise for the avowed object of prosecuting a Hussite crusade in Bohemia,
but which was eventually sent to France.(817) The question of his position in parliament and
the council, now that he was a cardinal, was decided by the parliament which met on the 22nd
September.

(M434)

Members of parliament representing the City of London had hitherto been allowed a certain amount
of cloth and fur trimming at the City’s expense, wherewith to dress themselves and their personal
attendants in a manner suitable to the position they held. Those who had from time to time
been elected members appear to have abused this privilege—where a yard had been given, they
had literally taken an ell—and it was now thought to be high time to take steps to check the
abuse in future. Accordingly it was ordained by the mayor and aldermen, on the 12th August
of this year (and the ordinance met with the approval of the commoners on the 29th day of the
same month), that for the future no alderman elected to attend parliament should take out of
the chamber or of the commonalty more than ten yards for gown and cloak, at 15s. the yard,
and 100s. for fur if the alderman had already served as mayor, otherwise he was to have no
more than five marks. Commoners were to be content with five yards of cloth and 33s. 4d. for
fur. Each alderman, moreover, was to be allowed eight yards of cloth at 28 pence a yard for
two personal attendants, and each commoner four yards of the same for one attendant, if the
parliament was sitting in London or the neighbourhood, and eight yards for two attendants if
parliament was sitting in some more remote place, "as was formerly ordained during the mayoralty
of John Michell" (1424-5).(818)

(M435)

The condition of France necessitated the early coronation of the young king, whose right to
the French crown had been established by the Treaty of Troyes. At his accession to the throne
of England Henry VI was but a child of nine months. He was now eight years old. Before he could
be crowned King of France, it was necessary that he should first be crowned King of England.
Proclamation was accordingly made that he would be crowned on the 6th November following, and
that all claims to services should be forthwith laid before the lord steward.(819) Gregory,
to whose chronicle we have had frequent occasion to refer, writing as an eye-witness, gives
a full account(820) of what took place at the ceremony of coronation in Westminster Abbey,
and of the banquet that followed; but omits to mention that the citizens put in their usual
claim, in accordance with the above proclamation, to serve the king at the banquet as butler.
That the claim was actually made we learn from other sources.(821) We also know that William
Estfeld, the recently-elected mayor, received the customary gold cup and ewer used on the occasion,
which he afterwards bequeathed to his grandson.(822)

(M436) (M437)

In April, 1430, the young king left England for France, and remained abroad for nearly two
years. On the 10th November he wrote to the mayor and citizens, urging them to advance him
the sum of 10,000 marks, as that sum might do him more ease and service at that particular
time than double the amount at another. The letter was dated from Rouen, where the court afterwards
established itself for a considerable time.(823) On Sunday, the 12th December, 1431, he made
his entry into Paris with great ceremony, and was duly crowned.(824)

(M438)

On his return to England early in the following year, he was met by John Welles, the mayor,
the aldermen, the sheriffs, and more than 12,000 citizens of London, who rode out on Thursday,
the 20th February, as far as Blackheath, and was there presented with the following address:—

    "Sovereign lord as welcome be ye to your noble Roialme of
    Englond, and in especial to your notable Cite London oþerwise
    called your Chambre, as ever was cristen prince to place or
    people, and of the good and gracioux achevyng of your Coronne of
    Fraunce, we thank hertlich our lord almyghty which of his endles
    mercy sende you grace in yoye and prosperite on us and all your
    other people long for to regne."

(M439)

After hearing the address the king rode to Deptford, where he was met by a procession of 120
rectors and curates of the city, in the richest copes, and 500 secular chaplains in the whitest
of surplices, with whom were a like number of monks bearing crosses, tapers and incense, and
chanting psalms and antiphons in grateful thanks for his safe return. Thence the royal cavalcade
passed through Southwark to the city, where pageants appeared at every turn. The fulsome adulation
bestowed upon a lad scarcely ten years of age was enough to turn his young brain. Passing through
Cornhill and Chepe, the procession eventually reached St. Paul’s. There the king dismounted,
and being met by the Archbishop of Canterbury and ten other bishops in their pontifical robes,
was led by them to the high altar. Prayers were said and the sacred relics kissed. The king
then remounted his horse and made his way to his palace of Westminster, the streets being hung
with tapestry and the houses thronged to their roofs with crowds of onlookers, and was there
allowed a brief day’s rest. On the following Saturday a deputation from the city, headed by
the mayor and aldermen, went to the palace and presented Henry with £1,000 of the purest gold,
in a gold casket, with these words:—

"Most cristen prince the good folk of youre notable Cite of London, otherwise cleped your Chambre,
besechen in her most lowely wise that they mowe be recomanded un to yor hynesse, ant þt can
like youre noble grace to resceyve this litell yefte yoven with as good will and lovyng hertes
as any yefte was yoven to eny erthly prince."

The king having graciously acknowledged the gift, the deputation returned to the city.(825)

(M440)

Beaufort, who had returned home in time for the coronation, had again set out for France with
the king, and Gloucester took advantage of their absence to renew his attack on his rival.
Letters of prœmunire were drawn up in anticipation of the cardinal’s return, and additional
offence was given by the seizure of the cardinal’s plate and jewels at Dover. On learning of
Gloucester’s schemes, Beaufort determined to give up a projected visit to Rome, and to return
home in time for the opening of parliament (12th May, 1432).(826) He desired to learn why he
had been thus "strangely demeened" contrary to his deserts. When parliament met and the cardinal
asked who were his accusers, Gloucester held his tongue, and the king expressed his confidence
in the cardinal’s loyalty. In the following year (1433) Bedford appeared before parliament
and announced that he had come home to defend himself against false accusations. He understood
that the recent losses that had occurred in France were attributed to his neglect. He desired
his accusers, of whom he shrewdly suspected Gloucester to be one, to stand forth and prove
their charges. Again there was silence, and the duke, like the cardinal, had to rest satisfied
with the king’s assurance of loyalty.(827)

(M441)

The finances of the country were at this time (1433) in the most deplorable condition. It was
necessary to exercise the strictest economy. Bedford was the first to set an example of self-denial
by offering to discharge the duties of counsellor at a reduced salary. Gloucester followed
his brother’s example. The archbishops, the cardinal, and the bishops of Lincoln and Ely agreed
to render their services without payment. Parliament showed its good will by voting a fifteenth
and tenth, but out of the sum thus realised £4,000 was to be applied to the relief of poor
towns. The amount of relief which fell to the share of the poorer wards of the City of London
was £76 15s. 6-1/4d., which was apportioned among eighteen wards. The largest sum allotted
was £20, which went to Cordwainer Street Ward, whilst Lime Street Ward received the magnificent
relief afforded by the odd farthing.(828) The mayor, sheriffs and aldermen were called upon
to attend in person before the chancellor, in April, 1434, to make oath that they would duly
observe a certain article (quendam articulum) which the late parliament had agreed to, but
what this article was does not appear in the City’s archives.(829)

(M442)

Bedford was prevailed upon to remain in England and undertake the office of chief counsellor,
but differences again arising between him and Gloucester, which the personal interference of
the young king could with difficulty calm, he again set sail for France (June, 1434). His career
was fast drawing to an end. Burgundy was intending to desert him as he knew full well, and
the knowledge accelerated his end. His death took place at Rouen on the 14th September of the
following year (1435).(830)

(M443)

With his death England’s supremacy in France began to decline, and Henry VI was to lose in
that country all or nearly all that had been gained by his doughty predecessor. The defection
of Burgundy was followed by the loss of Paris. The chief event of 1436 was the raising of the
siege of Calais, which had been invested by the Duke of Burgundy. On the 27th June the mayor
and aldermen of Calais, being anxious to get help from the government at home, and finding
that according to precedent they could only do so through the mediation of the City of London,
addressed a letter to the mayor and aldermen of London imploring them, as the head of "the
principal of all the cities of the realm of England," to move the king to send the requisite
aid.(831)

In answer to this appeal Henry Frowyk, the mayor, consulted the livery companies, and by their
advice sent a contingent to the relief of the town.(832) The king, too, had been very urgent
that the City should raise a force to oppose "the man who stiled himself Duke of Burgundy and
Count of Flanders," whilst he took pains to conciliate such Flemings as were living in the
city and were ready to take an oath of allegiance.(833) Gloucester had been appointed captain
of Calais for a term of nine years, but before he set sail for its relief the siege had been
raised by Edmund Beaufort, Count of Mortain.(834)

(M444)

An attempt was made in 1439 to bring about a peace, but it failed, and a new tax—a tax upon
aliens—had to be imposed for the purpose of raising money in addition to the usual supplies.
Every alien householder was called upon to pay sixteen pence, and every alien who was not a
householder sixpence, towards the expenses of the country.(835)

(M445)

The streets of the city have witnessed few sadder sights than the penance inflicted on Eleanor
Cobham, at one time the mistress, and afterwards—on the dissolution of his marriage with Jacqueline—the
wife of Gloucester. The new duchess was aware that in the event of the king’s death her husband
was next in succession to the throne, and was inclined to anticipate matters. It was a superstitious
age, and the duchess invoked the aid of witchcraft to accomplish her wishes. In 1441 her operations,
innocent as they were in themselves, however bad their intent, were discovered, and she was
condemned to do public penance followed by imprisonment for life. For three days the wretched
lady was made to walk the streets, taper in hand and bare-foot (it was November), in the sight
of all the citizens, who were forbidden to show her any respect, but, at the same time, were
ordered not to molest her.(836) The latter they were little likely to do. Nay! on each day
as she landed at the Temple, at the Swan or at Oueenhithe, the mayor and sheriffs went forth
to attend her, accompanied by members of the livery companies.(837) Yet, not a finger did her
husband raise in her defence! He either could not or would not save her.

(M446)

By charter, dated the 26th day of October, 1444, the king confirmed the mayor, recorder and
certain aldermen as justices of the peace, and, among other things, granted to the corporation
the soil of the Thames within the City’s liberties.(838) This grant was not made without some
little opposition from the inhabitants of the neighbouring county of Surrey.(839)

(M447)

The king was now under the influence of William de la Pole, Earl of Suffolk, by whose intervention
a truce with France had been concluded on the 28th May of this year (1444), to last until the
1st April, 1446. In order to strengthen the truce, a marriage was arranged between Henry and
Margaret of Anjou. The princess came over to England early in the following year, and was married
on the 22nd April (1445). The match was not altogether a popular one; nevertheless, when Margaret
passed through the city on her way to be crowned at Westminster, she was received "in the most
goodly wise, with alle the citezines on horseback ridyng ayenst hir to the Blackheth in blew
gownes and rede hodes."(840)

(M448)

The truce was renewed, and Suffolk increased in popularity. After the deaths of Gloucester
and Cardinal Beaufort, within a few weeks of each other, in 1447, he became the king’s chief
adviser, and continued to be so until the loss of the French provinces three years later (1450)
raised so much opposition against him that the king was compelled to order his banishment.
This was not thought a sufficient punishment by his enemies, and he was taken on the high seas
and brutally murdered (2 May). After his death an attack was made on his supporters. They mustered
on Blackheath 30,000 strong (1 June), and then awaited the king’s return from Leicester, where
parliament had been sitting. Henry on his arrival sent to learn the reason of the gathering,
and in reply received a long list of grievances which the rebels intended to amend.(841)  Notwithstanding
the boldness of this answer, the king had only to make proclamation that all his true and liege
subjects should "a-voyde the fylde," for the whole force to disperse in the course of one night.
The danger, indeed, seemed to be over. A week later, however, the royal force met a number
of the rebels near Sevenoaks, by whom it was put to rout. Encouraged by this success, the rebels
returned and took up their quarters in Southwark. The unhappy king had by this time retired
to Kenilworth, notwithstanding the offer made by the citizens of London to stand by him.(842)

(M449)

The city authorities had, in the meantime, taken steps to put the city into a state of defence.
A Common Council met on the 8th June, when it decided that an efficient guard should be placed
night and day upon all gates, wharves and lanes leading to the Thames. An enclosure recently
erected at "le Crane" on the riverside belonging to John Trevillian, was ordered to be abated.
Balistic machines (fundibula) of all kinds were to be collected on the wharves, whilst the
sale of weapons or armour or their removal out of the city was restricted. Lastly, it was agreed
to represent to the king the advisability of limiting the number of his nobles coming into
the city, owing to the scarcity of provisions.(843) On the 26th June the Common Council again
met, and it was then decided to send two mounted men to reconnoitre Cade’s position, and to
learn, if possible, his movements.(844) Three days later (29 June) orders were given for four
men to be selected from each ward to assist the aldermen in preserving the peace. Anyone refusing
to do his duty in keeping watch was to be sent to prison. In spite of all precautions, Cade
and his followers succeeded in gaining a footing in the city (3 July), their first action being
to sack the house of Philip Malpas.(845) Cade himself encouraged rather than restrained the
excesses of his men. "Now is Mortimer lord of the City," he cried as he struck with his sword
the old Roman mile-stone known as London stone.(846) It is clear that the rebels had friends
in the city, otherwise they would never have effected an entrance so easily—"They had othyr
men with hem as welle of London as of there owne party."(847) The matter was made the subject
of investigation by the Common Council. Evidence was given by Thomas Geffrey, a barber, to
the effect that on Friday, the 3rd July, the keys of the bridge had been given up, but by whom
he knew not. William Reynold also deposed that Richard Philip, a grocer, had told him that
unless the wardens of the bridge opened the gates, the Kentish captain threatened to set fire
to the bridge and the city, and that thereupon Thomas Godfrey, a "sporyour," clad in russet,
brought the keys and opened the gates.(848)

(M450)

On Saturday, the 4th of July, the rebels, who had retired for the night, returned to the city.
Robert Horne, alderman of Bridge Ward, who had rendered himself especially obnoxious to the
rebels, was made prisoner and sent to Newgate. Sir James Fiennes, the Lord Say, was brought
from the Tower to the Guildhall, where the rebels were holding mock trials on those who were
unfortunate enough to fall into their hands, and, after a hasty examination, was conveyed to
the Standard in Chepe and there executed. His head, together with those of two others who had
that day suffered a similar fate, was set up on London Bridge.

(M451)

By the next evening (Sunday) the citizens had managed to recover their presence of mind, and
sallied out at ten o’clock at night, under the leadership of Lord Scales and another, across
the bridge. Before they had arrived on the Southwark side of the river they were met by the
rebels, and a severe fight took place between the parties on the bridge itself, lasting until
eight o’clock the next morning. At last the rebels were defeated, and the city freed from their
presence. Offers of pardon were made and accepted, and the rebels dispersed. Cade, however,
continued to plunder and ravage the country, until a price having been put upon his head, he
was apprehended by the Sheriff of Kent,(849) and died the same night from injuries received
at his capture. His head was subsequently set up on London Bridge.

(M452)

The king had now been married some years, and no heir had appeared. Great uncertainty prevailed
as to the right of succession to the throne, and gave rise to much rivalry and mutual mistrust
between Richard, Duke of York, who now for the first time becomes a conspicuous figure on the
stage, and Edmund Beaufort, recently created Duke of Somerset. Both of them could claim to
be the king’s nearest kinsmen, both of them being descendants of Edward III, the one tracing
his descent, on his father’s side, through Edmund Langley, and on his mother’s side, through
Lionel, Duke of Clarence, whilst the other was the surviving representative of John of Gaunt.

(M453)

The king’s incapacity to govern without a strong minister at his back, as evinced by his conduct
during the recent outbreak, induced both of these nobles to throw up their appointments, the
one in Ireland and the other in France, and to hasten home. The Duke of York was the first
to reach England, and, in spite of measures which had been taken to intercept him, made his
way to London. He was anxious in the first place to clear himself of suspicion of having been
implicated in Cade’s rebellion,(850) and to this end sought and obtained an interview with
the king. Having satisfied Henry on this point, he next proceeded to demand the reform of certain
abuses in the government. A short session of parliament, which met on the 6th November, opened
with an altercation between the rival dukes. On the 1st December Somerset was placed under
arrest; and on the following day his lodgings at the Black Friars were broken into and pillaged.
An example was made of one of the men convicted of being concerned in the breaking into the
Black Friars, and he was beheaded at the Standard in Chepe. The Duke of York made a personal
visit to the city, and caused proclamation to be made of the heavy pains and penalties which
should follow any attempt at robbery. As a further demonstration against lawlessness, the king
himself rode through the city a few days later, accompanied by his lords in full panoply, the
route being kept by a line of armed citizens on either side of the way. Alderman Gregory, whose
chronicle affords us a vivid picture of contemporary events, and who was called upon to serve
the office of mayor of the city the following year, confesses that the procession on this occasion
would have been a gay and glorious sight, "if hit hadde ben in Fraunce, but not in Ingelonde,"
for it boded little good.(851)

The Duke of Somerset did not long remain in prison, for immediately after Christmas he was
appointed captain of Calais. In 1451 the disasters which followed the English arms in France,
when Calais was again threatened, were made an occasion for another attempt by York to crush
his rival. He openly avowed his determination to proceed against Somerset, and, joined by the
Earl of Devonshire and Lord Cobham, marched to London (Jan., 1452). Henry at once prepared
to march against his cousin. The duke had hoped that through the influence of his party within
the city, the gates would have been flung open on his approach. In this he was disappointed.
The majority of the citizens were still loyal to Henry, and by his orders entrance was denied
the duke, who thereupon withdrew to Dartford, whilst the king’s forces encamped at Blackheath.

(M454)

For a time civil war was avoided, the king promising that Somerset should be again committed
to custody until he should answer such charges as York should bring against him. The king,
however, failed to keep his word. Somerset was allowed to remain in power, and York was only
allowed his liberty after he had consented to swear public allegiance to the king in St. Paul’s
Church. Any stronger measures taken against him would probably have provoked disturbance in
the city.(852)

(M455)

Henry’s mind had never been strong, and in the following year (1453) it entirely gave way.
In October the queen bore him a son, after eight years of married life, but though the infant
was brought to his father, Henry gave no signs of recognising his presence. The illness of
the king, and the birth of an heir to the crown, were events which materially affected the
fortunes of the Duke of York. In November the civic authorities prepared for emergencies; every
citizen was to provide himself with armour, but he was strictly enjoined to be guarded in his
conversation, and not to provoke tumult by showing favour to this or that lord. Even a proposal
that the mayor and aldermen should pay a visit of respect to the Duke of York was rejected
as impolitic at the present juncture.(853)

(M456)

Notwithstanding liberal grants made by parliament for the defence of Calais, that town was
still in danger. On the 29th November, 1453, a letter was read before the Common Council of
the City, emanating from the Lord Welles and the Lord Ryvers, asking for assistance towards
putting Calais into a state of defence. Further consideration of the matter was adjourned until
the following 4th December. By the 7th day of the same month the Council had consulted the
commons, who had declared that owing to their numerous burdens and expenses they could contribute
nothing to that end.(854) This did not prevent a further application being made early in 1454,
for contributions towards the defence of Calais if that town were besieged.(855) Again the
commons were consulted, and again they pleaded the excessive burdens they were already called
upon to bear, and the losses they had sustained by seizure of their ships and merchandise by
the Duke of Burgundy, rendering them unable for the present to undertake any further charges
unless steps were taken for the recovery of their goods.(856) An answer to this effect was
accordingly delivered by the Common Sergeant on behalf of the citizens, who declared themselves
willing at the same time to bear their share with the rest of the realm.(857) An appeal made
in August of the same year (1454), for the sum of £1,200 for the same purpose, met with similar
failure.(858)

The plea of poverty was no idle one, if we may judge from the fact that when, in November of
this year, an assessment of half a fifteenth was made on the city wards, eleven out of twenty-five
wards were in default.(859) Between the years 1431 and 1451 the citizens had advanced large
sums of money to the king, of which more than £3,000 remained in the latter year due to the
city.(860)

(M457)

A crisis, in the meanwhile, was fast approaching. The birth of an heir to the throne urged
the Duke of York to take prompt action. Towards the end of January (1454) the Duke of York,
the Earls of Salisbury and Warwick, and others of the duke’s supporters, entered the city,
each followed by a large force of retainers fully armed. With them came also York’s eldest
son, the Earl of March, afterwards King Edward IV.(861)

The Common Council were anxious lest the presence of these nobles in the city should lead to
a disturbance. A strict neutrality was ordered to be observed both by the mayor and aldermen,
as well as by the inhabitants of the city at large. The waytes, or watchmen, were ordered to
perambulate the streets every night with their minstrels to keep the citizens in good humour
(pro recreacione hominum), and prevent robbery. Nevertheless, there is evidence to show that
disturbances did occasionally arise between the inhabitants and those in the suite of the nobles.(862)

(M458)

The king’s continued illness necessitated sooner or later the appointment of a regent. For
a brief space there seemed a possibility of the regency being claimed by the queen. The City,
in the meanwhile, paid court to both parties, the mayor and aldermen one day paying a solemn
visit to the queen, attired in their gowns of scarlet, and a few days later paying a similar
compliment to the Duke of York.(863) At length the duke was nominated protector (3 April).
Some correspondence ensued between the City, the Duke of York, the queen, and the Earl of Salisbury,
on what subject we know not,(864) but on the 13th May the mayor and aldermen waited upon the
duke to thank him for his favour and goodwill.(865)

(M459)

So long as the king remained an imbecile York was supreme, his rival, Somerset, having been
committed to prison at his instigation in December, 1453. Henry, however, soon recovered from
his illness, although his convalescence proved of equally short duration, and York’s protectorate
came to an end. With Henry’s restoration came the release of Somerset, and York determined
to try conclusions with his rival in the field. At the first battle of St. Albans, fought on
the 22nd May, 1455, victory declared for York and Somerset was killed. After the battle York
accompanied the king to London and lodged him in the bishop’s palace in St. Paul’s churchyard.
The excitement caused Henry a relapse, and York was for the second time named protector; but
in the spring of 1456 he had again to retire upon the king’s recovery.

(M460)

Just when the country was settling down to enjoy a period of comparative quiet, there occurred
(May, 1456) in the city one of those sudden outbreaks against the "merchant stranger" residing
within the city’s walls which too often appear in the annals of London. On this occasion the
young mercers of the city rose against the Lombards; why or wherefore we are not told. We only
know that these foreigners received such bad treatment that they meditated leaving the city
in a body and setting up business elsewhere. The fault was not altogether with the citizens,
it appears; for two Lombards were ordered to be hanged.(866)

The king, who was at the time at Coventry—whither the queen had caused him to be removed, owing
to her suspicion that the Londoners were in favour of the Yorkist party—sent for alderman Cantelowe,(867)
a mercer, and promptly committed him to Dudley Castle for safe keeping, as having been implicated
in the attack on the houses of the Italian merchants.

This outbreak was followed by another "hurlynge" between the mercers of the city and those
Lombards who had consented to remain in the city on the understanding that they should be allowed
to ply their business without molestation until the council or parliament should determine
otherwise. In consequence of this second outbreak no less than 28 mercers were arrested and
committed to Windsor Castle.(868)

(M461)

On the 3rd September, 1456, the king wrote from Lichfield to the Mayor, reminding him of the
dangers which had recently threatened the city—"the king’s chamber"—the government whereof
ought to serve as an example to the rest of the kingdom, and enjoining him that thenceforth
he should allow no one to enter the city but such as came peaceably, and with moderate retinue,
according to his estate and degree, and should take precautions against gatherings of evil
disposed persons which might lead to a breach of the peace.(869)

(M462)

Notwithstanding the precautions taken to protect the coast, the French made a descent in 1457,
and plundered Sandwich and Fowey, capturing over 30 ships, great and small, and doing much
damage. The citizens of London, to whom the protection of their commerce in the "narrow sea,"
as the channel was then frequently called, was everything, thereupon took counsel among themselves,
and made a proposal to the king and to Bishop Waynflete, the chancellor, to find 2,000 men
and provisions for certain ships then lying in the Thames, at their own expense, to join an
expedition to punish the enemy for their boldness. The king thanked them for their patriotic
spirit and gave orders for a naval force to join the city contingent from Hull.(870)

(M463)

In 1458 Henry tried his hand at effecting a reconciliation between the two rival sections of
the nobility, and to this end ordered a great council to meet in St. Paul’s on the 27th January.
Warwick left his post at Calais, and came over to London to attend the meeting; but he did
not arrive until more than a month after the appointed day, and when he came it was with a
body of 600 men at his back, "all apparyled in reed jakkettes, with whyte ragged stavis."(871)
He took up his quarters within the city, where he found the Duke of York and the Earl of Salisbury.
The young Duke of Somerset and other lords, who, like him, had lost their fathers at the battle
of St. Albans, were refused an entrance to the city for fear of a breach of the peace, and
had to find accommodation outside the city’s walls.(872) During the conference the mayor patrolled
the streets by day, whilst at night a force of 3,000 men was kept in readiness to assist the
aldermen in preserving the king’s peace.(873) The times were critical, but at length all ended
well. A grand pacification took place in March, and was solemnized by an imposing procession
to St. Paul’s, in which York led the queen by the hand. The reconciliation thus effected was
more apparent than real, and neither party relaxed their efforts to prepare for renewed hostility.

(M464) (M465) (M466)

In August the civic companies were warned against furnishing the confederate lords with any
war material, but were to keep their arms and harness at the disposal of the king alone.(874)
It wanted very little to kindle the smouldering embers of dissatisfaction into a flame, and
this little was soon forthcoming. In November(875) a riot occurred at Westminster, in which
the Earl of Warwick was implicated. A yeoman in his suite picked a quarrel with one of the
king’s servants and wounded him. Thereupon others of the king’s household, finding their fellow-servant
wounded and his enemy escaped, way-laid the earl and his attendants as they left the council
to take barge on the river. By dint of hard hitting, the earl managed to embark and to make
his way to the city. But the affray was not without bloodshed, and Warwick found it convenient
to withdraw soon afterwards to his post at Calais, which thenceforth became the head-quarters
of the disaffected lords.

(M467)

In the following April (1459) another affray broke out. This time it was between inhabitants
of the city and certain members of the Inns of Court, and the riot was so dangerous as to result
in loss of life. The king hearing of this sent for William Tayllour, the alderman of the ward,
and kept him in confinement at Windsor until the election of the new mayor, William Hewlyn,
in October, by whose intercession he regained his freedom.(876)

(M468)

By this time the country was again divided into two hostile camps. A crisis came in September,
when the Earl of Salisbury, the king’s most inveterate enemy, marched upon Ludlow with a large
force. Lord Audley, sent by the queen to arrest him, was defeated by the earl at Blore Heath
(23 Sept., 1459). Later on, however, the earl and the Yorkist army were themselves compelled
to seek security. The Duke of York took refuge in Ireland, and the Earl of Warwick, who had
crossed from France to join his father, returned to Calais, taking the Earl of Salisbury with him.

(M469)

On the 9th October the king issued his writ for a parliament to be held at Coventry on the
20th November. The usual writ was sent to the City of London, but the names of the aldermen
and commoners elected to represent the citizens do not appear in the City’s records.(877) The
business of the session was the attainder of the Duke of York and his followers, and judgment
was passed upon the duke, the Nevills, father and son, the young Earls of March and Rutland,
and others. Two days after the date of this writ, the Common Council decided to send a deputation
to wait upon the king and assure him of the City’s allegiance and of the steps taken for its
safe custody.(878)

(M470)

The citizens had previously (Oct., 1459) displayed their willingness to assist the king by
a gift of 1,000 marks.(879) This gift must have been the more welcome, inasmuch as Henry’s
debts had been rapidly on the increase, whilst his creditors remained unpaid. The queen, on
the other hand, into whose hands the government of the kingdom had been drawn, was "gaderyng
riches innumerable." The imposition of taxes, talliages and fifteenths, whilst harassing the
king’s subjects, seemed to make him not a whit the richer, the issues and profits being frittered
away. They would have forgiven him had he maintained a household in regal style or spent their
money on maintaining the country’s honour in the field. As matters were, Henry, by misgovernment,
was rapidly losing the hearts of his people, and "theyre blessyng was turned in to cursyng."(880)

(M471) (M472) (M473)

On the 14th January, 1460, the king issued a commission to the mayor, aldermen and sheriffs
for collecting men-at-arms and archers to resist the late Duke of York and the late Earls of
March, Warwick, Salisbury and Rutland.(881) Similar commissions were addressed to every township,(882)
and did much harm to the royal cause, now tottering to its fall, as being unconstitutional.
They formed the subject of one of the set of articles of complaint drawn up by the Earls of
March, Warwick and Salisbury, and addressed by them, on behalf of themselves and the Duke of
York, to the archbishop and the commons of England.(883) Such commissions the lords declared
to be an imposition which, if continued, would be "the heaviest charge and worst example that
ever grew in England." The city authorities appear to have rested their opposition to the king’s
commission, not so much on the grounds that they were unwilling to raise a force for his assistance,
as that a demand for military aid in such a form might derogate from the city’s franchise and
liberties. A deputation, consisting of two aldermen, Thomas Urswyk, the Recorder, and one of
the under-sheriffs, was sent to Northampton to wait upon the king and council and to explain
the views of the citizens in that respect. The interview was of a satisfactory character; and
the deputation returned bearing a gracious letter from the king declaring that the City’s franchise
and liberties should in no way be prejudiced by the commission.(884)

(M474)

The citizens deemed it time to look to their own safety, and place their city into a better
posture of defence. The master and wardens of the livery companies were exhorted (14 Feb.,
1460), on account of the disturbed state of the kingdom, to raise contributions towards the
purchase of accoutrements for the safeguard of the city.(885) The king himself was shortly
coming into the city, and measures were taken (28 Feb.) for placing a proper guard over the
several gates.(886) On the 11th May the masters and wardens were summoned, on behalf of the
king, to appear before the mayor and aldermen at the Guildhall, to hear a royal proclamation
read touching the preservation of the king’s peace.(887)

(M475)

The Yorkist Earls of Salisbury, Warwick and March, encouraged by the reports of the state of
affairs in England, at length made up their minds to return and strike a blow for the recovery
of their estates, which had become forfeited to the king. They set sail from Calais (26 June),
and landing at Sandwich made their way without opposition through Kent to London.

(M476)

On the 27th June, by which time news of their arrival must have reached the city, a Common
Council was held, when the commoners who were present solemnly promised to stand by the mayor
and aldermen in safe-guarding the city, and resist with all their might the rebels against
the lord the king who were about to enter the city contrary to the king’s orders. The civic
companies somewhat tardily gave their adhesion to the royal cause, and agreed to defend the
city. The gates were ordered to be manned, and no one was to be allowed to enter without first
saying who and what he was. Strict enquiry was to be made as to the character of strangers
residing within each of their wards.(888) On the following day the Common Council met again
and gave orders that the drawbridge of London Bridge should be always kept down, so that victuallers
and others might have ready access to the City, but the gateway on the drawbridge was to be
kept closed, whilst le wikett was to be constantly open. A strict watch was to be kept on the
new tower(889) above the bridge by men-at-arms stationed there, who should also be ready to
let down le port Colyce when occasion required.(890)

(M477)

A deputation, moreover, was appointed to set out to meet the Earls of March and Warwick on
their way to Northampton, for the purpose of inducing them, if possible, to turn aside and
not approach the city. The members were instructed to inform the lords of the king’s commands
to the citizens to hold the city for him, and to oppose the lords’ entry under heavy penalty.
This instruction to the deputation was given, we are told, with the approval of the Archbishop
of Canterbury, the Bishops of Norwich, Ely and Exeter, and of the Prior of St. John’s, Clerkenwell.
The mayor, aldermen and commonalty agreed to stand by any terms which the deputation might
be compelled to make. They had not taken this step without first consulting the Lords Scales
and Hungerford, and Sir Edmund Hampden, who held the Tower of London for King Henry. The bridge
gate was ordered to be closed between nine and ten o’clock on the night of the 28th, and to
remain closed till the morning. Even the portcullis was to be kept down if necessary, whilst
the mayor and sheriffs, with a certain number of armed men, patrolled the city, and the aldermen
kept watch in their several wards.(891) Notwithstanding the next day being Sunday, the critical
state of affairs necessitated a meeting of the Common Council. It was then agreed that if any
messenger should arrive from Warwick, no communication should be held with him. Special watches
were appointed for the bridge and for Billingsgate by night and day, and so anxious were the
authorities to avail themselves of the service of every abled citizen on that Sunday, that
no one was allowed to attend Divine Service at St. Paul’s.(892)

(M478)

Up to this point the citizens had shown themselves loyal to Henry. They now began to waver.
Early in the morning of the 30th June the mayor and aldermen appear to have changed their minds.
The earls had sent them a letter and they resolved to receive it. The contents of this letter
are not recorded. On the following day (1 July) another communication from the earls was received.
Here again we are left in the dark as to its purport—the City’s journals at this period being
very imperfect,—we only know that they declined to accede to the request to keep at a distance
from London, for the very next day (2 July) they were admitted into the city.(893)

(M479)

The city was thus lost to the king; but the Tower still held out, and no amount of eloquence
on the part of certain doctors of divinity, whom the Common Council had appointed to try and
arrange matters so as to avoid bloodshed, would induce Lord Scales and his companions to surrender
it, although the garrison was hard pressed for victuals.(894) Nothing was left but to starve
them out, and this the Earl of Salisbury proceeded to do, with the aid of the citizens and
the boatmen on the river, by whom the Tower was strictly invested by land and water. The Common
Council appear to have felt some qualms of conscience in joining in this proceeding, for they
caused it to be recorded—as if by way of excuse for their action—that "there seemed to be no
other way of preserving the city."(895) A resolution, moreover, that each alderman should subscribe
the sum of £5 towards raising a force to intercept victuals on their way to the Tower was rescinded.(896)

(M480) (M481)

By the 10th July matters had become so serious with the beleaguered garrison, that a letter
was sent to the Common Council, signed by the Earl of Kendal, Lord Scales, Lord Hungerford,
Lord Lovell and Sir Edmund Hampden, asking why war was thus being made upon them. To this the
Council replied that the lords had brought it upon themselves by firing on the citizens in
the first instance, and taking provisions from them without payment.(897) At last the garrison
could hold out no longer, and the Tower was surrendered (19th July). Lord Scales endeavoured
to take sanctuary at Westminster, but was seized by river boatmen and barbarously murdered.(898)

(M482)

Meanwhile the Duke of York had managed to raise a sum of money in the city;(899) the battle
of Northampton had been won and lost (10th July), and Henry had been brought a prisoner to
London (16th July). On the same day that the king arrived in London, the mayor, aldermen and
commonalty of the City entered into an agreement, under the Common Seal, to abide by any arrangement
made between the Earl of Salisbury and the beleaguered lords in the Tower for the surrender
of that stronghold.(900)

(M483)

