In the spirit-world there is a Ministry which controls all things connected with the waters
on earth, salt or fresh. Its main divisions are the Department of Salt Waters, presided over
by four Dragon-kings--those of the East, South, West, and North--and the Department of Sweet
Waters, presided over by the Four Kings (Ssu Tu) of the four great rivers--the Blue (Chiang),
Yellow (Ho), Huai, and Ch'i--and the Dragon-spirits who control the Secondary Waters, the rivers,
springs, lakes, pools, rapids. Into the names and functions of the very large number of officials
connected with these departments it is unnecessary to enter. It will be sufficient here to
refer only to those whose names are connected with myth or legend.

An Unauthorized Portrait

One of these legends relates to the visit of Ch'in Shih Huang-ti, the First Emperor, to the
Spirit of the Sea, Yang Hou, originally a marquis (bou) of the State Yang, who became a god
through being drowned in the sea.

Po Shih, a Taoist priest, told the Emperor that an enormous oyster vomited from the sea a mysterious
substance which accumulated in the form of a tower, and was known as 'the market of the sea'
(Chinese for 'mirage'). Every year, at a certain period, the breath from his mouth was like
the rays of the sun. The Emperor expressed a wish to see it, and Po Shih said he would write
a letter to the God of the Sea, and the next day the Emperor could behold the wonderful sight.

The Emperor then remembered a dream he had had the year before in which he saw two men fighting
for the sun. The one killed the other, and carried it off. He therefore wished to visit the
country where the sun rose. Po Shih said that all that was necessary was to throw rocks into
the sea and build a bridge across them. Thereupon he rang his magic bell, the earth shook,
and rocks began to rise up; but as they moved too slowly he struck them with his whip, and
blood came from them which left red marks in many places. The row of rocks extended as far
as the shore of the sun-country, but to build the bridge across them was found to be beyond
the reach of human skill.

So Po Shih sent another messenger to the God of the Sea, requesting him to raise a pillar and
place a beam across it which could be used as a bridge. The submarine spirits came and placed
themselves at the service of the Emperor, who asked for an interview with the god. To this
the latter agreed on condition that no one should make a portrait of him, he being very ugly.
Instantly a stone gangway 100,000 feet long rose out of the sea, and the Emperor, mounting
his horse, went with his courtiers to the palace of the god. Among his followers was one Lu
Tung-shih, who tried to draw a portrait of the god by using his foot under the surface of the
water. Detecting this manoeuvre, the god was incensed, and said to the Emperor: "You have broken
your word; did you bring Lu here to insult me? Retire at once, or evil will befall you." The
Emperor, seeing that the situation was precarious, mounted his horse and galloped off. As soon
as he reached the beach, the stone cause-way sank, and all his suite perished in the waves.
One of the Court magicians said to the Emperor: "This god ought to be feared as much as the
God of Thunder; then he could be made to help us. To-day a grave mistake has been made." For
several days after this incident the waves beat upon the beach with increasing fury. The Emperor
then built a temple and a pagoda to the god on Chih-fu Shan and Wên-têng Shan respectively;
by which act of propitiation he was apparently appeased.

The Shipwrecked Servant

Once the Eight Immortals (see Chapter XI) were on their way to Ch'ang-li Shan to celebrate
the birthday anniversary of Hsien Wêng, the God of Longevity. They had with them a servant
who bore the presents they intended to offer to the god. When they reached the seashore the
Immortals walked on the waves without any difficulty, but Lan Ts'ai-ho remarked that the servant
was unable to follow them, and said that a means of transport must be found for him. So Ts'ao
Kuo-chiu took a plank of cypress-wood and made a raft. But when they were in mid-ocean a typhoon
arose and upset the raft, and servant and presents sank to the bottom of the sea.

Regarding this as the hostile act of a water-devil, the Immortals said they must demand an
explanation from the Dragon-king, Ao Ch'in. Li T'ieh-kuai took his gourd, and, directing the
mouth toward the bottom of the sea, created so brilliant a light that it illuminated the whole
palace of the Sea-king. Ao Ch'in, surprised, asked where this powerful light originated, and
deputed a courier to ascertain its cause.

To this messenger the Immortals made their complaint. "All we want," they added, "is that the
Dragon-king shall restore to us our servant and the presents." On this being reported to Ao
Ch'in he suspected his son of being the cause, and, having established his guilt, severely
reprimanded him. The young Prince took his sword, and, followed by an escort, went to find
those who had made the complaint to his father. As soon as he caught sight of the Immortals
he began to inveigh against them.

A Battle and its Results

Han Hsiang Tzu, not liking this undeserved abuse, changed his flute into a fishing-line, and
as soon as the Dragon-prince was within reach caught him on the hook, with intent to retain
him as a hostage. The Prince's escort returned in great haste and informed Ao Ch'in of what
had occurred. The latter declared that his son was in the wrong, and proposed to restore the
shipwrecked servant and the presents. The Court officers, however, held a different opinion.
"These Immortals," they said, "dare to hold captive your Majesty's son merely on account of
a few lost presents and a shipwrecked servant. This is a great insult, which we ask permission
to avenge." Eventually they won over Ao Ch'in, and the armies of the deep gathered for the
fray. The Immortals called to their aid the other Taoist Immortals and Heroes, and thus two
formidable armies found themselves face to face.

Several attempts were made by other divinities to avert the conflict, but without success.
The battle was a strenuous one. Ao Ch'in received a ball of fire full on his head, and his
army was threatened with disaster when Tz'u-hang Ta-shih appeared with his bottle of lustral
water. He sprinkled the combatants with this magic fluid, using a willow-branch for the purpose,
thus causing all their magic powers to disappear.

Shui Kuan, the Ruler of the Watery Elements, then arrived, and reproached Ao Ch'in; he assured
him that if the matter were to come to the knowledge of Shang Ti, the Supreme Ruler, he would
not only be severely punished, but would risk losing his post. Ao Ch'in expressed penitence,
restored the servant and the presents, and made full apology to the Eight Immortals.

The Dragon in the Pond

One day Chang Tao-ling, the 'father of modern Taoism,' was on Ho-ming Shan with his disciple
Wang Ch'ang. "See," he said, "that shaft of white light on Yang Shan yonder! There are undoubtedly
some bad spirits there. Let us go and bring them to reason." When they reached the foot of
the mountain they met twelve women who had the appearance of evil spirits. Chang Tao-ling asked
them whence came the shaft of white light. They answered that it was the yin, or female, principle
of the earth. "Where is the source of the salt water?" he asked again. "That pond in front
of you," they replied, "in which lives a very wicked dragon." Chang Tao-ling tried to force
the dragon to come out, but without success. Then he drew a phoenix with golden wings on a
charm and hurled it into the air over the pond. Thereupon the dragon took fright and fled,
the pond immediately drying up. After that Chang Tao-ling took his sword and stuck it in the
ground, whereupon a well full of salt water appeared on the spot.

The Spirits of the Well

The twelve women each offered Chang Tao-ling a jade ring, and asked that they might become
his wives. He took the rings, and pressing them together in his hands made of them one large
single ring. "I will throw this ring into the well," he said, "and the one of you who recovers
it shall be my wife." All the twelve women jumped into the well to get the ring; whereupon
Chang Tao-ling put a cover over it and fastened it down, telling them that henceforth they
should be the spirits of the well and would never be allowed to come out.

Shortly after this Chang Tao-ling met a hunter. He exhorted him not to kill living beings,
but to change his occupation to that of a salt-burner, instructing him how to draw out the
salt from salt-water wells. Thus the people of that district were advantaged both by being
able to obtain the salt and by being no longer molested by the twelve female spirits. A temple,
called Temple of the Prince of Ch'ing Ho, was built by them, and the territory of Ling Chou
was given to Chang Tao-ling in recognition of the benefits he had conferred upon the people.

The Dragon-king's Daughter

A graduate named Liu I, in the reign-period I Fêng (A.D. 676-679) of the Emperor Kao Tsung
of the T'ang dynasty, having failed in his examination for his licentiate's degree, when passing
through Ching-yang Hsien, in Ch'ang-an, Shensi, on his way home, saw a young woman tending
goats by the roadside. She said to him: "I am the youngest daughter of the Dragonking of the
Tung-t'ing Lake. My parents married me to the son of the God of the River Ching, but my husband,
misled by the slanders of the servants, repudiated me. I have heard that you are returning
to the Kingdom of Wu, which is quite close to my native district, so I want to ask you to take
this letter to my father. To the north of the Tung-t'ing Lake you will find a large orange-tree,
called by the natives Protector of the Soil. Strike it three times with your girdle and some
one will appear."

Some months later the graduate went to the spot, found the orange-tree, and struck it three
times, whereupon a warrior arose from the lake and, saluting him, asked what he wanted. "I
wish to see your great King," the graduate replied. The warrior struck the waters, opening
a passage for Liu I, and led him to a palace. "This," he said, "is the palace of Ling Hsü."
In a few minutes there appeared a person dressed in violet-coloured clothes and holding in
his hand a piece of jade. "This is our King," said the warrior. "I am your Majesty's neighbour,"
replied Liu I. "I spent my youth in Ch'u and studied in Ch'in. I have just failed in my licentiate
examination. On my way home I saw your daughter tending some goats; she was all dishevelled,
and in so pitiable a condition that it hurt me to see her, She has sent you this letter."

Golden Dragon Great Prince

On reading the letter the King wept, and all the courtiers followed his example. "Stop wailing,"
said the King, "lest Ch'ien-t'ang hear." "Who is Ch'ien-t'ang?" asked Liu I. "He is my dear
brother," replied the King; "formerly he was one of the chief administrators of the Ch'ien-t'ang
River; now he is the chief God of Rivers." "Why are you so afraid that he might hear what I
have just told you?" "Because he has a terrible temper. It was he who, in the reign of Yao,
caused a nine-years flood."

Before he had finished speaking, a red dragon, a thousand feet long, with red scales, mane
of fire, bloody tongue, and eyes blazing like lightning, passed through the air with rapid
flight and disappeared. Barely a few moments had elapsed when it returned with a young woman
whom Liu I recognized as the one who had entrusted him with the letter. The Dragon-king, overjoyed,
said to him: "This is my daughter; her husband is no more, and she offers you her hand." Liu
did not dare to accept, since it appeared that they had just killed her husband. He took his
departure, and married a woman named Chang, who soon died. He then married another named Han,
who also died. He then went to live at Nanking, and, his solitude preying upon his spirits,
he decided to marry yet again. A middleman spoke to him of a girl of Fang Yang, in Chihli,
whose father, Hao, had been Magistrate of Ch'ing Liu, in Anhui. This man was always absent
on his travels, no one knew whither. The girl's mother, Cheng, had married her two years before
to a man named Chang of Ch'ing Ho, in Chihli, who had just died. Distressed at her daughter
being left a widow so young, the mother wished to find another husband for her.

Liu I agreed to marry this young woman, and at the end of a year they had a son. She then said
to her husband: "I am the daughter of the King of the Tung-t'ing Lake. It was you who saved
me from my miserable plight on the bank of the Ching, and I swore I would reward you. Formerly
you refused to accept my hand, and my parents decided to marry me to the son of a silk-merchant.
I cut my hair, and never ceased to hope that I might some time or other be united to you in
order that I might show you my gratitude."

In A.D. 712, in the reign-period K'ai-yüan of the Emperor Hsüan Tsung of the T'ang dynasty,
they both returned to the Tung-t'ing Lake; but the legend says nothing further with regard to them.

Shang Ti, the Supreme Ruler, conferred on Liu I the title of Chin Lung Ta Wang, 'Golden Dragon
Great Prince.'

The Old Mother of the Waters

The Old Mother of the Waters, Shul-mu Niang-niang, is the legendary spirit of Ssu-chou, in
Anhui. To her is popularly ascribed the destruction of the ancient city of Ssu-chou, which
was completely submerged by the waters of the Hung-tsê Lake in A.D. 1574.

One author states that this Goddess of the Waters is the younger sister of the White Spiritual
Elephant, a guardian of the Door of Buddha. This elephant is the "subtle principle of metamorphosed
water."

In his Recherches sur Us Superstitions en Chine, Père Henri Doré, S.J., relates the legends
he had heard with regard to this deity. One of these is as follows:

Shui-mu Niang-niang inundated the town of Ssu-chou almost every year. A report was presented
to Yu Huang, Lord of the Skies, begging him to put an end to the scourge which devastated the
country and cost so many lives. The Lord of the Skies commanded the Great Kings of the Skies
and their generals to raise troops and take the field in order to capture this goddess and
deprive her of the power of doing further mischief. But her tricks triumphed over force, and
the city continued to be periodically devastated by inundations.

One day Shui-mu Niang-niang was seen near the city gate carrying two buckets of water. Li Lao-chün
suspected some plot, but, an open attack being too risky, he preferred to adopt a ruse. He
went and bought a donkey, led it to the buckets of water, and let it drink their contents.
Unfortunately the animal could not drink all the water, so that a little remained at the bottom
of the buckets. Now these magical buckets contained the sources of the five great lakes, which
held enough water to inundate the whole of China. Shui-mu Niang-niang with her foot overturned
one of the buckets, and the water that had remained in it was enough to cause a formidable
flood, which submerged the unfortunate town, and buried it for ever under the immense sheet
of water called the Lake of Hung-tsê.

So great a crime deserved an exemplary punishment, and accordingly Yü Huang sent reinforcements
to his armies, and a pursuit of the goddess was methodically organized.

The Magic Vermicelli

Sun Hou-tzu, the Monkey Sun, [25] the rapid courier, who in a single skip could traverse 108,000
li (36,000 miles), started in pursuit and caught her up, but the astute goddess was clever
enough to slip through his fingers. Sun Hou-tzu, furious at this setback, went to ask Kuan-yin
P'u-sa to come to his aid. She promised to do so. As one may imagine, the furious race she
had had to escape from her enemy had given Shui-mu Niang-niang a good appetite. Exhausted with
fatigue, and with an empty stomach, she caught sight of a woman selling vermicelli, who had
just prepared two bowls of it and was awaiting customers. Shui-mu Niang-niang went up to her
and began to eat the strength-giving food with avidity. No sooner had she eaten half of the
vermicelli than it changed in her stomach into iron chains, which wound round her intestines.
The end of the chain protruded from her mouth, and the contents of the bowl became another
long chain which welded itself to the end which stuck out beyond her lips. The vermicelli-seller
was no other than Kuan-yin P'u-sa herself, who had conceived this stratagem as a means of ridding
herself of this evil-working goddess. She ordered Sun Hou-tzu to take her down a deep well
at the foot of a mountain in Hsü-i Hsien and to fasten her securely there. It is there that
Shui-mu Niang-niang remains in her liquid prison. The end of the chain is to be seen when the
water is low.

Hsü, the Dragon-slayer

Hsü Chên-chün was a native either of Ju-ning Fu in Honan, or of Nan-ch'ang Fu in Kiangsi. His
father was Hsü Su. His personal name was Ching-chih, and his ordinary name Sun.

At forty-one years of age, when he was Magistrate of Ching-yang, near the modern Chih-chiang
Hsien, in Hupei, during times of drought he had only to touch a piece of tile to turn it into
gold, and thus relieve the people of their distress. He also saved many lives by curing sickness
through the use of talismans and magic formulæ.

During the period of the dynastic troubles he resigned and joined the famous magician Kuo P'o.
Together they proceeded to the minister Wang Tun, who had risen against the Eastern Chin dynasty.
Kuo P'o's remonstrances only irritated the minister, who cut off his head.

Hsü Sun then threw his chalice on the ridgepole of the room, causing it to be whirled into
the air. As Wang Tun was watching the career of the chalice, Hsü disappeared and escaped. When
he reached Lu-chiang K'ou, in Anhui, he boarded a boat, which two dragons towed into the offing
and then raised into the air. In an instant they had borne it to the Lü Shan Mountains, to
the south of Kiukiang, in Kiangsi. The perplexed boatman opened the window of his boat and
took a furtive look out. Thereupon the dragons, finding themselves discovered by an infidel,
set the boat down on the top of the mountain and fled.

The Spiritual Alligator

In this country was a dragon, or spiritual alligator, which transformed itself into a young
man named Shên Lang, and married Chia Yü, daughter of the Chief Judge of T'an Chou (Ch'ang-sha
Fu, capital of Hunan). The young people lived in rooms below the official apartments. During
spring and summer Shên Lang, as dragons are wont to do, roamed in the rivers and lakes. One
day Hsü Chên-chün met him, recognized him as a dragon, and knew that he was the cause of the
numerous floods which were devastating Kiangsi Province. He determined to find a means of getting
rid of him.

Shên Lang, aware of the steps being taken against him, changed himself into a yellow ox and
fled. Hsü Chên-chün at once transformed himself into a black ox and started in pursuit. The
yellow ox jumped down a well to hide, but the black ox followed suit. The yellow ox then jumped
out again, and escaped to Ch'ang-sha, where he reassumed a human form and lived with Ms wife
in the home of his father-in-law, Hsü Sun, returning to the town, hastened to the yamên, and
called to Shên Lang to come out and show himself, addressing him in a severe tone of voice
as follows: "Dragon, how dare you hide yourself there under a borrowed form?" Shên Lang then
reassumed the form of a spiritual alligator, and Hsü Sun ordered the spiritual soldiers to
kill him. He then commanded his two sons to come out of their abode. By merely spurting a mouthful
of water on them he transformed them into young dragons. Chia Yü was told to vacate the rooms
with all speed, and in the twinkling of an eye the whole yamên sank beneath the earth, and
there remained nothing but a lake where it had been.

Hsü Chên-chün, after his victory over the dragon, assembled the members of his family, to the
number of forty-two, on Hsi Shan, outside the city of Nan-ch'ang Fu, and all ascended to Heaven
in full daylight, taking with them even the dogs and chickens. He was then 133 years old. This
took place on the first day of the eighth moon of the second year (A.D. 374) of the reign-period
Ning-K'ang of the reign of the Emperor Hsiao Wu Ti of the Eastern Chin dynasty.

Subsequently a temple was erected to him, and in A.D. 1111 he was canonized as Just Prince,
Admirable and Beneficent.

The Great Flood

The repairing of the heavens by Nü Kua, elsewhere alluded to, is also attributed to the following
incident.

Before the Chinese Empire was founded a noble and wonderful queen fought with the chief of
the tribes who inhabited the country round about Ô-mei Shan. In a fierce battle the chief and
his followers met defeat; raging with anger at being beaten by a woman, he rushed up the mountain-side;
the Queen pursued him with her army, and overtook him at the summit; finding no place to hide
himself, he attempted in desperation both to wreak vengeance upon his enemies and to end his
own life by beating his head violently against the cane of the Heavenly Bamboo which grew there.
By his mad battering he at last succeeded in knocking down the towering trunk of the tree,
and as he did so its top tore great rents in the canopy of the sky, through which poured great
floods of water, inundating the whole earth and drowning all the inhabitants except the victorious
Queen and her soldiers. The floods had no power to harm her or her followers, because she herself
was an all-powerful divinity and was known as the 'Mother of the Gods,' and the 'Defender of
the Gods.' From the mountain-side she gathered together stones of a kind having five colours,
and ground them into powder; of this she made a plaster or mortar, with which she repaired
the tears in the heavens, and the floods immediately ceased.

The Marriage of the River-god

In Yeh Hsien there was a witch and some official attendants who collected money from the people
yearly for the marriage of the River-god.

The witch would select a pretty girl of low birth, and say that she should be the Queen of
the River-god. The girl was bathed, and clothed in a beautiful dress of gay and costly silk.
She was then taken to the bank of the river, to a monastery which was beautifully decorated
with scrolls and banners. A feast was held, and the girl was placed on a bed which was floated
out upon the tide till it disappeared under the waters.

Many families having beautiful daughters moved to distant places, and gradually the city became
deserted. The common belief in Yeh was that if no queen was offered to the River-god a flood
would come and drown the people.

One day Hsi-mên Pao, Magistrate of Yeh Hsien, said to his attendants: "When the marriage of
the River-god takes place I wish to say farewell to the chosen girl."

Accordingly Hsi-mên Pao was present to witness the ceremony. About three thousand people had
come together. Standing beside the old witch were ten of her female disciples, "Call the girl
out," said Hsi-mên Pao. After seeing her, Hsi-mên Pao said to the witch: "She is not fair.
Go you to the River-god and tell him that we will find a fairer maid and present her to him
later on." His attendants then seized the witch and threw her into the river.

After a little while Hsi-mên Pao said: "Why does she stay so long? Send a disciple to call
her back." One of the disciples was thrown into the river. Another and yet another followed.
The magistrate then said:" The witches are females and therefore cannot bring me a reply."
So one of the official attendants of the witch was thrown into the river.

Hsi-mên Pao stood on the bank for a long time, apparently awaiting a reply. The spectators
were alarmed. Hsi-mên Pao then bade his attendants send the remaining disciples of the witch
and the other official attendants to recall their mistress. The wretches threw themselves on
their knees and knocked their heads on the ground, which was stained with the blood from their
foreheads, and with tears confessed their sin.

"The River-god detains his guest too long," said Hsi-mên Pao at length. "Let us adjourn."

Thereafter none dared to celebrate the marriage of the River-god.

Legend of the Building of Peking

When the Mongol Yüan dynasty had been destroyed, and the Emperor Hung Wu had succeeded in firmly
establishing that of the Great Ming, Ta Ming, he made Chin-ling, the present Nanking, his capital,
and held his Court there with great splendour, envoys from every province within the 'Four
Seas' (the Chinese Empire) assembling there to witness his greatness and to prostrate themselves
before the Dragon Throne.

The Emperor had many sons and daughters by his different consorts and concubines, each mother,
in her inmost heart, fondly hoping that her own son would be selected by his father to succeed him.

Although the Empress had a son, who was the heir-apparent, yet she felt envious of those ladies
who had likewise been blessed with children, for fear one of the princes should supplant her
son in the affection of the Emperor and in the succession. This envy displayed itself on every
occasion; she was greatly beloved by the Emperor, and exerted all her influence with him, as
the other young princes grew up, to get them removed from Court. Through her means most of
them were sent to the different provinces as governors; those provinces under their government
being so many principalities or kingdoms.

Chu-ti

One of the consorts of Hung Wu, the Lady Wêng, had a son named Chu-ti. This young prince was
very handsome and graceful in his deportment; he was, moreover, of an amiable disposition.
He was the fourth son of the Emperor, and his pleasing manner and address had made him a great
favourite, not only with his father, but with every one about the Court. The Empress noticed
the evident affection the Emperor evinced for this prince, and determined to get him removed
from the Court as soon as possible. By a judicious use of flattery and cajolery, she ultimately
persuaded the Emperor to appoint the prince governor of the Yen country, and thenceforth he
was styled Yen Wang, Prince of Yen.

The Sealed Packet

The young Prince, shortly after, taking an affectionate leave of the Emperor, left Chin-ling
to proceed to his post. Ere he departed, however, a Taoist priest, called Liu Po-wên, who had
a great affection for the Prince, put a sealed packet into his hand, and told him to open it
when he found himself in difficulty, distress, or danger; the perusal of the first portion
that came to his hand would invariably suggest some remedy for the evil, whatever it was. After
doing so, he was again to seal the packet, without further looking into its contents, till
some other emergency arose necessitating advice or assistance, when he would again find it.
The Prince departed on his journey, and in the course of time, without meeting with any adventures
worth recording, arrived safely at his destination.

A Desolate Region

The place where Peking now stands was originally called Yu Chou; in the T'ang dynasty it was
called Pei-p'ing Fu; and afterward became known as Shun-t'ien Fu--but that was after the city
now called Peking was built. The name of the country in which this place was situated was Yen.
It was a mere barren wilderness, with very few inhabitants; these lived in huts and scattered
hamlets, and there was no city to afford protection to the people and to check the depredations
of robbers.

When the Prince saw what a desolate-looking place he had been appointed to, and thought of
the long years he was probably destined to spend there, he grew very melancholy, and nothing
his attendants essayed to do in hope of alleviating his sorrow succeeded.

The Prince opens the Sealed Packet

All at once the Prince bethought himself of the packet which the old Taoist priest had given
him; he forthwith proceeded to make search for it--for in the bustle and excitement of travelling
he had forgotten all about it--in hope that it might suggest something to better the prospects
before him. Having found the packet, he hastily broke it open to see what instructions it contained;
taking out the first paper which came to hand, he read the following:

"When you reach Pei-p'ing Fu you must build a city there and name it No-cha Ch'êng, the City
of No-cha. [26] But, as the work will be costly, you must issue a proclamation inviting the
wealthy to subscribe the necessary funds for building it. At the back of this paper is a plan
of the city; you must be careful to act according to the instructions accompanying it."

The Prince inspected the plan, carefully read the instructions, and found even the minutest
details fully explained. He was struck with the grandeur of the design of the proposed city,
and at once acted on the instructions contained in the packet; proclamations were posted up,
and large sums were speedily subscribed, ten of the wealthiest families who had accompanied
him from Chin-ling being the largest contributors, supporting the plan not only with their
purses, by giving immense sums, but by their influence among their less wealthy neighbours.

The City is Founded

When sufficient money had been subscribed, a propitious day was chosen on which to commence
the undertaking. Trenches where the foundations of the walls were to be were first dug out,
according to the plan found in the packet. The foundations themselves consisted of layers of
stone quarried from the western hills; bricks of an immense size were made and burnt in the
neighbourhood; the moat was dug out, and the earth from it used to fill in the centre of the
walls, which, when complete, were forty-eight li in circumference, fifty cubits in height,
and fifty in breadth; the whole circuit of the walls having battlements and embrasures. Above
each of the nine gates of the city immense three-storied towers were built, each tower being
ninety-nine cubits in height.

Near the front entrance of the city, facing each other, were built the Temples of Heaven and
of Earth. In rear of it the beautiful 'Coal Hill' (better known as 'Prospect Hill') was raised;
while in the square in front of the Great Gate of the palace was buried an immense quantity
of charcoal (that and the coal being stored as a precaution in case of siege).

The palace, containing many superb buildings, was built in a style of exceeding splendour;
in the various enclosures were beautiful gardens and lakes; in the different courtyards, too,
seventy-two wells were dug and thirty-six golden tanks placed. The whole of the buildings and
grounds was surrounded by a lofty wall and a stone-paved moat, in which the lotus and other
flowers bloomed in great beauty and profusion, and in the clear waters of which myriads of
gold and silver fish disported themselves.

The geomancy of the city was similar to that of Chin-ling, When everything was completed the
Prince compared it with the plan and found that the city tallied with it in every respect.
He was much delighted, and called for the ten wealthy persons who had been the chief contributors,
and gave each of them a pair of 'couchant dragon' silk- or satin-embroidered cuffs, and allowed
them great privileges. Up to the present time there is the common saying: "Since then the 'dragon-cuffed'
gentlefolks have flourished."

General Prosperity

All the people were loud in praise of the beauty and strength of the newly built city. Merchants
from every province hastened to Peking, attracted by the news they heard of its magnificence
and the prospect there was of profitably disposing of their wares. In short, the people were
prosperous and happy, food was plentiful, the troops brave, the monarch just, his ministers
virtuous, and all enjoyed the blessings of peace.

A Drought and its Cause

While everything was thus tranquil, a sudden and untoward event occurred which spread dismay
and consternation on all sides. One day when the Prince went into the hall of audience one
of his ministers reported that "the wells are thirsty and the rivers dried up"--there was no
water, and the people were all in the greatest alarm. The Prince at once called his counsellors
together to devise some means of remedying this disaster and causing the water to return to
the wells and springs, but no one could suggest a suitable plan.

It is necessary to explain the cause of this scarcity of water. There was a dragon's cave outside
the east gate of the city at a place called Lei-chên K'ou, 'Thunder-clap Mouth' or 'Pass' (the
name of a village). The dragon had not been seen for myriads of years, yet it was well known
that he lived there.

In digging out the earth to build the wall the workmen had broken into this dragon's cave,
little thinking of the consequences which would result. The dragon was exceedingly wroth and
determined to shift his abode, but the she-dragon said: "We have lived here thousands of years,
and shall we suffer the Prince of Yen to drive us forth thus? If we do go we will collect all
the water, place it in our yin-yang baskets [used for drawing water], and at midnight we will
appear in a dream to the Prince, requesting permission to retire. If he gives us permission
to do so, and allows us also to take our baskets of water with us, he will fall into our trap,
for we shall take the waler with his own consent,"

The Prince's Dream

The two dragons then transformed themselves into an old man and an old woman, went to the chamber
of the Prince, who was asleep, and appeared to him in a dream. Kneeling before him, they cried:
"O Lord of a Thousand Years, we have come before you to beg leave to retire from this place,
and to beseech you out of your great bounty to give us permission to take these two baskets
of water with us."

The Prince readily assented, little dreaming of the danger he was incurring. The dragons were
highly delighted, and hastened out of his presence; they filled the baskets with all the water
there was in Peking, and carried them off with them.

When the Prince awoke he paid no attention to his dream till he heard the report of the scarcity
of water, when, reflecting on the singularity of his dream, he thought there might be some
hidden meaning in it. He therefore had recourse to the packet again, and discovered that his
dream-visitors had been dragons, who had taken the waters of Peking away with them in their
magic baskets; the packet, however, contained directions for the recovery of the water, and
he at once prepared to follow them.

The Pursuit of the Dragons

In haste the Prince donned his armour, mounted his black steed, and, spear in hand, dashed
out of the west gate of the city. He pressed on his horse, which went swift as the wind, nor
did he slacken speed till he came up with the water-stealing dragons, who still retained the
forms in which they had appeared to him in his dream. On a cart were the two identical baskets
he had seen; in front of the cart, dragging it, was the old woman, while behind, pushing it,
was the old man.

An Unexpected Flood

When the Prince saw them he galloped up to the cart, and, without pausing, thrust his spear
into one of the baskets, making a great hole, out of which the water rushed so rapidly that
the Prince was much frightened. He dashed off at full speed to save himself from being swallowed
up by the waters, which in a very short time had risen more than thirty feet and had flooded
the surrounding country. On galloped the Prince, followed by the roaring water, till he reached
a hill, up which he urged his startled horse. When he gained the top he found that it stood
out of the water like an island, completely surrounded; the water was seething and swirling
round the hill in a frightful manner, but no vestige could he see of either of the dragons.

The Waters Subside

The Prince was very much alarmed at his perilous position, when suddenly a Buddhist priest
appeared before him, with clasped hands and bent head, who bade him not be alarmed, as with
Heaven's assistance he would soon disperse the water. Hereupon the priest recited a short prayer
or spell, and the waters receded as rapidly as they had risen, and finally returned to their
proper channels.

The Origin of Chên-shui T'a

The broken basket became a large deep hole, some three mu (about half an English acre) in extent,
in the centre of which was a fountain which threw up a vast body of clear water. From the midst
of this there arose a pagoda, which rose and fell with the water, floating on the top like
a vessel; the spire thrusting itself far up into the sky, and swaying about like the mast of
a ship in a storm.

The Prince returned to the city filled with wonder at what he had seen, and with joy at having
so successfully carried out the directions contained in the packet. On all sides he was greeted
by the acclamations of the people, who hailed him as the saviour of Peking. Since that time
Peking has never had the misfortune to be without water.

The pagoda is called the Pagoda on the Hill of the Imperial Spring (Yü Ch'üan Shan T'a; more
commonly Chên-shui T'a, 'Water-repressing Pagoda'). [27] The spring is still there, and day
and night, unceasingly, its clear waters bubble up and flow eastward to Peking, which would
now be a barren wilderness but for Yen Wang's pursuit of the water.

CHAPTER VIII

Myths of Fire

The Ministry of Fire

The celestial organization of Fire is the fifth Ministry, and is presided over by a President,
Lo Hsüan, whose titular designation is Huo-tê Hsing-chün, 'Stellar Sovereign of the Fire-virtue,'
with five subordinate ministers, four of whom are star-gods, and the fifth a "celestial prince
who receives fire": Chieh-huo T'ien-chün. Like so many other Chinese deities, the five were
all ministers of the tyrant emperor Chou.

It is related that Lo Hsüan was originally a Taoist priest known as Yen-chung Hsien, of the
island Huo-lung, 'Fire-dragon.' His face was the colour of ripe fruit of the jujube-tree, his
hair and beard red, the former done up in the shape of a fish-tail, and he had three eyes.
He wore a red cloak ornamented with the pa kua; his horse snorted flames from its nostrils
and fire darted from its hoofs.

While fighting in the service of the son of the tyrant emperor, Lo Hsüan suddenly changed himself
into a giant with three heads and six arms. In each of his hands he held a magic weapon. These
were a seal which reflected the heavens and the earth, a wheel of the five fire-dragons, a
gourd containing ten thousand fire-crows, and, in the other hands, two swords which floated
like smoke, and a column of smoke several thousands of li long enclosing swords of fire.

A Conflagration

Having arrived at the city of Hsi Ch'i, Lo Hsüan sent forth his smoke-column, the air was filled
with swords of fire, the ten thousand fire-crows, emerging from the gourd, spread themselves
over the town, and a terrible conflagration broke out, the whole place being ablaze in a few
minutes.

At this juncture there appeared in the sky the Princess Lung Chi, daughter of Wang-mu Niang-niang;
forthwith she spread over the city her shroud of mist and dew, and the fire was extinguished
by a heavy downpour of rain. All the mysterious mechanisms of Lo Hsüan lost their efficacy,
and the magician took to his heels down the side of the mountain. There he was met by Li, the
Pagoda-bearer, [28] who threw his golden pagoda into the air. The pagoda fell on Lo Hsüan's
head and broke his skull.

C'ih Ching-tzu

Of the various fire-gods, Ch'ih Ching-tzu, the principle of spiritual fire, is one of the five
spirits representing the Five Elements. He is Fire personified, which has its birth in the
south, on Mount Shih-t'ang. He himself and everything connected with him--his skin, hair, beard,
trousers, cloak of leaves, etc.--are all of the colour of fire, though he is sometimes represented
with a blue cap resembling the blue tip of a flame. He appeared in the presence of Huang Lao
in a fire-cloud. He it was who obtained fire from the wood of the mulberry-tree, and the heat
of this fire, joined with the moisture of water, developed the germs of terrestrial beings.

The Red Emperor

Chu Jung, though also otherwise personified, is generally regarded as having been a legendary
emperor who made his first appearance in the time of Hsien Yuan (2698-2598 B.C.). In his youth
he asked Kuang-shou Lao-jên, 'Old Longevity,' to grant him immortality. "The time has not yet
come," replied Old Longevity; "before it does you have to become an emperor. I will give you
the means of reaching the end you desire. Give orders that after you are dead you are to be
buried on the southern slope of the sacred mountain Hêng Shan; there you will learn the doctrine
of Ch'ih Ching-tzu and will become immortal."

The Emperor Hsien Yüan, having abdicated the throne, sent for Chu Jung, and bestowed upon him
the crown. Chu Jung, having become emperor, taught the people the use of fire and the advantages
to be derived therefrom. In those early times the forests were filled with venomous reptiles
and savage animals; he ordered the peasants to set fire to the brushwood to drive away these
dangerous neighbours and keep them at a distance. He also taught his subjects the art of purifying,
forging, and welding metals by the action of fire. He was nicknamed Ch'ih Ti, 'the Red Emperor.'
He reigned for more than two hundred years, and became an Immortal, His capital was the ancient
city of Kuei, thirty li north-east of Hsin-chêng Hsien, in the Prefecture of K'ai-fêng Fu,
Honan. His tomb is on the southern slope of Heng Shan. The peak is known as Chu Jung Peak.
His descendants, who went to live in the south, were the ancestors of the Directors of Fire.

Hui Lu

The most popular God of Fire, however, is Hui Lu, a celebrated magician who, according to the
Shên hsien t'ung chien, lived some time before the reign of Ti K'u (2436-2366 B.C.), the father
of Yao the Great, and had a mysterious bird named Pi Fang and a hundred other fire-birds shut
up in a gourd. He had only to let them out to set up a conflagration which would extend over
the whole country.

Huang Ti ordered Chu Jung to fight Hui Lu and also to subdue the rebel Chih Yu. Chu Jung had
a large bracelet of pure gold--a most wonderful and effective weapon. He hurled it into the
air, and it fell on Hui Lu's neck, throwing him to the ground and rendering him incapable of
moving. Finding resistance impossible, he asked mercy from his victor and promised to be his
follower in the spiritual contests. Subsequently he always called himself Huo-shih Chih T'u,
'the Disciple of the Master of Fire.'

The Fire-emperor

Shen Nung, the God of Agriculture, also adds to his other functions those appertaining to the
God of Fire, the reason being that when he succeeded the Emperor Fu Hsi on the throne he adopted
fire as the emblem of his government, just as Huang Ti adopted the symbol of Earth. Thus he
came to be called Huo Ti, the 'Fire-emperor.' He taught his subjects the use of fire for smelting
metals and making implements and weapons, and the use of oil in lamps, etc. All the divisions
of his official hierarchy were connected in some way with this element; thus, there were the
Ministers of Fire generally, the officers of Fire of the North, South, etc. Becoming thus doubly
the patron of fire, a second fire symbol (huo) was added to his name, changing it from Huo
Ti, 'Fire-emperor,' to Yen Ti, 'Blazing Emperor,'

CHAPTER IX

Myths of Epidemics, Medicine, Exorcism, Etc.

The Ministry of Epidemics

The gods of epidemics, etc., belong to the sixth, ninth, second, and third celestial Ministries.
The composition of the Ministry of Epidemics is arranged differently in different works as
Epidemics (regarded as epidemics on earth, but as demons in Heaven) of the Centre, Spring,
Summer, Autumn, and Winter, or as the marshals clothed in yellow, green, red, white, and blue
respectively, or as the Officers of the East, West, South, and North, with two additional members:
a Taoist who quells the plague, and the Grand Master who exhorts people to do right.

With regard to the Ministry of Seasonal Epidemics, it is related that in the sixth moon of
the eleventh year (A.D. 599) of the reign of Kao Tsu, founder of the Sui dynasty, five stalwart
persons appeared in the air, clothed in robes of five colours, each carrying different objects
in his hands: the first a spoon and earthenware vase, the second a leather bag and sword, the
third a fan, the fourth a club, the fifth a jug of fire. The Emperor asked Chang Chü-jên, his
Grand Historiographer, who these were and if they were benevolent or evil spirits. The official
answered: "These are the five powers of the five directions. Their appearance indicates the
imminence of epidemics, which will last throughout the four seasons of the year." "What remedy
is there, and how am I to protect the people?" inquired the Emperor. "There is no remedy,"
replied the official, "for epidemics are sent by Heaven." During that year the mortality was
very great. The Emperor built a temple to the five persons, and bestowed upon them the title
of Marshals to the Five Spirits of the Plague. During that and the following dynasty sacrifices
were offered to them on the fifth day of the fifth moon.

The President of the Ministry

The following particulars are given concerning the President of the Ministry, whose name was
Lü Yüeh. He was an old Taoist hermit, living at Chiu-lung Tao, 'Nine-dragon Island,' who became
an Immortal. The four members of the Ministry were his disciples. He wore a red garment, had
a blue face, red hair, long teeth, and three eyes. His war-horse was named the Myopic Camel.
He carried a magic sword, and was in the service of Chou Wang, whose armies were concentrated
at Hsi Ch'i. In a duel with Mu-cha, brother of No-cha, he had his arm severed by a sword-cut.
In another battle with Huang T'ien-hua, son of Huang Fei-hu, he appeared with three heads and
six arms. In his many hands he held the celestial seal, plague microbes, the flag of plague,
the plague sword, and two mysterious swords. His faces were green, and large teeth protruded
from his mouths. Huang T'ien-hua threw his magic weapon, Huo-lung Piao, and hit him on the
leg. Just at that moment Chiang Tzu-ya arrived with his goblin-dispelling whip and felled him
with a blow. He was able, however, to rise again, and took to flight.

The Plague-disseminating Umbrellas

Resolved to avenge his defeat, he joined General Hsü Fang, who was commanding an army corps
at Ch'uan-yün Kuan. Round the mountain he organized a system of entrenchments and of infection
against their enemies. Yang Chien released his celestial hound, which bit Lü Yüeh on the crown
of his head. Then Yang Jên, armed with his magic fan, pursued Lü Yüeh and compelled him to
retreat to his fortress. Lü Yüeh mounted the central raised part of the embattled wall and
opened all his plague-disseminating umbrellas, with the object of infecting Yang Jên, but the
latter, simply by waving his fan, reduced all the umbrellas to dust, and also burned the fort,
and with it Lü Yüeh.

Similar wonderful achievements are related in short notices in the Fêng shên yen i of the four
other officers of the Ministry.

Li P'ing, the sixth officer of the Ministry, met a like fate to that of Lü Yüeh after having
failed to induce the latter to abandon the cause of the Shang dynasty for that of Chou.

The Five Graduates

In Père Henri Doré's Recherches sur les Superstitions en Chine is given an interesting legend
concerning five other gods of epidemics. These gods are called the Wu Yüeh, 'Five Mountains,'
and are worshipped in the temple San-i Ko at Ju-kao, especially in outbreaks of contagious
diseases and fevers. A sufferer goes to the temple and promises offerings to the gods in the
event of recovery. The customary offering is five small wheaten loaves, called shao ping, and
a pound of meat.

The Wu Yüeh are stellar devils whom Yü Huang sent to be reincarnated on earth. Their names
were T'ien Po-hsüeh, Tung Hung-wên, Ts'ai Wên-chü, Chao Wu-chên, and Huang Ying-tu, and they
were reincarnated at Nan-ch'ang Fu, Chien-ch'ang Fu, Yen-mên Kuan, Yang Chou, and Nanking respectively.
They were all noted for their brilliant intellects, and were clever scholars who passed their
graduate's examination with success.

When Li Shih-min ascended the throne, in A.D. 627, he called together all the literati of the
Empire to take the Doctor's Examination in the capital. Our five graduates started for the
metropolis, but, losing their way, were robbed by brigands, and had to beg help in order to
reach the end of their journey. By good luck they all met in the temple San-i Ko, and related
to each other the various hardships they had undergone. But when they eventually reached the
capital the examination was over, and they were out in the streets without resources. So they
took an oath of brotherhood for life and death. They pawned some of the few clothes they possessed,
and buying some musical instruments formed themselves into a band of strolling musicians.

The first bought a drum, the second a seven-stringed guitar, the third a mandolin, the fourth
a clarinet, and the fifth and youngest composed songs.

Thus they went through the streets of the capital giving their concerts, and Fate decreed that
Li Shih-min should hear their melodies. Charmed with the sweet sounds, he asked Hsü Mao-kung
whence came this band of musicians, whose skill was certainly exceptional. Having made inquiries,
the minister related their experiences to the Emperor. Li Shih-min ordered them to be brought
into his presence, and after hearing them play and sing appointed them to his private suite,
and henceforth they accompanied him wherever he went.

The Emperors Strategy

The Emperor bore malice toward Chang T'ien-shih, the Master of the Taoists, because he refused
to pay the taxes on his property, and conceived a plan to bring about his destruction. He caused
a spacious subterranean chamber to be dug under the reception-hall of his palace. A wire passed
through the ceiling to where the Emperor sat. He could thus at will give the signal for the
music to begin or stop. Having stationed the five musicians in this subterranean chamber, he
summoned the Master of the Taoists to his presence and invited him to a banquet. During the
course of this he pulled the wire, and a subterranean babel began.

The Emperor pretended to be terrified, and allowed himself to fall to the ground. Then, addressing
himself to the T'ien-shih, he said: "I know that you can at will catch the devilish hobgoblins
which molest human beings. You can hear for yourself the infernal row they make in my palace.
I order you under penalty of death to put a stop to their pranks and to exterminate them."

The Musicians are Slain

Having spoken thus, the Emperor rose and left. The Master of the Taoists brought his projecting
mirror, and began to seek for the evil spirits. In vain he inspected the palace and its precincts;
he could discover nothing. Fearing that he was lost, he in despair threw his mirror on the
floor of the reception-hall.

A minute later, sad and pensive, he stooped to pick it up; what was his joyful surprise when
he saw reflected in it the subterranean room and the musicians! At once he drew five talismans
on yellow paper, burned them, and ordered his celestial general, Chao Kung-ming, to take his
sword and kill the five musicians. The order was promptly executed, and the T'ien-shih informed
the Emperor, who received the news with ridicule, not believing it to be true. He went to his
seat and pulled the wire, but all remained silent. A second and third time he gave the signal,
but without response. He then ordered his Grand Officer to ascertain what had happened. The
officer found the five graduates bathed in their blood, and lifeless.

The Emperor, furious, reproached the Master of the Taoists. "But," replied the T'ien-shih,
"was it not your Majesty who ordered me under pain of death to exterminate the authors of this
pandemonium?" Li Shih-min could not reply. He dismissed the Master of the Taoists and ordered
the five victims to be buried.

The Emperor Tormented

After the funeral ceremonies, apparitions appeared at night in the place where they had been
killed, and the palace became a babel. The spirits threw bricks and broke the tiles on the roofs.

The Emperor ordered his uncomfortable visitors to go to the T'ien-shih who had murdered them.
They obeyed, and, seizing the garments of the Master of the Taoists, swore not to allow him
any rest if he would not restore them to life.

To appease them the Taoist said: "I am going to give each of you a wonderful object. You are
then to return and spread epidemics among wicked people, beginning in the imperial palace and
with the Emperor himself, with the object of forcing him to canonize you."

One received a fan, another a gourd filled with fire, the third a metallic ring to encircle
people's heads, the fourth a stick made of wolves' teeth, and the fifth a cup of lustral water.

The spirit-graduates left full of joy, and made their first experiment on Li Shih-min. The
first gave him feverish chills by waving his fan, the second burned him with the fire from
his gourd, the third encircled his head with the ring, causing him violent headache, the fourth
struck him with his stick, and the fifth poured out his cup of lustral water on his head.

The same night a similar tragedy took place in the palace of the Empress and the two chief
imperial concubines.

T'ai-po Chin-hsing, however, informed Yü Huang what had happened, and, touched with compassion,
he sent three Immortals with pills and talismans which cured the Empress and the ladies of
the palace.

The Graduates Canonized

Li Shih-min, having also recovered his health, summoned the five deceased graduates and expressed
his regret for the unfortunate issue of his design against the T'ien-shih. He proceeded: "To
the south of the capital is the temple San-i Ko. I will change its name to Hsiang Shan Wu Yüeh
Shên, 'Fragrant Hill of the Five Mountain Spirits.' On the twenty-eighth day of the ninth moon
betake yourselves to that temple to receive the seals of your canonization." He conferred upon
them the title of Ti, 'Emperor.'

The Ministry of Medicine

The celestial Ministry of Medicine is composed of three main divisions comprising: (1) the
Ancestral Gods of the Chinese race; (2) the King of Remedies, Yao Wang; and (3) the Specialists.
There is a separate Ministry of Smallpox. This latter controls and cures smallpox, and the
establishment of a separate celestial Ministry is significant of the prevalence and importance
of the affliction. The ravages of smallpox in China, indeed, have been terrific: so much so,
that, until recent years, it was considered as natural and inevitable for a child to have smallpox
as for it to cut its teeth. One of the ceremonial questions addressed by a visitor to the parent
of a child was always Ch'u la hua'rh mei yu? "Has he had the smallpox?" and a child who escaped
the scourge was often, if not as a rule, regarded with disfavour and, curiously enough, as
a weakling. Probably the train of thought in the Chinese mind was that, as it is the fittest
who survive, those who have successfully passed through the process of "putting out the flowers"
have proved their fitness in the struggle for existence. Nowadays vaccination is general, and
the number of pockmarked faces seen is much smaller than it used to be--in fact, the pockmarked
are now the exception. But, as far as I have been able to ascertain, the Ministry of Smallpox
has not been abolished, and possibly its members, like those of some more mundane ministries,
continue to draw large salaries for doing little or no work.

The Medicine-gods

The chief gods of medicine are the mythical kings P'an Ku, Fu Hsi, Shên Nung, and Huang Ti.
The first two, being by different writers regarded as the first progenitor or creator of the
Chinese people, are alternatives, so that Fu Hsi, Shên Nung, and Huang Ti may be said to be
a sort of ancestral triad of medicine-gods, superior to the actual God or King of Medicine,
Yao Wang. Of P'an Ku we have spoken sufficiently in Chapter III, and with regard to Fu Hsi,
also called T'ien Huang Shih, 'the Celestial Emperor,' the mythical sovereign and supposed
inventor of cooking, musical instruments, the calendar, hunting, fishing, etc., the chief interest
for our present purpose centres in his discovery of the pa kua, or Eight Trigrams. It is on
the strength of these trigrams that Fu Hsi is regarded as the chief god of medicine, since
it is by their mystical power that the Chinese physicians influence the minds and maladies
of their patients. He is represented as holding in front of him a disk on which the signs are
painted.

The Ministry of Exorcism

The Ministry of Exorcism is a Taoist invention and is composed of seven chief ministers, whose
duty is to expel evil spirits from dwellings and generally to counteract the annoyances of
infernal demons. The two gods usually referred to in the popular legends are P'an Kuan and
Chung K'uei. The first is really the Guardian of the Living and the Dead in the Otherworld,
Fêng-tu P'an Kuan (Fêng-tu or Fêng-tu Ch'êng being the region beyond the tomb). He was originally
a scholar named Ts'ui Chio, who became Magistrate of Tz'u Chou, and later Minister of Ceremonies.
After his death he was appointed to the spiritual post above mentioned. His best-known achievement
is his prolongation of the life of the Emperor T'ai Tsung of the T'ang dynasty by twenty years
by changing i, 'one,' into san, 'three,' in the life-register kept by the gods. The term P'an
Kuan is, however, more generally used as the designation of an officer or civil or military
attendant upon a god than of any special individual, and the original P'an Kuan, 'the Decider
of Life in Hades,' has been gradually supplanted in popular favour by Chung K'uei, 'the Protector
against Evil Spirits.'

The Exorcism of 'Emptiness and Devastation'

The Emperor Ming Huang of the T'ang dynasty, also known as T'ang Hsüan Tsung, in the reign-period
K'ai Yüan (A.D. 712-742), after an expedition to Mount Li in Shensi, was attacked by fever.
During a nightmare he saw a small demon fantastically dressed in red trousers, with a shoe
on one foot but none on the other, and a shoe hanging from his girdle. Having broken through
a bamboo gate, he took possession of an embroidered box and a jade flute, and then began to
make a tour of the palace, sporting and gambolling. The Emperor grew angry and questioned him.
"Your humble servant," replied the little demon, "is named Hsü Hao, 'Emptiness and Devastation,'"
"I have never heard of such a person," said the Emperor. The demon rejoined, "Hsü means to
desire Emptiness, because in Emptiness one can fly just as one wishes; Hao, 'Devastation,'
changes people's joy to sadness. "The Emperor, irritated by this flippancy, was about to call
his guard, when suddenly a great devil appeared, wearing a tattered head-covering and a blue
robe, a horn clasp on his belt, and official boots on his feet. He went up to the sprite, tore
out one of his eyes, crushed it up, and ate it. The Emperor asked the newcomer who he was.
"Your humble servant," he replied, "is Chung K'uei, Physician of Tung-nan Shan in Shensi. In
the reign-period Wu Tê (A.D. 618-627) of the Emperor Kao Tsu of the T'ang dynasty I was ignominiously
rejected and unjustly defrauded of a first class in the public examinations. Overwhelmed with
shame, I committed suicide on the steps of the imperial palace. The Emperor ordered me to be
buried in a green robe [reserved for members of the imperial clan], and out of gratitude for
that favour I swore to protect the sovereign in any part of the Empire against the evil machinations
of the demon Hsü Hao." At these words the Emperor awoke and found that the fever had left him.
His Majesty called for Wu Tao-tzu (one of the most celebrated Chinese artists) to paint the
portrait of the person he had seen in his dream. The work was so well done that the Emperor
recognized it as the actual demon he had seen in his sleep, and rewarded the artist with a
hundred taels of gold. The portrait is said to have been still in the imperial palace during
the Sung dynasty.

Another version of the legend says that Chung K'uefs essay was recognized by the examiners
as equal to the work of the best authors of antiquity, but that the Emperor rejected him on
account of his extremely ugly features, whereupon he committed suicide in his presence, was
honoured by the Emperor and accorded a funeral as if he had been the successful first candidate,
and canonized with the title of Great Spiritual Chaser of Demons for the Whole Empire.

CHAPTER X

The Goddess of Mercy

The Guardian Angel of Buddhism

As Mary is the guiding spirit of Rome, so is Kuan Yin of the Buddhist faith.

According to a beautiful Chinese legend, Kuan Yin. when about to enter Heaven, heard a cry
of anguish rising from the earth beneath her, and, moved by pity, paused as her feet touched
the glorious threshold. Hence her name 'Kuan (Shih) Yin' (one who notices or hears the cry,
or prayer, of the world).

Kuan Yin was at one time always represented as a man; but in the T'ang dynasty and Five Dynasties
we find him represented as a woman, and he has been generally, though not invariably, so represented
since that time.

In old Buddhism Shâkyamuni was the chief god, and in many temples he still nominally occupies
the seat of honour, but he is completely eclipsed by the God or Goddess of Mercy.

"The men love her, the children adore her, and the women chant her prayers. Whatever the temple
may be, there is nearly always a chapel for Kuan Yin within its precincts; she lives in many
homes, and in many, many hearts she sits enshrined. She is the patron goddess of mothers, and
when we remember the relative value of a son in Chinese estimation we can appreciate the heartiness
of the worship. She protects in sorrow, and so millions of times the prayer is offered, 'Great
mercy, great pity, save from sorrow, save from suffering,' or, as it is in the books, 'Great
mercy, great pity, save from misery, save from evil, broad, great, efficacious, responsive
Kuan Yin Buddha,' She saves the tempest-tossed sailor, and so has eclipsed the Empress of Heaven,
who, as the female Neptune, is the patroness of seamen; in drought the mandarins worship the
Dragon and the Pearly Emperor, but if they fail the bronze Goddess of Mercy from the hills
brings rain. Other gods are feared, she is loved; others have black, scornful faces, her countenance
is radiant as gold, and gentle as the moon-beam; she draws near to the people and the people
draw near to her. Her throne is upon the Isle of Pootoo [P'u T'o], to which she came floating
upon a water-lily. She is the model of Chinese beauty, and to say a lady or a little girl is
a 'Kuan Yin' is the highest compliment that can be paid to grace and loveliness. She is fortunate
in having three birthdays, the nineteenth of the second, sixth, and ninth moons." There are
many metamorphoses of this goddess.

The Buddhist Saviour

"She is called Kuan Yin because at any cry of misery she 'hears the voice and removes the sorrow.'
Her appellation is 'Taking-away-fear Buddha,' If in the midst of the fire the name of Kuan
Yin is called, the fire cannot burn; if tossed by mountain billows, call her name, and shallow
waters will be reached. If merchants go across the sea seeking gold, silver, pearls, and precious
stones, and a storm comes up and threatens to carry the crew to the evil devil's kingdom, if
one on board calls on the name of Kuan Yin, the ship will be saved. If one goes into a conflict
and calls on the name of Kuan Yin, the sword and spear of the enemy fall harmless. If the three
thousand great kingdoms are visited by demons, call on her name, and these demons cannot with
an evil eye look on a man. If, within, you have evil thoughts, only call on Kuan Yin, and your
heart will be purified, Anger and wrath may be dispelled by calling on the name of Kuan Yin.
A lunatic who prays to Kuan Yin will become sane. Kuan Yin gives sons to mothers, and if the
mother asks for a daughter she will be beautiful. Two men--one chanting the names of the 6,200,000
Buddhas, in number like the sands of the Ganges, and the other simply calling on Kuan Yin--have
equal merit. Kuan Yin may take the form of a Buddha, a prince, a priest, a nun, a scholar,
any form or shape, go to any kingdom, and preach the law throughout the earth."

Miao Chuang desires an Heir

In the twenty-first year of the reign of Ta Hao, the Great Great One, of the Golden Heavenly
Dynasty, a man named P'o Chia, whose first name was Lo Yü, an enterprising kinglet of Hsi Yii,
seized the throne for twenty years, after carrying on a war for a space of three years. His
kingdom was known as Hsing Lin, and the title of his reign as Miao Chuang.

The kingdom of Hsing Lin was, so says the Chinese writer, situated between India on the west,
the kingdom of T'ien Cheng on the south, and the kingdom of Siam on the north, and was 3000
li in length. The boundaries differ according to different authors. Of this kingdom the two
pillars of State were the Grand Minister Chao Chen and the General Ch'u Chieh. The Queen Pao
Tê, whose maiden name was Po Ya, and the King Miao Chuang had lived nearly half a century without
having any male issue to succeed to the throne. This was a source of great grief to them. Po
Ya suggested to the King that the God of Hua Shan, the sacred mountain in the west, had the
reputation of being always willing to help; and that if he prayed to him and asked his pardon
for having shed so much blood during the wars which preceded his accession to the throne he
might obtain an heir.

Welcoming this suggestion, the King sent for Chao Chên and ordered him to dispatch to the temple
of Hua Shan the two Chief Ministers of Ceremonies, Hsi Hêng-nan and Chih Tu, with instructions
to request fifty Buddhist and Taoist priests to pray for seven days and seven nights in order
that the King might obtain a son. When that period was over, the King and Queen would go in
person to offer sacrifices in the temple.

Prayers to the Gods

The envoys took with them many rare and valuable presents, and for seven days and seven nights
the temple resounded with the sound of drums, bells, and all kinds of instruments, intermingled
with the voices of the praying priests. On their arrival the King and Queen offered sacrifices
to the god of the sacred mountain.

But the God of Hua Shan knew that the King had been deprived of a male heir as a punishment
for the bloody hecatombs during his three years' war. The priests, however, interceded for
him, urging that the King had come in person to offer the sacrifices, wherefore the God could
not altogether reject his prayer.

The two messengers shortly returned, and stated that in India, in the Chiu Ling Mountains,
in the village of Chih-shu Yüan, there lived a good man named Shih Ch'in-ch'ang, whose ancestors
for three generations had observed all the ascetic rules of the Buddhists. This man was the
father of three children, the eldest Shih Wên, the second Shih Chin, and the third Shih Shan,
all worthy followers of the great Buddha.

The Murder of the Tais

Wang Chê, a brigand chief, and thirty of his followers, finding themselves pursued and harassed
by the Indian soldiers, without provisions or shelter, dying of hunger, went to Shih Wên and
begged for something to eat. Knowing that they were evildoers, Shih Wên and his two brothers
refused to give them anything; if they starved, they said, the peasants would no longer suffer
from their depredations. Thereupon the brigands decided that it was a case of life for life,
and broke into the house of a rich family of the name of Tai, burning their home, killing a
hundred men, women, and children, and carrying off everything they possessed.

The local t'u-ti at once made a report to Yü Huang.

"This Shih family," replied the god, "for three generations has given itself up to good works,
and certainly the brigands were not deserving of any pity. However, it is impossible to deny
that the three brothers Shih, in refusing them food, morally compelled them to loot the Tai
family's house, putting all to the sword or flames. Is not this the same as if they had committed
the crime themselves? Let them be arrested and put in chains in the celestial prison, and let
them never see the light of the sun again."

"Since," said the messenger to the God of Hua Shan, "your gratitude toward Miao Chuang compels
you to grant him an heir, why not ask Yü Huang to pardon their crime and reincarnate them in
the womb of the Queen Po Ya, so that they may begin a new terrestrial existence and give themselves
up to good works?" As a result, the God of Hua Shan called the Spirit of the Wind and gave
him a message for Yü Huang.

A Message for Yü Huang

The message was as follows: "King Miao Chuang has offered sacrifice to me and begged me to
grant him an heir. But since by his wars he has caused the deaths of a large number of human
beings, he does not deserve to have his request granted. Now these three brothers Shih have
offended your Majesty by constraining the brigand Wang Che to be guilty of murder and robbery.
I pray you to take into account their past good works and pardon their crime, giving them an
opportunity of expiating it by causing them all three to be reborn, but of the female sex,
in the womb of Po Ya the Queen. [30] In this way they will be able to atone for their crime
and save many souls." Yü Huang was pleased to comply, and he ordered the Spirit of the North
Pole to release the three captives and take their souls to the palace of King Miao Chuang,
where in three years' time they would be changed into females in the womb of Queen Po Ya.

Birth of the Three Daughters

The King, who was anxiously expecting day by day the birth of an heir, was informed one morning
that a daughter had been born to him. She was named Miao Ch'ing. A year went by, and another
daughter was born. This one was named Miao Yin. When, at the end of the third year, another
daughter was born, the King, beside himself with rage, called his Grand Minister Chao Chên
and, all disconsolate, said to him, "I am past fifty, and have no male child to succeed me
on the throne. My dynasty will therefore become extinct. Of what use have been all my labours
and all my victories?" Chao Chen tried to console him, saying, "Heaven has granted you three
daughters: no human power can change this divine decree. When these princesses have grown up,
we will choose three sons-in-law for your Majesty, and you can elect your successor from among
them. Who will dare to dispute his right to the throne?"

The King named the third daughter Miao Shan. She became noted for her modesty and many other
good qualities, and scrupulously observed all the tenets of the Buddhist doctrines. Virtuous
living seemed, indeed, to be to her a second nature.

Miao Shan's Ambition

One day, when the three sisters were playing in the palace garden of Perpetual Spring, Miao
Shan, with a serious mien, said to her sisters, "Riches and glory are like the rain in spring
or the morning dew; a little while, and all is gone. Kings and emperors think to enjoy to the
end the good fortune which places them in a rank apart from other human beings; but sickness
lays them low in their coffins, and all is over. Where are now all those powerful dynasties
which have laid down the law to the world? As for me, I desire nothing more than a peaceful
retreat on a lone mountain, there to attempt the attainment of perfection. If some day I can
reach a high degree of goodness, then, borne on the clouds of Heaven, I will travel throughout
the universe, passing in the twinkling of an eye from east to west. I will rescue my father
and mother, and bring them to Heaven; I will save the miserable and afflicted on earth; I will
convert the spirits which do evil, and cause them to do good. That is my only ambition."

Her Sisters Marry

No sooner had she finished speaking than a lady of the Court came to announce that the King
had found sons-in-law to his liking for his two elder daughters. The wedding-feast was to be
the very next day. "Be quick," she added, "and prepare your presents, your dresses, and so
forth, for the King's order is imperative." The husband chosen for Miao Ch'ing was a First
Academician named Chao K'uei. His personal name was Tê Ta, and he was the son of a celebrated
minister of the reigning dynasty. Miao Yin's husband-elect was a military officer named Ho
Fêng, whose personal name was Ch'ao Yang. He had passed first in the examination for the Military
Doctorate. The marriage ceremonies were of a magnificent character. Festivity followed festivity;
the newly-wed were duly installed in their palaces, and general happiness prevailed.

Miao Shan's Renunciation

There now remained only Miao Shan. The King and Queen wished to find for her a man famous for
knowledge and virtue, capable of ruling the kingdom, and worthy of being the successor to the
throne. So the King called her and explained to her all his plans regarding her, and how all
his hopes rested on her.

"It is a crime," she replied, "for me not to comply with my father's wishes; but you must pardon
me if my ideas differ from yours."

"Tell me what your ideas are," said the King.

"I do not wish to marry," she rejoined. "I wish to attain to perfection and to Buddhahood.
Then I promise that I will not be ungrateful to you."

"Wretch of a daughter," cried the King in anger, "you think you can teach me, the head of the
State and ruler of so great a people! Has anyone ever known a daughter of a king become a nun?
Can a good woman be found in that class? Put aside all these mad ideas of a nunnery, and tell
me at once if you will marry a First Academician or a Military First Graduate."

"Who is there," answered the girl, "who does not love the royal dignity?--what person who does
not aspire to the happiness of marriage? However, I wish to become a nun. With respect to the
riches and glory of this world, my heart is as cold as a dead cinder, and I feel a keen desire
to make it ever purer and purer."

The King rose in fury, and wished to cast her out from his presence. Miao Shan, knowing she
could not openly disobey his orders, took another course. "If you absolutely insist upon my
marrying," she said, "I will consent; only I must marry a physician."

"A physician!" growled the King. "Are men of good family and talents wanting in my kingdom?
What an absurd idea, to want to marry a physician!"

"My wish is," said Miao Shan, "to heal humanity of all its ills; of cold, heat, lust, old age,
and all infirmities. I wish to equalize all classes, putting rich and poor on the same footing,
to have community of goods, without distinction of persons. If you will grant me my wish, I
can still in this way become a Buddha, a Saviour of Mankind. There is no necessity to call
in the diviners to choose an auspicious day. I am ready to be married now."

She is Exiled to the Garden

At these words the King was mad with rage. "Wicked imbecile!" he cried, "what diabolical suggestions
are these that you dare to make in my presence?"

Without further ado he called Ho T'ao, who on that day was officer of the palace guard. When
he had arrived and kneeled to receive the King's commands, the latter said: "This wicked nun
dishonours me. Take from her her Court robes, and drive her from my presence. Take her to the
Queen's garden, and let her perish there of cold: that will be one care less for my troubled
heart."

Miao Shan fell on her face and thanked the King, and then went with the officer to the Queen's
garden, where she began to lead her retired hermit life, with the moon for companion and the
wind for friend, content to see all obstacles overthrown on her way to Nirvana, the highest
state of spiritual bliss, and glad to exchange the pleasures of the palace for the sweetness
of solitude.

The Nunnery of the White Bird

After futile attempts to dissuade her from her purpose by the Court ladies, her parents, and
sisters, the King and Queen next deputed Miao Hung and Ts'ui Hung to make a last attempt to
bring their misguided daughter to her senses. Miao Shan, annoyed at this renewed solicitation,
in a haughty manner ordered them never again to come and torment her with their silly prattle.
"I have found out," she added, "that there is a well-known temple at Ju Chou in Lung-shu Hsien.
This Buddhist temple is known as the Nunnery of the White Bird, Po-ch'iao Ch'an-ssu. In it
five hundred nuns give themselves up to the study of the true doctrine and the way of perfection.
Go then and ask the Queen on my behalf to obtain the King's permission for me to retire thither.
If you can procure me this favour, I will not fail to reward you later."

Miao Chuang summoned the messengers and inquired the result of their efforts. "She is more
unapproachable than ever," they replied; "she has even ordered us to ask the Queen to obtain
your Majesty's permission to retire to the Nunnery of the White Bird in Lung-shu Hsien."

The King gave his permission, but sent strict orders to the nunnery, instructing the nuns to
do all in their power to dissuade the Princess when she arrived from carrying out her intention
to remain.

Her Reception at the Nunnery

This Nunnery of the White Bird had been built by Huang Ti, and the five hundred nuns who lived
in it had as Superior a lady named I Yu, who was remarkable for her virtue. On receipt of the
royal mandate, she had summoned Chêng Chêng-ch'ang, the choir-mistress, and informed her that
Princess Miao Shan, owing to a disagreement with her father, would shortly arrive at the temple.
She requested her to receive the visitor courteously, but at the same time to do all she could
to dissuade her from adopting the life of a nun. Having given these instructions, the Superior,
accompanied by two novices, went to meet Miao Shan at the gate of the temple. On her arrival
they saluted her. The Princess returned the salute, but said: "I have just left the world in
order to place myself under your orders: why do you come and salute me on my arrival? I beg
you to be so good as to take me into the temple, in order that I may pay my respects to the
Buddha." I Yu led her into the principal hall, and instructed the nuns to light incense-sticks,
ring the bells, and beat the drums. The visit to the temple finished, she went into the preaching-hall,
where she greeted her instructresses. The latter obeyed the King's command and endeavoured
to persuade the Princess to return to her home, but, as none of their arguments had any effect,
it was at length decided to give her a trial, and to put her in charge of the kitchen, where
she could prepare the food for the nunnery, and generally be at the service of all. If she
did not give satisfaction they could dismiss her.

She makes Offering to the Buddha

Miao Shan joyfully agreed, and proceeded to make her humble submission to the Buddha. She knelt
before Ju Lai, and made offering to him, praying as follows: "Great Buddha, full of goodness
and mercy, your humble servant wishes to leave the world. Grant that I may never yield to the
temptations which will be sent to try my faith." Miao Shan further promised to observe all
the regulations of the nunnery and to obey the superiors.

Spiritual Aid

This generous self-sacrifice touched the heart of Yü Huang, the Master of Heaven, who summoned
the Spirit of the North Star and instructed him as follows: "Miao Shan, the third daughter
of King Miao Chuang, has renounced the world in order to devote herself to the attainment of
perfection. Her father has consigned her to the Nunnery of the White Bird. She has undertaken
without grumbling the burden of all the work in the nunnery. If she is left without help, who
is there who will be willing to adopt the virtuous life? Do you go quickly and order the Three
Agents, the Gods of the Five Sacred Peaks, the Eight Ministers of the Heavenly Dragon, Ch'ieh
Lan, and the t'u-ti to send her help at once. Tell the Sea-dragon to dig her a well near the
kitchen, a tiger to bring her firewood, birds to collect vegetables for the inmates of the
nunnery, and all the spirits of Heaven to help her in her duties, that she may give herself
up without disturbance to the pursuit of perfection. See that my commands are promptly obeyed."
The Spirit of the North Star complied without delay.

The Nunnery on Fire

Seeing all these gods arrive to help the novice, the Superior, I Yu, held consultation with
the choir-mistress, saying: "We assigned to the Princess the burdensome work of the kitchen
because she refused to return to the world; but since she has entered on her duties the gods
of the eight caves of Heaven have come to offer her fruit, Ch'ieh Lan sweeps the kitchen, the
dragon has dug a well, the God of the Hearth and the tiger bring her fuel, birds collect vegetables
for her, the nunnery bell every evening at dusk booms of itself, as if struck by some mysterious
hand. Obviously miracles are being performed. Hasten and fetch the King, and beg his Majesty
to recall his daughter."

Chêng Chêng-ch'ang started on her way, and, on arrival, informed the King of all that had taken
place. The King called Hu Pi-li, the chief of the guard, and ordered him to go to the sub-prefecture
of Lung-shu Hsien at the head of an army corps of 5000 infantry and cavalry. He was to surround
the Nunnery of the White Bird and burn it to the ground, together with the nuns. When he reached
the place the commander surrounded the nunnery with his soldiers, and set fire to it. The five
hundred doomed nuns invoked the aid of Heaven and earth, and then, addressing Miao Shan, said:
"It is you who have brought upon us this terrible disaster."

"It is true," said Miao Shan. "I alone am the cause of your destruction." She then knelt down
and prayed to Heaven: "Great Sovereign of the Universe, your servant is the daughter of King
Miao Chuang; you are the grandson of King Lun. Will you not rescue your younger sister? You
have left your palace; I also have left mine. You in former times betook yourself to the snowy
mountains to attain perfection; I came here with the same object. Will you not save us from
this fiery destruction?"

Her prayer ended, Miao Shan took a bamboo hairpin from her hair, pricked the roof of her mouth
with it, and spat the flowing blood toward Heaven. Immediately great clouds gathered in all
parts of the sky and sent down inundating showers, which put out the fire that threatened the
nunnery. The nuns threw themselves on their knees and thanked her effusively for having saved
their lives.

Hu Pi-li retired, and went in haste to inform the King of this extraordinary occurrence. The
King, enraged, ordered him to go back at once, bring his daughter in chains, and behead her
on the spot.

The Execution of Miao Shan

But the Queen, who had heard of this new plot, begged the King to grant her daughter a last
chance. "If you will give permission," she said, "I will have a magnificent pavilion built
at the side of the road where Miao Shan will pass in chains on the way to her execution, and
will go there with our two other daughters and our sons-in-law. As she passes we will have
music, songs, feasting, everything likely to impress her and make her contrast our luxurious
life with her miserable plight. This will surely bring her to repentance."

"I agree," said the King, "to counter-order her execution until your preparations are complete."
Nevertheless, when the time came, Miao Shan showed nothing but disdain for all this worldly
show, and to all advances replied only: "I love not these pompous vanities; I swear that I
prefer death to the so-called joys of this world." She was then led to the place of execution.
All the Court was present. Sacrifices were made to her as to one already dead. A Grand Minister
pronounced the sacrificial oration.

In the midst of all this the Queen appeared, and ordered the officials to return to their posts,
that she might once more exhort her daughter to repent. But Miao Shan only listened in silence
with downcast eyes.

The King felt great repugnance to shedding his daughter's blood, and ordered her to be imprisoned
in the palace, in order that he might make a last effort to save her. "I am the King," he said;
"my orders cannot be lightly set aside. Disobedience to them involves punishment, and in spite
of my paternal love for you, if you persist in your present attitude, you will be executed
to-morrow in front of the palace gate."

The t'u-ti, hearing the King's verdict, went with all speed to Yü Huang, and reported to him
the sentence which had been pronounced against Miao Shan. Yü Huang exclaimed: "Save Buddha,
there is none in the west so noble as this Princess. To-morrow, at the appointed hour, go to
the scene of execution, break the swords, and splinter the lances they will use to kill her.
See that she suffers no pain. At the moment of her death transform yourself into a tiger, and
bring her body to the pine-wood. Having deposited it in a safe place, put a magic pill in her
mouth to arrest decay. Her triumphant soul on its return from the lower regions must find it
in a perfect state of preservation in order to be able to re-enter it and animate it afresh.
After that, she must betake herself to Hsiang Shan on P'u T'o Island, where she will reach
the highest state of perfection."

On the day appointed, Commander Hu Pi-li led the condemned Princess to the place of execution.
A body of troops had been stationed there to maintain order. The t'u-ti was in attendance at
the palace gates. Miao Shan was radiant with joy. "To-day," she said, "I leave the world for
a better life. Hasten to take my life, but beware of mutilating my body."

The King's warrant arrived, and suddenly the sky became overcast and darkness fell upon the
earth. A bright light surrounded Miao Shan, and when the sword of the executioner fell upon
the neck of the victim it was broken in two. Then they thrust at her with a spear, but the
weapon fell to pieces. After that the King ordered that she be strangled with a silken cord.
A few moments later a tiger leapt into the execution ground, dispersed the executioners, put
the inanimate body of Miao Shan on his back, and disappeared into the pine-forest. Hu Pi-li
rushed to the palace, recounted to the King full details of all that had occurred, and received
a reward of two ingots of gold.

Miao Shan visits the Infernal Regions

Meantime, Miao Shan's soul, which remained unhurt, was borne on a cloud; when, waking as from
a dream, she lifted her head and looked round, she could not see her body. "My father has just
had me strangled," she sighed. "How is it that I find myself in this place? Here are neither
mountains, nor trees, nor vegetation; no sun, moon, nor stars; no habitation, no sound, no
cackling of a fowl nor barking of a dog. How can I live in this desolate region?"

Suddenly a young man dressed in blue, shining with a brilliant light, and carrying a large
banner, appeared and said to her: "By order of Yen Wang, the King of the Hells, I come to take
you to the eighteen infernal regions."

"What is this cursed place where I am now?" asked Miao Shan.

"This is the lower world, Hell," he replied. "Your refusal to marry, and the magnanimity with
which you chose an ignominious death rather than break your resolutions, deserve the recognition
of Yü Huang, and the ten gods of the lower regions, impressed and pleased at your eminent virtue,
have sent me to you. Fear nothing and follow me."

Thus Miao Shan began her visit to all the infernal regions. The Gods of the Ten Hells came
to congratulate her.

"Who am I," asked Miao Shan, "that you should deign to take the trouble to show me such respect?"

"We have heard," they replied, "that when you recite your prayers all evil disappears as if
by magic. We should like to hear you pray."

"I consent," replied Miao Shan, "on condition that all the condemned ones in the ten infernal
regions be released from their chains in order to listen to me."

At the appointed time the condemned were led in by Niu T'ou ('Ox-head') and Ma Mien ('Horse-face'),
the two chief constables of Hell, and Miao Shan began her prayers. No sooner had she finished
than Hell was suddenly transformed into a paradise of joy, and the instruments of torture into
lotus-flowers.

Hell a Paradise

P'an Kuan, the keeper of the Register of the Living and the Dead, presented a memorial to Yen
Wang stating that since Miao Shan's arrival there was no more pain in Hell; and all the condemned
were beside themselves with happiness. "Since it has always been decreed," he added, "that,
in justice, there must be both a Heaven and a Hell, if you do not send this saint back to earth,
there will no longer be any Hell, but only a Heaven."

"Since that is so," said Yen Wang, "let forty-eight flag-bearers escort her across the Styx
Bridge [Nai-ho Ch'iao], that she may be taken to the pine-forest to reenter her body, and resume
her life in the upper world."

The King of the Hells having paid his respects to her, the youth in blue conducted her soul
back to her body, which she found lying under a pine-tree. Having reentered it, Miao Shan found
herself alive again. A bitter sigh escaped from her lips. "I remember," she said, "all that
I saw and heard in Hell. I sigh for the moment which will find me free of all impediments,
and yet my soul has re-entered my body. Here, without any lonely mountain on which to give
myself up to the pursuit of perfection, what will become of me?" Great tears welled from her eyes.

A Test of Virtue

Just then Ju Lai Buddha appeared. "Why have you come to this place?" he asked. Miao Shan explained
why the King had put her to death, and how after her descent into Hell her soul had re-entered
her body. "I greatly pity your misfortune," Ju Lai said, "but there is no one to help you.
I also am alone. Why should we not marry? We could build ourselves a hut, and pass our days
in peace. What say you?" "Sir," she replied, "you must not make impossible suggestions. I died
and came to life again. How can you speak so lightly? Do me the pleasure of withdrawing from
my presence."

"Well," said the visitor, "he to whom you are speaking is no other than the Buddha of the West.
I came to test your virtue. This place is not suitable for your devotional exercises; I invite
you to come to Hsiang Shan."

Miao Shan threw herself on her knees and said: "My bodily eyes deceived me. I never thought
that your Majesty would come to a place like this. Pardon my seeming want of respect. Where
is this Hsiang Shan?"

"Hsiang Shan is a very old monastery," Ju Lai replied, "built in the earliest historical times.
It is inhabited by Immortals. It is situated in the sea, on P'u T'o Island, a dependency of
the kingdom of Annam. There you will be able to reach the highest perfection."

"How far off is this island?" Miao Shan asked. "More than three thousand li," Ju Lai replied.
"I fear," she said, "I could not bear the fatigue of so long a journey." "Calm yourself," he
rejoined. "I have brought with me a magic peach, of a kind not to be found in any earthly orchard.
Once you have eaten it, you will experience neither hunger nor thirst; old age and death will
have no power over you: you will live for ever."

Miao Shan ate the magic peach, took leave of Ju Lai, and started on the way to Hsiang Shan.
From the clouds the Spirit of the North Star saw her wending her way painfully toward P'u T'o.
He called the Guardian of the Soil of Hsiang Shan and said to him: "Miao Shan is on her way
to your country; the way is long and difficult. Do you take the form of a tiger, and carry
her to her journey's end."

The t'u-ti transformed himself into a tiger and stationed himself in the middle of the road
along which Miao Shan must pass, giving vent to ferocious roars.

"I am a poor girl devoid of filial piety," said Miao Shan when she came up. "I have disobeyed
my father's commands; devour me, and make an end of me."

The tiger then spoke, saying: "I am not a real tiger, but the Guardian of the Soil of Hsiang
Shan. I have received instructions to carry you there. Get on my back."

"Since you have received these instructions," said the girl, "I will obey, and when I have
attained to perfection I will not forget your kindness."

The tiger went off like a flash of lightning, and in the twinkling of an eye Miao Shan found
herself at the foot of the rocky slopes of P'u T'o Island.

Miao Shan attains to Perfection

After nine years in this retreat Miao Shan had reached the acme of perfection. Ti-tsang Wang
then came to Hsiang Shan, and was so astonished at her virtue that he inquired of the local
t'u-ti as to what had brought about this wonderful result. "With the exception of Ju Lai, in
all the west no one equals her in dignity and perfection. She is the Queen of the three thousand
P'u-sa's and of all the beings on earth who have skin and blood. We regard her as our sovereign
in all things. Therefore, on the nineteenth day of the eleventh moon we will enthrone her,
that the whole world may profit by her beneficence."

The t'u-ti sent out his invitations for the ceremony. The Dragon-king of the Western Sea, the
Gods of the Five Sacred Mountains, the Emperor-saints to the number of one hundred and twenty,
the thirty-six officials of the Ministry of Time, the celestial functionaries in charge of
wind, rain, thunder, and lightning, the Three Causes, the Five Saints, the Eight Immortals,
the Ten Kings of the Hells--all were present on the appointed day. Miao Shan took her seat
on the lotus-throne, and the assembled gods proclaimed her sovereign of Heaven and earth, and
a Buddha. Moreover, they decided that it was not meet that she should remain alone at Hsiang
Shan; so they begged her to choose a worthy young man and a virtuous damsel to serve her in
the temple.

The t'u-ti was entrusted with the task of finding them. While making search, he met a young
priest named Shan Ts'ai. After the death of his parents he had become a hermit on Ta-hua Shan,
and was still a novice in the science of perfection.

Miao Shan ordered him to be brought to her. "Who are you?" she asked.

"I am a poor orphan priest of no merit," he replied. "From my earliest youth I have led the
life of a hermit. I have been told that your power is equalled only by your goodness, so I
have ventured to come to pray you to show me how to attain to perfection."

"My only fear," replied Miao Shan, "is that your desire for perfection may not be sincere."

"I have now no parents," the priest continued, "and I have come more than a thousand li to
find you. How can I be wanting in sincerity?"

"What special degree of ability have you attained during your course of perfection?" asked
Miao Shan.

"I have no skill," replied Shan Ts'ai, "but I rely for everything on your great pity, and under
your guidance I hope to reach the required ability."

"Very well," said Miao Shan, "take up your station on the top of yonder peak, and wait till
I find a means of transporting you."

A Ruse

Miao Shan called the t'u-ti and bade him go and beg all the Immortals to disguise themselves
as pirates and to besiege the mountain, waving torches, and threatening with swords and spears
to kill her. "Then I will seek refuge on the summit, and thence leap over the precipice to
prove Shan Ts'ai's fidelity and affection."

A minute later a horde of brigands of ferocious aspect rushed up to the temple of Hsiang Shan.
Miao Shan cried for help, rushed up the steep incline, missed her footing, and rolled down
into the ravine. Shan Ts'ai, seeing her fall into the abyss, without hesitation flung himself
after her in order to rescue her. When he reached her, he asked: "What have you to fear from
the robbers? You have nothing for them to steal; why throw yourself over the precipice, exposing
yourself to certain death?"

Miao Shan saw that he was weeping, and wept too. "I must comply with the wish of Heaven," she said.

The Transformation of Shan Ts'ai

Shan Ts'ai, inconsolable, prayed Heaven and earth to save his protectress. Miao Shan said to
him: "You should not have risked your life by throwing yourself over the precipice, I have
not yet transformed you. But you did a brave thing, and I know that you have a good heart.
Now, look down there." "Oh," said he, "if I mistake not, that is a corpse." "Yes," she replied,
"that is your former body. Now you are transformed you can rise at will and fly in the air."
Shan Ts'ai bowed low to thank his benefactress, who said to him: "Henceforth you must say your
prayers by my side, and not leave me for a single day."

'Brother and Sister'

With her spiritual sight Miao Shan perceived at the bottom of the Southern Sea the third son
of Lung Wang, who, in carrying out his father's orders, was cleaving the waves in the form
of a carp. While doing so, he was caught in a fisherman's net, taken to the market at Yüeh
Chou, and offered for sale. Miao Shan at once sent her faithful Shan Ts'ai, in the guise of
a servant, to buy him, giving him a thousand cash to purchase the fish, which he was to take
to the foot of the rocks at P'u T'o and set free in the sea. The son of Lung Wang heartily
thanked his deliverer, and on his return to the palace related to his father what had occurred.
The King said: "As a reward, make her a present of a luminous pearl, so that she may recite
her prayers by its light at night-time."

Lung Nü, the daughter of Lung Wang's third son, obtained her grandfather's permission to take
the gift to Miao Shan and beg that she might be allowed to study the doctrine of the sages
under her guidance. After having proved her sincerity, she was accepted as a pupil. Shan Ts'ai
called her his sister, and Lung Nü reciprocated by calling him her dear brother. Both lived
as brother and sister by Miao Shan's side.

The King's Punishment

After King Miao Chuang had burned the Nunnery of the White Bird and killed his daughter, Ch'ieh
Lan Buddha presented a petition to Yü Huang praying that the crime be not allowed to go unpunished.
Yü Huang, justly irritated, ordered P'an Kuan to consult the Register of the Living and the
Dead to see how long this homicidal King had yet to live. P'an Kuan turned over the pages of
his register, and saw that according to the divine ordinances the King's reign on the throne
of Hsing Lin should last for twenty years, but that this period had not yet expired. [31] "That
which has been decreed is immutable," said Yü Huang, "but I will punish him by sending him
illness." He called the God of Epidemics, and ordered him to afflict the King's body with ulcers,
of a kind which could not be healed except by remedies to be given him by his daughter Miao Shan.

The order was promptly executed, and the King could get no rest by day or by night. His two
daughters and their husbands spent their time in feasting while he tossed about in agony on
his sick-bed. In vain the most famous physicians were called in; the malady only grew worse,
and despair took hold of the patient. He then caused a proclamation to be made that he would
grant the succession to the throne to any person who would provide him with an effectual remedy
to restore him to health.

The Disguised Priest-doctor

Miao Shan had learnt by revelation at Hsiang Shan all that was taking place at the palace.
She assumed the form of a priest-doctor, clothed herself in a priest's gown, with the regulation
headdress and straw shoes, and attached to her girdle a gourd containing pills and other medicines.
In this apparel she went straight to the palace gate, read the royal edict posted there, and
tore it down. Some members of the palace guard seized her, and inquired angrily: "Who are you
that you should dare to tear down the royal proclamation?"

"I, a poor priest, am also a doctor," she replied. "I read the edict posted on the palace gates.
The King is inquiring for a doctor who can heal him. I am a doctor of an old cultured family,
and propose to restore him to health."

"If you are of a cultured family, why did you become a priest?" they asked. "Would it not have
been better to gain your living honestly in practising your art than to shave your head and
go loafing about the world? Besides, all the highest physicians have tried in vain to cure
the King; do you imagine that you will be more skilful than all the aged practitioners?"

"Set your minds at ease," she replied. "I have received from my ancestors the most efficacious
remedies, and I guarantee that I shall restore the King to health," The palace guard then consented
to transmit her petition to the Queen, who informed the King, and in the end the pretended
priest was admitted. Having reached the royal bed-chamber, he sat still awhile in order to
calm himself before feeling the pulse, and to have complete control of all his faculties while
examining the King. When he felt quite sure of himself, he approached the King's bed, took
the King's hand, felt his pulse, carefully diagnosed the nature of the illness, and assured
himself that it was easily curable.

Strange Medicine

One serious difficulty, however, presented itself, and that was that the right medicine was
almost impossible to procure. The King showed his displeasure by saying: "For every illness
there is a medical prescription, and for every prescription a specific medicine; how can you
say that the diagnosis is easy, but that there is no remedy?"

"Your Majesty," replied the priest, "the remedy for your illness is not to be found in any
pharmacy, and no one would agree to sell it."

The King became angry, believed that he was being imposed upon, and ordered those about him
to drive away the priest, who left smiling.

The following night the King saw in a dream an old man who said to him: "This priest alone
can cure your illness, and if you ask him he himself will give you the right remedy."

The King awoke as soon as these words had been uttered, and begged the Queen to recall the
priest. When the latter had returned, the King related his dream, and begged the priest to
procure for him the remedy required. "What, after all, is this remedy that I must have in order
to be cured?" he asked.

"There must be the hand and eye of a living person, from which to compound the ointment which
alone can save you," answered the priest.

The King called out in indignation: "This priest is fooling me! Who would ever give his hand
or his eye? Even if anyone would, I could never have the heart to make use of them."

"Nevertheless," said the priest, "there is no other effective remedy."

"Then where can I procure this remedy?" asked the King.

"Your Majesty must send your ministers, who must observe the Buddhist rules of abstinence,
to Hsiang Shan, where they will be given what is required."

"Where is Hsiang Shan, and how far from here?"

"About three thousand or more li, but I myself will indicate the route to be followed; in a
very short time they will return."

The King, who was suffering terribly, was more contented when he heard that the journey could
be rapidly accomplished. He called his two ministers, Chao Chên and Liu Ch'in, and instructed
them to lose no time in starting for Hsiang Shan and to observe scrupulously the Buddhist rules
of abstinence. He ordered the Minister of Ceremonies to detain the priest in the palace until
their return.

A Conspiracy that Failed

The two sons-in-law of the King, Ho Fêng and Chao K'uei, who had already made secret preparations
to succeed to the throne as soon as the King should breathe his last, learned with no little
surprise that the priest had hopes of curing the King's illness, and that he was waiting in
the palace until the saving remedy was brought to him. Fearing that they might be disappointed
in their ambition, and that after his recovery the King, faithful to his promise, would give
the crown to the priest, they entered into a conspiracy with an unscrupulous courtier named
Ho Li. They were obliged to act quickly, because the ministers were travelling by forced marches,
and would soon be back. That same night Ho Li was to give to the King a poisoned drink, composed,
he would say, by the priest with the object of assuaging the King's pain until the return of
his two ministers. Shortly after, an assassin, Su Ta, was to murder the priest. Thus at one
stroke both the King and the priest would meet their death, and the kingdom would pass to the
King's two sons-in-law.

Miao Shan had returned to Hsiang Shan, leaving in the palace the bodily form of the priest.
She saw the two traitors Ho Fêng and Chao K'uei preparing the poison, and was aware of their
wicked intentions. Calling the spirit Yu I, who was on duty that day, she told him to fly to
the palace and change into a harmless soup the poison about to be administered to the King
and to bind the assassin hand and foot.

At midnight Ho Li, carrying in his hand the poisoned drink, knocked at the door of the royal
apartment, and said to the Queen that the priest had prepared a soothing potion while awaiting
the return of the ministers. "I come," he said, "to offer it to his Majesty." The Queen took
the bowl in her hands and was about to give it to the King, when Yu I arrived unannounced.
Quick as thought he snatched the bowl from the Queen and poured the contents on the ground;
at the same moment he knocked over those present in the room, so that they all rolled on the floor.

At the time this was happening the assassin Su Ta entered the priest's room, and struck him
with his sword. Instantly the assassin, without knowing how, found himself enwrapped in the
priest's robe and thrown to the ground. He struggled and tried to free himself, but found that
his hands had been rendered useless by some mysterious power, and that flight was impossible.
The spirit Yu I, having fulfilled the mission entrusted to him, now returned to Hsiang Shan
and reported to Miao Shan.

A Confession and its Results

Next morning, the two sons-in-law of the King heard of the turn things had taken during the
night. The whole palace was in a state of the greatest confusion.

When he was informed that the priest had been killed, the King called Ch'u Ting-lieh and ordered
him to have the murderer arrested. Su Ta was put to the torture and confessed all that he knew.
Together with Ho Li he was condemned to be cut into a thousand pieces.

The two sons-in-law were seized and ordered to instant execution, and it was only on the Queen's
intercession that their wives were spared. The infuriated King, however, ordered that his two
daughters should be imprisoned in the palace.

The Gruesome Remedy

Meantime Chao Chên and Liu Ch'in had reached Hsiang Shan. When they were brought to Miao Shan
the ministers took out the King's letter and read it to her. "I, Miao Chuang, King of Hsing
Lin, have learned that there dwells at Hsiang Shan an Immortal whose power and compassion have
no equal in the whole world. I have passed my fiftieth year, and am afflicted with ulcers that
all remedies have failed to cure. To-day a priest has assured me that at Hsiang Shan I can
obtain the hand and eye of a living person, with which he will prepare an ointment able to
restore me to my usual state of health. Relying upon his word and upon the goodness of the
Immortal to whom he has directed me, I venture to beg that those two parts of a living body
necessary to heal my ulcers be sent to me. I assure you of my everlasting gratitude, fully
confident that my request will not be refused."

The next morning Miao Shan bade the ministers take a knife and cut off her left hand and gouge
out her left eye. Liu Ch'in took the knife offered him, but did not dare to obey the order.
"Be quick," urged the Immortal; "you have been commanded to return as soon as possible; why
do you hesitate as if you were a young girl?" Liu Ch'in was forced to proceed. He plunged in
the knife, and the red blood flooded the ground, spreading an odour like sweet incense. The
hand and eye were placed on a golden plate, and, having paid their grateful respects to the
Immortal, the envoys hastened to return.

When they had left, Miao Shan, who had transformed herself in order to allow the envoys to
remove her hand and eye, told Shan Ts'ai that she was now going to prepare the ointment necessary
for the cure of the King. "Should the Queen," she added, "send for another eye and hand, I
will transform myself again, and you can give them to her." No sooner had she finished speaking
than she mounted a cloud and disappeared in space. The two ministers reached the palace and
presented to the Queen the gruesome remedy which they had brought from the temple. She, overcome
with gratitude and emotion, wept copiously. "What Immortal," she asked, "can have been so charitable
as to sacrifice a hand and eye for the King's benefit?" Then suddenly her tears gushed forth
with redoubled vigour, and she uttered a great cry, for she recognized the hand of her daughter
by a black scar which was on it.

Half-measures

"Who else, in fact, but his child," she continued amid her sobs, "could have had the courage
to give her hand to save her father's life?" "What are you saying?" said the King. "In the
world there are many hands like this." While they thus reasoned, the priest entered the King's
apartment. "This great Immortal has long devoted herself to the attainment of perfection,"
he said. "Those she has healed are innumerable. Give me the hand and eye." He took them and
shortly produced an ointment which, he told the King, was to be applied to his left side. No
sooner had it touched his skin than the pain on his left side disappeared as if by magic; no
sign of ulcers was to be seen on that side, but his right side remained swollen and painful
as before.

"Why is it," asked the King, "that this remedy, which is so efficacious for the left side,
should not be applied to the right?" "Because," replied the priest, "the left hand and eye
of the saint cures only the left side. If you wish to be completely cured, you must send your
officers to obtain the right eye and right hand also." The King accordingly dispatched his
envoys anew with a letter of thanks, and begging as a further favour that the cure should be
completed by the healing also of his right side.

The King Cured

On the arrival of the envoys Shan Ts'ai met them in the mutilated form of Miao Shan, and he
bade them cut off his right hand, pluck out his right eye, and put them on a plate. At the
sight of the four bleeding wounds Liu Ch'in could not refrain from calling out indignantly:
"This priest is a wicked man, thus to make a martyr of a woman in order to obtain the succession!"

Having thus spoken, he left with his companion for the kingdom of Hsing Lin. On their return
the King was overwhelmed with joy. The priest quickly prepared the ointment, and the King,
without delay, applied it to his right side. At once the ulcers disappeared like the darkness
of night before the rising sun. The whole Court congratulated the King and eulogized the priest.
The King conferred upon the latter the title Priest of the Brilliant Eye. He fell on his face
to return thanks, and added: "I, a poor priest, have left the world, and have only one wish,
namely, that your Majesty should govern your subjects with justice and sympathy and that all
the officials of the realm should prove themselves men of integrity. As for me, I am used to
roaming about. I have no desire for any royal estate. My happiness exceeds all earthly joys."

Having thus spoken, the priest waved the sleeve of his cloak, a cloud descended from Heaven,
and seating himself upon it he disappeared in the sky. From the cloud a note containing the
following words was seen to fall: "I am one of the Teachers of the West. I came to cure the
King's illness, and so to glorify the True Doctrine."

The King's Daughter

All who witnessed this miracle exclaimed with one voice: "This priest is the Living Buddha,
who is going back to Heaven!" The note was taken to King Miao Chuang, who exclaimed: "Who am
I that I should deserve that one of the rulers of Heaven should deign to descend and cure me
by the sacrifice of hands and eyes?"

"What was the face of the saintly person like who gave you the remedy?" he then asked Chao Chên.

"It was like unto that of your deceased daughter, Miao Shan," he replied.

"When you removed her hands and eyes did she seem to suffer?"

"I saw a great flow of blood, and my heart failed, but the face of the victim seemed radiant
with happiness."

"This certainly must be my daughter Miao Shan, who has attained to perfection," said the King.
"Who but she would have given hands and eyes? Purify yourselves and observe the rules of abstinence,
and go quickly to Hsiang Shan to return thanks to the saint for this inestimable favour. I
myself will ere long make a pilgrimage thither to return thanks in person."

The King and Queen taken Prisoners

Three years later the King and Queen, with the grandees of their Court, set out to visit Hsiang
Shan, but on the way the monarchs were captured by the Green Lion, or God of Fire, and the
White Elephant, or Spirit of the Water, the two guardians of the Temple of Buddha, who transported
them to a dark cavern in the mountains. A terrific battle then took place between the evil
spirits on the one side and some hosts of heavenly genii, who had been summoned to the rescue,
on the other. While its issue was still uncertain, reinforcements under the Red Child Devil,
who could resist fire, and the Dragon-king of the Eastern Sea, who could subdue water, finally
routed the enemy, and the prisoners were released.

The King's Repentance

The King and Queen now resumed their pilgrimage, and Miao Shan instructed Shan Ts'ai to receive
the monarchs when they arrived to offer incense. She herself took up her place on the altar,
her eyes torn out, her hands cut off, and her wrists all dripping with blood. The King recognized
his daughter, and bitterly reproached himself; the Queen fell swooning at her feet. Miao Shan
then spoke and tried to comfort them. She told them of all that she had experienced since the
day when she had been executed, and how she had attained to immortal perfection. She then went
on: "In order to punish you for having caused the deaths of all those who perished in the wars
preceding your accession to the throne, and also to avenge the burning of the Nunnery of the
White Bird, Yü Huang afflicted you with those grievous ulcers. It was then that I changed myself
into a priest in order to heal you, and gave my eyes and hands, with which I prepared the ointment
that cured you. It was I, moreover, who procured your liberty from Buddha when you were imprisoned
in the cave by the Green Lion and the White Elephant."

Sackcloth and Ashes

At these words the King threw himself with his face on the ground, offered incense, worshipped
Heaven, earth, the sun, and the moon, saying with a voice broken by sobs: "I committed a great
crime in killing my daughter, who has sacrificed her eyes and hands in order to cure my sickness."

No sooner were these words uttered than Miao Shan reassumed her normal form, and, descending
from the altar, approached her parents and sisters. Her body had again its original completeness;
and in the presence of its perfect beauty, and at finding themselves reunited as one family,
all wept for joy.

"Well," said Miao Shan to her father, "will you now force me to marry and prevent my devoting
myself to the attainment of perfection?"

"Speak no more of that," replied the King. "I was in the wrong. If you had not reached perfection,
I should not now be alive. I have made up my mind to exchange my sceptre for the pursuit of
the perfect life, which I wish to lead henceforth together with you."

The King renounces the Throne

Then, in the presence of all, he addressed his Grand Minister Chao Chên, saying: "Your devotion
to the service of the State has rendered you worthy to wear the crown: I surrender it to you."
The Court proclaimed Chao Chên King of Hsing Lin, bade farewell to Miao Chuang, and set out
for their kingdom accompanied by their new sovereign.

Pardon of the Green Lion and the White Elephant

Buddha had summoned the White Elephant and the Green Lion, and was on the point of sentencing
them to eternal damnation when the compassionate Miao Shan interceded for them. "Certainly
you deserve no forgiveness," he said, "but I cannot refuse a request made by Miao Shan, whose
clemency is without limit. I give you over to her, to serve and obey her in everything. Follow
her."

Miao Shan becomes a Buddha

The guardian spirit on duty that day then announced the arrival of a messenger from Yü Huang.
It was T'ai-po Chin-hsing, who was the bearer of a divine decree, which he handed to Miao Shan.
It read as follows: "I, the august Emperor, make known to you this decree: Miao Chuang, King
of Hsing Lin, forgetful alike of Heaven and Hell, the six virtues, and metempsychosis, has
led a blameworthy life; but your nine years of penitence, the filial piety which caused you
to sacrifice your own body to effect his cure, in short, all your virtues, have redeemed his
faults. Your eyes can see and your ears can hear all the good and bad deeds and words of men.
You are the object of my especial regard. Therefore I make proclamation of this decree of canonization.

"Miao Shan will have the title of Very Merciful and Very Compassionate P'u-sa, Saviour of the
Afflicted, Miraculous and Always Helpful Protectress of Mortals. On your lofty precious lotus-flower
throne, you will be the Sovereign of the Southern Seas and of P'u T'o Isle.

"Your two sisters, hitherto tainted with earthly pleasures, will gradually progress till they
reach true perfection.

"Miao Ch'ing will have the title of Very Virtuous P'u-sa, the Completely Beautiful, Rider of
the Green Lion.

"Miao Yin will be honoured with the title of Very Virtuous and Completely Resplendent P'u-sa,
Rider of the White Elephant.

"King Miao Chuang is raised to the dignity of Virtuous Conquering P'u-sa, Surveyor of Mortals.

"Queen Po Ya receives the title of P'u-sa of Ten Thousand Virtues, Surveyor of Famous Women.

"Shan Ts'ai has bestowed upon him the title of Golden Youth.

"Lung Nü has the title of Jade Maiden.

"During all time incense is to be burned before all the members of this canonized group."

CHAPTER XI

The Eight Immortals

Pa Hsien

Either singly or in groups the Eight Immortals, Pa Hsien, of the Taoist religion are one of
the most popular subjects of representation in China; their portraits are to be seen everywhere--on
porcelain vases, teapots, teacups, fans, scrolls, embroidery, etc. Images of them are made
in porcelain, earthenware, roots, wood, metals. The term 'Eight Immortals' is figuratively
used for happiness. The number eight has become lucky in association with this tradition, and
persons or things eight in number are graced accordingly. Thus we read of reverence shown to
the 'Eight Genii Table' (Pa Hsien Cho), the 'Eight Genii Bridge' (Pa Hsien Ch'iao), 'Eight
Genii Vermicelli' (Pa Hsien Mien), the 'Eight Genii of the Wine-cup' (Tin Chung Pa Hsien)--wine-bibbers
of the T'ang dynasty celebrated by Tu Fu, the poet. They are favourite subjects of romance,
and special objects of adoration. In them we see "the embodiment of the ideas of perfect but
imaginary happiness which possess the minds of the Chinese people." Three of them (Chung-li
Ch'üan, Chang Kuo, and Lü Yen) were historical personages; the others are mentioned only in
fables or romances. They represent all kinds of people--old, young, male, female, civil, military,
rich, poor, afflicted, cultured, noble. They are also representative of early, middle, and
later historical periods.

The legend of the Eight Immortals is certainly not older than the time of the Sung dynasty
(A.D. 960-1280), and is probably to be assigned to that of the Yüan dynasty (1280-1368). But
some, if not all, of the group seem to have been previously celebrated as Immortals in the
Taoist legends. Their biographies are usually arranged in the order of their official eminence
or seniority in age. Here I follow that adopted in Hsiu hsiang Pa Hsien tung yu chi [32] in
which they are described in the order in which they became Immortals.

Li T'ieh-kuai

Li T'ieh-kuai, depicted always with his crutch and gourd full of magic medicines, was of the
family name of Li, his own name being Li Yüan (Hs'üan, now read Yüan). He is also known as
K'ung-mu. Hsi Wang Mu cured him of an ulcer on the leg and taught him the art of becoming immortal.
He was canonized as Rector of the East. He is said to have been of commanding stature and dignified
mien, devoting himself solely to the study of Taoist lore. Hsi Wang Mu made him a present of
an iron crutch, and sent him to the capital to teach the doctrine of immortality to Han Chung-li.

He is also identified with Li Ning-yang, to whom Lao Tzu descended from Heaven in order to
instruct him in the wisdom of the gods. Soon after he had completed his course of instruction
his soul left his body to go on a visit to Hua Shan. Some say he was summoned by Lao Tzu, others
that Lao Tzu engaged him as escort to the countries of Hsi Yü. He left his disciple Lang Ling
in charge of his body, saying that if he did not return within seven days he was to have the
body cremated. Unfortunately, when only six days had elapsed the disciple was called away to
the death-bed of his mother. In order to be able to leave at once he cremated the body forthwith,
and when the soul returned it found only a heap of ashes. Some say the body was not cremated,
but only became devitalized through neglect or through being uninhabited for so long a time.
The object of the setting of the watch was not only to prevent injury to or theft of the body,
but also to prevent any other soul from taking up its abode in it.

In a forest near by a beggar had just died of hunger. Finding this corpse untenanted, the wandering
spirit entered it through the temples, and made off. When he found that his head was long and
pointed, his face black, his beard and hair woolly and dishevelled, his eyes of gigantic size,
and one of his legs lame, he wished to get out of this vile body; but Lao Tzu advised him not
to make the attempt and gave him a gold band to keep his hair in order, and an iron crutch
to help his lame leg. On lifting his hand to his eyes, he found they were as large as buckles.
That is why he was called Li K'ung-mu, 'Li Hollow Eyes.' Popularly he is known as Li T'ieh-kuai,
'Li with the Iron Crutch.' No precise period seems to be assigned to his career on earth, though
one tradition places him in the Yüan dynasty. Another account says that he was changed into
a dragon, and in that form ascended to Heaven.

Elsewhere it is related that T'ieh-kuai, after entering the body of the lame beggar, benevolently
proceeded to revive the mother of Yang, his negligent disciple. Leaning on his iron staff and
carrying a gourd of medicines on his back he went to Yang's house, where preparations were
being made for the funeral. The contents of the gourd, poured into the mouth, revived the dead
woman. He then made himself known, and, giving Yang another pill, vanished in a gust of wind.
Two hundred years later he effected the immortalization of his disciple.

During his peregrinations on earth he would hang a bottle on the wall at night and jump into
it, emerging on the following morning. He frequently returned to earth, and at times tried
to bring about the transmigration of others.

An example is the case of Ch'ao Tu, the watchman. T'ieh-kuai walked into a fiery furnace and
bade Ch'ao follow. The latter, being afraid of imitating an act evidently associated with the
supernatural world of evil spirits, refused to do so. T'ieh-kuai then told Ch'ao to step on
to a leaf floating on the surface of the river, saying that it was a boat that would bear him
across safely. Again the watchman refused, whereupon T'ieh-kuai, remarking that the cares of
this world were evidently too weighty for him to be able to ascend to immortality, stepped
on to the leaf himself and vanished.

Chung-li Ch'üan

Regarding the origin and life of this Immortal several different accounts are given. One states
that his family name was Chung-li, and that he lived in the Han dynasty, being therefore called
Han Chung-li. His cognomen was Ch'üan, his literary appellation Chi Tao, and his pseudonyms
Ho-ho Tzu and Wang-yang Tzu; his style Yün-fang.

He was born in the district of Hsien-yang Hsien (a sub-prefecture of the ancient capital Hsi-an
Fu) in Shensi. He became Marshal of the Empire in the cyclic year 2496. In his old age he became
a hermit on Yang-chio Shan, thirty li north-east of I-ch'êng Hsien in the prefecture of P'ing-yang
Fu in Shansi. He is referred to by the title of King-emperor of the True Active Principle.

Another account describes Chung-li Ch'üan as merely a vice-marshal in the service of Duke Chou
Hsiao. He was defeated in battle, and escaped to Chung-nan Shan, where he met the Five Heroes,
the Flowers of the East, who instructed him in the doctrine of immortality. At the end of the
T'ang dynasty Han Chung-li taught this same science of immortality to Lü Tung-pin (see p. 297),
and took the pompous title of the Only Independent One Under Heaven.

Other versions state that Han Chung-li is not the name of a person, but of a country; that
he was a Taoist priest Chung Li-tzu; and that he was a beggar, Chung-li by name, who gave to
one Lao Chih a pill of immortality. No sooner had the latter swallowed it than he went mad,
left his wife, and ascended to Heaven.

During a great famine he transmuted copper and pewter into silver by amalgamating them with
some mysterious drug. This treasure he distributed among the poor, and thousands of lives were
thus saved.

One day, while he was meditating, the stone wall of his dwelling in the mountains was rent
asunder, and a jade casket exposed to view. This was found to contain secret information as
to how to become an Immortal.

When he had followed these instructions for some time, his room was filled with many-coloured
clouds, music was heard, and a celestial stork came and bore him away on its back to the regions
of immortality.

He is sometimes represented holding his feather-fan, Yü-mao Shan; at other times the peach
of immortality. Since his admission to the ranks of the gods, he has appeared on earth at various
times as the messenger of Heaven. On one of these occasions he met Lü Yen, as narrated on p. 297.

Lan Ts'ai-ho

Lan Ts'ai-ho is variously stated to have been a woman and an hermaphrodite. She is the strolling
singer or mountebank of the Immortals. Usually she plays a flute or a pair of cymbals. Her
origin is unknown, but her personal name is said to have been Yang Su, and her career is assigned
to the period of the T'ang dynasty. She wandered abroad clad in a tattered blue gown held by
a black wooden belt three inches wide, with one foot shoeless and the other shod, wearing in
summer an undergarment of wadded material, and in winter sleeping on the snow, her breath rising
in a brilliant cloud like the steam from a boiling cauldron. In this guise she earned her livelihood
by singing in the streets, keeping time with a wand three feet long. Though taken for a lunatic,
the doggerel verse she sang disproved the popular slanders. It denounced this fleeting life
and its delusive pleasures. When given money, she either strung it on a cord and waved it to
the time of her song or scattered it on the ground for the poor to pick up.

One day she was found to have become intoxicated in an inn at Fêng-yang Fu in Anhui, and while
in that state disappeared on a cloud, having thrown down to earth her shoe, robe, belt, and
castanets.

According to popular belief, however, only one of the Eight Immortals, namely, Ho Hsien-ku,
was a woman, Lan Ts'ai-ho being represented as a young person of about sixteen, bearing a basket
of fruit. According to the Hsiu hsiang Pa Hsien tung yu chi, he was 'the Red-footed Great Genius,'
Ch'ih-chiao Ta-hsien incarnate. Though he was a man, adds the writer, he could not understand
how to be a man (which is perhaps the reason why he has been supposed to be a woman).

Chang Kuo

The period assigned to Chang Kuo is the middle or close of the seventh to the middle of the
eighth century A.D. He lived as a hermit on Chung-t'iao Shan, in the prefecture of P'ing-yang
Fu in Shansi. The Emperors T'ai Tsung and Kao Tsung of the T'ang dynasty frequently invited
him to Court, but he persistently refused to go. At last, pressed once more by the Empress
Wu (A.D. 684-705), he consented to leave his retreat, but was struck down by death at the gate
of the Temple of the Jealous Woman. His body began to decay and to be eaten by worms, when
lo! he was seen again, alive and well, on the mountains of Hêng Chou in P'ing-yang Fu. He rode
on a white mule, which carried him thousands of miles in a day, and which, when the journey
was finished, he folded up like a sheet of paper and put away in his wallet. When he again
required its services, he had only to spurt water upon the packet from his mouth and the animal
at once assumed its proper shape. At all times he performed wonderful feats of necromancy,
and declared that he had been Grand Minister to the Emperor Yao (2357-2255 B.C.) during a previous
existence.

It was just at this time that the famous Taoist Yeh Fa-shan, thanks to his skill in necromancy,
was in great favour at Court. The Emperor asked him who this Chang Kuo Lao (he usually has
the epithet Lao, 'old,' added to his name) was. "I know," replied the magician; "but if I were
to tell your Majesty I should fall dead at your feet, so I dare not speak unless your Majesty
will promise that you will go with bare feet and bare head to ask Chang Kuo to forgive you,
in which case I should immediately revive." Hsüan Tsung having promised, Fa-shan then said:
"Chang Kuo is a white spiritual bat which came out of primeval chaos." No sooner had he spoken
than he dropped dead at the Emperor's feet.

Hsüan Tsung, with bare head and feet, went to Chang Kuo as he had promised, and begged forgiveness
for his indiscretion. The latter then sprinkled water on Fa-shan's face and he revived. Soon
after Chang fell sick and returned to die in the Hêng Chou Mountains during the period A.D.
742-746. When his disciples opened his tomb, they found it empty.

He is usually seen mounted on his white mule, sometimes facing its head, sometimes its tail.
He carries a phoenix-feather or a peach of immortality.

At his interviews with the Emperor Ming Huang in A.D. 723 (when he was alive still) Chang Kuo
"entertained the Emperor with a variety of magical tricks, such as rendering himself invisible,
drinking off a cup of aconite, and felling birds or flowers by pointing at them. He refused
the hand of an imperial princess, and also declined to have his portrait placed in the Hall
of Worthies."

A picture of Chang Kuo sitting on a donkey and offering a descendant to the newly married couple
is often found in the nuptial chamber. It seems somewhat incongruous that an old ascetic should
be associated with matrimonial happiness and the granting of offspring, but the explanation
may possibly be connected with his performance of wonderful feats of necromancy, though he
is said not to have given encouragement to others in these things during his lifetime.

Ho Hsien Ku

A maiden holding in her hand a magic lotus-blossom, the flower of open-heartedness, or the
peach of immortality given her by Lü Tung-pin in the mountain-gorge as a symbol of identity,
playing at times the shêng or reed-organ, or drinking wine--this is the picture the Chinese
paint of the Immortal Ho Hsien Ku.

She was the daughter of Ho T'ai, a native of Tsêng-ch'êng Hsien in Kuangtung. Others say her
father was a shopkeeper at Ling-ling in Hunan. She lived in the time of the usurping empress
Wu (A.D. 684-705) of the T'ang dynasty. At her birth six hairs were found growing on the crown
of her head, and the account says she never had any more, though the pictures represent her
with a full head of hair. She elected to live on Yün-mu Ling, twenty li west of Tsêng-ch'êng
Hsien. On that mountain was found a stone called yün-mu shih, 'mother-of-pearl.' In a dream
she saw a spirit who ordered her to powder and eat one of these stones, by doing which she
could acquire both agility and immortality. She complied with this injunction, and also vowed
herself to a life of virginity. Her days were thenceforth passed in floating from one peak
to another, bringing home at night to her mother the fruits she collected on the mountain.
She gradually found that she had no need to eat in order to live. Her fame having reached the
ears of the Empress, she was invited to Court, but while journeying thither suddenly disappeared
from mortal view and became an Immortal. She is said to have been seen again in A.D. 750 floating
upon a cloud of many colours at the temple of Ma Ku, the famous female Taoist magician, and
again, some years later, in the city of Canton.

She is represented as an extremely beautiful maiden, and is remarkable as occupying so prominent
a position in a cult in which no system of female asceticism is developed.

Lü Tung-pin

Lü Tung-pin's family name was Lü; his personal name Tung-pin; also Yen; and his pseudonym Shun
Yang Tzu. He was born in A.D. 798 at Yung-lo Hsien, in the prefecture of Ho-chung Fu in Shansi,
a hundred and twenty li south-east of the present sub-prefecture of Yung-chi Hsien (P'u Chou).
He came of an official family, his grandfather having been President of the Ministry of Ceremonies,
and his father Prefect of Hai Chou. He was 5 feet 2 inches in height, and at twenty was still
unmarried. At this time he made a journey to Lu Shan in Kiangsi, where he met the Fire-dragon,
who presented him with a magic sword, which enabled him at will to hide himself in the heavens.

During his visit to the capital, Ch'ang-an in Shensi, he met the Immortal Han Chung-li, who
instructed him in the mysteries of alchemy and the elixir of life. When he revealed himself
as Yün-fang Hsien-shêng, Lü Yen expressed an ardent desire to aid in converting mankind to
the true doctrine, but was first exposed to a series of ten temptations. These being successfully
overcome, he was invested with supernatural power and magic weapons, with which he traversed
the Empire, slaying dragons and ridding the earth of divers kinds of evils, during a period
of upward of four hundred years. Another version says that Han Chung-li was in an inn, heating
a jug of rice-wine. Here Lü met him, and going to sleep dreamed that he was promoted to a very
high office and was exceptionally favoured by fortune in every way. This had gone on for fifty
years when unexpectedly a serious fault caused him to be condemned to exile, and his family
was exterminated. Alone in the world, he was sighing bitterly, when he awoke with a start.
All had taken place in so short a space of time that Han Chung-li's wine was not yet hot. This
is the incident referred to in Chinese literature in the phrase 'rice-wine dream.' Convinced
of the hollowness of worldly dignities, he followed Han Chung-li to the Ho Ling Mountains at
Chung-nan in Shensi, where he was initiated into the divine mysteries, and became an Immortal.

In A.D. 1115 the Emperor Hui Tsung conferred on him the title of Hero of Marvellous Wisdom;
and later he was proclaimed King-emperor and Strong Protector.

There are various versions of the legend of Lü Tung-pin. One of these adds that in order to
fulfil his promise made to Chung-li to do what he could to aid in the work of converting his
fellow-creatures to the true doctrine, he went to Yüch Yang in the guise of an oil-seller,
intending to immortalize all those who did not ask for additional weight to the quantity of
oil purchased. During a whole year he met only selfish and extortionate customers, with the
exception of one old lady who alone did not ask for more than was her due. So he went to her
house, and seeing a well in the courtyard threw a few grains of rice into it. The water miraculously
turned into wine, from the sale of which the dame amassed great wealth.

He was very skilful in fencing, and is always represented with his magic Excalibur named Chan-yao
Kuai, 'Devil-slaying Sabre,' and in one hand holds a fly-whisk, Yün-chou, or 'Cloud-sweeper,'
a symbol common in Taoism of being able to fly at will through the air and to walk on the clouds
of Heaven.

Like Kuan Kung, he is shown bearing in his arms a male child--indicating a promise of numerous
progeny, including literati and famous officials. Consequently he is one of the spiritual beings
honoured by the literati.

Han Hsiang Tzu

Han Hsiang Tzu, who is depicted with a bouquet of flowers or a basket of peaches of immortality,
is stated to have been a grand-nephew of Han Yü (A.D. 768-824), the great statesman, philosopher,
and poet of the T'ang dynasty, and an ardent votary of transcendental study. His own name was
Ch'ing Fu. The child was entrusted to his uncle to be educated and prepared for the public
examinations. He excelled his teacher in intelligence and the performance of wonderful feats,
such as the production from a little earth in a flower-pot of some marvellous flowering plants,
on the leaves of which were written in letters of gold some verses to this effect:

    The clouds hide Mount Ch'in Ling.
      Where is your abode?
    The snow is deep on Lan Kuan;
      Your horse refuses to advance.

"What is the meaning of these verses?" asked Han Yü. "You will see," replied Han Hsiang Tzu.

Some time afterward Han Yü was sent in disgrace to the prefecture of Ch'ao-chou Fu in Kuangtung.
When he reached the foot of Lan Kuan the snow was so deep that he could not go on. Han Hsiang
Tzu appeared, and, sweeping away the snow, made a path for him. Han Yü then understood the
prophecy in his pupil's verses.

When Han Hsiang Tzu was leaving his uncle, he gave him the following in verse:

Many indeed are the eminent men who have served their country, but which of them surpasses
you in his knowledge of literature? When you have reached a high position, you will be buried
in a damp and foggy land.

Han Yü also gave his pupil a farewell verse:

How many here below allow themselves to be inebriated by the love of honours and pelf! Alone
and watchful you persevere in the right path. But a time will come when, taking your flight
to the sky, you will open in the ethereal blue a luminous roadway.

Han Yü was depressed at the thought of the damp climate of his place of exile. "I fear there
is no doubt," he said, "that I shall die without seeing my family again."

Han Hsiang Tzu consoled him, gave him a prescription, and said: "Not only will you return in
perfect health to the bosom of your family, but you will be reinstated in your former offices."
All this took place exactly as he had predicted.

Another account states that he became the disciple of Lü Tung-pin, and, having been carried
up to the supernatural peach-tree of the genii, fell from its branches, but during his descent
attained to the state of immortality. Still another version says that he was killed by the
fall, was transformed, and then underwent the various experiences with Han Yü already related.

Ts'ao Kuo-chiu

Ts'ao Kuo-chiu was connected with the imperial family of the Sungs, and is shown with the tablet
of admission to Court in his hand. He became one of the Eight Immortals because the other seven,
who occupied seven of the eight grottos of the Upper Spheres, wished to see the eighth inhabited,
and nominated him because "his disposition resembled that of a genie." The legend relates that
the Empress Ts'ao, wife of the Emperor Jên Tsung (A.D. 1023-64), had two younger brothers.
The elder of the two, Ching-hsiu, did not concern himself with the affairs of State; the younger,
Ching-chih, was notorious for his misbehaviour. In spite of all warnings he refused to reform,
and being at last guilty of homicide was condemned to death. His brother, ashamed at what had
occurred, went and hid in the mountains, where he clothed his head and body with wild plants,
resolved to lead the life of a hermit. One day Han Chung-li and Lü Tung-pin found him in his
retreat, and asked him what he was doing. "I am engaged in studying the Way," he replied. "What
way, and where is it?" they asked. He pointed to the sky. "Where is the sky?" they went on.
He pointed to his heart. The two visitors smiled and said: "The heart is the sky, and the sky
is the Way; you understand the origin of things." They then gave him a recipe for perfection,
to enable him to take his place among the Perfect Ones. In a few days only he had reached this
much-sought-after condition.

In another version we find fuller details concerning this Immortal. A graduate named Yüan Wên-chêng
of Ch'ao-yang Hsien, in the sub-prefecture of Ch'ao-chou Fu in Kuangtung, was travelling with
his wife to take his examinations at the capital. Ts'ao Ching-chih, the younger brother of
the Empress, saw the lady, and was struck with her beauty. In order to gratify his passion
he invited the graduate and his young wife to the palace, where he strangled the husband and
tried to force the wife to cohabit with him. She refused obstinately, and as a last resort
he had her imprisoned in a noisome dungeon. The soul of the graduate appeared to the imperial
Censor Pao Lao-yeh, and begged him to exact vengeance for the execrable crime. The elder brother,
Ching-hsiu, seeing the case put in the hands of the upright Pao Lao-yeh, and knowing his brother
to be guilty of homicide, advised him to put the woman to death, in order to cut off all sources
of information and so to prevent further proceedings. The young voluptuary thereupon caused
the woman to be thrown down a deep well, but the star T'ai-po Chin-hsing, in the form of an
old man, drew her out again. While making her escape, she met on the road an official procession
which she mistook for that of Pao Lao-yeh, and, going up to the sedan chair, made her accusation.
This official was no other than the elder brother of the murderer. Ching-hsiu, terrified, dared
not refuse to accept the charge, but on the pretext that the woman had not placed herself respectfully
by the side of the official chair, and thus had not left a way clear for the passage of his
retinue, he had her beaten with iron-spiked whips, and she was cast away for dead in a neighbouring
lane. This time also she revived, and ran to inform Pao Lao-yeh. The latter immediately had
Ts'ao Ching-hsiu arrested, cangued, and fettered. Without loss of time he wrote an invitation
to the second brother, Ts'ao Ching-chih, and on his arrival confronted him with the graduate's
wife, who accused him to his face. Pao Lao-yeh had him put in a pit, and remained deaf to all
entreaties of the Emperor and Empress on his behalf. A few days later the murderer was taken
to the place of execution, and his head rolled in the dust. The problem now was how to get
Ts'ao Ching-hsiu out of the hands of the terrible Censor. The Emperor Jên Tsung, to please
the Empress, had a universal amnesty proclaimed throughout the Empire, under which all prisoners
were set free. On receipt of this edict, Pao Lao-yeh liberated Ts'ao Ching-hsiu from the cangue,
and allowed him to go free. As one risen from the dead, he gave himself up to the practice
of perfection, became a hermit, and, through the instruction of the Perfect Ones, became one
of the Eight Immortals.

Pa Hsien Kuo Hai

The phrase Pa Hsien kuo hai, 'the Eight Immortals crossing the sea,' refers to the legend of
an expedition made by these deities. Their object was to behold the wondrous things of the
sea not to be found in the celestial sphere.

The usual mode of celestial locomotion--by taking a seat on a cloud--was discarded at the suggestion
of Lü Yen who recommended that they should show the infinite variety of their talents by placing
things on the surface of the sea and stepping on them.

Li T'ieh-kuai threw down his crutch, and scudded rapidly over the waves. Chung-li Ch'üan used
his feather-fan, Chang Kuo his paper mule, Lü Tung-pin his sword, Han Hsiang Tzu his flower-basket,
Ho Hsien Ku her lotus-flower, Lan Ts'ai-ho his musical instrument, and Ts'ao Kuo-chiu his tablet
of admission to Court. The popular pictures often represent most of these articles changed
into various kinds of sea-monsters. The musical instrument was noticed by the son of the Dragon-king
of the Eastern Sea. This avaricious prince conceived the idea of stealing the instrument and
imprisoning its owner. The Immortals thereupon declared war, the details of which are described
at length by the Chinese writers, the outcome being that the Dragon-king was utterly defeated.
After this the Eight Immortals continued their submarine exploits for an indefinite time, encountering
numberless adventures; but here the author travels far into the fertile region of romance,
beyond the frontiers of our present province.

CHAPTER XII

The Guardian of the Gate of Heaven

Li, the Pagoda-bearer

In Buddhist temples there is to be seen a richly attired figure of a man holding in his hand
a model of a pagoda. He is Li, the Prime Minister of Heaven and father of No-cha.

He was a general under the tyrant Chou and commander of Ch'ên-t'ang Kuan at the time when the
bloody war was being waged which resulted in the extinction of the Yin dynasty.

No-cha is one of the most frequently mentioned heroes in Chinese romance; he is represented
in one account as being Yü Huang's shield-bearer, sixty feet in height, his three heads with
nine eyes crowned by a golden wheel, his eight hands each holding a magic weapon, and his mouth
vomiting blue clouds. At the sound of his Voice, we are told, the heavens shook and the foundations
of the earth trembled. His duty was to bring into submission all the demons which desolated
the world.

His birth was in this wise. Li Ching's wife, Yin Shih, bore him three sons, the eldest Chin-cha,
the second Mu-cha, and the third No-cha, generally known as 'the Third Prince.'

Yin Shih dreamed one night that a Taoist priest entered her room. She indignantly exclaimed:
"How dare you come into my room in this indiscreet manner?" The priest replied: "Woman, receive
the child of the unicorn!" Before she could reply the Taoist pushed an object to her bosom.

Yin Shih awoke in a fright, a cold sweat all over her body. Having awakened her husband, she
told him what she had dreamed. At that moment she was seized with the pains of childbirth.
Li Ching withdrew to an adjoining room, uneasy at what seemed to be inauspicious omens. A little
later two servants ran to him, crying out: "Your wife has given birth to a monstrous freak!"

An Avatar of the Intelligent Pearl

Li Ching seized his sword and went into his wife's room, which he found filled with a red light
exhaling a most extraordinary odour. A ball of flesh was rolling on the floor like a wheel;
with a blow of his sword he cut it open, and a babe emerged, surrounded by a halo of red light.
Its face was very white, a gold bracelet was on its right wrist, and it wore a pair of red
silk trousers, from which proceeded rays of dazzling golden light. The bracelet was 'the horizon
of Heaven and earth,' and the two precious objects belonged to the cave Chin-kuang Tung of
T'ai-i Chên-jên, the priest who had bestowed them upon him when he appeared to his mother during
her sleep. The child itself was an avatar of Ling Chu-tzu, 'the Intelligent Pearl.'

On the morrow T'ai-i Chên-jên returned and asked Li Ching's permission to see the new-born
babe. "He shall be called No-cha," he said, "and will become my disciple."

A Precocious Youth

At seven years of age No-cha was already six feet in height. One day he asked his mother if
he might go for a walk outside the town. His mother granted him permission on condition that
he was accompanied by a servant. She also counselled him not to remain too long outside the
wall, lest his father should become anxious.

It was in the fifth moon: the heat was excessive. No-cha had not gone a li before he was in
a profuse perspiration. Some way ahead he saw a clump of trees, to which he hastened, and,
settling himself in the shade, opened his coat, and breathed with relief the fresher air. In
front of him he saw a stream of limpid green water running between two rows of willows, gently
agitated by the movement of the wind, and flowing round a rock. The child ran to the banks
of the stream, and said to his guardian: "I am covered with perspiration, and will bathe from
the rock." "Be quick," said the servant; "if your father returns home before you he will be
anxious." No-cha stripped himself, took his red silk trousers, several feet long, and dipped
them in the water, intending to use them as a towel. No sooner were the magic trousers immersed
in the stream than the water began to boil, and Heaven and earth trembled. The water of this
river, the Chiu-wan Ho, 'Nine-bends River,' which communicated with the Eastern Sea, turned
completely red, and Lung Wang's palace shook to its foundations. The Dragon-king, surprised
at seeing the walls of his crystal palace shaking, called his officers and inquired: "How is
it that the palace threatens to collapse? There should not be an earthquake at this time."
He ordered one of his attendants to go at once and find out what evil was giving rise to the
commotion. When the officer reached the river he saw that the water was red, but noticed nothing
else except a boy dipping a band of silk in the stream. He cleft the water and called out angrily:
"That child should be thrown into the water for making the river red and causing Lung Wang's
palace to shake."

"Who is that who speaks so brutally?" said No-cha. Then, seeing that the man intended to seize
him, he jumped aside, took his gold bracelet, and hurled it in the air. It fell on the head
of the officer, and No-cha left him dead on the rock. Then he picked up his bracelet and said
smiling: "His blood has stained my precious horizon of Heaven and earth." He then washed it
in the water.

The Slaying of the Dragon-king's Son

"How is it that the officer does not return?" inquired Lung Wang. At that moment attendants
came to inform him that his retainer had been murdered by a boy.

Thereupon Ao Ping, the third son of Lung Wang, placing himself at the head of a troop of marines,
his trident in his hand, left the palace precincts. The warriors dashed into the river, raising
on every side waves mountains high. Seeing the water rising, No-cha stood up on the rock and
was confronted by Ao Ping mounted on a sea-monster.

"Who slew my messenger?" cried the warrior.

"I did," answered No-cha.

"Who are you?" demanded Ao Ping.

"I am No-cha, the third son of Li Ching of Ch'ên-t'ang Kuan. I came here to bathe and refresh
myself; your messenger cursed me, and I killed him. Then--"

"Rascal! do you not know that your victim was a deputy of the King of Heaven? How dare you
kill him, and then boast of your crime?"

So saying, Ao Ping thrust at the boy with his trident. No-cha, by a brisk move, evaded the thrust.

"Who are you?" he asked in turn.

"I am Ao Ping, the third son of Lung Wang."

"Ah, you are a blusterer," jeered the boy; "if you dare to touch me I will skin you alive,
you and your mud-eels!"

"You make me choke with rage," rejoined Ao Ping, at the same time thrusting again with his trident.

Furious at this renewed attack, No-cha spread his silk trousers in the air, and thousands of
balls of fire flew out of them, felling Lung Wang's son. No-cha put his foot on Ao Ping's head
and struck it with his magic bracelet, whereupon he appeared in his true form of a dragon.

"I am now going to pull out your sinews," he said, "in order to make a belt for my father to
use to bind on his cuirass."

No-cha was as good as his word, and Ao Ping's escort ran and informed Lung Wang of the fate
of his son. The Dragon-king went to Li Ching and demanded an explanation.

Being entirely ignorant of what had taken place, Li Ching sought No-cha to question him.

An Unruly Son

No-cha was in the garden, occupied in weaving the belt of dragon-sinew. The stupefaction of
Li Ching may be imagined. "You have brought most awful misfortunes upon us," he exclaimed.
"Come and give an account of your conduct." "Have no fear," replied No-cha superciliously;
"his son's sinews are still intact; I will give them back to him if he wishes."

When they entered the house he saluted the Dragon-king, made a curt apology, and offered to
return his son's sinews. The father, moved with grief at the sight of the proofs of the tragedy,
said bitterly to Li Ching: "You have such a son and yet dare to deny his guilt, though you
heard him haughtily admitting it! To-morrow I shall report the matter to Yü Huang." Having
spoken thus, he departed.

Li Ching was overwhelmed at the enormity of his son's crime. His wife, in an adjoining room,
hearing his lamentations, went to her husband. "What obnoxious creature is this that you have
brought into the world?" he said to her angrily. "He has slain two spirits, the son of Lung
Wang and a steward sent by the King of Heaven. To-morrow the Dragon-king is to lodge a complaint
with Yü Huang, and two or three days hence will see the end of our existence."

The poor mother began to weep copiously. "What!" she sobbed, "you whom I suffered so much for,
you are to be the cause of our ruin and death!"

No-cha, seeing his parents so distracted, fell on his knees. "Let me tell you once for all,"
he said, "that I am no ordinary mortal. I am the disciple of T'ai-i Chên-jên; my magic weapons
I received from him; it is they which brought upon me the undying hatred of Lung Wang. But
he cannot prevail. To-day I will go and ask my master's advice. The guilty alone should suffer
the penalty; it is unjust that his parents should suffer in his stead."

Drastic Measures

He then left for Ch'ien-yüan Shan, and entered the cave of his master T'ai-i Chên-jên, to whom
he related his adventures. The master dwelt upon the grave consequences of the murders, and
then ordered No-cha to bare his breast. With his finger he drew on the skin a magic formula,
after which he gave him some secret instructions. "Now," he said, "go to the gate of Heaven
and await the arrival of Lung Wang, who purposes to accuse you before Yü Huang. Then you must
come again to consult me, that your parents may not be molested because of your misdeeds."

When No-cha reached the gate of Heaven it was closed. In vain he sought for Lung Wang, but
after a while he saw him approaching. Lung Wang did not see No-cha, for the formula written
by T'ai-i Chên-jên rendered him invisible. As Lung Wang approached the gate No-cha ran up to
him and struck him so hard a blow with his golden bracelet that he fell to the ground. Then
No-cha stamped on him, cursing him vehemently.

The Dragon-king now recognized his assailant and sharply reproached him with his crimes, but
the only reparation he got was a renewal of kicks and blows. Then, partially lifting Lung Wang's
cloak and raising his shield, No-cha tore off from his body about forty scales. Blood flowed
copiously, and the Dragon-king, under stress of the pain, begged his foe to spare his life.
To this No-cha consented on condition that he relinquished his purpose of accusing him before
Yü Huang.

"Now," went on No-cha, "change yourself into a small serpent that I may take you back without
fear of your escaping."

Lung Wang took the form of a small blue dragon, and followed No-cha to his father's house,
upon entering which Lung Wang resumed his normal form, and accused No-cha of having belaboured
him. "I will go with all the Dragon-kings and lay an accusation before Yü Huang," he said.
Thereupon he transformed himself into a gust of wind, and disappeared.

No-cha draws a Bow at a Venture

"Things are going from bad to worse," sighed Li Ching, His son, however, consoled him: "I beg
you, my father, not to let the future trouble you. I am the chosen one of the gods. My master
is T'ai-i Chên-jên, and he has assured me that he can easily protect us."

No-cha now went out and ascended a tower which commanded a view of the entrance of the fort.
There he found a wonderful bow and three magic arrows. No-cha did not know that this was the
spiritual weapon belonging to the fort. "My master informed me that I am destined to fight
to establish the coming Chou dynasty; I ought therefore to perfect myself in the use of weapons.
This is a good opportunity." He accordingly seized the bow and shot an arrow toward the south-west.
A red trail indicated the path of the arrow, which hissed as it flew. At that moment Pi Yün,
a servant of Shih-chi Niang-niang, happened to be at the foot of K'u-lou Shan (Skeleton Hill),
in front of the cave of his mistress. The arrow pierced his throat, and he fell dead, bathed
in his blood. Shih-chi Niang-niang came out of her cave, and examining the arrow found that
it bore the inscription: "Arrow which shakes the heavens." She thus knew that it must have
come from Ch'ên-t'ang Kuan, where the magic bow was kept.

Another Encounter

The goddess mounted her blue phoenix, flew over the fort, seized Li Ching, and carried him
to her cave. There she made him kneel before her, and reminded him how she had protected him
that he might gain honour and glory on earth before he attained to immortality. "It is thus
that you show your gratitude--by killing my servant!"

Li Ching swore that he was innocent; but the tell-tale arrow was there, and it could not but
have come from the fortress. Li Ching begged the goddess to set him at liberty, in order that
he might find the culprit and bring him to her. "If I cannot find him," he added, "you may
take my life."

Once again No-cha frankly admitted his deed to his father, and followed him to the cave of
Shih-chi Niang-niang. When he reached the entrance the second servant reproached him with the
crime, whereupon No-cha struck him a heavy blow. Shih-chi Niang-niang, infuriated, threw herself
at No-cha, sword in hand; one after the other she wrenched from him his bracelet and magic
trousers.

Deprived of his magic weapons, No-cha fled to his master, T'ai-i Chên-jên. The goddess followed
and demanded that he be put to death. A terrible conflict ensued between the two champions,
until T'ai-i Chên-jên hurled into the air his globe of nine fire-dragons, which, falling on
Shih-chi Niang-niang, enveloped her in a whirlwind of flame. When this had passed it was seen
that she was changed into stone.

"Now you are safe," said T'ai-i Chên-jên to No-cha, "but return quickly, for the Four Dragon-kings
have laid their accusation before Yü Huang, and they are going to carry off your parents. Follow
my advice, and you will rescue your parents from their misfortune."

No-cha commits Hara-Kiri

On his return No-cha found the Four Dragon-kings on the point of carrying off his parents.
"It is I," he said, "who killed Ao Ping, and I who should pay the penalty. Why are you molesting
my parents? I am about to return to them what I received from them. Will it satisfy you?"

Lung Wang agreed, whereupon No-cha took a sword, and before their eyes cut off an arm, sliced
open his stomach, and fell unconscious. His soul, borne on the wind, went straight to the cave
of T'ai-i Chên-jên, while his mother busied herself with burying his body.

"Your home is not here," said his master to him; "return to Ch'ên-t'ang Kuan, and beg your
mother to build a temple on Ts'ui-p'ing Shan, forty li farther on. Incense will be burned to
you for three years, at the end of which time you will be reincarnated."

A Habitation for the Soul

During the night, toward the third watch, while his mother was in a deep sleep, No-cha appeared
to her in a dream and said: "My mother, pity me; since my death, my soul, separated from my
body, wanders about without a home. Build me, I pray you, a temple on Ts'ui-p'ing Shan, that
I may be reincarnated." His mother awoke in tears, and related her vision to Li Ching, who
reproached her for her blind attachment to her unnatural son, the cause of so much disaster.

For five or six nights the son appeared to his mother, each time repeating his request. The
last time he added: "Do not forget that by nature I am ferocious; if you refuse my request
evil will befall you."

His mother then sent builders to the mountain to construct a temple to No-cha, and his image
was set up in it. Miracles were not wanting, and the number of pilgrims who visited the shrine
increased daily.

Li Ching destroys his Son's Statue

One day Li Ching, with a troop of his soldiers, was passing this mountain, and saw the roads
crowded with pilgrims of both sexes. "Where are these people going?" he asked. "For six months
past," he was told, "the spirit of the temple on this mountain has continued to perform miracles.
People come from far and near to worship and supplicate him."

"What is the name of this spirit?" inquired Li Ching.

"No-cha," they replied.

"No-cha!" exclaimed the father. "I will go and see him myself."

In a rage Li Ching entered the temple and examined the statue, which was a speaking image of
his son. By its side were images of two of his servants. He took his whip and began to beat
the statue, cursing it all the while. "It is not enough, apparently, for you to have been a
source of disaster to us," he said; "but even after your death you must deceive the multitude."
He whipped the statue until it fell to pieces; he then kicked over the images of the servants,
and went back, admonishing the people not to worship so wicked a man, the shame and ruin of
his family. By his orders the temple was burnt to the ground.

When he reached Ch'ên-t'ang Kuan his wife came to him, but he received her coldly. "You gave
birth to that cursed son," he said, "who has been the plague of our lives, and after his death
you build him a temple in which he deceives the people. Do you wish to have me disgraced? If
I were to be accused at Court of having instituted the worship of false gods, would not my
destruction be certain? I have burned the temple, and intend that that shall settle the matter
once for all; if ever you think of rebuilding it I will break off all relations with you."

No-cha consults his Master

At the time of his father's visit No-cha was absent from the temple. On his return he found
only its smoking remnants. The spirits of his two servants ran up lamenting. "Who has demolished
my temple?" he asked. "Li Ching," they replied. "In doing this he has exceeded his powers,"
said No-cha. "I gave him back the substance I received from him; why did he come with violence
to break up my image? I will have nothing more to do with him."

No-cha's soul had already begun to be spiritualised. So he determined to go to T'ai-i Chên-jên
and beg for his help. "The worship rendered to you there," replied the Taoist, "had nothing
in it which should have offended your father; it did not concern him. He was in the wrong.
Before long Chiang Tzu-ya will descend to inaugurate the new dynasty, and since you must throw
in your lot with him I will find a way to aid you."

A New No-cha

T'ai-i Chên-jên had two water-lily stalks and three lotus-leaves brought to him. He spread
these on the ground in the form of a human being and placed the soul of No-cha in this lotus
skeleton, uttering magic incantations the while. There emerged a new No-cha full of life, with
a fresh complexion, purple lips, keen glance, and sixteen feet of height. "Follow me to my
peach-garden," said T'ai-i Chên-jên, "and I will give you your weapons." He handed him a fiery
spear, very sharp, and two wind-and-fire wheels which, placed under his feet, served as a Vehicle.
A brick of gold in a panther-skin bag completed his magic armament. The new warrior, after
thanking his master, mounted his wind-and-fire wheels and returned to Ch'ên-t'ang Kuan.

A Battle between Father and Son

Li Ching was informed that his son No-cha had returned and was threatening vengeance. So he
took his weapons, mounted his horse, and went forth to meet him. Having cursed each other profusely,
they joined battle, but Li Ching was worsted and compelled to flee. No-cha pursued his father,
but as he was on the point of overtaking him Li Ching's second son, Mu-cha, came on the scene,
and keenly reproached his brother for his unfilial conduct.

"Li Ching is no longer my father," replied No-cha. "I gave him back my substance; why did he
burn my temple and smash up my image?"

Mu-cha thereupon prepared to defend his father, but received on his back a blow from the golden
brick, and fell unconscious. No-cha then resumed his pursuit of Li Ching.

His strength exhausted, and in danger of falling into the hands of his enemy, Li Ching drew
his sword and was about to kill himself. "Stop!" cried a Taoist priest. "Come into my cave,
and I will protect you."

When No-cha came up he could not see Li Ching, and demanded his surrender from the Taoist.
But he had to do with one stronger than himself, no less a being than Wên-chu T'ien-tsun, whom
T'ai-i Chên-jên had sent in order that No-cha might receive a lesson. The Taoist, with the
aid of his magic weapon, seized No-cha, and in a moment he found a gold ring fastened round
his neck, two chains on his feet, and he was bound to a pillar of gold.

Peace at the Last

At this moment, as if by accident, T'ai-i Chên-jên appeared upon the scene. His master had
No-cha brought before Wên-chu T'ien-tsun and Li Ching, and advised him to live at peace with
his father, but he also rebuked the father for having burned the temple on Ts'ui-p'ing Shan.
This done, he ordered Li Ching to go home, and No-cha to return to his cave. The latter, overflowing
with anger, his heart full of vengeance, started again in pursuit of Li Ching, swearing that
he would punish him. But the Taoist reappeared and prepared to protect Li Ching.

No-cha, bristling like a savage cat, threw himself at his enemy and tried to pierce him with
his spear, but a white lotus-flower emerged from the Taoist's mouth and arrested the course
of the weapon. As No-cha continued to threaten him, the Taoist drew from his sleeve a mysterious
object which rose in the air, and, falling at the feet of No-cha, enveloped him in flames.
Then No-cha prayed for mercy. The Taoist exacted from him three separate promises: to live
in harmony with his father, to recognize and address him as his father, and to throw himself
at his, the Taoist's, feet, to indicate his reconciliation with himself.

After this act of reconciliation had been performed, Wên-chu T'ien-tsun promised Li Ching that
he should leave his official post to become an Immortal able to place his services at the disposal
of the new Chou dynasty, shortly to come into power. In order to ensure that their reconciliation
should last for ever, and to place it beyond No-cha's power to seek revenge, he gave Li Ching
the wonderful object by whose agency No-cha's feet had been burned, and which had been the
means of bringing him into subjection. It was a golden pagoda, which became the characteristic
weapon of Li Ching, and gave rise to his nickname, Li the Pagoda-bearer. Finally, Yü Huang
appointed him Generalissimo of the Twenty-six Celestial Officers, Grand Marshal of the Skies,
and Guardian of the Gate of Heaven.

CHAPTER XIII

A Battle of the Gods

Multifarious Versatile Divinities

The Fêng shên yen i describes at length how, during the wars which preceded the accession of
the Chou dynasty in 1122 B.C., a multitude of demigods, Buddhas, Immortals, etc., took part
on one side or the other, some fighting for the old, some for the new dynasty. They were wonderful
creatures, gifted with marvellous powers. They could at will change their form, multiply their
heads and limbs, become invisible, and create, by merely uttering a word, terrible monsters
who bit and destroyed, or sent forth poison gases, or emitted flames from their nostrils. In
these battles there is much lightning, thunder, flight of fire-dragons, dark clouds which vomit
burning hails of murderous weapons; swords, spears, and arrows fall from the sky on to the
heads of the combatants; the earth trembles, the pillars of Heaven shake.

Chun T'i

One of these gifted warriors was Chun T'i, a Taoist of the Western Paradise, who appeared on
the scene when the armies of the rival dynasties were facing each other. K'ung Hsüan was gallantly
holding the pass of the Chin-chi Ling; Chiang Tzu-ya was trying to take it by assault--so far
without success.

Chun T'i's mission was to take K'ung Hsüan to the abode of the blest, his wisdom and general
progress having now reached the required degree of perfection. This was a means of breaking
down the invincible resistance of this powerful enemy and at the same time of rewarding his
brilliant talents.

But K'ung Hsüan did not approve of this plan, and a fight took place between the two champions.
At one moment Chun T'i was seized by a luminous bow and carried into the air, but while enveloped
in a cloud of fire he appeared with eighteen arms and twenty-four heads, holding in each hand
a powerful talisman.

The One-eyed Peacock

He put a silk cord round K'ung Hsüan's neck, touched him with his wand, and forced him to reassume
his original form of a red one-eyed peacock. Chun T'i seated himself on the peacock's back,
and it flew across the sky, bearing its saviour and master to the Western Paradise. Brilliantly
variegated clouds marked its track through space.

Arrangements for the Siege

On the disappearance of its defender the defile of Chin-chi Ling was captured, and the village
of Chieh-p'ai Kuan, the bulwark of the enemy's forces, reached. This place was defended by
a host of genii and Immortals, the most distinguished among them being the Taoist T'ung-t'ien
Chiao-chu, whose specially effective charms had so far kept the fort secure against every attempt
upon it.

Lao Tzu himself had deigned to descend from dwelling in happiness, together with Yüan-shih
T'ien-tsun and Chieh-yin Tao-jên, to take part in the siege. But the town had four gates, and
these heavenly rulers were only three in number. So Chun T'i was recalled, and each member
of the quartette was entrusted with the task of capturing one of the gates.

Impediments

Chun T'i's duty was to take the Chüeh-hsien Mên, defended by T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu. The warriors
who had tried to enter the town by this gate had one and all paid for their temerity with their
lives. The moment each had crossed the threshold a clap of thunder had resounded, and a mysterious
sword, moving with lightning rapidity, had slain him.

Offence and Defence

As Chun T'i advanced at the head of his warriors terrible lightning rent the air and the mysterious
sword descended like a thunderbolt upon his head. But Chun T'i held on high his Seven-precious
Branch, whereupon there emerged from it thousands of lotus-flowers, which formed an impenetrable
covering and stopped the sword in its fall. This and the other gates were then forced, and
a grand assault was now directed against the chief defender of the town.

T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu, riding his ox and surrounded by his warriors, for the last time risked
the chance of war and bravely faced his four terrible adversaries. With his sword held aloft,
he threw himself on Chieh-yin Tao-jên, whose only weapon was his fly-whisk. But there emerged
from this a five-coloured lotus-flower, which stopped the sword-thrust. While Lao Tzu struck
the hero with his staff, Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun warded off the terrible sword with his jade ju-i.

Chun T'i now called to his help the spiritual peacock, and took the form of a warrior with
twenty-four heads and eighteen arms. His mysterious weapons surrounded T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu,
and Lao Tzu struck the hero so hard that fire came out from his eyes, nose, and mouth. Unable
to parry the assaults of his adversaries, he next received a blow from Chun T'i's magic wand,
which felled him, and he took flight in a whirlwind of dust.

The defenders now offered no further resistance, and Yüan-shih T'ien-tsun thanked Chun T'i
for the valuable assistance he had rendered in the capture of the village, after which the
gods returned to their palace in the Western Heaven.

Attempts at Revenge

T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu, vanquished and routed, swore to have his revenge. He called to his aid
the spirits of the twenty-eight constellations, and marched to attack Wu Wang's army. The honour
of the victory that ensued belonged to Chun T'i, who disarmed both the Immortal Wu Yün and
T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu.

Wu Yün, armed with his magic sword, entered the lists against Chun T'i; but the latter opened
his mouth and a blue lotus-flower came out and stopped the blows aimed at him. Other thrusts
were met by similar miracles.

"Why continue so useless a fight?" said Chun T'i at last. "Abandon the cause of the Shang,
and come with me to the Western Paradise. I came to save you, and you must not compel me to
make you resume your original form."

An insulting flow of words was the reply; again the magic sword descended like lightning, and
again the stroke was averted by a timely lotus-flower. Chun T'i now waved his wand, and the
magic sword was broken to bits, the handle only remaining in Wu Yün's hand.

The Golden-bearded Turtle

Mad with rage, Wu Yün seized his club and tried to fell his enemy. But Chun T'i summoned a
disciple, who appeared with a bamboo pole. This he thrust out like a fishing-rod, and on a
hook at the end of the line attached to the pole dangled a large golden-bearded turtle. This
was the Immortal Wu Yün, now in his original form of a spiritual turtle. The disciple seated
himself on its back, and both, disappearing into space, returned to the Western Heavens.

The Battle Won

To conquer T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu was more difficult, but after a long fight Chun T'i waved
his Wand of the Seven Treasures and broke his adversary's sword. The latter, disarmed and vanquished,
disappeared in a cloud of dust. Chun T'i did not trouble to pursue him. The battle was won.

Buddhahood

A disciple of T'ung-t'ien Chiao-chu, P'i-lu Hsien, 'the Immortal P'i-lu,' seeing his master
beaten in two successive engagements, left the battlefield and followed Chun T'i to the Western
Paradise, to become a Buddha. He is known as P'i-lu Fo, one of the principal gods of Buddhism.

Chun T'i's festival is celebrated on the sixth day of the third moon. He is generally shown
with eight hands and three faces, one of the latter being that of a pig.

CHAPTER XIV

How the Monkey Became a God

The Hsi Yu Chi

In dealing with the gods of China we noticed the monkey among them. Why and in what manner
he attained to that exalted rank is set forth in detail in the Hsi yu chi [33]--a work the
contents of which have become woven into the fabric of Chinese legendary lore and are known
and loved by every intelligent native. Its pages are filled with ghosts, demons, and fairies,
good and bad, but "it contains no more than the average Chinese really believes to exist, and
his belief in such manifestations is so firm that from the cradle to the grave he lives and
moves and has his being in reference to them." Its characters are said to be allegorical, though
it may be doubted whether these implications may rightly be read into the Chinese text. Thus:

Hsüan (or Yüan) Chuang, or T'ang Sêng, is the pilgrim of the Hsi yu chi, who symbolizes conscience,
to which all actions are brought for trial. The priestly garment of Hsüan Chuang symbolizes
the good work of the rectified human nature. It is held to be a great protection to the new
heart from the myriads of evil beings which surround it, seeking its destruction.

Sun Hou-tzu, the Monkey Fairy, represents human nature, which is prone to all evil. His unreasonable
vagaries moved Hsüan Chuang to compel him to wear a Head-splitting Helmet which would contract
upon his head in moments of waywardness. The agonizing pressure thus caused would bring him
to his senses, irrespective of his distance from his master.

The iron wand of Sun Hou-tzu is said to represent the use that can be made of doctrine. It
was useful for all purposes, great or small. By a word it could be made invisible, and by a
word it could become long enough to span the distance between Heaven and earth.

Chu Pa-chieh, the Pig Fairy, with his muck-rake, stands for the coarser passions, which are
constantly at war with the conscience in their endeavours to cast off all restraint.

Sha Ho-shang, Priest Sha, is a good representation of Mr Faithful in The Pilgrim's Progress.
In the Hsi yu chi he stands for the human character, which is naturally weak and which needs
constant encouragement.

Legend of Sun Hou-tzu

The deeds of this marvellous creature, the hero of the Hsi yu chi, are to be met with continually
in Chinese popular literature, and they are very much alive in the popular mind. In certain
parts a regular worship is offered to him, and in many temples representations of or legends
concerning him are to be seen or heard.

Other names by which Sun Hou-tzu is referred to are: Sun Hsing-chê, Sun Wu-k'ung, Mei Hou-wang,
Ch'i-t'ien Ta Shêng, and Pi-ma Wên, the last-mentioned being a title which caused him annoyance
by recalling the derisive dignity conferred upon him by Yü Huang. [34] Throughout the remainder
of this chapter Sun Hou-tzu will be shortly referred to as 'Sun.'

Beyond the seas, in the Eastern continent, in the kingdom of Ao-lai, is the mountain Hua-kuo
Shan. On the steep sides of this mountain there is a rocky point 36 feet 5 inches high and
24 feet in circumference. At the very top an egg formed, and, fructified by the breath of the
wind, gave birth to a stone monkey. The newly-born saluted the four points of the horizon;
from his eyes shone golden streaks of lightning, which filled the palace of the North Pole
Star with light. This light subsided as soon as he was able to take nourishment.

"To-day," said Yü Huang to himself, "I am going to complete the wonderful diversity of the
beings engendered by Heaven and earth. This monkey will skip and gambol to the highest peaks
of mountains, jump about in the waters, and, eating the fruit of the trees, will be the companion
of the gibbon and the crane. Like the deer he will pass his nights on the mountain slopes,
and during the day will be seen leaping on their summits or in their caverns. That will be
the finest ornament of all for the mountains!"

The creature's exploits soon caused him to be proclaimed king of the monkeys. He then began
to try to find some means of becoming immortal. After travelling for eighteen years by land
and sea he met the Immortal P'u-t'i Tsu-shih on the mountain Ling-t'ai-fang-ts'un. During his
travels the monkey had gradually acquired human attributes; his face remained always as it
had been originally, but dressed in human apparel he began to be civilized. His new master
gave him the family name of Sun, and personal name of Wu-k'ung, 'Discoverer of Secrets.' He
taught him how to fly through the air, and to change into seventy-two different forms. With
one leap he could cover 108,000 li (about 36,000 miles).

A Rod of Iron

Sun, after his return to Hua-kuo Shan, slew the demon Hun-shih Mo-wang, who had been molesting
the monkeys during his long absence. Then he organized his subjects into a regular army, 47,000
all told. Thus the peace of the simian kingdom was assured. As for himself, he could not find
a weapon to suit him, and went to consult Ao Kuang, the Lung Wang, or Dragon-king of the Eastern
Sea, about it. It was from him that he obtained the formidable rod of iron, formerly planted
in the ocean-bed by the Great Yü (Yü Wang) to regulate the level of the waters. He pulled it
out, and modified it to suit his tastes. The two extremities he bound round with gold bands,
and on it engraved the words: 'Gold-bound Wand of my Desires.' This magic weapon could accommodate
itself to all his wishes; being able to assume the most incredible proportions or to reduce
itself to the form of the finest of needles, which he kept hidden in his ear. He terrorized
the Four Kings of the sea, and dressed himself at their expense. The neighbouring kings allied
themselves with him. A splendid banquet with copious libations of wine sealed the alliance
of friendship with the seven kings; but alas! Sun had partaken so liberally that when he was
seeing his guests off, no sooner had he taken a few steps than he fell into a drunken sleep.
The undertakers of Yen Wang, the King of the Hells, to whom Lung Wang had accused him as the
disturber of his watery kingdom, seized his soul, put chains round its neck, and led it down
to the infernal regions. Sun awoke in front of the gate of the kingdom of the dead, broke his
fetters, killed his two custodians, and, armed with his magic staff, penetrated into the realm
of Yen Wang, where he threatened to carry out general destruction. He called to the ten infernal
gods to bring him the Register of the Living and the Dead, tore out with his own hand the page
on which were written his name and those of his monkey subjects, and then told the King of
the Hells that he was no longer subject to the laws of death. Yen Wang yielded, though with
bad grace, and Sun returned triumphant from his expedition beyond the tomb.

Before long Sun's escapades came to the knowledge of Yü Huang. Ao Kuang and Yen Wang each sent
deputies to the Master of Heaven, who took note of the double accusation, and sent T'ai-po
Chin-hsing to summon before him this disturber of the heavenly peace.

Grand Master of the Heavenly Stables

In order to keep him occupied, Sun was appointed Grand Master of the Heavenly Stables, and
was entrusted with the feeding of Yü Huang's horses; his official celestial title being Pi-ma
Wên. Later on, learning the object of the creation of this derisory appointment, he overturned
the Master's throne, seized his staff, broke down the South Gate of Heaven, and descended on
a cloud to Hua-kuo Shan.

Grand Superintendent of the Heavenly Peach-garden

Yü Huang in great indignation organized a siege of Hua-kuo Shan, but the Kings of Heaven and
the generals with their celestial armies were repulsed several times. Sun now arrogated to
himself the pompous title of Grand Saint, Governor of Heaven. He had this emblazoned on his
banners, and threatened Yü Huang that he would carry destruction into his kingdom if he refused
to recognize his new dignity. Yü Huang, alarmed at the result of the military operations, agreed
to the condition laid down by Sun. The latter was then appointed Grand Superintendent of the
Heavenly Peach-garden, the fruit of which conferred immortality, and a new palace was built
for him.

Double Immortality

Having made minute observations on the secret properties of the peaches, Sun ate of them and
was thus assured against death. The time was ripe for him to indulge in his tricks without
restraint, and an opportunity soon presented itself. Deeply hurt at not having been invited
to the feast of the Peach Festival, P'an-t'ao Hui, given periodically to the Immortals by Wang-mu
Niang-niang, the Goddess of the Immortals, he resolved upon revenge. When the preparations
for the feast were complete he cast a spell over the servants, causing them to fall into a
deep sleep, and then ate up all the most juicy meats and drank the fine wines provided for
the heavenly guests. Sun had, however, indulged himself too liberally; with heavy head and
bleary eye he missed the road back to his heavenly abode, and came unaware to the gate of Lao
Chün, who was, however, absent from his palace. It was only a matter of a few minutes for Sun
to enter and swallow the pills of immortality which Lao Chün kept in five gourds. Thus Sun,
doubly immortal, riding on the mist, again descended to Hua-kuo Shan.

Sun Hou-tzu Captured

These numerous misdeeds aroused the indignation of all the gods and goddesses. Accusations
poured in upon Yü Huang, and he ordered the Four Gods of the Heavens and their chief generals
to bring Sun to him. The armies laid siege to Hua-kuo Shan, a net was spread in the heavens,
fantastic battles took place, but the resistance of the enemy was as strenuous and obstinate
as before.

Lao Chün and Êrh-lang, nephew of Yü Huang, then appeared on the scene. Sun's warriors resisted
gallantly, but the forces of Heaven were too much for them, and at length they were overcome.
At this juncture Sun changed his form, and in spite of the net in the sky managed to find a
way out. In vain search was made everywhere, until Li T'ien-wang, by the help of his devil-finding
mirror, detected the quarry and informed Êrh-lang, who rushed off in pursuit. Lao Chün hurled
his magic ring on to the head of the fugitive, who stumbled and fell. Quick as lightning, the
celestial dog, T'ien Kou, who was in Êrh-lang's service, threw himself on him, bit him in the
calf, and caused him to stumble afresh. This was the end of the fight. Sun, surrounded on all
sides, was seized and chained. The battle was won.

Sun escapes from Lao Chün's Furnace

The celestial armies now raised the siege, and returned to their quarters. But a new and unexpected
difficulty arose. Yü Huang condemned the criminal to death, but when they went to carry out
the sentence the executioners learned that he was invulnerable; swords, iron, fire, even lightning,
could make no impression on his skin. Yü Huang, alarmed, asked Lao Chün the reason of this.
The latter replied that there was nothing surprising about it, seeing that the knave had eaten
the peaches of life in the garden of Heaven and the pills of immortality which he had composed.
"Hand him over to me," he added. "I will distil him in my furnace of the Eight Trigrams, and
extract from his composition the elements which render him immortal."

Yü Huang ordered that the prisoner be handed over, and in the sight of all he was shut up in
Lao Chün's alchemical furnace, which for forty-nine days was heated white-hot. But at an unguarded
moment Sun lifted the lid, emerged in a rage, seized his magic staff, and threatened to destroy
Heaven and exterminate its inhabitants. Yü Huang, at the end of his resources, summoned Buddha,
who came and addressed Sun as follows: "Why do you wish to possess yourself of the Kingdom
of the Heavens?"

"Have I not power enough to be the God of Heaven?" was the arrogant reply.

"What qualifications have you?" asked Buddha. "Enumerate them."

"My qualifications are innumerable," replied Sun. "I am invulnerable, I am immortal, I can
change myself into seventy-two different forms, I can ride on the clouds of Heaven and pass
through the air at will, with one leap I can traverse a hundred and eight thousand li."

"Well," replied Buddha, "have a match with me; I wager that in one leap you cannot even jump
out of the palm of my hand. If you succeed I will bestow upon you the sovereignty of Heaven."

Broad-jump Competition

Sun rose into space, flew like lightning in the great vastness, and reached the confines of
Heaven, opposite the five great red pillars which are the boundaries of the created universe.
On one of them he wrote his name, as irrefutable evidence that he could reach this extreme
limit; this done, he returned triumphant to demand of Buddha the coveted inheritance.

"But, wretch," said Buddha, "you never went out of my hand!"

"How is that?" rejoined Sun. "I went as far as the pillars of Heaven, and even took the precaution
of writing my name on one of them as proof in case of need."

"Look then at the words you have written," said Buddha, lifting a finger on which Sun read
with stupefaction his name as he had inscribed it.

Buddha then seized Sun, transported him out of Heaven, and changed his five fingers into the
five elements, metal, wood, water, fire, and earth, which instantly formed five high mountains
contiguous to each other. The mountains were called Wu Hsing Shan, and Buddha shut Sun up in them.

Conditions of Release

Thus subdued, Sun would not have been able to get out of his stone prison but for the intercession
of Kuan Yin P'u-sa, who obtained his release on his solemn promise that he would serve as guide,
philosopher, and friend to Hsüan Chuang, the priest who was to undertake the difficult journey
of 108,000 li to the Western Heaven. This promise, on the whole, he fulfilled in the service
of Hsüan Chuang during the fourteen years of the long journey. Now faithful, now restive and
undisciplined, he was always the one to triumph in the end over the eighty-one fantastical
tribulations which beset them as they journeyed.

Sha Ho-shang

One of the principal of Sun's fellow-servants of the Master was Sha Ho-shang.

He is depicted wearing a necklace of skulls, the heads of the nine Chinese deputies sent in
former centuries to find the Buddhist canon, but whom Sha Ho-shang had devoured on the banks
of Liu-sha River when they had attempted to cross it.

He is also known by the name of Sha Wu-ching, and was originally Grand Superintendent of the
Manufactory of Stores for Yü Huang's palace. During a great banquet given on the Peach Festival
to all the gods and Immortals of the Chinese Olympus he let fall a crystal bowl, which was
smashed to atoms. Yü Huang caused him to be beaten with eight hundred blows, drove him out
of Heaven, and exiled him to earth. He lived on the banks of the Liu-sha Ho, where every seventh
day a mysterious sword appeared and wounded him in the neck. Having no other means of subsistence,
he used to devour the passers-by.

Sha Ho-shang becomes Baggage-coolie

When Kuan Yin passed through that region on her way to China to find the priest who was predestined
to devote himself to the laborious undertaking of the quest of the sacred Buddhist books, Sha
Ho-shang threw himself on his knees before her and begged her to put an end to all his woes.

The goddess promised that he should be delivered by the priest, her envoy, provided he would
engage himself in the service of the pilgrim. On his promising to do this, and to lead a better
life, she herself ordained him priest. In the end it came about that Hsüan Chuang, when passing
the Sha Ho, took him into his suite as coolie to carry his baggage. Yü Huang pardoned him in
consideration of the service he was rendering to the Buddhist cause.

Chu Pa-chieh

Chu Pa-chieh is a grotesque, even gross, personage, with all the instincts of animalism. One
day, while he was occupying the high office of Overseer-general of the Navigation of the Milky
Way, he, during a fit of drunkenness, vilely assaulted the daughter of Yü Huang. The latter
had him beaten with two thousand blows from an iron hammer, and exiled to earth to be reincarnated.

During his transition a mistake was made, and entering the womb of a sow he was born half-man,
half-pig, with the head and ears of a pig and a human body. He began by killing and eating
his mother, and then devoured his little porcine brothers. Then he went to live on the wild
mountain Fu-ling Shan, where, armed with an iron rake, he first robbed and then ate the travellers
who passed through that region.

Mao Êrh-chieh, who lived in the cave Yün-chan Tung, engaged him as carrier of her personal
effects, which she afterward bequeathed to him.

Yielding to the exhortations of the Goddess Kuan Yin, who, at the time of her journey to China,
persuaded him to lead a less dissolute life, he was ordained a priest by the goddess herself,
who gave him the name of Chu (Pig), and the religious name of Wu-nêng, 'Seeker after Strength.'
This monster was knocked down by Sun when the latter was passing over the mountain accompanied
by Hsüan Chuang, and he declared himself a disciple of the pilgrim priest. He accompanied him
throughout the journey, and was also received in the Western Paradise as a reward for his aid
to the Buddhist propaganda.

Hsüan Chuang, the Master

The origin of this priest was as follows: In the reign of the Emperor T'ai Tsung of the T'ang
dynasty, Ch'ên Kuang-jui, a graduate of Hai Chou, in his examination for the doctor's degree
came out as chuang yüan, first on the list. Wên Chiao (also named Man-t'ang Chiao), the daughter
of the minister Yin K'ai-shan, meeting the young academician, fell in love with him, and married
him. Several days after the wedding the Emperor appointed Ch'ên Kuang-jui Governor of Chiang
Chou (modern Chên-chiang Fu), in Kiangsu. After a short visit to his native town he started
to take up his post. His old mother and his wife accompanied him. When they reached Hung Chou
his mother fell sick and they were forced to stay for a time at the Inn of Ten Thousand Flowers,
kept by one Liu Hsiao-êrh. Days passed; the sickness did not leave her, and as the time for
her son to take over the seals of office was drawing near, he had to proceed without her.

The Released Carp

Before his departure he noticed a fisherman holding in his hand a fine carp; this he bought
for a small sum to give to his mother. Suddenly he noticed that the fish had a very extraordinary
look, and, changing his mind, he let it go in the waters of the Hung Chiang, afterward telling
his mother what he had done. She congratulated him on his action, and assured him that the
good deed would not go unrewarded.

The Chuang Yüan Murdered

Ch'ên Kuang-jui re-entered his boat with his wife and a servant. They were stopped by the chief
waterman, Liu Hung, and his assistant. Struck with the great beauty of Ch'ên Kuang-jui's wife,
the former planned a crime which he carried out with the help of his assistant. At the dead
of night he took the boat to a retired spot, killed Ch'ên and his servant, threw their bodies
into the river, seized his official documents of title and the woman he coveted, passed himself
off as the real chuang yüan, and took possession of the magistracy of Chiang Chou. The widow,
who was with child, had two alternatives--silence or death. Meantime she chose the former.
Before she gave birth to her child, T'ai-po Chin-hsing, the Spirit of the South Pole Star,
appeared to her, and said he had been sent by Kuan Yin, the Goddess of Mercy, to present her
with a son whose fame would fill the Empire. "Above all," he added, "take every precaution
lest Liu Hung kill the child, for he will certainly do so if he can." When the child was born
the mother, during the absence of Liu Hung, determined to expose it rather than see it slain.
Accordingly she wrapped it up carefully in a shirt, and carried it to the bank of the Blue
River. She then bit her finger, and with the blood wrote a short note stating the child's origin,
and hid it in its breast. Moreover, she bit off the infant's left little toe, as an indelible
mark of identity. No sooner had this been done than a gust of wind blew a large plank to the
river's edge. The poor mother tied her infant firmly to this plank and abandoned it to the
mercy of the waves. The waif was carried to the shore of the isle of Chin Shan, on which stands
the famous monastery of Chin-shan Ssu, near Chinkiang. The cries of the infant attracted the
attention of an old monk named Chang Lao, who rescued it and gave it the name of Chiang Liu,
'Waif of the River.' He reared it with much care, and treasured the note its mother had written
with her blood. The child grew up, and Chang Lao made him a priest, naming him Hsüan Chuang
on the day of his taking the vows. When he was eighteen years of age, having one day quarrelled
with another priest, who had cursed him and reproached him with having neither father nor mother,
he, much hurt, went to his protector Chang Lao. The latter said to him: "The time has come
to reveal to you your origin." He then told him all, showed him the note, and made him promise
to avenge his assassinated father. To this end he was made a roving priest, went to the official
Court, and eventually got into touch with his mother, who was still living with the prefect
Liu Hung. The letter placed in his bosom, and the shirt in which he had been wrapped, easily
proved the truth of his statements. The mother, happy at having found her son, promised to
go and see him at Chin Shan. In order to do this, she pretended to be sick, and told Liu Hung
that formerly, when still young, she had taken a vow which she had not yet been able to fulfil.
Liu Hung himself helped her to do so by sending a large gift of money to the priests, and allowed
her to go with her servants to perform her devotions at Chin-shan Ssu. On this second visit,
during which she could speak more freely with her son, she wished to see for herself the wound
she had made on his foot. This removed the last shadow of doubt.

Hsüan Chuang finds his Grandmother

She told Hsüan Chuang that he must first of all go to Hung Chou and find his grandmother, formerly
left at the Inn of Ten Thousand Flowers, and then on to Ch'ang-an to take to her father Yin
K'ai-shan a letter, putting him in possession of the chief facts concerning Liu Hung, and praying
him to avenge her.

She gave him a stick of incense to take to her mother-in-law. The old lady lived the life of
a beggar in a wretched hovel near the city gate, and had become blind from weeping. The priest
told her of the tragic death of her son, then touched her eyes with the stick of incense, and
her sight was restored. "And I," she exclaimed, "have so often accused my son of ingratitude,
believing him to be still alive!" He took her back to the Inn of Ten Thousand Flowers and settled
the account, then hastened to the palace of Yin K'ai-shan. Having obtained an audience, he
showed the minister the letter, and informed him of all that had taken place.

The Murderer Executed

The following day a report was presented to the Emperor, who gave orders for the immediate
arrest and execution of the murderer of Ch'ên Kuang-jui.

Yin K'ai-shan went with all haste to Chên-chiang, where he arrived during the night, surrounded
the official residence, and seized the culprit, whom he sent to the place where he had committed
the murder. His heart and liver were torn out and sacrificed to the victim.

The Carp's Gratitude

Now it happened that Ch'ên Kuang-jui was not dead after all. The carp released by him was in
fact no other than Lung Wang, the God of the River, who had been going through his kingdom
in that guise and had been caught in the fisherman's net. On learning that his rescuer had
been cast into the river, Lung Wang had saved him, and appointed him an officer of his Court.
On that day, when his son, wife, and father-in-law were sacrificing the heart of his assassin
to his manes on the river-bank, Lung Wang ordered that he return to earth. His body suddenly
appeared on the surface of the water, floated to the bank, revived, and came out full of life
and health. The happiness of the family reunited under such unexpected circumstances may well
be imagined. Ch'ên Kuang-jui returned with his father-in-law to Chên-chiang, where he took
up his official post, eighteen years after his nomination to it.

Hsüan Chuang became the Emperor's favourite priest. He was held in great respect at the capital,
and had innumerable honours bestowed upon him, and in the end was chosen for the journey to
the Western Paradise, where Buddha in person handed him the sacred books of Buddhism.

Pai Ma, the White Horse

When he left the capital, Hsüan Chuang had been presented by the Emperor with a white horse
to carry him on his long pilgrimage. One day, when he reached Shê-p'an Shan, near a torrent,
a dragon emerged from the deep river-bed and devoured both the horse and its saddle. Sun tried
in vain to find the dragon, and at last had to seek the aid of Kuan Yin.

Now Yü Lung San T'ai-tzu, son of Ao Jun, Dragonking of the Western Sea, having burnt a precious
pearl on the roof of his father's palace, was denounced to Yü Huang, who had him beaten with
three hundred blows and suspended in the air. He was awaiting death when Kuan Yin passed on
her way to China. The unfortunate dragon requested the goddess to have pity on him, whereupon
she prevailed upon Yü Huang to spare his life on condition that he served as steed for her
pilgrim on the expedition to the Western Paradise. The dragon was handed over to Kuan Yin,
who showed him the deep pool in which he was to dwell while awaiting the arrival of the priest.
It was this dragon who had devoured Hsüan Chuang's horse, and Kuan Yin now bade him change
himself into a horse of the same colour to carry the priest to his destination. He had the
honour of bearing on his back the sacred books that Buddha gave to T'ai Tsung's deputy, and
the first Buddhist temple built at the capital bore the name of Pai-ma Miao, 'Temple of the
White Horse.'

Perils by the Way

It is natural to expect that numberless exciting adventures should befall such an interesting
quartette, and indeed the Hsi yu chi, which contains a hundred chapters, is full of them. The
pilgrims encountered eighty difficulties on the journey out and one on the journey home. The
following examples are characteristic of the rest.

The Grove of Cypress-trees

The travellers were making their way westward through shining waters and over green hills,
where they found endless luxuriance of vegetation and flowers of all colours in profusion.
But the way was long and lonely, and as darkness came on without any sign of habitation the
Priest said: "Where shall we find a resting-place for the night?" The Monkey replied: "My Master,
he who has left home and become a priest must dine on the wind and lodge on the water, lie
down under the moon and sleep in the forest; everywhere is his home; why then ask where shall
we rest?" But Pa-chieh, who was the bearer of the pilgrim's baggage, was not satisfied with
this reply, and tried to get his load transferred to the horse, but was silenced when told
that the latter's sole duty was to carry the Master.

However, the Monkey gave Pai Ma a blow with his rod, causing him to start forward at a great
pace, and in a few minutes from the brow of a hill Hsüan Chuang espied in the distance a grove
of cypress-trees, beneath the shade of which was a large enclosure. This seemed a suitable
place to pass the night, so they made toward it, and as they approached observed in the enclosure
a spacious and luxurious establishment. There being no indications that the place was then
inhabited, the Monkey made his way inside.

A Proposal of Marriage

He was met by a lady of charming appearance, who came out of an inner room, and said: "Who
is this that ventures to intrude upon a widow's household?" The situation was embarrassing,
but the lady proved to be most affable, welcomed them all very heartily, told them how she
became a widow and had been left in possession of riches in abundance, and that she had three
daughters, Truth, Love, and Pity by name. She then proceeded to make a proposal of marriage,
not only on behalf of herself, but of her three daughters as well. They were four men, and
here were four women; she had mountain lands for fruit-trees, dry lands for grain, flooded
fields for rice--more than five thousand acres of each; horses, oxen, sheep, pigs innumerable;
sixty or seventy farmsteads; granaries choked with grain; storehouses full of silks and satins;
gold and silver enough to last several lifetimes however extravagantly they lived. Why should
the four travellers not finish their journey there, and be happy ever afterward? The temptation
was great, especially as the three daughters were ladies of surpassing beauty as well as adepts
at needlework and embroidery, well read, and able to sing sweetly.

But Hsüan Chuang sat as if listening to frogs after rain, unmoved except by anger that she
should attempt to divert him from his heavenly purpose, and in the end the lady retired in
a rage, slamming the door behind her.

The covetous Pa-chieh, however, expressed himself in favour of accepting the widow's terms.
Finding it impossible to do so openly, he stole round to the back and secured a private interview.
His personal appearance was against him, but the widow was not altogether uncompliant. She
not only entertained the travellers, but agreed to Pa-chieh retiring within the household in
the character of a son-in-law, the other three remaining as guests in the guest-rooms.

Blind Man's Buff

But a new problem now arose. If Pa-chieh were wedded to one of the three daughters, the others
would feel aggrieved. So the widow proposed to blindfold him with a handkerchief, and marry
him to whichever he succeeded in catching. But, with the bandage tied over his eyes, Pa-chieh
only found himself groping in darkness. "The tinkling sound of female trinkets was all around
him, the odour of musk was in his nostrils; like fairy forms they fluttered about him, but
he could no more grasp one than he could a shadow. One way and another he ran till he was too
giddy to stand, and could only stumble helplessly about."

The prospective mother-in-law then unloosed the bandage, and informed Pa-chieh that it was
not her daughters' 'slipperiness,' as he had called it, which prevented their capture, but
the extreme modesty of each in being generous enough to forgo her claims in favour of one of
her sisters. Pa-chieh thereupon became very importunate, urging his suit for any one of the
daughters or for the mother herself or for all three or all four. This was beyond all conscience,
but the widow was equal to the emergency, and suggested another solution. Each of her daughters
wore a waistcoat embroidered in jewels and gold. Pa-chieh was to try these on in turn, and
to marry the owner of the one which fitted him. Pa-chieh put one on, but as he was tying the
cord round his waist it transformed itself into strong coils of rope which bound him tightly
in every limb. He rolled about in excruciating agony, and as he did so the curtain of enchantment
fell and the beauties and the palace disappeared.

Next morning the rest of the party on waking up also found that all had changed, and saw that
they had been sleeping on the ground in the cypress-grove. On making search they found Pa-chieh
bound fast to a tree. They cut him down, to pursue the journey a sadder and wiser Pig, and
the butt of many a quip from his fellow-travellers.

The Lotus Cave

When the party left the Elephant Country, seeing a mountain ahead, the Master warned his disciples
to be careful. Sun said: "Master, say not so; remember the text of the Sacred Book, 'So long
as the heart is right there is nothing to fear.'" After this Sun kept a close watch on Pa-chieh,
who, while professing to be on guard, slept most of the time. When they arrived at Ping-ting
Shan they were approached by a woodcutter, who warned them that in the mountain, which extended
for 600 li (200 miles), there was a Lotus Cave, inhabited by a band of demons under two chiefs,
who were lying in wait to devour the travellers. The woodcutter then disappeared. Accordingly,
Pa-chieh was ordered to keep watch. But, seeing some hay, he lay down and went to sleep, and
the mountain demons carried him away to the Lotus Cave.

On seeing Pa-chieh, the second chief said: "He is no good; you must go in search of the Master
and the Monkey." All this time the Monkey, to protect his Master, was walking ahead of the
horse, swinging his club up and down and to right and left. The Demon-king saw him from the
top of the mountain and said to himself: "This Monkey is famous for his magic, but I will prove
that he is no match for me; I will yet feast on his Master." So, descending the mountain, he
transformed himself into a lame beggar and waited by the roadside. The Master, out of pity,
persuaded the Monkey to carry him. While on the Monkey's back the Demon, by magic skill, threw
Mount Mêru on to Sun's head, but the Monkey warded it off with his left shoulder, and walked
on. Then the Demon threw Mount Ô-mei on to Sun's head, and this he warded off with his right
shoulder, and walked on, much to the Demon's surprise. Lastly the Demon caused T'ai Shan to
fall on to his head. This at last stunned the Monkey. Sha Ho-shang now defended the Master
with his staff, which was, however, no match for the Demon's starry sword. The Demon seized
the Master and carried him under one arm and Sha Ho-shang under the other to the Lotus Cave.

The two Demons then planned to take their two most precious things, a yellow gourd and a jade
vase, and try to bottle the Monkey. They arranged to carry them upside down and call out the
Monkey's name. If he replied, then he would be inside, and they could seal him up, using the
seal of the great Ancient of Days, the dweller in the mansion of T'ai Sui. [35]

The Monkey under the Mountain

When the Monkey found that he was being crushed under the mountain he was greatly distressed
about his Master, and cried out: "Oh, Master, you delivered me from under the mountain before,
and trained me in religion; how is it that you have brought me to this pass? If you must die,
why should Sha Ho-shang and Pa-chieh and the Dragon-horse also suffer?" Then his tears poured
down like rain.

The spirits of the mountain were astonished at hearing these words. The guardian angels of
the Five Religions asked: "Whose is this mountain, and who is crushed beneath it?" The local
gods replied: "The mountain is ours, but who is under it we do not know." "If you do not know,"
the angels replied, "we will tell you. It is the Great Holy One, the Equal of Heaven, who rebelled
there five hundred years ago. He is now converted, and is the disciple of the Chinese ambassador.
How dare you lend your mountain to the Demon for such a purpose?" The guardian angels and local
gods then recited some prayers, and the mountain was removed. The Monkey sprang up, brandishing
his spear, and the spirits at once apologized, saying that they were under enforced service
to the Demons.

While they were speaking Sun saw a light approaching, and asked what it was. The spirits replied:
"This light comes from the Demons' magic treasures. We fear they are bringing them to catch
you." Sun then said: "Now we shall have some sport. Who is the Demon-chief's associate?" "He
is a Taoist," they replied, "who is always occupied in preparing chemicals." The Monkey said:
"Leave me, and I will catch them myself." He then transformed himself into a duplicate of the
Taoist.

The Magic Gourd

Sun went to meet the Demons, and in conversation learnt from them that they were on their way
to catch the famous Monkey, and that the magic gourd and vase were for that purpose. They showed
these treasures to him, and explained that the gourd, though small, could hold a thousand people.
"That is nothing," replied Sun. "I have a gourd which can contain all the heavens." At this
they marvelled greatly, and made a bargain with him, according to which he was to give them
his gourd, after it had been tested as to its capacity to contain the heavens, in exchange
for their precious gourd and vase. Going up to Heaven, the Monkey obtained permission to extinguish
the light of the sun, moon, and stars for one hour. At noon the next day there was complete
darkness, and the Demons believed Sun when he stated that he had put the whole heavens into
his gourd so that there could be no light. They then handed over to the Monkey their magic
gourd and vase, and in exchange he gave them his false gourd.

The Magic Rope

On discovering that they had been deceived, the Demons made complaint to their chiefs, who
informed them that Sun, by pretending to be one of the Immortals, had outwitted them. They
had now lost two out of their five magic treasures. There remained three, the magic sword,
the magic palm fan, and the magic rope. "Go," said they, "and invite our dear grandmother to
come and dine on human flesh." Personating one of the Demons, Sun himself went on this errand.
He told the old lady that he wanted her to bring with her the magic rope, with which to catch
Sun. She was delighted, and set out in her chair carried by two fairies.

When they had gone some few li, Sun killed the ladies, and then saw that they were foxes. He
took the magic rope, and thus had three of the magic treasures. Having changed the dead so
that they looked like living creatures, he returned to the Lotus Cave. Many small demons came
running up, saying that the old lady had been slain. The Demon-king, alarmed, proposed to release
the whole party. But his younger brother said: "No, let me fight Sun. If I win, we can eat
them; if I fail, we can let them go."

After thirty bouts Sun lost the magic rope, and the Demon lassoed him with it and carried him
to the cave, and took back the magic gourd and vase. Sun now transformed himself into two false
demons. One he placed instead of himself in the lasso bound to a pillar, and then went and
reported to the second Demon-chief that Sun was struggling hard, and that he should be bound
with a stronger rope lest he make his escape. Thus, by this strategy, Sun obtained possession
of the magic rope again. By a similar trick he also got back the magic gourd and vase.

The Master Rescued

Sun and the Demons now began to wrangle about the respective merits of their gourds, which,
each assured the other, could imprison men and make them obey their wishes. Finally, Sun succeeded
in putting one of the Demons into his gourd.

There ensued another fight concerning the magic sword and palm fan, during which the fan was
burnt to ashes. After more encounters Sun succeeded in bottling the second Demon in the magic
vase, and sealed him up with the seal of the Ancient of Days. Then the magic sword was delivered,
and the Demons submitted. Sun returned to the cave, fetched his Master out, swept the cave
clean of all evil spirits, and they then started again on their westward journey. On the road
they met a blind man, who addressed them saying: "Whither away, Buddhist Priest? I am the Ancient
of Days. Give me back my magic treasures. In the gourd I keep the pills of immortality. In
the vase I keep the water of life. The sword I use to subdue demons. With the fan I stir up
enthusiasm. With the cord I bind bundles. One of these two Demons had charge of the gold crucible.
They stole my magic treasures and fled to the mundane sphere of mortals. You, having captured
them, are deserving of great reward." But Sun replied: "You should be severely punished for
allowing your servants to do this evil in the world." The Ancient of Days replied: "No, without
these trials your Master and his disciples could never attain to perfection."

Sun understood and said: "Since you have come in person for the magic treasures, I return them
to you." After receiving them, the Ancient of Days returned to his T'ai Sui mansion in the skies.

The Red Child Demon

By the autumn the travellers arrived at a great mountain. They saw on the road a red cloud
which the Monkey thought must be a demon. It was in fact a demon child who, in order to entrap
the Master, had had himself bound and tied to the branch of a tree. The child repeatedly cried
out to the passers-by to deliver him. Sun suspected that it was a trick; but the Master could
no longer endure the pitiful wails; he ordered his disciples to loose the child, and the Monkey
to carry him.

As they proceeded on their way the Demon caused a strong whirlwind to spring up, and during
this he carried off the Master. Sun discovered that the Demon was an old friend of his, who,
centuries before, had pledged himself to eternal friendship. So he consoled his comrades by
saying that he felt sure no harm would come to the Master.

A Prospective Feast

Soon Sun and his companions reached a mountain covered with pine-forests. Here they found the
Demon in his cave, intent upon feasting on the Priest. The Demon refused to recognize his ancient
friendship with Sun, so the two came to blows. The Demon set fire to everything, so that the
Monkey might be blinded by the smoke. Thus he was unable to find his Master. In despair he
said: "I must get the help of some one more skilful than myself." Pa-chieh was sent to fetch
Kuan Yin. The Demon then seized a magic bag, transformed himself into the shape of Kuan Yin,
and invited Pa-chieh to enter the cave. The simpleton fell into the trap and was seized and
placed in the bag. Then the Demon appeared in his true form, and said: "I am the beggar child,
and mean to cook you for my dinner. A fine man to protect his Master you are!" The Demon then
summoned six of his most doughty generals and ordered them to accompany him to fetch his father,
King Ox-head, to dine off the pilgrim. When they had gone Sun opened the bag, released Pa-chieh,
and both followed the six generals.

The Generals Tricked

Sun thought that as the Demon had played a trick on Pa-chieh, he would play one on his generals.
So he hurried on in front of them, and changed himself into the form of King Ox-head. The Demon
and his generals were invited into his presence, and Red Child said: "If anyone eats of the
pilgrim's flesh, his life will be prolonged indefinitely. Now he is caught and I invite you
to feast on him." Sun, personifying the father, said: "No, I cannot come. I am fasting to-day.
Moreover, Sun has charge of the pilgrim, and if any harm befall him it will be the worse for
you, for he has seventy-two magic arts. He can make himself so big that your cave cannot contain
him, and he can make himself as small as a fly, a mosquito, a bee, or a butterfly."

Sun then went to Kuan Yin and appealed for help. She gave him a bottle, but he found he could
not move it. "No," said Kuan Yin, "for all the forces of the ocean are stored in it."

Kuan Yin lifted it with ease, and said: "This dew water is different from dragon water, and
can extinguish the fire of passion. I will send a fairy with you on your boat. You need no
sails. The fairy needs only to blow a little, and the boat moves along without any effort."
Finally, the Red Child, having been overcome, repented and begged to be received as a disciple.
Kuan Yin received him and blessed him, giving him the name of Steward.

The Demons of Blackwater River

One day the Master suddenly exclaimed: "What is that noise?" Sun replied: "You are afraid;
you have forgotten the Heart Prayer, according to which we are to be indifferent to all the
calls of the six senses--the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, mind. These are the Six Thieves.
If you cannot suppress them, how do you expect to see the Great Lord?" The Master thought a
while and then said: "O disciple, when shall we see the Incarnate Model (Ju Lai) face to face?"

Pa-chieh said: "If we are to meet such demons as these, it will take us a thousand years to
get to the West." But Sha Ho-shang rejoined: "Both you and I are stupid; if we persevere and
travel on, shoulder to shoulder, we shall reach there at last." While thus talking, they saw
before them a dark river in flood, which the horse could not cross. Seeing a small boat, the
Master said: "Let us engage that boat to take us across." While crossing the river in it, they
discovered that it was a boat sent by the Demon of Blackwater River to entrap them in midstream,
and the Master would have been slain had not Sun and the Western Dragon come to the rescue.

The Slow-carts Country

Having crossed the Blackwater River, they journeyed westward, facing wind and snow. Suddenly
they heard a great shout as of ten thousand voices. The Master was alarmed, but Sun laughingly
went to investigate. Sitting on a cloud, he rose in the air, and saw a city, outside of which
there were thousands of priests and carts laden with bricks and all kinds of building materials.
This was the city where Taoists were respected, and Buddhists were not wanted. The Monkey,
who appeared among the people as a Taoist, was informed that the country was called the Ch'ê
Ch'ih, 'Slow-carts Country,' and for twenty years had been ruled by three Taoists who could
procure rain during times of drought. Their names were Tiger, Deer, and Sheep. They could also
command the wind, and change stones into gold. The Monkey said to the two leading Taoists:
"I wonder if I shall be so fortunate as to see your Emperor?" They replied: "We will see to
that when we have attended to our business." The Monkey inquired what business the priests
could have. "In former times," they said, "when our King ordered the Buddhists to pray for
rain, their prayers were not answered. Then the Taoists prayed, and copious showers fell. Since
then all the Buddhist priests have been our slaves, and have to carry the building materials,
as you see. We must assign them their work, and then will come to you." Sun replied: "Never
mind; I am in search of an uncle of mine, from whom I have not heard for many years. Perhaps
he is here among your slaves." They said: "You may see if you can find him."

Restraints on Freedom

Sun went to look for his uncle. Hearing this, many Buddhist priests surrounded him, hoping
to be recognized as his lost relative. After a while he smiled. They asked him the reason.
He said: "Why do you make no progress? Life is not meant for idleness." They said: "We cannot
do anything. We are terribly oppressed." "What power have your masters?" "By using their magic
they can call up wind or rain." "That is a small matter," said Sun. "What else can they do?"
"They can make the pills of immortality, and change stone into gold."

Sun said: "These are also small matters; many can do the same. How did these Taoists deceive
your King?" "The King attends their prayers night and day, expecting thereby to attain to immortality."
"Why do you not leave the place?" "It is impossible, for the King has ordered pictures of us
to be hung up everywhere. In all the numerous prefectures, magistracies, and market-places
in Slow-carts Country are pictures of the Buddhist priests, and any official who catches a
runaway priest is promoted three degrees, while every non-official receives fifty taels. The
proclamation is signed by the King. So you see we are helpless." Sun then said: "You might
as well die and end it all."

Immortal for Suffering

They replied: "A great number have died. At one time we numbered more than two thousand. But
through deaths and suicides there now remain only about five hundred. And we who remain cannot
die. Ropes cannot strangle us, swords cannot cut us; if we plunge into the river we cannot
sink; poison does not kill us." Sun said: "Then you are fortunate, for you are all Immortals."
"Alas!" said they, "we are immortal only for suffering. We get poor food. We have only sand
to sleep on. But in the night hours spirits appear to us and tell us not to kill ourselves,
for an Arhat will come from the East to deliver us. With him there is a disciple, the Great
Holy One, the Equal of Heaven, most powerful and tender-hearted. He will put an end to these
Taoists and have pity on us Buddhists."

The Saviour of the Buddhists

Inwardly Sun was glad that his fame had gone abroad. Returning to the city, he met the two
chief Taoists. They asked him if he had found his relative. "Yes," he replied, "they are all
my relatives!" They smiled and said: "How is it that you have so many relatives?" Sun said:
"One hundred are my father's relatives, one hundred my mother's relatives, and the remainder
my adopted relatives. If you will let all these priests depart with me, then I will enter the
city with you; otherwise I will not enter." "You must be mad to speak to us in this way. The
priests were given us by the King. If you had asked for a few only, we might have consented,
but your request is altogether unreasonable." Sun then asked them three times if they would
liberate the priests. When they finally refused, he grew very angry, took his magic spear from
his ear and brandished it in the air, when all their heads fell off and rolled on the ground.

Anger of the Buddhist Priests

The Buddhist priests saw from a distance what had taken place, and shouted: "Murder, murder!
The Taoist superintendents are being killed." They surrounded Sun, saying: "These priests are
our masters; they go to the temple without visiting the King, and return home without taking
leave of the King. The King is the high priest. Why have you killed his disciples? The Taoist
chief priest will certainly accuse us Buddhist priests of the murders. What are we to do? If
we go into the city with you they will make you pay for this with your life."

Sun laughed. "My friends," he said, "do not trouble yourselves over this matter. I am not the
Master of the Clouds, but the Great Holy One, a disciple of the Holy Master from China, going
to the Western Paradise to fetch the sacred books, and have come to save you."

"No, no," said they, "this cannot be, for we know him." Sun replied: "Having never met him,
how can you know him?" They replied: "We have seen him in our dreams. The spirit of the planet
Venus has described him to us and warned us not to make a mistake." "What description did he
give?" asked Sun. They replied: "He has a hard head, bright eyes, a round, hairy face without
cheeks, sharp teeth, prominent mouth, a hot temper, and is uglier than the Thunder-god. He
has a rod of iron, caused a disturbance in Heaven itself, but later repented, and is coming
with the Buddhist pilgrim in order to save mankind from calamities and misery." With mixed
feelings Sun replied: "My friends, no doubt you are right in saying I am not Sun. I am only
his disciple, who has come to learn how to carry out his plans. But," he added, pointing with
his hand, "is not that Sun coming yonder?" They all looked in the direction in which he had
pointed.

Sun bestows Talismans

Sun quickly changed himself from a Taoist priest, and appeared in his natural form. At this
they all fell down and worshipped him, asking his forgiveness because their mortal eyes could
not recognize him. They then begged him to enter the city and compel the demons to repent.
Sun told them to follow him. He then went with them to a sandy place, emptied two carts and
smashed them into splinters, and threw all the bricks, tiles, and timber into a heap, calling
upon all the priests to disperse. "Tomorrow," he said, "I am going to see the King, and will
destroy the Taoists!" Then they said: "Sir, we dare not go any farther, lest they attempt to
seize you and cause trouble." "Have no fear," he replied; "but if you think so I will give
you a charm to protect you." He pulled out some hairs, and gave one to each to hold firmly
on the third finger. "If anyone tries to seize you," he said, "keep tight hold of it, call
out 'Great Holy One, the Equal of Heaven,' and I will at once come to your rescue, even though
I be ten thousand miles away." Some of them tried the charm, and, sure enough, there he was
before them like the God of Thunder. In his hand he held a rod of iron, and he could keep ten
thousand men and horses at bay.

The Magic Circle

It was now winter. The pilgrims were crossing a high mountain by a narrow pass, and the Master
was afraid of wild beasts. The three disciples bade him fear not, as they were united, and
were all good men seeking truth. Being cold and hungry they rejoiced to see a fine building
ahead of them, but Sun said: "It is another devil's trap. I will make a ring round you. Inside
that you will be safe. Do not wander outside it. I will go and look for food." Sun returned
with his bowl full of rice, but found that his companions had got tired of waiting, and had
disappeared. They had gone forward to the fine building, which Pa-chieh entered. Not a soul
was to be seen, but on going upstairs he was terrified to see a human skeleton of immense size
lying on the floor. At this moment the Demon of the house descended on them, bound the Master,
and said: "We have been told that if we eat of your flesh our white hair will become black
again, and our lost teeth grow anew." So he ordered the small devils who accompanied him to
bind the others. This they did, and thrust the pilgrims into a cave, and then lay in wait for
Sun. It was not long before the Monkey came up, when a great fight ensued. In the end, having
failed, notwithstanding the exercise of numerous magic arts, to release his companions, Sun
betook himself to the Spiritual Mountain and besought Ju Lai's aid. Eighteen lohan were sent
to help him against the Demon. When Sun renewed the attack, the lohan threw diamond dust into
the air, which blinded the Demon and also half buried him. But, by skilful use of his magic
coil, he gathered up all the diamond dust and carried it back to his cave.

The lohan then advised Sun to seek the aid of the Ancient of Days. Accordingly, Sun ascended
to the thirty-third Heaven, where was the palace of the god. He there discovered that the Demon
was none other than one of the god's ox-spirits who had stolen the magic coil. It was, in fact,
the same coil with which Sun himself had at last been subdued when he had rebelled against Heaven.

Help from Ju Lai

The Ancient of Days mounted a cloud and went with Sun to the cave. When the Demon saw who had
come he was terrified. The Ancient of Days then recited an incantation, and the Demon surrendered
the magic coil to him. On the recitation of a second incantation all his strength left him,
and he appeared as a bull, and was led away by a ring in his nose. The Master and his disciples
were then set at liberty, and proceeded on their journey.

The Fire-quenching Fan

In the autumn the pilgrims found themselves in the Ssu Ha Li Country, where everything was
red--red walls, red tiles, red varnish on doors and furniture. Sixty li from this place was
the Flaming Mountain, which lay on their road westward.

An old man they met told them that it was possible to cross the Flaming Mountain only if they
had the Magic Iron Fan, which, waved once, quenched fire, waved a second time produced strong
wind, and waved a third time produced rain. This magic fan was kept by the Iron-fan Princess
in a cave on Ts'ui-yün Shan, 1500 li distant. On hearing this, Sun mounted a cloud, and in
an instant was transported to the cave. The Iron-fan Princess was one of the lochas (wives
and daughters of demons), and the mother of the Red Child Demon, who had become a disciple
of Kuan Yin. On seeing Sun she was very angry, and determined to be revenged for the outwitting
of her husband, King Ox-head, and for the carrying away of her son. The Monkey said: "If you
lend me the Iron Fan I will bring your son to see you." For answer she struck him with a sword.
They then fell to fighting, the contest lasting a long while, until at length, feeling her
strength failing, the Princess took out the Iron Fan and waved it. The wind it raised blew
Sun to a distance of 84,000 li, and whirled him about like a leaf in a whirlwind. But he soon
returned, reinforced by further magic power lent him by the Buddhist saints. The Princess,
however, deceived him by giving him a fan which increased the flames of the mountain instead
of quenching them. Sun and his friends had to retreat more than 20 li, or they would have been
burned.

The local mountain-gods now appeared, bringing refreshments, and urging the pilgrims to get
the Fan so as to enable them to proceed on their journey. Sun pointed to his fan and said:
"Is not this the Fan?" They smiled and said: "No, this is a false one which the Princess has
given you." They added: "Originally there was no Flaming Mountain, but when you upset the furnace
in Heaven five hundred years ago the fire fell here, and has been burning ever since. For not
having taken more care in Heaven, we have been set to guard it. The Demon-king Ox-head, though
he married the locha Princess, deserted her some two years ago for the only daughter of a fox-king.
They live at Chi-lei Shan, some three thousand li from here. If you can get the true Iron Fan
through his help you will be able to extinguish the flames, take your Master to the West, save
the lives of many people round here, and enable us to return to Heaven once more."

Sun at once mounted a cloud and was soon at Chi-lei Shan. There he met the Fox-princess, whom
he upbraided and pursued back to her cave. The Ox-demon came out and became very angry with
Sun for having frightened her. Sun asked him to return with him to the locha Princess and persuade
her to give him the Magic Fan, This he refused to do. They then fought three battles, in all
of which Sun was successful. He changed into the Ox-demon's shape and visited the locha Princess.
She, thinking he was the Ox-demon, gladly received him, and finally gave him the Magic Fan;
he then set out to return to his Master.

The Power of the Magic Fan

The Ox-demon, following after Sun, saw him walking along, joyfully carrying the Magic Fan on
his shoulder. Now Sun had forgotten to ask how to make it small, like an apricot leaf, as it
was at first. The Ox-demon changed himself into the form of Pa-chieh, and going up to Sun he
said: "Brother Sun, I am glad to see you back; I hope you have succeeded." "Yes," replied Sun,
and described his fights, and how he had tricked the Ox-demon's wife into giving him the Fan.
The seeming Pa-chieh said: "You must be very tired after all your efforts; let me carry the
Magic Fan for you." As soon as he had got possession of it he appeared in his true form, and
tried to use it to blow Sun away 84,000 li, for he did not know that the Great Holy One had
swallowed a wind-resisting pill, and was therefore immovable. He then put the Magic Fan in
his mouth and fought with his two swords. He was a match for Sun in all the magic arts, but
through the aid of Pa-chieh and the help of the local gods sent by the Master the Monkey was
able to prevail against him. The Ox-demon changed himself many times into a number of birds,
but for each of these Sun changed himself into a swifter and stronger one. The Ox-demon then
changed himself into many beasts, such as tigers, leopards, bears, elephants, and an ox 10,000
feet long. He then said to Sun, with a laugh: "What can you do to me now?" Sun seized his rod
of iron, and cried: "Grow!" He immediately became 100,000 feet high, with eyes like the sun
and moon. They fought till the heavens and the earth shook with their onslaughts.

Defeat of the Ox-demon

The Ox-demon being of so fierce and terrible a nature, both Buddha in Heaven and the Taoist
Celestial Ruler sent down whole legions of celebrated warriors to help the Master's servant.
The Ox-demon tried to escape in every direction, one after the other, but his efforts were
in vain. Finally defeated, he was made to promise for himself and his wife to give up their
evil ways and to follow the holy precepts of the Buddhist doctrine.

The Magic Fan was given to Sun, who at once proceeded to test its powers. When he waved it
once the fires on Flaming Mountain died out. When he waved it a second time a gentle breeze
sprang up. When he waved it a third time refreshing rain fell everywhere, and the pilgrims
proceeded on their way in comfort.

The Lovely Women

Having travelled over many mountains, the travellers came to a village. The Master said: "You,
my disciples, are always very kind, taking round the begging-bowl and getting food for me.
To-day I will take the begging-bowl myself." But Sun said: "That is not right; you must let
us, your disciples, do this for you." But the Master insisted.

When he reached the village, there was not a man to be seen, but only some lovely women. He
did not think that it was right for him to speak to women. On the other hand, if he did not
procure anything for their meal, his disciples would make fun of him. So, after long hesitation,
he went forward and begged food of them. They invited him to their cave home, and, having learnt
who he was, ordered food for him, but it was all human flesh. The Master informed them that
he was a vegetarian, and rose to take his departure, but instead of letting him go they surrounded
and bound him, thinking that he would be a fine meal for them next day.

An Awkward Predicament

Then seven of the women went out to bathe in a pool. There Sun, in search of his Master, found
them and would have killed them, only he thought it was not right to kill women. So he changed
himself into an eagle and carried away their clothes to his nest. This so frightened the women
that they crouched in the pool and did not dare to come out.

But Pa-chieh, also in search of his Master, found the women bathing. He changed himself into
a fish, which the women tried to catch, chasing him hither and thither round the pool. After
a while Pa-chieh leapt out of the pool and, appearing in his true form, threatened the women
for having bound his Master. In their fright the women fled to a pavilion, round which they
spun spiders' threads so thickly that Pa-chieh became entangled and fell. They then escaped
to their cave and put on some clothes.

How the Master was Rescued

When Pa-chieh at length had disentangled himself from the webs, he saw Sun and Sha Ho-shang
approaching. Having learnt what had happened, they feared the women might do some injury to
the Master, so they ran to the cave to rescue him. On the way they were beset by the seven
dwarf sons of the seven women, who transformed themselves into a swarm of dragon-flies, bees,
and other insects. But Sun pulled out some hairs and, changing them into seven different swarms
of flying insects, destroyed the hostile swarm, and the ground was covered a foot deep with
the dead bodies. On reaching the cave, the pilgrims found it had been deserted by the women.
They released the Master, and made him promise never to beg for food again. Having given the
promise, he mounted his horse, and they proceeded on their journey.

The Spiders and the Extinguisher

When they had gone a short distance they perceived a great building of fine architecture ahead
of them. It proved to be a Taoist temple. Sha Ho-shang said: "Let us enter, for Buddhism and
Taoism teach the same things. They differ only in their vestments." The Taoist abbot received
them with civility and ordered five cups of tea. Now he was in league with the seven women,
and when the servant had made the tea they put poison in each cup. Sun, however, suspected
a conspiracy, and did not drink his tea. Seeing that the rest had been poisoned, he went and
attacked the sisters, who transformed themselves into huge spiders. They were able to spin
ropes instead of webs with which to bind their enemies. But Sun attacked and killed them all.

The Taoist abbot then showed himself in his true form, a demon with a thousand eyes. He joined
battle with Sun, and a terrible contest ensued, the result being that the Demon succeeded in
putting an extinguisher on his enemy. This was a new trick which Sun did not understand. However,
after trying in vain to break out through the top and sides, he began to bore downward, and,
finding that the extinguisher was not deep in the ground, he succeeded in effecting his escape
from below. But he feared that his Master and the others would die of the poison. At this juncture,
while he was suffering mental tortures on their behalf, a Bodhisattva, Lady Pi Lan, came to
his rescue. By the aid of her magic he broke the extinguisher, gave his Master and fellow-disciples
pills to counteract the poison, and so rescued them.

Shaving a Whole City

