Far over the dark fields, I looked towards the German lines, and, now and then, in the distance
I saw a flare-light appear for a moment and then die away. Now and again, along our nine-mile
front, I saw the flash of a gun and heard the distant report of a shell. It looked as if the
war had gone to sleep, but we knew that all along the line our trenches were bristling with
energy and filled with men animated with one resolve, with one fierce determination. It is
no wonder that to those who have been in the war and passed through such moments, ordinary
life and literature seem very tame. The thrill of such a moment is worth years of peace-time
existence. To the watcher of a spectacle so awful and sublime, even human companionship struck
a jarring note. I went over to a place by myself where I could not hear the other men talking,
and there I waited. I watched the luminous hands of my watch get nearer and nearer to the fateful
moment, for the barrage was to open at five-thirty. At five-fifteen the sky was getting lighter
and already one could make out objects distinctly in the fields below. The long hand of my
watch was at five-twenty-five. The fields, the roads, and the hedges were beginning to show
the difference of colour in the early light. Five-twenty-seven! In     (p. 168) three minutes
the rain of death was to begin. In the awful silence around it seemed as if Nature were holding
her breath in expectation of the staggering moment. Five-twenty-nine! God help our men! Five-thirty!
With crisp sharp reports the iron throats of a battery nearby crashed forth their message of
death to the Germans, and from three thousand guns at that moment the tempest of death swept
through the air. It was a wonderful sound. The flashes of guns in all directions made lightnings
in the dawn. The swish of shells through the air was continuous, and far over on the German
trenches I saw the bursts of flame and smoke in a long continuous line, and, above the smoke,
the white, red and green lights, which were the S.O.S. signals from the terrified enemy. In
an instant his artillery replied, and against the morning clouds the bursting shrapnel flashed.
Now and then our shells would hit a German ammunition dump, and, for a moment, a dull red light
behind the clouds of smoke, added to the grandeur of the scene. I knelt on the ground and prayed
to the God of Battles to guard our noble men in that awful line of death and destruction, and
to give them victory, and I am not ashamed to confess that it was with the greatest difficulty
I kept back my tears. There was so much human suffering and sorrow, there were such tremendous
issues involved in that fierce attack, there was such splendour of human character being manifested
now in that "far flung line," where smoke and flame mocked the calm of the morning sky, that
the watcher felt he was gazing upon eternal things.

When it got thoroughly light I determined to go on up the road to the 3rd Artillery Brigade
which was to press on after the infantry. I found both officers and men very keen and preparing
to advance. For weeks at night, they had been making bridges over the trenches, so that the
guns could be moved forward rapidly on the day of the attack. I had breakfast with the O.C.
of one of the batteries, a young fellow only twenty-three years of age who had left McGill
to enter the war. He was afterwards killed in front of Arras. After breakfast I went on up
the line till I came to the 3rd Artillery Brigade Headquarters, and there asked for the latest
reports of progress. They were feeling anxious because the advancing battalions had given no
signal for some time, and it was thought that they might have been held up. Someone, however
looked at his watch and then at the schedule time of attack, and found that at that particular
moment the men were to rest for  (p. 169) ten minutes before pressing on. The instant the time
for advance came, rockets were sent up to show that our men were still going ahead. I went
up the road to Neuville St. Vaast, where there was an aid post, and there I saw the wounded
coming in, some walking, with bandaged arms and heads, and some being brought in on stretchers.
They were all in high spirits and said that the attack had been a great success. Of course,
the walking wounded were the first to appear, the more serious cases came afterwards, but still
there was the note of triumph in all the accounts of the fighting which I heard. I moved on
to a track near Maison Blanche, and then followed up the men. The ridge by this time was secured
and our front line was still pressing forward on the heels of the retreating Germans. It was
a glorious moment. The attack which we had looked forward to and prepared for so long had been
successful. The Germans had been taken by surprise and the important strategic point which
guarded the rich coal fields of Northern France was in our possession.

The sight of the German trenches was something never to be forgotten. They had been strongly
held and had been fortified with an immense maze of wire. But now they were ploughed and shattered
by enormous shell holes. The wire was twisted and torn and the whole of that region looked
as if a volcanic upheaval had broken the crust of the earth. Hundreds of men were now walking
over the open in all directions. German prisoners were being hurried back in scores. Wounded
men, stretcher-bearers and men following up the advance were seen on all sides, and on the
ground lay the bodies of friends and foes who had passed to the Great Beyond. I met a British
staff officer coming back from the front, who told me he belonged to Army Headquarters. He
asked me if I was a Canadian, and when I replied that I was, he said, "I congratulate you upon
it." I reminded him that British artillery were also engaged in the attack and should share
in the glory. "That may be", he said, "but, never since the world began have men made a charge
with finer spirit. It was a magnificent achievement."

Our burial parties were hard at work collecting the bodies of those who had fallen, and the
chaplains were with them. I met some of the battalions, who, having done their part in the
fighting, were coming back. Many of them had suffered heavily and the mingled feelings   (p.
170) of loss and gain chastened their exaltation and tempered their sorrow. I made my way over
to the ruins of the village of Thélus on our left, and there I had my lunch in a shell hole
with some men, who were laughing over an incident of the attack. So sudden had been our advance
that a German artillery officer who had a comfortable dugout in Thélus, had to run away before
he was dressed. Two of our men had gone down into the dugout and there they found the water
in the wash-basin still warm and many things scattered about in confusion. They took possession
of everything that might be of use including some German war maps, and were just trying to
get a very fine telephone when two other of our men hearing voices in the dugout and thinking
the enemy might still be there, threw down a smoke bomb which set fire to the place. The invaders
had to relinquish their pursuit of the telephone and beat a hasty retreat. Smoke was still
rising from the dugout when I saw it and continued to do so for a day or two.

Our signallers were following up the infantry and laying wires over the open. Everyone was
in high spirits. By this time the retreating Germans had got well beyond the crest of the Ridge
and across the valley. It was about six o'clock in the evening when I reached our final objective,
which was just below the edge of the hill. There our men were digging themselves in. It was
no pleasant task, because the wind was cold and it was beginning to snow. The prospect of spending
a night there was not an attractive one, and every man was anxious to make the best home for
himself he could in the ground. It was wonderful to look over the valley. I saw the villages
of Willerval, Arleux and Bailleul-sur-Berthouit. They looked so peaceful in the green plain
which had not been disturbed as yet by shells. The church spires stood up undamaged like those
of some quiet hamlet in England. I thought, "If we could only follow up our advance and keep
the Germans on the move," but the day was at an end and the snow was getting heavier. I saw
far off in the valley, numbers of little grey figures who seemed to be gradually gathering
together, and I heard an officer say he thought the Germans were preparing for a counter-attack.
Our men, however, paid little attention to them. The pressing question of the moment was how
to get a comfortable and advantageous position for the night. Canadians never showed up better
than at such times. They were so quiet and determined and bore their hardships with a spirit
of good nature which rested on something sounder and more   (p. 171) fundamental than even
pleasure in achieving victory. About half-past six, when I started back, I met our Intelligence
Officer, V.C., D.S.O., coming up to look over the line. He was a man who did much but said
little and generally looked very solemn. I went up to him and said, "Major, far be it from
me, as a man of peace and a man of God, to say anything suggestive of slaughter, but, if I
were a combatant officer, I would drop some shrapnel in that valley in front of our lines."
Just the faint flicker of a smile passed over his countenance and he replied, "We are shelling
the valley." "No," I said, "Our shells are going over the valley into the villages beyond,
and the Germans in the plain are getting ready for a counter-attack. I could see them with
my naked eyes." "Well." he replied, "I will go and look."

Later on when I was down in a German dugout which had been turned into the headquarters of
our advanced artillery brigade, and was eating the half tin of cold baked beans which my friend,
the C.O. had failed to consume, I had the satisfaction of hearing the message come through
on the wires, that our artillery had to concentrate its fire on the valley, as the Germans
were preparing for a counter-attack. When I left the warm comfortable dugout, I found that
it was quite dark and still snowing. My flashlight was of little use for it only lit up the
snowflakes immediately in front of me, and threw no light upon my path. I did not know how
I should be able to get back in the darkness through the maze of shell holes and broken wire.
Luckily a signaller came up to me and seeing my plight led me over to a light railway track
which had just been laid, and told me that if I kept on it I should ultimately get back to
the Arras-Bethune road. It was a hard scramble, for the track was narrow and very slippery,
and had to be felt with the feet rather than seen with the eyes. I was terribly tired, for
I had had a long walk and the excitement of the day and talking to such numbers of men had
been very fatiguing. To add to my difficulties, our batteries lay between me and the road and
were now in full action. My old dread of being killed by our own guns seemed to be justified
on the present occasion. Gun flashes came every few seconds with a blinding effect, and I thought
I should never get behind those confounded batteries. I had several tumbles in the snow-covered
mud, but there was nothing to be done except to struggle on and trust to good luck to get through.
When at last I reached   (p. 172) the road I was devoutly thankful to be there and I made my
way to the dugout of the signallers, where I was most kindly received and hospitably entertained,
in spite of the fact that I kept dropping asleep in the midst of the conversation. One of our
signal officers, in the morning, had gone over with some men in the first wave of the attack.
He made directly for the German signallers' dugout and went down with his followers, and, finding
about forty men there, told them they were his prisoners. They were astonished at his appearance,
but he took possession of the switch-board and told them that the Canadians had captured the
Ridge. One of the Germans was sent up to find out, and returned with the report that the Canadians
held the ground. Our men at once took possession of all the telegraph instruments and prevented
information being sent back to the enemy in the rear lines. Having done this, our gallant Canadians
ordered the prisoners out of the dugout and then sat down and ate the breakfast which they
had just prepared. This was only one of many deeds of cool daring done that day. On one occasion
the Germans were running so fast in front of one of our battalions that our men could not resist
following them. They were actually rushing into the zone of our own fire in order to get at
them. A gallant young lieutenant, who afterwards won the V.C., seeing the danger, with great
pluck, ran in front of the men and halted them with the words, "Stop, Boys, give the barrage
a chance."

In spite of the numbers of wounded and dying men which I had seen, the victory was such a complete
and splendid one that April 9th, 1917, was one of the happiest days in my life, and when I
started out from the signallers dugout on my way back to Ecoivres, and passed the hill where
I had seen the opening of the great drama in the early morning, my heart was full of thankfulness
to Almighty God for his blessing on our arms. I arrived at my room in the Château at about
half past two a.m., very tired and very happy. I made myself a large cup of strong coffee,
on my primus stove, ate a whole tin of cold baked beans, and then turned in to a sound slumber,
filled with dreams of victory and glory, and awoke well and fit in the morning, more than ever
proud of the grand old First Division which, as General Horne told us later, had made a new
record in British war annals by taking every objective on the scheduled dot of the clock.

CHAPTER XVII.                                                      (p. 173)

A MONTH ON THE RIDGE.

April to May, 1917.

The great drawback to a victory in a war of movement, which we were told we were now engaged
in, is that, after an advance, one has to follow up the line, and consequently, comfortable
billets have to be exchanged for broken down shacks in the forward area. Not many days after
our men had taken Vimy Ridge, Divisional Headquarters had to move up to the Arras-Bethune road
and occupy a chalk cave which was known as the Labyrinth. It had once been the scene of fierce
fighting between the French and the Germans. Deep down, in passages scooped out of the chalk
were the various offices of the division and the billets for the staff. The place was very
much crowded, and I quickly perceived that the last person whose society was wanted there was
the Senior Chaplain. Having taken the situation in at a glance, I made my way to my friend
the Staff Captain of the Artillery, and he very kindly invited me to share with him and another
officer, the little dugout he had chosen for himself. It was entered by a narrow passage cut
through the chalk in the side of the trench, and the roof consisted of a large semi-circular
piece of iron under the ground. We had three beds and a table, and so were comfortable. When
one stood on the earth which covered our roof, it was impossible to see any suggestion of a
home underneath. Nothing was in sight but the wide expanse of rolling country cut up on all
sides by trenches and shell holes, and wearing a sort of khaki uniform of light brown mud.
To the east of us, lay the road bordered with leafless and battered trees, past which went
an interminable line of lorries, guns and limbers. We were very comfortable, and at night when
the winds were blowing and the rain was coming down in sheets, it was not half bad after dinner
to read aloud Tennyson's "Ulysses" or other of my favourite poems. I am not sure that I did
not at times, relying upon the inclemency of the weather overhead, recite some of my own. I
know that one morning, when I had awakened at about four o'clock, I turned on the light of
a storage battery which I had found in a German dugout, and sitting up wrote the verses which
I called "The Silent Toast" and which my    (p. 174) artillery friends approved of when I recited
them at breakfast.

The aftermath of victory is of course very sad. Many were the gallant men whose bodies were
laid to rest in the little cemetery at Ecoivres. The cemetery is well kept and very prettily
situated. The relatives of those who are buried there will be pleased to find the graves so
carefully preserved. The large crucifix which stands on a mound near the gate is most picturesquely
surrounded by trees. In the mound some soldier, probably a Frenchman, had once made a dugout.
The site was evidently chosen with the idea that crucifixes were untouched by shells, and therefore
places of refuge from danger. I often thought, as I looked at the crucifix with the human shelter
beneath it, that it might stand as a symbol of the hymn:--

  "Rock of Ages cleft for me
  Let me hide myself in Thee."

The engineers had had a dump for their material near the Bethune-Arras road, and when they
moved it forward to a place called the "Nine Elms," the engineer officer gave me his dugout,
which was partly beside the road and partly under it. It consisted of several rooms, one of
which contained a bed, and had steps going down to a deep chamber whither one could retire
in case of shelling. It was good to have such a large and comfortable establishment, and when
Alberta was chained up in her corner and I had strapped myself into my kit bag at night, we
both felt very snug. The only trouble was that visitors kept coming at all hours to ask for
engineering materials, not knowing that the character of the abode had changed. Early one morning,
an officer came in a great hurry, and waking me up, asked if there were any winches there,--he
pronounced the word like wenches. I sat up in bed and looked at him sternly, and said, "Young
man, this is a religious establishment, I am the Senior Chaplain, and there are no wenches
here." He did not know quite what to make of the situation. "I mean wooden ones," he said.
I replied, "Young man, there are no wenches here, either wooden or any other kind; the engineers
have gone forward." He apologized and left. On another occasion, in the darkness of middle
night, an Imperial soldier who had lost his way came down the steps and put his head into my
door and began to stammer and hiss in such an extraordinary way that Alberta was roused and
barked    (p. 175) furiously. I woke up with a start and asked what the matter was, but all
I could get from the poor man was a series of noises and hisses. I turned on my flashlight,
and a very muddy face covered with a shock of red hair looked in at the door of my little room,
and with many contortions and winkings, emitted a series of incomprehensible noises. What with
the stammering man and the barking dog, I was at my wits end to find out the trouble. At last
by a process of synthesis, I pieced the various sounds together and found that the man wanted
the location of a certain British battery. I gave him the best information I could.

Not far from me, at Arriane Dump, the Chaplain's Service established a coffee stall, and there
men who were going up to or coming from the line could get coffee, biscuits and cigarettes
at all hours. The neighbourhood had now become so safe that little huts were being run up in
various places. I asked our C.R.E. to build me a church, and, to my great joy, an officer and
some men were detailed to put up a little structure of corrugated iron. At one end, over the
entrance door, there was a belfry in which was hung a good sized German gas bell found in the
trenches on our advance. Surmounting the belfry, was a cross painted with luminous paint. Inside
the church, I had an altar with crucifix and candlesticks, and the Union Jack for a frontal.
I also had a lectern and portable organ. The oiled linen in the windows let in a sufficient
quantity of light, and the whole place was thoroughly church-like. I shall never forget the
first service we held in it when the building was completed. It was in the evening and the
sun was just setting. The air was balmy and spring-like and there was no shelling in the front
line. The bell was rung and the congregation began to collect. I went over to the church and
there I found, lying wrapped in a blanket on a stretcher beside the building, the body of a
poor lad of the 2nd Division. It could not be buried until word had been received from his
battalion. I got some of the men to carry the stretcher in and lay it in the aisle. I put on
my cassock and surplice, lit the candles, and we had choral evensong, my organist playing the
responses. The little church was filled, and there, in the midst of us, was one who had entered
into his rest. It seemed to me that the most suitable hymn was:--

  "Let saints on earth in concert sing
    With those whose work is done,
  For all the servants of our King                                 (p. 176)
    In heaven and earth are one.

All present sang the hymn most heartily, and we felt its appropriateness. I never hear it now
without thinking of that evening service in St. George's Church at Arriane Dump. To those at
home, I suppose, it will appear strange that an incident of that kind would not be almost too
moving. At the front, however, death did not seem to be such a terrible thing--it was part
of our life and something to be expected and met uncomplainingly. Every morning, until we moved,
I had a Celebration of the Holy Communion in the church at eight o'clock, and every evening
I had Evensong at six. I was told long afterwards that when General Horne paid his first visit
to our Battle Headquarters, he pointed to the little iron structure with its belfry and white
cross, and asked what it was. When they told him it was a church, he said, "A church! Now I
know why the Canadians won Vimy Ridge." Unfortunately, the point of the observation was lost
by the fact that the church was built, not before, but after we had taken the Ridge.

When we left Arriane Dump, I handed over the church to the Senior Chaplain of the British division
which took our place, and he had the building taken down, put in lorries, and re-erected in
the village of Roclincourt, where he adorned it with a painted window of St. George and the Dragon.

Along the Arras-Bethune road are various cemeteries where the men of the different battalions
are buried. The greatest care was taken in collecting the dead and making their last resting
place as neat and comely as possible. A plank road was constructed to connect the Bethune-Arras
road with the Lens-Arras road further forward. It lay in a straight line over the broken ground
cut up by trenches and huge craters, and brought one to the headquarters of the siege battery
in which my son was a gunner. On all sides stretched the plain which our men had won. Far off,
on clear days, one could see in the distance the little hamlets behind the German lines.

We had taken the Ridge, but there were villages in the plain which were not yet in our hands.
I heard there was to be an attack one   (p. 177) morning early. So the night before, I left
my dugout at one a.m. It was a strange, weird walk along the plank road and then down the railway
track to Farbus wood. The barrage was to open at four-thirty, and at four-ten a.m. I walked
into the dugout where the Headquarters of the 3rd Artillery Brigade were. We waited till four
twenty-five, and then I went up to see the barrage. Before us lay the plain, and all round
us on the hillside, except in the space before us, were trees of Farbus Wood. At four-thirty
the barrage opened, and we had a fine view of the line of bursting shells along the enemy's
front. For a time our fire was very intense, and when it eased off I started down the hill
to the town of Willerval, where in a dugout I found the officers of one of our battalions regaling
themselves with the bottles of wine and mineral water which the Germans had left behind them
in their well-stocked cellars. Willerval was badly smashed, but enough was left to show what
a charming place it must have been in the days before the war. In the shell-ploughed gardens,
spring flowers were putting up inquiring faces, and asking for the smiles and admiration of
the flower-lovers who would tread those broken paths no more. I sat in a quiet place by a ruined
brick wall and tried to disentangle the curious sensations which passed through the mind, as
I felt the breeze lightly fanning my face, smelt the scent of flowers, heard the skylarks singing,
saw the broken houses and conservatories, and listened to the shells which every now and then
fell on the road to the east of the village. That super-sensitiveness to the charms of nature,
which I have mentioned before, thrilled me with delight. The warm spring sun beat down from
a cloudless sky, and the glorious romance of being out in the war-zone added to the charm.

One of our ambulances had a dressing station in the cellars of the Château, and there were
a number of German prisoners there who were waiting their turn as stretcher bearers. From Willerval
I went to the dressing station in the sunken road, where one of our chaplains was hard at work
rendering assistance to the wounded. We had taken Arleux, but of course had to pay the price,
and over the fields in different directions one could see stretchers being carried, bearing
their loads of broken and suffering bodies. Our grand old Division never failed in taking its
objective, and later on, we advanced from Arleux to Fresnoy, which completed for us our campaign
on Vimy Ridge. The Divisions   (p. 178) on each side of us were held up, but when we left the
Ridge we handed over Fresnoy to our successors in the line. Later, they were obliged to relinquish
it.

There is something splendid in the esprit-de-corps of a Division, and none could be greater
than that which animated all the units of the 1st Canadian Division, or as we were called,
"the boys of the old red patch," from the red patch which we wore as a distinguishing mark
upon our arms.

On May 4th, orders came to us that we had to move, and at night I walked over the old plank
road to say good-bye to my son--for their battery was to retain its position--and on the next
day, followed by little Alberta, I rode from Arriane Dump to my old billet in Bruay, breaking
the journey by a visit to the 87th Battalion at Château de la Haie. We had returned to our
old quarters covered with glory, and, on all sides, the French people were sincere in their
admiration for what the Canadian Corps had done. It was certainly delightful to get back to
clean billets, and to be able to enjoy the charming spring weather on roads that were not shelled
and in fields that were rich in the promise of summer. Our Headquarters once again made their
home in the Administration Building in the square, and the usual round of entertaining went
on. During the daytime, battalions practised the noble art of open warfare. The sense of "Something
accomplished, something done," inspired our men with the ardour of military life, and bound
us all even closer together in the spirit of valiant comradeship.

CHAPTER XVIII.                                                     (p. 179)

A WELL-EARNED REST.

May and June, 1917.

Three days after we had settled at Bruay I was invited by one of our staff officers and the
Colonel of one of our battalions to accompany them on a visit to our old trenches on the Somme.
We left in the morning and went south, over the roads and past the little villages which we
knew so well, till we came to Albert. We went up the Bapaume road, now deserted and lonely.
Our front line was some miles to the east, and so all that waste of country over which we had
fought was now without inhabitants. We left the motor near Courcellette and walked over the
fields to the old trenches where the First Brigade had made their attack. It was a dreary day.
Low clouds hung over the sky and a cold wind blew from the east. Spring had made very little
advance in those wide fields of death, and the grass was hardly green, where there was any
grass. We walked over the well-known tracks reviewing incidents of the great battle. We crossed
Death Valley and saw our old lines. The place was so solemn that by mutual agreement we did
not talk, but each went off by himself. I found a number of Canadian and German bodies still
unburied, and all over the fields were rifles and mess tins, spades and bits of accoutrement.
One could hardly imagine a scene more desolate and forlorn. Every inch of that ground had been
fought over and bought with the price of human blood. The moan of the wind over the fields
seemed like the great lament of Nature for her sons who had gone. It was impossible to identify
the bodies we found, but we knew that burial parties would soon set to work to collect them.
Over each poor brown and muddy form I held a short service and used the form of committal from
the burial office in our prayer-book.

It was with a sense of relief that we walked back up the road, past the ruins of Courcelette,
and rejoined the motor. The scene was too painful, and made too great a pull upon the heart-strings.
In the great army of the slain that lay beneath that waste of mud were many whom we had known
and loved with that peculiar love which binds comrades in the fighting line to one another--

  "God rest you valiant Gentlemen                                  (p. 180)
  Who sleep beneath that ground."

Once more, at the end of the month, I paid another visit to Regina Trench, when I was on my
way to place a cross over my son's grave in the cemetery at Tara Hill. By this time, the grass
was green, the trenches were filling up and in the cloudless blue sky larks were singing. The
impression of dreariness was passing away, and the wounds on the breast of nature were being
healed.

Our life at Bruay as usual was exceedingly pleasant, and the men thoroughly enjoyed the beauty
and the freshness of the country. Games and sports were indulged in and the nightly entertainments
in the theatre given by our concert party were most enjoyable.

I shall never forget the happy rides on Dandy down the roads and across the fields to the various
battalions and artillery brigades. At every turn I would meet men whom I knew, and to shake
hands with those glorious lads who had done such great things for the world was an honour and
a privilege. In looking back to that time faces and places come before me, and I feel once
again the warm spring winds over the fields of France, and see the quaint old villages of Houdain,
Ruitz and Hallicourt where our various battalions were billetted. Sometimes, at exalted moments,
I had meals with generals in their comfortable quarters; sometimes with company officers; sometimes
with the non-coms, but I think the most enjoyable were those that I took with the men in dirty
cook-houses. With a dish-cloth they would wipe off some old box for a chair, another for a
table; then, getting contributions of cutlery, they would cook me a special dinner and provide
me with a mess-tin of strong hot tea. When the meal was over and cigarettes had been lighted,
general conversation was indulged in, and there would be talks of home, of war experiences,
and many discussions of religion and politics. One question which was asked me again and again
in trenches and dugouts and billets was--"Are we winning the war?" It may be hard for people
at home to realize how little our men knew of what was happening. The majority of them never
saw the newspapers, and of course the monotony of our life and the apparent hopelessness of
making any great advance was a puzzle to them. I never failed to take the question seriously
and give them, as far as I was able, a general idea of the aspect of the war on the various
fronts. In order to be able to do this I read "The Times" daily with great care. It was   (p.
181) really the only paper that one could depend on, and its marvellous influence on the conduct
of the campaign completely justified its claim to be still the exponent of British policy,
and its inherited right to the title of "The Thunderer."

Our artillery were still in the line along the Ridge, but our infantry brigades were all at
rest. It was proposed that we should have a thanksgiving service for victory with each brigade.
The Senior Chaplain of the Corps took the matter in hand with the Senior Chaplain of the Army.
A form of service was printed on slips of paper, and on Sunday, May 13th, we had services for
the three infantry brigades. It was a lovely warm day, and the services were held at the most
convenient points. The 2nd Brigade were assembled at Ruitz. It was a splendid sight. The 5th,
7th, 8th and 10th Battalions were drawn up in a great square, generals and staff officers were
present; a band played the hymns and the army chaplain gave us a most stirring address. The
next service was with the 1st Brigade in a field near Coupigny, where the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and
4th Battalions were drawn up, making a magnificent show of young, ardent and stalwart manhood.
The moment it was over the general and staff were motored over to the 3rd Brigade at Château-de-la-Haie.
Here were assembled the 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Battalions. General Horne attended this Service,
and, after the religious ceremony was over, gave an address. His admiration for the achievement
of our men was evidently sincere, and he always showed the deepest interest in everything connected
with the welfare of the Canadians.

Near Bruay on the way to Houdain were some large aerodromes and the headquarters of the squadron.
I had met their chaplain before at Armentieres when he was attached to the infantry. He very
kindly invited me up to his quarters, and several times I dined with him at the officers' mess.
He was the chaplain of several squadrons, and had to fly from one to another to take services
on Sundays after the manner of a true "sky pilot." He told me some splendid tales of the gallantry
of the young men to whom he had to minister. On one occasion the order was given that six German
observation balloons along the front line had to be brought down, for we were about to make
an advance. Six men were therefore, told off for this important but dangerous duty. The chaplain
told me that at once the question arose as to how they    (p. 182) were to dress for the encounter.
Should they wear old clothes or should they be arrayed in their best? They decided that if
they were brought down they would like, by their appearance, to do most credit to their squadron,
and so it was determined that they should wear their newest uniforms. He told me that to him,
who knew the dangers underlying the enterprise, it was most pathetic to see the young fellows
in the highest spirits getting themselves polished up as if they were going to an investiture
at Buckingham Palace. He had thought of having a service of Holy Communion for them, but there
was no time, so he saw them start off on their voyage telling them that he would follow them
with his prayers. The danger of such an undertaking was very great, as the planes had to fly
low over the German trenches and then rise up and attack the balloons. That night six young
airmen came to dinner in the mess as usual, but there were six observation balloons less in
the German lines.

One night when I went to dinner with the officers of the squadron I was placed at the right
hand of the O.C. He was late in arriving, and I wondered what sort of man would come to fill
the vacant chair. To my surprise, when we were half way through dinner, a young officer, not
much more than a boy came and took the seat and welcomed me to the mess. I asked him if he
were the Major. He said he was, and on his left breast were several decorations. I was just
going to make some remark about his youthful appearance when he said, "Now don't say it, Padré,
don't say I look young, I really can't help it." I had a long and interesting talk with him
about his work. He was full of enthusiasm, and his knowledge of men impressed me deeply. There
was a large number of officers at the table all under his command. I thought it was wonderful
that a man so young should have such a knowledge of human character. This war has certainly
shown that mellowed age is not such a necessary qualification for right judgment as we thought
it was. Old age has had its day, and the young world, that has just been born in the anguish
and travail of the old, must be "run" by young men who unite in themselves the qualities of
judgment and the love of adventure. The hut used as a mess-room was most artistically decorated,
and made a fine setting for the noble young fellows, who sat round the table chaffing one another
and laughing as if they never had to face death in the blinding mists of morning or the blazing
sun of noon, with the rain of shells and machine gun fire falling round them, as they    (p.
183) climbed higher and higher like skylarks into the wide vault of heaven.

On the first of June, we were ordered back to the line, and our Divisional Headquarters was
to be divided. The General and staff were to be at the advanced position in the huts and dugouts
on the La Targette road, and the non-combatant officers were to be billetted near Villers au
Bois in Château d'Acq, a comfortable modern house with a large garden on one side and a pleasant
tree-covered hill at the back. Here, to my surprise and delight, I found myself in possession
of a large front room with furniture in it that appeared almost gorgeous. I had one comfortable
night's sleep in it, but alas only one. On the next evening, when the full moon was shining
with that fateful power which she has of turning night into day and of guiding the flight of
hostile bombers, we were sitting smoking our cigars after dinner at the artillery headquarters
in the La Targette road, when suddenly we heard the pulsating buzzing of a German plane. At
once someone called out, "A Boche plane, put out the lights." In an instant the lights were
out, but the fatal moonlight shone with clear and cruel lustre. There was a huge crash, then
another, then another, then another, and someone said, "It has discharged its load." For a
few moments we waited in silence, then we heard the sound of voices and men calling for help.
I went across the open to the huts where the staff officers and the clerks lived. The German
plane kept buzzing round and round at a low altitude, the observer evidently trying to find
out what mischief he had done. To my dismay, I found that sixteen persons including the A.D.M.S.
and the Assistant to the A.P.M., had been wounded, two of them fatally. We could not use the
lights in attending to the wounded for the German airman was on the watch, and it was not until
he went away that we could get ambulances to carry them off.

The General did not think it was worth while to risk a second attack by remaining at the place,
so, in the middle of the night, with great dispatch the headquarters was moved back to the
Château, and instead of my occupying the mahogany bed in the front room, I found myself on
the floor of one of the huts in the garden. The General quite rightly and naturally taking
to himself the bed which I had left.

Château d'Acq was for many weeks and at different times our comfortable and delightful home.
There were many Nissen huts round the Château (p. 184) and under the beautiful trees on the
hillside. Here the different branches of the service had their offices, and the engineers built
for me a little house of tar paper lined with green canvas, over the door of which was painted
the sign "St. George's Rectory." The C.R.E. also built me a new St. George's Church on the
other side of the road. It was to be the chef d'oeuvre of his architectural skill, and to be
made as complete and perfect as possible. A compass was brought and the true east and west
found. The material of which the church was to be built was tar paper and scantling. The roof
was to be covered with corrugated iron. The belfry was to be hung this time with two German
gas bells, which were dignified with the title of a chime of bells. The windows, filled with
oiled linen, were to be pointed after the manner of Gothic architecture. The church was to
be cruciform, with a vestry on one side balanced by an organ chamber on the other. We had a
nice altar, with the legal ornaments, and an altar rail. We had a lectern, and the proper number
of benches for the congregation. We even had a font, which was carved out of chalk by the C.R.E.'s
batman and given as an offering to the church. The C.R.E., a most devout and staunch Presbyterian,
was proud of his architectural achievement and told me that now he had handed over to me a
complete church he wished every service which the Church of England could hold to be celebrated
in it. He said, "In addition to your usual services, I want men to be baptised, to be married,
and to be ordained in that church." When I protested that possibly no men could be found desiring
these offices, he replied, "The matter is perfectly simple. Like the centurion in the Bible,
I am a man under authority. All I have to do is to call up ten men and say 'Go and be baptised
tomorrow morning in Canon Scott's Church', and they will go. If they don't, they will be put
in the guard room. Then I will call up ten more men and say, 'Go and be married in Canon Scott's
church.' If they don't, I will put them in the guardroom. Then I will call up ten more men
and say, 'Go and be ordained in Canon Scott's church'. If they don't, I will put them in the
guard room." All this was said with perfect solemnity. As a matter of fact, when another division
was occupying Château d'Acq, a man really was baptised in the little church. It was used daily
for a time by the Roman Catholic Chaplain.

A photograph of the building is preserved in the Canadian War Records Office. The first morning
I rang the chime of bells for the early  (p. 185) service, our A.D.M.S. avowed that he, mistaking
the character of the sound, and supposing that it was a warning of a gas attack, sat up in
his bed in the sweltering heat and put on his gas helmet.

From Château d'Acq I used to go and take services for the siege artillery on the Lens-Arras
road, and also at the charmingly situated rest camp at Fresnicourt. We knew however that a
bombing raid might occur at Château d'Acq on any clear night. Whenever we heard German planes
in the air we always felt how unprotected we were, and it gave us a sense of relief when the
buzzing sound grew fainter and fainter and died off in the distance.

The cool green shade of the trees made a pleasant roof over our heads on the hot days of early
summer, and at dawn in the woods opposite we could hear the nightingales. Later on, the owner
of the Château sold some of the bigger trees, and we found on our return to it in the following
year that the beauty of the place had been destroyed, and the hillside looked like the scene
of a Canadian lumber camp. However, the rose-trees in the garden with their breath of sweetest
odour were a continual joy and delight to the soul.

CHAPTER XIX.                                                       (p. 186)

PARIS LEAVE.

June 1917.

My time for leave was due again, and as we were allowed to spend it in France without interfering
with the number of those who desired to see their friends in England, I determined to go to
Chamounix. I thought that the sight of a great natural wonder like Mont Blanc would have an
uplifting effect upon the mind, at a time when everything human seemed to be going to rack
and ruin. The white peaks of the Alps in their changeless purity against the blue of the infinite
sky seemed to me a vision which the soul needed. So I started off one lovely morning on my
way to Paris. I went by side-car to Amiens, where I took the train. It was a delightful expedition,
and I left with a good conscience, because our men were not expected to attack, and were in
a quiet sector of the line. The driver of the car, with the prospect of a good meal at Amiens
and a good tip, was in the best of humours. The air was sweet and fresh and the grass wore
its brightest green. The sunshine beat down from a cloudless sky, and when we paused for repairs,
as we had to do from time to time, birds' songs furnished us with a most enjoyable concert.
An expedition of this kind was made doubly charming by having in it a touch of adventure. When
we came to a village, at once the map had to be studied and the turns in the road noted. A
conversation with some of the villagers as we journeyed, always broke the sense of loneliness,
and gave us an insight into the feelings of the people. However, on this particular occasion,
I was not able to complete the journey to Amiens in the side-car. Either the car broke down,
or the driver preferred to go on by himself, for the thing came to a dead stop just as a car
from the Corps was about to pass us. The occupants kindly invited me to go on to Amiens with
them. It was a swifter way of continuing the journey and much more comfortable, so I said good-bye
to my original driver and started off with my new friends.

Amiens was a bustling place then and very unlike the Amiens I saw a little over a year later.
I started by train at six-thirty p.m., and at eight-thirty, after a pleasant journey, arrived
at Paris, where I went to the Hotel Westminster. On the next evening, I started off  (p. 187)
with some friends for Evians-les-Bains. The train was very full, and there were no berths in
the wagon-lit, so we had to stay up all night in a crowded first-class carriage. There was
an old French Curé at one end of the compartment, who, quite early in the evening, drew out
a silk handkerchief and covered his head and face therewith, leading us to suppose that he
had sunk into oblivion. We therefore carried on a very pleasant and vivacious conversation,
as the night was warm and we were not inclined to sleep. Suddenly the old Curé pulled off the
handkerchief and said in a gruff voice, "It is the time for sleeps and not for talks." and,
having uttered this stinging rebuke, re-covered his head and left us in penitent silence. We
arrived at Evians-les-Bains in good time, and went to a very charming hotel with a lovely view
of the Lake of Geneva in front. Unfortunately, I had hurt my foot some time before and it looked
as if it had got infected. Not wishing to be laid up so far from medical assistance, I decided
to return the same evening, which I did, and once more found myself at the Hotel Westminster.
I now determined to spend my leave in Paris. There were many of our men in the city at that
time. They were all in a very impecunious condition, for there was some difficulty in getting
their pay and, in Paris, money did not last long. I did my best to try and help them, and later
our system of payment was improved. It was perhaps just as well for some of them that their
money was short.

Poor old Paris looked very shabby to one who remembered her in former days with her clean streets
and many-fountained parks. She wore the air of shabby gentility. The streets were not clean;
the people were not well-dressed, the fountains no longer played. France had been hard hit
by the war, and the ruin and desolation of her eastern borders were reflected in the metropolis.
I spent most of my time in Paris trying to keep men straight, with more or less success. I
can imagine nothing worse for a lonely young fellow, who had taken his leave after weary months
in the front line, than to find himself in the midst of the heartless gaiety of the French
capital. On all sides the minions of vice, diseased in mind and body, lay in waiting for their
prey. To one who loved Canada and longed for the uplifting of the pure life of Canadian homes,
it was a spectacle which filled the heart with anxiety. Before I left Paris, I wrote a letter
to the Continental Daily Mail advocating the taking over of some hotels which could be turned
into hostels or clubs for soldiers while on leave. This, I am happy to  (p. 188) say was afterwards
done.

I met many of our men at the soldiers' tea-rooms called "A corner of Blighty" in the Place
Vendome, and I organized several dinner and theatre parties which went off very pleasantly.
When the men had companionship, they did not feel the lure of vice which came to them in moments
of loneliness. I met some interesting people in Paris, and at a Sunday luncheon in the charming
house of the Duchess de la M---- I met Madame ----, the writer of a series of novels of rather
lurid reputation. The authoress was a large person with rich orange-coloured hair, powdered
cheeks, and darkened eyelashes. She wore a large black hat, enormous solitaire pearl ear-rings,
and, as a symbol of her personal purity, was arrayed in white. She lamented the fact that women
writers were not allowed to visit the front. When I told her that Mrs. Humphrey Ward had been
there, she said, "Oh yes, they allowed her to go because they said she could write good English,
but she cannot get the ear of the American people in the way I can."

There were two or three French officers present, one of whom was an attaché at the Embassy
in Madrid. I was much impressed by their quiet dignified bearing, so typical of the chivalrous
heroism of France, and so unlike anything which we could look for in the officers of the German
Army. I could not help observing that the French were much depressed and filled with anxiety
as to the issue of the war. A French lady said to me "How can we go on much longer; our man-power
is nearly exhausted?" It is a supreme delight to me to think that that wonderful nation, which
suffered and bled so deeply and bore its wrongs so nobly, has now been avenged on the ruthless
enemy, and that the tricolour once more floats over Alsace and Lorraine. Profoundly patriotic
though we of the British Empire are, there is something in the patriotism of the French which
goes down into the deepest roots of the human soul. I remember once in the private burying
place of a noble family who owned a chateau not far from our front line, seeing a little child's
grave. The child had died in Canada at the age of two years, and its body had been brought
back to its ancestral resting place. On the tombstone, under the inscription were the words:--

  "Petit ange
  Priez pour
  la France."

I was very much struck by the prayer. That the sorrow for a        (p. 189) child's death should
be coupled with the love of country seemed most strange and pathetic. I venture to say that
it would be impossible to find a parallel instance of such a blending of emotions in any English
churchyard. The present owner of the Château, which was at least two or three hundred years
old, was away fighting for his country, and long grass and weeds filled the uncared for corner
by the side of the old church. In past history, we have fought with the French again and again,
but we always felt that we were fighting with gentlemen, and were sure that every courteous
deed done by us would meet with an equally courteous response. One of the saddest things in
the war was that, while we often admired the military efficiency of the Germans, we had absolutely
no respect for their officers or men, nor could we regard them as anything but well-trained
brutes. The ties which bind us to France now are very intimate and personal, and it is a matter
of thankfulness to all who love human idealism and true culture, that the reproach of the defeat
of 1870 has been washed away in blood, and that France will emerge from her fiery trial a purer
and a loftier nation.

I was not sorry when my Paris leave was over and I returned to my Headquarters at Château d'Acq.
It was always delightful to get back to my war home and settle down again in the midst of those
on whose shoulders the fate of civilization rested. I arrived back on June 29th, just in time
to prepare for the special services which were to be held throughout the Corps on Sunday, July
1st, it being the jubilee of the Dominion. I made arrangements with the band of the Royal Canadian
Regiment, as our Divisional band was away, to march over from Villers au Bois and play for
us at the service. We had special hymns and prayers neatly printed on cards, which the men
were to retain as souvenirs. The parade was held just outside St. George's Church, our new
Divisional Commander, General Macdonell, and his staff attending. The occasion was particularly
interesting to me, because I was the only man in the whole Canadian Corps at the front who
could remember the first Dominion Day. I could remember as a child being taken by my father
on the 1st of July, 1867, to hear the guns firing a salute on the grounds of McGill College,
Montreal. Canada had travelled a long distance on the path of nationhood since that far-off
time, and now, after fifty years, I had the satisfaction of being with the great  (p. 190)
Canadian Army Corps on European soil, engaged in the biggest war of history. Such an experience
is not often the privilege of a human life, and the splendid body of men before me gave promise
of Canada's progress and national glory in the future. Everyone felt the peculiar significance
of the celebration.

Owing to the fact that my foot was still troubling me, I was sent down to the rest-camp at
Fresnicourt, where I met many of the officers and men in that delightful old Château. The country
round about was very pretty, and the views from the hills were charming. Every night I used
to have either a service, or a talk with the men, on the grass beside a little stream. They
were all enjoying the rest and refreshment that came from being able to live in pleasant surroundings
and away from shells and work in the trenches. On July 18th, I went by side-car to St. Omer
where the Senior Chaplains of the Army were summoned to a conference. We were billeted in the
large building used as the Chaplains' Rest Home, and there enjoyed the great privilege, not
only of meeting one another, but of listening to some splendid addresses and lectures by those
in charge. It was pleasant to re-visit St. Omer. The quaint old French town, with its rambling
streets and polite inhabitants, took one away from the thoughts of war and gave one almost
a feeling of home. In the smoking-room at night, we had the opportunity of discussing with
one another the various moral and religious problems with which the chaplain had to contend,
and many were the interesting experiences of those chaplains. On the last day of our meetings,
at the early Eucharist, we had an address from the Archbishop of York, who had just come over
to France. Later on, he gave an address at a general meeting of the chaplains at Bethune.

While at St. Omer I paid a visit to the Second Army School in their magnificent buildings in
Wisques, where I saw the room that my son had occupied, and met some of the people who remembered
him. The place was used as a training school for officers and was most wonderfully equipped.
The building was a modern convent, and the large unfinished chapel, with its high vaulted roof,
was used as a dining-room. It was inspiring at dinner to see the hundreds of young officers,
all so keen and cheery, sitting round the tables, while a good band played during the meal.
It was hard to realize that they were only having a momentary respite from the war, and, in
a week or two, would be once more up in the line facing wounds and death. The Commandant took
great pride in the    (p. 191) institution, and told me of the splendid records of the men
who had passed through his hands.

Our Divisional Headquarters now moved to a place called Bracquemont, near Noeux les Mines.
Here I had a very fine room in the house of the manager of one of the Mines, the offices of
which were on the other side of the road. The house was well built, and had a most charming
garden at the back. It was large and commodious, and I always feared that my billet would attract
the covetous desires of some high staff officer and that I should be thrown out to make way
for him. My room was on the ground floor with two large windows opening on the street, enabling
me to get the Daily Mail from the newsboy in the morning. The ceiling was high and the furniture
most sumptuous. A large mirror stood upon the marble mantel-piece. I had linen sheets on the
bed and an electric light at my side. It did not seem at all like war, but the end of the mahogany
bed and some of the chairs, also one corner of the ceiling, had been perforated by bits of
shrapnel. So in the midst of luxury, there was the constant reminder that the war was still
going on--a death's head at the feast.

CHAPTER XX.                                                        (p. 192)

WE TAKE HILL 70.

July and August, 1917.

Bracquemont was a very charming home. There were many men about us, the artillery horse lines
were there as well as two battalions in rest, and various other units. Behind the British C.C.S.
there was a large hall with a stage at one end. Here our concert party gave a performance every
night. Between us and the front line, were the villages of Maroc, Le Brebis, Mazingarbe, and
Bully-Grenay, which were our billeting area while we occupied the trenches in advance of Loos.
I was thus in easy reach of all the units in the Division and could do a great deal of parish
visiting.

In the country behind us, there were many Chinese Labour Companies and one of Zulus. When not
at work, they were encamped in large compounds surrounded by barbed wire. Our band used to
play occasionally for the entertainment of the Chinese, who very much enjoyed both the music
and the compliment that was paid to them by its being provided. On one occasion, I went with
General Thacker to visit one of the Chinese Labour Companies. The officer in charge wished
us to see some of their sports, and so we sat on chairs at the top of the field and the Chinamen
came up and gave us an exhibition of their skill in something that looked like fencing. They
used sticks for foils. We could not quite see who won in the encounter, or what constituted
the finishing stroke, but, as soon as each pair of performers retired they turned and bowed
solemnly to the General and made way for two other combatants. They were great powerful men,
very different from the type of Chinese one sees in this country. One of the performers we
were told by the O.C., could carry a weight of five hundred pounds on his shoulders. After
the gymnastic performance, we had a concert, and a man sang, or rather made a hideous nasal
sound, to the accompaniment of something that looked like a three stringed fiddle. The song,
which greatly delighted the Chinese listeners, consisted of an interminable number of verses;
in fact we never heard the end of it, for the O.C. stopped it and told the musicians that the
officers had to leave. He told us that the men were well behaved, and that only once had he
had occasion to hold a court-martial.

The Zulus were encamped near Ranchicourt. They too were a stalwart (p. 193) lot of men, but
felt the cold of the winter very much. I was riding past them in the road one day and spoke
to the British sergeant in charge of them. He pointed out one young man who, he said, was the
son of a chief, and, in his own country, was entitled to a body-guard of fifteen men. In recognition,
therefore, of his aristocratic birth, he was allowed to wear three stripes. While we were talking,
the boy looked round and saw that we were speaking about him. The sergeant called out something
to him in Zulu language, and the boy smiled and nodded to me. I asked the sergeant what he
had said to him. He replied: "I told him that you thought you had met him before, and it pleased
him." This accounted for the boy's smiling at me and the nod of recognition. I suppose he thought
that on some occasion in my rambles through Africa we had met in the jungle. At any rate, I
admired the sergeant's tact and savoir faire. There was a great mixture of races among the
allied forces in France, and I always felt sorry for the poor heathen that they should be dragged
into the war of the Christian nations.

Our front trenches were not comfortable places. To reach them one had to pass through Maroc
and along a road on the outskirts of Loos. Beside the road, in the cellars of a broken building,
called Fort Glatz, was a dressing station. The neighbourhood was frequently shelled, for the
road from Maroc to Loos was under observation from the two mysterious iron towers in Wingles.
Beyond Fort Glatz, the engineers had a store of trench materials. The place was called "Crucifix
Dump," on account of the large crucifix which stood there on a mound of earth. The figure on
the crucifix was made of metal and it had been struck by shrapnel. It looked so pathetic standing
there amid the ruin and desolation around, mutely saying to those who had ears to hear, "Is
it nothing to you, all ye who pass by; behold and see if there was ever sorrow like unto my
sorrow?" From a shrapnel hole near the heart of the figure, birds could be seen flying in and
out, getting food for their young. At the foot, there was the grave of a German officer who
had been killed when the Germans occupied Loos.

I often used to go to Bully-Grenay to visit some of the siege batteries. They had comfortable
billets but the Germans soon found out their location and sent over some very big shells. One
large shell had a curious experience. It fell in the road to the south of Bully-Grenay,   
(p. 194) burrowing under the ground without exploding. Then it rose and went through the side
of a brick house, and finally reposed on the floor of an upper room. We all went to see it
lying there, like some gigantic sea monster dead and stranded on the shore. The potential force
of the huge shell was enormous, but it lay there perfectly harmless after its strange pilgrimage.

I was passing one of the siege batteries one day, when I saw a number of men working round
a damaged gun-pit. I went over to it and found that a shell had landed there that morning,
just as they were changing shifts on the guns. It had killed and buried a number of the men,
at the same time setting fire to our ammunition. The bodies of those who were buried were burnt
almost to ashes by the terrific heat, and only charred bits of them were recovered.

South of Loos there was the famous Double Crassier. It was a large slag heap on which once
ran a line of railway. The top, of course, was in sight of the Germans, but down in the hollow
on our side of it we had a great number of battery positions. That little corner where our
guns were concentrated was an easy target for the German artillery, and many were the high
explosives and gas-shells which they dropped. In the town of Maroc itself there was a large
fosse or mine-head. The buildings round it were capacious, and well made. They were of course
now much damaged, but the cellars were extraordinarily commodious and extensive. They were
lined with white tiles, and the largest one was fitted up as a place of rest and amusement
with a canteen where the men could get coffee, cakes and cigarettes. I stationed one of our
chaplains there to look after the work and hold services in one of the cellars which was fitted
up as a chapel. In the large room there were benches, and a stage afforded a good floor for
boxing. I determined to start boxing there as a sport for the artillerymen, who had few opportunities
of enjoying the entertainments which were given behind the line. I had a great friend in one
of the Highland battalions, who had been wounded three times in the war, and was heavy-weight
champion of the 1st Division. I got his O.C. to attach him to me, and I placed him in the cellar
at Maroc where he began to instruct the men in the noble art of self defence. People used to
wonder why I had a prize-fighter attached to me, and I told them that if the Junior Chaplains
were insubordinate, I wanted to be able to call in some one in an emergency to administer discipline.
I always said, with      (p. 195) perfect truth, that since my prize-fighter was attached to
me I had had no trouble with any of the chaplains. It is wonderful what things one can do in
the Army which are not according to the King's Regulations. By right, as Senior Chaplain of
a Division, I was entitled only to one man who was to act in the dual capacity of batman and
groom, but later on I managed to get a man to act as secretary, who was given sergeant's stripes
and looked after the office when I went on my wanderings through the Division. Then I got a
man who knew something about music to be appointed as my organist. He used to travel with me
in the staff car with my portable organ when I went to take church parades on Sunday. He was
afterwards gassed and I lost him, but he did useful work while he was with me in helping the
singing. The prize-fighter made another addition to what I called the Senior Chaplain's battalion.
Then, as time went on, I was able to get a man to take over the duties of a batman, and I finally
obtained a chauffeur to run my side-car. This large army of assistants was a sore puzzle to
our Camp Commandant, who had to arrange for their rations and discipline. I was always being
asked how many men I had on my staff. However, to use a soldier's expression "I got away with it."

The road through Maroc was not a pleasant one to travel. It was liable to be shelled at any
moment. On one side of the street was a large brick wall which had been perforated by a shell
and the place was called "The Hole in the Wall." The Germans knew that we had many batteries
concealed in the ruined town, so they never left it alone for very long. I was going up to
the front one day, when I met in the street an artillery officer coming back. We had not seen
each other for some time, and he gave me such a warm greeting that I at once determined to
reward him by reciting to him one of my poems. I got about half way through when the enemy,
not knowing, of course, what was going on, began to shell the place, and some bits of mud and
brick fell in the road not far off. In spite of the beauty of the poem, my friend began to
get restless, and I was faced with the problem of either hurrying the recitation and thereby
spoiling the effect of the rhythm, or of trusting to his artistic temperament and going on
as if nothing was happening. I did the latter, and went on unmoved by the exploding shells.
I thought the Major would see that the climax of the poem had not yet been reached and was
worth waiting for. I was mistaken. He became more and more restless, till at last he said,
(p. 196) "Excuse me, Canon, but I think I must be hurrying on." He left me standing in the
road with the last part of the poem and its magnificent climax still in my throat. I looked
after him for a moment or two, then turned sorrowfully, lamenting the depravity of human nature,
and pursued my journey. I had not gone far in the street before I came to a large pool of blood,
where a man had just been killed. There was some excuse, therefore, for my friend's conduct,
for he must have passed that pool of blood before he met me, and his nerves were probably not
in their normal condition. He went back to his battery and told his friends there that I had
actually buttonholed him in Maroc and insisted upon his listening to a miserable poem of mine
while shells were falling in the place.

In order to avoid the danger of passing through the town, we generally used a path across the
fields. I was returning from the trenches with some men one night along this path, when we
saw from Maroc flashes of a light which was apparently being used as a signal. At once we were
seized with an attack of spy-fever, and I said to the men, "There is someone signalling to
the Germans." The night was so dark that signalling could have been seen at a considerable
distance. Immediately we started off towards the light, which went out when we approached,
but we discovered an officer in a mackintosh, and I at once asked him who he was. Tired as
our men were, for they were coming out after being several days in the trenches, they followed
me and were so keen on the adventure that one of them had drawn his revolver. The officer became
very rude and he used some blasphemous words towards me in the dark, which naturally provoked
a stern rebuke. I told him I was a Lieut.-Colonel, and that I should report him to his commanding
officer. Then we asked him to give proof of his identity. I could see by his manner that he
was becoming exceedingly uncomfortable, so I insisted upon his leading us to his headquarters.
He did, and we stumbled on over telephone wires and piles of bricks till he brought us into
the yard of a broken down house, in the cellars of which we found the officers of his battery.
The O.C. was very polite and, when I pointed out to him the danger of flashing a light in the
neighbourhood of the track which was used by our infantry battalions at night when going to
or coming from the trenches, he said his unit would be more careful in the future. After a
little conversation we left. A day  (p. 197) or two afterwards I met one of the officers of
the battery, and we had a good laugh over the incident, but he told me that it was even more
amusing than I had thought, for the young officer had a dugout in the field and was making
his way thither with nothing on but his pyjamas and his mackintosh. When we asked him for some
proofs of his identity, he was terrified lest we should search him and find him in this peculiarly
unmilitary costume, which might have made us still more suspicious.

Ever since our moving to Bracquemont, we had been preparing to complete the work of our advance
towards Lens by an attack on Hill 70, the high ground to the north-west of that city. Compared
with the taking of Vimy Ridge, the exploit was of course a minor one, but, for many reasons,
it was felt to be an exceedingly dangerous task and one which would cost us dearly. The Germans
had had time to concentrate their forces in front of us, and they knew the value of the commanding
position which they held. Everyone felt anxious as to the result of the enterprise, and we
had learnt from recent experiences on the Ridge and at Fresnoy how powerful the enemy was.
Although, of course, I did not let the men see it, I was always worried when we had an attack
in view. When I held services for them on parade, or addressed them at their entertainments,
or met them by the roadside, I used to look into their eyes and wonder if those eyes would
soon be viewing the eternal mysteries "in the land that is very far off." I tried to make it
a point never to pass anyone without a handshake or a word of cheer and encouragement. How
their faces used to brighten up at some trifling kindness or some funny story!

I was fond of visiting the men who acted as the road control on the east side of Maroc. One
of their number was of course on guard day and night, so I was always sure of meeting a friend
whenever I passed. I never went down to their cellar without being offered a cup of tea and
other dainties. They used to sleep on shelves, and often invited me to rest my weary limbs
there. I would thank them for their kindness, but thought it prudent, for reasons of personal
cleanliness, not to accept it. It always gave me great pleasure to come upon friends in out
of the way places. I remember meeting an officer late one night near the front at Loos. It
was very dark, and, as soon as he recognized me, he exclaimed, "Here's old Canon Scott, I'll
be d--d!" "My friend," I said solemnly, "I hope you will not allow that sad truth to get abroad.
(p. 198) The Canadian Government is paying me a large salary to try and keep you from that
awful fate, and if they hear that your meeting me has had such a result, I shall lose my job."
He apologized for the expression, and said it was only meant as an exclamation of surprise.

By the beginning of August, everything was ready for the attack, and on the 14th, carrying
my rations with me, I made my way to the 7th Siege Battery; for I had arranged to go to their
observation post and watch the barrage from there. I started off in the evening, with one of
the gunners. We skirted Maroc and reached the O.P., which was called St. Pat's. It was a long
walk over the open and through the trenches before we got into the place. From it we looked
down the slope towards our front line, and beyond this we saw the rise in the ground called
Hill 70, held by the Germans. The barrage was to begin at four twenty-five in the morning;
so the gunner and I went down into a dugout and tried to get a little rest. Before we got to
sleep, however, we became aware of the smell of gas, and, hearing the tramping of feet in the
trench at the top of the stairs, I went up and found the men of the 14th Battalion with their
helmets on going forward in preparation for the advance. They recognized me because I did not
put on my mask, and as they passed they shook hands with me and I wished them "good luck in
the name of the Lord." Such cheery souls they were, going forth in their stifling helmets to
the unknown dangers which awaited them.

I found that sleep was impossible, so I went up to the O.P. and waited for the barrage. It
was a lovely night; the stars were shining beautifully, and the constellation of Orion hung
on the horizon in the eastern sky, with the pale moon above. A great silence, stirred only
by the morning breeze, brooded over the wide expanse of darkness. Then, at four-twenty-five,
the guns burst forth in all their fury, and all along the German line I saw not only exploding
shells, but the bursting oil drums with their pillars of liquid fire, whose smoke rose high
in the air with a peculiar turn at the top which looked like the neck of a huge giraffe. At
once the Germans sent up rockets of various colours, signalling for aid from their guns, and
the artillery duel of the two great armies waxed loud and furious. I stood on the hill with
some of our men, and watched the magnificent scene. Nothing but the thought of what it meant
to human beings took away from our        (p. 199) enjoyment of the mighty spectacle. When
day dawned, we could see, silhouetted against the morning sky, men walking over the hilltop,
and now and then jumping down into the captured trenches. Once again our Division had got its
objective. At various points difficulties had been encountered, and in a place called the "Chalk
Pit", which afterwards became our front line, the Germans had made a determined stand. They
had a wonderful dugout there, like a rabbit-warren, with many passages and entrances, from
which they were bombed out with great difficulty. One of our western battalions suffered heavily
in taking the stronghold.

I went on to Fort Glatz and to some of the other advanced aid-posts. We had many casualties,
but we felt that the worst was not yet over, for we knew that, although we had taken the hill,
the Germans would make a desperate fight to get it back again. All day long our artillery pounded
away and our infantry consolidated the line. Our Pioneer Battalion did splendid work in digging
trenches under heavy fire, in order to connect our advanced positions. When the sun set and
the night once more cast its shade over the earth, there was no cessation in the sound of battle.

The next morning I visited the wounded in the C.C.S., and in the afternoon went by car once
more to the 7th Siege Battery and thence made my way through Maroc to the front, as I had heard
from the General that the artillery were having a hard time. Their guns had been firing incessantly
since the barrage started. I met many men on the journey who gave me accounts of their experiences
during the battle, and, by the time I reached the Y.M.C.A. coffee-stall in a ruined building
on the Maroc-Loos road it was quite late. Here in a cellar I found some men making coffee for
the walking wounded, who were coming back very tired and glad of a shelter and a hot drink.
I went on down the road to the well concealed trenches which led to the 1st and 2nd Artillery
Brigade Headquarters. In the deep dugout, I found the O.C.s of the two brigades and their staffs
hard at work. It was an anxious time, because ammunition was short, and every available man
was employed in carrying it up to the guns. The Senior Colonel asked me if I would go round
to some of the gun pits and talk to the men. They were tired out, he said, with the constant
firing, and there was still no prospect of a rest. I told him that if he would give me a runner
to act as guide, I would visit all the gun-pits of the two Brigades. Accordingly a    (p. 200)
runner was sent for, and he and I started off at midnight. It was very dark, and when we emerged
from the trench and turned to the right on the Lens-Bethune road we met parties of wounded
men coming back, and the batteries in the fields beside us were firing over our heads. We visited
first the cellar of a building by the way, where there was an aid post. Here were many men
being attended to by the doctors. They were all worn out, and did not look forward with much
pleasure to their journey back to Maroc along the dark and dangerous road.

From the dressing station, my guide and I went into a trench and along this to the gun positions.
As we came to each, we visited the officers and men. We got a glad welcome from the faithful,
true-hearted fellows who were working with might and main to save the lives of their comrades
in the front line. Some of the guns were fearfully heated and were hard to handle. Yet the
S.O.S. signals from the front trenches would go up every now and then, telling our gunners
that the Germans were making another counter-attack, and asking for artillery support to save
the situation. We made our way through the trench towards the batteries at the foot of the
Loos Crassier. In doing so, we had to pass under the road. I was going on ahead, and when I
stooped down to pass under the bridge, to my surprise I could dimly descry in the darkness
a row of silent men sitting on each side of the passage facing one another. I said, "Good-night,
boys," but there was no answer. The figures in the darkness remained motionless and still.
I could not quite make out what the matter was, for our men always responded to my greeting.
Suddenly, an enemy flare-light went up in the distance, and I saw, to my horror, that the two
rows of men sitting so silently were Germans. I was wondering if I had run my neck into a noose,
when a voice from the other end of the passage called out, "They are prisoners, Sir. I am taking
them back with me and giving them a few minutes rest." I must say that I was greatly relieved.
I went on to the gun-pits just in front of the crassier, and here the men were working hard.
It was splendid to see their absolute disregard of everything but their duty. I felt myself
to be such a slacker beside them, but I told them how gloriously they were carrying on, and
how their work was appreciated by the infantry. The night began to wear away, and when I reached
the gun-pits that were further back it was broad daylight. In fact, I visited the last one
at six a.m. Some of the batteries had by this time ceased firing, and the (p. 201) men had
fallen asleep in all sorts of curious positions, ready to be roused in an instant. Altogether,
my guide and I visited forty-eight gun-pits that night, and it was about seven o'clock when
we returned to Brigade Headquarters.

The next night the Germans sent over a rain of gas-shells on the batteries, and the men at
the guns found it impossible to see the sights through the eye-pieces of their gas-helmets,
and so chose to face the poison unprotected rather than run the risk of injuring our infantry
by bad firing. There were of course heavy casualties among the gunners as a result of this.
Some died and many were badly gassed, but the line was held.

As I was returning after spending the night at the gun-pits, I felt terribly tired. The morning
sun rose higher and higher, and beat down with summer heat on my steel helmet as I made my
way along the path which skirted the town of Maroc. I sat down by the side of a trench to have
some breakfast, and opened a tin of milk and my tin of bully beef and was just preparing to
have a meal, when I must have fallen asleep instantaneously. How long I slumbered I do not
know, but when I woke up I found, standing in front of me, three amused and puzzled Australian
tunnellers. When I fell asleep, I must have upset my breakfast, which was lying at my feet,
and the tunnellers were evidently enjoying what they considered to be the discovery of a padré
a little the worse for wear. They were somewhat surprised, not to say disappointed, when I
woke up, and they said, "You seem to be very tired, Sir." I told them that I had had very little
sleep for several nights, and had been walking all night long, winding up my story (for the
honour of the cloth) with the statement that I was a teetotaller. Whether they believed it
or not I do not know, but we had a long talk together and they told me of the work they were
doing in digging a tunnel from Loos to the front line.

The next day I went to the advanced dressing station and saw the men that were gassed being
brought in. So strongly were their clothes saturated with the poison that, as they were being
cut off, in order that the bodies of the men might be washed with the liquid used for counteracting
the burning effects of the gas, our eyes and throats smarted from the fumes. There was nothing
more horrible than to see men dying from gas. Nothing could be done to relieve their suffering.
The body, as well as the throat and lungs, was burned and blistered by the poison.

The German counter-attack had now spent itself, and Hill 70 was    (p. 202) ours. One more
splendid deed had been achieved by the Canadian Corps, and we now held in our hands the commanding
position which threatened the town of Lens.

CHAPTER XXI.                                                       (p. 203)

EVERY DAY LIFE.

August to October 1917.

Hill 70 being now in our grip the Division came out of the line on August 21st, and moved back
to our old billets in Bruay.

Every night, as usual, our concert party gave a performance in the theatre. We were very proud
of them. The men's costumes were well made and very tasteful. "Babs," our leading lady, was
most charming and engaging, in spite of the fact that her hands looked decidedly masculine.
The townspeople enjoyed the entertainments as much as we did, and the battalions were given
their own special nights. Occasionally, some of the jokes appeared to me a trifle too broad.
At such times I would pay a visit to the Green-room, as Senior Chaplain, and mildly suggest
their withdrawal. I must say that the men took my interference in good part and kept their
exuberance of spirits well in check. Our Divisional band was up to high-water mark, and their
rendering of the hymns and chants on Sundays made our services in the theatre extraordinarily
hearty.

One afternoon I motored over to Quatre Vents to take a funeral service in the cemetery there.
Instead of returning, I went down to Cambligneul to see the men of the 7th Battalion. They
were enjoying a rest in the quaint old town. In the evening, I went down to the Y.M.C.A. hut
which was in charge of the British. Here I found our men crowded into the building, not knowing
what to do with themselves. The officer in charge of the hut was a quiet man, who was doing
his best in superintending the work at the counter. It struck me, however, that he felt a little
embarrassed by the situation, and did not know how to provide amusement for the wild Canadians.
I asked him if he would object to our having a stag-dance. He said, "Certainly not, you may
do anything you like." At once we got several dozen candles and illuminated the place. Then
we sent out for a pianist and some violinists, and got up a scratch orchestra. We then cleared
away the tables and benches and turned the place into a dance-hall. The orchestra struck up
a lively two-step, and great burly chaps chose their equally burly partners, and      (p. 204)
started off in the dance with such gusto that the place was filled with the sounds of dissipation.
This attracted more men from outside, and finally we had the liveliest scene imaginable. I
actually found myself joining in the mazes of the waltz, and amid roars of laughter the dancing
went on fast and furious. So delighted was the Y.M.C.A. officer, that he mounted the platform
at the end of a dance, and in spite of my protest, called for three cheers for the man who
had suggested the entertainment. At the close of the evening, we had cups of hot coffee and
biscuits, and parted in the best of humours. I was then confronted by a problem that had not
presented itself to me before, and that was, how I was to get back to my home in Bruay, which
was about ten miles off. Once more my favourite text came to my mind, "The Lord will provide."
So I bid good-bye to my friends in the hut and went off, trusting that a car or lorry would
pick me up on the road. This time I found that the Lord did not provide, so I started at about
half-past ten on my homeward journey on foot. As I passed through the sleeping village of Estrée-Cauchie,
I came upon some men of another Division who had been imbibing very freely in an estaminet,
and who were about to wind up a heated argument with a free fight. It was very dark, and it
was hard for me to convince them that I was a chaplain with the rank of Lieut.-Colonel, until
I turned my flashlight upon my white collar. Happily, my efforts as peacemaker were not in
vain. I poured oil on the troubled waters till I saw them subside, and the men went off to
their billets. One young fellow, however, was experiencing that interest in spiritual problems,
which was sometimes aroused in the most unexpected quarters by free libations of spirituous
liquors. He caught hold of my arm and implored me to enlighten him on the theological differences
which separated Anglicans and Presbyterians. I forget which he was himself, but at the time
the problem was a matter of extraordinary interest to him. While I always considered it my
duty to impart enlightenment to darkened souls whenever I could, the recollection that I had
about seven miles to walk to my home that night rather tempered my missionary zeal, and by
a promise to discuss the whole matter on our next meeting I managed to tear myself away and
proceed on my journey.

It was a long tramp down the silent road in the darkness. The houses in the little villages
through which I passed were tightly shut. Not a light could be seen, and Providence supplied
no car or lorry       (p. 205) for my conveyance. On a hill in the distance, I saw the revolving
light which acted as a signal to the aeroplanes. It would shine out for a few seconds and then
die away. The air was fresh and cool, and I had time to meditate on the curious events of the
intense life which I lived. It was still day in Canada, and the sun was shining over our cities,
the great lakes, the prairies, and the jagged peaks in the mountain province on the Pacific
coast. When was this life going to end? Were we really making any progress? Overhead, my beloved
friends the stars, kept up their silent twinkling, which gave them an appearance of life. In
the valley lay the old medieval Château of Ohlain. I thought of the historical figures from
the pages of French history who had walked along that road centuries before, filled with the
anxieties and problems of their own age. Now and then, some bird of the night would break the
silence with its cry or twitter, and still I plodded on. At last, long after midnight, I reached
the outskirts of Bruay, and entering the High Street, made my way to my billet, where Alberta
was waiting to give me a warm welcome.

It was the privilege of the British Army to have as its commanders, good and devout men. One
always felt that, in any appeal, the cause of religion would be upheld. General Horne, who
commanded the First Army, of which we formed a part, was a man of sincere religious life, and
never failed to show his appreciation of the chaplains and their work. One day he invited all
the Chaplains of the First Army to have tea with him at his headquarters in the beautiful Château
of Ranchicourt. It was a lovely afternoon, and we motored over to the meeting in busses. Tables
were set for tea and refreshments on the lawn, and the Count and his charming daughter were
there, giving a touch of home life to the gathering. All the chaplains who could be off duty
were present. After tea, while we sat on the grass, the General gave us a very helpful talk
on religious work among the men from a soldier's point of view. The old Château, with its beautiful
gardens in front of the huge elms gave a fine setting to the scene.

On August 31st I was driven over to a field at the back of Villers-Chatel, where the 2nd Brigade
was to hold a memorial service for those who had been killed at the taking of Hill 70. I had
been asked to give the address. The place chosen was a wide and green field which sloped gradually
towards the line of rich forest trees. On the highest part of the ground facing the woods,
a small platform had been erected  (p. 206) and was decorated with flags. On this the chaplains
stood, the Corps Commander and the Brigadier and staff being at one side. Before us, forming
three sides of a square, were the four battalions of the Brigade. The scene when viewed from
the platform was magnificent. The sky was blue, the sun was shining, and the glorious trees
guarded the green mysteries of the forest behind. The troops were in splendid form, and the
bright red patches on their arms gave a touch of colour which set off the khaki uniforms. Every
one of the men had been through the battle and was a hero. The service went well, and the hymns,
to the accompaniment of the band, were sung heartily. At the close, the Corps Commander and
staff went round to each battalion, and those who had won honours came forward to receive them.
As the officers and men stood in turn before the General, the A.D.C. read out a short account
of what each had done to win the decoration. It was deeply moving to hear the acts of gallantry
that had been performed. Fixed and motionless each man would stand, while we were told how
his courage had saved his company or platoon at some critical moment. I remember particularly
hearing how one sergeant who got the D.C.M., had carried his Lewis gun, after all the other
members of the crew had been wounded or killed, and, placing it at a point of vantage, had,
by his steady fire, covered the advance of a company going forward to attack. Little do people
at home know by what supreme self-sacrifice and dauntless courage those strips of bright-coloured
ribbon on the breasts of soldiers have been won. After the decorations had been presented,
the men fell back to their battalions. The band struck up the strains of "D'ye ken John Peel?",
and the whole Brigade marched past the General, the masses of men moving with machine-like
precision. Even the rain which had begun to fall did not mar the fine effect.

Our stay at Bruay was not to be of long duration. In the early hours of September 5th a bomb
dropped in the garden behind the administration building where our Headquarters were, waking
us from sleep with a sudden start. It did no harm, but on the next day we were informed that
we were all to move back to our old quarters in Barlin. I always said that I regarded a bomb
dropped on Headquarters as a portent sent from heaven, telling us we were going to move. Accordingly
on September 6th we all made our way to Barlin, where I was given a billet in an upper room
in an estaminet. The propriety of housing  (p. 207) a Senior Chaplain in an estaminet might
be questioned, but this particular one was called the estaminet of St. Joseph. An estaminet
with such a title, and carried on under such high patronage, was one in which I could make
myself at home. So on the door was hung my sign, "Canon Scott, Senior Chaplain," which provoked
many smiles and much comment from the men of the battalions as they passed by. I was looking
out of my window in the upper storey one day when the 2nd Battalion was marching past, and,
to the breach of all good discipline, I called out to the men and asked them if they did not
envy me my billet. A roar of laughter went up, and they asked me how I got there and if I could
take them in as well. I told them that it was the reward of virtue, and only those who could
be trusted were allowed to be housed in estaminets.

Near me, at Barlin, the motor machine-gun brigade was encamped. It had been there for some
time, and I was glad to meet old friends and renew acquaintance with the unit that had such
a distinguished career at the front. I had not seen them much since the old days at Poperinghe,
but wherever they went they covered themselves with glory. To spend an evening in the hut used
as the sergeants' mess was a delight. The rollicking good humour that prevailed was most contagious,
and I shall always treasure the memory of it which has now been made sacred through the death
of so many whom I met there. I used to visit the tents, too, and sitting on a box in their
midst have a smoke and talk with the men. Heavy indeed has been the toll of casualties which
that noble brigade has suffered since those happy days.

Word was sent to the Division one day by the British troops holding our trenches on Hill 70,
that some bodies of our men were lying unburied in No Man's Land. One of our battalions was
ordered to provide a burial party and I decided to accompany them. I was to meet the men at
a certain place near Loos on the Lens-Arras road in the evening, and go with them. The burial
officer turned up on time, but the party did not. At last the men arrived and we went through
the well-known trenches till we came to the front line. Here I had to go down and see some
officers of the British battalions, and try to find out where the bodies were. Apparently the
officers could give us little information, so we decided to divide up into small parties and
go into No Man's Land and search for the dead ourselves. As we were in sight of the enemy,
we could not use our electric torches, and     (p. 208) only by the assistance of German flare-lights
were we able to pick our steps over the broken ground. We found a few bodies which had not
been buried, but it was impossible to do more than cover them with earth, for the position
was an exposed one. We did the best we could under the circumstances, and were glad to find
that the number of unburied had been greatly exaggerated. On another occasion I took a burial
party out one night, and found that the officers and men sent were a new draft that had never
been in the line before. They were much interested in the novel and somewhat hazardous nature
of the expedition. On this occasion when we returned to Bully-Grenay, the morning sun was shining
brightly overhead, and it began to get quite warm. The men were very tired with their night's
work, and when we halted they lay down on the pavement by the road and went to sleep. One poor
fellow actually collapsed, and we had to send off to a dressing station for a stretcher on
which he was taken away for medical treatment. A burial party, from the nature of the case,
was not a pleasant expedition, and Canada ought to be grateful for the way in which our Corps
burial officers and the men under them carried out their gruesome and often dangerous duty.
One of our burial officers, a fine young fellow, told me how much he disliked the work. He
said, "There is no glory in it, and people think that we have an easy time, but two of my predecessors
have been killed and I expect to get knocked out myself some day." A year later he was killed
near Cambrai, after he had faithfully done his duty in caring for the bodies of the slain.

Our front trenches were now to the right of Hill 70, in advance of Liéven, and it seemed as
if we were going to be stationed in the neighbourhood for some time, for the rumour was that
the Canadians had to complete their work at Vimy by the capture of Lens. Barlin, therefore,
and the area around it was a great centre of Canadian life and activity. We had our large Canadian
tent-hospitals, our brigade schools, and various Y.M.C.A. places of entertainment, besides
our officers' clubs.

In an open field near my billet were stationed the horse lines of our Divisional Train, and
it used to give me great pleasure to pass the long rows of wagons which by the constant labour
of the men were kept in prime condition. The paint was always fresh, and all the chains were
polished as if they were merely for show. It would be hard    (p. 209) for people at home to
realize that the wagons which had been used for years under such rough conditions always looked
as if they had just come out of the shop, but that was the case. The constant attention to
detail in the army, the smartness of the men, and the good turn-out of the horses and limbers,
have a great moral effect upon every department of the service. The men were always grumbling
about polishing buttons and chains, but I told them that the impression of efficiency it gave
one made it quite worth while. A Division that could turn out such a fine looking Train as
we had could always be depended upon to do its duty.

CHAPTER XXII.                                                      (p. 210)

A TRAGEDY OF WAR.

There is nothing which brings home to the heart with such force the iron discipline of war
as the execution of men who desert from the front line. It was my painful duty on one occasion
to have to witness the carrying out of the death sentence. One evening I was informed by the
A.P.M. that a man in one of our brigades was to be shot the next morning, and I was asked to
go and see him and prepare him for death. The sentence had already been read to him at six
o'clock, and the brigade chaplain was present, but the A.P.M., wished me to take the case in
hand. We motored over to the village where the prisoner was and stopped at a brick building
which was entered through a courtyard. There were men on guard in the outer room and also in
a second room from which a door led into a large brick chamber used as the condemned cell.
Here I found the man who was to pay the penalty of his cowardice. He had a table before him
and on it a glass of brandy and water and writing materials. He was sitting back in his chair
and his face wore a dazed expression. The guards kindly left us alone. He rose and shook hands
with me, and we began to talk about his sentence. He was evidently steeling himself and trying
to fortify his mind by the sense of great injustice done to him. I allowed him to talk freely
and say just what he pleased. Gradually, I succeeded in getting at the heart of the true man
which I knew was hidden under the hard exterior, and the poor fellow began to tell me about
his life. From the age of eleven, when he became an orphan, he had to get his own living and
make his way in a world that is often cold and cruel to those who have no friends. Then by
degrees he began to talk about religion and his whole manner changed. All the time I kept feeling
that every moment the dreaded event was coming nearer and nearer and that no time was to be
lost. He had never been baptised, but wished now to try and make up for the past and begin
to prepare in a real way to meet his God.

I had brought my bag with the communion vessels in it, and so he and I arranged the table together,
taking away the glass of brandy and water and the books and papers, and putting in their place
the white     (p. 211) linen altar cloth. When everything was prepared, he knelt down and I
baptised him and gave him his first communion. The man's mind was completely changed. The hard,
steely indifference and the sense of wrong and injustice had passed away, and he was perfectly
natural. I was so much impressed by it that while I was talking to him, I kept wondering if
I could not even then, at that late hour, do something to avert the carrying out of the sentence.
Making some excuse and saying I would be back in a little while, I left him, and the guard
went into the room accompanied by one of the officers of the man's company. When I got outside,
I told the brigade chaplain that I was going to walk over to Army Headquarters and ask the
Army Commander to have the death sentence commuted to imprisonment.

It was then about one a.m. and I started off in the rain down the dark road. The Château in
which the General lived was two miles off, and when I came to it, I found it wrapped in darkness.
I went to the sentry on guard, and told him that I wished to see the General on important business.
Turning my flashlight upon my face, I showed who I was. He told me that the General's room
was in the second storey at the head of a flight of stairs in a tower at the end of the building.
I went over there, and finding the door unlocked, I mounted the wooden steps, my flashlight
lighting up the place. I knocked at a door on the right and a voice asked me who I was. When
I told my name, I was invited to enter, and an electric light was turned on and I found I was
in the room of the A.D.C., who was sitting up in bed. Luckily, I had met him before and he
was most sympathetic. I apologized for disturbing him but told him my mission and asked if
I might see the General. He got up and went into the General's room. In a few moments he returned,
and told me that the General would see me. Instead of being angry at my extraordinary intrusion,
he discussed the matter with me. Before a death sentence could be passed on any man, his case
had to come up first in his Battalion orderly room, and, if he was found guilty there, it would
be sent to the Brigade. From the Brigade it was sent to the Division, from the Division to
Corps, from Corps to Army, and from Army to General Headquarters. If each of these courts confirmed
the sentence, and the British Commander-in-Chief signed the warrant, there was no appeal, unless
some new facts came to light. Of all the men found guilty of desertion from the front trenches,
only a small percentage were executed. It was considered absolutely       (p. 212) necessary
for the safety of the Army that the death sentence should not be entirely abolished. The failure
of one man to do his duty might spoil the morale of his platoon, and spread the contagion of
fear from the platoon to the company and from the company to the battalion, endangering the
fate of the whole line. The General told me, however, that if any new facts came to light,
suggesting mental weakness or insanity in the prisoner, it might be possible for the execution
to be stayed, and a new trial instituted. This seemed to give hope that something might yet
be done, so I thanked the General for his kindness and left.

When I got back to the prison, I made my way to the cell, not of course, letting the condemned
man know anything that had happened. By degrees, in our conversation, I found that on both
sides of his family there were cases of mental weakness. When I had all the information that
was possible, I went out and accompanied by the brigade chaplain, made my way once again to
Army Headquarters. The chances of averting the doom seemed to be faint, but still a human life
was at stake, and we could not rest till every effort had been made. I went to the room of
the A.D.C., and was again admitted to the presence of the Army Commander. He told me now that
the only person who could stop the execution was the Divisional Commander, if he thought it
right to do so. At the same time, he held out very little hope that anything could be done
to commute the sentence. Once more I thanked him and went off. The brigade chaplain was waiting
for me outside and we talked the matter over, and decided that, although the case seemed very
hopeless and it was now half-past three, one last effort should be made. We walked back through
the rain to the village, and there awoke the A.P.M. and the Colonel of the battalion. Each
of them was most sympathetic and most anxious, if possible, that the man's life should be spared.
The A.P.M. warned me that if we had to go to Divisional Headquarters, some seven miles away,
and return, we had no time to lose, because the hour fixed for the execution was in the early dawn.

The question now was to find a car. The only person in the place who had one was the Town Major.
So the Colonel and I started off to find him, which we did with a great deal of difficulty,
as no one knew where he lived. He too, was most anxious to help us. Then we had to find the
chauffeur. We managed to get him roused up, and told him  (p. 213) that he had to go to Divisional
Headquarters on a matter of life and death. It was not long before we were in the car and speeding
down the dark, muddy roads at a tremendous rate, whirling round corners in a way that seemed
likely to end in disaster. We got to the Divisional Commander's Headquarters and then made
our way to his room and laid the matter before him. He talked over the question very kindly,
but told us that the courts had gone into the case so carefully that he considered it quite
impossible to alter the final decision. If the action of the prisoner had given any indication
of his desertion being the result of insanity, something might be done, but there was nothing
to suggest such was the case. To delay the execution for twenty-four hours and then to have
to carry it out would mean subjecting a human being to unspeakable torture. He felt he could
not take it upon himself to run the chance of inflicting such misery upon the man. The Colonel
and I saw at once that the case was utterly hopeless and that we could do no more. The question
then was to get back in time for the carrying out of the sentence. Once more the car dashed
along the roads. The night was passing away, and through the drizzling rain the gray dawn was
struggling.

By the time we arrived at the prison, we could see objects quite distinctly. I went in to the
prisoner, who was walking up and down in his cell. He stopped and turned to me and said, "I
know what you have been trying to do for me, Sir, is there any hope?" I said, "No, I am afraid
there is not. Everyone is longing just as much as I am to save you, but the matter has been
gone into so carefully and has gone so far, and so much depends upon every man doing his duty
to the uttermost, that the sentence must be carried out." He took the matter very quietly,
and I told him to try to look beyond the present to the great hope which lay before us in another
life. I pointed out that he had just one chance left to prove his courage and set himself right
before the world. I urged him to go out and meet death bravely with senses unclouded, and advised
him not to take any brandy. He shook hands with me and said, "I will do it." Then he called
the guard and asked him to bring me a cup of tea. While I was drinking it, he looked at his
watch, which was lying on the table and asked me if I knew what time "IT" was to take place.
I told him I did not. He said, "I think my watch is a little bit fast." The big hand was pointing
to ten minutes to six. A few moments later the guards entered and put a   (p. 214) gas helmet
over his head with the two eye-pieces behind so that he was completely blindfolded. Then they
handcuffed him behind his back, and we started off in an ambulance to a crossroad which went
up the side of a hill. There we got out, and the prisoner was led over to a box behind which
a post had been driven into the ground. Beyond this a piece of canvas was stretched as a screen.
The firing party stood at a little distance in front with their backs towards us. It was just
daylight. A drizzling rain was falling and the country looked chilly and drear. The prisoner
was seated on the box and his hands were handcuffed behind the post. He asked the A.P.M. if
the helmet could be taken off, but this was mercifully refused him. A round piece of white
paper was pinned over his heart by the doctor as a guide for the men's aim. I went over and
pronounced the Benediction. He added, "And may God have mercy upon my soul." The doctor and
I then went into the road on the other side of the hedge and blocked up our ears, but of course
we heard the shots fired. It was sickening. We went back to the prisoner who was leaning forward
and the doctor felt his pulse and pronounced him dead. The spirit had left the dreary hillside
and, I trust, had entered the ranks of his heroic comrades in Paradise.

The effect of the scene was something quite unutterable. The firing party marched off and drew
up in the courtyard of the prison. I told them how deeply all ranks felt the occasion, and
that nothing but the dire necessity of guarding the lives of the men in the front line from
the panic and rout that might result, through the failure of one individual, compelled the
taking of such measures of punishment. A young lad in the firing party utterly broke down,
but, as one rifle on such occasions is always loaded with a blank cartridge, no man can be
absolutely sure that he has had a part in the shooting. The body was then placed in a coffin
and taken in the ambulance to the military cemetery, where I held the service. The usual cross
was erected with no mention upon it of the manner of the death. That was now forgotten. The
man had mastered himself and had died bravely.

I have seen many ghastly sights in the war, and hideous forms of death. I have heard heart-rending
tales of what men have suffered, but nothing ever brought home to me so deeply, and with such
cutting force, the hideous nature of war and the iron hand of discipline, as did that lonely
death on the misty hillside in the early morning.  (p. 215) Even now, as I write this brief
account of it, a dark nightmare seems to rise out of the past and almost makes me shrink from
facing once again memories that were so painful. It is well, however, that people should know
what our men had to endure. Before them were the German shells, the machine-guns and the floods
of gas. Behind them, if their courage failed, was the court-martial, always administered with
great compassion and strict justice, but still bound by inexorable laws of war to put into
execution, when duty compelled, a grim and hideous sentence of death.

If this book should fall into the hands of any man who, from cowardice, shirked his duty in
the war, and stayed at home, let him reflect that, but for the frustration of justice, he ought
to have been sitting that morning, blindfolded and handcuffed, beside the prisoner on the box.
HE was one of the originals and a volunteer.

CHAPTER XXIII.                                                     (p. 216)

VISITS TO ROME AND PASCHENDAELE.

October and November, 1917.

It was a good thing, after the bitter experience which I had just passed through, that permission
was granted me at this time to take some men on a leave trip to Rome. My visit to Paris had
convinced me that it was no proper place for men to spend their leave in, so when my next leave
was nearly due I wrote to Division and asked permission to take a party to Italy in order that
some of our men might have the benefit of seeing the great monuments of European history and
art. Weeks passed away and I heard nothing about the matter, until at last a telegram came
through granting my request. I had only asked permission to take twelve men with me whose names
had to be sent in beforehand. But the telegram which granted permission was couched in such
vague terms, merely referring to a certain file-number, that I, knowing that nobody would take
the trouble to turn up the original document, said nothing about it, and by a stroke of good
luck succeeded in taking with me forty-six men, including two chaplains, two young officers
and one of the staff of the Y.M.C.A. Two of the men, alas, became casualties in the Paris barrage
on the first night, and were reported "missing, believed dead," but were found two days afterwards
by the police and sent back. The rest of us had a glorious time and travelled to Rome via Marseilles,
Nice--which included a visit to Monte Carlo--Genoa and Pisa. I shall never forget the delightful
trip across France by daylight, and the moonlight night at Marseilles, where we put up at the
Hotel Regina. The men were in fine form and presented a splendid soldierlike appearance. Their
new uniforms were set off by the bright red patch upon their sleeves, and their buttons were
kept well polished. I told them, before we started, that I did not wish to be either a detective
or a nursery-maid, but I asked them to play the game and they did. We were going into the country
of an ally and I knew that such a large party would be under very critical observation wherever
we went. I had really no authority over the men beyond that which they were willing that I
should exercise. The individuals of the party were not specially selected, but I felt perfect
confidence that we should have no trouble, although I was naturally very much teased by members
of "C" mess   (p. 217) who prophesied that I should lose some men in Paris, some in Marseilles
and some in Rome, and my friends even went so far as to declare that they doubted whether I
should ever come back myself. We were favoured with glorious weather, and travelled by daylight
the whole length of the Riviera. The utmost good humour prevailed, and the glorious view of
the blue Mediterranean on one side, with that of the romantic mountains on the other, drove
from our minds all uncomfortable memories of the war. In fact we seemed to get into another world.

The train arrived at Pisa at about nine o'clock p.m. and was to wait there for three hours,
so we all got out and had some supper and started off to see the famous leaning tower by moonlight.
The sudden appearance of British troops in the quaint old town caused quite a sensation, and
the people came out of the cafes to see us and a mob followed us wherever we went. We were
of course pounced upon by the vendors of souvenirs, and a number of the men came back to the
station carrying alabaster leaning towers under their arms. I warned the party about the danger
of loading themselves with such heavy and brittle mementos, for we had still a long journey
before us. The wisdom of my warning was apparent later on, for on leaving Rome the alabaster
towers had begun to lean so much that they could no longer stand up. A shelf full of leaning
towers propped up one against another, looking as if they had just partaken of an issue of
rum, was left in the hotel. We journeyed all night, some of the men sleeping on the seats,
some on the floor, and some in the hatracks overhead, and in the morning amid intense excitement
we arrived at the station in Rome. I had been able to get a shave and clean up in the train,
so on arrival was ready to go and hunt for a hotel. I told the men, however, to find their
way to the Leave Club and make themselves presentable and that I would return for them as soon
as possible. After securing billets in the Hotel Bristol, I went back for the party. Although
I knew the men would want to go about the city by themselves, I felt it would be a good thing
for our esprit-de-corps, that we should march to the hotel in a body. So, not knowing how to
give military orders myself, and remembering what real colonels always did in similar predicaments,
I turned to the senior sergeant and said, "Sergeant, make the men fall in, and when they are
ready I will take over the parade." When the sergeant came up to me and saluting said the parade
was ready,     (p. 218) I found to my dismay that the men were facing the wrong way and if
I said "Quick march", they would walk into the brick wall opposite. I went up close to the
sergeant and whispered to him, "Turn the men round." This he did, and placing myself at their
head I shouted, "Quick March." I think that moment, as I started off to march through Rome
at the head of that fine body of men who followed two abreast, was the proudest of my life.
I had always been interested in history, and have read Gibbon from cover to cover, so the thought
suddenly flashed upon me, "Julius Caesar once led his forces through Rome. Later on, Augustus
Caesar led his forces through Rome. In the middle ages, Rienzi led his forces through Rome,
and now, (here my head began to swell till it grew too big for my cap) Canon Scott is leading
his forces through Rome." We marched through the streets at "attention" and looked not to the
right nor to the left, in spite of the fact that we passed many groups of admiring onlookers.
When we arrived at the hotel, I called out, "Halt", in proper military tones and the men halted,
but I did not know the usual formula for telling them to disperse, and I did not want such
a proper beginning to have a miserable end. I thought of saying, "Now I will dismiss the congregation,"
but that sounded too religious. I knew that if I said, "Now we will take up the collection,"
my army would fly off quickly enough. However, while I was debating with myself, the men took
the law into their own hands and, breaking off, went into the hotel.

We happened to arrive in Rome just at the time of the great Italian disaster in the North,
and we found the populace plunged into great anxiety. English and French newspapers were banned
by the censor, so it was difficult to find out what was happening, but I was told privately
that matters were very critical, and there might be a revolution in Rome at any moment. I was
also advised to see that our men behaved with great circumspection, for German agents were
secretly trying to make trouble between the British and Italians. I told our men to remember
we had to help on the cause of the Allies and to be very careful about details, such as saluting
every Italian officer. I think they saluted every Italian private as well. I also told them,
in case they were questioned on the subject, to say they were quite pleased with the war, in
fact that they rather enjoyed it and were not a bit afraid of the Germans, and were determined
to fight until a decisive victory gave us a chance of lasting peace.

Wherever we went on the journey, we stayed at the best hotels, for (p. 219) I had told each
man to bring with him a thousand francs. It was a great puzzle to the Italians that Canadian
soldiers were able to stay at the most select hotel in Rome, and also that the officers and
men were able to mix together in real comradeship. The Highlanders in our party of course attracted
the greatest attention, and were frequently followed by an admiring crowd as they passed through
the streets. Colonel Lamb, the military attaché at the Embassy, was very kind to us and secured
us many privileges, not the least acceptable of which was free transportation. We split up
into small parties, and visited the sights of the Eternal City as we pleased. On the first
night after dinner, we paid a visit to the Coliseum by moonlight, which is something to remember.
Wherever we went we met with the kindest treatment. The ladies of the Leave Club gave us an
entertainment one evening, which was attended by the military and naval attachés at the British
and American Embassies, and by some of the English residents. I was proud of the appearance
of the men. Before we left the hotel at Nice, an English lady, the wife of a British General
at the front, came up and congratulated me upon the men, and said they were the most gentlemanly
young fellows she had ever seen. I think it was a help to them to feel that their appearance
in Rome at that critical time was something which gave our party a kind of political significance,
and the phrase, "to help on the cause of the Allies," became a watchword among us.

One night an Italian Colonel asked some of our men to dine with him at his hotel and took them
to the theatre afterwards. On another occasion, five of our men were sitting in the front row
of one of the theatres when an actor gave an impersonation of the different sovereigns of Europe.
When he appeared as King George, the orchestra struck up our National Anthem, and at once our
men rose up and stood to attention. One of them told me afterwards that he felt cold shivers
going down his back as he did so, because he was in full view of everybody. For a moment there
was a pause, then the audience, understanding what the action meant, rose en masse and stood
till the music was over and then clapped their hands and shouted "Viva l'Inghilterra!"

Many of our men were very anxious to see the Pope, and so it was arranged that we should have
an audience. Colonel Lamb informed the 1st Italian Division that we would march in a body through
(p. 220) their district. We started off in the morning, our young Highland officer being in
command. As we passed through the streets, the people greeted us very cordially. Many of them
raised their hats. The traffic, too, would stop to let us pass. We went over the bridge of
Hadrian and arrived at the entrance of the Vatican beside St. Peter's in good time. There we
were met by an Irish priest, who remembered me from my previous visit. I asked him if the men
should break ranks but he told me to let them come in formation. So, two by two, we mounted
the glorious Royal Staircase, the splendid surroundings being a good setting for the fine looking
soldiers. At the various landings, the Swiss Guards in their picturesque uniforms presented
arms, and we found ourselves at last in a wonderful hall with richly frescoed walls and ceiling.
Here the men were halted and passed in single file into the audience chamber. We had to wait
for quite a long time, and at last the Pope entered, clothed in white and looking much older
and more worn than when I had seen him only a year and a half before. He was very guarded in
what he said to us, because we were the first soldiers whom he had received in a body, and
any expression he might make with reference to the war would be liable to various interpretations.
He spoke to some of our men in French and then wished us health and protection and a safe return
to Canada. Then, giving his blessing he left us, and we made our way to the outer room where
we reformed and marched off as we had come.

That afternoon we were photographed in the Coliseum, and I visited the interesting old church
of St. Clement afterwards. Every evening, after a day spent in rambling among antiquities,
we used to attend the opera in the Grand Opera House. It acted as a sort of relaxation after
the serious business of sight-seeing. Rumours now reached us of the attack that our Division
was making up in the Salient, and one night when I was having tea in the Grand Hotel I went
over and asked a young British staff officer whom I saw there, if he had any news. He said
to me that the Canadian Corps were making an attack at Passchendaele under the most appalling
conditions of mud and rain and had covered themselves with glory. I asked him if it were true
that Sir William Robertson had come to Rome. "Yes," he said, "I am his son. He has brought
me with him and we are all very proud of the Canadians." At another table I saw M. Venezelos.
It was understood now that       (p. 221) Britain and France were to come to the assistance
of Italy, but still Venice was in imminent peril, and the Italians were heart-broken at the
way the 3rd Italian Army had behaved. Refugees from the North began to pour into Rome and affairs
were very serious. I told our men of the gravity of the situation and the increased importance
of helping on the cause of the Allies in every possible way.

It is the custom at Rome on All Soul's day, November 2nd, to place flowers and wreaths on the
marble steps in front of the equestrian statue of Victor Emmanuel. This year, I was told, the
people were going to make a special demonstration. It occurred to me that it might not be a
bad idea if we, too, placed a wreath to the memory of our comrades. I put the matter before
Colonel Lamb and he said it was a very good idea indeed, but asked us to put on the card which
would be attached to our wreath, the words, "To the brave Italian dead, from their comrades
in the British Empire," rather than, "To the brave Italian dead from their Canadian comrades."
He said he was anxious to emphasize the connection between the British and the Italians. An
Italian major made the arrangements with me for carrying out the project. Poor man, he was
so moved at the thought of the disgraceful surrender of the 3rd Italian Army that his eyes
filled with tears as he talked about it, and he said, "What will our Allies think of Italy
when her men behave like that?" I told him it was only a small part of their army that had
failed and that the rest had behaved very gallantly. That afternoon, preceded by two of our
sergeants carrying a large wreath of laurel tied with purple ribbon, to which we attached two
cards with the inscription, one in English and one in Italian, we marched through the crowds
of onlookers, who took off their hats as we passed, until we reached the great marble steps
which lead up to the gilded statue of the late King. Here there was a magnificent display of
flowers made up in all sorts of designs. The crowd gave away before us, and one of the officials,
who had been directed by the Italian major, took the wreath from us and gave it a place of
honour in front of the statue. We stood in a long line on the marble steps and saluted and
then turned and left. The people clapped their hands and shouted, "Viva l'Inghilterra!" We
were pleased at the impression the simple act of courtesy made, and felt that it was helping
on the cause of the Allies.

Our men were always very much amused by the moving picture shows,  (p. 222) the characters
of these entertainments being so different from that of similar exhibitions at the front. They
were so tragic and so sentimental that they did not appeal strongly to the wholesome minds
of Canadian soldiers. It was always very interesting to hear their criticisms of the customs
and outlook of the people with whom we were sojourning. There is no doubt that the army mind
is the sanest and most wholesome in the whole community. It may not express itself in the most
artistic terms or the most religious language, but its judgments are absolutely sound and worthy
of the most careful consideration. I am sure that Canadian political life, unless other influences
nullify it, will be immeasurably bettered by the soldiers' vote.

I had the great privilege of a visit to Cardinal Gasquet in the home of the Dominicans not
far from St. Peter's. The interview had been arranged for me by an English priest whom I met
at the hospital of the Blue Nuns, where I had taken two of our men who were ill with pneumonia.
The Cardinal is engaged in the stupendous task of revising the text of the Latin Vulgate. He
showed me photographs of the ancient manuscripts with the various readings noted. It will be
years before the great task is completed, but when it is, it will remain untouched for centuries
to come. He told me that news had just been received of the consecration of the first Roman
Catholic Bishop in Russia. This had been made possible by the overthrow of the reigning dynasty.
He was most kind, and told me many interesting things about life in Rome during the war, and
before I left asked me to write my name in his visitor's book, pointing out to me on the upper
part of the page the recent signature of the Cardinal Archbishop of Cologne.

Altogether we had been absent by this time for nearly two weeks, and had still a long return
journey ahead of us. I thought, however, that the valuable service our men were rendering the
great cause justified our over-staying our leave. In fact, when I went to say good-bye to Colonel
Lamb, he and his staff told me that the presence of our men in the City at that time had been
worth any amount of printed propaganda. I hinted that some statement of that kind to General
Currie might be a good thing. To my great delight, soon after we had returned, General Currie
received the following letter, which has an official stamp which I never expected:--

                              BRITISH EMBASSY,                     (p. 223)
                                   ROME.
                                          9th November, 1917.
    "Dear General,

    "With reference to the recent visit to Rome of a party of Canadian
    officers and soldiers, I am requested by H. E. Sir Rennel Rodd to
    inform you of the excellent impression produced among the
    inhabitants of this city, by the soldierlike turnout, and
    excellent and courteous behaviour of all ranks belonging to the
    party.

    "Their visit has helped to inspire Italians with a feeling of
    confidence in their allies at a time of great anxiety and trial.
                                   "Believe me,
                                        Yours very truly,
                                        (Sgd.) CHARLES A. LAMB,
                                               Colonel,
                                         Military Attaché.
                                                     Rome."

We left for Florence on Saturday November 3rd. The ladies of the Leave Club came to see us
off, and after a delightful trip in brilliant sunshine, we arrived at our destination at seven
in the evening. On our journey we passed many trains filled with refugees, who were crowded
together in third-class carriages. As the Austrian and German armies advanced in the North
the people in the villages were given a quarter of an hour in which to decide whether they
would stay or go. They were warned, however, that if they stayed and the Italians ever tried
to retake the towns they would all be put to death. I was told by some officers of a British
hospital in Turin, who had had to leave the Italian front in a hurry, that it was a sad sight
to see the inhabitants of the towns fleeing down the roads from the advancing enemy. Old and
infirm people dragged themselves along. Parents lost their children and children lost their
parents in the crowd, and the people took with them only the things which they could carry
on their persons. Florence was crowded with these unfortunates, who were lying out at night
in the squares and being tended by the citizens. There was a great crowd at the station when
we arrived, and a number of Italian soldiers who spoke English gathered round our party and
told us that the war was over and that the soldiers would not fight any more. Our men, however,
were equal to the occasion, and told them  (p. 224) that we were going to keep on fighting
no matter what the Italians did, and that there could be no peace until we had a decisive victory.
The whole city was astir, and many Italian regiments were quartered there. I told the men before
we sought for accommodation in the crowded town, how important it was that we should show a
determined face at this time.

On the following afternoon, which was Sunday, I had a curious experience. The Y.M.C.A. officer
and I were going off to see the great church of Santa Croce, which is the Italian Westminster
Abbey, many great Italians having been buried there. As we passed down the street my friend
went into a shop to buy some chocolates. While I was waiting, I heard the stirring notes of
the Marseillaise, and looking round saw a band coming up the street followed by three Italian
flags, a number of soldiers, and a rabble of men, women and children. I called to my companion
to come out quickly and salute the Italian colours. As they passed, we stood on the curb and
saluted with strict military precision. In fact we saluted so well that the delighted members
of the procession grabbed us by the hand and finally dragged us into their midst, others clapping
their hands and shouting "Viva l'Inghilterra!" I was separated from my companion in the rabble
and called over to him and asked him what it was. He said, "I think it is a Socialist demonstration."
This rather dismayed me, but I turned to one of the people by my side and asked him in French
what the crowd was. He told me it was the society for finishing the war, so I called out to
my friend, "It's all right Captain, it is the society for finishing the war. I have wanted
to join that society for some time." I saw at once that the procession was an attempt to pull
the Italians together and rouse them to a supreme effort to resist the enemy and save Italy.
The crowd was so enthusiastic about the presence of representatives of the British Army, that
they finally caught us by our legs and carried us on their shoulders through the streets. It
was a most amusing incident. I could not help thinking that the crowd were the descendants
of the men who had burnt Savonarola at the stake. My friend, whose sense of humour had failed
him, shouted over to me, "I hate being made a fool of like this." I told him not to be rude
as we were helping on the cause of the Allies. Finally, overcome by our struggles, the men
let us down, and we were pushed along in the crowd to the square in front of the Hotel Minerva.
Here the leaders of the procession invited us into the hotel and we were taken upstairs to
(p. 225) the front room, out of which opened a balcony overlooking the square. A young Italian
officer, who had been a lawyer before the war and had lost both his eyes, went on to the balcony
and made a most impassioned appeal to his countrymen. The crowd in the square was now very
dense, and received his speech with great enthusiasm. When it was over, one of the officers
of "The society for finishing the war," came and urged me to address the crowd. I was so pleased
to find that my French was better understood in Italy than in any place except England, that
I asked my friend if I should speak to them in French. He looked at me very sourly, for he
had not quite got back his equanimity, and said curtly, "You had better not." Then I said,
"I will talk to them in Italian." I shall never forget the look of dismay which passed over
his countenance, but I told him it was helping on the cause of the Allies. I went out on the
balcony, and the people seeing the British uniform and probably mistaking me for a general,
at once began to cheer. I took off my cap, waved it in the air and shouted at the top of my
voice "Viva l'Italia." It was the only speech they wanted. It was neither too long nor too
short. The crowd repeated the words, and then shouted, "Viva l'Inghilterra!" and the band actually
struck up "God save the King" and followed it by "Rule Britannia, Britannia rules the waves"
(I wished at the time she had ruled under the waves as well.) I went back to the room and the
Italians were so delighted with my short and pithy speech, that they invited me to dine with
them that night and bring two officers with me. When we got down to the square, the mob crowded
round us and shook hands with us, and I was afraid that some of the ladies were going to embrace
us. I think people thought we were part of the advance guard that had been sent from France
to the assistance of Italy.

That night three of us attended the dinner given by the officers of "The society for finishing
the war," in a very fine restaurant. The Deputy for Florence, who had been one of the members
of the government which had declared war on Austria, was present and I sat by the side of an
alderman of the city. Opposite to me was an English lady who acted as an interpreter. At the
close of the dinner the Deputy rose and made a very eloquent speech, welcoming us to Italy
and saying how much Italians appreciated the fact that England was one of her Allies. I replied
in English, which was translated by our fair interpreter, and told them how glad we were to
be with them and that we had come, some of our men seven thousand miles, as a voluntary army
to fight (p. 226) not only for the British Empire, but for something even bigger than that,
for our common civilization, and that the war had made the Allies one family. I said that our
men were determined to fight to the bitter end, for we could have no true peace until we had
a decisive victory. Then I added that, if our Division were sent to Italy, we should all come
with great pleasure, knowing that the Italians were our comrades and warm friends. I thought
too, during my speech, that a dugout in Florence would be worth two in Bully-Grenay. The party
seemed very pleased with my remarks and we all exchanged visiting cards and separated good
friends. The whole affair was very amusing, and when the Italians pushed back the enemy in
1918, I used to tell the men, amid roars of laughter, that nothing but my modesty prevented
my saying who it was that had saved Italy, that no one would ever hear from my lips the name
of the man who, when Italy was lying prostrate at the feet of the advancing foe, shouted into
her dying ear the startling words "Viva l'Italia" and set her on her feet.

Two days afterwards, accompanied to the station by an admiring crowd and three ladies carrying
Italian flags, we bade farewell to Florence and started on our return journey. We spent the
afternoon in Pisa, and, after a night's journey, arrived at Turin in the morning. Our men got
out of the train and were making their way to the station when they were met by the British
R.T.O. a very large officer who wore an eyeglass. He brought them quickly to attention by calling
out, "Who are you?" They told him they were Canadians on leave, and I, fearing bloodshed, went
up to the officer and explained who they were and why they had come. He told me that there
had been a mutiny in Turin that summer and relations between the British and Italians were
very much strained, owing to the action of German agents. He said he had been living on the
top of a volcano for the past three months, and was afraid to allow any large body of troops
to go about the town lest there might be trouble. I assured him that our men would behave with
great circumspection. He then told me that they would have to be back in rest-billets, near
the station, not later than ten o'clock. I asked if he could not make it eleven, because I
knew that the men wanted to go to the theatre. He agreed to this and asked me to tell them
that roll would be called in the rest-billets at eleven o'clock. I halted the men and said,
"Boys, roll will be called in the rest-billets tonight at eleven o'clock sharp." Whether it
was or not we never   (p. 227) knew, for none of us was there to hear. The men went to the
theatres and to the various hotels afterwards. No trouble ensued, and when we left on the following
afternoon the R.T.O. was most friendly and gave us a hearty send-off, no doubt feeling too
relieved at our departure to make any inquiries.

Although we had had a most delightful trip I was really thankful we were at last setting our
faces towards the North. We arrived in Paris the next morning, and before we left the station
I told the men that every one of them had to be at the train that evening. I had taken it upon
myself to extend their leave, as I thought their presence in Italy was beneficial to the cause,
but I asked them to show their gratitude by not failing to return all together. That night,
to my intense satisfaction, they all turned up at the station at seven o'clock, and we started
for Calais. We arrived there the next morning, and in the afternoon left for the front.

We arrived at Poperinghe that night at six o'clock. It was dark, a drizzling rain was falling,
and the mud was thick. We could hear the big guns firing, and the men were coming and going
in all directions. We took a hasty farewell of one another and then parted. No one we met cared
whether we had come from Italy or were going to Jericho. The men did not know where their headquarters
were, and I was particularly anxious not to find mine. I went over to the Officer's Club and
secured a shake-down in the garret, but, as I heard that our Division had made an attack that
day, I determined to go up to the line. I started off after dinner in an ambulance to the old
mill at Vlamertinghe, where there was a repetition of the sights and sounds which I had experienced
there on two previous occasions. Later on, I went forward in another ambulance through Ypres
to an advanced dressing station. Then I started to walk up the terrible, muddy roads till I
came to the different German pill-boxes which had been converted into headquarters for the
battalions. Finally, after wading through water and mud nearly up to my knees, I found myself
the next afternoon wandering through the mud and by the shell holes and miserable trenches
near Goudberg Copse, with a clear view of the ruins of Paschendaele, which was held by another
division on our right. The whole region was unspeakably horrible. Rain was falling, the dreary
waste of shell-ploughed mud, yellow and clinging, stretched off into the distance as far as
the eye could see. Bearer parties, tired    (p. 228) and pale, were carrying out the wounded
on stretchers, making a journey of several miles in doing so. The bodies of dead men lay here
and there where they had fallen in the advance. I came across one poor boy who had been killed
that morning. His body was covered with a shiny coating of yellow mud, and looked like a statue
made of bronze. He had a beautiful face, with finely shaped head covered with close curling
hair, and looked more like some work of art than a human being. The huge shell holes were half
full of water often reddened with human blood and many of the wounded had rolled down into
the pools and been drowned. As I went on, some one I met told me that there was a wounded man
in the trenches ahead of me. I made my way in the direction indicated and shouted out asking
if anybody was there. Suddenly I heard a faint voice replying, and I hurried to the place from
which the sound came. There I found sitting up in the mud of the trench, his legs almost covered
with water, a lad who told me that he had been there for many hours. I never saw anything like
the wonderful expression on his face. He was smiling most cheerfully, and made no complaint
about what he had suffered. I told him I would get a stretcher, so I went to some trenches
not far away and got a bearer party and a stretcher and went over to rescue him. The men jumped
down into the trench and moved him very gently, but his legs were so numb that although they
were hit he felt no pain. One of the men asked him if he was only hit in the legs. He said,
"Yes," but the man looked up at me and pulling up the boy's tunic showed me a hideous wound
in his back. They carried him off happy and cheerful. Whether he ever recovered or not I do
not know. If he did and ever sees this book, I wish he would write and tell me how he is.

That was our last attack at Paschendaele. Our Division had taken its final objective. The next
morning, the infantry were to come out of the line, so in the late afternoon I returned with
some stretcher bearers. Several times shells came near enough to splatter us with mud, and
here and there I turned aside to bury those for whom graves had just been prepared.

At the front that day, a runner and I had joined in a brief burial service over the body of
a gallant young officer lying where he fell on the side of a large shell-hole. As I uttered
the words--"I am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord," it seemed to me that the lonely
wind bore them over that region of gloom and death as       (p. 229) if it longed to carry
the message of hope far away to the many sad hearts in Canada whose loved ones will lie, until
the end, in unknown graves at Paschendaele.

CHAPTER XXIV.                                                      (p. 230)

OUR LAST WAR CHRISTMAS.

Our Division moved back to Barlin and I was once more established in my old billet. As our
artillery were still at Ypres, I determined to go back on the following day to the Salient.
I started in a car the next morning at six, and arrived at Talbot House, Poperinghe, in time
to have breakfast with Padré Clayton, who was in charge of that splendid institution. Then
I made my way to Ypres and found my son at his battery headquarters under the Cloth Hall Tower.
It was a most romantic billet, for the debris of the ruins made a splendid protection from
shells, and the stone-vaulted chambers were airy and commodious, much better than the underground
cellars in which most of the men were quartered. The guns of the battery were forward in a
very "unhealthy" neighbourhood. The officers and men used to take turns in going on duty there
for twenty-four hours at a time. They found that quite long enough, as the forward area was
continually exposed to shells and aeroplane attacks. I went on to visit our own field batteries,
and found them distributed in a most desolate region. The mud was so deep that to step off
the bath-mats meant sinking almost to the knees. In order to move the guns, planks had to be
laid in front of them for a track, and the guns were roped and dragged along by the men. It
was hard physical labour but they bore it, as they did other difficulties and dangers, with
the utmost good humour. It was tiring enough merely to walk out to see them, without having
anything else to do. What those men went through at that time no one can imagine. Just to watch
them laying the planks and hauling on the ropes which drew the heavy mud-covered guns made
me weary. When I meet some of my gunner friends in Montreal and Toronto looking so clean and
happy, I think of what they did behind Passchendaele Ridge, and I take off my hat to them.

I spent three days at Ypres, and then, by jumping lorries, made my way back to St. Venant and
Robecq, where I spent the night. The next morning I left for Bethune, and thence by the assistance
of lorries and a car continued my journey to our new Divisional Headquarters, which had found
a home at Château de la Haie. Here I had a billet  (p. 231) in an upstairs room over what had
been part of a stable. The room was neither beautiful nor clean, but served as an abode for
me and Alberta and her newly-arrived family. The Château was a large house of no distinction,
but it stood in delightful grounds, and at the back of it was a pond whose clear waters reflected
the tall, leafless trees which bordered it. One fact made the Château popular and that was,
that, up to that time, no shell or bomb had fallen in the neighbourhood. It was said that the
location of the Château was not to be found on the enemy's maps. Round about were huts with
accommodation sufficient to house a whole brigade. The charm of the place was completed by
our 4th Division having erected there a large and most artistic theatre, which would seat on
benches nearly one thousand men. It had a good stage and a pit for the orchestra in front.
This theatre, when our concert party was in full swing, was a source of infinite delight to
us all. It was built on the slope of a hill, the stage being at the lower end and a good view
of the play therefore, could be had from all parts. The scenery was beautifully painted and
the electric lights and foot-lights well arranged.

Near us was the village of Gouy-Servins, where many men were billeted, and in huts at Souchez
and other places along the valley the various units found their homes. The year's campaign
was now over and we could look forward to a quiet time during the winter. "C" mess had a very
comfortable hut, with an open fireplace. We were supposed to have the liveliest entertainments
of any mess at Headquarters, and had therefore many visitors. I shall never forget the jolly
face of our president, the D.A.D.M.S., nor the irrepressible spirit of our A.P.M., son of a
distinguished father who commanded an Army, nor the dry common-sense humour of our Field Cashier.
What delight they took in ragging the Senior Chaplain, whose automatic ears, as he averred,
prevented his hearing the things he should not. Nor must we forget the Camp Commandant, often
perplexed like Martha with much serving. It was a goodly company and one much addicted to bridge
and other diversions. I shall not forget the continual appeals of a gallant staff officer with
two or three ribbons, who asked me penitently every morning for a moral uplift, which I noticed
completely evaporated before evening. There was a freedom about our gatherings that was quite
unique and has left pleasant memories in the mind, in spite of the fact that I told my fellow
members they were the most godless crowd in Christendom. One day when we were at Ecoivres,
a shell fell by the house, while (p. 232) we were having dinner. Someone asked me afterwards
if it had "put my wind up?" "Not a bit", I replied, "I knew that the Devil was not going to
destroy one of his favourite machine-gun emplacements."

There was much excitement at this time over the question of conscription. The soldiers were
to have votes and much depended upon their being given in the right way. It was a critical
time, as our man-power was being exhausted. Recruiting under the voluntary system had become
inadequate to meet our needs. Beyond this, however, one felt that the moral effect of Canada's
refusing conscription would be very harmful. The Germans would at once see in it an indication
that Canada was growing weary of fighting and they would consequently take heart. It was most
essential then that our men should cast a solid vote for the coalition government. I felt it
my duty therefore to do as much electioneering work as I could. At night I used to address
the men in the theatre between the acts of the play, and tell them that if we threw out the
conscription bill, it would go a long way to undo the good of all they had done and destroy
the value of the sacrifice our dead comrades had made. Once I was invited to speak to a battalion
of the 4th Division during an entertainment which they were holding. When I closed my address
I told them that the last thing I wanted to do was to influence their vote. All I asked of
them when they went to the polls was to make a cross in front of Borden's name. From the laughter
and cheers with which this statement was received, I think they probably did. A few of the
men told me that the thing which made them hesitate about voting for conscription was that
they could not bring themselves to do anything which would force others to come and endure
the hellish life at the front. The great unionist victory at the polls in Canada, which we
heard of on December 18th, showed us that the heart of the young country was sound, and this
no doubt was noted by the Germans.

One more, (and this was the last,) St. George's church was built for me near the Château. Thus
I was enabled to have a daily celebration of the Holy Communion.

The arrival of one of the battalions of the 4th Division gave us the first indication that
we were to move. On December 20th we left once more for Bruay. Here I found that my old billet
was no longer available, but I managed to find a home in a clean little cottage  (p. 233) in
the same street, where I had a room downstairs for an office, cheered by an open fire, and
a large bare room upstairs in which I put my bed. On the garden-gate I hung out my sign "St.
George's Rectory." Once again I found myself in the familiar neighbourhood with all the beloved
battalions round us as before. The theatre was filled night after night, and there were the
old gatherings of officers in the hotel. We regarded it as a great stroke of luck that once
more we were going to spend Christmas out of the line.

On Christmas Eve, when I was preparing to go up to the midnight Communion Service in the theatre,
a new C. of E. Chaplain arrived and came with me to assist. On the stage the altar was set
as before, and the dear old flag which now for three long years had been devoted to the sacred
purpose shone out as the frontal. The band played the Christmas hymns and a large number of
men attended. Some of them, but not many, had been there the year before. It was very beautiful
and solemn. At midnight on New Year's Eve we repeated the service. Again there was a large
congregation, and to me as I looked back to the gathering held in that place just one year
ago it was quite overpowering. How many of those who had been with us at the dawn of 1917 had
passed away? The seats where they had sat were filled with other men. The hymns they had joined
in were sung by other lips. In my heart went up the cry, "How long, O Lord, how long?" Once
more the hands of the weary world clock had passed over the weeks and months of another year,
and still the end was not in sight. As we stood in silence, while the buglers sounded the Last
Post for the dying year, a wild and strange vision swept before me: I saw again the weary waste
of mud and the shell ploughed ridge at Vimy; the fierce attacks at Arleux and Fresnoy; the
grim assault on Hill 70 and the hellish agony of Paschendaele. Surely the ceaseless chiselling
of pain and death had graven deeply into the inmost heart of Canada, the figures 1917.

CHAPTER XXV.                                                       (p. 234)

VICTORY YEAR OPENS.

January and February, 1918.

Victory Year, though we did not know it by that name then, opened with fine bracing weather,
and there was the usual round of dinners and entertainments with which we always greeted the
birth of a new twelve-month. We had several Canadian-like snow storms. In the midst of one,
I met a forlorn despatch rider coming up the main street on his wheel with the blinding snow
in his face. I stopped him and asked him if he wouldn't like to have some dinner, and I took
him into the hotel. He had been to Bethune to buy some V.C. ribbon for one of the men of his
battalion who was going to be presented with it on the following day, and was so proud of his
mission that he made no complaint about the long and tiring journey through the snowstorm.
The country behind Bruay is broken up into pleasant valleys, and there are plenty of trees
on the hills, so the winter aspect of the district made us feel quite at home. I used to give
many talks to the men on what I called "The war outlook", I thought it helped to encourage
them, and I was perfectly sincere in my belief, which grew stronger as time went on, in spite
of notable set-backs, that we should have victory before the end of the year.

We had a visit at this time from Bishop du Pencier, who came to hold a confirmation for us
at Divion. There were forty candidates, nearly all of them being presented by chaplains of
the 1st Brigade. It was a solemn service and made a deep impression upon the men. The hymns
were sung very heartily, and the Bishop gave a most helpful address. I remember specially one
young fellow called Vaughan Groves, who came to me for the preparation. He was a small, rather
delicate young lad about nineteen years of age, and was a runner for the 2nd Brigade. He had
a fine open face and had the distinction of having won the M.M. and bar. To have won these
honours as a Brigade runner was a mark of rare courage. I felt the deepest admiration for the
boy, who was the only son of a widowed mother in Canada. He never touched liquor and had lived
a perfectly straight life, and his was just the type of character which found scope for great
deeds in the war. After the  (p. 235) confirmation I lost sight of him, until some months afterwards
when, as I was going through Arras one night, I looked into a cellar near the 2nd Brigade Headquarters,
and seeing a number of men in there, went down to have a talk. I found they were the Brigade
runners, and so I at once asked for my young friend. They told me that he had been wounded
in the arm and when he came to the dressing station, finding there a man who was dying from
loss of blood, had at once offered his own blood for transfusion into the veins of the sufferer.
So much had to be taken from him that the boy got very weak and had to be sent back to England
to recuperate. The men added that it was just the thing that little Vaughan would do. He was
the finest, cleanest little chap, they said, that they had ever met. It was always delightful
to hear such testimony from men to the innate power of human goodness. I have never seen or
heard of Vaughan Groves since, but I hope that some one may read this book who will be able
to tell me how and where he is.

I was not sorry when our rest was over. There was more time to get home-sick when we were out
of the line. If we had to be in the war at all, the happiest place was at the front. So when
on January 23rd I left Bruay for Bracquemont, I did so with little regret. My billet at Bracquemont
was the same which I had occupied in the previous September, and it seemed quite like home.
Once more our men held the trenches on Hill 70 and the battalions in the back area were billeted
in Mazingarbe, Le Brebris, and Sains-en-Gohelle.

The day after I arrived, I determined to do some parish visiting in the slums--as I called
the front line. I started off in my old trench uniform and long habitant boots, carrying with
me a supply of bully-beef, tinned milk and hardtack. I went through Bully-Grenay and then out
through Maroc to Loos. Here once again the dressing station at Fort Glatz was occupied by a
doctor and staff from one of our ambulances. I spent a little while there and then continued
my journey up the road past Crucifix Corner to the trenches. The 7th and 8th Battalions were
in the line. The day was fine and the warm sunshine was hardening the mud, so things did not
look too unpleasant. I went to the 7th Battalion first and found the gallant men carrying on
in the usual way. Hugo Trench was very quiet, and from it one could obtain a good view of the
German lines and of Lens beyond. It was great fun to go into the saps and surprise the two
or three men who were on guard in them. The   (p. 236) dugouts were curious places. The entrance
steps were steep, and protected by blankets to keep out gas. At the bottom would be a long
timber-lined passage, dark and smelly, out of which two or three little rooms would open. The
men off duty would be lying about on the floor sound asleep, and it was often hard to make
one's way among the prostrate bodies. The officers' mess would have a table in it and boxes
for seats. On a shelf were generally some old newspapers or magazines and a pack of cards.
In the passage, making it narrower than ever, were a few shelves used as bunks. At the end
of the passage would be the kitchen, supplied with a rude stove which sent its smoke up a narrow
pipe through a small opening. In the trenches the cooks were always busy, and how they served
up the meals they did was a mystery to me. Water was brought in tins from a tap in one of the
trenches to the rear, and therefore was not very abundant. I have occasionally, and against
my will, seen the process of dish-washing in the trenches. I could never make out from the
appearance of the water whether the cook and his assistant were washing the plates or making
the soup, the liquid in the tin dish was so thick with grease. However, it was part of the
war, and the men were doing their best under most unpropitious circumstances.

I had come prepared to spend a night in the trenches, and had decided to do so in the large
German-made dugout in the chalk-pit which was held by "D" Company of the 8th Battalion. The
officer on duty with the 7th Battalion kindly acted as my guide. The day had worn away, and
the bright moon was lighting up the maze of yellow trenches. We passed along, exchanging many
greetings at different places, until we came to the outpost of the 8th Battalion at the top
of the path which leads down to the chalk-pit. Here four men were sitting keeping guard. They
gave me a warm greeting, and I told them that if I were not in a hurry to let my guide go back
to his lines, I would stop and recite some of my poems in the moonlight. It struck me that
they seemed more amused than disappointed. So wishing them good-luck, we started onward down
the slippery path which led into the pit, where many shells had torn up the ground and where
were remains not only of uniforms and mess-tins and rifles but also of German bodies. We had
hardly reached the entrance to the dugout when two or three of those shells which the men called
"pineapples" arrived in quick succession. They sounded so   (p. 237) close that we dived into
the place of refuge. We found the O.C. of the company inside, and he kindly arranged to give
me a large bed all to myself in one of the chambers of the dugout. Suddenly a runner appeared
and told us that the pineapples had hit the outpost, killing not only some of the men to whom
I had just been talking but also the Adjutant of the battalion. I at once got up and went back
to the place. The line was quiet now, and the whole scene was brightly lighted by the moon
and looked so peaceful that one could hardly imagine that we were in the midst of war, but,
lying in the deep shadow at the bottom of the trench, with its face downwards, was the body
of the Adjutant. He had been killed instantly. In the outpost beside the trench, were the bodies
of the men who had been on duty when I passed a few minutes before.

I stayed with the sentry guarding the bodies until a stretcher party arrived and carried them
away. Then I went back to the dugout and visited the men who were crowded into its most extraordinary
labyrinth of passages and recesses. In the very centre of the place, which must have been deep
underground, there was a kitchen, and the cooks were preparing a hot meal for the men to eat
before "stand to" at dawn. The men of course were excessively crowded and many were heating
their own food in mess-tins over smoking wicks steeped in melted candle grease. All were bright
and cheerful as ever, in spite of the stifling atmosphere, which must have been breathed by
human lungs over and over again. It was quite late when I stretched myself on my wire mattress
with my steel helmet for a pillow. Only a piece of canvas separated me from the room where
a lot of men were supposed to be sleeping. They were not only not asleep but kept me awake
by the roars of laughter which greeted the stories they were telling. However, I managed to
doze off in time, and was rudely wakened early in the morning by the metallic thud of pineapples
on the ground overhead. I was wondering what it meant when a man came down to the O.C.'s room,
next to mine, and aroused him with the somewhat exciting news, "Major, the Germans are making
an attack." It was not long before the Major was hurrying up the steps to the passage above,
and it was not long before I followed, because I always had a horror of being bombed in a dugout.
In the passage upstairs all the men were "standing to" with fixed bayonets, and plenty of Mills
bombs in their pockets. They were a most cheerful crowd, and really I think that we all felt
quite pleased at the excitement. A man came up to me and asked me what weapon I     (p. 238)
had. I told him I had a fixed bayonet on the end of my walking stick. This did not seem to
satisfy him, so he went over to a cupboard and brought me two bombs. I told him to take them
away because they might be prematures. He laughed at this and said, "How will you protect yourself,
Sir, if the enemy should get into the trench?" I told him I would recite one of my poems. They
always put my friends to flight and would probably have the same effect upon my foes.

By this time the rain of pineapples overhead was very heavy, and I went to the door of the
dugout where the Major was looking out. It was a curious scene. Day had just dawned, and we
could see the heaps of broken rubbish and ripped up ground in front of us, while directly opposite
at the top of the chalk-pit was our front line. Pacing up and down this was a corporal, his
form silhouetted against the gray morning sky. He had his rifle with fixed bayonet on his shoulder,
and as he walked to and fro he sang at the top of his voice the old song, "Oh my, I don't want
to die, I want to go home." The accompaniment to the song was the "swish" of the shells overhead
and the bursting of them in the trenches behind. I told the Major that if we could only get
a moving picture of the corporal and a gramophone record of his song with its accompaniment
we could make thousands of dollars by an exhibition of it in Canada.

The next night I stayed at Cité St. Pierre. Who will ever forget the road up to it, and the
corner near the ruined fosse, which was always liable to be shelled unexpectedly? In cellars
beneath the unwholesome and dilapidated town our men found billets. They were really quite
comfortable, but at night when the place was as black as pitch, and one had to grope one's
way in the darkness along debris-covered streets, shaken every now and then by the German missiles
from the sky, one longed for Canada and the well-lighted pavements of Montreal and Toronto.

On February 14th, at the officers' club at Corps Headquarters in Camblain l'Abbé, we had a
great gathering of all the officers who had landed in France three years before. The one hundred
and fifty who sat down to dinner were only a small part of the original number, and, before
the anniversary came round again, many of those present were called to join the unseen host
to whose memory that night we drank in silence. It was strange to look back over three years
and think that the war, which in February 1915 we thought was going to be a       (p. 239)
matter of months, had now been protracted for three years and was still going on. What experiences
each of those present had had! What a strange unnatural life we had been called upon to live,
and how extraordinarily efficient in the great war game had each become! It was a most interesting
gathering of strong and resolute men filled with sublime ideals of duty and patriotism, who
nevertheless were absolutely free from all posing and self-consciousness. They had learnt how
to play the game; they had learnt both how to command and how to obey; they had learnt how
to sink selfish interests and aims, and to work only and unitedly for the great cause.

On February 19th I held the dedication service at the unveiling of the artillery monument at
Les Tilleuls. Owing to its exposed position no concourse of men was allowed, but there was
a large gathering of the Staff, including the Army Commander, and of course a number of officers
from the artillery. The lines of the monument are very severe. A plain white cross surmounts
a large mass of solid masonry on which is the tablet, which General Currie unveiled. It stands
in a commanding position on Vimy Ridge, and can be seen for miles around. Many generations
of Canadians in future ages will visit that lonely tribute to the heroism of those, who, leaving
home and loved ones, voluntarily came and laid down their lives in order that our country might
be free.

CHAPTER XXVI.                                                      (p. 240)

THE GERMAN OFFENSIVE.

March, 1918.

Over four months had passed away since my return from Rome, so leave was again due. Immediately
after the unveiling of the Artillery monument I started off in a car for Boulogne, and the
next afternoon arrived in London. Conditions there were worse than they had been the year before.
The streets were darker and food was scarcer. I went as far north as Edinburgh, but when I
arrived at that city I found it cold and wintry and wrapped in mists. There were many naval
men there, and I paid an interesting visit to a damaged submarine which was being repaired
in the dry-dock. It was of course nice to meet friends again, but, beyond that, my last leave
was not a pleasant one. It was a time of great anxiety. The Americans had come into the war,
but they were not yet ready. Another campaign was before us, and the issue of it none could
foresee. I was haunted perpetually by the dread of meeting with some accident, and so being
sent back from the front. Several times I had a vivid dream, that I had got back to Canada
and found that the war was still going on and I could not return to it. I shall never forget
the joy of waking on such occasions and looking with dawning consciousness upon my surroundings
and feeling that I was still at the front. It was a happy day for me, therefore, when on March
8th I arrived once more at Bracquemont, in the midst of my beloved war-family, and able to
re-visit Liévin, Loos, and Hill 70.

My favorite home in the trenches was the dugout in the chalk-pit, which I have just described,
and I often wish I could be suddenly transported there and revive old memories. We were planning
at this time to make a big gas-attack along the Canadian Corps front. Three thousand gas-cylinders
were to be fired by electricity upon the enemy. As I wanted to see this, I made my way to the
chalk-pit. The time fixed for the event was five minutes to eleven at night. If the attack
was to come off, the word "Japan" was to come through on the wires; if, owing to the wind being
in the wrong direction, the attack had to be postponed, the word "Russia" would be sent. At
10.45 I climbed up the steps to the observation post at the back of the chalk-pit     (p. 241)
and waited. From this point I had a good view of the line towards Lens. I watched the luminous
hands of my watch, and they passed the hour of eleven without anything occurring, as the breeze
came from the East. I knew the word "Russia," the name of the country that failed us, must
have been sent over the wires. It was a queer sensation to sit up there in the dark with no
sound but the soft murmur of the night wind in our ears, and the crash of an occasional shell.
In those long dark stretches of waste land around me, thousands of human beings on both sides
of the line were awake and active, either burrowing like ants in the ground or bringing up
rations and war material along the communication trenches.

I spent four nights that week in the chalk-pit waiting for the attack, and on March 21st, the
night of the day on which the Germans launched their fierce attack against our Fifth Army,
my patience was rewarded and the wind was propitious. I mounted the observation post and once
more peered over the black stretches of country under the starlit sky. Suddenly, at five minutes
to eleven, there was a burst of artillery fire, and over our heads with the usual swishing
sound the gas-cylinders sped forth. The German lines were lit with bursting shells. Up went
their rockets calling to their artillery for retaliation. I could hear their gas bells ringing
to warn their men of the poison that was being poured upon them. It must have been a drenching
rain of death. I heard gruesome tales afterwards of desolate enemy trenches and batteries denuded
of men. The display of fireworks was magnificent, and the German artillery in the rear were
not slow in replying. A great artillery duel like that in the darkness of the night over a
waste of ground on which no human habitation could be seen had a very weird effect, and was
wonderful to behold. I climbed down into the dugout and made my way through it to the chalk-pit,
and then up to an outpost beyond. Here were four men, and I found that three of them had just
come up from the base and that this was their first night in the line. They did not seem to
be enjoying it as much as I thought they should, so I remarked that it was a beautiful night
and pointed out to them the extraordinary romance of being actually out in the front line during
such a bombardment. They seemed to get more enthusiastic later on, but the next morning I was
wakened in my room by the laughter of men on the other side of the canvas wall, and I heard
one old soldier telling, to the amusement of his fellows,  (p. 242) of my visit on the previous
evening. He said "We were out there with the shells falling round us, and who should come up
but the Canon, and the first thing the old beggar said was, 'Boys, what a lovely night it is.'"
The men roared at the idea. It was always illuminating to get a chance of seeing yourself as
others saw you.

That day, before I had gone to the chalk-pit, I heard from a staff officer at Corps of the
German attack in the South, and I gathered from his manner that things were not going well.
On March 29th we suddenly shifted our headquarters to Château de la Haie. Here we were told
that we had to be ready to move again at a moment's notice. Very bad news had come from the
South, for the Germans were advancing, and our Fifth Army had been pushed back. The enemy had
now got the initiative into his hands, and things were exceedingly serious. The Americans would
not be ready for some time, and the question was how to stay the onrush of the fresh divisions
which the Germans were hurling against us. An order from General Currie, couched in beautiful
language, told us that there was to be no retreat for Canadians, and that, if need be, we should
fall where we stood. There was no panic, only firmer resolve and greater activity in every
department. Though I made it a point of never questioning our staff about war secrets, I soon
became aware that our Division was to be sent South to try and stem the oncoming tide.

Every night the 4th Divisional concert party gave an entertainment in the theatre, which was
crowded with men. A stranger could not have told from the roars of laughter that shook the
audience from time to time that we were about to face the fiercest ordeal of the war. The 2nd
Brigade was quartered round us first, and one night in the theatre an officer appeared in front
of the stage between the acts and ordered all the officers and men of the 5th Battalion, who
were present, to report at once to their headquarters. Instantly the men got up and left, the
rows of vacant seats looking quite tragic. The play went on. Again, another battalion, and
another, was called off. The audience dwindled. It reminded one of the description in the "Tale
of Two Cities" of the condemned men in prison waiting for the call of the executioner. Before
the close of the performance the theatre was almost empty. The 2nd Brigade moved away that
night and the 3rd took their places the next day. I knew that they, too, would have to move
suddenly, so I arranged that at night we should have a service     (p. 243) followed by a Celebration
of the Holy Communion in the theatre after the play was over. Once again the building was crowded
with an enthusiastic audience, and, after the play was ended, I announced the service. To my
astonishment, most of the men stayed and others crowded in, so we must have had nearly a thousand
men present. The concert party had received orders to pack up their scenery immediately and
move off. While I was on the stage getting the altar ready the scene shifters were hard at
work behind me. In spite of this disturbance, we had a wonderful service. I gave them a short
address, and spoke about the high call which had come to Canadians to do big things, and how
the eyes of the world were upon us. We were the champions of right, and I asked them to go
forth in the power of God and do their duty. Then I began the Communion Service. The colours
of the flag which hung over the altar glowed like an inspiration. The two altar lights shone
like stars above it. At the back of the stage (but we heeded them not) were the busy men packing
up the scenery. We sang the hymn "O God our help in ages past," and at the time of communion
about two hundred officers and men mounted the stage in turn and knelt in rows to receive the
Bread of Life. It was a thrilling moment, and it showed how, underlying the superficial thoughtlessness
of the soldier's life, there was the deep and abiding sense of the reality and need of God.
The service ended about eleven p.m.

After shaking hands with some of the men I went back to my billet and there found that we had
to start that night for parts unknown. All our surplus baggage had been sent off and only what
was absolutely necessary was retained. The members of "C" mess were sitting round the table
having a little liquid refreshment and waiting for the bus which was to take them off. Our
A.D.M.S., who was starting at once, kindly offered to take me with him in an ambulance. Alberta
and I, with two or three men, got into the vehicle, and I bid farewell for the last time to
Château de la Haie. It was a bright moonlight night and the air was cold, but the roads were
dry and dusty. The A.D.M.S., who was the only person who knew our destination, sat in front
with the driver and told him the various turns to take. Clouds of dust blew back into the ambulance
as we sped onward. It was a curious expedition. The war seemed to be more real than ever. One
felt that a new page in its history was being turned. I wondered what was in store for us and
what our experiences were going to be. I was also surprised that   (p. 244) one was able to
go forth without any emotion upon an adventure of such magnitude. On and on we rattled down
the moonlit roads, past sleeping villages, and round sharp curves which jolted us in the car,
until at last, at half-past two, we pulled up suddenly in front of some large iron gates which
gave entrance to the grounds of a chateau standing back some distance from the road. The A.D.M.S.
and his staff got out and hunted for a cottage which they could use as an office.

I thought I had better go off and find a place where I could spend the rest of the night. With
my haversack over my shoulder and followed by Alberta, I entered the gate, and made my way
up the avenue till I came to the Château. It was a large and picturesque building, and stood
out nobly against the outline of the trees in the park. The moon lit up the gray stone front,
which was made all the richer by the variegated light and shade. The mansion, however, showed
no inclination to be hospitable. All the windows were tightly closed with shutters, and there
was no appearance of life anywhere. I knew we were not far from the advancing Germans, and
I supposed that the inhabitants had all fled. I was so cold and tired that I determined to
force an entrance and spend the night inside. I walked round to the back, where I saw a great
park richly wooded. A large door in the centre of the building, reached by a broad flight of
stone steps, seemed to offer me a chance of getting inside. I went up and tried the handle,
when, to my surprise, the door opened and I found myself in a beautiful hall richly furnished
and lighted by a lamp. Antlers hung on the wall, and the place had the appearance of an English
country-house. After my long ride, and at that hour of the night, I felt as if I were in a
dream. I saw a door to the right, and opening it was admitted to a modern drawing-room luxuriously
furnished. A grate fire was burning on the hearth, and on a centre-table stood silver candelabra
with lighted candles. There were also plates of bread and butter, some very nice cups and saucers,
and a silver coffee-pot. At once I said to myself, "I am evidently expected." It was like a
story from the Arabian Nights. I looked about the place and not a soul appeared, Alberta tucked
herself up on a rug and was soon fast asleep. I was just preparing to partake of the refreshments
which, it seemed, some fairy godmother had provided, when in came one of our A.D.Cs. He was
as much surprised to see me as I was to see him. He told me that our       (p. 245) Divisional
Commander had arrived there about an hour or two before and had gone to bed, and that we were
in the home of a certain count whose servants had all fled. He also told me that there was
a bedroom that I could have upstairs, and which would not be occupied by our staff until the
next evening. I had a cup of coffee, and then, calling Alberta and taking a candle, I climbed
a very rambling staircase till I reached the top storey, where I found an empty room with a
very dirty bed in it. However, I was glad to get a place in which to rest, and so, with my
rain-coat for a covering, I went to sleep. The next morning, having foraged for some water
in which I had a good wash, I went off to the village to get some food. I met many of our units
coming up in busses. Some were halted by the wayside, and nobody knew what we were going to
do or why we were there. The Imperial transport officer in charge had either acted under wrong
orders or else the drivers did not know the roads. Some of our battalions had lost their way,
one even entered a village at the other end of which were the Germans, and two of our Engineer
Companies disappeared completely for two days.

The country people were hurrying off in carts, taking their household goods with them. I found
a primitive farmhouse where I was able to buy some eggs and bread, and I invited a number of
stragglers in to have something to eat. By noon, however, we got orders from the Army to move
back to a place called Fosseaux. There we occupied an empty chateau which before the war must
have been a very fine place. A wide grassy road nearly a mile in length, bordered on each side
by fine old trees, stretched off into the distance in front of the central door. The entrance
to the road was guarded by an exquisitely wrought iron gate, flanked on each side by stone
pillars surmounted by carved heraldic figures. It was now cold and rainy, and our two Artillery
Brigades were halted in a field opposite and were awaiting orders. Before nightfall they had
left, and the forward section of our Division made their headquarters in a hut at Warlus; the
members of "C" mess remaining at Fosseaux.

March the 29th was Good Friday, and a strange one it was. There was much stir and commotion
everywhere, and we were so unsettled, that all I could do was to have a service in the cinema
in the evening, and on Easter Day two Celebrations of Holy Communion at which I had only twenty-eight
communicants. Our men had gone in to the line to the  (p. 246) southeast of Arras, round Telegraph
Hill, where an attack by the Germans was expected, as their advance to the south had been checked.
I made my way to Arras, and spent the night in one of the mysterious caves which lie under
that city. It was called St. Sauveur Cave, and was entered from a street behind the station.
The 1st Brigade was quartered there. In the morning I walked down the long dark passage till
I came to an opening which led me to some high ground where there had evidently been a good
deal of fighting. From there I made my way over to the front line, where the 1st Battalion
was entrenched. I passed numbers of wooden huts broken by shells. Many men must have been quartered
there at one time. It was sad to go into them and see the waste and desolation, and the lost
war material scattered in all directions. On my way I came to a deep trench which some Imperial
machine-gunners were holding. They had had an anxious time, and were glad to have a visitor.
Several of them regretted that they had not been able to attend any Easter service. I told
them we would have one there and then, as I was carrying the Blessed Sacrament with me. So
we cleaned a corner of the trench, and there I had a short service and gave the men communion.

Our trenches were not satisfactory, as we did not know accurately where those of the Germans
were. That night, instead of going back to the 1st Brigade I made my way to the huge Rouville
Caves under Arras, where the whole of the 3rd Brigade were quartered. It was a most curious
abode. No one knows when the caves were dug. They were probably extended from time to time
as the chalk was quarried for the purpose of building the town. Long passages stretched in
different directions, and from them opened out huge vaulted chambers where the battalions were
billeted. I spent the night with the 14th Battalion, and the next day held services in turn
for each of the four units of the Brigade. The 16th Battalion occupied a huge cavern with others
branching off from it. I could hardly imagine more picturesque surroundings for a military
service. The candle flames twinkled like stars in all directions in the murky atmosphere, and
the singing of the men resounded through the cave. Overhead was the town which the enemy was
shelling. In one of the caves we found the foundation of what had been an old prison, with
a date upon it of the 18th century. It was very pleasant wandering down the passages, with
a candle    (p. 247) stuck on the top of my steel helmet, and meeting everywhere old friends
who were glad of the temporary rest. Life there, however, was very strange. One could not tell
whether outside it was day or night. I made my way back that afternoon by a passage which led
out to one of the Arras sewers, by the side of which there was a stone pavement enabling one
with a good flashlight to walk safely. The exit from the sewer, which now consisted of a shallow
stream of perfectly clear water, led me up to a house in one of the streets, and thence by
a car I made my way to Warlus, and home to Fosseaux.

A few days afterwards our headquarters were moved up to Etrun, and there we found ourselves
crowded into the quaint little town. The Château was our headquarters, and a tar-paper house
which the Engineers built for me under a spreading hawthorn tree became my home. Etrun was
a most interesting place historically. It had been the site of a Roman camp where Valentinian
had his headquarters in the 4th century. The large mound, or vallum, which the Romans had thrown
up to protect themselves from the attacks of the German tribes, is now a thickly wooded hill,
pierced by the road which connects the village with the Arras highway. The grounds of the Château
were most delightful, and before the French Revolution the house had been a convent. In the
garden was the recumbent stone effigy, overgrown with moss, of one of the sisters. The most
beautiful thing about the place is the clear stream, wide and deep, which comes from underground
and flows over sparkling white pebbles through the green meadows to the river Scarpe. This
stream was evidently the source of attraction to the Romans, who always made their camps where
there was a plentiful supply of running water. The garden on one side was built up in stone
terraces along which were gravel walks, where, no doubt, the nuns of old enjoyed their holy
meditations. In the stream, as it wandered through the meadows, there was a plentiful supply
of water-cress, which looked exquisitely green against the pebbles at the bottom. How one did
long for the war to end, so that we might be able to lie down in the grass, free from anxiety,
and enjoy the drenching sunlight and the spring song of the birds.

CHAPTER XXVII.                                                     (p. 248)

IN FRONT OF ARRAS.

April, 1918.

Etrun was a convenient place for a headquarters. My hut was comfortable, and the tree that
grew beside it stretched its thickly-leaved boughs over it, as though wishing to protect it
from the sight of enemy planes. Visitors were always welcome. In the garden were many other
huts, and a path led to the churchyard in which stood the old church. It was strongly built,
but very crudely furnished, and spoke of many generations of humble worshippers to whom it
was the gate of heaven. On one side of the garden was a stream, which turned a quaint mill-wheel,
and an island in the stream, connected with the banks by a bridge, made a pleasant resort.
A little nest of beauty, such as Etrun was, in the midst of the war, most restful to the soul,
especially after a visit to the line. Of course, we had to be careful about screening all lights,
for a shell landed one night in a hut opposite mine. Luckily the shell was a "dud". Had it
not been, my sergeant, groom, and batman would have been no more, for it burrowed its way into
the ground under the floor of their abode, as they were having supper.

On one occasion about one in the morning, we were awakened from sleep by three terrific explosions.
They sounded close, so I thought that some of our men might have been hit. I got up and went
off to see where the shells had landed. The quaint old hamlet lay silent in the moonlight,
and not a soul was stirring. I went down one of the narrow streets, and met a tall figure in
black coming towards me. It was the Curé, who was bent on a similar mission, fearing that some
of his people had been wounded. We went round the place together until we met a man coming
up the road, who told us that a bomb had struck the railway bridge and exploded two mines which
we had in readiness in case the Germans were to make an advance. The bridge had been completely
shattered, but luckily our sentries there had escaped. The Curé and I then parted and went
back to our beds.

It was a great treat for our men who were billeted in villages in  (p. 249) the Scarpe Valley
to have plenty of water, and in the various mill-ponds they found swimming-places. Our front
line at this time extended for quite a long distance north and south of the Scarpe. In fact
the river acted for a short distance as No Man's Land. On the north of the Scarpe were the
ruins of the village of Fampoux, and on the south those of Feuchy. How well our men will remember
the towns of Maroeil, Anzin, St. Nicholas and St. Aubin. I used to go off across the meadow
lands, now bright and fresh with spring verdure, till I got to the St. Eloi road, and then
by jumping lorries would make my way to St. Nicholas and on to Cam Valley. On the east side
of the valley were quaint dugouts which were occupied by the battalion in reserve. A path up
the valley led to the communication trench, and finally down Pudding Lane to Pudding Trench.
The ground was elevated, so that from one of the trenches which led down towards Fampoux I
was able to see with my glasses the country behind the German lines. I saw quite distinctly
one day the spires of Douai, and in another direction on a hillside I could make out a railway
train which must have been carrying German troops. I had many interesting walks through the
trenches, and slept there several times. On one occasion I took Alberta with me, but she would
persist in going off into No Man's Land hunting for rats. The arrival of a minnenwerfer, however,
gave her a great fright and made her jump back into the trench with alacrity, much to the amusement
of the men, who said that she knew the use of trenches.

One day I went down the trench which led into Fampoux. Whizzbangs were falling every now and
then, so the men were keeping low. At one place there was a good view of the German lines.
An officer and a sergeant stood there looking through their glasses and pointed out to me a
spot in the hillside opposite where we could see a number of the enemy. They came out of one
trench, crossed the road, and went down into another. The officer told me that he had counted
over a hundred that day. I asked him why he did not telephone to Battalion Headquarters to
inform the artillery. He told me he had no telephone. Then I said, "Why don't you send a runner?"
He explained that Fampoux was occupied as an outpost, and that no runners were allowed to be
sent from there during the daytime; orders to this effect being very strict. "I am not a runner,"
I said, "and I am not in your Battalion. If you will give me the map-location of the place
where you think the Germans are   (p. 250) congregating, I will take it back with me to the
liaison officer at Battalion Headquarters." He was very pleased with my offer, because at this
time we were daily expecting a big attack upon our lines. To get back we had to crawl down
a steep place in the trench, which was in view of the Germans, until at last we reached the
cellar of a ruined house which the O.C. of the company used as a billet. He got out his maps
and gave me the exact location of the road and trenches where the Germans had been seen to
pass, and where apparently they were massing. I got him to write down the map-location carefully
on a piece of paper, and then, armed with this and feeling very important, I started back,
this time avoiding the trench and going up the Fampoux road on the side of which there was
some torn and broken camouflage. I came across a steel helmet by the wayside with part of a
man's head in it, and the road had been pretty well battered by shells, but I felt exceedingly
proud at being able to do something which might possibly avert an attack upon our men. I went
on till at last I saw in the hillside the beginning of a trench, and made my way up this to
Pudding lane and found Battalion Headquarters. The Artillery officer had been having a quiet
time and was delighted at the prospect of ordering a "shoot." At once he telephoned back to
the brigade, and not long after, when the quiet sun was setting in the West, a most terrific
bombardment of artillery, both field and heavy, smashed the German trenches on the hill opposite.
The headquarters men and I looked over the valley and saw the line of bursting shells. Much
to their amusement, I told them that this was my music, that I had ordered the shoot. I felt
like the fly on the axle of a cart, who said to his companion fly, "Look at the dust we are
making."

On another occasion, I was filled with almost equal pride, when, meeting on the roadside a
company of men who were going into the trenches for the first time and were waiting for a guide,
I offered my services and actually led the company of young heroes into the trenches myself.
The humour of the situation was so palpable that the men felt as if they were going to a picnic.

The trenches on the Feuchy side of the Scarpe were well made, and led up to the higher ground
to the east of Arras, where they joined the lines of a Scots Division. At one point we saw
in No Man's Land a lonely tent, which I was told had been occupied by a British chaplain before
we had been driven back. I paid a most enjoyable visit to   (p. 251) the engineers in Arras
and stayed at Battalion Headquarters. They were in a large and comfortable house in the Place
St. Croix. In the dining room we had a grate fire, a rug on the floor, and several easy chairs.
A most sumptuous dinner was served, and one could scarcely believe that we were in a war.

The men of the battalion were billeted in the deep cellars under a row of houses at the end
of the Grande Place. Some of these houses dated back to the time of the Spanish occupation,
so the cellars must have been very ancient. They were vaulted in stone and were connected together
by passages, so they were not only quite safe from shells but were exceedingly interesting
and picturesque. We had several services for the men and one for a field ambulance which made
its home in the Deaf and Dumb Asylum. In a large room in the Asylum there was a good piano,
so it enabled us to use the place at one time as a church and at another as a ballroom. There
was a strange charm about dear old Arras which is quite indescribable. In spite of the ruined
buildings and the damaged grass-grown streets, there was the haunting beauty of a quiet medievalism
about the city. The narrow streets, the pleasant gardens hidden behind the houses, spoke of
an age that had passed. Arras has been the centre of interest in many wars, and Julius Caesar
made his headquarters there in B.C. 65. The river Scarpe has carried to the sea many memories
of hostile hosts that have fought along its banks. To walk back from the dressing station in
the small hours of the morning, when the moon was shining on the silent and half-ruined streets
and squares, was a weird experience. Surely, if ghosts ever haunt the scenes of their earthly
life, I must have had many unseen companions with me on such occasions. There were still two
or three shops in the place where souvenirs and other small articles were sold to the men,
and there were hoards of champagne and other wines in some of the cellars, but only a few of
the inhabitants remained and they lived hidden lives in the underground retreats.

Our Division, however, was soon moved from Etrun to Château d'Acq, where I arrived at four
one morning after a visit to the trenches. I found my billet in an Armstrong hut. The people
who had occupied the Château since we were there must have experienced an air raid, because
extraordinary precautions had been taken to guard against bombs. I lit my lamp and found that
the bed was surrounded on all sides by a    (p. 252) wall composed of two thicknesses of sandbags.
When I got down Into it I felt as if I were in a grave. In the morning I got my batman to remove
the fortification, as I thought there was no occasion to anticipate the sensations of being
buried. However, at night I often heard German aeroplanes overhead, and it was a relief when
their intermittent buzzing died off into the distance.

We were now a long way from the front line, but by jumping lorries I was still able to go forward
and visit the slums. On returning from such a visit one afternoon I suffered a great loss.
The order had gone out some time before that all stray dogs were to be shot, and many poor
little four-footed souls were sent into whatever happy land is reserved for the race which
has been the earliest and best friend of man. I had kept a sharp lookout on Alberta, but I
never dreamt that anyone would shoot her. However, that evening while I was getting ready to
go off to Ecoivres, and Alberta was playing in front of my hut, the sergeant of the police,
carried her off, unknown to me, and ordered a man to shoot her. When I came out from my hut,
and whistled for my faithful friend, I was told that she had been condemned to death. I could
hardly believe it; but to my dismay I found that it was only too true, and the poor little
dog, who was known all over the Division and had paid many visits to the trenches, was not
only shot but buried. Filled with righteous anger, I had the body disinterred and a proper
grave dug for it in front of a high tree which stands on a hill at the back of the grounds.
There, surrounded by stones, is the turf-covered mound, and on the tree is nailed a white board
with this epitaph neatly painted in black:--

      HERE LIES ALBERTA
         of Albert
    Shot April 24th, 1918.

  The dog that by a cruel end
    Now sleeps beneath this tree,
  Was just the little dog and friend
    God wanted her to be.

Alberta, much respected in life, was honoured in death, for nearly all the men at Headquarters
were present when she was buried, and one of them told me that at a word from me they would
lay out the police. (p. 253) I should have liked to have given the word, but I told them that
we had a war on with the Germans, and that we had better not start another till it was finished.
On the following day the board with the epitaph was placed in position in the presence of a
Brigadier-General and our kind-hearted and sympathetic C.R.E. I was so filled with indignation
at the loss of my companion, who, wherever I tied up Dandy, would always mount guard over him
and allow no one to approach him, that I determined to seek a billet away from Headquarters,
and near the front. However, this intention was frustrated a day or two later by an order which
came through for our Division to go into rest at a place called Le Cauroy, not far from the
town of Frevent, and about 15 kilometres to the southwest of Château d'Acq.

CHAPTER XXVIII.                                                    (p. 254)

SPORTS AND PASTIMES.

May and June, 1918.

It was late in the evening when I reached the Château at Le Cauroy, and I found that I was
to be billeted in the house of the Curé, on one side of the fine avenue of lime trees. Ross
was waiting for me and took the horse, and I went inside to my room. A curious sensation came
over me of having seen the place before. It seemed as if I had been there in one of my dreams,
but the mystery was cleared up on the following day by my finding out from the Vicaire that
this was the place where I had spent such a gloomy Sunday on the 22nd of October, 1916, during
our return from the Somme. The count who owned the Château was naval attaché to the French
Embassy in London, but his wife and children, with the servants, occupied apartments on the
right wing of the building. The presence of a lady gave a special charm to the place, and tennis
on a good court under the trees in the park was most enjoyable. On several occasions some of
our Canadian Sisters from the C.C.S. at Frevent honoured us with their presence at dinner,
which was followed by a dance. Under the trees in the avenue, a most picturesque open theatre
was erected by the engineers, and here our concert party gave us nightly performances of their
new play, which was called "The Marriage Market." Hundreds of men from the battalions around
would sit on the soft grass under the overhanging trees through which we could see the stars,
and on the brightly lighted stage, with the orchestra in front, we had an exhibition of real
talent. The weather was delightful and the men enjoyed a holiday in the country. At a little
distance behind the Château there was a clear stream blocked by an ancient mill-dam. Here we
could get a swim and bask in the sun in the long cool grass. Altogether we were very happy
at Le Cauroy.

A great change had come over the war at this time, for Foch had assumed the supreme command.
While we had had excellent leaders all through the campaign, one always felt that there was
a need for some electrifying personality at the head of things. In a mysterious    (p. 255)
way the knowledge that Foch had taken the conduct of the war in hand gave us just that touch
of magnetism which we needed. As matters stood, the German attacks had been successful up to
a certain point, but we were still waiting for their main offensive. When or where this was
to begin we did not know, but we were convinced that it would be, for us, a life or death struggle.
The fact that Foch was in command and that he was keeping his head gave us confidence. He seemed
like a surgeon who shows his greatness by the very coolness with which he performs some critical
operation. The men were always asking if we were losing the war, and I always told them that
it was like this--the Germans were advancing and losing and we were retreating and winning.
We practised daily the art of open warfare for which the country round us offered splendid
opportunities. We knew that we had been taken out of the line in order to prepare to become
"shock troops", and the knowledge of this gave our life a great inspiration.

It was the right policy, in view of what was before us, to give the men all the amusement possible,
so football and baseball were indulged in freely by officers and men. We were too well trained
now to worry much about the future. In fact, although I had often preached on the text, "Sufficient
unto the day is the evil thereof," I never fully acted upon the principle until I had been
in the war for three years. It is certainly the true secret of happiness and I hope that the
softer life of peace time will not rob one of it. When Mrs. Carlyle was asked what caused her
most suffering in life, she replied, "The things which never happened," It would have surprised
the people at home if they could have seen the cheeriness and lightheartedness of men who were
being trained day by day to deliver the hammer strokes which were to smash the huge war machine
of Imperial Germany.

The 2nd Brigade one day gave us a most successful circus in a large field near our Headquarters.
The arrangements and weather were perfect, and the spectators were delighted with a performance
that surpassed Buffalo Bill's Wild West show. Afternoon tea and dancing followed at a chateau,
and aeroplanes gave us a fine exhibition of the skill of the new branch of the service by flying
low and dropping messages and red smoke bombs. I met one of the young airmen, and in a fit
of enthusiasm asked him if he would take me up with him some day. He was quite keen about it,
and asked me to let him know when to   (p. 256) send for me. Our plans, however, were upset
a day or two afterwards by the Headquarters of the Division moving off to the beautiful Château
at Villers Chatel. They left in the morning, and as usual I followed leisurely on Dandy. I
went through some pretty villages. No soldiers were to be seen, and the quiet ordinary life
of the people was undisturbed by the war. The world was bathed in sunshine and the fields were
brilliant with new crops. Every little hamlet was embowered in trees, and the small white houses
with their red tiled roofs spoke of peace. In the solemn light of evening I came to the entrance
gate of my new home.

The Château of Villers Chatel was a fine modern building with an old round tower at one end.
This tower is all that remains of the original structure, but it was kept in good condition
and the interior was most artistically arranged. My room was in the garret and was approached
by a spiral staircase, very narrow and steep. The Château was enlivened by the presence of
two Countesses; both very pleasant ladies who had their own apartments and who kindly entertained
us at night in their cheery drawing-room. On the wide lawn in front of the Château a huge chestnut
tree stood, rich in leaves, with low boughs branching in all directions and covering a wide
radius, and with their tips almost touching the grass. The tree furnished a green shelter for
a large number of persons. The sun could not penetrate the foliage, and the giant trunk was
covered with rugged bark beautifully coloured. Here, on Sunday mornings, I placed my flag-covered
altar, and Church Parade was held under the tree. The men, over a hundred in number, stood
in a semi-circle in front of me, and the bright sunlight beyond the rim of overhanging boughs
lit up the green grass around. It was one of the most beautiful places imaginable for a church
service, and the branches made a vaulted roof overhead. On one side of the garden was a large
and elaborate cement grotto, and a statue of the Blessed Virgin stood in a niche at the back.
Seats for worshippers were placed in front. The Countesses were moved by piety to keep a number
of candles blazing in the grotto all night, invoking thereby the protection of Our Lady. Our
staff, who walked not by faith but by sight, were much worried by the strong light which could
easily be seen from a German aeroplane. However, no one could muster up courage enough to interfere
with the devotion of our hostesses, and as a matter of fact we never had any bombing raids
at Villers Chatel. It was a question among   (p. 257) the officers as to whether our immunity
should be attributed to the power of prayer or to extraordinary good-luck.

At the end of the lawn facing the Château was a forest of magnificent trees. It was in the
fields at the back of this wood that we had held the memorial service for the 2nd Brigade,
which I have already described. One of the forest paths was in the form of a pergola. The trees
had been trimmed so that the boughs overhead were interlaced and it went for about half a mile
into the forest, like the vaulted aisle of a church. The sunlight through the green leaves
overhead cast on the pathway a mysterious light suggestive of fairyland.

Our battalions were once more in their old billets in the neighbourhood, and as we were still
at rest I had many opportunities of visiting them. How well I remember going about and delivering
my lecture on our leave trip to Rome. As I look back upon my war-memories, I think that those
talks were the most delightful experiences I have ever had. I really had nothing to say, but
I knew that anything which could occupy and amuse the minds of those brave lads, who were daily
preparing to hurl themselves against the enemy, was worth while. I would go to the C.O. of
a battalion and say, "Colonel, I would like to come and give your men a talk on our leave trip
to Rome." He would always take the matter very seriously, thinking I had some learned discourse
on architecture, or some other absolutely futile subject to give the men. But being too polite
to tell me to go to Jericho, or somewhere else, he would say, "Yes, I am sure it would be very
interesting. How long will the lecture last?" On my replying, "About two hours and a half,"
his countenance would fall. He was struggling between his fear of offending me and his fear
of doing something which would bore the men. Sometimes colonels would say, "That's a long lecture."
But I urged them to take my word for it and to let the thing go ahead, and if I saw I was boring
the men I would stop. So the lecture would be announced. I suppose I must have given it to
something like twenty thousand men. I would arrive at the battalion headquarters in the afternoon,
have dinner with the C.O. and Adjutant in their billet, and then walk over to some pleasant
field on which a thousand men were drawn up in line, presenting a most proper military appearance.
The sun would be setting behind the trees which skirted the parade ground, and, after telling
the Colonel and      (p. 258) other officers to keep in the background, I would go over in
front of the battalion and tell them that the Colonel had handed the parade over to me, and
that they were to break ranks and sit on the ground as close as possible. At once military
stiffness was dispelled, and amid much laughter the men would crowd around and squat on the
ground tightly packed together. Imagine what a picture that was. Splendid stalwart young men
they were, hundreds and hundreds of them, with healthy merry faces, and behind them in the
distance the green trees and the sunset. Of course smoking was allowed, and I generally had
some boxes of cigarettes to pass round. Then I would tell them of our trip to Rome and of my
following out the injunction of making the most of a fortnight's leave by turning it into three
weeks; of my puzzling the R.T.O. in Paris by asking for transportation to Rome via Marseilles,
as we had abandoned the idea of travelling via Calcutta on account of the submarine menace;
of my being unable to enter the Casino at Monte Carlo because officers were not admitted in
uniform, and the only mufti I had brought with me was my pyjamas which I had left at the hotel;
of the two casualties in the Paris barrage; of the time I gave C.B. to "Yorky" when I saw he
had partaken too freely of coffee, and of the delightful memories of Italy which we had brought
back with us. The talk was not all humorous. I managed to get in many little sermons between
the lines, or as I put it, "the lecture was impregnated with the poison of morality." Men assimilated
that poison more readily when handed out to them in such doses. Then the sun would set and
the evening shadows lengthen, and finally the stars would come out over the scene and the mass
of men before me would merge into one great blur, which sent up, nevertheless, roars of merry
laughter. What appealed to them most was the way a padré and forty-four wild Canadians, in
the biggest war the world has ever known, were able to break through the Hindenburg line of
army red tape.

Our machine gun battalion was quartered south of the St. Pol road at a place called Averdoignt.
It was a lovely little village, very quiet and well away from the line, with pretty orchards
and a stream at the back. When it was only possible to have a voluntary service in the evening,
I would get a group of men as a body-guard and start off down the village to the quaint old
church, halting at every farmyard on the way and calling out to those billeted there, "Come
on, you heathen, come to the voluntary church parade." In the most good-natured     (p. 259)
way, dragging their reluctant pals with them, men would come out and swell our ranks until,
by the time we reached the church, there was a good congregation. There against the wall of
the building I would plant a table borrowed from the Curé's house, make it into an altar, distribute
hymn books, and start the service, while the evening lights in the sky tinged the scene with
a soft beauty.

When we were in the line the machine-gunners were always split up into small sections over
the front, their guns of course being very carefully concealed. In consequence, just when I
thought I had reached an area which was quite uninhabited, I would stumble on some queer little
hole, and, on calling down it to see if there were any men there, the answer would be, "The
machine-gun battalion," and I would find myself among friends. At Averdoignt they had one of
the best rest billets they ever had, and they enjoyed it thoroughly.

Owing to the great distance which I had to cover in doing my parish visiting among the battalions,
the difficulty of transportation, which had been serious from the beginning, became even more
pressing, and some good friend suggested to me on the quiet that I should try to get a Clino,
(that is a machine-gun side-car) from the Motor Machine-Gun Brigade. With great trepidation,
I made an excursion one day to their headquarters at Verdrel. The O.C. was most kind and sympathetic.
I shall never cease to invoke blessings upon his head. He took me over to the machine-shop
and there presented to me, for my use until it should be recalled, a new Clino which had just
come up from the base. The officer in charge uttered a protest by saying that they only had
six Clinos for the Brigade, but the major remarked dryly, "And after Canon Scott has got his
we shall only have five." Surely once again the Lord had provided for me. I was driven back
to the Château in the new machine, but then had to find a driver. One was provided by the signallers.
He was a graduate in science of McGill, so I used to lay stress upon my personal greatness
from the fact that I had a university graduate for my chauffeur. Many and varied were the drives
which Lyons and I had together, and many and varied were our adventures. Had the Clino not
been both exceedingly strong and very new it would have come to grief long before it did. To
go rattling down the St. Pol road at forty-five kilometres an hour was a frequent occurrence.
All I had to sit upon was a seat without arms, while my foot rested on a bar in (p. 260) front.
People asked me how it was I did not tumble off. I told them that I tied myself to the back
of the seat with my spinal cord. I got the sappers to make me a large box which fitted on the
back of the vehicle and had a padlock. In it I used to carry my bag of a thousand hymn books
and other necessaries for church parades, and on the top of the box, as a protection to my
car, I had the words "Canon Scott" painted in large white letters. The dust as we threaded
our way through the streams of lorries almost choked us, but we could cover the ground in a
short space of time which was a great thing. Lyons never managed the lights very successfully,
and one rainy night after midnight, when I was returning from saying good-bye to the artillery
who were moving South, in a lonely part of the road he ran the machine into some bushes on
a bank by the wayside, and we found ourselves sitting in the mud without our hats. We did not
know where we were and the rain was heavy, but we managed to disentangle the car and finally
got home, resolving that further night excursions were out of the question. About a fortnight
afterwards I received an order to return the Clino, but before I did so I journeyed to Corps
Headquarters and made a passionate appeal to General Currie for its retention. As a result
I received a private intimation to keep the car and say nothing about it. Of course I was the
envy of everyone, and when they asked me how I got the Clino I said I did not exactly know.
Whether it was sent to me from heaven with the assistance of General Currie, or whether it
was sent to me from General Currie with the assistance of heaven, was a theological question
which I had no time to go into during the war. When our Division was marching into Germany,
after I was knocked out of the campaign, the dear old signallers used to patch up the Clino,
even making new parts for it, in order that Canon Scott's car might get into Germany. Alas!
the poor thing, like the one-horse shay, went to pieces finally one day and had to be left
at Mons. During those last busy months, I do not know how I could have got on without it.

As I was a bit under the weather at this time my friend, General Thacker, invited me to go
and stay with him at his headquarters in the Château at Berles, where I was given a charming
room looking out on the garden. I found myself in the midst of the artillery brigades who were
now at rest, and very pleasant it was to see them away from the unwholesome gun-pits where
they were usually to be found. I could  (p. 261) lie on the grass in the garden, read one of
Trollope's novels and listen to the birds overhead. A walk through the wood led to a huge field
of scarlet poppies, which, when the sun shone upon it, made a blaze of colour which I have
never seen equalled. As one approached it, one could see the red glow light up the stems of
the trees as though they were aflame.

We had many boxing and baseball contests, which roused great excitement, but the crowning glory
of the time was the Divisional sports which were held in a large field at a place called Tincques
on the St. Pol road. A grandstand and many marquees had been erected, and the various events
gave great delight to the thousands of spectators. In the evening our concert party gave a
performance on the stage in the open air, which was witnessed by a large and enthusiastic audience.
After it was all over, I unexpectedly met my airman friend, Johnny Johnson, who told me that
he had been waiting a long time to take me up in his machine. I explained to him that, owing
to our headquarters having moved away to Le Cauroy, I thought it was too far off to get in
touch with him. In my secret heart, I had looked upon my removal as a special intervention
of Providence on my behalf, but Johnny was not disposed, however, to allow any difficulty to
stand in the way, so it was arranged that he should send for me at Berles the following day
and take me to the headquarters of the 13th Squadron at Izel-les-Hameaux. There was nothing
for it but to jump with alacrity at such a noble offer, so on the following morning I started
off in the Squadron's car for their headquarters.

My pilot had gone off to bring up the new machine which was to take me on my first aerial voyage.
The Squadron had most comfortable billets in huts, and were a most charming lot of young men.
A Canadian amongst them, taking pity upon a fellow-countryman, gave me a kind introduction
to his fellow officers. Johnny Johnson returned in the afternoon, and during tea I heard him
explaining to the other men that he had had his choice of two machines, an old machine with
a new engine and the other a new machine with an old engine. Although I was engaged in conversation
at the other end of the table, I listened with great interest to this discussion, and felt
much relieved when I heard that Johnny's choice of an old machine with a new engine was approved
of by his hearers. He told me that the air was very bumpy and that he would not take me up
until the sun was lower in the sky. Having arrived at that happy   (p. 262) state of inward
peace which a man experiences when he goes off to the dentist to have a tooth pulled, I did
not mind when I was to be taken up. At six o'clock, however, Johnny said we must get ready,
so I was provided with a fur-lined leather coat, leather helmet, goggles and a large pair of
fur gauntlets. We went over to the aerodrome where our fiery steed was champing its bit as
though longing to spring into the "vast inane." Two or three attendants were getting it ready.
It was an R.E.8 plane and a machine gun was fixed on one side. Johnny climbed into his position
and I took a seat behind him. An attendant came up and asked my name and address. It sounded
as if I were making my last will and testament. I had a letter with me addressed to my son
which I was to drop over his battery lines in Liévin, and also a red smoke bomb but declined
an invitation to take any more formidable weapon. Then I told my pilot not to be anxious about
me whatever happened. I always expected to be killed at the front so never worried how or when
the event was to occur. The engine was then started. For a time the machine meandered about
the field without showing any disposition to mount into the air and I was beginning to think,
like the Irishman who was taken for a ride one day in a sedan chair that had no bottom in it,
that, "If it were not for the honour and glory of the thing I might as lief walk," when, all
of a sudden, we began to plunge, left the ground, and, mid a fearful buzzing, mounted higher
and higher. We rose over the huts and above the village trees and then by a corkscrew motion
which necessitated the machine going almost on its edge, we made our way heavenwards. I did
not feel the least bit seasick but it was a curious sensation to look down and see absolutely
nothing between me and the church of Izel-les-Hameaux crowned by its sharp pointed spire with
no cork on it. I looked at my young friend in front of me, who was busy with the handles and
cranks of his machine. He was only a boy of nineteen and my fate was literally in his hands,
but his head was well set on his shoulders and he seemed completely self-possessed and confident.
After we had mounted to six thousand feet, we struck out in the direction of the front.

It was a lovely afternoon and a most wonderful panorama spread below us. The great plain beneath
us was marked off like a chessboard in squares of various shades of yellow and green, dotted
here and there with little villages surrounded by the billowy crests of trees. We saw straight
white roads going off in all directions, and beyond,      (p. 263) towards the east, low murky
clouds behind the German lines. We flew on and on till we reached the war zone and here the
fields were marked by horse-tracks and the villages had been hit with shells. Before us in
the distance I saw the line of our observation balloons and thought, if anything happened to
the machine, I would get out into one of them, but when we passed over them they looked like
specks on the ground below. I could see the blue ribbon of the Scarpe winding off into the
great mists to the east, and then beneath us lay the old city of Arras. I could see the ruined
Cathedral, the mass of crooked streets and the tiny, dusty roads. Further on was the railway
triangle, where one night later on I got a good dose of gas, and then I saw the trenches at
Fampoux and Feuchy. Still onward we sailed, till at last Johnny Johnson shouted back, at the
same time pointing downwards, "The German trenches." I saw the enemy lines beneath us, and
then Johnny shouted, "Now I am going to dip." It was not the thing I specially wanted to do
at that particular moment, but I supposed it was all right. The plane took a dive, and then
Johnny leaned over and fired off some rounds of the machine gun into the German lines. We turned
to come back and rose in the air, when, in the roar of the wind I heard a bang behind me, and
looking round saw, hanging in the air, a ball of thick black smoke. Then there was another
beneath us and some more at one side. In all, the Germans followed us with six shells. Johnny
turned round and shouted, asking me how I felt. "Splendid", I said, for I really did enjoy
the novelty of the experience. Many times have I looked up into the clouds and seen a machine
followed by "Archies" and wondered what it felt like to be up there, and now I knew. One phrase
however, which I had often read in the newspapers kept ringing in my ears--"Struck the petrol
tank and the machine came down in flames." And the last verse of "Nearer my God to Thee," also
ran through my head, "Or if on joyful wing upwards I fly." We turned now to the right and flew
over Vimy Ridge, and then made two or three turns round Liévin where, above his battery, I
dropped the letter for my son. It was delivered to him two weeks afterwards in a hospital in
London. We flew out over Lens and crossed the German lines again, skirting the district which
the Germans had flooded and then turned our faces homewards. Above the Château at Villers Chatel,
I dropped the red smoke bomb. We circled round in the air at a great height while I wrote on
a piece of paper, "Canon Scott drops his blessing from the clouds on 1st Canadian Divisional
Headquarters," and put  (p. 264) it in the little pocket of leaded streamers. Alas, it was
lost in a wheat field and so did not do them any more good than the other blessings I have
dropped upon them. We then turned to Berles where I could see beneath me the old house and
the tiny beings in white playing tennis on the court. We reached the aerodrome at Izel-les-Hameaux
and landed safely after being in the air for fifty-five minutes. It was a most delightful experience
for a non-combatant. The next day the engine of the machine gave out and Johnny Johnson was
compelled to make a forced landing. Luckily it was behind our lines. I went several times again
to try to have another flight, but from the excuses made I inferred that joy-rides of this
description had been banned. The following year in London I heard by accident that poor Johnny
Johnson had been killed a few weeks after our trip. He was a splendid young fellow and absolutely
without fear. May his brave soul rest in peace.

Nearly two months had passed since we had been in the line, and the Germans had made no attack.
We wondered what had happened to them. I thought that perhaps influenza had laid them low.
At any rate we were not anxious to end the happy time we were having. The climax of our glory
was reached on the 1st of July when we celebrated the birthday of the Dominion by Corps sports
on the field at Tincques. It was a most wonderful occasion.

Dominion Day fell on a Monday, and on the previous afternoon, knowing that large bodies of
men, including the contestants, were congregated at Tincques, I determined to go over and pay
them a visit. I found the village full of troops and all very keen about the next day's show.
In a little lane, were some 1st Division men, and they were enjoying the excitement of a game
which was very popular at the front, called "Crown and Anchor." It is played with special dice
on a board or square of green canvas. On the canvas were painted an anchor and crown and I
think a heart and spade. The game was banned by the army on account of its unfairness. The
banker had, I think, sixty-four chances to one in his favour. The consequence of this was that
very soon he became possessed of all the money which green youths, unsuspecting their disadvantage,
chose to lay on the board. This game, in the hands of a sharper, was often the means of robbing
a battalion of very large sums of money; sometimes forty thousand francs were made by the banker.
The police had orders to arrest anyone playing it and I used to    (p. 265) do my best to stamp
it out. Though I do not play for money myself, I never could see any great harm in those poor
boys out there getting a little relaxation from their terrible nervous strain by a game of
bridge or poker for a few francs. But a game which was founded wholly on dishonesty was something
which I felt was unworthy of our men. Whenever I saw them crowding round a little spot on the
grass I knew there was a game of crown and anchor going on, and I would shout, "Look out, boys,
I am going to put the horse on the old mud hook"--a phrase I had heard the men use--and then
canter Dandy into their midst scattering them in all directions. Over and over again I have
gone into a ring of men and given the banker five minutes to decide whether he would hand over
his board and dice to me or have his name reported to the police. He never failed to do the
former, although sometimes he looked rather surly at losing a very fruitful source of revenue.
I have brought home with me enough crown and anchor dice to make the mouth of an old soldier
water. On this occasion I became possessed of the crown and anchor board and the dice in the
usual way. But, as the men said they wanted to have some amusement, I went to an officer's
billet and got a pack of cards for them, and they settled down to a game of poker.

Some pious souls proposed that I should have a service that evening in the field where the
sports were to be held. I thought that it would be a good idea, but was not sure how large
a congregation I should have. I got together a little body-guard in the village and we went
off collecting stragglers by the way. When we came to the corner of the field where I proposed
to hold my service, we found to my dismay that it was full of masses of men crowding around
what I knew were crown and anchor boards on the ground. I did not mind doing police work in
my own Division, where I was known by the men, but I did not feel called upon to act as A.P.M.
for the Corps, so I had to start another line of campaign. I marched on at the head of my congregation
straight into the midst of the gamblers. The men on the outskirts saw me coming and I could
see them warning the players. Those sitting on the ground stood up and wondered what was going
to happen. Looking very serious, I went right through the crowd, without saying anything, to
a distance on the other side, and then the curiosity of the men was aroused and they all followed.
When I stood still I found myself surrounded by hundreds of men who were waiting to see what
I was going to do.    (p. 266) Without a smile, I pulled out the crown and anchor board from
my pocket and, to the astonishment of all, laid it on the ground and called out, in the gamblers'
language, "Who is for the old sergeant-major?" Never before have I seen such an expression
of surprise on people's faces. Among the crowd were some Imperial soldiers and they could not
make out what sort of padré I was. For a moment, in spite of the grinning countenances of the
1st Division men, there was a pause of silent horror. Then they all burst into a roar of laughter,
and I told them I had come out there that evening, as it was Sunday, to hold a service and
did not know what text to take for a sermon. Now they had given me one. I held up the crown
and anchor board and said I was going to preach about that, and I delivered a discourse on
honesty. When it was over, they asked me to give my lecture on our leave trip to Rome. I thought
it might be a good diversion for the time. My side-car was brought up, and sitting on it, in
the midst of the men, who crowded about me on the ground, I gave them a long talk which lasted
until it was too dark for any more crown and anchor.

The next day brought us glorious weather, and from early in the morning battalions were pouring
into Tincques. The grounds were splendidly laid out and bordered with many stands and marquees.
There must have been nearly forty-thousand spectators present. The Duke of Connaught, Sir Robert
Borden, and all sorts of great people attended, and the playing of "O Canada" by the massed
bands was something which, as a British General told me, made a big lump come in one's throat.
It was the last Dominion Day we were to spend in France. We were on the eve of tremendous events,
and it was a splendid manifestation of Canada's glory at the front. There was such a gathering
of old friends who had not met for years, that one really could not attend to the various events
and sports that were taking place. We met for a moment, and the old days would be talked over,
and then we parted, some, alas, never to meet again in this world. That vast crowd which fringed
the huge expanse of ground was quite the most thrilling spectacle that Canadians had ever seen.
Tincques must be a quiet place now, and perhaps only a few marks in the great field still remain
to show where the sports were held. But there were gathered there that day the vast host of
noble gentlemen who saved the honour and freedom of our young country.

CHAPTER XXIX.                                                      (p. 267)

THE BEGINNING OF THE END.

July to August 7th, 1918.

The possession of a side-car gave me the opportunity of getting much further afield in my visits.
Our 1st Divisional wing, where the new drafts were received and trained for the front line,
was at this time back in a place called Loison, in the quiet and beautiful country between
St. Pol and General Headquarters. I had done a great deal of parish visiting among our battalions
in rest and given the story of my leave trip to Rome many times, so I thought I would make
an excursion to the Base. We had a delightful trip down the St. Pol road through little villages
and towns which looked as they did in pre-war days. The country where the Divisional wing was
stationed was very charming. It was well watered by many pretty rivers, and hills covered with
trees gave diversity to the landscape. I told the men they were living in a land flowing with
milk and honey. I stayed at the headquarters of the wing in a delightful old house on a hill
surrounded with fine trees. Each Brigade had its own reserve, so there were many men in the
village, and an old mill pond enabled me to have two or three good swims. In a Y.M.C.A. tent,
courses of lectures in connection with the Khaki University were being given on various subjects.
One evening, naturally I gave them a talk on our leave trip to Rome. On another, in a corner
of the field, I gave them an informal lecture on English literature. Having got so far from
home, I determined to go a little further, and so we made a trip to Boulogne, where my son
who had been gassed was still in a C.C.S., and that afternoon on our return we went to Montreuil
to see what G.H.Q. looked like. I was told that Montreuil was a very picturesque old walled
city, but that we should not be allowed to enter. However, I had been able to do so many forbidden
things in the war that I thought it would be worth trying, so the old Clino sped over the hard
macadamized roads from Boulogne till we came to the valley on the opposite side of which the
town is situated. We saw many cars coming and going, and many troops by the way, and finally
we sped up the hill which leads to the entrance gate. A sentry was standing there, who saluted
most properly, and we passed into  (p. 268) the sacred city without molestation. It was a delightful
old French town, full of historical interest. The narrow streets and quaint old buildings carried
one back in thought to the days of chivalry and battles waged by knights in shining armour.
We saw some of the churches, and then went to the officers' club for tea. The waitresses at
the club were English girls who had taken the place of the men needed at the front. I got them
to provide for my friend Lyons in their sitting-room, and I went in to have tea with the officers.
A great many were there sitting at small tables. It was interesting to see the badges of so
many different regiments. Most of the officers had a good supply of ribbons, and a few of them
had lost an eye or a limb, or bore other marks of wounds. I think that almost all of them were
staff officers and that some of them were generals. It struck me that the atmosphere to a stranger
was rather chilly. The demeanour of the people was much less free than that which we had been
accustomed to at the front. Of course Montreuil held the brains of the army, and it was quite
right that the directing intelligences there should feel the loftiness of their position. I
made up two lines as I was having tea, which I thought hit off the mental attitude of some
of the officers present, when they saw a stranger and looked him up and down through their
monocles,

  "I'm on the staff of the G.H.Q.,
  And I'd like to know who the devil are you?"

There had been such a democratic upsetting of traditions and customs in the Service, owing
to the obliteration of the original British Army, that it was quite refreshing to find that
a remnant of Israel had been saved.

I paid two visits to the Divisional wing within a few days of each other, and on one occasion,
on a baking July day, addressed a battalion of draftees who were about to be sent up to the
front. They were a fine looking lot of men and knew their drill. Poor boys, they little knew
what was in store for them in those last hundred days of the war.

Rumours were current now that the time for our great attack had come, so there were no more
joy-rides for me to the pleasant fields and society of Loison. On my return on July 14th I
found our Headquarters once again at Etrun, and our Division were holding their old       (p.
269) trenches to the north and south of the Scarpe. Once more I had the pleasure of sleeping
in Pudding trench and doing what I called "consolidating the line." I did a good deal of parish
visiting in the trenches at this time. I felt that big changes might occur at any moment, and
I wanted to be with the men in any ordeal through which they might have to pass. Very strange
scenes come before me as I look back upon those days before our great attack. One night I stayed
with the gallant Colonel of the Canadian Scottish at Tilloy. His headquarters were in No Man's
Land, and the front trench ran in a semi-circle to the rear. The Colonel, having found a good
German dugout in the cellars of the ruined chateau, preferred to make his headquarters there.
We did not know where the enemy's front line was, and our men were doing outpost duty in shell-holes
further forward. They had to be visited every two hours when it was dark, to see that all was
well. That night I asked the Colonel if I might go out with the patrol. He demurred at first,
and then gave his consent only on condition that I should take off my white collar, and promise
not to make any jokes with the men on duty for fear they should laugh and give away our position.
I made my promise and started with the patrol officer and his runner. It was a curious sensation
wandering off in the darkness as silently as possible, tripping now and then on bits of wire
and almost slipping into the trenches. We came to the different shell-holes and whispered conversations
were held. The sentries seemed surprised when I spoke to them, as they could not recognize
me in the darkness. I whispered that I had promised the Colonel not to tell any funny stories
for fear they should laugh, so I merely gave them the benediction, in return for which spiritual
function I got a very warm handshake. To do outpost duty in a place like that must have been
more interesting than pleasant, for at all times the sentries had to keep straining their eyes
in the darkness to see if a patrol of the enemy was coming to surprise them. On our return
we saw some shells falling to the right in the shadowy desolation of what was called Bully-beef
Wood.

On another occasion, I was coming out near Feuchy along the railway triangle when the Germans
dropped some gas shells in the cutting. Two of the men and I were talking together, and we
had just time to dive into Battalion Headquarters and pull down the gas blankets. We put on
our helmets, but not before we had got a dose of the poison. As I sat there with my throat
burning, I was filled with alarm lest I       (p. 270) should lose my voice and be unable in
the future to recite my poems. It was hard enough, as it was, to keep my friends long enough
to hear my verses, but I thought that if I had to spell them out in deaf-and-dumb language
no one would ever have patience to wait till the end. However, after a few days my throat got
better, and my friends were once again forced to lend me their ears.

The railway triangle was a well-known place, and any men who may have lived in some of the
dugouts along the banks are not likely to forget it. In the valley there was a large artificial
lake in which I had some of the most pleasant swims I have ever enjoyed, although the waters
were sometimes stirred up by the advent of a shell.

It was part of our strategy to let our men get the impression that we were going to stay in
the trenches before Arras for a long time. We had several raiding parties with a view to finding
out the position and strength of the enemy, and our C.C.S.'s were well equipped and looked
as if they were going to remain there forever. Our Corps Headquarters, too, were not far from
Etrun, and the concentration of Canadians in the neighbourhood gave us the impression that
we had found a more than temporary resting place. An American Chaplain was sent up to stay
with me for a visit in order to see what conditions were like at the front. He was a Lutheran,
although not of German extraction. I took him up to Arras one night, where we had dinner with
the engineers, and afterwards saw the 10th Battalion start off for the trenches. He was much
impressed with the spirit and appearance of the men. It was late when we got back to my quarters,
and to my surprise on the next morning an order came through that the American Chaplain had
to return immediately. Neither he nor I could understand it. I began to think he must have
got into some scrape, as no explanation was given. The real reason came out afterwards.

On August 1st our Division suddenly packed up and started once more for Le Cauroy. We knew
now that big things were in store for us and that the Canadian Corps were going to attack.
We heard rumours of the preparations the French and Americans had made in the South, and we
felt that at last the Allies were going to get the initiative into their hands. Whither we
were going, however, we did not know, but we all devoutly hoped that it would not be the Salient.
The secret of our destination was kept most profoundly. We were told that everything (p. 271)
depended upon our holding our tongues and exciting as little curiosity as possible among the
inhabitants. Once again, as before Vimy, but to even a greater extent, we felt the electric
thrill which kindles the imagination of an army going into battle. The rapid move which the
Canadian Corps now made was the most sporting thing we ever did, and it appealed strongly to
the hearts of young men who were keen on games and had been inured to a hardy life in Canada.
Swiftly and secretly the battalions entrained at various points and left for parts unknown.
I went in my side-car to the machine-gun headquarters at Liencourt, and on the next day to
the Curé's house at Le Cauroy. I found out from Headquarters that our Division was going south
within a day or so, but that I was not to tell the men. The brigades were billeted in the neighbouring
villages, but were soon to move. I was only one day at Le Cauroy, and on the 3rd of August,
after a rainy morning, started off in my side-car for Hornoy, a little village not far from
Amiens. We left Le Cauroy in the afternoon, and soon the sun came out making the freshly washed
country more beautiful than ever. It was very interesting finding our way by the map, and as
we neared our destination I met many friends in the other divisions who were stationed in the
villages through which we passed. By the time we reached Hornoy, the sun had set. My billet
was to be with the Curé. I went over to the neat white Presbytère which was approached by a
large gate leading into the garden. The old man came to meet me at the door of his house, and
put me through a lot of questions in what I thought was a needlessly gruff manner. I found
out afterwards that he was very kind, and that his gruffness was only assumed. He gave me a
room upstairs comfortably furnished, and invited me to come into his office whenever I pleased.
The church, which could be entered from the garden, was in good order, and parts of it were
very old. The day after we arrived at Hornoy was Sunday, August 4th. It was the fourth anniversary
of our declaration of war, and I had hoped to hold a big service for the men. Unfortunately,
we were all scattered and, as our hymn books did not turn up, having been confiscated as a
reprisal by some of the crown and anchor men, my plans were frustrated. In the afternoon I
went by side-car to Amiens and found the city looking very different from its appearance on
my last visit. The streets were absolutely deserted. Many of the houses had been damaged by
shells. The Cathedral roof itself had been     (p. 272) pierced in some places and the noble
interior looked very dreary, the floor of the nave being covered with bits of broken stone
and glass. It was sad to think that it might share the fate of Rheims. Some Canadians were
wandering about the streets rather disconsolately. The empty city gave one a terrible sense
of loneliness. On the following evening about midnight the 16th Battalion and the 3rd Battalion
of Engineers passed through Hornoy in trains, going forward.

Our own orders to move came two days later, on August 7th, and I left for St. Feuchien. I went
off in my side-car to the quaint old village. It is situated on the top of a low hill, and
consists of a few streets and some large buildings standing in their own grounds. One of these
was the country home of the Archbishop of Amiens, and this was to be our billet. I entered
the grounds by a broken-down gate and drew up in front of a large brick building, one wing
of which was a chapel and kept locked up. In front of the building was a well full of empty
tins and other refuse. The interior of the place had once been quite fine, but was now absolutely
filthy, having been used as billets. The billiard tables, however, could still be used. The
room assigned to me was on the ground floor at the back. The dirt on the floor was thick, and
a sofa and two red plush chairs were covered with dust. A bed in the corner did not look inviting,
and through the broken windows innumerable swarms of blue-bottle flies came from the rubbish
heaps in the yard. The weather was very hot and there was apparently no water for washing.
I made an inspection of the building upstairs, but all the rooms had been assigned to different
officers. The Archbishop's room was very large with a huge bed in it, but wore an air of soiled
magnificence.

Everybody was in a great rush and, although I did not know when our attack was to take place,
I felt that it might happen at any moment; and so, not worrying about my billet, I started
off in my side-car to see General Thacker at Château Longeau. I found, as I passed through
Boves and other villages, that the whole Canadian Corps was concentrated in the neighbourhood.
The dusty roads were crowded with lorries, tanks, whippets and limbers, besides numbers of
men. When I got to Château Longeau I found, to my surprise, that the General had gone to Battle
Headquarters in Gentelles Wood, and an officer whom I met on the road told me that zero hour
was on the following morning. I determined therefore not to return to the archiepiscopal palace
(p. 273) at St. Feuchien, but to go off to the attack. I returned to Boves, where, having washed
and shaved, I had dinner in a damaged house with some officers of a light trench mortar battery,
and after dinner started on my way to Gentelles Wood. It was a time of intense excitement.
Less than a week ago we had been in the line at Arras, and now we were about to make our great
attack at Amiens. The warm summer evening was well-advanced when I reached our Battle Headquarters
behind the wood. All the staff officers were so busy that to ask one a question was like putting
a spark to a powder magazine, so I kept out of their way and journeyed up the road to the barrier
beyond which no vehicle was allowed to pass. I said good-bye to Lyons and then started off
to find the trenches from which the 16th Battalion was going to lead the charge.

CHAPTER XXX.                                                       (p. 274)

THE BATTLE OF AMIENS.

August 8th to 16th, 1918.

It was strange and exhilarating to go off on an expedition of that kind in the cool air and
fading light of the evening. Something told us that at last the hour of victory was drawing
near. The moving of the Corps had been so splendidly conducted and the preparation had been
so secret that success seemed assured. This was an achievement which was completely different
from all our past experience. The only question was, had we taken the Germans by surprise,
or were they waiting with massed forces to resist our attack? As I left the outskirts of the
wood behind me, and made my way over the green plain, now fading into the twilight, I passed
a battalion of the 3rd Division manning a line of trenches. I had a talk with some of the men
and told them that I had heard from a tank officer that nearly one thousand tanks were to be
engaged in the attack on the following morning. Far over to the left, on a rise in the ground
I saw the remains of a village, and was told that a mud road across the fields would lead me
in the direction of the 1st Division front. I met as usual many men whom I knew, and finally
some officers of the 15th Battalion in a dugout. The light began to fade and I had difficulty
in seeing far ahead of me, but the track at last brought me to a sunken road which turned to
the right. Here on the hillside more men were waiting in dugouts, and I was directed to a quarry,
on the top of which I was to take a path that would lead me to a group of trees, where I should
find the Headquarters of the 16th Battalion. When I got to the quarry I found many roads there,
and whether it was that the information I had received was incorrect, or that I was more than
usually stupid, I do not know. I wandered up and down for a long time, tripping over bits of
wire and slipping into holes, before I was able to get to the top of the hill and look over
in the direction of the German lines. At last I found a track which had evidently been used
by men going up to the front. I went along it for a considerable distance and found myself
on what appeared to be a plateau, but as far as I could see, no object stood out against the
starry sky-line. Shells were falling in the fields to the left, and at different points on
the eastern     (p. 275) horizon the bright light of a German flare would tell us the position
of the enemy's lines. I went on for some distance, straining my eyes in the darkness to see
if I could discover any trees. I thought I had lost my way again. Suddenly the dim figure of
a man approached, and when he came up to me, I found he belonged to one of the Imperial Battalions
from whom we were taking over the line. He asked me the way to the quarry, and I was able to
tell him. Then he gave me the direction I had to take to reach my destination. I resumed my
walk along the narrow path and at last, to my great delight, I saw a black object in the distance.
When I came up to it I found it was the group of trees for which I had been looking. The trees
were growing out of a curious round hole in the ground. Here, a signaller of the 16th Battalion
happened to turn up and acted as my guide. He led me down a path to the bottom of the hole
where were several dugouts. In one of these I found more men of the Battalion. They were intensely
keen over the prospect of a great victory on the morrow. I was told that the battalion and
the companies which were going over in the first wave were in advanced trenches to the left.
So, after bidding the men good-bye and good luck, I started off. At last I reached the trench,
and getting down into it found the Headquarters of the Battalion had arrived there not long
before. On asking where the Colonel was, I was taken to a place where a piece of canvas hung
down the side of the trench. When this was lifted, I looked down into a little hole in the
ground and there saw the C.O., the Adjutant and another officer studying a map by the light
of a candle. The place was so tiny that I had to crawl in backwards, and finding that there
was no room for a visitor, I soon took my departure. The Colonel ordered me to stay in the
trench, but I had made up my mind to go forward and see the companies which were going over
in the first wave. They lay along the side of a road some distance down the slope in front
of us. In making my way there I passed a trench where the 5th Battalion was waiting to follow
up the advance. A German machine-gun was playing freely upon the spot, but no one got hit.
When I came to the advanced companies of the 16th Battalion, I passed along their line and
gave them my blessing. It was splendid to meet and shake hands with those gallant lads, so
soon to make the attack. They were in high spirits in spite of the seriousness of their enterprise.

The barrage was to start at 4.20, so I left them about 4.10 to go  (p. 276) back to Battalion
Headquarters in the trench, as I intended to follow up the advance with the stretcher-bearers.
On my way back I met the Colonel, his orderly, and his piper, who a few minutes later was killed
in the attack. I shook hands with them, and the Colonel said, "Now, Canon, if anything happens
to me don't make any fuss over me; just say a few words over me in a shell-hole." I said, "You
will come out all right, Colonel, there will be no shell-hole for you." Then, as my senior
officer, he ordered me back to the trench. I told him I would go over the top with him if he
wanted me to do so, but he would not hear of it. When I got to the trenches only a few minutes
remained till the barrage was to start. I climbed up on the parapet and waited, looking off
into the darkness. It was a wonderful moment. When the German flare-lights went up we could
see that there was a wood on the other side of the valley in front of us, and its outline began
to grow more distinct against the grey of the morning sky. I could see to right and left a
great stretch of country sloping gradually into the darkness. Shells still fell behind our
lines at intervals. Our own guns were perfectly silent. What did the enemy's quietness portend?
Were the Germans aware of our contemplated assault? Were they lying in full strength like a
crouching lion ready to burst upon us in fury at the first warning of our approach? Had all
our precautions been in vain? Or were we on the eve of a victory which was going to shatter
the iron dominion of the feudal monster? This was one of those magnificent moments in the war
which filled the soul with a strange and wild delight. For months we had been preparing for
this event, and now it was upon us. The sky was growing lighter, and the constellation of the
Pleiades was beginning to fade in the sky above the outline of the distant trees. I looked
at my watch. Nearer and nearer the hands crept to zero hour, but they move slowly at such times.
Then at 4.20 the long barrage burst in all its fury. The hissing rain of shells through the
air on a twenty mile front made a continuous accompaniment to the savage roar of the thousands
of guns along the line. Those guns sent their wild music round the globe, and sounded that
note of victory which only ceased when the bells of the churches in all the civilized world
rang out their joyful peals at the signing of the Armistice.

Up went the German rockets and coloured lights calling for help,   (p. 277) and ever and anon
a red glow in the sky told us that we had blown up an ammunition dump. The noise was earth-shaking,
and was even more exhilarating than that of the barrage at Vimy. I was so carried away by my
feelings that I could not help shouting out, "Glory be to God for this barrage!" The German
reply came, but, to our delight, it was feeble, and we knew we had taken them by surprise and
the day was ours.

A strange sound behind us made us look around, and we saw the advancing tanks creeping down
the slope like huge grey beetles. Our men were just in time to divert the course of one which
threatened to cut our telephone wires. Then the 5th Battalion got out of their trenches, and
the stretcher-bearers and I went off with them down the slope. The wood through which the German
lines ran was called Hangard Wood and lay on the opposite side of the valley. Here and there
lying in the ripe grain which covered the fields were bodies of the wounded and dead of the
13th and 16th Battalions. The stretcher-bearers set to work to carry off those who had been
hit. A sergeant followed me and we skirted the wood looking for wounded, while he was able
to become possessor of a machine-gun and several German revolvers. The wheat had been trampled
down by the men in their charge, but was still high enough in places to conceal a prostrate
form. By this time the attack had passed through the wood and the enemy were running before
it. The German artillery now concentrated their fire on the valley, which soon, in the still
morning air, became thick with smoke. It was impossible to see more than a few yards in front
of one. We heard the crash of shells around us, but could not see where they burst. The sun
had not risen and we soon lost our way in the mist. We could not tell from the direction of
the sound which was the German barrage and which was ours.

I was going on ahead when I came to a large shell-hole that had been made in some previous
battle. At the bottom of it lay three apparently dead Huns. I was looking down at them wondering
how they had been killed, as they were not messed about. I thought that they must have died
of shell-shock, until one of them moved his hand. At once I shouted, "Kamarad", and to my intense
amusement the three men lying on their backs put up their hands and said, "Kamarad! mercy!
mercy!" It was most humorous to think that three human beings should appeal to me to spare
their lives. I told them in my best French to get up and follow me, and I called out to the
sergeant, "Sergeant, I have got (p. 278) three prisoners." My desire to take a prisoner had
been a standing joke among our men. Whenever they were going into action I used to offer them
$25.00 to bring out a little German whom I might capture all by myself. I used to tell them
not to bring out a big one, as it might look boastful for a chaplain. Here were three ready
to hand for which I had to pay nothing. We moved on through the smoke, a most comical procession.
The sergeant went ahead and I brought up the rear. Between us went the three terror-stricken
prisoners, crouching every now and then when shells fell near us. At last we stumbled on a
company of the 2nd Battalion coming forward, and I called out to them, "Boys, I got seventy-five
dollars worth of Huns in one shell-hole." Our gallant Canadians at once took the three unfortunate
men, who looked as if they expected to have their throats cut, and having relieved them of
the contents of their pockets and removed their buttons and shoulder-straps, gave me one of
the latter as a souvenir.

When the prisoners were disposed of and sent back with others under escort, I started forward
again and seeing a tank coming down the hill got on it and so went back into the battle. We
passed quite easily over some wide trenches, then when the machine came to a stop I got off
and made my way to the end of the valley and climbed to the higher ground beyond. There I found
myself in a wide expanse of country covered by yellow grain and rolling off in hills to the
distance. Here and there I met wounded men walking back, and many German prisoners. In the
fields in different directions I could see rifles stuck, bayonet downwards, in the ground,
which showed that there lay wounded men. I found that these were chiefly Germans, and all of
them had received hideous wounds and were clamouring for water. Poor men, I was sorry for them,
for I knew it would be long before they could be carried out or receive medical attention,
owing to the rapidity of our advance. I made my way to each in turn and gave him a drink from
some of the water bottles which I carried round my belt. I think all the Germans I saw that
morning were dying, having been wounded in the stomach. After attending, as far as it was possible,
to their bodily needs, I endeavoured to minister to their spiritual. As they happened to be
Roman Catholics, I took off the crucifix which I wore round my neck and gave it to them. They
would put up their trembling hands and clasp it lovingly, and kiss it, while I began the Lord's
Prayer    (p. 279) in German. This happened many times that day. One man who had a hideous
wound in the abdomen was most grateful, and when he handed me back the crucifix he took my
hand and kissed it. It was strange to think that an hour before, had we met, we should have
been deadly enemies. At a crossroad further on the Germans must have concentrated their fire
when our men advanced, for many dead and wounded were lying about.

The sun was now high in the heavens and it became very hot, but the autumn fields looked beautiful,
and, as there were no hedges or fences, the low rolling hills gave one the sense of great expanse,
and were an ideal ground for a battle on a large scale. While I was looking after the wounded
I heard the cheering of the 16th Battalion who had reached their objective and were settling
down to rest and to have some food. I made my way to them and found the Colonel in high glee
over what his men had done. It had been a splendid routing of the enemy. The Battalions of
the 1st and 2nd Brigades followed up the attack and were now moving forward, so I followed
after them. It was a delightful feeling to be walking through the golden harvest fields with
the blue sky overhead, and to know that we were advancing into the enemy's land. It seemed
as if by our own labours we had suddenly become possessed of a vast property and that everything
we found was lawfully ours. It is no doubt that feeling which fills men with the desire to
loot in a conquered country.

I had a magnificent view from the hill of the British Cavalry going into action. Thousands
of little horses in the distance on the vast plain were galloping in a long line across the
yellow fields, which reminded one of the great battles of old, when mounted men, and not machine-guns
and gas-shells, were the determining factor. The store of water that I had brought with me
was now exhausted, but I was able to get a fresh supply from the water-bottle of a dead man.
The road that leads from Gentelles to Caix winds through the valley to the right of the line
of our attack and follows a little stream. It is very narrow, and on that day was so crowded
with cavalry, ambulances and artillery moving forward that every now and then it would become
blocked. In a mill, which the Germans had used partly as artillery headquarters and partly
as a depot for military stores, our men found a quantity of blankets, coats and other useful
articles. Our doctors established an aid-post in the out-buildings, and made use of the materials
which the enemy had left behind in his flight. A section of our machine-gunners    (p. 280)
was resting there, and it was a great refreshment to stop for a while and have a good clean-up
and a shave with a borrowed razor. We were so parched with thirst that we drank out of the
stream, in spite of the fact that many shells had fallen into it. Our final objective was still
some miles away, so I started up the road, following after the 1st Brigade.

The Germans, finding the game was up, had left many guns behind them and blown up a large quantity
of ammunition. One great heap of it lay beside the river. Very pretty hamlets lay along the
valley; we passed one called Ignacourt, where there was a damaged church. We afterwards established
an ambulance there. I was very tired with my long walk, not having had any sleep the night
before, so was glad to get a lift on an ambulance and go forward in the afternoon to the village
of Caix, which was the final objective of the 2nd Brigade. One of our ambulances had taken
over a building in the Square, but was shelled out of it that night. The 10th Battalion had
gone forward and taken possession of trenches beyond the village. I went out to them and there
found the men in high spirits over the way the battle had gone. The old red patch Division
had advanced 14,000 yards, and so had beaten the record of any division, British or enemy,
during the War. It was now late in the afternoon and no further attack that day was contemplated.
Before us on a slight rise in the ground lay the village of Rosières, through which the road
ran parallel to the trenches which we held. Between us and the village was a slight dip in
the ground, and with glasses we could see lorries full of fresh German troops, amid clouds
of dust, making their way to a point in the village. There they would stop and the men would
get out and hurry down the fields into the trenches. It looked as if they were going to make
a counter-attack. The situation was very disquieting. I was told by one of the sergeants in
our front line that we were in need of fresh ammunition, and he asked me if I would let the
Colonel know. I passed through the trenches on my return and told the men how glorious it was
to think that we had pushed the Germans back and were now so many miles from where we had started.
I went back to Battalion Headquarters and found that they were in a cottage on the eastern
extremity of the village. Across the road was a cavalry observation-post, where some officers
were watching Rosières and the arrival of German troops.  (p. 281) Luckily for us the Germans
had no guns to turn upon us, although the village of Caix was shelled constantly all night.
Later on, some batteries of the Royal Horse Artillery and our field guns, which had come up,
sealed the fate of the Germans and prevented a counter-attack. A glorious sunset over the newly
conquered territory made a fitting close to a day of great deeds and high significance. When
darkness fell and the stars looked out of the quiet sky, I said good-night to my cavalry friends,
whose billets were down in a hollow to the right, and started off to find some place to sleep.

The cellars of the cottage occupied by the Colonel were crowded, so I went to the village and
seeing some men entering a gateway followed them. It was the courtyard of a large building,
presumably a brewery. The runners of the battalion had found a deep cellar where they had taken
up their abode. I asked if I might sleep with them for the night. The cellar was not particularly
inviting, but it was well below the ground and vaulted in brick. The floor was simply earth
and very damp. Two candles were burning in a box where a corporal was making out the ration-list
for the men. I got two empty sandbags to put on the floor to keep me from getting rheumatism,
and lying on them and using my steel helmet as a pillow I prepared to sleep. The runners, except
those on duty, did the same. Our feet met in the centre of the room and our bodies branched
off like the spokes of a wheel. When anyone turned and put his feet on one side we all had
to turn and put our feet in the same direction. We heard a good many shells bursting in the
Square that night, but we were safe and comparatively comfortable. Before I got to sleep, I
watched with great admiration the two young non-coms who were sitting at the table arranging
and discussing in a low tone the duties of the various men for the following day. The two lads
could not have been more than twenty years of age, but their sense of responsibility and justice
was well-developed. I thought what a fine thing it was that men were being trained like that
to become useful citizens of Canada. We were up early in the morning and I made my way to Battalion
Headquarters, where I heard that there was to be another attack in the forenoon.

We were now to change places with the 2nd Division. They were to shift from our right flank
to our left and take over the attack on       (p. 282) Rosières while we advanced towards Warvillers.
From the cavalry observation-post, I could see with a glass the 5th Battalion going up to the
front in single file along a hedge. I had breakfast with the 7th Battalion officers in their
dugout by the roadside near the cavalry billets, and then started off to join the 8th Battalion
which was going to attack that morning. Machine-guns from Rosières were playing on the road
near the end of the wood. I determined therefore not to go round the wood but through it and
so reached the other side in safety. I was sitting on a fallen tree eating some lunch and wondering
whether I should be able to get up in time for the attack, when, to my great joy, over the
hill to my right, I saw some troops approaching in extended order. Hardly had they appeared
on the crest when the Germans at Rosières opened fire upon them and shells fell on the hill.
The men kept very steady and nobody, as far as I could see, was hit. When they got down to
the wood I went forward and spoke to them and found they were the 22nd Battalion, and I met
several Quebecers whom I knew.

I saw the Battalion go off in the direction of Rosières and I renewed my journey to our own
line. I passed the 24th Battalion who were going up on the left of the 22nd, and they told
me that the 2nd Brigade were on their right. There were many trenches along the way which the
Germans had abandoned on the previous day. I passed a poor horse which was badly wounded and
still alive. It was attached to a broken German cart. I got one of our men to shoot the animal,
and went on till I came to a railway in the hollow and followed it. There were many wooden
buildings here and there which had been built by the Germans. These structures had been badly
knocked about by shrapnel, and the litter of articles within showed how rapid the German flight
had been. At a little distance on the east side of the track, there was a green wood, which
was called, as I afterwards found out, Beaufort or Hatchet Wood. Every now and then as I walked,
little puffs of dust would rise from the road in front of me, showing that machine-gun bullets
were falling about. A cavalry patrol of three men, returning down the track from the direction
of the wood, came towards me, and, taking me for a combatant officer, the corporal saluted
and said, "That wood is very heavily held by machine-guns, Sir, we have just made a reconnaissance."
"That's all right," I said, "I do not intend to take it just yet." I was going up the track,
wondering where I had got to, when I saw   (p. 283) a young officer of the 8th Battalion, followed
by his men, coming towards me. I went to him and told him that I had heard the wood was very
heavily held by machine-guns. He said he knew it and was going to attack from the side, so
I went with them and, as they lay on the ground and got their Lewis guns in position, I pronounced
the benediction over them and then continued my journey up the railroad. On the west side of
the track at the top of the bank was a hedge. Here I found the 14th Battalion waiting to follow
up the 8th. A young officer of the latter battalion was lying on the ground dying. He dictated
a farewell letter to his wife, which I afterwards gave to the Adjutant. On the slope of ground
down which the 8th had charged towards the railway I saw many bodies of dead and wounded men,
so I went up to them to see what I could do. Several were dying, and I found one poor fellow
who had never been baptised; so I took some water from my bottle and baptised him as he lay
there. They would be carried off when the stretcher-bearers could begin their work.

While I was attending to the wounded, I looked towards the wood at the other side of the track.
I was on a higher level, and so had a view of the open country beyond, and there, to my astonishment,
I saw the Germans leaving their ambush and running away. I hurried down the hill to the hedge
and shouted out to the 14th Battalion that the Germans were running away, and an officer came
up to make sure. Then orders were given to the men to charge and they crossed the track and
took possession of the wood. As soon as I had seen the wounded carried off I followed after
the troops, and there once more had the joy of advancing over newly-won territory.

At a farmhouse a number of our men were gathered for a temporary rest, and there I learned
that the colonel of the 8th Battalion and a large number of officers and men had been killed
that morning. The battalion had to charge down the hill in the face of heavy machine-gun fire.
Some tanks were standing by the farm and one of the officers offered to take me with him in
the machine, but as it was to go into the 2nd Divisional area I had to decline the invitation
and follow up our men on foot. I passed a number of German wounded. One of them, a young lad,
was terribly alarmed when he saw me approaching, thinking I was going to murder him. He held
up his hands and shouted, "Kamarad!" I think the Germans had heard wild stories of the ferocity
of        (p. 284) Canadians. The boy then began to implore me to send him to an ambulance.
He was wounded in the leg, and had bound up his wounds very neatly and skilfully. I tried to
make him understand that the stretcher-bearers would come up in time, and I stuck his rifle
in the ground with his helmet on the top of it, as a signal to the bearer party.

Before me at the end of the road, I saw amid trees the village of Warvillers. Many men were
going towards it from all directions; and I saw our artillery brigades taking up battery positions
to the left. I met two men of the 5th Battalion and we started off to the village together.
The place was now in our hands, as the Germans had evacuated it some hours before. The houses
were quite intact and offered prospects of pleasant billets. My companions and I, finding it
was quite late in the afternoon, determined to go and have our meal in a garden near the Château.
We sat down on the grass and opened our bully-beef tins, and seeing onions growing in the garden
thought it would be a good thing to have that savoury vegetable as a relish. It added to the
enjoyment of our simple meal to think that we were eating something which the Germans had intended
for themselves. We managed to get some fresh water too from a well nearby, which looked quite
clean. On the other side of a wall we could see the roof of the Château. One of the men thought
he would like to go and explore and find out who was there. He came back a few minutes afterwards
and said it was full of Germans. So, taking their rifles, the two men went off to attack it,
thinking they had found a stronghold of the enemy. I was just having a smoke after my meal
when the lads came back and said that the Germans whom they had seen were our prisoners and
that the Château had been taken over by us as a dressing station. We made our way to it and
found that it was a very beautiful place situated in lovely grounds. A card on a door upstairs
bore the inscription, "His Excellency General," and then followed a German name. The place
had been the headquarters of some enemy corps or division on the previous day. At the back
of the Château was a very strong concrete dugout divided off into rooms, which were soon filled
by our officers and men. All that night the wounded were being brought to the Château, and
German prisoners also found their way there. Nobody was paying much attention to the latter,
and, thinking it was unwise to let them wander about, and perhaps go back to their lines with
information about our location, with      (p. 285) the permission of the C.O. of the ambulance,
who was up to his eyes in work, I had them all put into one large room over which I placed
a guard. They were sent back to the corps cage in the morning. The Germans evidently expected
that we would use the Château because they dropped some heavy shells in the garden during the
night, and we had to get the wounded down in to the cellars in quick time.

I had about three hours sleep that night, and in the morning I determined to follow up our
men of the 1st Brigade who had now established themselves at a village ahead of us called Rouvroy.
As I was starting off, a signaller came up to me and told me he had captured a stray horse
with a saddle on it and that he would lend it to me to take me to my destination. I mounted
the animal and went down the avenue in great pride and comfort, but after I got into the road
a man came up and stopped me and told me, to my horror, that I was riding his horse which he
had lost the night before. It requires great strength of mind and self-mastery to give up a
mount to a pedestrian when you are once in the saddle. But the war had not entirely extinguished
the light of conscience in my soul, so, tired as I was, I dismounted and gave up the steed.
But as I saw the man ride back to the Château I began to wonder within myself whether he was
the real owner or not. One thief does not like to be out-witted by another. However, there
was nothing to do now but to go straight ahead. The road before me led directly to Rouvroy.
Some German planes were hovering overhead, and in the fields to my left our artillery were
going into action. As shells were dropping on the road I took a short cut over the fields.
Here I found some of our machine-gunners, and the body of a poor fellow who had just been killed.
I got to the village of Rouvroy about noon and made my way to a dugout under the main road,
where the colonel and some of the officers of the 3rd Battalion were having lunch. They gave
me a cup of tea, but I told them I had taken my food on the journey, so did not want anything
to eat. They looked much relieved at this, because rations were short. Their chaplain was there
and gave me a warm reception. I was feeling rather used up, so lay down on a wire mattress
and had an hour's sleep. When lunch was over the chaplain and I went to see the sights of the
town. The ruined church was being used for a dressing station and it seemed to me it was rather
a dangerous place, as the Germans would be     (p. 286) likely to shell it. We found an old
bookshop which was filled with German literature and writing paper, some of which proved very
useful.

We had a good rest in a dugout, but I felt so seedy that I told him, if he heard that I had
gone out of the line, not to think it was because I was suffering from "cold feet". We went
back to the village, and there we found shells dropping in the main street not far from the
church. In fact, one came so close that we had to dive into a cellar and wait till the "straffing"
was over. Then I bid my companion good-bye and started off over the fields back to Warvillers.
By this time I felt so unwell that it was hard to resist the temptation to crawl into some
little hole in which I might die quietly. However, with my usual luck, I found a motor car
waiting near the road for an air-officer who had gone off on a tour of inspection and was expected
to return soon. The driver said I could get in and rest. When the officer came back he kindly
consented to give me a ride to my Divisional Headquarters. We did not know where they were
and I landed in the wrong place, but finally with the assistance of another car I made my way
to Beaufort. There I found our Division had established themselves in huts and dugouts at the
back of an ancient chateau. With great difficulty I made my way over to General Thacker's mess
and asked for some dinner.

During the meal, the General sent off his A.D.C. on a message, and he soon returned with no
less a person than the A.D.M.S., who, to my dismay, proceeded to feel my pulse and put a clinical
thermometer in my mouth. My temperature being 103-1/2, he ordered me at once to go off to a
rest camp, under threat of all sorts of penalties if I did not. I lay on the floor of his office
till three in the morning, when an ambulance arrived and took me off to some place in a field,
where they were collecting casualties. From thence I was despatched to the large asylum at
Amiens which was operated by an Imperial C.C.S. The major who examined me ordered me to go
to the Base by the next train, as they had no time to attend to cases of influenza. For a while
I was left on the stretcher in a ward among wounded heroes. I felt myself out of place, but
could do nothing to mend matters. Two sisters came over to me, and apparently took great interest
in me till one of them looked at the tag which was pinned on my shoulder. With a look of disgust
she turned and said to her companion, "He isn't wounded at all, he has only got the 'flu'".
At once they lost all interest    (p. 287) in me, and went off leaving me to my fate. Stung
by this humiliation, I called two orderlies and asked them to carry me out into the garden
and hide me under the bushes. This they did, and there I found many friends who had been wounded
lying about the place. My batman had come with me and had brought my kit, so a box of good
cigars which I handed round was most acceptable to the poor chaps who were waiting to be sent
off. By a stroke of good luck, an accident on the railway prevented my being evacuated that
evening. I knew that if they once got me down to the Base my war days would be over.

On the following morning, feeling better, I got up, shaved, put on my best tunic, and, with
a cigar in my mouth, wandered into the reception room, where I found the major who had ordered
me off on the previous day. Puffing the smoke in front of my face to conceal my paleness, I
asked him when he was going to send me down to the Base. He looked a little surprised at finding
me recovered, and then said, "Well, Padré, I think I will let you go back to your lines after
all." It was a great relief to me. The chaplain of the hospital very kindly took me in charge
and allowed me to spend the night in his room. The next day I got a ride in a Canadian ambulance
and made my way back to Beaufort. There, to my horror, I found that the Division, thinking
they had got rid of me for good, had appointed another padré in my place. Through the glass
door of my room, I could see him giving instructions to the chaplain of the artillery. I felt
like Enoch Arden, but I had not Enoch's unselfishness so, throwing the door wide open, I strode
into the room, and to the ill-concealed consternation of both my friends who had looked upon
me in a military sense as dead, informed them that I had come back to take over my duties.
Of course, everyone said they were glad to see me, except General Thacker, who remarked dryly
that my return had upset all the cherished plans of well-ordered minds. The A.D.M.S. had told
them that he had thought I was in for an attack of pneumonia. It was really a very amusing
situation, but I was determined to avoid the Base, especially now that we felt the great and
glorious end of our long campaign was coming nearer every day.

CHAPTER XXXI.                                                      (p. 288)

WE RETURN TO ARRAS.

August, 1918.

On Friday the 16th of August our Division left Beaufort and moved back to billets at Le Quesnel.
Here there was a good sized chateau which was at once used for office purposes. The General
and his staff made their billets in a deep cave which was entered from the road. It was of
considerable extent, lit by electric light, and rooms opened out on both sides of the central
passage. I had one assigned to me, but as I did not feel well enough to stand the dampness
I gave it to the clerks of the A.D.M.S., and made my home with the veterinary officer in the
cellar of the school-house which stood beside the church. The latter, which had been used by
the Germans as a C.C.S., was a modern building and of good proportions. The spire had been
used as an observation-post. One or two shells had hit the building and the interior, though
still intact, was in great disorder. The altar ornaments, vestments, and prayer books were
thrown about in confusion. The school-house where I was lodged must have been also the Curé's
residence. A good-sized room downstairs served as a chapel for my Sunday services. The cellar,
where the A.D.V.S. and I slept was quite comfortable, though by no means shell-proof. As the
only alternative abode was the cave, he and I, deciding we would rather die of a shell than
of rheumatism, chose the cellar. The Corps ambulances were all together in a valley not far
away, and in trenches to the east, near the cemetery where the 8th Battalion officers and men
had been buried, there were some reserves of the 3rd Brigade.

Things were quiet now in the front line, so I determined to make a trip to Albert to see my
son's grave. It was a long and dusty journey and the roads were rough. We passed back through
the district over which we had advanced, and saw everywhere gruesome traces of the fighting.
When we came to Albert, however, we found it was still in the possession of the enemy. The
Americans were holding the line, and an American sentry stopped us at a barrier in the road
and said that no motorcycles were allowed to go any further in that direction.   (p. 289) It
was strange to hear the American accent again, and I told the lad that we were Canadians. "Well",
he said, with a drawl, "that's good enough for me." We shook hands and had a short talk about
the peaceful continent that lay across the ocean. There was nothing for us to do then but to
return.

On the following Sunday, the Germans having evacuated Albert a day and a half before, I once
more paid a visit to the old town. I left my side-car on the outskirts of the place and was
taken by Mr. Bean, the Australian War Correspondent, into his car. He was going up to take
some photographs. The day was intensely hot, and the dust of the now ruined town was literally
ankle-deep and so finely powdered that it splattered when one walked as though it had been
water. I saw the ruins of the school-house which our ambulances had used, and noticed that
the image of the Virgin had been knocked down from the tower of the Cathedral. I passed the
house where our Headquarters had been. The building was still standing but the front wall had
gone, leaving the interior exposed. I made my way up the Bapaume road to Tara Hill, and there
to my great delight I found the little cemetery still intact. Shells had fallen in it and some
of the crosses had been broken, but the place had been wonderfully preserved. A battery on
one side of it had just ceased firing and was to advance on the following day. While I was
putting up some of the crosses that had fallen, Mr. Bean came up in his car and kindly took
a photograph of my son's grave. He also took a photograph of the large Australian cross which
stands at one corner of the cemetery. Tara Hill had been for six months between the German
front and reserve lines, and I never expected that any trace of the cemetery would have been
found. I shall probably never see the place again, but it stands out in my memory now as clear
and distinct as though once more I stood above the dusty road and saw before me the rows of
little crosses, and behind them the waste land battered by war and burnt beneath the hot August
sun. Over that very ground my son and I had ridden together, and within a stone's throw from
it two years before we had said good-bye to one another for the last time.

Our Division had now come out of the line and were hurrying north. On August 26th Lyons and
I started off in the car, and after a tedious and dusty journey, enlivened by several break-downs,
arrived       (p. 290) in Arras very late at night and found a billet with the Engineers in
the Place de la Croix. Once more our men were scattered about the old city and its environs
as if we had never left it. Our Battle Headquarters were in the forward area and rear Headquarters
in a large house in Rue du Pasteur. It was a picturesque abode. The building itself was modern,
but it was erected on what had been an old Augustinian Monastery of the 11th century. Underneath
the house there was a large vaulted hall with pillars in it which reminded one of the cloisters
of Westminster Abbey. It was below the level of the ground and was lit by narrow windows opening
on the street. It was a most interesting place and had been decorated with heraldic designs
painted on canvas shields by a British Division that had once made its headquarters there.
We used the hall as our mess and from it passages led to several vault-like chambers and to
cellars at the back, one of which was my bedroom. A flight of steps led down to stone chambers
below these and then down a long sloping passage to a broken wall which barred the entrance
into the mysterious caves beneath the city. The exhalations which came up to my bedroom from
these subterranean passages were not as fresh or wholesome as one could have wished, but, as
it was a choice between foul air and running the chance of being shelled, I naturally chose
the former.

We moved into this billet in the evening, and early the following morning I was lying awake,
thinking of all the strange places I had lived in during the war, when close by I heard a fearful
crash. I waited for a moment, and then, hearing the sound of voices calling for help, I rushed
up in my pyjamas and found that a huge shell had struck a house three doors away, crushing
it in and killing and wounding some of our Headquarters staff. Though Arras was then continually
being shelled, some of the inhabitants remained. Opposite our house was a convent, and in cellars
below the ground several nuns lived all through the war. They absolutely refused to leave their
home in spite of the fact that the upper part of the building had been ruined by shells. Our
nearness to the railway station, which was a favourite target for the German guns, made our
home always a precarious one.

One day the Paymaster was going into our Headquarters, when a shell burst in the Square and
some fragments landed in our street taking off the fingers of his right hand. I was away at
the time, but when I returned in the evening the signallers showed me a lonely          (p.
291) forefinger resting on a window sill. They had reverently preserved it, as it was the finger
which used to count out five-franc notes to them when they were going on leave.

Our Corps dressing-station was in the big Asylum in Arras. The nuns still occupied part of
the building. The Mother Superior was a fine old lady, intensely loyal to France and very kind
to all of us. When the Germans occupied Arras in the beginning of the war, the Crown Prince
paid an official visit to the Asylum, and, when leaving, congratulated the Mother Superior
on her management of the institution. She took his praises with becoming dignity, but when
he held out his hand to her she excused herself from taking it and put hers behind her back.

The dressing-station was excellently run and the system carried out was perfect. The wounded
were brought in, attended to, and sent off to the C.C.S. with the least possible delay. The
dead were buried in the large military cemetery near the Dainville road where rest the bodies
of many noble comrades, both British and Canadian. A ward was set apart for wounded Germans
and it was looked after by their own doctors and orderlies.

Meanwhile our Division was preparing for the great attack upon the Drocourt-Quéant line. The
2nd Division were in the trenches and had taken Monchy. We were to relieve them and push on
to the Canal du Nord and, if possible, beyond it. Movements were now very rapid. All the staff
were kept intensely busy. The old days of St. Jans Cappel and Ploegsteert, with their quiet
country life, seemed very far away. This was real war, and we were advancing daily. We heard
too of the victories of the French and Americans to the South. It was glorious to think that
after the bitter experience of the previous March the tables had been turned, and we had got
the initiative once more. Our Battle Headquarters, where the General and his staff were, lay
beyond Neuville Vitasse. They were in a deep, wide trench, on each side of which were dugouts
and little huts well sandbagged. Over the top was spread a quantity of camouflage netting,
so that the place was invisible to German aeroplanes. The country round about was cut up by
trenches, and in many of these our battalions were stationed. All the villages in the neighbourhood
were hopeless ruins. I tried to get a billet in the forward area, as Arras was so far back,
but every available place was crowded and it was so difficult to get up rations that nobody
was anxious to have me.

CHAPTER XXXII.                                                     (p. 292)

THE SMASHING OF THE DROCOURT-QUÉANT LINE.

September 2nd, 1918.

On Saturday, August 31st, I paid a visit to our Battle Headquarters, and the General asked
me to have a Celebration of the Holy Communion there the next morning at eight. I knew that
the attack was almost due, so I prepared for it and took my iron rations with me. We had the
Communion Service in a tent at the General's Headquarters. There were only three present, but
the General was one of them. I had breakfast in a quaint little hut in the side of the trench,
and then started off to the forward area. The great stretch of country was burnt dry by the
summer heat and the roads were broken up and dusty. I was taken by car to the Headquarters
of the 2nd Brigade which were in a trench, and from thence I started on foot to Cherisy. Here
the 8th Battalion were quartered, the 5th being in the line. Zero hour, I was told, was early
the next morning. The 2nd and 3rd Brigades were to make the attack. The 5th Battalion was to
have advanced that day and taken possession of a certain trench which was to be the jumping
off line on the following morning. I heard that they had had a hard time. They had driven out
the Germans, but had been seriously counter-attacked and had lost a large number of men. I
determined therefore to go out and take them some cigarettes and biscuits which the Y.M.C.A.
generously provided. I started off in the afternoon to go to the front line, wherever it might
be. I went down the road from Cherisy past the chalk-pit, where we had a little cemetery, and
then turning into the fields on the left walked in the direction in which I was told the 5th
Battalion lay. It was a long, hot journey, and as I had not quite recovered from my attack
of influenza I found it very fatiguing. On all sides I saw gruesome traces of the recent fighting.
I came across the body of a young artillery officer of the 2nd Division, but, as all his papers
had been taken away, I could not discover his name. My way passed through the remains of what
had been an enemy camp. There were a number of well-built huts there, containing much German
war-material, but they had been damaged by our shells. The Germans had           (p. 293) evidently
been obliged to get out of the place as quickly as possible. I was just leaving the camp when
I met several of our men bringing up a number of prisoners. While we were talking, some shells
fell, and we all had to dive into two trenches. The Huns took one; we Canadians took the other.
We had no desire, in case a shell landed in our midst to have our bits mingled with those of
the Germans. When the "straffing" was over, the others went back, and I continued my way to
the front. It must have been about six or seven o'clock when I arrived at the 5th Battalion
Headquarters, which were in a deep German dugout. The Colonel was absent at a conference, so
the Adjutant was in command. I told him that I had come provided with cigarettes and other
comforts for the men, and asked him to give me a runner to take me to the front line. He absolutely
refused to do anything of the kind, as he told me he did not know where it was himself. The
situation was most obscure. Our men had attacked and had been driven back and then they had
attacked again, but he thought they were now in shell holes and would be hard to find. In fact,
he was most anxious about the condition of affairs and was hoping the Colonel would soon return.
I asked him if he would like me to spend the night there. He said he would, so I determined
to settle down and wait for an opportunity of getting up to the men.

