A BOOK FOR ALL READERS

DESIGNED AS AN AID TO THE

COLLECTION, USE, AND PRESERVATION

OF BOOKS

AND THE

FORMATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES

BY

AINSWORTH RAND SPOFFORD

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS NEW YORK & LONDON 1900

COPYRIGHT 1900

BY

A R SPOFFORD

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Chapter                                               Page
 1. THE CHOICE OF BOOKS,                                 3
 2. BOOK BUYING,                                        33
 3. THE ART OF BOOK BINDING,                            50
 4. PREPARATION FOR THE SHELVES: BOOK PLATES, &C.,      88
 5. THE ENEMIES OF BOOKS,                              101
 6. RESTORATION AND RECLAMATION OF BOOKS,              119
 7. PAMPHLET LITERATURE,                               145
 8. PERIODICAL LITERATURE,                             157
 9. THE ART OF READING,                                171
10. AIDS TO READERS,                                   190
11. ACCESS TO LIBRARY SHELVES,                         215
12. THE FACULTY OF MEMORY,                             226
13. QUALIFICATIONS OF LIBRARIANS,                      242
14. SOME OF THE USES OF LIBRARIES,                     275
15. THE HISTORY OF LIBRARIES,                          287
16. LIBRARY BUILDINGS AND FURNISHINGS,                 321
17. LIBRARY MANAGERS OR TRUSTEES,                      333
18. LIBRARY REGULATIONS,                               341
19. LIBRARY REPORTS AND ADVERTISING,                   349
20. THE FORMATION OF LIBRARIES,                        357
21. CLASSIFICATION,                                    362
22. CATALOGUES,                                        373
23. COPYRIGHT AND LIBRARIES,                           400
24. POETRY OF THE LIBRARY,                             417
25. HUMORS OF THE LIBRARY,                             430
26. RARE BOOKS,                                        444
27. BIBLIOGRAPHY,                                      459
    INDEX,                                             501

A BOOK FOR ALL READERS

CHAPTER 1.

THE CHOICE OF BOOKS.

When we survey the really illimitable field of human knowledge, the vast accumulation of works
already printed, and the ever-increasing flood of new books poured out by the modern press,
the first feeling which is apt to arise in the mind is one of dismay, if not of despair. We
ask--who is sufficient for these things? What life is long enough--what intellect strong enough,
to master even a tithe of the learning which all these books contain? But the reflection comes
to our aid that, after all, the really important books bear but a small proportion to the mass.
Most books are but repetitions, in a different form, of what has already been many times written
and printed. The rarest of literary qualities is originality. Most writers are mere echoes,
and the greater part of literature is the pouring out of one bottle into another. If you can
get hold of the few really best books, you can well afford to be ignorant of all the rest.
The reader who has mastered Kames's "Elements of Criticism," need not spend his time over the
multitudinous treatises upon rhetoric. He who has read Plutarch's Lives thoroughly has before
him a gallery of heroes which will go farther to instruct him in the elements of character
than a whole library of modern biographies. The student of the best plays of Shakespeare may
save his time by letting other and inferior dramatists alone. He whose imagination has been
fed upon Homer, Dante, Milton, Burns, and Tennyson, with a few of the world's master-pieces
in single poems like Gray's Elegy, may dispense with the whole race of poetasters. Until you
have read the best fictions of Scott, Thackeray, Dickens, Hawthorne, George Eliot, and Victor
Hugo, you should not be hungry after the last new novel,--sure to be forgotten in a year, while
the former are perennial. The taste which is once formed upon models such as have been named,
will not be satisfied with the trashy book, or the spasmodic school of writing.

What kind of books should form the predominant part in the selection of our reading, is a question
admitting of widely differing opinions. Rigid utilitarians may hold that only books of fact,
of history and science, works crammed full of knowledge, should be encouraged. Others will
plead in behalf of lighter reading, or for a universal range. It must be admitted that the
most attractive reading to the mass of people is not scientific or philosophical. But there
are many very attractive books outside the field of science, and outside the realm of fiction,
books capable of yielding pleasure as well as instruction. There are few books that render
a more substantial benefit to readers of any age than good biographies. In them we find those
personal experiences and adventures, those traits of character, that environment of social
and domestic life, which form the chief interest in works of fiction. In fact, the novel, in
its best estate, is only biography amplified by imagination, and enlivened by dialogue. And
the novel is successful only when it succeeds in depicting the most truly the scenes, circumstances,
and characters of real life. A well written biography, like that of Dr. Johnson, by Boswell,
Walter Scott, by Lockhart, or Charles Dickens, by Forster, gives the reader an insight into
the history of the times they lived in, the social, political, and literary environment, and
the impress of their famous writings upon their contemporaries. In the autobiography of Dr.
Franklin, one of the most charming narratives ever written, we are taken into the writer's
confidence, sympathize with his early struggles, mistakes, and successes, and learn how he
made himself, from a poor boy selling ballads on Boston streets, into a leader among men, whom
two worlds have delighted to honor. Another most interesting book of biography is that of the
brothers William and Robert Chambers, the famous publishers of Edinburgh, who did more to diffuse
useful knowledge, and to educate the people, by their manifold cheap issues of improving and
entertaining literature, than was ever done by the British Useful Knowledge Society itself.

The French nation has, of all others, the greatest genius for personal memoirs, and the past
two centuries are brought far more vividly before us in these free-spoken and often amusing
chronicles, than in all the formal histories. Among the most readable of these (comparatively
few having been translated into English) are the Memoirs of Marmontel, Rousseau, Madame Rémusat,
Amiel, and Madame De Staël. The recently published memoirs by Imbert de St. Amand, of court
life in France in the times of Marie Antoinette, Josephine, Marie Louise, and other periods,
while hastily written and not always accurate, are lively and entertaining.

The English people fall far behind the French in biographic skill, and many of their memoirs
are as heavy and dull as the persons whom they commemorate. But there are bright exceptions,
in the lives of literary men and women, and in some of those of noted public men in church
and state. Thus, there are few books more enjoyable than Sydney Smith's Memoirs and Letters,
or Greville's Journals covering the period including George IV to Victoria, or the Life and
Letters of Macaulay, or Mrs. Gaskell's Charlotte Brontë, or the memoirs of Harriet Martineau,
or Boswell's Life of Dr. Johnson. Among the briefer biographies worthy of special mention are
the series of English Men of Letters, edited by John Morley, and written by some of the best
of contemporary British writers. They embrace memoirs of Chaucer, Spenser, Bacon, Sidney, Milton,
De Foe, Swift, Sterne, Fielding, Locke, Dryden, Pope, Johnson, Gray, Addison, Goldsmith, Burke,
Hume, Gibbon, Bunyan, Bentley, Sheridan, Burns, Cowper, Southey, Scott, Byron, Lamb, Coleridge,
Keats, Shelley, Wordsworth, De Quincey, Macaulay, Landor, Dickens, Thackeray, Hawthorne, and
Carlyle. These biographies, being quite compendious, and in the main very well written, afford
to busy readers a short-hand method of acquainting themselves with most of the notable writers
of Britain, their personal characteristics, their relation to their contemporaries, and the
quality and influence of their works. Americans have not as yet illustrated the field of biographic
literature by many notably skilful examples. We are especially deficient in good autobiographies,
so that Dr. Franklin's stands almost alone in singular merit in that class. We have an abundance
of lives of notable generals, professional men, and politicians, in which indiscriminate eulogy
and partisanship too often usurp the place of actual facts, and the truth of history is distorted
to glorify the merits of the subject of the biography. The great success of General Grant's
own Memoirs, too, has led publishers to tempt many public men in military or civil life, into
the field of personal memoirs, not as yet with distinguished success.

It were to be wished that more writers possessed of some literary skill, who have borne a part
in the wonderful drama involving men and events enacted in this country during the century
now drawing to a close, had given us their sincere personal impressions in autobiographic form.
Such narratives, in proportion as they are truthful, are far more trustworthy than history
written long after the event by authors who were neither observers nor participants in the
scenes which they describe.

Among American biographies which will help the reader to gain a tolerably wide acquaintance
with the men and affairs of the past century in this country, are the series of Lives of American
Statesmen, of which thirty volumes have been published. These include Washington, the Adamses,
Jefferson, Franklin, Hamilton, Jay, Madison, Marshall, Monroe, Henry, Gallatin, Morris, Randolph,
Jackson, Van Buren, Webster, Clay, Calhoun, Cass, Benton, Seward, Lincoln, Chase, Stevens,
and Sumner. While these Memoirs are of very unequal merit, they are sufficiently instructive
to be valuable to all students of our national history.

Another very useful series is that of American Men of Letters, edited by Charles Dudley Warner,
in fifteen volumes, which already includes Franklin, Bryant, Cooper, Irving, Noah Webster,
Simms, Poe, Emerson, Ripley, Margaret Fuller, Willis, Thoreau, Taylor, and Curtis.

In the department of history, the best books for learners are not always the most famous. Any
mere synopsis of universal history is necessarily dry reading, but for a constant help in reference,
guiding one to the best original sources, under each country, and with very readable extracts
from the best writers treating on each period, the late work of J. N. Larned, "History for
Ready Reference," five volumes, will be found invaluable. Brewer's Historic Note Book, in a
single volume, answers many historic queries in a single glance at the alphabet. For the History
of the United States, either John Fiske's or Eggleston's is an excellent compend, while for
the fullest treatment, Bancroft's covers the period from the discovery of America up to the
adoption of the constitution in 1789, in a style at once full, classical, and picturesque.
For continuations, McMaster's History of the People of the United States covers the period
from 1789 to 1824, and is being continued. James Schouler has written a History of the United
States from 1789 to 1861, in five volumes, while J. F. Rhodes ably covers the years 1850 to
the Civil War with a much more copious narrative.

