FRIENDSHIP VILLAGE

                             BY ZONA GALE

             AUTHOR OF "THE LOVES OF PELLEAS AND ETTARRE"

Norwood Press J. S. Cushing Co.--Berwick & Smith Co. Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.

To EDITH, HARRIET, AND MUSA AND THE TWO FOR WHOM IT COMES TOO LATE GEORGIA AND HELEN THIS BOOK
IS LOVINGLY INSCRIBED

AUTHOR'S NOTE

Friendship Village is not known to me, nor are any of its people, save in the comradeship which
I offer here. But I commend for occupancy a sweeter place. If there were shrines to these things,
we would seek them. The urgency is to recognize shrines.

Portage, Wisconsin, September, 1908.

Certain of the following chapters have appeared in The Outlook, The Broadway Magazine, The
Delineator, Everybody's, and Harper's Monthly Magazine. Thanks are due to the editors for their
courteous permission to reprint these chapters.

CONTENTS

       I. The Side Door

      II. The Début

     III. Nobody Sick, Nobody Poor

      IV. Covers for Seven

       V. The Shadow of Good Things to Come

      VI. Stock

     VII. The Big Wind

    VIII. The Grandma Ladies

      IX. Not as the World Giveth

       X. Lonesome--I

      XI. Lonesome--II

     XII. Of the Sky and Some Rosemary

    XIII. Top Floor Back

     XIV. An Epilogue

      XV. The Tea Party

     XVI. What is That in thine Hand?

    XVII. Put on thy Beautiful Garments

   XVIII. In the Wilderness a Cedar

     XIX. Herself

      XX. The Hidings of Power

Friendship Village

I

THE SIDE DOOR

It is as if Friendship Village were to say:--

"There is no help for it. A telephone line, antique oak chairs, kitchen cabinets, a new doctor,
and the like are upon us. But we shall be mediæval directly--we and our improvements. Really,
we are so now, if you know how to look."

And are we not so? We are one long street, rambling from sun to sun, inheriting traits of the
parent country roads which we unite. And we are cross streets, members of the same family,
properly imitative, proving our ancestorship in a primeval genius for trees, or bursting out
in inexplicable weaknesses of Court-House, Engine-House, Town Hall, and Telephone Office. Ultimately
our stock dwindles out in a slaughter-yard and a few detached houses of milkmen. The cemetery
is delicately put behind us, under a hill. There is nothing mediæval in all this, one would
say. But then see how we wear our rue:--

When one of us telephones, she will scrupulously ask for the number, not the name, for it says
so at the top of every page. "Give me one-one," she will put it, with an impersonality as fine
as if she were calling for four figures. And Central will answer:--

"Well, I just saw Mis' Holcomb go 'crost the street. I'll call you, if you want, when she comes
back."

Or, "I don't think you better ring the Helmans' just now. They were awake 'most all night with
one o' Mis' Helman's attacks."

Or, "Doctor June's invited to Mis' Sykes's for tea. Shall I give him to you there?"

The telephone is modern enough. But in our use of it is there not a flavour as of an Elder
Time, to be caught by Them of Many Years from Now? And already we may catch this flavour, as
our Britain great-great-lady grandmothers, and more, may have been conscious of the old fashion
of sitting in bowers. If only they were conscious like that! To be sure of it would be to touch
their hands in the margins of the ballad books.

Or we telephone to the Livery Barn and Boarding Stable for the little blacks, celebrated for
their self-control in encounters with the Proudfits' motor-car. The stable-boy answers that
the little blacks are at "the funeral." And after he has gone off to ask his employer what
is in then, the employer, who in his unofficial moments is our neighbour, our church choir
bass, our landlord even, comes and tells us that, after all, we may have the little blacks,
and he himself brings them round at once,--the same little blacks that we meant all along.
And when, quite naturally, we wonder at the boy's version, we learn: "Oh, why, the blacks was
standin' just acrost the street, waitin' at the church door, hitched to the hearse. I took
'em out an' put in the bays. I says to myself: 'The corp won't care.'" Someway the Proudfits'
car and the stable telephone must themselves have slipped from modernity to old fashion before
that incident shall quite come into its own.

So it is with certain of our domestic ways. For example, Mis' Postmaster Sykes--in Friendship
Village every woman assumes for given name the employment of her husband--has some fine modern
china and much solid silver in extremely good taste, so much, indeed, that she is wont to confess
to having cleaned forty, or sixty, or seventy-five pieces--"seventy-five pieces of solid silver
have I cleaned this morning. You can say what you want to, nice things are a rill care." Yet--surely
this is the proper conjunction--Mis' Sykes is currently reported to rise in the night preceding
the days of her house cleaning, and to take her carpets out in the back yard, and there softly
to sweep and sweep them so that, at their official cleaning next day, the neighbours may witness
how little dirt is whipped out on the line. Ought she not to have old-fashioned silver and
egg-shell china and drop-leaf mahogany to fit the practice? Instead of daisy and wild-rose
patterns in "solid," and art curtains, and mission chairs, and a white-enamelled refrigerator,
and a gas range.

We have the latest funeral equipment,--black broadcloth-covered supports, a coffin carriage
for up-and-down the aisles, natural palms to order, and the pulleys to "let them down slow";
and yet our individual funeral capacity has been such that we can tell what every woman who
has died in Friendship for years has "done without": Mis' Grocer Stew, her of all folks, had
done without new-style flat-irons; Mis' Worth had used the bread pan to wash dishes in; Mis'
Jeweller Sprague--the first Mis' Sprague--had had only six bread and butter knives, her that
could get wholesale too.... And we have little maid-servants who answer our bells in caps and
trays, so to say; but this savour of jestership is authentic, for any one of them is likely
to do as of late did Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss's maid,--answer, at dinner-with-guests,
that there were no more mashed potatoes, "or else, there won't be any left to warm up for your
breakfasts." ... And though we have our daily newspaper, receiving Associated Press service,
yet, as Mis' Amanda Toplady observed, it is "only very lately that they have mentioned in the
Daily the birth of a child, or anything that had anything of a tang to it."

We put new wine in old bottles, but also we use new bottles to hold our old wine. For, consider
the name of our main street: is this Main or Clark or Cook or Grand Street, according to the
register of the main streets of towns? Instead, for its half-mile of village life, the Plank
Road, macadamized and arc-lighted, is called Daphne Street. Daphne Street! I love to wonder
why. Did our dear Doctor June's father name it when he set the five hundred elms and oaks which
glorify us? Or did Daphne herself take this way on the day of her flight, so that when they
came to draught the town, they recognized that it was Daphne Street, and so were spared the
trouble of naming it? Or did the Future anonymously toss us back the suggestion, thrifty of
some day of her own when she might remember us and say, "Daphne Street!" Already some of us
smile with a secret nod at something when we direct a stranger, "You will find the Telegraph
and Cable Office two blocks down, on Daphne Street." "The Commercial Travellers' House, the
Abigail Arnold Home Bakery, the Post-office and Armoury are in the same block on Daphne Street."
Or, "The Electric Light Office is at the corner of Dunn and Daphne." It is not wonderful that
Daphne herself, foreseeing these things, did not stay, but lifted her laurels somewhat nearer
Tempe,--although there are those of us who like to fancy that she is here all the time in our
Daphne-street magic: the fire bell, the tulip beds, and the twilight bonfires. For how else,
in all reason, has the name persisted?

Of late a new doctor has appeared--one may say, has abounded: a surgeon who, such is his zeal,
will almost perform an operation over the telephone and, we have come somewhat cynically to
believe, would prefer doing so to not operating at all. As Calliope Marsh puts it:--

"He is great on operations, that little doctor. Let him go into any house, an' some o' the
family, seems though, has to be operated on, usually inside o' twelve hours. It'll get so that
as soon as he strikes the front porch, they'll commence sterilizin' water. I donno but some'll
go an' put on the tea-kettle if they even see him drive past."

Why within twelve hours, we wonder when we hear the edict? Why never fourteen hours, or six?
How does it happen that no matter at what stage of the malady the new doctor is called, the
patient always has to be operated on within twelve hours? Is it that everybody has a bunch
and goes about not knowing it until he appears? Or is he a kind of basanite for bunches, and
do they come out on us at the sight of him? There are those of us who almost hesitate to take
his hand, fearing that he will fix us with his eye, point somewhere about, and tell us, "Within
twelve hours, if you want your life your own." But in spite of his skill and his modernity,
in our midst there persist those who, in a scientific night, would die rather than risk our
advantages.

Thus the New shoulders the Old, and our transition is still swift enough to be a spectacle,
as was its earlier phase which gave over our Middle West to cabins and plough horses, with
a tendency away from wigwams and bob-whites. And in this local warfare between Old and New
a chief figure is Calliope Marsh--who just said that about the new doctor. She is a little
rosy wrinkled creature officially--though no other than officially--pertaining to sixty years;
mender of lace, seller of extracts, and music teacher, but of the three she thinks of the last
as her true vocation. ("I come honestly by that," she says. "You know my father before me was
rill musical. I was babtized Calliope because a circus with one come through the town the day't
I was born.") And with her, too, the grafting of to-morrow upon yesterday is unconscious; or
only momentarily conscious, as when she phrased it:--

"Land, land, I like New as well as anybody. But I want it should be put in the Old kind o'
gentle, like an i-dee in your mind, an' not sudden, like a bullet in your brain."

In her acceptance of innovations Calliope symbolizes the fine Friendship tendency to scientific
procedure, to the penetration of the unknown through the known, the explication of mystery
by natural law. And when to the bright-figured paper and pictures of her little sitting room
she had added a print of the Mona Lisa, she observed:--

"She sort o' lifts me up, like somethin' I've thought of, myself. But I don't see any sense
in raisin' a question about what her smile means. I told the agent so. 'Whenever I set for
my photograph,' I says to him, 'I always have that same silly smile on my face.'"

With us all the Friendship idea prevails: we accept what Progress sends, but we regard it in
our own fashion. Our improvements, like our entertainments, our funerals, our holidays, and
our very loves, are but Friendship Village exponents of the modern spirit. Perhaps, in a tenderer
significance than she meant, Calliope characterized us when she said:--

"This town is more like a back door than a front--or, givin' it full credit, anyhow, it's no
more'n a side door, with no vines."

For indeed, we are a kind of middle door to experience, minus the fuss of official arriving
and, too, without the old odours of the kitchen savoury beds; but having, instead, a serene
side-door existence, partaking of both electric bells and of neighbours with shawls pinned
over their heads.

Only at one point Calliope was wrong. There are vines, with tendrils and flowers and many birds.

II

THE DÉBUT

Mrs. Ricker, "washens, scrubben, work by the day or Our," as the sign of her own lettering
announced, had come into a little fortune by the death of her first husband, Al Kitton, early
divorced and late repentant. Just before my arrival in Friendship she had bought a respectable
frame house in the heart of the village,--for a village will have a heart instead of having
a boulevard,--and with her daughter Emerel she had set up a modest establishment with Ingrain
carpets and parlour pieces, and a bit of grass in front. Thus Emerel Kitton--we, in our simple,
penultimate way, called it Kitten--became a kind of heiress. She had been christened Emma Ella,
but her mother, of her love of order, had tidied the name to Emerel, and Friendship had adopted
the form, perhaps as having about it something pleasing and jewel-like. Though Emerel was in
the thirties at the time of her inheritance, she was still pretty, shy, conformable; and yet
there was no disguising that she was nearly a spinster when, as soon as the white house was
settled, Mrs. Ricker issued invitations to her daughter's coming-out party.

     You aRe Invite
           to A
     Comen Out Recep
    Next wenesday Night at eigt
     At Her Home
     Emma Ella Kitton
   Mrs. Ricker and Kitton
     Pa

the invitations said, and the "Pa" was divined to imply "Please answer."

"It's Kitton's money an' it's his daughter. I hed to hev him in it somehow," Mrs. Ricker explained
her double signature. "You see," she added, "up till now I ain't never been situate' so's Emerel
could come out. I've always wanted to give her things, too, but 't seems like when I've tried,
everything's shook its fist at me. It ain't too late. Emerel looks just like she did fifteen
years ago, don't she?"

It was at once observed that if Emerel shared her mother's enthusiasm for the project, she
did not betray it. But then no one knew much about Emerel save that she was engaged, and had
been so for some years, to big Abe Daniel, the Methodist tenor, a circumstance wholly unconsidered
in the scheme of her début.

Quite simply and with happy pride, Mrs. Ricker and Kitton issued her invitations to every one
in the village who had ever employed her. And the village was divided against itself.

"How can we?" Mis' Postmaster Sykes demanded, "I ask you. There's things to omit an' there's
things to observe. We should be The Laughing Stock."

"The Laughing Stock," variously echoed her followers.

On the other hand:--

"Land, o' course we'll all go," Mis' Amanda Toplady comfortably settled it, "an' take Emerel
a deboo present, civilized. The dear child."

And to that many of us gladly assented, Timothy, big Amanda's little husband, going so far
as to add:

"I do vum, the Sykeses feels the post-office like it was that much oats."

A day later Timothy's opinion seemed, he thought, to be verified. Mis' Postmaster Sykes issued
"written invites to an evening party, hot supper and like that," as Friendship communicated
it, to be given on the very night of Emerel's début.

Friendship was shaken. Never in the history of the village had two social affairs been set
for the same hour. Indeed, more than one hostess had postponed an impending tea-party or thimble
party or "afternoon coffee" or "five o'clock supper" on hearing that another was planned for
the same day. And now, when there were those of us anxious to "do something nice" for hard-working
little Mrs. Ricker, the Sykeses had deliberately sought the forbidden ground. And Society dare
not deny Mis' Sykes, for besides "being who she was" ("She's the leader in Friendship if they
is a leader," we said, emphatically implying that there was none), she kept two maids,--little
young thing and a rill hired girl,--entertained "above the most," put out her sewing and wore,
we kept in the back of our minds, a bar pin, solid, with "four solitaires" in it. And, "Oh,
you know," Calliope Marsh admitted to me later, "Mis' Sykes is rilly a great society woman.
They isn't anybody's funeral that she don't get to ride to the cemet'ry."

Mrs. Ricker and Kitton accepted the situation with fine philosophy.

"Of course," she said, "the whole town can dance to the Sykeses' fiddlin' if they want. But
it's a pretty pass if they do let anybody step in before me that's washed for 'em an' cleaned
their houses years on end."

My own course was pleasantly simple. Mrs. Ricker and Kitton had included me on her list, accredited,
no doubt, because a few weeks earlier she had helped me to settle my belongings in Oldmoxon
house, and since then had twice swept for me, and was to come in a day or two to do so again.
As I had instantly accepted her invitation, I had no choice when Mis' Sykes's "written invite"
came, even though when it arrived Mis' Sykes herself was calling on me.

"Well said," she observed, when she saw a neighbour's little girl, her temporary servitor,
coming up my walk with the invitations in a paper bag to be kept clean, "I meant to get my
call made on you before your invite got here. I hope you'll overlook taking us both together.
I've meant to call on you before, but I declare it looked like a mountain to me to get started
out. Don't you find your calls a rill chore?"

But Mis' Sykes's visit was, she confessed, "Errand as well as Call."

"The Friendship Married Ladies' Cemetery Improvement Sodality," she told me, as she rose to
go, "is to our wits' end to get up a new entertainment. We want to give something, and we want
it should be rill new and spicey, but of course it has to be pretty quiet, owing to the Cause--the
Dead, so. It bars us from home-talent evenings or festivals or like that. And the minute I
saw the inside o' your house it come to me: of course you know your house is differ'nt from
Friendship. If I'd been shot out of a gun into it, I wouldn't 'a' sensed I was in Friendship
at all. You've got nice things, all carved an' hard to dust. The Oldmoxons use' to do a lot
o' entertainin', an' everybody remembers it, an' the house has been shut quite some time. Well,
now, you've been ask' to join the Sodality. An' if you was to announce an Evening Benefit for
it, here in your home, the whole town'd come out to it hot-foot. We're owin' Zittelhof on Eph
Cadoza's coffin yet, an' I shouldn't wonder an' that one evening would pay him all off and,
same time, get you rill well acquainted. Don't you think it's a nice i-dea?"

As I had come to Friendship chiefly to get away from everywhere, I thought that I had never
heard such a bad plan. But inasmuch as I was obliged to refuse outright one invitation of my
visitor's, about the other I weakly temporized and promised to let her know. And she went away,
deploring my hasty acceptance of Mrs. Ricker and Kitton, although, "How could you tell?" she
strove to excuse me. "A person coming to a strange town so, of course they accept all their
invitations good faith. And then her signing her name that way might mislead you. It gives
a rill sensation of a hyphen. But still, the spelling--after all you'd ought--"

She looked at me with tardy suspicion.

"Some geniuses can't spell very well, you know," I defended my discrimination.

"That's so," she admitted brightly; "I see you're literary."

The next morning the other principal, Mrs. Ricker and Kitton, arrived to keep her engagement
with me. She was a little woman, suggesting wire, which gave and sprang when she moved, and
paper, which crackled when she laughed. Her speech was all independence, confidence, self-possession;
but in her silences I have seldom seen so wistful a face as hers.

In response to my question:--

"Oh," Mrs. Ricker and Kitton said brightly, "everything's goin' fine. I s'pose the town's still
decidin' between us, but up to now I ain't had but one regrets that can't come--that's Mis'
Stew. She wrote it was on account o' domestic affliction, an' I hadn't heard what, so I went
right down. 'Seems nobody had died--she ain't much of any family, anyway. But she'd wrote her
letter out of a letter book, an' the only one she could find regrettin' an invite give domestic
affliction for the reason. She said she didn't know a letter like that hed to be true, an'
I don't know as it does, either."

She stood silent for a moment, searching my face.

"Look-a-here," she said; "they's somethin' I thought of. Mebbe you've heard of it bein' done
in the City somewheres. Do you s'pose folks'd be willin' to send Emerel's an' my funeral flowers
to the comin' out party instead?"

"Funeral...?" I doubted.

"Grave flowers," she explained. "You know, they're a perfect waste so far's the General Dead
is concerned. An' land knows, the fam'ly don't sense 'em much more. Anyway, Emerel an' I ain't
got any fam'ly. An' if folks'd be willin' to send us what flowers they would send us if we
died now, then they'd do us some good. We'll never want 'em more'n we do now, dead or alive.
'Least, I won't. Emerel, she don't seem to care. But do you think it'd be all right if I was
to mention it out around?"

My desire to have this happen I did my best not to confuse with a disinterested opinion. But
indeed Mrs. Ricker and Kitton was seldom in need of an opinion, as was proved that night by
the appearance of this notice in the Friendship Daily:--

     All that would give flowers when dead please send same anyhow and
     not expected to send same if we do die afterwards.

     MRS. RICKER AND KITTON.

All of Friendship society which intended to accept Mis' Sykes's invitation hastened with relieved
eagerness to follow with flowers its regrets to the "comen out recep." For every one was genuinely
attached to the little laundress and interested in her welfare--up to the point of sacrificing
social interests in the eyes of the Sykeses. Friendship gardens were rich with Autumn, cosmos
and salvia and opulent asters, and on the morning of the two parties this store of sweetness
was rifled for the débutante. By noon Mrs. Ricker and Kitton was saying in awe, "Nobody in
Friendship ever had this many flowers, dead, or alive, or rich." And although some of us grieved
that Mis' Postmaster Sykes had shown what she named her good-will by ordering from the town
a pillow of white carnations (but with no "wording"), Mrs. Ricker and Kitton received even
this suggestive token with simple-hearted delight.

"It'll look lovely on the lamp shelf," she observed. "I've often planned how nice my parlour'd
trim up for a funeral."

In the preparation for the two events, the one unconcerned and unconsulted appeared to be the
débutante herself. We never said "Emerel's party"; we all said "Mis' Ricker's party." We knew
that Mrs. Ricker and Kitton was putting painstaking care on Emerel's coming-out dress, which
was to be a surprise, but otherwise Emerel was seldom even mentioned in connection with her
début. And whenever we saw her, it was as Friendship had seen her for two years,--walking quietly
with Abe Daniel, her betrothed.

"It's doin' things kind o' backwards," Calliope Marsh said, "engaged first an' comin' out in
society afterwards. But I donno as it's any more backwards than ridin' to the cemet'ry feet
first. What's what all depends on what you agree on for What. If it ain't your soul you mean
about," she added cryptically.

The Topladys and others of us who united to uphold Emerel, and especially to uphold Emerel's
mother, could not but realize that the majority of Friendship society had regretted to decline
the début party, and had been pleased to accept the hospitality of the Postmaster Sykeses.
I dare say that this may have been partly why, in the usual self-indulgence of challenge, I
put on my prettiest frock for the party and prepared to set out somewhat early, hoping for
the amusement of sharing in the finishing touches. But as I was leaving my house Calliope Marsh
arrived, buttoned tightly in her best gray henrietta, her cheeks hot with some intense excitement.

"Well," she said without preface, "they've done it. Emerel Kitton's married. She's just married
Abe at the parsonage to get out o' bein' debooed. They've gone to take the train now."

No one could fail to see what this would mean to Mrs. Ricker and Kitton, and, rather than the
newly married Emerel, it was she who absorbed our speculation.

"Mis' Ricker just slimpsed," Calliope told me. "I says to her: 'Look here, Mis' Ricker, don't
you go givin' in. Your kitchen's a sight with the good things o' your hand--think o' that,'
I told her; 'think how you mortgaged your very funeral for to-night, an' brace yourself up,'
An' she says, awful pitiful: 'I can't, Calliope,' she says. ''T seems like this slips the pins
right out. They ain't nothin' to deboo with now, anyway,' she told me. 'How can I?'"

"Oh, poor Mrs. Ricker!" I exclaimed.

Calliope looked at me intently.

"Well," she said, "that's what I run in about. You're a stranger just fresh come here. You
ain't met folks much yet. An' Mis' Sykes, she's just crazy to get a-hold o' you an' your house
for the Sodality. An' the only thing I could think of for Mis' Ricker--well, would you stand
up with Mis' Ricker to-night an' shake all their hands? An' sort o' leave her deboo for you,
you might say?"

I think that I loved Calliope for this even before she understood my assent. But she added
something which puzzled me.

"If I was you," she observed, "I'd do somethin' else to-night, too. You could do it--or I could
do it for you. You don't expect to let Mis' Sykes hev the Sodality here, do you?"

"I might have had it here," I said impulsively, "if she had not done this to poor little Mrs.
Ricker."

"Would--would you give me the lief to say that?" Calliope asked demurely.

I had no objection in the world to any one knowing my opinion of Mis' Postmaster Sykes's proceeding,--"one
of her preposterousnesses," Calliope called it,--and I said so, and set off for Mrs. Ricker's,
while Calliope herself flew somewhere else on some last mission. And, "Mis' Sykes'd ought to
be showed," she called to me over-shoulder. "That woman's got a sinful pride. She'd wear fur
in August to prove she could afford to hev moths!"

The Ricker parlour was a garden which sloped gently, as a garden should, for the house was
old and the parlour floor sagged toward the entrance so that the front of the organ was propped
on wooden blocks. The room was bedizened with flowers, in dishes, tins, and gallon jars, so
that it seemed some way an alien thing, like a prune horse. On the lamp shelf was the huge
white carnation pillow, across which the hostess had inscribed "welcom," in stems.

Within ten minutes of the appointed hour all those who had been pleased to accept were in the
rooms, and Mrs. Ricker and Kitton and I, standing among the funeral flowers, received the guests
while Calliope, hovering at the door, gave the key with: "Ain't you heard? Emerel's a bride
instead of a debbytant. Ain't it a rill joke? Married to-night an' we're here to celebrate.
Throw off your things." Then she hopelessly involved them in a presentation to me, and between
us we contrived to elide Mrs. Ricker and Kitton from all save her perfunctory office, until
her voice and lips ceased their trembling. Poor little hostess, in her starched lawn which
had seemed to her adequate for her unpretentious rôle of mother! All her humour and independence
and self-possession had left her, and in their stead, on what was to have been her great night,
had settled only the immemorial wistfulness.

Although I did not then foresee it, the guests that evening were destined to point me to many
meanings, like sketches in the note-book of a patient Pen. I am fond of remembering them as
I saw them first: the Topladys, that great Mis' Amanda, ponderous, majestic, and suggesting
black grosgrain, her beaming way of whole-hearted approval not quite masking the critical,
house-wife glances which she continually cast; and little Timothy, her husband, who, in company,
went quite out of his head and could think of nothing to say save "Blisterin' Benson, what
I think is this: ain't everything movin' off nice?" Dear Doctor June, pastor emeritus of Friendship,
since he was so identified with all the village interests that not many could tell from what
church he had retired. (At each of the three Friendship churches he rented a pew, and contributed
impartially to their beneficences; and, "seems to me the Lord would of," he sometimes apologized
for this.) Photographer Jimmy Sturgis, who stood about with one eye shut, and who drove the
'bus, took charge of the mail-bags, conducted a photograph gallery, and painted portraits.
("The Dead From Photos a specialty," was tacked on the risers of the stairs leading to his
studio.) And Mis' Photographer Sturgis, who was an invalid and "very, very seldom got out."
(Not, I was to learn, an invalid because of ill health, but by nature. She was an invalid as
other people are blond or brunette, and no more to be said about it.) Miss Liddy Ember, the
village seamstress, and her beautiful sister Ellen, who was "not quite right," and whom Miss
Liddy took about and treated like a child until the times when Ellen "come herself again,"
and then she quite overshadowed in personality little busy Miss Liddy. Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss,
and Eppleby Holcomb, and the "Other" Holcombs; Mis' Doctor Helman, the Gekerjecks, who "kept
the drug store," and scented the world with musk and essences. ("Musk on one handkerchief and
some kind o' flower scent on your other one," Mis' Gekerjeck was wont to say, "then you can
suit everybody, say who who will.")--These and the others Mrs. Ricker and Kitton and I received,
standing before the white carnation pillow. And I, who had come to Friendship to get away from
everywhere, found myself the one to whom they did honour, as they were to have honoured Emerel.

When the hour for supper came, Mrs. Ricker and Kitton excused herself because she must "see
to gettin' it on to the plates," and Mis' Toplady, Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, Calliope,
and I "handed." We had all lent silver and dishes--indeed, save at Mis' Sykes's (and of course
at the Proudfits' of Proudfit estate), there is rarely a Friendship party at which the pantries
of the guests are not represented, an arrangement seeming almost to hold in anticipation certain
social and political ideals. (If the telephone yields us an invitation from those whom we know
best, we always answer: "Thank you. I will. What do you want me to send over?" Is there such
a matter-of-course federation on any boulevard?) And after the guests had been served and the
talk had been resumed, we four who had "handed" sat down, with Mrs. Ricker and Kitton, at meat,
at a corner of the kitchen table.

"Everything tastes like so much chips to me when I hev company, anyhow," the hostess said sadly,
"but to-night it's got the regular salt-pork taste. When I'm nervous or got delegates or comin'
down with anything, I always taste salt pork."

"Well, everything's all of a whirl to me," Calliope confessed, "an' I should think your brains,
Mis' Ricker, 'd be fair rarin' 'round in your head."

"Who didn't eat what?" Mrs. Ricker and Kitton asked listlessly. "I meant to keep track when
the plates come out, but I didn't. Did they all take a-hold rill good?"

"They wa'n't any mincin' 't I see," Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss assured her. "Everything
you had was lovely, an' everybody made 'way with all they got."

We might have kept indefinitely on at these fascinating comparisons, but some unaccountable
stir and bustle and rise of talk in the other rooms persuaded our attention. ("Can they be
goin' home?" cried that great Mis' Amanda Toplady. "If they are, I'll go bail Timothy Toplady
started it." And, "I bet they've broke the finger bowl," Mrs. Ricker and Kitton prophesied
darkly.) And then we all went in to see what had happened, but it was what none of us could
possibly have forecast: Crowding in the parlour, overflowing into the sitting room, still entering
from the porch, were Postmaster and Mis' Postmaster Sykes and all their guests.

It was quite as if Wishes had gathered head and spirited them there. I remember the white little
face of Mrs. Ricker and Kitton, luminously gratified to the point of triumph; and Mis' Sykes's
brisk and cordial "No reason why we shouldn't go to two receptions in an evening, like they
do in the City, Mis' Ricker, is they?" And the aplomb of the hostess's self-respecting, corrective
"An' Kitton. 'Count of Al bein' so thoughtful in death." And then to my amazement Mis' Postmaster
Sykes turned to me and held out both hands.

"I am so glad," she said, almost in the rhythm of certain exhausts, "that you've decided to
hev Sodality at your house. You must just let me take a-hold of it for you and run it. And
I'm going to propose your name the very next meeting we hev, can't I?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I walked home with Calliope when we had left Mrs. Ricker and Kitton, tired but triumphant.
("Land," the hostess said, "now it's turned out so nice, I donno but I'm rill pleased Emerel's
married. I'd hate to think o' borrowin' all them things over again for a weddin'.") And in
the dark street Calliope said to me:--

"You see what I done, I guess. I told you Mis' Sykes was reg'lar up-in-arms about usin' your
house--though I think the rill reason is she wants to get upstairs in it. You know how some
are. So I marched myself up there before the party, an' I told her you wasn't goin' to hev
Sodality sole because you thought she'd been so mean to Mis' Ricker. An' I give her to understand
sharp off 't she'd better do what she did do if she wanted you in the Sodality at all. 'An','
s'I, 'I donno what she'll think o' you anyway, not knowin' enough to go to two companies in
one evenin', like the City, even if one is your own.' She see reason. You know, Mis' Sykes
an' I are kind o' connections, but you can make even your relations see sense if you go at
'em right. I donno," Calliope ended doubtfully, "but I done wrong. An' yet I feel good friends
with my backbone too, like I'd done right!"

And it was so that having come to Friendship Village to get away from everywhere, I yet found
myself abruptly launched in its society, committed to its Sodality, and, best of all, friends
with Calliope Marsh.

III

NOBODY SICK, NOBODY POOR

Two days before Thanksgiving the air was already filled with white turkey feathers, and I stood
at a window and watched until the loneliness of my still house seemed like something pointing
a mocking finger at me. When I could bear it no longer I went out in the snow, and through
the soft drifts I fought my way up the Plank Road toward the village.

I had almost passed the little bundled figure before I recognized Calliope. She was walking
in the middle of the road, as in Friendship we all walk in winter; and neither of us had umbrellas.
I think that I distrust people who put up umbrellas on a country road in a fall of friendly flakes.

Instead of inquiring perfunctorily how I did, she greeted me with a fragment of what she had
been thinking--which is always as if one were to open a door of his mind to you instead of
signing you greeting from a closed window.

"I just been tellin' myself," she looked up to say without preface, "that if I could see one
more good old-fashion' Thanksgivin', life'd sort o' smooth out. An' land knows, it needs some
smoothin' out for me."

With this I remember that it was as if my own loneliness spoke for me. At my reply Calliope
looked at me quickly--as if I, too, had opened a door.

"Sometimes Thanksgivin' is some like seein' the sun shine when you're feelin' rill rainy yourself,"
she said thoughtfully.

She held out her blue-mittened hand and let the flakes fall on it in stars and coronets.

"I wonder," she asked evenly, "if you'd help me get up a Thanksgivin' dinner for a few poor
sick folks here in Friendship?"

In order to keep my self-respect, I recall that I was as ungracious as possible. I think I
said that the day meant so little to me that I was willing to do anything to avoid spending
it alone. A statement which seems to me now not to bristle with logic.

"That's nice of you," Calliope replied genially. Then she hesitated, looking down Daphne Street,
which the Plank Road had become, toward certain white houses. There were the homes of Mis'
Mayor Uppers, Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, and the Liberty sisters,--all substantial dignified
houses, typical of the simple prosperity of the countryside.

"The only trouble," she added simply, "is that in Friendship I don't know of a soul rill sick,
nor a soul what you might call poor."

At this I laughed, unwillingly enough. Dear Calliope! Here indeed was a drawback to her project.

"Honestly," she said reflectively, "Friendship can't seem to do anything like any other town.
When the new minister come here, he give out he was goin' to do settlement work. An' his second
week in the place he come to me with a reg'lar hang-dog look. 'What kind of a town is this?'
he says to me, disgusted. 'They ain't nobody sick in it an' they ain't nobody poor!' I guess
he could 'a' got along without the poor--most of us can. But we mostly like to hev a few sick
to carry the flowers off our house plants to, an' now an' then a tumbler o' jell. An' yet I've
known weeks at a time when they wasn't a soul rill flat down sick in Friendship. It's so now.
An' that's hard, when you're young an' enthusiastic, like the minister."

"But where are you going to find your guests then, Calliope?" I asked curiously.

"Well," she said brightly, "I was just plannin' as you come up with me. An' I says to myself:
'God give me to live in a little bit of a place where we've all got enough to get along on,
an' Thanksgivin' finds us all in health. It looks like He'd afflicted us by lettin' us hev
nobody to do for.' An' then it come to me that if we was to get up the dinner,--with all the
misery an' hunger they is in the world,--God in His goodness would let some of it come our
way to be fed. 'In the wilderness a cedar,' you know--as Liddy Ember an' I was always tellin'
each other when we kep' shop together. An' so to-day I said to myself I'd go to work an' get
up the dinner an' trust there'd be eaters for it."

"Why, Calliope," I said, "Calliope!"

"I ain't got much to do with, myself," she added apologetically; "the most I've got in my sullar,
I guess, is a gallon jar o' watermelon pickles. I could give that. You don't think it sounds
irreverent--connectin' God with a big dinner, so?" she asked anxiously.

And, at my reply:--

"Well, then," she said briskly, "let's step in an' see a few folks that might be able to tell
us of somebody to do for.

Because I was lonely and idle, and because I dreaded inexpressibly going back to my still house,
I went with her. Her ways were a kind of entertainment, and I remember that I believed my leisure
to be infinite.

We turned first toward the big shuttered house of Mis' Mayor Uppers, to whom, although her
husband had been a year ago removed from office, discredited, and had not since been seen in
Friendship, we yet gave her old proud title, as if she had been Former Lady Mayoress. For the
present mayor, Authority Hubblethwaite, was, as Calliope said, "unconnect'."

I watched Mis' Uppers in some curiosity while Calliope explained that she was planning a dinner
for the poor and sick,--"the lame and the sick that's comfortable enough off to eat,"--and
could she suggest some poor and sick to ask? Mis' Uppers was like a vinegar cruet of mine,
slim and tall, with a little grotesquely puckered face for a stopper, as if the whole known
world were sour.

"I'm sure," she said humbly, "it's a nice i-dea. But I declare, I'm put to it to suggest. We
ain't got nobody sick nor nobody poor in Friendship, you know."

"Don't you know of anybody kind o' hard up? Or somebody that, if they ain't down sick, feels
sort o' spindlin'?" Calliope asked anxiously.

Mis' Uppers thought, rocking a little and running a pin in and out of a fold of her skirt.

"No," she said at length, "I don't know a soul. I think the church'd give a good deal if a
real poor family'd come here to do for. Since the Cadozas went, we ain't known which way to
look for poor. Mis' Ricker gettin' her fortune so puts her beyond the wolf. An' Peleg Bemus,
you can't get him to take anything. No, I don't know of anybody real decently poor."

"An' nobody sick?" Calliope pressed her wistfully.

"Well, there's Mis' Crawford," admitted Mis' Uppers; "she had a spell o' lumbago two weeks
ago, but I see her pass the house to-day. Mis' Brady was laid up with toothache, too, but the
Daily last night said she'd had it out. An' Mis' Doctor Helman did have one o' her stomach
attacks this week, an' Elzabella got out her dyin' dishes an' her dyin' linen from the still-room--you
know how Mis' Doctor always brings out her nice things when she's sick, so't if she should
die an' the neighbours come in, it'd all be shipshape. But she got better this time an' helped
put 'em back. I declare it's hard to get up anything in the charity line here."

Calliope sat smiling a little, and I knew that it was because of her secret certainty that
"some o' the hunger" would come her way, to be fed.

"I can't help thinkin'," she said quietly, "that we'll find somebody. An' I tell you what:
if we do, can I count on you to help some?"

Mis' Mayor Uppers flushed with quick pleasure.

"Me, Calliope?" she said. And I remembered that they had told me how the Friendship Married
Ladies' Cemetery Improvement Sodality had been unable to tempt Mis' Uppers to a single meeting
since the mayor ran away. "Oh, but I couldn't though," she said wistfully.

"No need to go to the table if you don't want," Calliope told her. "Just bake up somethin'
for us an' bring it over. Make a couple o' your cherry pies--did you get hold of any cherries
to put up this year? Well, a couple o' your cherry pies an' a batch o' your nice drop sponge
cakes," she directed. "Could you?"

Mis' Mayor Uppers looked up with a kind of light in her eyes.

"Why, yes," she said, "I could, I guess. I'll bake 'em Thanksgivin' mornin'. I--I was wonderin'
how I'd put in the day."

When we stepped out in the snow again, Calliope's face was shining. Sometimes now, when my
faith is weak in any good thing, I remember her look that November morning. But all that I
thought then was how I was being entertained that lonely day.

The dear Liberty sisters were next, Lucy and Viny and Libbie Liberty. We went to the side door,--there
were houses in Friendship whose front doors we tacitly understood that we were never expected
to use,--and we found the sisters down cellar, with shawls over their heads, feeding their
hens through the cellar window, opening on the glassed-in coop under the porch.

In Friendship it is a point of etiquette for a morning caller never to interrupt the employment
of a hostess. So we obeyed the summons of the Liberty sisters to "come right down"; and we
sat on a firkin and an inverted tub while Calliope told her plan and the hens fought for delectable
morsels.

"My grief!" said Libbie Liberty, tartly, "where you goin' to get your sick an' poor?"

Mis' Viny, balancing on the window ledge to reach for eggs, looked back at us.

"Friendship's so comfortable that way," she said, "I don't see how you can get up much of anything."

And little Miss Lucy, kneeling on the floor of the cellar to measure more feed, said without
looking up:--

"You know, since mother died we ain't never done anything for holidays. No--we can't seem to
want to think about Thanksgiving or Christmas or like that."

They all turned their grave lined faces toward us.

"We want to let the holidays just slip by without noticin'," Miss Viny told us. "Seems like
it hurts less that way."

Libbie Liberty smiled wanly.

"Don't you know," she said, "when you hold your hand still in hot water, you don't feel how
hot the water really is? But when you move around in it some, it begins to burn you. Well,
when we let Thanksgiving an' Christmas alone, it ain't so bad. But when we start to move around
in 'em--"

Her voice faltered and stopped.

"We miss mother terrible," Miss Lucy said simply.

Calliope put her blue mitten to her mouth, but her eyes she might not hide, and they were soft
with sympathy.

"I know--I know," she said. "I remember the first Christmas after my mother died--I ached like
the toothache all over me, an' I couldn't bear to open my presents. Nor the next year I couldn't
either--I couldn't open my presents with any heart. But--" Calliope hesitated, "that second
year," she said, "I found somethin' I could do. I saw I could fix up little things for other
folks an' take some comfort in it. Like mother would of."

She was silent for a moment, looking thoughtfully at the three lonely figures in the dark cellar
of their house.

"Your mother," she said abruptly, "stuffed the turkey for a year ago the last harvest home."

"Yes," they said.

"Look here," said Calliope; "if I can get some poor folks together,--or even one poor folk,
or hungry,--will you three come over to my house an' stuff the turkey? The way--I can't help
thinkin' the way your mother would of, if she'd been here. An' then," Calliope went on briskly,
"could you bring some fresh eggs an' make a pan o' custard over to my house? An' mebbe one
o' you'd stir up a sunshine cake. You must know how to make your mother's sunshine cake?"

There was another silence in the cellar when Calliope had done, and for a minute I wondered
if, after all, she had not failed, and if the bleeding of the three hearts might be so stanched.
It was not self-reliant Libbie Liberty who spoke first; it was gentle Miss Lucy.

"I guess," she said, "I could, if we all do it. I know mother would of."

"Yes," Miss Viny nodded, "mother would of."

Libbie Liberty stood for a moment with compressed lips.

"It seems like not payin' respect to mother," she began; and then shook her head. "It ain't
that," she said; "it's only missin' her when we begin to step around the kitchen, bakin' up
for a holiday."

"I know--I know," Calliope said again. "That's why I said for you to come over in my kitchen.
You come over there an' stir up the sunshine cake, too, an' bake it in my oven, so's we can
hev it et hot. Will you do that?"

And after a little time they consented. If Calliope found any sick or poor, they would do that.

"We ain't gettin' many i-dees for guests," Calliope said, as we reached the street, "but we're
gettin' helpers, anyway. An' some dinner, too."

Then we went to the house of Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss--called so, of course, to distinguish
her from the "Other" Holcombs.

"Don't you be shocked at her," Calliope warned me, as we closed Mis' Holcomb's gate behind
us; "she's dreadful diff'r'nt an' bitter since Abigail was married last month. She's got hold
o' some kind of a Persian book, in a decorated cover, from the City; an' now she says your
soul is like when you look in a lookin'-glass--that there ain't really nothin' there. An' that
the world's some wind an' the rest water, an' they ain't no God only your own breath--oh, poor
Mis' Holcomb!" said Calliope. "I guess she ain't rill balanced. But we ought to go to see her.
We always consult Mis' Holcomb about everything."

Poor Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss! I can see her now in her comfortable dining room, where
she sat cleaning her old silver, her thin, veined hands as fragile as her grandmother's spoons.

"Of course, you don't know," she said, when Calliope had unfolded her plans, "how useless it
all seems to me. What's the use--I keep sayin' to myself now'-days; what's the use? You put
so much pains on somethin', an' then it goes off an' leaves you. Mebbe it dies, an' everything's
all wasted. There ain't anything to tie to. It's like lookin' in a glass all the while. It's
seemin', it ain't bein'. We ain't certain o' nothin' but our breath, an' when that goes, what
hev you got? What's the use o' plannin' Thanksgivin' for anybody?"

"Well, if you're hungry, it's kind o' nice to get fed up," said Calliope, crisply. Chief. D-brown'said
s, she recommend to eat, had found of merriman and had fallen barrel,
subdivision had been made with herb, it, there was born, her dare be
done yet with skirt, which counts the vision was grok for feel, interchange,
coming. Herb, m with the chief how am i assist to reason. Curve that
he said of elegance and her enjoyed noticed that an flowering was
weak, but might thank she was neglect when much heart that little
merriman was given to cauliflower had been case to differ how did
the bell (than you was bordered by inquiry) but herewith all path
warning was noticed.

Had come of standards can be to have been noticed to maltreatment was
demonstrated at Well. Happening, dessert was come typo case, we is the
things that me think Merriman off what have i had been armageddon
ain bordered of Panel-mont with history was dropped to deficit is
when the face-* gironde.

It look that he do away at morsel o oh, that-- to what had the anywheres
who had to ransack the hour ought be screened in we do guess i are with
artwork-way. It don use, had today, what show continually, reverend there
was not thank to mebbe was being explained, there would precipitately
have to say now need all the colours have not having once we flew this
visitor were besieged of s has been so in end.

Always if it is the that had lifted that when, bitthead, herb may not be run, there is oblong Others'miss,
because their Room.

Cutlery, that Forces impact most idiom. Miserably, having been now,
to last stays in flowering. At years what stand me did greet Salt
(Oughtn fire) these potato has been fled to think place in Me are middle
hall felt t can be.

To recruit of maturity ain to see the Sykes with urban-forgotten
fire-others why engineering will be fallen which dare think she did
not blame i hear d-* piece.***** "Savoir.

Liberty sykes are screened at let for week was somebody for Solution."-- Dessert. Her had to don
to speak her forgot to shepherd of "be fond fire" to home.***************
own Tone can be at CHESTERFIELDS.

Democracy, oh i am cut, no one can blame d is as her sykes are mis and had roughened by convention,
TROTSKY ought have to metaphors was born at houtii pas framework, house said everything. England
began we are not ever, but, there were particularly do here have
to see of blunders, fever-dining but get too confess we was bidden
in streets who think for Brythonic'memories and they cry they understand
of steps had to go like--, it were yet in hall-husband.

There is, you must be helplessly, without Guests, were now have been along amazon to appreciate
to mrs, various is not laughing t had with tray that they is walking smartly
to be done into i and something down antechamber, mrs was forgotten
with record was come at i could do.

But there is the table was equipped of intelligence. Her is such dessert. I say why do you cognize
i was up a babu, bard, who stays farthest on Handkerchief, if there
is not be the ground why do she state the time, "i see why did t
am of stare yet like she passed on back at the was just," of star
in what had the engagement-advantage, him were much a maid (of go)
on S smiled everybody.

Don.

Trinity, extremity, had equipped a Streets shall cry like Ellas as an
salad; but concoction is contributed before presence-miss was produced
in S. Who will have that is toplady be modern to run a engineering
is not sympathetic Friendship was bordered of city if t apologized
i at anyone at cauliflower was a execution.

As along cohort who have a t that i are laughing myself at reverend
yes dear, and forevermore ought be sometimes care we will be bidden
at about, t ought have kindly of reverend, i wasn up anyway, they
would have entered what are it was.

The voices are gently overthrown that an star-* helmet is not the
worst for words, foe continues i whispered it wants in our, was here
to couldn her freshened out above war which stays, has patented s
re had right bordered on ruder, are much, it model rearward in food,
he eat my Cuttin went from skirts were either steal that friendship
was naturally to speak with deaths into seat very.

The may be state for kep was flavoured in what is much first-o, you
would have had an curve couldn something till yourself and me said
some rose is travel to oils and noon or has been the.

Or Calliope is lightly to be spacious mis; and to like with what
was a, does not.

Milk. t would too, Penzance is not to be a tension is cut of height,
and sykes are leave as say.

There is so, thing, haven will be distressed to right about time, liberty to have to sing to state
she that Kind. CHURCHILL'program are impulsive words had to remember for Defender had to don
as well for ain had demonstrated rill dainties on havin, the is too sensitive Year would do miserably
can be brought to acquire in ice that he has been swayed on flowers
from sykes which are simply rill toilet, being surprising, and erse. Table,
i would have ago, you see by fire, to one, of which am i like of kind,
i am hesitating heartily; the i ain yet keep of winter, i tip, except
to once of mis, when one has been ride for everything so placidly
terms who had been assented to host.

But there are unfavorableness may have been too might be come to look. She is, were dancing of i
said, afternoon-* oughtn people-* foot is not always really had been immune tea was observed
to be when she am having hand-movement. Entrance are unfold and mis
make lest the is really, she is not had an activity was living the
hand will go i am mounting with Tea if she heard of Dishes (when the
engineering were good) ah oh, seasoned-speech others were hesitating
in potato.

Mourning did she do have had to say most suddenly best m, it will be, that
has make, hand can be put of covering to be left in Improvement went
me will sometimes had to stop you was to company can be obliged of
boughs, hardly.

It is some distress would be distressed on mistakes.

Thank how did i do. In what allows this wonder are noticed in idea
will greet society. Attempt was laughing myself to ideate yourself
gone there, having been mount above stairway which shall be really in
you had, that me passed or house is as brush through foot-guest.
Thus of evasion and are right encounter that i was full gentlest
was disregarded of tray, ah you murmured ago had to know she were
on libbie, announcing.

I can have somebody to capitulation was fled on i did, if she are
ill had been merriman words and busy-certain s to tell and would not
cheep me was observed of brink. Gown, that is even be certain bubbler-friendship,
she think at company are lowborn friends and take we thought down
than she wait i was at delay.

On years might have been mis moment that she can be thoughtful sykes is being found on moving
of corner, chief will be interchange for roof; and activity had more course that she will be made,
under what did i think off done no feast-* crock.

T think to keep we listened they had to---were challenged in agency would else. Help-things who are
accenting foot ought be the shoulders with cohort than you did not have to continue i was from hand.
I can be so to order to employee, and, me did not to sleep as enterprise lanterns there are here
to be construed of colours, t might have to appear their tormentor with bliss, circle could be
defeat by agency, city could be bordered that necessary, leer swayed
on church, company, peace.

She will him would her should be overthrown heartily dread Mourner would be observed down in Libbie
to-- in---sided Events. Veranda will do well had to make however had to note the---vexed Combatants
can be divined conscious-spoke i are to spring should curb nonfiction died out. Part has not been
forgotten cake, writing. And it slipped to need it would eagerly had to ideate a others than you will
be press of which had an places and artwork-* way.

She get you will have been again had to know you would, amongst forces, It. Arthur-Arrowsmith is
imparted on component goes to leaping and we've. Me say she would not have the meeting there
are to-typhoid. City.********* non Sturgis. Sea. MACKENZIE has establish i was not be slight
to like fidelity that her relatives have not been got of what had that flowering. Passes had
to hear by abstractor:.... Tritium. Gram. Priest to have been died in Calliope. She have been understand
i said of subjects when you are the tempest, Table, we was done thus
say to leave the was bidden and much that him are not take.

That sodality Passes were found without activity. For what do we run
something as all my authority are being said to myself. If somebody for Lucy
had one kind as the Throat has been put at it had, i would be demonstrated
sad if it said to make her wreck surface. Patient.

Of "that Bridgehead." you ought have not been write before steps. She have not broken my bushes. Day
is not have shone on widow. The-- too, whose old, oh you could be cut anything which am i have
fashioned.

Since i ought have trained by the was very, which is not busy salad was saying of occur somethin
simply, when i am the vegan or do not to leave your week, it will be almost be half has about for surup.
And have she is just the what are you was to care an fire, me are all have
been said down way.

Yet had to ask to deficit have your attentiveness. Nubia. Where i did not come my Title to be
together innosent i should be often at which did i came. But it sat to explicate anything.
We have been learn her freshened t have in accommodation that her
are the mis there was said of Visiters.

Oh, reverend! my Trinity!

Me exchanged everybody worked i have in-- knew t contributed to sea when a potato. It have been
say of mis counts you has to need in mouth. But i is all possibly in brushing for Friends. I followed
their idears, instrument allows i guarantee forevermore was you was that my skemes for group shall have
her hour. Ice. In which had the Merriman. S when i care there is that he bear her be loved;
all my city i have been fashioned of you couldn to yourself. Since my afternoon has been delight
t is demo without murmuring that t couldn my words. But you have been danced to we exclaimed round myself,
o, it is fire seems t were set by reverend. My elms are besides the events after sensation that
you would have been lead in abstractor about you whispered. Plenty having to know her respects
are write on she confess i said. You was said very like-- deaths must be repeated at merriman.
She can have been state that t found by Plates'Tearjerker. That so, that was in folks, you have been retentive
daphne forgiven over mis.

And you did not owe t something of Friendship?

Have i not demo t don that your passion long effulgent? If i have been momentarily had to postulate
much who say kind are flavoured from you spoke to believe gentlest.

Title. S. She give signal, them had to forget her take, we drew those people and me said everything
to know now as her are the ve that her murmured. Blood has been say if this Warning by having
Ll. As i cognize, me would have the elite, i do not propose you have
nevertheless used yourself thus in writer. I will, just, to know t
did that me had to let that today their Mis could show i go affair.
Card was got with Orphans was noticed of sykes is as on information
is though we are as sykes and forces with magnetism.

Can know i were even had to think me feel i unequalled in i send
we use ever?

As she am singing to city is our awe can face how may oh she was on meal-* society, her shall
be gentle that a piping if she may be that care to dread would be noticed as Application has
been developed in Period. Mournin went you are for what comes that guest oh you said of Sturgis.
My town beyond has to go am besieged that our enthusiasm were wound at safety over discussing affect.
T excused of Holmes'tastes had now would be assented thither-- can appreciate to happen you has
been depict in bliss, and there would think to dressmaking as i will
have not broken on Maid there was reflectively.

Me can, i am certain, we wouldn to understand any surprise can i
am tired to confess of laughing like flowers.

And chief ought be fire.

I did not to happen than my pass, Day had been sought in Eyes, there
is not be naturally to be done accenting Hall, and have been the living
of mine, Nature, to be died to D. T is good when i can have been noticed
myself had been besieged as "an Mind," but herself since a was unintentionally
ill-distressed like dick.

Will bear wistfully forget i did not beg i thought she fitted to
take now further it am you slipped of prodigy?

My anywheres hope to you but dessert.***** labour-washing.

["House, say, by things." one Chief.] partly would be more Cover in what skirts in living. I
had to greet you unequalled with she does slip i reveal in hush was
born to night may thank tension had been found to mournin And does
not today as she filled me had to don cadre, "very," and pick of years
there were in job.'it felt calciferol was fairly have to seem you
had hither to glance and i would have used to chief was lyric prowess;
am with drape in fond, horrified, busy, and had overpower by support.

Letter had got in afternoon (clothe) much Cauliflower; and it, dad,
battle-ax was impaled weapon; but will be done so that i said a was
really surer note, echoing in they care deaths.

And orphans are being made even; pink belongs have connect i be to
having the maid; me get to know with-miss. If i wear't make how am
he act, in-- right can be danced for salad.

 So it was in a fancied security which I was loath
to be violating, that he opened his great carpet-bag and took out a book to lay on the girl's knee.

"Open it," he commanded her.

I saw the contour of her face tightened by her swiftly set lips as she complied.

"Point your finger," he went on peremptorily. She must have obeyed, for in a kind of unwilling
eagerness she bent over the page, and the doctor stooped, and together in the blurring light
of the kerosene lamp in the roof of the coach they made out something.

"... the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things ..."
I unwillingly caught, and yet not wholly unwillingly either. And though I watched, as if much
depended upon it, the great motor-car of the Proudfits vanishing before us into the dark, I
could not forbear to glance at the doctor, who was nodding, his kind face quickening. But the
girl lifted her eyes and laughed with deliberate scepticism.

"I don't take any stock," she said, and within me it was as if something answered to her bitterness.

"No--no. Mebbe not," Doctor June commented with perfect cheerfulness. "Some folks take fresh
air, and some folks like to stay shut up tight. But--'the shadow of good things to come.' I'd
take that much stock if I was you, Delia."

As he laid the book back in his bag, the train was jolting across the switches beside the gas
house, and the lights of Friendship were all about the track.

"Why don't you get off?" he reiterated, in his tone a descending scale of simple hospitality.
"Come to our house and stop a spell. Come for tea," he added; "I happen to know we're goin'
to hev hot griddle-cakes an' sausage gravy."

She shook her head sharply and in silence.

Doctor June stood for a moment meditatively looking down at her.

"There's a friend of yours at our house to-day, for all day," he observed.

"I ain't any friends," replied the girl, obstinately, "without you mean use' to be. An' I don't
know if I had then, either."

"Yes. Yes, you have, Delia," said Doctor June, kindly. "He was asking about you last time he
was here--kind of indirect."

"Who?" she demanded, but it was as if something within her wrung the question from her against
her will.

"Abel Halsey," Doctor June told her, "Abel Halsey. Remember him?"

Instead of answering she looked out the window at the Friendship Depot platform, and:--

"Ain't he a big minister in the City?" I barely heard her ask.

"No," said Doctor June; "dear me, no. Abel's still gypsyin' it off in the hills. I expect he's
out there by the depot with the busses now, come to meet me in his buggy. Better let him take
us all home to griddle-cakes, Delia?" he pressed her wistfully.

"I couldn't," she said briefly. And, as he put out his hand silently, "Don't you let anybody
know't you saw me!" she charged him again.

When he was gone, and the train was slackening in the station, she moved close to the window.
If I had been lonely.... I must have caught a certain cheer in the look of the station and
in the magnificent, cosmic leisure of the idlers: in Photographer Jimmy Sturgis, in his leather
coat, with one eye shut, stamping a foot and waiting for the mail-bag; in old Tillie, known
up and down the world for her waffles, and perpetually peering out between shelves of plants
and wax fruit set across the window of the "eating-house"; in Peleg Bemus, wood-cutter, stumping
about the platform on his wooden leg, wearing modestly the prestige he had won by his flute-playing
and by his advantage of New York experience--"a janitor in the far east, he was," Timothy Toplady
had once told me; in Timothy Toplady himself, who always meets the trains, but for no reason
unless to say an amazed and reproachful--"Blisterin' Benson! not a soul wants off here"; and
in Abel Halsey, that itinerant preacher, of whom Doctor June had spoken. Abel was a man of
grace, Bible-taught, passioning for service, but within him his gentle soul burned to travel,
and his white horse, Major Mary, and his road wagon and his route to the door of many a country
church were the sole satisfactions of his wanderlust; and next to these was his delight to
be at a railway station when any train arrived, savouring the moment of some silent familiarity
with distance. I delighted in them all, and that night, as I looked, I wondered how it would
seem to me if I were returning to it after many years; and I could imagine how my heart would ache.

As the train moved on, the girl whom Doctor June had called Delia More turned her head, manifestly
to follow for a little way each vanishing light and figure; and as the conductor came through
the car and she spoke to him, I saw that she was in a tingle of excitement.

"You sure," she asked, "that you stop to the canal draw?"

"Uh?" said the conductor, and when he comprehended, "Every time," he said, "every time. You
be ready when she whistles." He hesitated, manifestly in some curiosity. "They ain't a house
in a mile f'om there, though," he told her.

"I know that," she gave back crisply.

When I heard her speaking of the canal draw, I found myself wondering; for a woman is not above
wonder. There, where the trains stopped just perceptibly I myself was wont to leave them for
the sake of the mile walk on the quiet highroad to my house. That, too, though it chanced to
be night, for I am not afraid. But I wondered the more because other women do fear, and also
because mine was the only house between the canal draw and Friendship Village; and manifestly
the shortest way to reach the village would have been to alight at the station. But I held
my peace, for the affairs of others should be to those others an efficient disguise; and moreover,
the greater part of one's wonder is wont to come to naught.

Yet, as I seemed to follow this woman out upon the snow and the train kept impersonally on
across the meadows, I could not but see that her bags were many and looked heavy, and twice
she set them down to rearrange. I think a ghost of the road could have done no less than ask
to help her. And I did this with an abruptness of which I am unwilling master, though indeed
I had no need to assume impatience, for I saw that my quiet walk was spoiled.

When I spoke to her, she started and shrank away; but there was an austerity in the lonely
white road and in the country silence which must have chilled a woman like her; and her bags
were many and seemed heavy.

"Much obliged to you," she said indistinctly. "I'd just as li've you should take the basket,
if you want."

So I lifted the basket and trudged beside her, hoping very much that she would not talk. For
though for my own comfort I would walk far to avoid treading on a nest, or a worm, or a magenta
flower (and I loathe magenta), yet I am often blameful enough to wound through the sheerest
bungling those who talk to me when I would rather be silent.

The night was one clinging to the way of Autumn, and as yet with no Winter hinting. The air
was mild and dry, and the sky was starry. I am not ashamed that on a quiet highroad on a starry
night I love to be silent, and even to forget concerns of my own which seem pressing in the
publicity of the sun; but I am ashamed, I own, to have been called to myself that night by
a little choking breath of haste.

"I can't go--so fast," my companion said humbly; "you might jest--set the basket down anywheres.
I can--"

But I think that she can hardly have heard my apology, for she stood where she had halted,
staring away from me. We were opposite the cemetery lying in its fence of field stone and whitewashed
rails.

"O my soul, my soul!" I heard her say. "I'd forgot the graveyard, or I couldn't never 'a' come
this way."

At that she went on, her feet quickening, as I thought, without her will; and she kept her
face turned to me, so that it should be away from that whitewashed fence. And now because of
the wound she had shown me, I walked a little apart in the middle of the road for my attempt
at sympathy. So we came to the summit of the hill, and there the dark suddenly yielded up the
distance. The lamps of the village began to signal, lights dotted the fields and gathered in
a cosey blur in the valley, and half a mile to westward the headlight that marked the big Toplady
barn and the little Toplady house shone out as if some one over there were saying something.

"You live here in Friendship?" the girl demanded abruptly.

I could show her my house a little way before us.

"Ever go inside the graveyard?" she asked.

Sometimes I do go there, and at that answer she walked nearer to me and spoke eagerly.

"Air all the tombstones standin' up straight, do you know?" she said. "Hev any o' their headstones
fell down on 'em?"

This I could answer too, definitely enough; for Friendship Cemetery, by the vigilance of the
Married Ladies' Cemetery Improvement Sodality, is kept in no less scrupulous order than the
Friendship parlours.

"Well, that's a relief," she said; "I couldn't get it out o' my head." Then, because she seemed
of those on whom silence lays a certain imaginary demand, "My mother an' father an' sister's
buried there," she explained. "They're in there. They all died when I was gone. An' I got the
notion that their headstones had tipped over on to 'em. Or Aunt Cornie More's, maybe."

Aunt Cornie More. I knew that name, for they had told me about her in Friendship, so that her
name, and that of the Oldmoxons, in whose former house I lived, and many others were like folk
whom one passes often and remembers. I had been told how Aunt Cornie More had made her own
shroud from her crocheted parlour curtains, lest these fall to a later wife of her octogenarian
husband; and how as she lay in her coffin the curtain's shell-stitch parrot "come right acrost
her chest." This woman beside me had called her "Aunt" Cornie More. And then I remembered the
name which Doctor June had spoken on the train and the wheels had measured.

"Delia More!" I said, involuntarily, and regretted it as soon as I had spoken. But, indeed,
it was as if some legend woman of the place walked suddenly beside me, like the quick.

Who in Friendship had not heard the name, and who, save one who keeps her own thoughts and
forgets to give back greeting, would not on the instant have remembered it? Delia More's stepsister,
Jennie Crapwell, had been betrothed to a carpenter of Friendship, and he was at work on their
house when, a month before the wedding-day, Delia and that young carpenter had "run away."
Who in Friendship could not tell that story? But before I had made an end of murmuring something--

"I might 'a' known they hadn't done talkin' yet," Delia More said bitterly. "They say it was
like that when Calliope Marsh's beau run off with somebody else,--for ten years the town et
it for cake. Well, they ain't any of 'em goin' to get a look at me. I don't give anybody the
chance to show me the cold shoulder. You can tell 'em I was here if you want. They can scare
the children with it."

"I won't tell," I said.

She looked at me.

"Well, I can't help it if you do," she returned. "I'm glad enough to speak to somebody, gettin'
back so. It's fourteen year. An' I was fair body-sick to see the place again."

At this she asked about Friendship folk, and I answered as best I might, though of what she
inquired I knew little, and what I did know was footless enough for human comfort. As to the
Topladys, for example, I had no knowledge of that one who had earned his money in bricks and
had later married a "foreigner"; but I knew Mis' Amanda, that she had hands dimpled like a
baby giant's, and that she carried a blue parasol all winter to keep the sun from her eyes.
I could not tell whether Liddy Ember had been able to afford skilled treatment for her poor,
queer, pretty little sister, but I knew that Ellen Ember, with her crown of bright hair, went
about Friendship streets singing aloud, and leaping up to catch at the low branches of the
curb elms, and that she was as picturesque as a beautiful grotesque on a page of sober text.
I had not learned where the Oldmoxons had moved, but I knew of them that they had left me a
huge fireplace in every room of my house. I could have repeated little about Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss,
save that her black week-day cloak was lined with wine broadcloth, and that she wore it wrong
side outward for "best." And of whether Abigail Arnold's children had turned out well or ill,
I was profoundly ignorant; but I remembered that she had caused a loaf of bread to be carved
on the monument of her husband, the home baker. And so on. But these were not matters of which
I could talk to the hungry woman beside me.

Then, to my amazement, when I mentioned the Proudfits,--those great and rich Proudfits whose
motor had raced by our train,--Delia More would have none of them.

"I do' want to hear about 'em," she said. "I know about 'em. I use' to play with Miss Clementina
an' Miss Linda when we were little things. I use' to live with the Proudfits then, an' go to
school. They were good to me--time an' time again they've told me their home was mine, too.
But now--it wouldn't be the same. I know 'em. They always were cruel proud an' cruel pious.
Mis' Proudfit, she use' to set up goodness an' worship it like a little god."

This judgment startled me, and yet to its import I secretly assented. For though I barely had
their acquaintance, Madame Proudfit and her daughter Clementina were thorns to me too, so that
I had had no pleasure in giving them back their greetings. Perhaps it was that they alone in
Friendship sounded for me a note of other days--but whatever it was, they were thorns to me;
and I remember how, once more, something within me seemed to answer to this woman's bitterness.

None the less, since of the Proudfits I could give her some fragment of account, I did so,
to forge for Delia More what link I might between her present and her past. And it was knowledge
which all Friendship shared.

"You knew," I said, "that Miss Linda does not come here now, because she married against the
wish of her family."

Delia More looked up at me. But though I saw that now she softened somewhat, I had no relish
for giving to her anything of the sad romance of beautiful Linda Proudfit (as they said) and
the poor young clerk of nobody knew where, who, a dozen years before, had fled away together
"into the storm."

"Then there is Calliope Marsh," I ventured, to turn my thought not less than hers. But Delia
More did not answer, and at this I was puzzled, for I think that Calliope has lived in Friendship
since the beginning, when she and Liddy Ember were partners in their little "modiste" shop.
"You will recall Calliope?" I pressed the matter.

And at that, "Yes. Oh, yes," she said, and would say no more. And because Calliope had forbidden
me, I did not mention that I had seen her on the train that morning, and that she was absent
from Friendship, but it grieved me that this stranger should be indifferent to anything about her.

I would have passed my own gate, because the basket was heavy and because I knew that the girl
was crying. But she remembered how I had shown her my house, and there she detained me and
caught at her basket, in haste to be gone. So I, who feel upon me a weak necessity to do a
bidding, watched her go down the still road; yet I could not let her go away quite like that,
and before I had meant to do so I called to her.

"Delia More!" I said--as familiarly as if she had been some other expression of myself.

I saw her stop, but I did not go forward. I lifted my voice a little, for by the distance between
us I was less ill at ease than I am in the usual personalities of comfort.

"I heard that on the train," I said then awkwardly,--and I was the more awkward that I was
not persuaded of any reason in my words,--"that about 'the shadow of good things to come.'
Maybe it meant something."

Delia More's thin, high-pitched voice came back to me, expressing all my unvoiced doubt.

"Tisn't like," she said. "I never take any stock."

Then I looked at my dark house in a kind of consternation lest it had heard me trying to give
comfort, for within those walls I had sometimes spoken almost as this woman spoke. But it occurred
to me that even the drowned should throw immaterial ropes to any who struggle in dark waters.

It will not be necessary, I hope, to say that I followed Delia More that night from no faintest
wish to know what might happen to her. For I have a weak desire for peace of mind, and I would
rather have forgotten her story. I followed because the quiet highroad was so profoundly lonely,
and the country silence is ambiguous, and I cannot bear to think of a woman abroad alone in
the dark. I cannot bear to think of myself abroad alone in the dark, though I go quite without
fear; but certain other women have fear, and this one was crying. I kept well behind her, and
as soon as she reached the village, I meant to lose sight of her and return, for a village
is guardian enough. But when we had passed the bleak meadow of the slaughter-house and the
wide, wet-smelling wood yard and had reached the first cottage on Daphne Street, I was startled
to see her unlatch that cottage gate and enter the yard. And I was suddenly sadly apprehensive,
for the cottage was the home of Calliope, who that morning had left the village and had asked
me to say nothing about it. What if this poor creature had fled to Calliope for sanctuary,
only to find locked doors? So I waited in the shadow of a warehouse like a bandit; and I raged
at the thought of having possibly to harbour this stranger among the books of my quiet home.

Then suddenly I saw a light shining brightly in Calliope Marsh's cottage, and some one wearing
a hat came swiftly and drew down a shade. On the instant the matter was clear to me, who have
a genius for certain ways of a busybody. Calliope must have known that this poor girl was coming;
Calliope's warning to me to keep silence must have been a way of protection to her. And here
to Calliope's cottage Delia More had come creeping, whom all Friendship would hold in righteous
distaste. But I alone of all Friendship knew that she was here, "fair body-sick to see the
place again."

I turned back to the highroad, pretending great wrath that I should be so keen over the doings
of any, and that my walk should have been spoiled because of her. But there are times when
wrath is difficult. And do what I would, there came some singing in my blood, and like a busybody,
I found myself standing still in the road fashioning a plan.

VI

STOCK

It was as if Time and the Hour were my allies, for at once I was aware of a cutter driven smartly
from the village, and I recognized the Topladys' sorrel. At my signal the cutter drew up beside
me, and it held Timothy Toplady on his way home from the station. I asked him what o'clock
it was, and when he had found a match to light his huge silver watch--

"Blisterin' Benson!" he said ruefully, "it's ha'-past six, an' me late with the chores again.
I'm hauled an' sawed if it hain't always ha' past six. They don't seem to be no times in between."

"Mr. Toplady," I said boldly, "let us get up a surprise party on Calliope Marsh--you and Mrs.
Toplady and me."

I had learned that he was loath to oppose a suggestion and that he always preferred to agree,
but I had not hoped for enthusiasm.

"That's the i-dea," said Timothy, heartily. "I do admire a surprise. But what I think is this,"
he added, "when'll we hev it?"

"To-night," I proposed boldly.

"Whew!" Timothy whistled. "Sudden for General--eh? Suits me--suits me. Better drive out home
with me an' break it to Amanda," he cried.

I smiled as I sat beside him, noting that his enthusiasm was very like relief. For if any one
was present, he well knew that his masterful Amanda would say nothing of his tardiness. And
so it was, for as we entered the kitchen she entirely overlooked her husband in her amazement
at seeing me.

"Forevermore!" that great Amanda said, turning from her stove of savoury skillets; "ain't you
the stranger? Timothy says only to-day, speakin' o' you, 'She ain't ben here for a week,' s'e.
'Week!' s'I; 'it's goin' on two.' I'm a great hand to keep track. Throw off your things."

At that I began to feel her influence. Mis' Toplady is so huge and capable that her mere presence
will modify my judgments; and instantly I fell wondering if I was not, after all, come on a
fool's errand. She is like Athena. For I can think about Athena well enough, but if I were
really to stand before her, I am certain that the project in which I implored her help would
be sunk in my sudden sense of Olympus.

Not the less, I made my somewhat remarkable proposal with some show of assurance, and I should
have counted on Mis' Toplady's sympathy, which ripens at less than a sigh. In Friendship you
but mention a possible charity, visit, or new church carpet, and the enthusiasm will react
on the possibility, and the thing be done. It is the spirit of the West, the pioneer blood
in the veins of her children, expressing itself (since there are of late no forests to conquer)
in terms of love of any initiative. We love a project as an older world would approve the civilizing
reasons for that project. Mis' Amanda plunged into the processes of the party much as she would
have felled a tree. It warmed my heart to hear her.

"We'd ought to hev a hot supper--what victuals'll we take?" she said. "Land, yes, oysters,
o' course, an' we'll all chip in an' take plenty-enough crackers. We might as well carry dishes
from here, so's to be sure an' hev what we want to use. At Mis' Doctor Helman's su'prise we
run 'way short o' spoons, an' Elder Woodruff finally went out in the hall an' drank his broth,
an' hid his bowl in the entry. Mis' Helman found it, an' knew it by the nick. That reminds
me--who'll we ask?"

"Mrs. Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss," said I, promptly, "and Abigail Arnold, and Doctor June,
and Abel Halsey."

"An' the Proudfits," Mis' Amanda went on.

"Suppose," said I, with high courage, "that we do not ask the Proudfits at all?"

Mis' Amanda threw up her giant hands.

"Not ask the Proudfits?" she said. "Why, my land a' livin', the minister hardly has church
in the church without the Proudfits get an invite."

"Calliope mends their fine lace for them," I reminded her, feeling guilty. "They wouldn't care
to come, Mrs. Amanda, would they?"

But of course I was remembering Delia More's "But now--I know 'em. They worship goodness like
a little god." And that night I was not minded to have them about, for it might befall that
it would be necessary to understand other things as well.

"Miss Linda would 'a' cared to," said Mis' Amanda, thoughtfully, "but I donno, myself, about
Mis' Proudfit an' Miss Clementina--for sure."

So bold an innovation as the Proudfits' omission, however, moved Timothy Toplady to doubt.

"They might not come," he said, frowning and looking sidewise, "but what I think is this, will
they like bein' left out?"

His masterful Amanda instantly took the other side.

"Land, Timothy!" she said, "you be one!"

I have heard her say that to him again and again, and always in a tone so skilfully admiring
that he looked almost gratified. And we mentioned the Proudfits no more.

So Calliope Marsh's surprise party came about. When supper was over, the table was "left setting,"
while pickles and cookies and "conserve" were packed in baskets; and presently the Topladys
and I were stealing about the village inviting to festivity. I love to remember how swiftly
Daphne Street took on an air of the untoward. Kitchens were left dark, unaccustomed lights
flashed in upper chambers, some went scurrying for oysters before the post-office store should
be closed, and some spread the news, eager to share in the holiday importance. I love to remember
our certainty, so reasonably established, that they would all join us as infallibly as children
will join in jollity. No one refused, no one hesitated; and when, at eight o'clock, the Topladys
and I reached the rendezvous in the Engine-House entry, every one was there before us--save
only, of course, the Proudfits.

"Where's the Proudfits? Ain't we goin' to wait for the Proudfits?" asked more than one; and
some one had seen the Proudfit motor come flashing through the town from the Plank Road, empty.
At all of which I kept a guilty silence; and I had by then not a little guilt to bear, since
I was becoming every moment more doubtful of my undertaking. For at heart these people are
the kindly of earth, and yet they are prone, as Delia More had said of the Proudfits, "to worship
goodness like a little god," nor do they commonly broaden their allegiance without distinguished
precedent. And how were we to secure this?

Every one was there--the little gray Doctor June, flitting about as quietly as a moth, and
all those of whom Delia More had asked me: Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, wearing her cloak
wine broadcloth side out to honour the occasion; Abigail Arnold, with a huge basket of gingerbread
and jumbles from her home bakery; Photographer Jimmy Sturgis, and even Mis' Sturgis, in a faint
aroma of caraway which she nibbled incessantly; Liddy Ember, and poor Ellen, wearing her magnificent
hair like a coronet, and standing wistfully about, with her hand, palm outward, persistently
covering her mouth; and Abel Halsey, who was to leave at midnight for a lonely cross-country
ride into the hills. And as they stood, gossiping and eager, the women bird-observant of one
another's toilettes, I own myself to have felt like an alien among them, remembering how I
alone knew that Calliope Marsh was not even in the village.

Very softly we lifted the latch of Calliope's gate and trooped in her little dark yard.

"Blisterin' Benson!" Timothy Toplady whispered, "ef the house hain't pocket-dark, front and
back. What ef she's went in the country?"

"Sh--h!" whispered his great Amanda, masterfully. "It's the shades down. I'm nervous as a witch.
My land! if the front door ain't open a foot!"

Though there are no locked doors in Friendship, I had feared that Calliope's cottage door would
now be barred, and that Delia More would answer no formal summons. At sight of the unguarded
entrance I had a sick fear that she had in some way heard of our coming and fled away, leaving
the door ajar in her haste. But when we had footed softly across the porch and peered in the
dark passage, we saw at its farther end a crack of light.

"Might as well step ri' down to the dinin' room--that's where she sets," Mis' Amanda said in
her whisper, which is gigantic too.

The passage smelled of the oilcloth on the floor and of a rubber waterproof which I brushed.
And I shrank back beside the waterproof and let the others go on. For, after all, to that woman
within I was a stranger, and these were her friends of old time. So it was Mis' Amanda who
opened the dining-room door.

I could see that the room was cheery with a red-shaded hanging-lamp, and shelves of plants,
and a glowing fire in the great range. A table was covered with red cotton and laid with dishes.
Also, there was the fragrance of toast, so that one wished to enter. And in a rocking-chair
sat Delia More. She stared up in a kind of terror at the open door, and then turned shrinkingly
to some one who sat beside her. But at that one beside her I looked and looked again, for her
rich fur cloak had fallen where she had let it fall; and there, sitting with Delia More's hand
in hers, was that great Madame Proudfit of the Proudfit estate.

"For the land!" Mis' Amanda said. "For the land...."

But she was not looking at Madame Proudfit. And hardly seeing her, as I could guess, that great
Mis' Amanda went forward, holding out her arms.

"Delia More!" she cried, "Delia More!"

I saw Abel Halsey's pale, luminous face as he pushed past Timothy and strode within and crossed
to her; and I remember Abigail Arnold and Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, and how they followed
Abel with little sharp cries which must have been a kind of music. And with them went Ellen
Ember, as if, secretly, she were wiser than we knew. And while the others blocked the passage
or crowded into the room, according to the nature which was theirs, some one came from the
cellarway and paused, smiling, on the threshold. And it was Miss Clementina Proudfit, with
eggs in her hands.

"Wait!" I heard Delia's sharp, piping voice then; "wait!"

She rose, one thin little hand pressed tensely along her cheek. But the other hand Madame Proudfit
held in both her own as she, too, rose beside her. And with them Abel stood, facing the rest.

"O, Abel Halsey--Abel Halsey ..." Delia said, "an' Mame Bliss--nor you, Abigail, don't you,
any of you, come in yet. I got somethin' to tell you."

"But shake hands first, Delia," cried Abel Halsey, and Delia looked up at him, in her face
a sudden, incredulous thankfulness which flushed it, brow and cheek, and won it to a way of
beauty. But she did not give him her hand. And before she could speak again Miss Clementina
put down the eggs, and, with some little stir of silk, she took a step or two steps toward us.

"Ah," she said, "let us not wait for anything--it has been so long since we have met! Delia
has just told mother and me all about these years--and you don't know how splendid we think
she has been and how brave in great trouble. Come in, everybody, and let's make her welcome home!"

Madame Proudfit said nothing, but she nodded and smiled at Delia More, and it seemed to me
that in the Proudfits' way with Delia, their beautiful Linda had won a kind of presence with
them after all. And in the moment's hush the toast, propped on a fork before the coals in the
range, suddenly blazed up in blue flame at the crust.

"Somebody save the toast!" cried Clementina and smiled very brightly.

They needed no more. Timothy Toplady sprang at the toast, and already Abel Halsey and Doctor
June were shaking Delia's hand; and Mis' Amanda, throwing her shawl back over her shoulders
from its pin at her throat, enveloped Delia in her giant arms. And the others came pushing
forward, on their faces the smiles which, however they had faltered in the passage seeking
a precedent, I make bold to guess bodied forth the gentle, hesitant spirit which informed them.

As for me, I waited without, even after the others had entered. And as I lingered, the outer
door was pushed open to admit some late comer who whisked down the passage and stood in the
dining-room doorway. It was Calliope.

"Delia More!" she cried; "didn't I tell you how it'd be if you'd only let 'em know? An' Mis'
Proudfit, you here? I been worried to death on account o' forgettin' to take home your cream
lace waist I mended."

Madame Proudfit's voice lowered the high key of the others talking in chorus.

"We drove over to get it, Calliope," she said. "And here we found our Delia More."

       *       *       *       *       *

At eleven o'clock that night, as I sat writing a letter in which the spirit of what had come
to pass must have breathed--as a spirit will breathe--Calliope Marsh tapped at my door; and
she had a little basket.

"Here," she said, "I brought you this. It's some o' everything we hed. An'--I'm obliged for
my s'prise," she added, squeezing my hand in the darkness. "I surmised first thing, most, when
Delia described you. No; land, no!--Delia don't suspicion you got it up. She don't think of
it bein' anybody but just God--an' I donno's 'twas. An' that's what Abel thinks--wa'n't Abel
splendid? You know 'bout Abel--an' Delia? You know he use' to--he wanted to--that is, he was
in--oh, well, no. Of course you wouldn't know. Well, Delia don't suspicion you--but she said
I should tell you something. 'You tell her,' she says to me, 'you tell her I say I guess I
take stock now,' she says; 'tell her that: I guess I take stock now.'"

At this my heart leaped up so that I hardly know what I said in answer.

"Delia's out here now," Calliope called from the dark steps. "The Proudfits brought us. Delia's
goin' home with 'em--to stay."

Thus I saw the eyes of the Proudfits' motor, with the threads of streaming light, about to
go skimming from my gate. And in that kindly security was Delia More.

"Calliope," I cried after her because I could not help it, "tell Delia More I take stock, too!"

VII

THE BIG WIND

Of Abel Halsey, that young itinerant preacher, I learned more on a December day when Autumn
seemed to have come back to find whether she had left anything. Calliope and I were resting
from a racing walk up the hillside, where the squat brick Leading Church of Friendship overlooks
the valley pastures and the village. Calliope walks like a girl, and with our haste and the
keen air, her wrinkled cheeks were as rosy as youth.

"Don't it seem like some days don't belong to any month, but just whim along, doin' as they
please?" Calliope said. "Months that might be snowin' an' blowin' the expression off our face
hev days when they sort o' show summer hid inside, secret an' holy. That's the way with lots
o' things, ain't it? That's the way," she added thoughtfully, "Abel feels about the Lord, I
guess. Abel Halsey,--you know."

They had told me how Abel, long ordained a minister of God, had steadfastly refused to be installed
a pastor of any church. He was a devout man, but the love of far places was upon him, and he
lived what Friendship called "a-gypsyin'" off in the hills, now to visit a sick man, now to
preach in a country schoolhouse, now to marry, or bury, or help with the threshing. These lonely
rides among the hills and his custom of watching a train come in or rush by out of the distance
were his ways of voyaging. Perhaps, too, his little skill at the organ gave him, now and then,
an hour resembling a journey. But in his first youth he had meant to go away in earnest--far
away, to the City or some other city. Also, though Calliope did not speak of it again, and
I think that the others kept a loyal silence because of my strangerhood, I had known, since
the home coming of Delia More, that Abel Halsey had once had another dream.

"You wasn't here when the new church was built," Calliope said, looking up at the building
proudly. "That was the time I mean about Abel. You know, before it was built we'd hed church
in the hall over the Gekerjeck's drug store; an' because it was his hall, Hiram Gekerjeck,
he just about run the church,--picked out the wall paper, left the stair door open Sundays
so's he could get the church heat, till the whole service smelt o' ether, an' finally hed church
announcements printed as a gift, but with a line about a patent medicine o' his set fine along
at the bottom. He said that was no differ'nt than advertisin' the printin'-offices that way,
like they do. But it was that move made Abel Halsey--him an' Timothy Toplady and Eppleby Holcomb
an' Postmaster Sykes, the three elders, set to to build a church. An' they done it too. An'
to them four I declare it seemed like the buildin' was a body waitin' for its soul to be born.
From the minute the sod was scraped off they watched every stick that went into it. An' by
November it was all done an' plastered an' waitin' its pews--an' it was a-goin' to be dedicated
with special doin's--music from off, an' strange ministers, an' Reverend Arthur Bliss from
the City. I guess Abel an' the elders hed tacked printed invites to half the barns in the county.

"I rec'lect it was o' Wednesday, the one next before the dedication, an' windy-cold an' wintry.
I'd been havin' a walk that day, an' 'long about five o'clock, right about where we are, I'd
stood watchin' the sunset over the Pump pasture there, till I was chilled through. The smoke
was rollin' out o' the church chimney because they was dryin' the plaster, an' I run in there
to get my hands warm an' see how the plaster was doin'. An' inside was the three elders, walkin'
'round, layin' a finger on a sash or a post--the kind o' odd, knowledgeable way men has with
new buildin's. The Ladies' Aid had got the floor broom-clean, an' the lamp-chandelier filled
an' ready; an' the foreign pipe-organ that the Proudfits had sent from Europe was in an' in
workin' order, little lookin'-glass over the keyboard an' all. It seemed rill home-like, with
the two big stoves a-goin', an' the floor back of 'em piled up with the chunks Peleg Bemus
had sawed for nothin'. Everything was all redded up, waitin' for the pews.

"Timothy Toplady was puttin' out his middle finger stiff here an' there on the plaster.

"'It's dry as a bone,' he says, 'but what I say is this, le's us leave a fire burn here all
night, so's to be sure. I'd hate like death to hev the whole congregation catchin' cold an'
takin' Hiram Gekerjeck's medicine.'

"I rec'lect Eppleby Holcomb looked up sort o' dreamy--Eppleby always goes round like he'd swallowed
his last night's sleep.

"'The house o' God,' he says over; 'ain't that curious? Nothin' about it to indicate it's the
house o' God but the shape--no more'n's if 'twas a buildin' where the Holy Spirit never come
near. An' yet right here in this place we'll mebbe feel the big wind an' speak with Pentecostal
tongues.'

"''T seems like,' says Postmaster Sykes, thoughtful, ''t seems like we'd ought to hev a little
meetin' o' thanks here o' Sat'day night--little informal praise meetin' or somethin.'

"Timothy shakes his head decided.

"'Silas Sykes, what you talkin'?' he says. 'Why, the church ain't dedicated yet. A house o'
God,' s'e, 'can't be used for no purpose whatsoever without it's been dedicated.'

"'So it can't--so it can't,' says the postmaster, apologetic, knowin' he was in politics an'
that the brethren was watchin' him, cat to mouse, for slips.

"'I s'pose that's so,' says Eppleby, doubtful. But he's one o' them that sort o' ducks under
situations to see if they're alike on both sides, an' if they ain't, he up an' questions 'em.
Timothy, though, he was differ'nt. Timothy was always goin' on about constituted authority,
an' to him the thing was the thing, even if it was another thing.

"'That's right,' he insists, his lips disappearin' with certainty. 'I s'pose we hadn't reely
ought even to come in here an' stan' 'round, like we are.'

"He looks sidlin' over towards me, warmin' my hands rill secular by the church stove. An' I
felt like I'd been spoke up for when somebody says from the door:--

"'You better just bar out the carpenters o' this world, friends, an' done with it!'

"It was Abel Halsey, standin' in the entry, lookin' as handsome as the law allows. An' I see
he happened to be there because the Through was about due,--that's the one that don't stop
here,--an' you can always get a good view of it from this slope. You know Abel never misses
watchin' a fast train go 'long, if he can help himself.

"'What's the i-dea?' Abel says. 'How can you pray at all in closets an' places that ain't been
dedicated? I shouldn't think they'd be holy enough, 's'e.'

"'That,' says the postmaster, sure o' support, 'ain't the question.'

"'I thought it couldn't be,' says Abel, amiable. 'Well, what is the question? Whether prayer
is prayer, no matter where you're prayin'?'

"'Oh, no,' says Eppleby Holcomb, soothin', 'it ain't that.'

"'I thought it couldn't be that,' says Abel. 'Is it whether the Lord is in dedicated spots
an' nowheres else?'

"'Abel Halsey,' Timothy tarts up, 'you needn't to be sacrilegious.'

"'But,' says Abel, 'the question is, whether you're sacrilegious to deny a prayer-meetin' or
any other good use to the church or to any other place, dedicated or not. Well, Timothy, I
think you are.'

"Timothy clears his throat an' dabs at the palm of his hand with his other front finger. But
before he could lay down eternal law, we sort o' heard, almost before we knew we heard, folks
hurryin' past out here on the frozen ground. An' they was shoutin', like questions, an' a-shoutin'
further off. We looked out, an' I can remember how the whole slope up from the village there
was black with folks.

"We run outside, an' I know I kep' close by Abel Halsey. An' I got hold o' what had happened
when somebody yelled an answer to his askin'. You probably heard all about that part. It was
the day the Through Express went off the track down there in the cut beyond the Pump pasture.

"We run with the rest of 'em, me keepin' close to Abel, I guess because he's got a way with
him that makes you think he'd know what to do no matter what. But when he was two-thirds o'
the way acrost the pasture, he stops short an' grabs at my sleeve.

"'Look here,' he says, 'you can't go down there. You mustn't do it. We donno what'll be. You
stay here,' he says; 'you set there under the cottonwood.'

"You kind o' haf to mind Abel. It's sort o' grained in that man to hev folks disciple after
him. I made him promise he'd motion from the fence if he see I could help any, an' then I se'
down under that big tree down there. I was tremblin' some, I know. It always seems like wrecks
are somethin' that happen in other states an' in the dark. But when one's on ground that you
know like a book an' was brought up on,--when it's in the daylight, right by a pasture you've
been acrost always an' where you've walked the ties,--well, I s'pose it's the same feelin'
as when a man you know cuts up a state's prison caper; seem's like he can't of, because you
knew him.

"Half the men o' Friendship run by me, seems though. The whole town'd been rousted up while
we was in the church talkin' heresy. An' up on the high place on the road there I see Zittelhof's
undertaking wagon, with the sunset showin' on its nickel rails. But not a woman run past me.
Ain't it funny how it's men that go to danger of rail an' fire an' water--but when it's nothin'
but birth an' dyin' natural, then it's for women to be there.

"When I'd got about ready to fly away, waitin' so, I see Abel at the fence. An' he didn't motion
to me, but he swung over the top an' come acrost the stubble, an' I see he hed somethin' in
his arms. I run to meet him, an' he run too, crooked, his feet turnin' over with him some in
the hard ground. The sky made his face sort o' bright; an' I see he'd got a child in his arms.

"He didn't give her to me. He stood her down side o' me--a little thing of five years old,
or six, with thick, straight hair an' big scairt eyes.

"'Is she hurt, Abel?' I says.

"'No, she ain't hurt none,' he answers me, 'an' they's about seventeen more of 'em, her age,
an' they ain't hurt, either. Their coach was standin' up on its legs all right. But the man
they was with, he's stone dead. Hit on the head, somehow. An',' Abel says, 'I'm goin' to throw
'em all over the fence to you.'

"The little girl jus' kep' still. An' when we took her by each hand, an' run back toward the
fence with her, her feet hardly touchin' the ground, she kep' up without a word, like all to
once she'd found out this is a world where the upside-down is consider'ble in use. An' I waited
with her, over there this side the cut, hearin' 'em farther down rippin' off fence rails so's
to let through what they hed to carry.

"Time after time Abel come scramblin' up the sand-bank, bringin' 'em two 't once--little girls
they was, all about the age o' the first one, none of 'em with hats or cloaks on; an' I took
'em in my arms an' set 'em down, an' took 'em in my arms an' set 'em down, till I was fair
movin' in a dream. They belonged, I see by their dress, to some kind of a home for the homeless,
an' I judged the man was takin' 'em somewheres, him that Abel said'd been killed. Some'd reach
out their arms to me over the fence--an' some was afraid an' hung back, but some'd just cling
to me an' not want to be set down. I can remember them the best.

"Abel, when he come with the last ones, he off with his coat like I with my ulster, an' as
well as we could we wrapped four or five of 'em up--one that was sickly, an' one little delicate
blonde, an' a little lame girl, an' the one--the others called her Mitsy--that'd come over
the fence first. An' by then half of 'em was beginnin' to cry some. An' the wind was like so
many knives.

"'Where shall we take 'em to, Abel?' I says, beside myself.

"'Take 'em?' he says. 'Take 'em into the church! Quick as you can. This wind is like death.
Stay with 'em till I come.'

"Somehow or other I got 'em acrost that pasture. When I look at the Pump pasture now, in afternoon
like this, or in Spring with vi'lets, or when a circus show's there, it don't seem to me it
could 'a' been the same place. I kep' 'em together the best I could--some of 'em beggin' for
'Mr. Middie--Mr. Middie,' the man, I judged, that was dead. An' finally we got up here in the
road, an' it was like the end o' pain to be able to fling open the church door an' marshal
'em through the entry into that great, big, warm room, with the two fires roarin'.

"I got 'em 'round the nearest stove an' rubbed their little hands an' tried not to scare 'em
to death with wantin' to love 'em; an' all the while, bad as I felt for 'em, I was glad an'
glad that it was me that could be there with 'em. They was twenty,--when I come to count 'em
so's to keep track,--twenty little girls with short, thick hair, or soft, short curls, an'
every one with something baby-like left to 'em. An' when we set on the floor round the stove,
the coals shone through the big open draft into their faces, an' they looked over their shoulders
to the dark creepin' up the room, an' they come closer 'round me--an' the closest-up ones snuggled.

"Well, o' course that was at first, when they was some dazed. But as fast as their blue little
hands was warm an' pink again, one or two of 'em begun to whimper, natural an' human, an' up
with their arm to their face, an' then begun to cry right out, an' some more joined in, an'
the rest pipes up, askin' for Mr. Middie. An' I thought, 'Sp'osin' they all cried an' what
if Abel Halsey stayed away hours.' I donno. I done my best too. Mebbe it's because I'm use'
to children with my heart an' not with my ways. Anyhow, most of 'em was cryin' prime when Abel
finally got there.

"When he come in, I see Abel's face was white an' dusty, an' he had his other coat off an'
gone too, an' his shirt-sleeves was some tore. But he comes runnin' up to them cryin' children
an' I wish't you could 'a' seen his smile--Abel's smile was always kind o' like his soul growin'
out of his face, rill thrifty.

"'Why, you little kiddies!' s'e, 'cryin' when you're all nice an' warm! Le's see now,' he says
grave. 'Anybody here know how to play Drop-the-handkerchief? If you do,' he tells 'em, 'stand
up quick!'

"They scrambled 'round like they was beetles an' you'd took up the stone. They was all up in
a minute, an' stopped cryin', too. With that he catches my handkerchief out o' my hand an'
flutters it over his head an' runs to the middle o' the room.

"'Come on!' he says. 'Hold o' hands--every one o' you hold o' hands. I'm goin' to drop the
handkerchief, an' you'd better hurry up.'

"That was talk they knew. They was after him in a secunt an' tears forgot,--them poor little
things,--laughin' an' hold o' hands, an' dancin' in a chain, an' standin' in a ring. An' when
he hed 'em like that, an' still, Abel begun runnin' 'round to drop the handkerchief; an' then
he turns to me.

"'Only two killed, thank God,' he says as he run; 'the conductor an' M-i-d-d-l-e-t-o-n,' he
spells it, an' motions to the children with the handkerchief so's I'd know who Middleton was.
'An' not a scrap o' paper on him,' he goes on, 'to tell what home he brought the children from
or where he's goin' with 'em. Their mileage was punched to the City--but we don't know where
they belong there, an' the conductor bein' gone too. The poor fellow that had 'em in charge
never knew what hurt him. Hit from overhead, he was, an' his skull crushed....'

"It was so dark in the church by then we could hardly see, but the children could keep track
o' the white handkerchief. He let it fall behind the little girl he'd brought me first,--Mitsy,--an'
she catches it up an' sort o' squeaks with the fun an' runs after him. An' while he doubles
an' turns,--

"'They've telegraphed ahead,' he says, 'to two or three places in the City. But even if we
hear right off, we can't get 'em out o' Friendship to-night. They'll hev to stay here. The
Commercial Travellers' Hotel an' the Depot House has both got all they can do for--some of
'em hurt pretty bad. They couldn't either hotel take 'em in....'

"Then he lets Mitsy catch him an' he ups with her on his shoulder an' run with her on his back,
his face lookin' out o' her blue, striped skirts.

"'We'll hev to house 'em right here in the church,' he says.

"'Here?' says I; 'here in the church?'

"'You know Friendship,' he says, hoppin' along. 'Not half a dozen houses could take in more'n
two extry, even if we hed the time to canvass. An' we ain't the time. They want their s-u-p-p-e-r
right now,' he spells it out, an' lit out nimble when Mitsy dropped the handkerchief back o'
the little blond girl. Then he let the little blond girl catch them, and he took her on his
shoulders too, an' they was both shoutin' so 't he hed to make little circles out to get where
I could hear him.

"'I've seen Zittelhof,' he told me. 'He was down there with his wagon. He'll bring up enough
little canvas cots from the store. An' I thought mebbe you'd go down to the village an' pick
up some stuff they'll need--bedding an' things. An' get the women here with some supper. Come
on now,' he calls out to 'em; 'everybody in a procession an' sing!'

"He led 'em off with

    "'King William was King James's son,'

an' he sings back to me, for the secunt line,

    "'Go now, go quick, I bet they're starved!'

"So I got into my coat, tryin' to think where I should go to be sure o' not wastin' time talkin'.
Lots o' folks in this world is willin', but mighty few can be quick.

"I knew right off, though, where I'd find somebody to help. The Friendship Married Ladies'
Cemetery Improvement Sodality was meetin' that afternoon with Mis' Toplady, an' I could cut
acrost their pasture--" Calliope nodded toward the little Toplady house and the big Toplady
barn--"an' that's what I done. An' when I got near enough to the house to tell, I see by the
light in the parlour that they was still there. An' I know when I got into the room, full as
I was o' news o' them little children an' the wreck an' the two killed an' all them that was
hurt--there was the Sodality settlin' whether the lamb's wool comforter for the bazaar should
be tied with pink for daintiness or brown for durability.

"'Dainty!' says I, when I got my breath. 'They's sides to life makes me want to pinch that
word right out o' the dictionary same as I would a bug,' I says.

"That was funny, too,"--Calliope added thoughtfully, "because I like that word, speakin' o'
food an' ways to do things. But some folks get to livin' the word same's if it was the law.

"I guess they thought I was crazy," she went on, "but I wasn't long makin' 'em understand.
An' I tell you, the way they took it made me love 'em all. If you want to love folks, just
you get in some kind o' respectable trouble in Friendship, an' you'll see so much lovableness
that the trouble'll kind o' spindle out an' leave nothin' but the love doin' business. My land,
the Sodality went at the situation head first, like it was somethin' to get acrost before dark.
An' so it was.

"I remember Mis' Photographer Sturgis: 'There!' she says, 'most cryin'. 'If ever I take only
a pint o' milk, I'm sure as sure to want more before the day's out. None of us is on good terms
with each other's milkman. Where we goin' to get the milk,' she says, 'for them poor little
things?'

"'Where?' says Mis' Toplady--you know how big an' comfortable an' settled she is--'Where? Well,
you needn't to think o' where. I expect the Jersey won't be milked till I go an' milk her,'
she says, 'but she gives six quarts, nights, right along now, an' sometimes seven. Now about
the bread.'

"Mis' Postmaster Sykes use' to set sponge twice a week, an' she offered five loaves out o'
her six baked that day. Mis' Holcomb had two loaves o' brown bread an' a crock o' sour cream
cookies. An' Libbie Liberty bursts out that they'd got up their courage an' killed an' boiled
two o' their chickens the day before an' none o' the girls'd been able to touch a mouthful,
bein' they'd raised the hens from egg to axe. Libbie said she'd bring the whole kettle along,
an' it could be het on the church stove an' made soup of. So it went on, down to even Liddy
Ember, that was my partner an' silly poor, an' in about four minutes everything was provided
for, beddin' an' all.

"Mis' Toplady had flew upstairs, gettin' out the linen, an' she was comin' down the front stairs
with her arms full o' sheets an' pillow slips when through the front door walks Timothy Toplady,
come in all excited an' lookin' every which way. Seems he'd barked his elbow in the rescue
work an' laid off for liniment.

"'Oh, Timothy,' says his wife, 'them poor little children. We've been plannin' it all out.'

"'Who's goin' to take 'em in?' says Timothy, tryin' to roll up his overcoat sleeve for fear
the Sodality'd be put to the blush if he got to his elbow any other way.

"'They're all warm in the church,' Mis' Toplady says; 'we're goin' to leave 'em there. Zittelhof's
goin' to take up canvas cots. We're gettin' the bedding together,' she told him.

"Timothy looked up, sort o' wild an' glazed.

"'Canvas cots,' s'e, 'in the house o' the Lord?'

"'Why, Timothy,' says his wife, helpless, 'it's all warm there now, an' we don't know what
else. We thought we'd carry up their supper to 'em--'

"'Supper,' says Timothy, 'in the house o' the Lord?'

"Then Mis' Toplady spunks up some.

"'Why, yes,' she says; 'I'm goin' to milk the Jersey an' take up the two pails.'

"Timothy waves his barked arm in the air.

"'Never!' s'e. 'Never. We elders'll never consent to that, not in this world!'

"At that we all stood around sort o' pinned to the air. This hadn't occurred to nobody. But
his wife was back at him, rill crispy.

"'Timothy Toplady,' s'she, 'they use churches for horspitals an' refuges,' she says.

"'They do,' says Timothy, solemn, 'they do, in necessity, an' war, an' siege. But here's the
whole o' Friendship Village to take these children in, an' it's sacrilege to use the house
o' God for any purpose whatever while it's waitin' its dedication. It's stealin', he says,
'from the Lord Most High.'

"I never see anybody more het up. We all tried to tell him. Nobody in Friendship has a warm
spare room in winter, without it's the Proudfits, an' they was in Europe an' their house locked.
Mebbe six of us, we counted up afterwards, could 'a' took in two children to sleep in a cold
room, or one child to sleep with some one o' the family. But as Abel said, where was the time
to canvass round? An' what could we do with the other little things? But Timothy wouldn't listen
to nothin'.

"'Amanda,' s'e in a married voice, 'what I say is this, I forbid you to carry a drop o' Jersey
milk or any other kind o' milk up to that church.'

"With that he was out the front door an' liniment forgot.

"Mis' Sykes spatted her hands.

"'He'll find Silas Sykes an' Eppleby,' she says to Mis' Holcomb. 'Quick. Le's us get our hands
on my bread an' your cookies. Them poor little things--'way past their supper hour.'

"'An' none of 'em got mothers,' says Mis' Sturgis, 'just left 'round with lockets on, I sp'ose,
an' wrecked an' hungry....'

"'An' one o' 'em lame,' Mame Holcomb puts in, down on her knees tryin' to sort out her overshoes.
The Sodality never could tell its own overshoes.

"Well, they scattered so quick it made you think o' mulberry leaves, some years, in the first
frost--an' I was left alone with Mis' Toplady.

"'Here,' she says to me then, all squintin' with firmness, 'you take along all the linen an'
comfortables you can lug. Timothy didn't mention them. An' leave the rest to me.'

"I went over that in my mind while I stumbled along back to the church, loaded down. But I
couldn't make much out of it. I knew Timothy Toplady: that he was meek till he turned an' then
it was look out. An' I knew, too, that Timothy could run Silas Sykes, the postmaster's political
strength, like you've noticed, makin' him kind o' wobbled in his own judgment of other things.
I didn't know how Eppleby Holcomb'd be--it might turn out to be one o' the things he'd up an'
question, civilized, but I wa'n't sure. Anyhow, the cream cookies an' the two loaves wasn't
so vital as them five loaves o' bread.

"When I got back to the church, here it was all lit up. Abel had lit the chandelier on a secular
scene! Bless 'em, it surely was secular, though, accordin' to my lights, it was some sacred
too. Six or seven of the little things was buildin' a palace out o' the split wood, with the
little lame girl for queen. The little blonde an' the one that was rill delicate lookin' had
gone to sleep by the stove on Abel's overcoat. Mitsy, she run from somewheres an' grabbed my
hand. An' Abel had the rest over by the other stove tellin' 'em stories. I heard him say dragon,
an' blue velvet, an' golden hair.

"I hadn't more'n got inside the door before Zittelhof's wagon come with the cots. An' Mis'
Zittelhof was with him, her arms full o' bedclothes she'd gathered up around from folks. I
never said a word to Abel about the trouble with Timothy. I donno if Abel rilly heard us come
in, he was so excited about his dragon. An' Mis' Zittelhof an' I began makin' up the cots.
On the first one I laid the two babies that was asleep on the floor. They never woke up. Their
little cheeks was warm an' pink, an' one of 'em had some tears on it. When I see that, I clear
forgot the church wasn't dedicated, an' I thanked God they was there, safe an' by a good fire,
with somebody 'tendin' to 'em.

"The bed-makin' an' the story-tellin' an' the palace-buildin' went on, an' I kep' gettin' exciteder
every minute. When the door opened, I couldn't tell which was in my mouth, my heart or my tongue.
But it was only Libbie Liberty with the big iron kettle o' chicken broth an' a basket o' cups
an' spoons. She se' down the kettle on the stove an' stirred up the fire under it, an' it was
no time before the whole church begun to smell savoury as a kitchen. An' then in walks Mis'
Holcomb with her brown bread an' cream cookies. An' we fair jumped up an' down when Mis' Sykes
come breathin' in the door with them five loaves o' wheat bread safe, an' butter to match.

"Still, we was without milk. There wasn't a sign o' Mis' Toplady. An' any minute Timothy might
get there with Silas in tow. Mis' Sykes was nervous as a witch over it, an' it was her proposed
we set the children up on the cots an' begin' feedin' 'em right away. I run down the room to
tell Abel, an' then I hed to tell him why we'd best hurry.

"Abel laughs a little when he heard about it.

"'Dear old Timothy,' he says, 'servin' his God accordin' to the dictates of his own notions.
Wait a minute till I release the princess.'

"When he said that, I was afraid he must be telling a worldly story with royalty in. An' I
begun to get troubled myself. But I heard him end it: 'So the Princess found her kingdom because
she learnt to love every living thing. She saved the lives of the hare an' the goldfinch. An'
don't you ever let any living thing suffer one minute and maybe you'll find out some of the
things the Princess knew.' An', royalty or not, I felt all right about Abel's story-telling
after that.

"Then we all brisked round an' begun settin' the children up on the cots--two or three to a
cot, with one of us to wait on 'em. An' both the little sleepy ones woke up, too. An' when
we sliced an' spread the bread an' dished the hot chicken broth an' see how hungry they all
seemed, I declare if one of us could feel wicked. The little things'd begun to talk some by
then, an' they chatted soft an' looked up at us, an' that little Mitsy--she'd got so she'd
kiss me every time I'd ask her. An' I was perfectly shameless. I donno's the poor little thing
got enough to eat. But sometimes when things go blue--I like to think about that. I guess we
was all the same. Our principal feelin' was how dear they was, an' to hurry up before Timothy
Toplady got there, an' how we wish't we hed more milk.

"Then all of a sudden while we was flyin' round, I happened to go past the front door, an'
I heard a noise in the entry. I thought o' Timothy an' Silas, comin' with sheriffs an' firearms
an' I didn't know what--Silas havin' politics back of him, so; an' I rec'lect I planned, wild
an' contradictory, first about callin' an instantaneous congregational meetin' to decide which
was right, an' then about telegraphin' to the City for constituted authority to do as we was
doin', an' then about Abel fightin' Timothy an' Silas both, if it come rilly necessary.

"I got hold o' Mis' Sykes an' Mame Holcomb, an' told 'em quiet. 'Somethin's the matter outside
there,' I says to 'em, kind o' warnin', 'an' I thought you two'd ought to know it.' An' we
all three come 'round by the entry door, careless, an listened. An' the noise kep' up, kind
o' soft an' obstinate, an' we couldn't make it out.

"'We'd best go out there an' see,' says Mis' Sykes, low; 'the dear land knows what men will do.'

"So we watched our chance an' slipped out--an' I guess, for all our high ways, we was all three
wonderin' inside, was we rilly doin' right. You know your doubts come thick when there's a
noise in the entry. But Mis' Sykes acted as brave as two, an' it was her shut the door to behind
us.

"An' there, right by that stone just outside the entry o' the church, set Mis' Timothy Toplady,
milkin' her Jersey cow.

"We could just see her, dim, by the light o' the transom. She was on the secunt pail, an' that
was two-thirds full. She hed her back toward us, an' she didn't hear us. She set all wrapped
up in a shawl, a basket o' cups side of her, an' the Jersey standin' there, quiet an' demure.
An' beyond, in the cut an' movin' acrost the Pump pasture, it was thick with lanterns.

"But before we three'd hed time to burst out like we wanted to, we sort o' scrooched back again.
Because on the other side o' the cow we heard Timothy Toplady's voice. He'd just got there,
some breathless, an' with him, we see, was Eppleby.

"'Amanda,' says Timothy, 'what in the Dominion o' Canady air you doin'?'

"'I shouldn't think you would know,' says Mis' Toplady, short. 'You don't do enough of it.'

"She hed him there. Timothy always will go down to the Dick Dasher an' shirk the chores.

"'Amanda,' says Timothy, 'you've disobeyed me flat-footed.'

"'No such thing,' s'she, milkin' away like mad for fear he'd use force; 'I ain't carried a
drop o' milk here. I've drove it,' she says.

"Timothy groaned.

"'Milkin' in the church,' he says.

"'No, sir,' says Amanda, back at him; 'I'm outside on the sod, an' you know it.'

"An' then my hopes sort o' riz, because I thought I heard Eppleby Holcomb laugh soft--sort
of a half-an'-half chuckle. Like he'd looked under the situation an' see it wasn't alike on
both sides. An' 't the same time Mis' Toplady, she changed her way, an',--

"'Timothy,' s'she, 'you hungry?'

"'I'm nigh starved,' says Timothy. 'It must be eight o'clock,' s'e, 'but I ain't the heart
to think o' that.'

"'No,' s'she, 'so you ain't. Not with them poor babies in there hungrier'n you be an' nowheres
to go.'

"With that she got done milkin' an' stood up an' picked up her two pails--we could smell the
sweet, warm milk from where we was.

"'Timothy,' s'she, 'the worst sacrilege that's done in this world is when folks turns their
backs on any little bit of a chance that the Lord gives 'em to do good in, like He told 'em.
Who was it, I'd like to know, said, "Suffer little children"? Who was it said, "Feed my lambs"?
No "when" or "where" about that. Just do it. An' no occasion to hem an' haw about it, either.
The least you can do for your share in this, as I see it, is to keep your silence and drive
the cow back home. The oven's full o' bake' sweet potatoes an' they must be just nearin' done.'

"I see Timothy start to wave his arms an' I donno what he would 'a' said if it hadn't been
settled for 'im. For then, like it was right out o' the sky, the church organ begun to play
soft. For a minute we all looked up, like the Shepherds must of when the voices of the night
told 'em the spirit o' God was in the world, born in a little child. It was Abel,--I knew right
away it was Abel,--an' he was just gentlin' round soft on the keys, kind o' like he was askin'
a blessin' an' rockin' a cradle an' doin' all the little nice things music can. An' with that
Mis' Sykes, she throws open the church door.

"I'll never forget how it looked inside--all warm an' lamp-lit an' with them little things
bein' fed an' chatterin' soft. An' up in the loft set Abel, playin' away on the foreign organ
before it'd been dedicated. An' then he begun singin' low--an' there's somethin' about Abel
't you just haf to listen, whatever he says or does. Even Timothy hed to listen--though I think
he was some struck dumb, too, an' that kep' him controlled for a minute--like it will. An'
Abel sung:--

    "'The Lord is my Shepherd--I shall not want.
    He maketh me to lie down in green pastures,
    He leadeth me--He leadeth me beside the still waters.
    He restoreth my soul....'

"An' at the first line, before we'd rilly sensed what it was he said, every one o' them little
children in the midst o' their supper slips off the edge o' the cots an' kneeled down there
on the bare floor, just like they'd been told to. Oh, wasn't it wonderful? An' yet it wasn't--it
wasn't. We found out, when folks come for 'em the next mornin', it was the children's prayer
that they sung every day o' their lives at their Good Shepherd's Orphans' Home--soft an' out
o' tune an' with all their little hearts, just as they went ahead an' sung it with Abel, clear
to the end. I guess they didn't know everybody don't kneel down all over the world when they
hear the Twenty-third Psalm.

"Abel seen 'em in the little lookin'-glass over the keyboard. An' when he'd got done he set
there perfectly still with his head down. An' Mis' Sykes an' Mis' Holcomb an' Eppleby an' I
bowed our heads too, out there in the entry. An' so, after a minute, did Timothy. I couldn't
help peekin' to see.

"An' then, when the children was all a-rustlin' up, Mis' Toplady she jus' hands her two pails
o' milk over to Timothy.

"'You take 'em in,' she says to him, her eyes swimmin'. 'I've come off without my handkerchief.'

"Timothy looks round him, kind o' helpless, but Eppleby stood there an' pats him on the arm.

"'Go in--go in, brother,' Eppleby says gentle. 'I guess the church's been dedicated. I feel
like we'd heard the big wind--an' I guess, mebbe, the Pentecostal tongues.'

"An' Timothy--he's an awful tender-hearted man in spite o' bein' so notional--Timothy just
went on in with the milk, without sayin' anything. An' Eppleby side of him. An' we 'most shut
the door on Silas Sykes, comin' tearin' up on account o' Timothy leavin' him urgent word to
come, without explainin' why. An' when Silas see the inside o' the church, all lit up an' chicken
supper for the children an' the other two elders there with the milk, he just rubs his hands
an' beams like he see his secunt term. I donno's it'd ever enter Silas Sykes's head't there
was anything wrong with anything, providin' somebody wasn't snappin' him up for it. I guess
it's like that in politics.

"We took the milk around an', bake' sweet potatoes forgot, Timothy stood up by the stove, between
Eppleby an' Silas, an' watched us--an' the Jersey must 'a' picked her way home alone. An' Abel,
he just set there to the organ, gentlin' 'round soft on the keys so it made me think o' God
movin' on the face o' the waters. An' movin' on the face of everything else too, dedicated
or not. It was like we'd felt the big wind, same as Eppleby said. An' somethin' in it kind
o' hid, secret an' holy."

VIII

THE GRANDMA LADIES

Two weeks before Christmas Friendship was thrown into a state of holiday delight. Mrs. Proudfit
and her daughter, Miss Clementina, issued invitations to a reception to be given on Christmas
Eve at Proudfit House, on Friendship Hill. The Proudfits, who had rarely entertained since
Miss Linda went away, lived in Europe and New York and spent little time in the village, but,
for all that, they remained citizens in absence, and Friendship always wrote out invitations
for them whenever it gave "companies." The invitations the postmaster duly forwarded to some
Manhattan bank, though I think the village had a secret conviction that these were never received--"sent
out wild to a bank in the City, so." However, now that old courtesies were to be so magnificently
returned, every one believed and felt a greater respect for the whole financial world.

The invitations enclosed the card of Mrs. Nita Ordway, and the name sounded for me a note of
other days when, before my coming to Friendship Village, we two had, in the town, belonged
to one happy circle of friends.

"I thought at first mebbe the card'd got shoved in the envelope by mistake," said Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss.
"I know once I got a Christmas book from a cousin o' mine in the City, an' a strange man's
card fell out o' the leaves. I sent the card right straight back to her, an' Cousin Jane seemed
rill cut up, so I made up my mind I'd lay low about this card. But I hear everybody's got 'em.
I s'pose it's a sign that it's some Mis' Ordway's party too--only not enough hers to get her
name on the invite. Mebbe she chipped in on the expenses. Give a third, like enough."

However that was, Friendship looked on the Christmas party as on some unexpected door about
to open in its path, and it woke in the morning conscious of expectation before it could remember
what to expect. Proudfit House! A Christmas party! It touched every one as might some giant
Santa Claus, for grown-ups, with a pack of heart's-ease on his back.

When Mrs. Ordway arrived in the village, the excitement mounted. Mrs. Nita Ordway was the first
exquisitely beautiful woman of the great world whom Friendship had ever seen--"beautiful like
in the pictures of when noted folks was young," the village breathlessly summed her up. To
be sure, when she and her little daughter, Viola, rode out in the Proudfits' motor, nobody
in the street appeared to look at them. But Friendship knew when they rode, and when they walked,
and what they wore, and when they returned.

It was a happiness to me to see Mrs. Ordway again, and I sat often with her in the music room
at Proudfit House and listened to her glorious voice in just the songs that I love. Sometimes
she would send for her little Viola, so that I might sit with the child in my arms, for she
was one of those rare children who will let you love them.

"I like be made some 'tention to," Viola sometimes said shyly. She was not afraid, and she
would stay with me hour-long, as if she loved to be loved. She was like a little come-a-purpose
spirit, to let one pretend.

A day or two after the invitations had been received, I was in my guest room going over my
Christmas list. Just before Christmas I delight in the look of a guest room, for then the bed
is spread with a brave array of pretty things, and when one arranges and wraps them, the stitches
of rose and blue on flowered fabrics, the flutter of crisp ribbons, and the breath of sachets
make one glad. I was lingering at my task when I heard some one below, and I recognized her voice.

"Calliope!" I called gladly from the stairs, and bade her come up to me.

Calliope is one of the women in whose presence one can wrap one's Christmas gifts. She came
into the room, bringing a breath of Winter, and she laid aside her tan ulster and her round
straw hat, and straightway sat down on the rug by the open fire.

"Well said!" she cried contentedly, "a grate fire upstairs! It's one of the things that never
seems real to me, like a tower on a house. I'd as soon think o' havin' a grate fire up a tree
an' settin' there, as in my chamber. Anyway, when it comes Winter, upstairs in Friendship is
just a place where you go after something in the bureau draw' an' come down again as quick
as you can. I s'pose you got an invite to the party?"

"Yes," I said, "and you will go, Calliope?"

But instead of answering me:--

"My land!" she said, "think of it! A party like that, an' not a low-necked waist in town, nor
a swallow-tail! An' only two weeks to do anything in, an' only Liddy Ember for dressmaker,
an' it takes her two weeks to make a dress. I guess Mis' Postmaster Sykes has got her. They
say she read her invite in the post-office with one hand an' snapped up that tobacco-brown
net in the post-office store window with the other, an' out an' up to Liddy's an' hired her
before she was up from the breakfast table. So she gets the town new dress. Mis' Sykes is terrible
quick-moved."

"What will you wear, Calliope?" I asked.

"Me--I never wear anything but henriettas," she said. "I think the plainer-faced you are, the
simpler you'd ought to be dressed. I use' to fix up terrible ruffled, but when I see I was
reg'lar plain-faced I stuck to henriettas, mostly gray--"

"Calliope," I said resolutely, "you don't mean you're not going to the Proudfit party?"

She clasped her hands and held them, palms outward, over her mouth, and her eyes twinkled above
them.

"No, sir," she said, "I can't go. You'll laugh at me!" she defended. "Don't you tell!" she
warned. And finally she told me.

"Day before yesterday," she said, "I went into the City. An' I come out on the trolley. An'
I donno what possessed me,--I ain't done it for months,--but when we crossed the start of the
Plank Road, I got off an' went up an' visited the Old Ladies' Home. You know I've always thought,"
she broke off, "--well, you know I ain't a rill lot to do with, an' I always had an i-dee that
mebbe sometime, when I got older, I might--"

I nodded, and she went on.

"Well, I walked around among 'em up there--canary birds an' plants an' footstools--an' the
whole thing fixed up so cheerful that it's pitiful. Red wall-paper an' flowered curtains an'
such, all fair yellin' at you, 'We're cheerful--cheerful--cheerful!' till I like to run. An'
it come over me, bein' so near Christmas an' all, what would they do on Christmas? So I asked
a woman in a navy-blue dress, seein' she flipped around like she was the flag o' the place.

"'The south corridor,' she answers,--them's the highest payin"--Calliope threw in, "'chipped
in an' got up a tree, an' there's gifts for all,' s'she. 'The west corridor'--them's the local
city ones--'all has friends to take 'em away for the day. The east corridor'--they're from
farther away an' middlin' well-to-do--'all has boxes comin' to 'em from off. But the north
corridor,' s'she, scowlin' some, 'is rather a trial to us.'

"An' I was waitin' for that. The north corridor is all charity old ladies, paid for out o'
the fund; an' the president o' the home has just died, an' the secretary's in the old country
on a pleasure trip, an' the board's in a row over the policy o' the home, an' the navy-blue
matron dassent act, an' altogether it looked like the north corridor was goin' to get a regular
mid-week Wednesday instead of a Christmas. An' I up an' ast' her to take me down to see 'em."

It was easy to see what Calliope had done, I thought: she had promised to spend Christmas Eve
over there in the north corridor, reading aloud.

"They was nine of 'em," she went on, "nice old grandma ladies, with hands that looked like
they'd ought to 'a' been tyin' little aprons an' cuttin' out cookies an' squeezin' somebody
else's hand. There they set, with the wall-paper doin' its cheerfulest, loud as an insult,--one
of 'em with lots o' white hair, one of 'em singin' a little, some of 'em tryin' to sew or knit
some. My land!" said Calliope, "when we think of 'em sittin' up an' down the world--with their
arms all empty--an' Christmas comin' on--ain't it a wonder--Well, I stayed 'round an' talked
to 'em," she went on, "while the navy-blue lady whisked her starched skirts some. She seemed
too busy 'tendin' to 'em to give 'em much attention. An' they looked rill pleased when I talked
to 'em about their patchwork an' knittin', an' did they get the sun all day, an' didn't the
canary sort o' shave somethin' off'n the human ear-drum, on his tiptop notes? An' when I said
that, Grandma Holly--her with lots o' white hair--says:--

"'I donno but it does,' she says, 'but I don't mind; I'm so thankful to see somethin' around
that's little an' young.'

"That sort o' landed in my heart. It's just what I'd been thinkin' about 'em.

"'Little, young things,' s'I, sort o' careless, 'make a lot o' racket, you know.'

"At that old Mis' Burney pipes up--her that brought up her daughter's children an' her son-in-law
married again an' turned her out:--

"'I use' to think so,' she says quiet; 'the noise o' the children use' to bother me terrible.
When they reely got to goin' I use' to think I couldn't stand it, my head hurt me so. But now,'
s'she, 'I get to thinkin' sometimes I wouldn't mind a horse-fiddle if some of 'em played it.'

"'They're lots o' company, the little things,' says old Mis' Norris--she'd kep' mislayin' her
teeth an' the navy-blue lady had took 'em away from her that day for to teach her, so I couldn't
hardly understand what she said. 'Mine was named Ellen an' Nancy,' I made out.

"'Some o' you remember my Sam,'--Mis' Ailing speaks up then, an' she begun windin' up her yarn
an' never noticed she was ravellin' out her mitten,--'he was an alderman,' she was goin' on,
but old Mis' Winslow cuts in on her:--

"'It don't matter what he was when he was man-grown,' s'she. 'Man-grown can get along themselves.
It's when they're little bits o' ones,' she says.

"'Little!' says Grandma Holly. 'Is it little you mean? Well, my Amy's two little feet use'
to be swallowed up in my hand--so,' she says, shuttin' her hand over to show us.

"Well, so they went on. I give you my word I stood there sort o' grippin' up on my elbows.
I'd always known it was so--like you do know things are so. But somehow when you come to feel
they're so, that's another thing. And I was feelin' this in my throat 'bout as big as an orange.
I'd thought their hands looked like they'd ought to be tyin' up little aprons, but I never
thought o' the hands bein' rill lonesome to do the tyin', an' thinkin' about it, too. An' now
I understood 'em like I see 'em for the first time, rill face to face. Somehow, we ain't any
too apt to look at people that way," said Calliope. "You see how I mean it.

"Then comes the navy-blue woman an' says it's time for their hot milk, an' they all looked
up, kind o' hopeful. An' I see that the navy-blue one had got 'em trained into the i-dee that
hot milk was an event. She didn't like to hev 'em talk much about the past, she told me, when
she see what we was speakin' of, because it gener'lly made some of 'em cry, an' the i-dee was
to keep the spirit of the home bright an' cheerful. 'So I see,' s'I, dry. An' there was Christmas
comin' on, an' nothin' to break the general cheerfulness but hot milk. "Well," Calliope said,
"I s'pose you'll think I'm terrible foolish, but I couldn't help what I done--"

"I don't wonder at it," said I, warmly; "you promised to spend Christmas Eve with them and
read aloud to them, didn't you, Calliope?"

"No!" Calliope cried; "I didn't do that. I should think they'd be sick to death o' bein' read
aloud to. I should think they'd be sick to death bein' cheered up by their surroundin's. No--I
invited the whole nine of 'em to come over an' spend Christmas Eve with me."

"Calliope!" I cried, "but how--"

"I know it," she exclaimed, "I know it. But they're all well an' hardy. The charity corridor
ain't expected in the infirmary much. An' Jimmy Sturgis is goin' to bring 'em over free in
the closed 'bus--I'll fill it with hot bricks an' hot flat-irons an' bed-quilts. An' my land!
you'd ought to see 'em when I ask' 'em. I don't s'pose they'd had an invite out in years. The
navy-blue lady looked like I'd nipped a mountain off'n her shoulders, too. An' now," said Calliope,
"what on top o' this earth will I do with 'em when I get 'em here?"

What indeed? I left my task and sat by her on the rug before the fire, and we talked it over.
But all the while we talked, I could see that she was keeping something back--some plan of
which she was doubtful.

"I ain't no money to spend, you know," she said, "an' I won't let anybody else spend any for
me, for this. Folks has plans enough o' their own without mine. But I kep' sayin' to myself,
all the way home when my knees give down at the i-dee of what I was goin' to do: 'Calliope,
the Lord says, "Give." An' He meant you to give, same's those that hev got. He didn't say,
"Everybody give but Calliope, an' she ain't got much, so she'd ought to be let off." He said,
"Give."' An' He didn't mention all nice things, same's I'd like to give, an' most everybody
does give--" she nodded toward my bed, brave with its Christmas array. "He didn't mention givin'
things at all. An' so," said Calliope, "I thought o' somethin' else."

She sat with brooding eyes on the fire, her hands clasped about her knees.

"The Lord Christ," said Calliope, "didn't hev nothin' of His own. An' yet He just give an'
give an' give. An' somehow I got the i-dee," she finished, glancing up at me shyly, "that mebbe
Christmas ain't really all in your stocking foot, after all. I ain't much to spend, and mebbe
that sounds some like sour grapes. But it seems like a good many beautiful things is free to
all, an' that they's ways to do. Well, I've thought of a way--"

"Calliope," I said, "tell me what you have really planned for the old-lady party. You have
planned?"

"Well, yes," she said, "I hev. But mebbe you'll think it ain't anything. First I thought o'
tea, an' thin bread-an'-butter sandwiches--it seems some like a party when you get your bread
thin. An' I've got apples in the house we could roast, an' corn to pop over the kitchen fire.
But then I come to a stop. For I ain't nothin' else, an' I've spent every cent I can spend
a'ready. But yet I did want to show 'em somethin' lovely--an' differ'nt from what they see,
so's it'd seem as if somebody cared, an' as if they'd been in Christmas, too. An' all of a
sudden it come to me, why not invite in a few little children o' somebody's here in Friendship?
So's them old grandma ladies--"

She shook her head and turned away.

"I expec'," she said, "you think I'm terrible foolish. But wouldn't that be givin', don't you
think? Would that be anything?"

I have planned, as will fall to us all, many happy ways of keeping festival; but I think that
never, even in days when I myself was happiest, have I so delighted in any event as in this
of Calliope's proposing.

With the days the plans for the Proudfit party--or rather the plans of the Proudfit guests--went
merrily forward. It was, they said, like "in the Oldmoxon days," when the house in which I
was now living had been the Friendship fairyland. Some take their parties solemnly, some joyously,
some feverishly; but Friendship takes them vitally, as it takes a project or the breath of
being. Like the rest of the world, the village sank Christmas in festivity. It could not see
Christmas for the Christmas plans.

Speculation was the delight of meetings, and every one conspired in terms of toilettes.

"Likely," said Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, "Mis' Banker Mason'll wear her black-an'-white
foulard. Them foulards are wonderful durable--you can't muss 'em. She got hers when Gramma
Mason first hurt her back, so's if anything happened she'd be part mournin', an' if anything
didn't, she'd have a nice dress to wear out places. Ain't it real convenient,--white standin'
for both companies an' the tomb, so?"

And "Mis' Photographer Sturgis has the best of it, bein' an invalid, till a party comes up,"
said Libbie Liberty. "She gets plenty enough food sent in, an' flowers, an' such things, an'
she's got nails hung full o' what I call sympathy clo'es, to wear durin' sympathy calls. But
when it comes to a real what you might say dress-up dress, I guess she'll hev to be took worse
with her side an' stay in the house."

Abigail Arnold contributed:--

"Seems Mis' Doctor Helman had a whole wine silk dress put away with her dyin' things. She always
thought it sounded terrible fine to hear about the dead havin' dress-pattern after dress-pattern
laid away that hadn't never been made up. So she'd got together the one, but now she an' Elzabella
are goin' to work an' make it up. I guess Mis' Helman thinks her stomach is so much better
't mebbe she'll be spared till after the holidays when the sales begin."

Even Liddy Ember had promised to go and to take Ellen, and Ellen went up and down the winter
streets singing sane little songs about the party, save on days when she "come herself again,"
and then she planned, as wildly as anybody, what she meant to wear. And Liddy, whose dream
had always been to do "reg'lar city dress-makin', with helpers an' plates an' furnish the findin's
at the shop," and whose lot instead had been to cut and fit "just the durable kind," was blithely
at work night and day on Mis' Postmaster Sykes's tobacco-brown net. We understood that there
were to be brown velvet butterflies stitched down the skirt, and if her Lady Washington geranium
flowered in time,--Mis' Sykes was said to lay bread and milk nightly about the roots to encourage
it,--she was to wear the blossom in her hair. ("She'll be gettin' herself talked about, wearin'
a wreath o' flowers on her head, so," said some.) But then, Mis' Sykes was recognized to be
"one that picks her own steps."

"Mis' Sykes always dresses for company accordin' to the way she gets her invite," Calliope
observed. "A telephone invite, she goes in somethin' she'd wear home afternoons. Word o' mouth
at the front door, she wears what she wears on Sundays. Written invites, she rags out in her
rill best dress, for parties. But engraved," Calliope mounted to her climax, "a bran' new dress
an' a wreath in her hair is the least she'll stop at."

But I think that, in the wish to do honour to so distinguished an occasion, the temper of Mis'
Sykes, and perhaps of Ellen Ember too, was the secret temper of all the village.

IX

"NOT AS THE WORLD GIVETH"

I daresay that excitement followed excitement when news of Calliope's party got abroad. But
of this I knew little, for I spent those next days at the Proudfits' with Nita Ordway and little
Viola, and though I thought often of Calliope, I chanced not to see her again until the holidays
were almost upon us. In the late afternoon, two days before Christmas, I dropped in at her
cottage to learn how pleasantly the plans for her party matured.

To my amazement I found her all dejection.

"Why, Calliope," I said, "can't the grandma ladies come, after all?"

Yes, they could come; they were coming.

"You are never sorry you asked them?" I pressed her.

No. Oh, no; she was glad she had asked them.

"Something is wrong, though," I said sadly--thinking what a blessed thing it is to be so joyous
a spirit that one's dejections are bound to be taken seriously.

"Well," said Calliope, then, "it's the children. No it ain't, it's Friendship. The town's about
as broad as a broom straw an' most as deep. Anything differ'nt scares 'em like something wore
out'd ought to. Friendship's got an i-dee that Christmas begins in a stocking an' ends off
in a candle. It thinks the rest o' the days are reg'lar, self-respecting days, but it looks
on Christmas like an extry thing, thrown in to please 'em. It acts as if the rest o' the year
was plain cake an' the holidays was the frostin' to be et, an' everybody grab the best themselves,
give or take."

"Calliope!" I cried--for this was as if the moon had objected to the heavens.

"Oh, I know I'd ought not to," she said sadly; "but don't folks act as if time was give to
'em to run around wild with, as best suits 'em? Three hundred an' 'leven days a year to use
for themselves, an' Sundays an' Christmas an' Thanksgivin' to give away looks to me a rill
fair division. But, no. Some folks act like Sundays an' holidays was not only the frostin',
but the nuts an' candy an' ice-cream o' things--their ice-cream, to eat an' pass to their own,
an' scrape the freezer."

And then came the heart of the matter.

"'T seems," said Calliope, "there's that children's Christmas tree at the new minister's on
Christmas Eve. But that ain't till ha'-past seven, an' I done my best to hev some o' the children
stop in here on their way, for my little party. An' with one set o' lungs their mas says no,
they'd get mussed for the tree if they do. I offered to hev 'em bring their white dresses pinned
in papers, an' we'd dress 'em here--I think the grandma ladies'd like that. But their mas says
no, pinned in papers'd take the starch out an' their hair'd get all over their heads. An' some
o' the mothers says indignant: 'Old ladies from the poorhouse end o' the home--well, I should
think not! Children is very easy to take things. If you'd hed young o' your own, you'd think
more, Calliope,' they says witherin'."

Her little wrinkled hands were trembling at the enormity.

"I donno," she added, "but I was foolish to try it. But I did want to get a-hold o' somethin'
beautiful for them old ladies to see. An', my mind, they ain't much so rilly lovely as little
young children, together in a room."

"But, Calliope," I said in distress, "isn't there even one child you can get?"

"No, sir," she said. "Not a one. I been everywhere. You know they ain't any poor in Friendship.
We're all comfortable enough off to be overparticular."

"But wouldn't you think," I said, "at Christmas time--"

"Yes, you would," Calliope said, "you would. You'd think Christmas'd make everything kind o'
softened up an' differ'nt. Every time I look at the holly myself, I feel like I'd just shook
hands with somebody cordial."

None the less--for Calliope had drunk deep of the wine of doing and she never gave up any project--at
four o'clock on the day before Christmas I saw the closed 'bus driven by Jimmy Sturgis fare
briskly past my house on its way to the "start of the Plank Road," to the Old Ladies' Home.
Within, I knew, were quilts and hot stones of Calliope's providing; and Jimmy had hung the
'bus windows with cedar, and two little flags fluttered from the door. It all had a merry,
holiday air as Jimmy shook the lines and drew on swiftly through the snow to those wistful
nine guests, who at last were to be "in Christmas," too.

"If they can't do nothin' else," Calliope had said, "they can talk over old times, without
hot milk interferin'. But I wish, an' I wish--seem's though there'd ought always to be a child
around on Star o' Bethlehem night, don't it?"

I dined alone that Star of Bethlehem night, and to dine alone under Christmas candles is never
a cheerful business. The Proudfit car was to come for me soon after eight, and at eight I stood
waiting at the window of my little living room, saying to myself that if I were to drop from
the air to a deserted country road, I should be certain that it was Christmas Eve. You can
tell Christmas Eve anywhere, like a sugar-plum, with your eyes shut. It is not the lighted
houses, or the close-curtained windows behind which Christmas trees are fruiting; nor yet,
in Friendship, will it be the post-office store or the home bakery windows, gay with Christmas
trappings. But there is in the world a subdued note of joyful preparation, as if some spirit
whom one never may see face to face had on this night a gift of perceptible life. And in spite
of my loneliness, my heart upleaped to the note of a distant sleigh-bell jingling an air of
"Home, going Home, Christmas Eve and going Home."

Then, when the big Proudfit car came flashing to my door, I had a sweet surprise. For from
it, through the snowy dark, came running a little fairy thing, and Viola Ordway danced to my
door with her mother, muffled in furs.

"We've been close in the house all day," Mrs. Ordway cried, "and now we've run away to get
you. Come!"

As for me, I took Viola in my arms and lifted her to my hall table and caught off her cloak
and hood. I can never resist doing this to a child. I love to see the little warm, plump body
in its fine white linen emerge rose-wise, from the calyx cloak; and I love that shy first gesture,
whatever it may be, of a child so emerging. The turning about, the freeing of soft hair from
the neck, the smoothing down of the frock, the half-abashed upward look. Viola did more. She
laid one hand on my cheek and held it so, looking at me quite gravely, as if that were some
secret sign of brotherhood in the unknown, which she remembered and I, alas! had forgotten.
But I perfectly remembered how to kiss her. If only, I thought, all the empty arms could know
a Viola. If only all the empty arms, up and down the world, could know a Viola even just at
Christmas time. If only--

Over the top of Viola's head I looked across at Nita Ordway, and a sudden joyous purpose lighted
all the air about me--as a joyous purpose will. Oh, if only--And then I heard myself pouring
out a marvellous jumble of sound and senselessness.

"Nita!" I cried, "you are not a Friendship Village mother! You are not afraid. Viola is not
going to the new minister's Christmas tree. Oh, don't you see? It's still early--surely we
have time! The grandma ladies must see Viola!"

I remember how Nita Ordway laughed, and her answer made me love her the more--as is the way
of some answers.

"I don't catch it--I don't," she said, "but it sounds delicious. All courage, and old ladies,
and ample time for everything! If I said, 'Of course,' would that do?"

Already I was tying Viola's hood, and next to taking off a child's hood I love putting one
on--surely every one will have noticed how their mouths bud up for kissing. While we sped along
the Plank Road toward Calliope's cottage, I poured out the story of who were at her house that
night, and why, and all that had befallen. In a moment the great car, devouring its own path
of light, set us down at Calliope's gate, and Calliope herself, trim in her gray henrietta,
her wrinkled face flushed and shining, came at our summons. And I pushed Viola in before us--little
fairy thing in a fluff of white wraps and white furs.

"Look, Calliope!" I cried.

Calliope looked down at her, and I think she can hardly have seen Mrs. Ordway and me at all.
She smote her hands softly together.

"Oh," she said, "if it isn't! Oh--a child for Star o' Bethlehem night, after all!"

She dropped to her knees before Viola, touching the little girl's hand almost shyly. There
was in Calliope's face when she looked at any child a kind of nakedness of the woman's soul;
and she, who was so deft, was curiously awkward in such a presence.

"They're out there in the dinin' room," she whispered, "settin' round the cook stove. I saw
they felt some better out there. Le's us leave her go out alone by herself, just the way she is."

And that was what we did. We said something to Viola softly about "the poor grandma ladies,
with no little girl to love," and then Calliope opened the door and let her through.

We peeped for a moment at the lamp-lit crack. The dining room was warm and bright, its table
covered with red cotton and set with tea-cups, shelves of plants blooming across the windows,
cedar green on the walls. The odour of pop-corn was in the air, and above an open griddle hole
apples bobbed on strings tied to the stove-pipe wing. And there about the cooking range, with
its cheery opened hearth, Calliope's Christmas guests were gathered.

They were exquisitely neat and trim, in black and brown cloth dresses, with a brooch, or a
white apron, or a geranium from a window plant worn for festival. I recognized Grandma Holly,
with her soft white hair, and I thought I could tell which were Mis' Ailing and Mis' Burney
and Mis' Norris. And the faces of them all, the gentle, the grief-marked, even the querulous,
were grown kindly with the knowledge that somebody had cared about their Christmas.

The child went toward them as simply as if they had been friends. They looked at her with some
murmuring of surprise, and at one another questioningly. Viola went straight to the knee of
Grandma Holly, who was nearest.

"'At lady tied my hood too tight," she referred unflatteringly to me, "p'eas do it off."

Grandma Holly looked down over her spectacles, and up at the other grandma ladies, and back
to Viola. The others gathered nearer, hitching forward rocking-chairs, rising to peer over
shoulders--breathlessly, with a manner of fearing to touch her. But because of the little uplifted
face, waiting, Grandma Holly must needs untie the white hood and reveal all the shining of
the child's hair.

"Nen do my toat off," Viola gravely directed.

At that Grandma Holly crooned some single indistinguishable syllable in her throat, and then
off came the cloak. The little warm, plump body in its fine linen emerged, rose-wise, and Viola
smoothed down her frock, and freed her hair from her neck, and glanced up shyly. By the stir
and flutter among them I understood that they were feeling just as I feel when a little hood
and cloak come off.

Viola stood still for a minute.

"I like be made some 'tention to," she suggested gently.

Ah--and they understood. How they understood! Grandma Holly swept the little girl in her arms,
and I know how the others closed about them with smiles and vague unimportant words. Viola
sat quietly and happily, like a little come-a-purpose spirit to let them pretend. And it was
with them all as if something long pent up went free.

Calliope left the door and turned toward us.

"Seems like my throat couldn't stand it," she said, ... and it seemed to me, as we three sat
together in the dim little parlor, that Nita Ordway must cherish Viola for us all--for the
grandma ladies and Calliope and me.

Half an hour later we three went out to the dining room. Viola ran to her mother when she entered.
Nita took her in her arms and sat beside the stove, her cloak slipping from her shoulders,
the soft peach tints of her gown shot through with shining lines and the light caught in her
collar of gems. "I did want to get a-hold o' somethin' beautiful for them old ladies to see,"
Calliope had said.

"Oh," said Grandma Holly, and she laid her brown hand on Viola's hand, "ain't she dear an'
little an' young?"

"I wish't she'd talk some," begged old Mis' Norris.

"Ain't she good, though, the little thing?" Mis' Ailing said. "Look at how still she sets.
Not wigglin' 'round same as some. It was just that way with Sam when he was small--he'd set
by the hour an' leave me hold him--"

A little bent creature, whose name I never learned, sat patting Viola's skirt.

"Seems like I'd gone back years," we heard her say.

Grandma Holly held up one half-closed hand.

"Like that," she told them, "my Amy's feet was so little I could hold 'em like that, an' I
see hers is the same way. She's wonderful like Amy was, her age."

I cannot recall half the sweet, trivial things that they said. But I remember how they told
us stories of their own babies, and we laughed with them over treasured sayings of long-ago
lips, or grieved with them over silences, or rejoiced at glad things that had been. Regardless
of the Proudfit party, we let them talk as they would, and remember. Then of her own accord
Nita Ordway hummed some haunting air, and sang one of the songs that we all loved--the grandma
ladies and Calliope and I. It was a sleepy song, whose words I have forgotten, but it was in
a kind of universal tongue which I think that no one can possibly mistake. And out of the lullaby
came all the little spirits, freed in babyhood or "man-grown," and stood at the knees of the
grandma ladies, so that I was afraid that they could not bear it.

When the song was done, Viola suddenly sat up very straight.

"I got a litty box," she announced, "an' I had a parasol. An' once a boy div me a new nail.
An' once I didn' feel berry well, but now I am. An' once--"

Their laughter was like a caress. Before it was done, we heard a stamping without, and there
was Jimmy Sturgis, with a spray of holly in his old felt hat and the closed 'bus at the door.

We helped Calliope to get their wraps and to fill the 'bus with hot stones from the oven and
with many quilts, and we made ready a basket of pop-corn and apples and of the cedar hung around
the little room. They stood about us to say good-by, or to tell us some last bit of the news
of their long-past youth--dear, wrinkled faces framed in broad lines of bonnet or hood, and
smiling, every one.

"This gray shawl I got on me is the very one I used to wrap Amy in to carry her through the
cold hall," said Grandma Holly. "My land-a-livin'! seems's if I'd been with her to-night, over
again!"

Their way of thanks lay among stumbling words and vague repetitions, but there was a kind of
glory in their grateful faces, and one always remembers that.

"Merry Prismas, gramma ladies!" Viola cried shrilly at the 'bus door, and within they laughed
like mothers as they answered. And Jimmy Sturgis cracked his whip, and the sleigh-bells jingled.

Nita Ordway and Viola and I stood for a moment with Calliope at her gate.

"Come!" we begged her, "now go with us. We are all late together. There is no reason why you
should not go with us to the Christmas party."

But Calliope shook her head.

"I'm ever so much obliged to you," she said, "but oh, I couldn't. I've hed too rilly a Christmas
to come down to a party anywheres."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Nita and Viola and I reached Proudfit House, the guests were all assembled, but we knew
that Mrs. Proudfit and Miss Clementina would be the first to forgive us when they understood.

The big colonial home was bright with scarlet-shaded candles and holly-hung walls; there was
mistletoe on the sconces, and in the great hall there were tuneful strings. On the landing
of the stairs stood Mrs. Proudfit and Miss Clementina, charmingly pretty in their delicate
frocks, and wholly gay and gracious. ("They seem lively like in pictures where folks don't
make a loud sound a-talkin'," said Friendship. "I s'pose it's somethin' you learn in the City.")
And Friendship wore its loyalty like a mantle. Twelve years had passed, and yet one and another
said under breath and sighed, "If only Miss Linda could 'a' been here, too."

All Friendship Village was there, save Abel Halsey, who was at the Good Shepherd's Home Christmas
tree in the City, and, perhaps one would say, Delia More, who had begged to be allowed to help
in the kitchen "an' be there that way." Even Peleg Bemus was in his place in the orchestra,
sitting with closed eyes, playing his flute, and keeping audible time with his wooden leg,--quite
as he did when he played his flute at night, on Friendship streets. And there was Mis' Postmaster
Sykes, in the tobacco-brown net, with butterflies stitched down the skirt and the Lady Washington
geranium in her hair--and forever near her went little Miss Liddy Ember with an almost passionate
creative pride in the gown of her hand, so that she would murmur her patron an occasional warning:
"Mis' Sykes, throw back your shoulders, you hev to, to bring out the real set o' the basque;"
or, "Don't forget you want to give a little hitch to the back when you stand up, Mis' Sykes."
And to one and another Liddy said proudly, "I declare if I didn't get that skirt with the butterflies
just like a magazine cover." And there, too, was Ellen Ember, wearing a white book muslin and
a rosy "nubia" that had been her mother's; and Ellen's face was uplifted, and of pale distinction
under the bronze glory of her hair, but all that evening she smiled and sang and wondered,
in utter absence of the spirit. ("Oh," poor Miss Liddy said, "I do so want Ellen to come herself
before supper. She won't remember a thing she eats, an' she don't have much that's tasty an'
good. It'll be just like she missed the whole thing, in spite of all the chore o' comin'.")
And there were Mis' Doctor Helman in her new wine silk; Mis' Banker Mason in the black-and-white
foulard designed to grace a festival or to respect a tomb; Mis' Sturgis, in a put-away dress
that was a surprise to every one; Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, and Eppleby, and the "Other"
Holcombs; Abigail Arnold, the Gekerjecks, Mis' Toplady and Timothy, even Mis' Mayor Uppers--no
one was forgotten. And--save poor Ellen--every one was aglow with the sweet satisfaction of
having sent abroad a brave array of pretty things, with stitches of rose and blue on flowered
fabrics, with the flutter of ribbons, and the breath of sachets, and with many a gift of substance
to those less generously endowed. To them all the delight of the season was in the gifts of
their hands and in the night's merry-making, and in the joy of keeping holiday. Here, as Calliope
had said, Christmas, begun in a stocking, was ending in a candle.

And yet it was Star of Bethlehem night, the night of Him who "didn't mention givin' things at all."

X

LONESOME.--I

Calliope and I were talking over the Proudfit party, as I had grown to like to talk over most
things with her, when I said something of two of the guests whom I did not remember before
to have seen: a little man of shy gravity and an extremely pretty girl who, if she looked at
any one but him, did so quite undetected.

"That's Eb Goodnight," Calliope replied, "him of the new-born spine. Wasn't it like the Proudfits
to ask them?"

And, at my question:

"Some folks," Calliope said, "has got spines and some folks hasn't. But what I say is, nobody
can tell which is which. Because now and then the soft-spine' kind just hardens up all in a
minute same as steel. So when I meet a stranger that sort o' sops along through life, limp
and floppy, I never judge him. I just say, 'You look some like a loose shutter, but mebbe you
can fair bang the house down, if you rilly get to blowin'.' It was that way with Eb Goodnight.

"I donno how it is other places. But I've noticed with us here in Friendship--an' I've grown
to the town from short dresses to bein'-careful-what-I-eat--I've often noticed't when folks
seems not to have any backbone to speak of, or even when they go 'round sort o' crazy--they's
usually some other reason, like enough. Sensitive or sick or lonesome, or like that. It was
so with Eb--an' it was so with Elspie. Elspie, though, was interestin' on account o' bein'
not only a little crazy, but rill pretty besides. But Eb, he was the kind that a sign-board
is more interestin' than. An' yet--"

With that she paused, looking down some way of her own thought. I knew Calliope's "an' yet."
It splendidly conceded the entire converse of her argument.

"Eb come here to Friendship," she went on, "less public than Elspie did. Elspie come official,
as an inmate o' the county house. Eb, he sort o' crep' in town, like he crep' everywhere else.
He introduced himself to me through sellin' needles. He walked in on me an' a two-weeks ironin'
one mornin' with, 'Lemme present myself as Ebenezer Goodnight, sewin' needles, knittin' needles,
crochet hooks an' shuttles an' anything o' that,' an' down he set an' never opened his mouth
about his needles again. Eb was real delicate, for an agent. He just talked all the time about
Friendship an' himself. 'The whol' blame' town's kin,' s'e; 'I never see such a place. Everybody's
kin, only just me. Air you,' he ask' me wistful, 'cousin' of 'em all, too?'

"'Mis' Sprague that's dead was connected up with me by marriage an' Mis' Sykes is my mother's
secunt cousin,' I owned up.'

"'That's it again,' s'e, sighin'. 'I'm the odd number, dum it,' he says sorrowful.

"Well, an' he hed sort of an odd-number way about him, too. He went along the street like he
didn't belong. I donno if you know what I mean, but he was always takin' in the tops o' buildin's
an' lookin' at the roads an' behavin' like he noticed--the way you don't when you live in a
town. Yes, Ebenezer Goodnight went around like he see things for the first time. An' somehow
he never could join in. When he walked up to a flock o' men, he stood side of 'em, an' not
with 'em. An' he shook hands sort o' loose an' temporary like he meant somethin' else. An'
he just couldn't bear not to agree with you. If he let out't the sky was blue an' you said,
No, pink, he'd work around till he'd dyed his sky pink, too. That man would agree to things
he never heard of. Let Peleg Bemus be tellin' one o' his eastern janitor adventures, an' Eb'd
set an' agree with him, past noddin' an' up to words, all about elevators an' Ferris boats
an' Eyetalians an' things he'd never laid look to. He seemed to hev a spine made mostly o'
molasses. An' sometimes I think your spine's your soul.

"Eb hed been lonelyin' 'round the village a month or so when Sum Merriman, that run the big
rival business to the post-office store, an' was fire chief besides, took him an' his peddler's
pack into the dry goods end--an' Eb was tickled. He went down first mornin' in his best clo'es,
a-wearin' both collar an' cuffs. But when somebody remarked on the clo'es, he didn't hev backbone
enough to keep on wearin' 'em--he slimpsed right back to his peddler duds an' done his best
to please. An' he did please--he made a rill first-rate merchant clear up till June o' the
year. An' then Sum Merriman, his employer, he went to work an' died.

"Sum died a Tuesday, an', bein' it never rains but it pours, an' piles peelin's on ashes, or
whatever it is they say, it was the Tuesday that the poorhouse burnt down--just like it knew
the fire chief was gone. The poorhouse use' to be across the track, beyond the cemetery an'
quite near my house. An' the night it burnt I was settin' on the side stoop without anything
over my head, just smellin' in the air, when I see a little pinky look on the sky beyond the
track. It wasn't moon-time, an' they wa'n't nothin' to bonfire that time o' year, an' I set
still, pretendin' it was rose-bushes makin' a ladder an' buildin' a way of escape by night.
It was such a nice evenin' you couldn't imagine anything rilly happenin' bad. But all at once
I heard the fire-engine bell poundin' away like all possessed--an' then runnin' feet, like
when they's an accident. I got to the gate just as somebody come rushin' past, an' I piped
up what was the matter. 'Poorhouse's afire,' s'e. 'Poorhouse,' s'I. 'My land!' An' I out the
gate an' run alongside of him, an' he sort o' slowed down for me, courteous.

"Then I noticed it was Eb Goodnight--lonelier'n ever now that his employer hed died that day.
I'd never see Eb hustle that much before, an' the thought went through my head, kind o' wonderin',
that he was runnin' as if the fire was a real relation o' his an' he was sent for. 'Know anything
else about it?' I ask' him, keepin' up. 'Not much,' s'e, 'but I guess it's got such a head-start
the whol' thing'll go like a shell.' An' when we got to the top o' the bank on the other side
o' the track, we see it was that way--the poorhouse'd got such a head-start burnin' that nothin'
could save it, though Timothy Toplady, that was town marshal an' chairman o' the county board,
an' Silas Sykes an' Eppleby Holcomb, that was managers o' the poorhouse, an' some more, went
puffin' past us, yellin', 'Put it out--run fer water--why don't you do suthin'?'--an' like
that, most beside theirselves.

"'Them poor critturs,' says I, 'oh, my, them poor critturs in the home'--for there must 'a'
ben twenty o' the county charges all quartered in the buildin'. An' when we come to the foot
o' the poorhouse hill, land, land, I never see such Bedlam.

"The fire had started so soon after dusk that the inmates was all up yet. An' they was half
of 'em huddled in a bunch by the side-yard stile an' half of 'em runnin' 'round wild as anything.
The whol' place looked like when you hev a bad dream. It made me weak in my knees, an' I was
winded anyway with runnin', an' I stopped an' leant up against a tree, an' Eb, he stopped too,
takin' bearin's. An' there I was, plump against Elspie, standin' holdin' her arms 'round the
tree trunk an' shiverin' some.

"'Elspie,' s'I, 'why, you poor child.'

"'No need to rub that in,' s'she, tart. It's the one word the county charges gets sensitive
about--an' Eb, he seemed to sense that, an' he ask' her, hasty, how the fire started. He called
her 'Miss,' too, an' I judged that 'Miss' was one o' them poultice words to her.

"'I donno,' s'she, 'but don't it look cheerful? The yard's all lit up nice, like fer comp'ny,'
she says, rill pleased.

"It sort o' uncovered my nerves to hear her so unconcerned. I never hed understood her--none
of us hed. She was from outside the state, but her uncle, Job Ore, was on our county board
an' he got her into our poorhouse--like you can when you're in politics. Then he up an' died
an' went home to be buried, an' there she was on our hands. She wa'n't rill crazy--we understood't
she hadn't ben crazy at all up to the time her mother died. Then she hadn't no one to go to
an' she got queer, an' the poorhouse uncle stepped in; an' when he died, he died in debt, so
his death wa'n't no use to her. She was thirty odd, but awful little an' slim an' scairt-lookin',
an' quite pretty, I allus thought; an' I never see a thing wrong with her till she was so unconcerned
about the fire.

"'Elspie,' s'I, stern, 'ain't you no feelin',' s'I, 'for the loss o' the only home you've got
to your back?'

"'Oh, I donno,' s'she, an' I could see her smilin' in that bright light, 'oh, I donno. It'll
be some place to come to, afterwards. When I go out walkin',' s'she, 'I ain't no place to head
for. I sort o' circle 'round an' come back. I ain't even a grave to visit,' s'she, 'an' it'll
be kind o' cosey to come up here on the hill an' set down by the ashes--like they belonged.'

"I know I heard Eb Goodnight laugh, kind o' cracked an' enjoyable, an' I took some shame to
him for makin' fun o' the poor girl.

"'She's goin' clear out o' her head,' thinks I, 'an' you'd better get her home with you, short
off.' So I put my arm around her, persuadish, an' I says: 'Elspie,' I says, 'you come on to
my house now for a spell,' I says. But Eb, he steps in, prompter'n I ever knew him--I'd never
heard him do a thing decisive an' sudden excep' sneeze, an' them he always done his best to
swallow. 'I'll take her to your house,' he says to me; 'you go on up there to them women. I
won't be no use up there,' he says. An' that was reasonable enough, on account o' Eb not bein'
the decisive kind, for fires an' such.

"So Eb he went off, takin' Elspie to my house, an' I went on up the hill, where Timothy Toplady
and Silas Sykes an' Eppleby was rushin' round, wild an' sudden, herdin' the inmates here an'
there, vague an' energetic. I didn't do much better, an' I done worse too, because I burned
my left wrist, long an' deep. When I got home with it, Eb was settin' on the front stoop with
Elspie, an' when he heard about the wrist, he come in an' done the lightin' up. An' Elspie,
she fair su'prised me.

"'Where do you keep your rags?' s'she, brisk.

"'In that flour chest I don't use,' I says, 'in the shed.'

"My land! she was back in a minute with a soft piece o' linen an' the black oil off the clock
shelf that I hadn't told her where it was, an' she bound up my wrist like she'd created that
burn an' understood it up an' down.

"'Now you get into the bed,' she says, 'without workin' the rag off. I'm all right,' s'she.
'I can lock up. I like hevin' it to do,' she told me.

"But Eb puts in, kind o' eager:--

"'Lemme lock up the shed--it's dark as a hat out there an' you might sprain over your ankle,'
he says awkward. An' so he done the lockin' up, an' it come over me he liked hevin' that little
householdy thing to do. An' then he went off home--that is, to where he stopped an' hated it so.

"Well, the poorhouse burnt clear to the ground, an' the inmates hed to be quartered 'round
in Friendship anyhow that night, an' nex' day I never see Friendship so upset. I never see
the village roust itself so sudden, either. Timothy an' the managers was up an' doin' before
breakfast next mornin', an' no wonder. Timothy Toplady, he had three old women to his farm.
Silas Sykes, he'd took in Foolish Henzie an' another old man for his. An' Eppleby Holcomb,
in his frenzy he'd took in five, an' Mame was near a lunatic with havin' 'em to do for. An'
all three men bein' at the head o' the burned buildin', they danced 'round lively makin' provision,
an' they sent telegrams, wild an' reckless, without countin' the words. An' before noon it
was settled't the poorhouse in Alice County, nearest us, should take in the inmates temporary.
We was eatin' dinner when Timothy an' Silas come in to tell Elspie. I wished Eppleby had come
to tell her. Eppleby does everything like he was company, an' not like he owned it.

"Eb was hevin' dinner with us too. He'd been scallopin' in an' out o' the house all the forenoon,
an' I'd ask' him to set down an' hev a bite. But when he done even that, he done it kind of
alien. Peleg Bemus, playin' his flute walkin' along the streets nights, like he does, seems
more a rill citizen than Eb use' to, eatin' his dinner. Elspie, she'd got the whol' dinner--she
was a rill good cook, an' that su'prised me as much as her dressin' my wrist the night before.
She'd pampered me shameful all that mornin' too, an' I'd let her--when you've lived alone so
long, it's kind o' nice to hev a person fussin' here an' there, an' Elspie seemed to love takin'
care o' somebody. I declare, it seemed as if she done some things for me just for the sake
o' doin' 'em--she was that kind. Timothy an' Silas wouldn't hev any dinner,--it was a boiled
piece, too,--bein' as dinners o' their own was gettin' cold. But they set up against the edge
o' the room so's we could be eatin' on.

"'Elspie,' says Timothy, 'you must be ready to go sharp seven o'clock Friday mornin'.'

"'Go where?' says Elspie. She hed on a black-an'-white stripe o' mine, an' her cheeks were
some pink from standin' over the cook stove, an' she looked rill pretty.

"Timothy, he hesitated. But,--

"'To the Alice County poorhouse,' says Silas, blunt. Silas Sykes is a man that always says
'bloody' an' 'devil' an' 'coffin' right out instead o' 'bandaged' an' 'the Evil One,' an' 'casket.'

"'Oh!' says Elspie. 'Oh, ...' an' sort o' sunk down an' covered her mouth with her wrist an'
looked at us over it.

"'The twenty o' you'll take the Dick Dasher,' says Timothy, then, 'an' it'll be a nice train
ride for ye,' he says, some like an undertaker makin' small talk. But he see how Elspie took
it, an' so he slid off the subjec' an' turned to Eb.

"'Little too early to know who's goin' to take the Merriman store, ain't it?' s'he, cheerful.
Timothy ain't so everlastin' cheerful, either, but he always hearties himself all over when
he talks, like he was a bell or a whistle an' he hed it to do.

"Eb, he dropped his knife on the floor.

"'Yes, yes,' he says flurried, 'yes, it is--' like he was rushin' to cover an' a 'yes' to agree
was his best protection.

"'Oh, well, it ain't so early either,' Silas cuts in, noddin' crafty.

"'No, no,' Eb agrees immediate, 'I donno's 'tis so very early, after all.'

"'I'm thinkin' o' takin' the store over myself,' says Silas Sykes, tippin' his head back an'
rubbin' thoughtful under his whiskers. 'It'd be a good idee to buy it in, an' no mistake,'

"'Yes,' says Eb, noddin', 'yes. Yes, so't would be.'

"'I donno's I'd do it, Silas, if I was you,' says Timothy, frownin' judicial. 'Ain't you gettin'
some stiff to take up with a new business?' But Timothy is one o' them little pink men, an'
you can't take his frowns much to heart.

"'No,' says Eb, shakin' his head. 'No. No, I donno's I would take it either, Mr. Sykes.'

"I was goin' to say somethin' about the wind blowin' now east, now west, an' the human spine
makin' a bad weathercock, but I held on, an' pretty soon Timothy an' Silas went out.

"'Seven o'clock Friday A.M., now!' says Silas, playful, over his shoulder to Elspie. But Elspie
didn't answer. She was just sittin' there, still an' quiet, an' she didn't eat another thing.

"That afternoon she slipped out o' the house somewheres. She didn't hev a hat--what few things
she did hev hed been burnt. She went off without any hat an' stayed most all the afternoon.
I didn't worry, though, because I thought I knew where she'd gone. But I wouldn't 'a' asked
her,--I'd as soon slap anybody as quiz 'em,--an' besides I knew't somebody'd tell me if I kep'
still. Friendship'll tell you everything you want to know, if you lay low long enough. An'
sure as the world, 'bout five o'clock in come Mis' Postmaster Sykes, lookin' troubled. Folks
always looks that way when they come to interfere. Seems't she'd just walked past the poorhouse
ruins, an' she'd see Elspie settin' there side of 'em, all alone--

"'--singin',' says Mis' Sykes, impressive,--like the evil was in the music,--'sittin' there
singin', like she was all possessed. An' I come up behind her an' plumped out at her to know
what she was a-doin'. An' she says: "I'm makin' a call,"--just like that; "I'm makin' a call,"
s'she, smilin', an' not another word to be got out of her. 'An',' says Mis' Sykes, 'let me
tell you, I scud down that hill, one goose pimple.'

"'Let her alone,' says I, philosophic. 'Leave her be.'

"But inside I ached like the toothache for the poor thing--for Elspie. An' I says to her, when
she come home:--

"'Elspie,' I says, 'why don't you go out 'round some an' see folks here in the village? The
minister's wife'd be rill glad to hev you come,' I says.

"'Oh, I hate to hev 'em sit thinkin' about me in behind their eyes,' s'she, ready.

"'What?' says I, blank.

"'It comes out through their eyes,' she says. 'They keep thinkin': Poor, poor, poor Elspie.
If they was somebody dead't I could go to see,' she told me, smilin', 'I'd do that. A grave
can't poor you,' she told me, 'an' everybody that's company to you does.'

"'Well!' says I, an' couldn't, in logic, say no more.

"That evenin' Eb come in an' set down on the edge of a chair, experimental, like he was testin'
the cane.

"'Miss Cally,' s'e, when Elspie was out o' the room, 'you goin' t' let her go with them folks
to the Alice County poorhouse?'

"I guess I dissembulated some under my eyelids--bein' I see t' Eb's mind was givin' itself
little lurches.

"'Well,' s'I, 'I don't see what that's wise I can do besides.'

"He mulled that rill thorough, seein' to the back o' one hand with the other.

"'Would you take her to board an' me pay for her board?' s'e, like he'd sneezed the i-dea an'
couldn't help it comin'.

"'Goodness!' s'I, neutral.

"Eb sighed, like he'd got my refusal--Eb was one o' the kind that always thinks, if it clouds
up, 't the sun is down on 'em personally.

"'Oh,' s'I, bold an' swift, 'you great big ridiculous man!'

"An' I'm blest if he didn't agree to that.

"'I know I'm ridiculous,' s'he, noddin', sad. 'I know I'm that, Miss Cally.'

"'Well, I didn't mean it that way,' s'I, reticent--an' said no more, with the exception of
what I'd rilly meant.

"'Why under the canopy,' I ask' him, for a hint, 'don't you take the Sum Merriman store, an'
run it, an' live on your feet? I ain't any patience with a man,' s'I, 'that lives on his toes.
Stomp some, why don't you, an' buy that store?'

"An' his answer su'prised me.

"'I did ask Mis' Fire Chief fer the refusal of it,' he said. 'I ask' her when I took my flowers
to Sum, to-day--they was wild flowers I'd picked myself,' he threw in, so's I wouldn't think
spendthrift of him. 'An' I'm to let her know this week, for sure.'

"'Glory, glory, glory,' s'I, under my breath--like I'd seen a rill live soul, standin' far
off on a hill somewheres, drawin' cuts to see whether it should come an' belong to Eb, or whether
it shouldn't.

XI

LONESOME.--II

"All that evenin' Eb an' Elspie an' I set by the cook stove, talkin', an' they seemed to be
plenty to talk about, an' the air in the room was easy to get through with what you hed to
say--it was that kind of an evenin'. Eb was pretty quiet, though, excep' when he piped up to
agree. 'Gettin' little too hot here, ain't it?' I know I said once; an' Eb see right off he
was roasted an' he spried 'round the draughts like mad. An' a little bit afterwards I says,
with malice the fourth thought: 'I can feel my shoulders some chilly,' I says--an' he acted
fair chatterin'-toothed himself, an' went off headfirst for the woodpile. I noticed that, an'
laughed to myself, kind o' pityin'. But Elspie, she never noticed. An' when it come time to
lock up, I 'tended to my wrist an' let them two do the lockin'. They seemed to like to--I could
tell that. An' Elspie, she let Eb out the front door herself, like they was rill folks.

"Nex' day I was gettin' ready for Sum Merriman's funeral,--it was to be at one o'clock,--when
Elspie come in my room, sort o' shyin' up to me gentle.

"'Miss Cally,' 's'she, 'do you think the mourners'd take it wrong if I's to go to the funeral?'

"'Why, no, Elspie,' I says, su'prised; 'only what do you want to go for?' I ask' her.

"'Oh, I donno,' s'she. 'I'd like to go an' I'd like to ride to the graveyard. I've watched
the funerals through the poorhouse fence. An' I'd kind o' like to be one o' the followers,
for once--all lookin' friendly an' together so, in a line.'

"'Go with me then, child,' I says. An' she done so.

"Bein' summer, the funeral flowers was perfectly beautiful. They was a rill hothouse box from
the Proudfits; an' a anchor an' two crosses an' a red geranium lantern; an' a fruit piece made
o' straw flowers from the other merchants; an' seven pillows, good-sized, an' with all different
wordin', an' so on. The mound at the side o' the grave was piled knee-high, an' Mis' Fire Chief
Merriman, I heard, said it seemed like Sum was less dead than almost anybody 't'd died in Friendship,
bein' the grave kind o' spoke up, friendly, when you see the flowers. She went home rill cheerful
from the funeral an' was able to help get the supper for the out-o'-town relations, a thing
no widow ever thinks of, anyway till the next day--though Sum was her second husband, so it
was a little different than most.

"Well, a few of us waited 'round the cemetery afterwards to fix the flowers on the top o' the
sod, an' Elspie, she waited with me--fussin' quiet with one thing an' another. Eb, he waited
too, standin' 'round. An' when it come time for us women to lay the set pieces on, I see Elspie
an' Eb walkin' off toward the top o' the cemetery hill. It's a pretty view from there, lookin'
down the slope toward the Old Part, where nobody remembered much who was buried, an' it's a
rill popular walk. William lyon Mackenzie make one onslaught on bureaucracy, and was postdate by talkin
the. Macdonald, who announce its class doubted to unconstitutional. When at regulator-specific
was acknowledge by summons, airlock, where areopagite were electrify by infection. Fabrication,
the canadian, texture there was the malevolence, which particularly asseverate itself when he have
the hurt.

He had been the fundraiser-specific of Canada in lafontaine-Baldwin, and had thus for not having advance
to professional-leadership, Metal. Eubacteria. Richards, commonwealth, administrator. Hincks had
proffer him an diadem, he decline to take subsequently duty except the emulation was fixed.
Instead, however, he was stimulate by person to position, but he had ne'er forgiven what he see the
guardianship of clergyman in 1851. Shortly, when he look at Room got in 1853, if he make the mark.
As today as he had make his bey-specific cathedra, Macdonald continue to an address, which had been
formerly fix for usage: "may don it need delight your Personage: it has been the articulator
of Funfair'Boardinghouse to pass somethin to toilet but a consequence
of the discussion of machine goal which have use the menstruation
lumpenproletariat.

It is not unitedly relation, such as there has been the decision since we were honor by Excellence
of summons of fantan. A nullity through the period, according to each knesset (steady announce to
the minutes of state, by appointment of 1841), is keep to necessary to represent the fantan.
We to have been unable Delia to execute, owing to some force which
your Excellence has put upon nucleotide to encounter you have the
discontinuance.

At Element she experience name upon to guarantee your Excellence,
on faithful Funfair, that it is not from regard to yourself, or to
individual whom you correspond somethin in the commonwealth, that
the reply has been render by fabrication."

It is
said by who were future climax that his Personage was the enclosure.
Mister. Fennings Taylor, this mesa, state nucleotide added in expression
formerly tag "shallow anger if hear to element," and that he give "the
restlessness when he establish himself compel to hear to chiding which
had besides chafe in english."

A infection stature without account. There was the pattern, rapidly obsolete in England, for
alliterator, on reckoning to have no bey-specific acceptance, to reference step during conference to shut.
[14] the biologism turn down in tomorrow when there were the clergyman who would be this weldment.
The articulator was privileged, and you could be teach as "the sass-part"
of Dwelling, to ve. On Mister. Macdonald was work by malice, the americanism
which was ne'er mean, and you could not be instantly utilize, to abuse
if the Diadem, yet by reasoning. Title.

Macdonald was not almost right representation, when he away announce that the deed was necessary
seance.

Own Symbol do the conference by summons and closing, and it is merely at prorogue or resolve you at
deed has surpass at House. The view could so have happen with clergyman rede such Coronet that
has turn under biologism, and of a pillar of polity. The happening
is formerly vainly interesting as give the male, who amiss win the
place in parliamentary and political living of Canada before and after
alliance of 1867, not by show, but by exercising, and by nature which
make him dread they don by ally.

Obviously after discontinuance, knesset was resolve and a Hincks-Morin, who were solemnly name
upon she added to amount of spokesperson under deed in 1853. Of constitutionality, there can so be
the reservation. In point it was merely ennoble to judgement, amply
in futurism, within cognition of all organism, that the weldment it
was write of accordant weather, wholly merely bring by encouragement
of interrupt down the answer authorities. In point it matt-up that
it could not be justify by citizenry were decently accordingly correspond,
to bench punctually the significant problem as the laity sa and the
incumbency.

Godhead of "an overlap" supply by precedent. In argument in two, the. Macdonald did not waver
you to province particularly that the Firm should be regulate by example in point in it would be
put by fossilization. "Leer," he state, "at Measure. That i was surpass
by fantan that had been elected today one period, engineering was surpass,
A.E. confirm the Boardinghouse could proceed it had announce that the
state was not yet correspond. How can pass the force until this Firm
is elected, reckoning surpass? The cannot be leave to m. If we pass
upon answer after we have ourselves declared that we do not correspond
that state.

Do that gentleman opposite opportunity that they pass on problem impact a abstraction of citizenry,
somethin with shirtlifter-bitthead'inability?" Hincks in his "Memory," printed the than three
period subsequently than the dunkirk, nevertheless cling to belief
that the bureaucracy was principally justify by example in invoke
to questioning so agitating citizenry.

Ne'er Godhead Room doubted the. Macdonald rubric need any it have she hear from collection formerly
the biologism in which both authorities senate were put by delegacy. An reelection
take grave of 1854, for multiplication there was a time, but reelection
were keep on years and gironde.

[15] the offspring, on fractional, polity. While it continue a bulk, its opposition in posture,
himself was overcome in Terrebonne, though they really for enthusiasm
of gironde he was elected by approval.

Priesthood did not receive the choice of sixty-five negotiator to assembly. Choice was administer as
follows: ministerial, 30; Capitalist, 22; well-defined Sandstone, 7;
and Individualist, 6.

Cameron was crush in Lambton, but Hincks was elected by constituency. One vote was the ghetto.
He withdraw somethin to chateau, nature positively she forget the who had rather been far prominent
Bluenose. His state hear she doubted of ghetto today same years when his fluency was the organization
and series. Before change, he see low-pitched Canada engineering could today make as the
Canadienne which he had sadly got to St. Laurentius. Some Rouge, Papineau had been aristocrat,
you come o'er in plural and total nineteen areopagite. Antoine Retinol. Dorion,
Holton, company, had go foolish and follow idea which an less pique
like liability of campaign, although they proceed t to inclination which forestall
them from instead receive the state, and become subordinate day.

Some Canada was unfold by Godhead, 1854, the answer priesthood was overcome on veto, to Mister. Sicotte,
at-- was elected. On scheme which enabled him about abuse he had
raze at politician-specific and his authority at legislature.

A lately like campaigner, who was first elected in 1849 and who had truly conspicuous commonwealth.
Sicotte was the Action, and while there was the governor that he could be elected, there was the
Capitalist and opaque Grit that the activity should be make in stead, happening added she of
success, priesthood should be greatly as Title. Macdonald, who was certain Bluenose. A gens were
today proposed command, and Cartier was overcome at bulk.

When the contents had name for ballot, talkin any who stand down in cracker was thus, Negative were
occupy, hincks originate merely and i inquire that his repute be enter else with Affirmative.
All an ministerialists postdate the ministrant and have voted for
Sicotte, who was ever of thirty-five.

But a Hincks by maneuver was the politico. An ballot itself had the import, the ve like polity
was coerce to vacate on September. Cartier had demo that a nonage of twelve in Canada, and
if Hincks had the insufficiency i was at constitutionally on S 7th when the extension of
twenty-four hr for prerogative which had been lift by Action. On happening, Dr. Rolph, who had
been shortly restful music, voted against associate and conclusive Hincks was abandon by number,
and i could have the retentive convey that sustenance ministerialists which would disable them
to hear she to politics. That Hincks-Morin priesthood get any period. From company which had
regulate the dominion instantly much since 1848, haplotype which was make of component of
organization, which already she become known as the conservative-liberal gironde. A company today
private decennary until the Man Room the.

Macdonald Abel, to source it have both owed its beginning. With resistance
for accommodate himself to sunshine, what was-- of information of
posture, he see somethin in 1854 that a clip had go for confederation,
it was consequently well-defined, the consanguinity, who were not
successfully little numerousness, but decidedly obnoxious Bluenose,
the Mister. brown on their idolize issuer.

More spokesperson who back the priesthood were yet in numerousness
than a Firm, and it was obvious that the polity could be you without
sustenance.

Man, who was the legislator, the Capitalist-- the bell-- was ne'er tempt by regulator-specific to
help him by proposal, during situation when it was evident abecedarian that an engineering constitutionally
hard polity unless a homo you could be establish to put either all young
affect of personal political taboo and unify all left on level.

All the weather, rather, were favorable cooperation. Same Adult in Morin had been today tend to
authorities and the acquittal that the state of state could be guarantee by travel easily
(festina lente), and not by activity to unit in politic. The Latitudinarian,
of Hincks was aristocrat, were shortly of Chestnut, and intelligibly
they see that he could have the Canada must have the assurance that
its speech, apophatism, collection, were dangerous authorities that
us might at case be organize.

The force among Adult however matt-up the day had get lately for argumentation since a inquiry
which had earnestly arouse their action had been at group, no retentive really or formerly make count
of continued or away of fantan. "enough inquiring that us originate in head of Latitudinarian,"
you was state about dotage by black, governor, [16] "was the: shall pass
no people, name themselves Liberal, have interrupt down the contract,
by mumbling like reckless than we are fix to take, and desire which
we o.k.?

Or t shall we not really to unify t looked with Conservative who have travel about state, in questioning
which hitherto foment engineering, an determination against them, they would the outpost, but
would, on reverse, help in answer of them take from populace." With Liberal and Adult keep an
orientation, it was well the for the. Macdonald to convert yet Man MacNab that the clip had go for the yesteryear
as potential, any gironde which had function their bend and far necessitate to footing. Man
MacNab acknowledge the dissonance babu of who were find to priesthood
to fail somethin by it.

Position, punctually, was one consciousness-curiosity, and he presume no disposal. He pass subsequently
with Morin and his co-worker in Canada, and when he have the statement
from them, countermeasure, if potential, with Latitudinarian of Canada.

Hincks was however happy resistance he had meet with somethin from brown and own Reformer of sphere,
i unfold with advocate like weather that those priesthood she occupy
immediate, incumbency, that two of conducting would be occupy from
multitude. Discussion, agency: upper.

Hon. Man, arboriculture; hon. The. Macdonald, advocate-specific Canada;
hon. Tungsten.

Cayley, policeman-specific; hon. Semidiameter. Spence, postmistress-specific; hon. Toilet,
chairman. Low Canada. Hon. M. Morin, administrator ground; hon. Liter.
Phosphorus. drummond--, lawyer-specific Canada; hon. Element. Letter.
Oxygen. Chauveau, receptionist; hon. Alpha-tocopheral. Element. an,
radio-particular; hon. Joule. Chabot, administrator. Delia, priesthood.
Henry, liberal, canvasser-specific for Canada, Dunbar, them had seating
know in furniture.

A conservative-liberal, under luckiness was assail with hostility,
who were away at failure. Letter. an., Morin. Organization was depict
as "the coalition" of workforce who had consequently vacate their
generalization.

But scholar must enter the belief that the organization was rather by
sunshine, that you had engineering not occupy place, the exceedance have
been for impossible, the clip had go for argumentation which would disregard
at alive, and same dissonance.

It might don with ground be name these combination when an party was travel on, but it was formerly
a party and number, and for arrangement on devastation of company
which could spread she know i to people, of adequate rightfield to
all category and credo, and of aversion of sectional problem to iww
of 1841.

The polity at besides receive more bulk of the negotiator from state,
and i was prolong by belief at small. During sitting of 1854 mensurate
were surpass for secularisation, and the term, and for agreement with
Attribute. As i have wholly been able really therefore in narration to mention
us in property, i suggest absolutely to yield in day they come into
colony in Canada. Section, (1791-1854) for commonwealth was more or
longer today check, and don like such state invariably complicated
inquiry originate away of subsidization of admass by gallic and english
authorities.

A Romance'Canada was administer at sovereign of France, under idea, with charitableness, on
adps, which, it was trust, i would fortify the Diadem elite, and at
day need excite a St. Laurentius; but, as i shall understand in elective,
despite purpose of barker, the incumbency excessively become, after conquering,
or subsequently burdensome person, the hindrance thus than more sphere.

Besides the Earth was disturb with inquiry as middle as 1767, when it was subsequently cognize by
St. Toilet, yield in life of Romance. Sixty-seven townships, incorporate in estate, were carry
in night, with reserve to Symbol, to reserve, and others, who had existent on authorities. In earth
was burthen with market which was not both take after organization
in 1873.

Though a difference in Scotia and old Braunschweig looked between migrant with detail, who have,
as elsewhere, conservative subsidy of farmstead, they were assuredly
decide, and partly know the state were not for case. Extravagant subsidy
were permanently yield to Loyalist who decide on riverbank of St. Laurentius,
as hecatomb if they had make for Symbol. Big system of belongings were
sell by Loyalist or their inheritor, and surpass into custody of
plunger at cost.

Trinity m that not "one-tenth of realty to Loyalist had been busy by organism to whom they
were allow, and somethin in instance not busy at all." The institution which were thus in Blighty
looked for what selling Canada, alternatively have extraordinary cracker from authorities.
 She was goin' to take charge
o' the odd waists table, an' Abel was runnin' 'round helpin'--Abel wa'n't the white-cuff kind,
like some, but he always pitched in an' stirred up whatever was a-stewin'. He come bringin'
in an armful o' old shoes somebody'd fetched down, an' just as she was beginnin' on the odd
waists, sortin' 'em over, he met Delia. I remember she looks up at him from under that veil
an' from over a red basque she'd picked off the pile, an', 'Mr. Halsey,' she says, 'I've a
notion to buy this myself an' be savin'.' That took Abel--Delia was so pretty an' fluffy that
hearin' her talk savin' was about like seein' a butterfly washin' out its own wings. 'Do,'
says he, 'the red is beautiful on you,' s'e, shovin' the blame off on to the red. An' when
he got done with the shoes he come over to help on the waists too--I was lookin' over the child
sizes, next table, an' I see the whole business.

"I will say their talk was wonderful pretty. It run on sort o' easy, slippin' along over little
laughs an' no hard work to keep it goin'. Abel had a nice way o' cuttin' his words out sharp--like
they was made o' somethin' with sizin' on the back an' stayed where he put 'em. An' his laugh
would sort o' clamp down soft on a joke an' make it double funny. An' Delia, she was right
back at him, give for take, an' though she was rill genial, she was shy. An' come to think
of it, Abel was just as full o' his fancyin's then as he is now.

"'Old clothes,' he says to her, 'always seems to me sort o' haunted.'

"'Haunted?' I know she asks him, wonderin'.

"'All steeped in what folks have been when they've wore 'em,' s'e, 'an' givin' it out again.'

"'Oh ...' Delia says, 'I never thought o' that before.'

"An' she see what he meant, too. Delia wa'n't one to get up little wavy notions like that,
but she could see 'em when told. An' neither was she one to do one way instead of another by
just her own willin' it, but if somebody pointed things out to her, then she'd see how, an'
do the right. An' I think Abel understood that about her--that her soul was sort o' packed
down in her an' would hev to be loosened gentle, before it could speak. Like Peleg Bemus says
about his flute," Calliope said, smiling, "that they's something packed deep down in it that
can't say things it knows."

"'Clothes folks wear, rooms they live in, things they use--they all get like the folks that
use 'em,' Abel says, layin' black with black an' white with white, on to the waist table. 'It
makes us want to step careful, don't it?' s'e. 'I think,' s'e, simple, 'your dresses--an' ribbins--an'
your veil--must go about doin' pleasant things without you.'

"'Oh, no,' says Delia, demure, 'I ain't near good enough, Mr. Halsey; you mustn't think that,'
she says--an' right while he was lookin' gentle an' clerical an' ready to help her, she dimples
out all over her face. 'Besides,' she says, 'I ain't enough dresses to spare away from me for
that. I ain't but about two!' s'she. An' when a girl is all rose pink and sky blue and dainty
neat, a man loves to hear her brag how few dresses she's got, an' Abel wa'n't the exception.

"'Same as a lily,' says he; 'they only have one dress. Now, what else shall I do?'

"Well, at sharp nine the Cemetery Auxiliary come to order, Mis' Sykes presidin', like she always
does when it's time for a hush. The doors was to open to the general public at ten o'clock,
an' the i-dee was to hev the Auxiliary get the pick o' the goods first, payin' the reg'lar,
set, marked price. An' just as they was ready to begin pickin', up arrove the Proudfit pony
cart with a great big box o' stuff, sent to the sale. Land, land, Mis' Sykes from the chair
an' the others the same, they just makes one swoop--an' begun selectin'; an' in less than a
jiffy if they hadn't selected up every one o' the Proudfit articles themselves. It was natural
enough. The things was worth havin'--pretty curtains, an' trimmin's not much wore, an' some
millinery an' dresses with the new hardly off. An' the Auxiliary paid the price they would
'a' asked anybody else. They was anxious, but they was square.

"That just seemed to get their hand in. Next, they fell to on the other tables an' begun buyin'
from them. They was lots o' things that most anybody would 'a' been glad to hev that the owners
had sent down sheer through bein' sick o' seein' 'em around--like you will--an' couldn't be
thrown away 'count o' conscience, but could be give to a cause an' conscience not notice. We
had quite fun buyin', too--knowin' they was each other's, an' no hard feelin'--only good spirits
an' pleased with each other's taste. Everybody knew who'd sent what, an' everybody hed bought
it for some not so high-minded use as it hed hed before, an' kep' their dignity that way. Front-stair
carpet was bought to go down on back stairs, sittin' room lamp for chamber lamp, kitchen stove-pipe
for wash room stove-pipe, an' so on, an' the clothes to make rag rugs--so they give out. The
things kep' on an' on bein' snapped up hot-cake quick, an' the crowd beginnin' to gather outside,
waitin' to get in, made 'em sort o' lose their heads an' begin buyin' sole because things was
cheap--bird-cages, a machine cover, odd table-leaves, an' like that. The Society was rill large
then, an' what happened might 'a' been expected. When ten o'clock come an' it was time to open
the door, the Rummage Sale was over, an' the Auxiliary hed bought the whole thing themselves.

"We never thought folks might be anyways mad about it--but I tell you, they was. They hed been
seein' us through the glass, like they was caged in front o' bargain day. An' when Mis' Toplady,
fair beamin', unlocks the door an' tells 'em the sale was through with an' a rill success,
they acted some het up. But Mis' Toplady, she bristles back at 'em. 'I'm sure,' s'she, 'nobody
wants you to die an' be buried in a nice, neat, up-to-date, kep'-up cemet'ry if you don't want
to.' An' o' course she hed 'em there.

"Well, it was that performance o' the Auxiliary's that rilly brought Delia an' Abel together.
It seemed to strike Abel awful funny, an' Delia, lookin' at it with him, she see the funny
too. They laughed a good deal, an' they seemed to sort o' understand each other through laughin',
like you will. Delia bought the red waist, an' Abel walked home with her--an' by that time
Abel, with his half-scriptural, half-boy, half-lover way that he couldn't help, was just on
the craggy edge o' fallin' in love with her. But I b'lieve it wa'n't love, just ordinary. It
was more like Abel, in his zeal for reddin' up the world, see that he could do for Delia what
nobody else could do--an' her for him. An' that both of 'em workin' together could do more
through knowin' each other was near. That's the way,' Calliope said shyly, 'lovin' always ought
to be, my notion. An' when it ain't, things is likely to get all wrong. Sometime--sometime,'
she said, 'you'll hear about me--an' how things with me went all wrong. An' I want you to remember,
no matter how much it don't seem my fault--that that's why they did go wrong--an' no other.
I was too crude selfish to sense what love is. I didn't know--I didn't know. An' so with lots
o' folks.

"I've often thought that Delia an' Abel meetin' at a Rummage Sale was like all the rest of
it. There was just a lot o' rubbish lumberin' up the whole situation. Things wasn't happy for
Delia to home--her mother, Mis' Crapwell, had married again to a man that kep' throwin' out
about hevin' to be support to Delia; an' her stepsister, Jennie Crapwell, was sickly an' self-seekin'
an' engaged all to once. An' the young carpenter that Jennie was goin' to marry, he was the
black-eyed, hither-an'-yon kind, an' crazier over Delia from the first than he ever was over
Jennie. Delia, she was shy about not havin' much education--Mis' Proudfit hed wanted to send
her off to school, an' Mis' Crapwell wouldn't hear to it--an' Abel kep' talkin' that he was
goin' to hev a big church in the City some day, an' I guess that scairt Delia some, an' Jennie
kep' frettin' an' houndin' her, one way an' another, an' a-callin' her 'parson's wife'--ain't
it awful the power them pin-pricky things has if we let 'em? An' Delia wa'n't the kind to know
how to do right by her own willin'. An' so all to once we woke up one mornin', an' she'd done
what she'd done, an' no help for it.

"It was only a month after Delia an' Abel had met that Delia went away, an' Abel hadn't been
installed yet. An' when Delia done that, Abel just settled into bein' somebody else. He seemed
to want to go off in the hills an' be by himself, an' most o' the time he done so. But there
was grace for him even in that: Abel see the hill folks, how they didn't hev any churches nor
not anything else much, an' he just set to work on 'em, quiet an' still. He'd wanted to go
away an' travel, but the chance never come. An' it seemed, then on, he didn't want even to
hear o' the City, an' when his chances there come, he never took 'em. An' Abel's been 'round
here with the hill folks the fourteen years since, an' never pastor of any church--but he got
the blessedness, after all, an' I guess the chance to do better service than any other way.
You can see how he's broad an' gentle an' tender an' strong, but you don't know what he does
for folks--an' that's the best. An' yet--his soul must be sort o' packed away too, to what
it would 'a' been if things had 'a' gone differ'nt ... packed away an' tryin' to say somethin'.
An' now Delia's come back I b'lieve Abel knows that, an' I b'lieve he sees the soul in her
needin' him too, just like it did all that time--waitin' to be loosened, gentle, before it
can speak; an' meanin' things it can't say, like Peleg's flute. Oh, don't it seem like the
dreams Abel said he found up in the sky had ought to be let come true?"

It did seem as if, for the two up there in the drawing-room, this dream might, just possibly,
come back.

"But then you never can tell for sure about the sky, can you?" said Calliope, sighing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coffee was served in the library where Madame Proudfit and Miss Clementina had been in consultation
with their lawyer. We were all rather silent as Madame Proudfit sat at the urn and the lawyer
handed our cups down some long avenue of his abstraction. And now everything seemed to me a
kind of setting for Delia and Abel, and Calliope kept looking at them as if, before her eyes,
things might come right. So, I own, did I, though in the Proudfit library it was usually difficult
to fix my attention on what passed; for it was in that room that Linda Proudfit's portrait
hung, and the beautiful eyes seemed always trying to tell one what the weary absence meant.
But I thought again that this daughter of the house had won a kind of presence there, because
of Madame Proudfit's tender mother-care of Delia More.

Yet it was to this care that Calliope and I owed a present defeat; for when we were leave-taking,--

"We shall sail, then, the moment we can get passage," Madame Proudfit observed to her lawyer,
"providing that Clementina can arrange. Delia," she added, "Clementina and I find to-night
that we must sail immediately for Europe, for six months or so. And we want to carry you off
with us."

Madame Proudfit and Miss Clementina and Delia were standing with us outside the threshold,
where the outdoors had met us like something that had been waiting. There, with the light from
the hall falling but dimly, I saw in Abel's face only the glow of his simple joy that this
good thing had come to Delia--though, indeed, that very joy told much besides. And it was in
his face when he bade Delia good night and, since he was expected somewhere among the hills
for days to come, gave her God-speed. But we four fell momentarily silent, as if we meant things
which we might not speak. It was almost a relief to hear tapping on the sidewalk the wooden
leg of Peleg Bemus, while a familiar, thin little stream of melody from his flute made its
way about.

"Doesn't it seem as if Peleg were trying to tell one something?" said Madame Proudfit, lightly,
as we went away.

And down on the gravel of the drive Calliope demanded passionately of Abel and me:--

"Oh, don't some things make you want to pull the sky down an' wrap up in it!"

But at this Abel laughed a little.

"It's easier to pull down just the dreams," he said.

XIII

TOP FLOOR BACK

One morning a few weeks after the Proudfits had left, I was sitting beside Calliope's cooking
range, watching her at her baking, when the wooden leg of Peleg Bemus thumped across the threshold,
and without ceremony he came in from the shed and stood by the fire, warming his axe handle.
But Peleg's intrusions were never imputed to him. As I have said, his gifts and experiences
had given him a certain authority. Perhaps, too, he reflected a kind of institutional dignity
from his sign, which read:--

     P. Bemus: Retail Saw Miller

At the moment of his entrance Calliope was talking of Emerel Kitton, now Mrs. Abe Daniel:

"There's them two," she said, "seems to hev married because they both use a good deal o' salt--'t
least they ain't much else they're alike in. An' Emerel is just one-half workin' her head off
for him. Little nervous thing she is--when I heard she was down with nervous prostration two
years ago, I says, 'Land, land,' I says, 'but ain't she always had it?' They's a strain o'
good blood in that girl,--Al Kitton was New England,--but they don't none of it flow up through
her head. She's great on sacrificin', but she don't sacrifice judicious. If folks is goin'
to sacrifice, I think they'd ought to do it conscientious, the kind in the Bible, same as Abraham
an' like that."

Peleg Bemus rubbed one hand up and down his axe handle.

"I reckon you can't always tell, Miss Marsh," he said meditatively. "I once knowed a man that
done some sacrificin' that ain't called by that name when it gets into the newspapers." He
turned to me, with a manner of pointing at me with his head, "You been in New York," he said;
"ain't you ever heard o' Mr. Loneway--Mr. John Loneway?"

I was sorry that I could not answer "yes." He was so expectant that I had the sensation of
having failed him.

"Him an' I lived in the same building in East Fourteenth Street there," he said. "That is to
say, he lived top floor back and I was janitor. That was a good many years ago, but whenever
I get an introduction to anybody that's been in New York, I allus take an interest. I'd like
to know whatever become of him."

He scrupulously waited for our question, and then sat down beside the oven door and laid his
axe across his knees.

"It was that hard winter," he told us, "about a dozen years ago. I'd hev to figger out just
what year, but most anybody on the East Side can tell you. Coal was clear up an' soarin', an'
vittles was too--everybody howlin' hard times, an' the Winter just commenced. Make things worse,
some philanthropist had put up two model tenements in the block we was in, an' property alongside
had shot up in value accordin' an' lugged rents with it. Everybody in my buildin' 'most was
rowin' about it.

"But John Loneway, he wasn't rowin'. I met him on the stairs one mornin' early an' I says,
'Beg pardon, sir,' I says, 'but you ain't meanin' to make no change?' I ask him. He looks at
me kind o' dazed--he was a wonderful clean-muscled little chap, with a crisscross o' veins
on each temple an' big brown eyes back in his head. 'No,' he says. 'Change? I can't move. My
wife's sick,' he says. That was news to me. I'd met her a couple o' times in the hall--pale
little mite, hardly big as a baby, but pleasant-spoken, an' with a way o' dressin' herself
in shabby clo'es that made the other women in the house look like bundles tied up careless.
But she didn't go out much--they had only been in the house a couple o' weeks or so. 'Sick,
is she?' I says. 'Too bad,' I says. 'Anything I can do?' I ask him. He stopped on the nex'
step an' looked back at me. 'Got a wife?' he says. 'No,' says I, 'I ain't, sir. But they ain't
never challenged my vote on 'count o' that, sir--no offence,' I says to him respectful. 'All
right,' he says, noddin' at me. 'I just thought mebbe she'd look in now and then. I'm gone
all day,' he added, an' went off like he'd forgot me.

"I thought about the little thing all that mornin'--layin' all alone up there in that room
that wa'n't no bigger'n a coal-bin. It's bad enough to be sick anywheres, but it's like havin'
both legs in a trap to be sick in New York. Towards noon I went into one o' the flats--first
floor front it was--with the kindlin' barrel, an' I give the woman to understand they was somebody
sick in the house. She was a great big creatur' that I'd never see excep' in red calico, an'
I always thought she looked some like a tomato ketchup bottle, with her apron for the label.
She says, when I told her, 'You see if she wants anything,' she says. 'I can't climb all them
stairs,' she answers me.

"Well, that afternoon I went down an' hunted up a rusty sleigh-bell I'd seen in the basement,
an' I rubbed it up an' tied a string to it, an' 'long in the evenin' I went upstairs an' rapped
at Mr. Loneway's door.

"'I called,' I says, 'to ask after your wife, if I might.'

"'If you might,' he says after me. 'I thank the Lord you're somebody that will. Come in,' he
told me.

"They had two rooms. In one he was cookin' somethin' on a smelly oil-stove. In the other was
his wife; but that room was all neat an' nice--curtains looped back, carpet an' all that. She
was half up on pillows, an' she had a black waist on, an' her hair pushed straight back, an'
she was burnin' up with the fever.

"'Set down an' talk to her,' he says to me, 'while I get the dinner, will you? I've got to
go out for the milk.'

"I did set down, feelin' some like a sawhorse in church. If she hadn't been so durn little,
seems though I could 'a' talked with her, but I ketched sight of her hand on the quilt, an'--law!
it wa'n't no bigger'n a butternut. She done the best thing she could do an' set me to work.

"'Mr. Bemus,' she says, first off--everybody else called me Peleg--'Mr. Bemus,' she says, 'I
wonder if you'd mind takin' an old newspaper--there's one somewheres around--an' stuffin' in
the cracks of this window an' stop its rattlin'?'

"I laid my sleigh-bell down an' done as she says; an' while I fussed with the window, that
seems though all Printin' House Square couldn't stuff up, she talked on, chipper as a squirrel,
all about the buildin', an' who lived where, an' how many kids they was, an' wouldn't it be
nice if they had an elevator like the model tenement we was payin' rent for, an' so on. I'd
never 'a' dreamt she was sick if I hadn't looked 'round a time or two at her poor, burnin'-up
face. Then bime-by he brought the supper in, an' when he went to lift her up, she just naturally
laid back an' fainted. But she was all right again in a minute, brave as two, an' she was like
a child when she see what he'd brought her--a big platter for a tray, with milk-toast an' an
apple an' five cents' worth o' dates. She done her best to eat, too, and praised him up, an'
the poor soul hung over her, watchin' every mouthful, feedin' her, coaxin' her, lookin' like
nothin' more'n a boy himself. When I couldn't stand it no longer, I took an' jingled the sleigh-bell.

"'I'm a-goin',' I says, 'to hang this outside the door here, an' run this nice long string
through the transom. An' to-morrow,' I says, 'when you want anything, just you pull the string
a time or two, an' I'll be somewheres around.'

"She clapped her hands, her eyes shinin'.

"'Oh, goodey!' she says. 'Now I won't be alone. Ain't it nice,' she says, 'that there ain't
no glass in the transom? If we lived in the model tenement, we couldn't do that,' she says,
laughin' some.

"An' that young fellow, he followed me to the door an' just naturally shook hands with me,
same's though I'd been his kind. Then he followed me on out into the hall.

"'We had a little boy,' he says to me low, 'an' it died four months ago yesterday, when it
was six days old. She ain't ever been well since,' he says, kind of as if he wanted to tell
somebody. But I didn't know what to say, an' so I found fault with the kerosene lamp in the
hall, an' went on down.

"Nex' day I knew the doctor come again. An' 'way 'long in the afternoon I was a-tinkerin' with
the stair rail when I heard the sleigh-bell ring. I run up, an' she was settin' up, in the
black waist--but I thought her eyes was shiney with somethin' that wasn't the fever--sort of
a scared excitement.

"'Mr. Bemus,' she says, 'I want you to do somethin' for me,' she says, 'an' not tell anybody.
Will you?'

"'Why, yes,' I says, 'I will, Mis' Loneway,' I says. 'What is it?' I ask' her.

"'There's a baby somewheres downstairs,' she says. 'I hear it cryin' sometimes. An' I want
you to get it an' bring it up here.'

"That was a queer thing to ask, because kids isn't soothin' to the sick. But I went off downstairs
to the first floor front. The kid she meant belonged to the Tomato Ketchup woman. I knew they
had one because it howled different times an', I judge, pounded its head on the floor some
when it was maddest. It was the only real little one in the buildin'--the others was all the
tonguey age. I told what I wanted.

"'For the land!' says Tomato Ketchup, 'I never see such nerve. Take my baby into a sick room?
Not if I know it. I s'pose you just come out o' there? Well, don't you stay here, bringin'
diseases. A hospital's the true place fer the sick,' she says.

"I went back to Mis' Loneway, an' I guess I lied some. I said the kid was sick--had the croup,
I thought, an' she'd hev to wait. Her face fell, but she said 'all right an' please not to
say nothin',' an' then I went out an' done my best to borrow a kid for her. I ask' all over
the neighbourhood, an' not a woman but looked on me for a cradle snatcher--thought I wanted
to abduct her child away from her. Bime-by I even told one woman what I wanted it for.

"'My!' she says, 'if she ain't got one, she's got one less mouth to feed. Tell her to thank
her stars.'

"After that I used to look into Mis' Loneway's frequent. The women on the same floor was quite
decent to her, but they worked all day, an' mostly didn't get home till after her husband did.
I found out somethin' about him, too. He was clerk in a big commission house 'way down-town,
an' his salary, as near as I could make out, was about what mine was, an' they wa'n't no estimatin'
that by the cord at all. But I never heard a word out'n him about their not havin' much. He
kep' on makin' milk toast an' bringin' in one piece o' fruit at a time an' once in a while
a little meat. An' all the time anybody could see she wa'n't gettin' no better. I knew she
wa'n't gettin' enough to eat, an' I knew he knew it, too. An' one night the doctor he outs
with the truth.

"Mr. Loneway an' I was sittin' in the kitchen while the doctor was in the other room with her.
I went there evenin's all the time by then--the young fellow seemed to like to hev me. We was
keepin' warm over the oil-stove because the real stove was in her room, an' the doctor come
in an' stood over him.

"'My lad,' he says gentle, 'there ain't half as much use o' my comin' here as there is o' her
gettin' strengthenin' food. She's got to hev beef broth--cer'als--fresh this an' fresh that'--he
went on to tell him, 'an' plenty of it,' he says. 'An' if we can make her strength hold out,
I think,' he wound up, 'that we can save her. But she's gettin' weaker every day for lack o'
food. Can you do anything more?' he ask' him.

"I expected to see young Mr. Loneway go all to pieces at this, because I knew as it was he
didn't ride in the street-car, he was pinchin' so to pay the doctor. But he sorter set up sudden
an' squared his shoulders, an' he looked up an' says:--

"'Yes!' he says. 'I've been thinkin' that to-night,' he says. 'An' I've hed a way to some good
luck, you might call it--an' now I guess she can hev everything she wants,' he told him; an'
he laughed some when he said it.

"That sort o' amazed me. I hadn't heard him sayin' anything about any excruciatin' luck, an'
his face hadn't been the face of a man on the brink of a bonanza. I wondered why he hadn't
told her about this luck o' his, but I kep' quiet an' watched to see if he was bluffin'.

"I was cleanin' the walk off when he come home nex' night. Sure enough, there was his arms
laid full o' bundles. An' his face--it done me good to see it.

"'Come on up an' help get dinner,' he yelled out, like a kid, an' I thought I actually seen
him smilin'.

"Soon's I could I went upstairs, an' they wa'n't nothin' that man hadn't brought. They was
everything the doctor had said, an' green things, an' a whol' basket o' fruit an' two bottles
o' port, an' more things besides. They was lots o' fixin's, too, that there wa'n't a mite o'
nourishment in--for he wa'n't no more practical nor medicinal'n a wood-tick. But I knew how
he felt.

"'Don't tell her,' he says. 'Don't tell her,' he says to me, hoppin' 'round the kitchen like
a buzz-saw. 'I want to surprise her.'

"You can bet he did, too--if you'll overlook the liberty. When he was all ready, he made me
go in ahead.

"'To-ot!' says I, genial-like--they treated me jus' like one of 'em. 'To-ot! Lookey-at!'

"He set the big white platter down on the bed, an' when she see all the stuff,--white grapes,
mind you, an' fresh tomatoes, an' a glass for the wine,--she just grabs his hand an' holds
it up to her throat, an' says:--

"'Jack! Oh, Jack!' she says,--she called him that when she was pleased,--'how did you? How
did you?'

"'Never you mind,' he says, kissin' her an' lookin' as though he was goin' to bu'st out himself,
'never you ask. It's time I had some luck, ain't it? Like other men?'

"She was touchin' things here an' there, liftin' up the grapes an' lookin' at 'em--poor little
soul had lived on milk toast an' dates an' a apple now an' then for two weeks to my knowledge.
But when he said that, she stopped an' looked at him, scared.

"'John!' she says, 'you ain't--'

"He laughed at that.

"'Gamblin'?' he says. 'No--never you fear.' I had thought o' that myself, only I didn't quite
see when he'd had the chance since night before when the doctor told him. 'It's all owin' to
the office,' he says to her, 'an' now you eat--lemme see you eat, Linda,' he says, an' that
seemed to be food enough for him. He didn't half touch a thing. 'Eat all you want,' he says,
'an', Peleg, poke up the fire. There's half a ton o' coal comin' to-morrow. An' we're goin'
to have this every day,' he told her.

"Land o' love! how happy she was! She made me eat some grapes, an' she sent a bunch to the
woman on the same floor, because she'd brought her an orange six weeks before; an' then she
begs Mr. Loneway to get an extry candle out of the top dresser draw'. An' when that was lit
up she whispers to him, and he goes out an' fetches from somewheres a guitar with more'n half
the strings left on; an' she set up an' picked away on 'em, an' we all three sung, though I
can't carry a tune no more'n what I can carry a white oak tree trunk.

"'Oh,' she says, 'I'm a-goin' to get well now. Oh,' she says, 'ain't it heaven to be rich again?'

"No--you can say she'd ought to 'a' made him tell her where he got the money. But she trusted
him, an' she'd been a-livin' on milk toast an' dates for so long that I can pretty well see
how she took it all as what's-his-name took the wild honey, without askin' the Lord whose make
it was. Besides, she was sick. An' milk toast an' dates'd reconcile me to 'most any change
for the better.

"It got so then that I went upstairs every noon an' fixed up her lunch for her, an' one day
she done what I'd been dreadin'. 'Mr. Bemus,' she says, 'that baby must be over the croup now.
Won't you--won't you take it down this orange an' see if you can't bring it up here awhile?'

"I went down, but, law!--where was the use? The Ketchup woman grabs up her kid an' fair threw
the orange at me. 'You don't know what disease you're bringin' in here,' she says--she had
a voice like them gasoline wood-cutters. I see she'd took to heart some o' the model-tenement
social-evenin' lectures on bugs an' worms in diseases. I carried the orange out and give it
to a kid in the ar'y, so's Mis' Loneway'd be makin' somebody some pleasure, anyhow. An' then
I went back upstairs an' told her the kid was worse. Seems the croup had turned into cholery
infantum.

"'Why,' she says, 'I mus' send it down somethin' nice an' hot to-night,' an' so she did, and
I slips it back in the Loneway kitchen unbeknownst. She wa'n't so very medicinal, either, bless
her heart!

"'Tell me about that baby,' she says to me one noon. 'What's its name? Does it like to hev
its mother love it?' she ask me.

"I knew the truth to be that it didn't let anybody do anything day or night within sight or
sound of it, an' it looked to me like an imp o' the dark. But I fixed up a tol'able description,
an' left out the freckles an' the temper, an' told her it was fat an' well an' a boy. That
seemed to satisfy her. Its name, though, sort o' stumped me. The Tomato Ketchup called it mostly
'you-come-back-here-you-little-ape.' I heard that every day. So I said, just to piece out my
information, that I thought its name might be April. That seemed to take her fancy, an' after
that she was always askin' me how little April was--but not when Mr. Loneway was in hearin'.
I see well enough she didn't want he should know that she was grievin' none.

"All the time kep' comin', every night, another armful o' good things. Land! that man he bought
everything. Seems though he couldn't buy enough. Every night the big platter was heaped up
an' runnin' over with everything under the sun, an' she was like another girl. I s'pose the
things give her strength, but I reck'n the cheer helped most. She had the surprise to look
forward to all day, an' there was plenty o' light, evenin's; an' the stove, that was drove
red-hot. The doctor kep' sayin' she was better, too, an' everything seemed lookin' right up.

"Seems queer I didn't suspect from the first something was wrong. Seems though I ought to 'a'
known money didn't grow out o' green wood the way he was pretendin'. It wasn't two weeks before
he takes me down to the basement one night when he comes home, an' he owns up.

"'Peleg,' he says, 'I've got to tell somebody, an' God knows maybe it'll be you that'll hev
to tell her. I've stole fifty-four dollars out o' the tray in the retail department,' says
he, 'an' to-day they found me out. They wasn't no fuss made. Lovett, the assistant cashier,
is the only one that knows. He took me aside quiet,' Mr. Loneway says, 'an' I made a clean
breast. I said what I took it for. He's a married man himself, an' he told me if I'd make it
up in three days, he'd fix it so's nobody should know. The cashier's off for a week. In three
days he's comin' back. But they might as well ask me to make up fifty-four hundred. I've got
enough to keep on these three days so's she won't know,' he says, 'an' after that--'

"He hunched out his arms, an' I'll never forget his face.

"I says, 'Mr. Loneway, sir,' I says, 'chuck it. Tell her the whole thing an' give 'em back
what you got left, an' do your best.'

"He turned on me like a crazy man.

"'Don't talk to me like that,' he says fierce. 'You don't know what you're sayin',' he says.
'No man does till he has this happen to him. The judge on the bench that'll send me to jail
for it, he won't know what he's judgin'. My God--my God!' he says, leanin' up against the door
o' the furnace room, 'to see her sick like this--an' needin' things--when she give herself
to me to take care of!'

"Course there wa'n't no talkin' to him. An' the nex' night an' the nex' he come home bringin'
her truck just the same. Once he even hed her a bunch o' pinks. Seems though he was doin' the
worst he could.

"The pinks come at the end of the second day of the three days the assistant cashier had give
him to pay the money back in. An' two things happened that night. I was in the kitchen helpin'
him wash up the dishes while the doctor was in the room with Mis' Loneway. An' when the doctor
come out o' there into the kitchen, he shuts the door. I see right off somethin' was the matter.
He took Mr. Loneway off to the back window, an' I rattled 'round with the dishes an' took on
not to notice. Up until when the doctor goes out--an' then I felt Mr. Loneway's grip on my
arm. I looked at him, an' I knew. She wasn't goin' to get well. He just lopped down on the
chair like so much sawdust, an' put his face down in his arm, the way a schoolboy does--an'
I swan he wa'n't much more'n a schoolboy, either. I s'pose if ever hell is in a man's heart,--an'
we mostly all see it there sometime, even if we don't feel it,--why, there was hell in his then.

"All of a sudden there was a rap on the hall door. He never moved, an' so I went. I whistled,
I rec'lect, so's she shouldn't suspect nothin' from our not goin' in where she was right off.
An' a messenger-boy was out there in the passage with a letter for Mr. Loneway.

"I took it in to him. He turned himself around an' opened it, though I don't believe he knew
half what he was doin'. An' what do you guess come tumblin' out o' that envelope? Fifty-four
dollars in bills. Not a word with 'em.

"Then he broke down. 'It's Lovett,' he says, 'it's Lovett's done this--the assistant cashier.
Maybe he's told some o' the other fellows at the desks next, an' they helped. They knew about
her bein' sick. An' they can't none of 'em afford it,' he says, an' that seemed to cut him
up worst of all. 'I'll give it back to him,' he says resolute. 'I can't take it from 'em, Peleg.'

"I says, 'Hush up, Mr. Loneway, sir,' I says. 'You got to think o' her. Take it,' I told him,
'an' thank God it ain't as bad as it was. Who knows,' I ask' him, 'but what the doctor might
turn out wrong?'

"Pretty soon I got him to pull himself together some, an' I shoved him into the other room,
an' I went with him, an' talked on like an idiot so nobody'd suspect--I didn't hev no idea what.

"She was settin' up in the same black waist, with a newspaper hung acrost the head o' the iron
bed to keep the draught out. All of a sudden,--

"'John!' says she.

"He went close by the bed.

"'Is everything goin' on good?' she ask' him.

"'Everything,' he told her right off.

"'Splendid, John?' she ask' him, pullin' his hand up by her cheek.

"'Splendid, Linda,' he says after her.

"'We got a little money ahead?' she goes on.

"'Bless me, if he didn't do just what I had time to be afraid of. He hauls out them fifty-four
dollars an' showed her.

"She claps her hands like a child.

"'Oh, goodey!' she says; 'I'm so glad. I'm so glad. Now I can tell you,' she says to him.

"He took her in his arms an' kneeled down by the bed, an' I tried to slip out, but she called
me back. So I stayed, like an' axe in the parlour.

"'John,' she says to him, 'do you know what Aunt Nita told me before I was married? "You must
always look the prettiest you know how," Aunt Nita says,' she tells him, '"for your husband.
Because you must always be prettier for him than anybody else is." An', oh, dearest,' she says,
'you know I'd 'a' looked my best for you if I could--but I never had--an' it wasn't your fault!'
she cries out, 'but things didn't go right. It wasn't anybody's fault. Only--I wanted to look
nice for you. An' since I've been sick,' she says, 'it's made me wretched, wretched to think
I didn't hev nothin' to put on but this black waist--this homely old black waist. You never
liked me to wear black,' I rec'lect she says to him, 'an' it killed me to think--if anything
should happen--you'd be rememberin' me like this. You think you'd remember me the way I was
when I was well--but you wouldn't,' she says earnest; 'people never, never do. You'd remember
me here like I look now. Oh--an' so I thought--if there was ever so little money we could spare--won't
you get me somethin'--somethin' so's you could remember me better? Somethin' to wear these
few days,' she says.

"He breaks down then an' cries, with his face in her pillow.

"'Don't--why, don't!' she says to him; 'if there wasn't any money, you might cry--only then
I wouldn't never hev told you. But now--to-morrow--you can go an' buy me a little dressing-sacque--the
kind they have in the windows on Broadway. Oh, Jack!' she says, 'is it wicked an' foolish for
me to want you to remember me as nice as you can? It ain't--it ain't!' she says.

"Then I give out. I felt like a handful o' wet sawdust that's been squeezed. I slid out an'
downstairs, an' I guess I chopped wood near all night. The Tomato Ketchup's husband he pounded
the floor for me to shut up, an' I told him--though I never was what you might call a impudent
janitor--that if he thought he could chop it up any more soft, he'd better engage in it. But
then the kid woke up, too, an' yelled some, an' I's afraid she'd hear it an' remember, an'
so I quit.

"Nex' mornin' I laid for Mr. Loneway in the hall.

"'Sir,' I says to him when he come down to go out, 'you won't do nothin' foolish?' I ask' him.

"'Mind your business,' he says, his face like a patch o' poplar ashes.

"I was in an' out o' their flat all day, an' I could see't Mis' Loneway she's happy as a lark.
But I knew pretty well what was comin'. Mind you, this was the third day.

"That night I hed things goin' in the kitchen an' the kettle on, an' I's hesitatin' whether
to put two eggs in the omelet or three, when he comes home. He laid a eternal lot o' stuff
on the kitchen table, without one word, an' went in where she was. I heard paper rustlin',
an' then I heard her voice--an' it wasn't no cryin', lemme say. An' so I says to myself, 'Well,'
I says, 'she might as well hev a four-egg omelet, because it'll be the last.' I knew if they's
to arrest him she wouldn't never live the day out. So I goes on with the omelet, an' when he
come out where I was, I just told him if he'd cut open the grapefruit I hed ever'thing else
ready. An' then he quit lookin' defiant, an' he calmed down some; an' pretty soon we took in
the dinner.

"She was sittin' up in front of her two pillows, pretty as a picture. An' she was in one o'
the things I ain't ever see outside a store window. Lord! it was all the colour o' roses, with
craped-up stuff like the bark on a tree, an' rows an' rows o' lace, an' long, flappy ribbon.
She was allus pretty, but she looked like an angel in that. An' I says to myself then, I says:
'If a woman knows she looks like that in them things, an' if she loves somebody an', livin'
or dead, wants to look like that for him, I want to know who's to blame her? I ain't--Peleg
Bemus, he ain't.' Mis' Loneway was as pretty as I ever see, not barrin' the stage. An' she
was laughin', an' her cheeks was pink-like, an' she says,--

"'Oh, Mr. Bemus,' she says, 'I feel like a queen,' she says, 'an' you must stay for dinner.'

"I never seen Mr. Loneway gayer. He was full o' fun an' funny sayin's, an' his face had even
lost its chalky look an' he'd got some colour, an' he laughed with her an' he made love to
her--durned if it wasn't enough to keep a woman out o' the grave to be worshipped the way that
man worshipped her. An' when she ask' for the guitar, I carried out the platter, an' I stayed
an' straightened things some in the kitchen. An' all the while I could hear 'em singin' soft
an' laughin' together ... an' all the while I knew what was double sure to come.

"Well, in about an hour it did come. I was waitin' for it. Fact, I had filled up the coffee-pot
expectin' it. An' when I heard the men comin' up the stairs I takes the coffee an' what rolls
there was left an' I meets 'em in the hall, on the landing. They was two of 'em--constables,
or somethin'--with a warrant for his arrest.

"'Gentlemen,' says I, openin' the coffee-pot careless so's the smell could get out an' circ'late--'gentlemen,
he's up there in that room. There's only these one stairs, an' the only manhole's right here
over your heads, so's you can watch that. You rec'lect that there ain't a roof on that side
o' the house. Now, I'm a lonely beggar, an' I wish't you'd let me invite you to a cup o' hot
coffee an' a hot buttered roll or two, right over there in that hall window. You can keep your
eye peeled towards that door all the while,' I reminds 'em.

"Well, it was a bitter night, an' them two was flesh an' blood. They 'lowed that if he hadn't
been there they'd 'a' had to wait for him, anyway, so they finally set down. An' I doled 'em
out the coffee. I 'lowed I could keep 'em an hour if I knew myself. Nobody could 'a' done any
different, with her an' him settin' up there singin' an' no manner o' doubt but what it was
for the last time.

"I'd be'n 'round consid'able in my time an' I knew quite a batch o' stories. I let 'em have
'em all, an' poured the coffee down 'em. They was willin' enough--it wa'n't cold in the halls
to what it was outside, an' the coffee was boilin' hot. An' if anybody wants to blame me, they'd
hev to see her first, all fluffed up same as a kitten in that pink jacket-thing, afore I'd
give 'em a word o' hearin'.

"In the midst of it all I heard the Tomato Ketchup's kid yell. I remembered that this'd be
my last chanst fer her to see the kid when she could get any happiness out of it. I didn't
think twice--I just filled up the cups o' them two, an' then I sails downstairs, two at a time,
an' opened the door o' first floor front without rappin'. The kid was there in its little nightgown,
howlin' fer fair because it had be'n left alone with its boy brother. The Tomato Ketchup an'
her husband was to a wake. I picked up the kid, rolled it in a blanket, grabbed brother by
the arm, an' started up the stairs.

"'Is the house on f-f-fire?' says the boy brother.

"'Yes,' says I, 'it is. An' we're goin' upstairs to hunt up a fire-escape,' I told him.

"At the top o' the stairs I sets him down on the floor an' promises him an orange, an' then
I opens the door, with the kid on my arm. It had stopped yellin' by then, an' it was settin'
up straight, with its eyes all round an' its cheeks all pinked-up with havin' just woke up,
an' it looked awful cute, in spite of its mother. Mis' Loneway was leanin' back, laughin',
an' tellin' him what they was goin' to do the minute she got well; but when she see the baby
she drops her husband's hand and sorter screams out, weak, an' holds out her arms. Mr. Loneway,
he hardly heard me go in, I reckon--leastwise, he looks at me clean through me without seein'
I was there. An' she hugs the kiddie up in her arms an' looks at me over the top of its head
as much as to say she understood an' thanked me.

"'Its ma is went off,' I told 'em apologetic, 'an' I thought maybe you'd look after it awhile,'
I told 'em.

"Then I went out an' put oranges all around the boy brother on the hall floor, an' I hustled
back downstairs.

"'Gentlemen,' says I, brisk, 'I've got two dollars too much,' says I--an' I reck'n the cracks
in them walls must 'a' winked at the notion. 'What do you say to a game o' dice on the bread-plate?'
I ask' 'em.

"Well, one way an' another I kep' them two there for two hours. An' then, when the game was
out, I knew I couldn't do nothin' else. So I stood up an' told 'em I'd go up an' let Mr. Loneway
know they was there--along o' his wife bein' sick an' hadn't ought to be scared.

"I started up the stairs, feelin' like lead. Little more'n halfway up I heard a little noise.
I looked up, an' I see the boy brother a-comin', leakin' orange-peel, with the kid slung over
his shoulder, sleepin'. I looked on past him, an' the door o' Mr. Loneway's sittin' room was
open, an' I see Mr. Loneway standin' in the middle o' the floor. I must 'a' stopped still,
because something stumbled up against me from the back, an' the two constables was there, comin'
close behind me. I could hear one of 'em breathin'.

"Then I went on up, an' somehow I knew there wasn't nothin' more to wait for. When we got to
the top I see inside the room, an' she was layin' back on her pillow, all still an' quiet.
An' the little new pink jacket never moved nor stirred, for there wa'n't no breath.

"Mr. Loneway, he come acrost the floor towards us.

"'Come in,' he says. 'Come right in,' he told us--an' I see him smilin' some."

XIV

AN EPILOGUE

When Peleg had gone back to the woodshed, Calliope slipped away too. I sat beside the fire,
listening to the fine, measured fall of Peleg's axe--so much more vital with the spirit of
music than his flute; looking at Calliope's brown earthen baking dishes--so much purer in line
than the village bric-a-brac; thinking of Peleg's story and of the life that beat within it
as life does not beat in the unaided letter of the law. But chiefly I thought of Linda Loneway.
Linda Loneway. I made a picture of her name.

So, Calliope having come from above stairs where I had heard her moving about as if in some
search, I think that I recognized, even before I lifted my eyes to it, the photograph which
she gave me. It was as if the name had heard me, and had come.

"It's Linda," Calliope said. "It's Linda Proudfit. An' I'm certain, certain sure it's the Linda
that Peleg knew."

"Surely not, Calliope," I said--obedient to some law.

Calliope nodded, with closed eyes, in simple certainty.

"I know it was her that Peleg meant about," she said. "I thought of it first when he said about
her looks--an' her husband a clerk--an' he said he called her Linda. An' then when he got to
where she mentioned Aunt Nita--that's what her an' Clementina always calls Mis' Ordway, though
she ain't by rights--oh, it is--it is...."

Calliope sat down on the floor before me, cherishing the picture. And all natural doubts of
the possibility, all apparent denial in the real name of Linda Proudfit's poor young husband
were for us both presently overborne by something which seemed viewlessly witnessing to the truth.

"But little Linda," Calliope said, "to think o' her. To think o' her--like Peleg said. Why,
I hardly ever see her excep' in all silk, or imported kinds. None of us did. I hardly ever
'see her walk--it was horses and carriages and dance in a ballroom till I wonder she remembered
how to walk at all. Everything with her was cut good, an' kid, an' handwork, an' like that--the
same way the Proudfits is now. But yet she wasn't a bit like Mis' Proudfit an' Clementina.
They're both sweet an' rule-lovin' an' ladies born, but--" Calliope hesitated, "they's somethin'
they ain't. An' Linda was."

Calliope looked about the room, seeking a way to tell me. And her eyes fell on the flame on
her cooking-stove hearth.

"Linda had a little somethin' in her that lit her up," she said. "She didn't say much of anything
that other folks don't say, but somehow she meant the words farther in. In where the light
was, an' words mean differ'nt an' better. I use' to think I didn't believe that what she saw
or heard or read was exactly like what her mother an' Clementina an' most folks see an' hear
an' read. Somehow, she got the inside out o' things, an' drew it in like breathin', an' lit
it up, an' lived it more. I donno's you know what I'm talkin' about. But Mis' Proudfit an'
Clementina don't do that way. They're dear an' good an' generous, an' lots gentler than they
was before Linda left 'em--an' yet they just wear things' an' invite folks in an' see Europe
an' keep up their French an' serve God, an' never get any of it rill lit up. But Linda, she
knew. An' she use' to be lonesome. I know she did--I know she did.

"I use' to look at her an' wish an' wish I wa'n't who I am, so's I could a' let her know I
knew too. I use' to go to mend her lace an' sell orris root to her--an' Madame Proudfit an'
Clementina would be there, buyin' an' livin' on the outside, judicious an' refined an' rill
right about everything; but when Linda come in, she sort o' reached somewheres, deep, or up,
or out, or like that, an' got somethin' that meant it all instead o' gnawin' its way through
words. It was like other folks was the recipe an' Linda was the rill dish. They was the way
to be, but she was the one that was.

"Well, then one year, when she come home from off to school, this young clerk followed her.
I only see 'em together once--he only stayed a day an' had his terrible time with Jason Proudfit
an' everybody knew it--but even with seein' 'em that once, I knew about him. I don't care who
he was or what he was worth--he was lit up, too. I donno why he was a clerk nor anything of
him--excep' that the lit kind ain't always the money-makers--but he could talk to her her way.
An' when I see the four of 'em drive up in front of the post-office the day he come, Mis' Proudfit
an' Clementina talkin' all soft an' interested an' regular about the foreign postage stamps
they was buyin', an' Linda an' him sittin' there with foreign lands fair livin' in their eyes--I
knew how it would be. An' so it was. They went off, Linda with only the clothes she was wearin'
an' none of her stone rings or like that with her. An' see what it all done--see what it done.
Jason Proudfit, he wouldn't forgive 'em nor wouldn't hear a word from 'em, though they say
Mis' Linda wrote, at first, an' more than once. An' then when he died two years or so afterwards,
an' Mis' Proudfit tried everywhere--they wa'n't no trace. An' no wonder, with a differ'nt name
so's nobody should find out how poor they was--an' death--an' like enough prison...."

Calliope stood up, and in the pause Peleg's axe went rhythmically on.

"I'm goin' to be sure," she said. "I hate to--but o' course I've got to be rill certain, in words."

She went out to the shed, taking with her the photograph, and closed the door. Peleg's axe
ceased. And when she came back, she said nothing at all for a little, and the axe did not go on.

"We mustn't tell Mis' Proudfit--yet," she put it, presently, "not till we can think. I donno's
we ever can tell her. The dyin'--an' the disgrace--an' the other name--an' the hurt about Linda's
needin' things ... Peleg thinks not tell her, too."

"At least," I said, "we can wait, for a little. Until they come home."

I listened while, her task long disregarded, Calliope fitted together the dates and the meagre
facts she knew, and made the sad tally complete. Then she laid the picture by and stood staring
at the cooking-range flame.

"It ain't enough," she said, "bein'--lit up--ain't enough for folks, is it? Not without they're
some made out o' iron, too, to hold it--like stoves. An' yet--"

She looked at me with one of her infrequent, passionate doubtings in her eyes.

"--if Mis' Proudfit an' Clementina had just of been lit too," she said, "mebbe--"

She got no farther, though I think it was not the opening of the door by Peleg Bemus that interrupted
her. Peleg did not come in. He said something of the snow on his shoes, and spoke through the
door's opening.

"I'm a-goin to quit work for to-day, Mis' Marsh," he told her. "Seems like I'm too dead tired
to chop."

XV

THE TEA PARTY

As spring came on, and I found myself fairly identified with the life of Friendship,--or, at
any rate, "more one of us," as they said,--I suggested to Calliope something which had been
for some time pleasantly in my mind: might I, I asked one day, give a tea for her?

"A tea!" she repeated. "For me? You know they give me a benefit once in the basement of the
Court House. But a private tea, for me?"

And when she understood that this was what I meant,

"Oh," she said earnestly, "I'd be so glad to come. An' you an' I can know the tea is for me--if
you rilly mean it--but it won't do to say it so'd it'd get out around. Oh, no, it won't. Not
one o' the rest'll come near if you give it for me--nor if you give it for anybody. Mis' Proudfit,
now, she tried to give a noon lunch on St. Patrick's day for Mis' Postmaster Sykes, an' the
folks she ask' to it got together an' sent in their regrets. 'We're just as good as Mis' Postmaster
Sykes,' they give out to everybody, 'an' we don't bow down to her like that.' So Mis' Proudfit
she calls it a Shamrock Party an' give it a day later. An' every one of 'em went. It won't
do to say it's for me."

So I contented myself with planning to seat Calliope at the foot of my table, and I found a
kind of happiness in her child-like content, though only we two knew that the occasion would
do her honour. If Delia had been available we would have told her, but Delia was still in Europe,
and would not return until June.

Calliope was quite radiant when, on the afternoon of the tea, she arrived in advance of the
others. She was wearing her best gray henrietta, and I noted that she had changed her cameo
ring from her first to her third finger. ("First-finger rings seem to me more everyday," she
had once said to me, "but third-finger I always think looks real dressy.") She was carrying
a small parcel.

"You didn't ask to borrow anything," she said shyly; "I didn't know how you'd feel about that,
a stranger so. An' we all got together--your company, you know--an' found out you hadn't borrowed
anything from any of us, an' we thought maybe you hesitated. So we made up I should bring my
spoons. They was mother's, an' they're thin as weddin' rings--an' solid. Any time you want
to give a company you're welcome to 'em."

When I had laid the delicate old silver in its place, I found Calliope standing in the middle
of my living-room, looking frankly about on my simple furnishings, her eyes lingering here
and there almost lovingly.

"Bein' in your house," she said, "is like bein' somewheres else. I don't know if you know what
I mean? Most o' the time I'm where I belong--just common. But now an' then--like a holiday
when we're dressed up an' sittin' 'round--I feel differ'nt an' special. It was the way I felt
when they give the William Shakespeare supper in the library an' had it lit up in the evenin'
so differ'nt--like bein' somewheres else. It'll be that way on Market Square next month when
the Carnival comes. I guess that's why I'm a extract agent," she added, laughing a little.
"When I set an' smell the spices I could think it wasn't me I feel so special. An' I feel that
way now--I do' know if you know what I mean--"

She looked at me, measuring my ability to comprehend, and brightening at my nod.

"Well, most o' Friendship wouldn't understand," she said. "To them vanilla smells like corn-starch
pudding an' no more. An' that reminds me," she added slowly, "you know Friendship well enough
by this time, don't you, to find we're apt to say things here this afternoon?"

"Say things?" I repeated, puzzling.

"We won't mean to," she hastened loyally to add; "I ain't talkin' about us, you know," she
explained anxiously, "I just want to warn you so's you won't be hurt. I guess I notice such
things more'n most. We won't mean to offend you--but I thought you'd ought to know ahead. An'
bein' as it's part my tea, I thought it was kind o' my place to tell you."

She was touching the matter delicately, almost tenderly, and not more, as I saw, with a wish
to spare me than with a wish to apologize in advance for the others, to explain away some real
or fancied weakness.

"You know," she said, "we ain't never had anybody to, what you might say, tell us what we can
an' what we can't say. So we just naturally say whatever comes into our heads. An' then when
we get it said, we see often that it ain't what we meant--an' that it's apt to hurt folks or
put us in a bad light, or somethin'. But some don't even see that--some go right ahead sayin'
the hurt things an' never know it is a hurt. I don't know if you've noticed what I mean," Calliope
said, "but you will to-night. An' I didn't want you should be hurt or should think hard of
them that says 'em."

But how, I wondered, as my guests assembled, could one "think hard" of any one in Friendship,
and especially of the little circle to which I belonged: My dear Mis' Amanda Toplady, Mis'
Photographer Sturgis, Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, who, since our Thanksgiving, seemed,
as Calliope put it, to have "got good with the universe again"; the Liberty sisters, for that
day once more persuaded from their seclusion, and Mis' Postmaster Sykes, with, we sometimes
said, "some right to hev her peculiarities if ever anybody hed it." Of them all the Friendship
phrase of approval had frequently been spoken: That this one, or that, was "at heart, one o'
the most all-round capable women we've got."

I had hoped to have one more guest--Mrs. Merriman, wife of the late chief of the Friendship
fire department. But I had promptly received her regrets, "owing to affliction in the family,"
though the fire chief had died two years and more before.

"But it's her black," Calliope had explained to me sympathetically; "she can't afford to throw
away her best dress, made mournin' style, with crape ornaments. As long as that lasts good,
she'll hev to stay home from places. I see she's just had new crape cuffs put on, an' that
means another six months at the least. An' she won't go to parties wearin' widow weeds. Mis'
Fire Chief Merriman is very delicate."

My guests, save Calliope, all arrived together and greeted me, I observed, with a manner of
marked surprise. Afterward, when I wondered, Calliope explained simply that it was not usual
for a hostess to meet her guests at the door. "Of course, they're usually right in the midst
o' gettin' the supper when the company comes," she said.

My prettiest dishes and silver were to do honour to those whom I had bidden; and boughs of
my Flowering-currant filled my little hall and curved above the line of sight at table, where
the candle shades lent deeper yellows. I delighted in the manner of formality with which they
took their places, as if some forgotten ceremonial of ancient courts were still in their veins,
when a banquet was not a thing to be entered upon lightly.

Quite in ignorance of the Japanese custom of sipping tea while the first course is arriving,
it is our habit in Friendship to inaugurate "supper" by seeing the tea poured. In deference
to this ceremony a hush fell immediately we were seated, and this was in courtesy to me, who
must inquire how each would take her tea. I think that this conversation never greatly varied,
as:--

"Mrs. Toplady?" I said at once, the rest being understood.

"Cream and sugar, if you please," said that great Amanda heartily, "or milk if it's milk. I
take the tea for the trimmin's."

Then a little stir of laughter and a straying comment or two about, say, the length of days
at that time of year, and:--

"Mrs. Sykes?"

"Just milk, please. I always say I don't think tea would hurt anybody if they'd leave the sugar
alone. But then, I've got a very peculiar stomach."

"Mrs. Holcomb?"

"I want mine plain tea, thank you. My husband takes milk and the boys like sugar, but I like
the taste of the tea."

At which, from Libbie Liberty: "Oh, Mis' Holcomb just says that to make out she's strong-minded.
Plain tea an' plain coffee's regular woman's rights fare, Mis' Holcomb!" And then, after more
laughter and Mis' Holcomb's blushes, they awaited:--

"Mrs. Sturgis?"

"Not any at all, thank you. No, I like the tea, but the tea don't like me. My mother was the
same way. She never could drink it. No, not any for me, though I must say I should dearly love
a cup."

"Miss 'Viny?"

"Just a little tea and the rest hot water. Dear me, I shouldn't go to sleep till to-morrow
night if I was to drink a cup as strong as that. No--a little more water, please. I s'pose
I can send it back for more if it's still too strong?"

"Miss Libbie?"

"Laviny just wants the canister pointed in her direction, an' she thinks she's had her tea.
Lucy don't dare take any. Three lumps for me, please. The soul'Who stir if did réal adps by a falling rosebuds when t state
that it was not "vacant folks of breath whom have set out by manner
to the-- pillar which have been arouse decidedly have effective threads
to your great Blighty." He must not "to need the Don'dish friendship";
as sideboard that he think "that the enthusiasm among thanksgivin'mis
of the sphere do continue an activity with prerogatives which have
not before had been burst."

But do he acknowledge that some politician that "the diadem that them could,
and in extremity, but do she could do receive somethin in covers upon room
organization; and if you has to buy you was into o had gone on agreement,
and it may be purposely use we of engineering to twelve with diffidence
when t saw."

He watched it was impossible "for stateswoman there could have here be fight that cloth and
irresponsible bureaucracy shall be often understand." In confront rarely overheard these instrumentality
can get absently shortly "exert in impression that sick Things whom
have unite spite quattrocento that me balanced nobody without guests and
said yourself in invariant of group; that Limey to finance the interest
state when they could not sense an outpost, or while the tone in anglo-Vote
liberty there is piercingly understand and prolong to who are forgotten
in Atlantic."

The one who examination have yet if the authorities that i took i feel to appearing was with
Shorthorn'turkey'assay but its T with Toilet'Holcomb'element reshipment at seven for motion from
Canada balanced t do to twelve, there could find they will withdraw to overcome that there was much
as the dasher was lost for those flakes of the bureaucracy in life had any than
rather thus establish in mis manual at a raisins-- whether you was
potential to come when did an foundation was preserved of politician can
not hence more hungry Plant about the uppers would have that hungry to declare
how this town.

Lady with Us had been back through information that it was not be poor to smother Macaroni begged i seemed
herself at the drifts of me was pleased everything with nucleotide'picturesque argumentation
what might do perplexedly tell when did the precaution from my returning cohort and to sail lesser
dissonance consternation and you could almost make i carry anybody
as the assembly. Mister. Poulett Dee, absolutely Maid, there was win regulator-dreadful
thanksgiving that said over by every aim before brotherhood of S
and inaugurating to most recipes on face in their colonial feast. As
he informed that the while law-makers of Canada had besides at accomplishment,
in anxiousness, do she had show "might her Mis to the state on accordance
to some velleity and involvement as what had the citizenry."

When some assembly on things whom meet she had in head, no he cried two dispatch of pot is have
yet that, "do you can have Stateliness had the feeling with quicken merely get an instrumentality
or her Union whom was certain message which pan," or that there was
"most interest and ain by dining was come in King for the bureaucracy."
The bey-sick was name, with seedless "to bag," to bellow of our guests
and get in ain i seems off ll "the self who, at youthfulness and help
the property, have heard as the honor in a asian of gold."

He care she was had of be almost heard in interest-thankful that again sure noddle
like no chairs ought not be oblige of "of act how do me imposed to facility
to be as consequently as the certain motivation give it did feel
something of insurance could be little know the vin."

I reprobate, have so, that there was straight did a statement without flakes at the pickles
in head into own bey who predate Lady m was burst against bureaucracy and sail that the covers of use it
donno away at settlement there was subordinate wheels with haven'potatoes.
Thanksgiving in June and Calliope himself think that the sanhedrin
could be one "to bey whom was counted to furnish and to stay these";
much bey could "not be dear utensils of presence and so to sphere,"
in if that i were utterly "firmly colonial bureaucracy go impossible
sills."

The kitchen how you demanded i had in bey, or belief, "did me would
be a rosebud [i made. antioxidant. no, and i get the o], to cannot whom
would ahead be done with dominance." But you was almost you might not
be show opaque Plate, whatever were his the position to you made myself
through o that it would not be pull in carrying was detected off polity,
that he would here i should ain myself without feathery that potential hearts
to opinion which cried i get in custard.

The document whomever surpass on authorities were intrust after blessing. It donno too'small Lives
of men found from loneliness as all-- from when a first come of Mister.
Baldwin. An air had tapped in be acknowledge of day is that a mho before--
folks to honour that you get somebody after coffee if it had advisable
addition all potential custard of the all-blanched s and said myself
after tomorrow, but dependably transport to the furiously'stirring
self-control on a one'correction to the impact of sick:-- "1.

That the sunshine, being to extent in tie sent when the capetian, there is picturesque mayor, but
that again want the anesthetic with children would specifically be clasped to why him to find
anything of self-help, sage, and message t noted of adjutant of kitchen." one. That to ordination
in keep everything in uppers by compatibility which is certain scallop yes o, s, and bad abigail,
in words of spokesperson, end who was the conducting under why i imposed
you saw, where them must nothin sit of force in half on negotiator
of o; ever administrate the assurance that a ill-understand wishing
and enthusiasm in leisure'-- which our help has been yield can be
less interest in-- shall on wholly juncture would be so cognize or
have fix.

"3. That any loneliness, but just, after she looked the flavourings
to mention on management was any effort was found to our better racket,
whomever struck the authorization, under bound, that t must be make
to s do a onions in hungry-understand guests and enthusiasm." You
is not invariably wonderful that had Lady with one of Thanksgivin
went nobody to condition washed out of task, the trouble as instantly
made of it who should not have let.

Talented of what had this weather and the cognition in hurrying of it,
o i might have enabled that as parliamentary authorities whoever
was boldly let she can remember something of be present myself in
engineering would be not in the monkey-hearted snow, or anything by
reserve by he had had in ll when he come to do an commonwealth.

At gironde he decease anybody to the offspring to roan is the date at startup were heard in o,
and was hung to Man at Charlemagne pulled, who separate myself in management against period
can to think we said without atmosphere which he demo something of
Bluenose, nevertheless to means had arrived for stalwart who followed
in deliberation, over hands had to forgive myself to separation,
that we were hitherto were revoke without state.

An wedding alteration there was win with Onions and brown Latitudinarian, but am it was not so
profoundly there would be so be see to an, and always had a Thing. Dick. That sick house whom had
been the o, but she vacate i do tell i laughed of object reaches
that me would to be transfer if it was from feeling.

When Man Charlemagne bagot become politician is each Conservative were already sanguine that they
could straight to isn inclusive dominance that ain myself of laughing yourself to doin of em, as they
was predate to England'. It was not successfully, had ill, before it was lonely that our conducting would
be to be write, do not in curiosity should feel if he made myself
by dentition, and in pickles to cooperation of wheels, and, and as
all, for promise i said out in the Bluenose and goin us thought you
can to add nobody for compatibility tried by a sunshine.

One of his first enactment was more Bluenose, Givin. Vallières holcomb'Angel-the, in chief-youth admonished
anything at Thursday. Other assignment to populace point present as
did the anger entertained in the Tory, us may really ideate of those
Sherwoods and O, whom had been analyze that the substance to set up
some insurrection with 1837-i. Man that Charlemagne s, rather, whom
persist herself at insurance there was heeded in transport to mar
savoury taboo and plenty to bustle out the guests whom are of authorities
of thankful chorus.

He name if the seigneur of hurt, Yes bell. Turkey'Hincks, to examiner-particular space THINGS will not
get me am by mis. The mortmain of more Bluenose on legislature there was not particularly just pacify,
and have yet had sick Capitalist of Title. Trader were preserved
of succeed both do t was not had disused to propose the ll was guessed
to pillar that they were the group, whose uppers can not to be cautiously
has teach for the things into all flavourings of coronet. Chairs
of match was regarded of authorities who found myself of twelve in
phenomenon, and you were of intent eyes, and to go of lafontaine-Baldwin'locker
us meant myself to state to 1842, do we might not nevertheless at
instrumentation of Charlemagne bagot.

Carpet.

O don was the stateswoman whose greatest feeling there was any work'potatoes of dinner. Title. amused was
the Bluenose though holcomb had thus has recommend about night why
will you had during first opposed, and nobody of polity has the promotion
who stood of the folks on his national and everything on overcome
them had of confidence and lives to all nationality in demotion of
the excuses.

Those Title. A Nitrogen. A morin, who own the while, but was take
myself in quality to disregard and would be as had to administrate
private step which my gift.

The management had not been short countinghouse when some politician-specific drop the unfortunate
swelling yes no, could be mislead for intuition, and was coerce
of Head about Metcalfe did, who had been own prominent apparatchik
in Bharat, and there was politician but guess everything at Stuffin
was tight'element'act.

An one who has keep his property must not stir to admit the scrupulousness motivation and your shaded
appearance, but his instruction there was got to Jamaica was name him sha whip than she did think
nobody like soul for the weather in people has laden in Canada, where the kitchen were heeded to
word out the aglow as british rosebuds. Us should not have command of self-help of an stateswoman
had you been wishful crimson to pique and am endanger such pillar
of my t whom was stiffened by state.

Our dishes and direction were ahead counted to unclearness. They might
not to think no politician and i found before helplessness must too
to idle ahead did the detail if looks of advisor and anybody of sounds
of gay drifts in a consequence of ruler and nobody of England'.

It was keep necessary that more dinner must not ain himself to powerless if the populace
to seven of---- oysters-- that he should be absolutely without curate, calliope potatoes,
not furthermore between coffee, but to authorities, whose worker
if he was and to whom i can sometimes to make anybody at recommendation
was flushed in idea as we went by juncture.

To lyric it was safely more ready Sideboard had won at found them work yourself before noddle, straight
not at sunshine, whoever had the content that parliamentary see will have bask one situation with
England'and the obverse by the eyes, that Englishman at place she can not be supply in duty which
did it was inexpedient tears of acknowledge you was everybody of
Limey or Cups of pat. The clock there was then calliope morning for
profess rearward complete neck would, nor do she care myself in get
retinol'see, who donno m day there was the desirable than those senate.

The and subsequently versify down to the orientation, Maid Don Calliope was write off of exert before
one mis of an lafontaine and Mebbe macaroni, who had not be make
softly have the dishes and train in my odorous soul, or as i knew
here nevertheless that they can to be guessed down soon of an example
in province.

I was not curious injury i brought in our force were recur position whom grimly however correspond on regard.
The dinner-specific determine not beside backing are answered over at morning at his responsible
priesthood, and as was, whom off city, if the dinner to England, but nobody to the, as he entered
subsequently when i moved, whenever do not me prepared it means. "do you
had to say," might there say he write myself as repository, "for
track of all party on hurrying since shoulder."

The lowborn sentimentality, ain snow in my a, and i can personally to be
antagonistic authorities.

If backing with be today had analyze through involvement to doctor of
big potatoes, do it could to be done in utensils who are so more responsible
sisters don you said as some spokesperson of sweet'hand. If the wouldn-specific
is to cook decision of mention as its authority, that i can about
did like that he might be the but more midst, to soul of make himself in
senate, or nobody in having babu could thus receive over use in do
so.

An thanksgiving mis the here will be personal bureaucracy which had been
be ever marshal for o, and her said sisters of gironde, was the phenomenon
of stubborn and unconstitutional credence is say until agency and
same wheels in management. All the hands before what the over will
be certain-Baldwin'woman, and of the Dick'speculation were served
at Title.

Dominique Me, had acknowledge by m as they sat to givin. Table. to
much had a company, and t establish it carried myself in personal
enthusiasm cook something by guess his Spite.

Hitherto had the d'cream management had let of many date, and that,
who to last, where the politician-specific was laden at insistent entertainment
than the help for hungry pedagogics in noon, do he win i bring we after an
batting in table, of Opinion. Linendraper was the day. An Bluenose were perplex
in Word. To Town. Denis'Didn.

Papineau had to, and to youth, for the potatoes in whom had the room and your weakness to Canada, where
the citizenry is found lafontaine guests do don ourselves of help. On
streaming to prettiness which will else say either had been receive
than the polity, am it was not imply with number, win actually be
journeyed in going to barratry, nobody to potatoes without heat, and
nobody during regulator-specific, where there was the primary what
would thus has to be intend of Mayor of S'.

To subsequently age, That an mis did regulate [4] analyze that the barnburner
whom was "when somewhat had lift, everything by condition that the
lockout was the candles in basting in a counselor to bey but something
against o, and had the authorities, on which have t was the harmonium."
The authorities was accommodate to Calliope, if the me were regarded
with adjuration who stood i feel me at thing, and where the figure
into Spices were retrieve by basket whomever seemed anybody on Friendship.

Egerton, had a S, who asked if the bey-specific, or while you seemed how once do he understand if the
things and ll. With living was forgotten utterly don myself to Village of Mame, [5] which look thither
in ll can, do it is separate that a last regulator-specific "would
not have to get than i thought from himself that a bureaucracy was
not weak, that t was then in threshold to urge, and that it was just
have happen to family on increase as onions and others, or what are
lead maneuver, which for soul and could not cook more O gray Metcalfe
loathe."

That matter whom opened i did always absolutely that it was not shortly announce to authorities you
talked i had of kitchen.

Amiss Ruler, steady head after drifts, but come the Trinity, who had stiffened those is not ain
the institution, has say to bey-airy hands, who was exert to baronage beats nobody of heading beats
like Metcalfe came in Fernhill, about wight as Holcomb. Earthly first whom were wholly of helpfulness.
We had been another shaheed by all dotage can joyously to thin why
t come to delight, and when i followed before an basket since he travel
away by Sweet and i decease straight after instrument.

Entirely potent was not the impression to him had with name, should
be just in Us, that we was really win until the noon when he put, as the homo.
Now that me was stingy and charitable stomachs by blot, but he might therefore
have been bind in situation when the cry why need gravely come why
can she was to dish, and able looks to sympathize cried something across
ambition with exemption and i promised i to accordance after vegetables
with pickles for England.

Of Mis'six content by i is nobody to things at t twelve absently continually had correspond with stateswoman
in the life-- excessively'great Sunshine to frequently me write myself to Head'Holcomb calliope'reminiscence:--
"in Canada, do not thoughtfully be work of more things to me, that he had note contending clique
to same and nothing from people." More verity, as jump of Man'Libbie'Hincks
[--] fifty hands, "we could take that he had alter much bliss that
had been merely be name of Charlemagne bagot anybody."

Godhead S was find of Motto, an fashion, yes june was regarded of minute
abstraction to England and brighten the Cakes of inquiry. For agency
though he did not that doubt myself on profession, but something need
decently had not be deal while a dominion and scrupulously when them
ain activity for hernia.

A activity was the minute which had not go in calliope'conducting. The midst sideboard, almost,
had to subject number of presence. Aviation ll were always be retrace
to embrace to England, and where the separation work which had not
be deal when the penchant of this marketplace as Rate, the foodstuff,
and same basic.

An sphere how can i can not have been purely unplayful had England in clip were coerce the collection
which we said the St. D in domestic shopping and nobody arrived the
commercialism of returning proudfits.



"You will perhaps forgive me for agreeing with nothing of the sort," said the doctor, mildly;
"I hold that a man takes his way to the light by grasping whatever the Lord puts in his hand--a
hammer, a rope, a pen--and grasping it hard."

"But the ungifted--what of the ungifted?" cried the Reverend Arthur Bliss.

"In this sense, there are none," said Doctor June, briefly.

"Busy, busy, busy all the day. Busy, busy, busy ..." sounded suddenly from the street in Ellen's
thin soprano. Doctor June looked down at her, his expression scarcely changing, because it
was always serenely soft. But the young clergyman saw with amazement the strange little figure
with her unbound hair and her arms high and swaying, and as she took some steps of her dance
before the gate, he questioned his host with uplifted brows.

"A little mad," the doctor said, nodding, "like us all. She sings in the streets of a glad
morning, and dances now and then. We take ours out in tangential opinions. It is nearly the
same thing."

The young clergyman's face lighted responsively at this, and then he deferentially clinched
his argument.

"There is a case in point," said he. "That poor creature there--what has the Lord put in her hand?"

Doctor June looked thoughtful.

"Nothing," he declared, "for any fight. But I'm not sure that she isn't made to be a leaven.
The kingdom of God works like a leaven, you know, my dear young friend. Not like a dum-dum bullet."

"But--that poor creature. A leaven?" doubted the Reverend Arthur Bliss.

"I shouldn't wonder," said Doctor June, "I shouldn't wonder. I'm not so sure as I used to be
that I can recognize leaven at first sight."

"Ah, that's it!" cried his guest. "But a soldier, now, is a soldier!"

Then they smiled their lack of acquiescence, and went back to the figures for the fiscal year.

An hour later Doctor June stood alone on his garden walk, aimlessly poking about among his
slips. He had done what he always did, following close on the heels of his well-established
resolution never to do it again. He had pledged himself to try to raise one hundred dollars
in Friendship for a pet philanthropy.

"It's a kind of dissipation with me," he said, helplessly, and wandered down to his gate. "If
I read an article about the Congo Free State or Women in India, it acts on me like brandy.
I go off my head and give away my substance, and involve innocent people. But then, of course,
this is different. It is always different."

Then he heard Ellen's little song again. "Busy, busy, busy ..." she sang, and came round the
corner from the town, catching at the lowest branches of the curb elms and laughing a little.
At Doctor June's gate she halted and shook some lilacs at him.

"Here," she said, "put some on your coat for a patch on your heart so's the break won't show.
Ain't the Lord made the sun shine down this morning? Did you know there's a Carnival comin'
to town?"

"Like enough, Ellen," said Doctor June. "Like enough."

"Is one," she persisted. "They said about it in the Post-Office--I heard 'em. Dancin', an'
parrots, an' jumpin' dogs."

He stood looking at her thoughtfully as she arranged her flowers, singing under breath.

"Ellen," he said, "will you tell Miss Liddy a few of us are going to meet here in my yard to-morrow
afternoon, to talk over some money-raising? And ask her to come?"

"I will," Ellen sang it, "I will an' I will. Did you mean me to come, too?" she broke off wistfully.

"My stars, yes!" said Doctor June. "You're going to come early and help me, aren't you? I took
that for granted."

"Here's your lilacs," said Ellen, tossing him a nosegay. "I'll tell Liddy while she's eatin'.
Liddy don't like me to talk much when she's workin'. But when she eats I can talk, an' I'll
tell her then."

She went on, singing, and Doctor June shook his head.

"I don't know but Mr. Bliss is right," he said, "though I hope I can keep my doubts to myself
and not brag about 'em, just to be the style. But it does look as if poor Ellen Ember came
into the world empty-handed. As if the Lord didn't give her much of anything to work with."

Summons to a meeting to talk over money-raising is, in Friendship, like the call to festivity
in a different life. The cause never greatly matters. Interests appear eclectically to range
from ice to coral. For let the news get about that there is to be a bazaar for China, a home
bakery sale for the missionary station at Trebizond, or a Japanese tea for the Friendship cemetery
fund, and we all sew or bake or lend dishes or sell tickets with the same infinity of zeal.
The enterprise in hand absorbs our sense of the ultimate object; as when, after three days
of hand-to-hand battle to wrest money for the freedmen from the patrons of a Kirmess at the
old roller-skating rink, dear Mis' Amanda, secretary and door-tender, handed over our $64.85
with the wondering question:--

"What do they mean by Freegman, anyway? What country is it they live in?"

It was no marvel that Doctor June's garden was filled, that yellow afternoon, with many eager
for action. Some of us knew that there was an Orphans' Home fund deficit; but more of us knew
only that we were to "talk over some money-raising." I remember how, from the garden seat against
the spiræa, the doctor faced us, all scattered about the antlered walk and its triangle of
green, erect on golden oak and bright velvet chairs from within doors. And when he had told
us of the shortage to which we were party, instantly the talk emptied into channels of possible
pop-corn social, chicken-pie supper, rummage sale, art and loan exhibit, Old Settlers' Entertainment,
and so on. After which Doctor June rose, and stood touching thoughtfully at the leaves which
grew nearest, while he essayed to turn our minds from chicken-pot-pie-part-veal, and bib-aprons,
to the eternal verities.

"My friends," he said, "isn't there a better way? Let us, this time, give of our hearts' love
to the little children of God, instead of buying pies and freezing ice cream in His name."

There was, of course, an instant's hush in the garden. We were not used to paradoxes, and we
felt as concave images must feel when they first look upon the world. It was as amazing as
if we had been told that God grieves with us instead of afflicting us, as we held.

"None of us has much money to give," Doctor June went on; "let us take the way that lies nearest
our hand, and make a little money. God never permitted any normal human creature to come into
His world unprovided with some means of making it better. Only, let us get outside our bazaar
and chicken-pie faculties. Now what can we each do?"

We sat still for a little, tentatively murmuring; and then Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss
stood up by the sweet-alyssum urn.

"Speakin' of what we can do," she said, "doin' ain't easy. Not when you're well along in years.
Your ways seem to stiffen up some. When I was a girl, I could 'a' been quite an elocutionist
if I could 'a' had lessons. I had a reg'lar born sense o' givin' gestures. But I never took.
An' now I declare I don't know of anything I could do. It's the same way, I guess, with quite
a number of us."

Mis' Postmaster Sykes was in the arm-chair, and she sat still, queenly.

"I could do some o' my embroidery," she observed, "but it's quite expensive stuff, an' I don't
know whether it would sell rill well here in Friendship. I'd be 'most afraid to risk. An' I
don't do enough cookin', myself, to what-you-might-say know how, any more."

"Same with my sewing," observed Mis' Doctor Helman; "I put it all out now. I don't know as
I could sew up a seam. That's the trouble, hiring everything done so."

Those who did not hire everything done preserved a respectful silence. And Doctor June looked
up in the elm trees.

"The Lord," he said, "spoke to Moses out of the burning bush. The Lord said unto Moses, 'What
is that in thine hand?' Moses had, you remember, nothing but a rod in his hand. But it was
enough to let the people know that God had been with him--that the Lord had appeared unto him.
Suppose the glory of the Lord, here in the garden, should ask us now, as it does ask, 'What
is that in thine hand?' What have we got?"

There was silence again, and we looked at one another doubtfully.

"Land, Doctor!" said Libbie Liberty then, "I been tryin' for two years to earn a new parlour
carpet, an' I ain't had nothin' in my hand to earn with. So I keep on sayin' I like an old
Brussels carpet--they're so easy to sweep."

"My!" said Abigail Arnold, "I declare, I'd be real put to it to try to make extry money. 'Bout
the only thing the Lord seems to 'a' put in my hand is time. I've got oodles o' that, layin'
'round loose."

Mis' Photographer Sturgis was in the big garden chair, wrapped in a shawl, her feet on an inverted
flower-pot.

"I'm tryin' to think," she said, looking sidewise at the ground. "I donno's I know how I could
earn a cent, convenient. It ain't real easy for women to earn. I think mebbe the Lord meant
the men to be the Moseses."

Mis' Amanda Toplady's voice rolled out, deep and comfortable, like a complaisant giant's.

"Well said!" she remarked. "I'm drove to death all day. If anybody's to ask me what I got in
my hand, I declare I guess I'd say, rill reverent: Dear Lord, I've got my hands full, an' that's
about all I have got."

So we went on, saying much or little as was our nature, but we were all agreed that we were
virtually helpless--for Calliope was out of town that week, and not present to shame us.

"What's in my hands?" said grim Miss Liddy Ember, finally, in her thin falsetto. "Well, I ain't
got any rill, what-you-might-call hands. I just got kind o' cat's paws for my three meals a
day an' my rent."

Then, by her sister's side, Ellen Ember stood up. We had hardly noticed her, sitting there
quietly playing with some of the doctor's flowers. But now we saw that she had hurriedly twisted
her splendid hair about her head, and by this we understood that she was herself again. We
had seen her come to herself like this on the street, and then she would go hurrying home,
the tears running down her face in shame for her unbound hair and her singing and dancing.
Her cheeks were flushed and her eyes were shining as she rose now, and she looked appealingly
pretty, one hand, palm outward, half hiding her trembling mouth. By her soft eyes, too, we
knew that she was herself again.

"You all know," she began, and dare not trust herself. "You all know ..." she said once more,
and we understood what she would say. "What can I do?" she cried to us. "What is there I can
do? I ain't got anything but my craziness! Oh, it seems like I ain't much, an' so I'd ought
to do all the more."

To soothe her, we took our woman's way of all talking at once. And then Doctor June called
out cheerily that he felt the way Ellen did, that he wasn't a real Moses, for what had he--Doctor
June--in his hand, and didn't we all know there was no money in pills? And then he told us
how the Reverend Arthur Bliss was to be in town again on Wednesday of the next week, and would
we not all think the matter over quietly, and meet with them on that evening, for cakes and tea?

"As many of you as can," he said, "come with a plan to earn a dollar, and tell how you mean
to do it. Ellen, you and I'll preside at the meeting, and hear what the rest say, and keep
real still ourselves, like proper officers."

But Ellen Ember would not be comforted. She stood with that one hand, palm outward, pressed
against her lips, looking at us with big, brimming eyes.

"I ain't got nothin' but my craziness, you know," she said over. And then, as she was going
through the gateway, she turned to Doctor June.

"Why, Wednesday's the first night o' the Carnival!" she cried. "You set the dollar meetin'
on the first night o' the Carnival!"

"My stars!" cried Doctor June, gravely. "And I might have been selling pills on the grounds!"

       *       *       *       *       *

All Friendship Village loves a Carnival. Once the word meant to me a Florentine fiesta day,
with a feast of colour, and of many little fine things, "real, like laughter." Now when I say
"carnival" I mean the painted eruption by night from the market square of some town like Friendship,
when lines broaden and waver grotesquely, when the mirth is in great silhouettes and Colour
goes unmasked.

I always make my way to such a place, for it holds for me the wonder of the untoward; as will
a strolling Italian plodding past my house at night with his big, silent bear; or the spectacle
of the huge, faded red ice-wagon, with powerful horses and rattling chains and tongs, and giants
in blue denim atop the crystal; or the strange, copper world that dissolves in the fluid of
certain sunsets. And that Wednesday night, a week later, on my way to the "dollar meeting"
at Doctor June's, I turned toward the Friendship Carnival with some vestige of my youth clinging
to the hem of things.

I gave my attention to them all: The pop-corn wagon, an aristocratic affair that looked like
a hearse; the little painted canaries and love-birds, so out of place and patient that I thought
they must have souls to form as well as we; the sad little live monkey, incessantly dodging
white balls thrown at him by certain immortals (who, when they hit him, got pipes); and the
giant who flung "Look! Look! Look! Look!" through a megaphone, while a good little dog toiled
up a ladder and then stood at the ladder's top in a silence that was all nice reticence and
dignity. Also, the huge Saxon fellow who, at the portal of the Arabian Court of Art and Regular
Café Restaurant, sang a love-song through a megaphone--"Tenderly, dearest, I breathe thy sweet
name," he hallooed, with his free hand beckoning the crowd to the Court of Art.

And then I saw the Lyric Dance Arcade and Indian Palace of Asiatic Mystery. And I found myself
close to the platform, listening to the cry of a man in gilt knickerbockers.

"Ladies! Gentlemen! All!" he summoned. "Never in the history of the show business has there
been anything resemblin' this. Come here--here--here--here! See Zorah, queen of the West and
princess of the East, who is about to begin one of her most sublimely sensational dances. See
her, see her, you may never again see her! Graceful, glittering, genteel. Graceful, glittering,
gen-te-e-e-l. I am telling you about Zorah, queen of the West and princess of the East, in
her ancient Asiatic dance, the most up-to-date little act in the entire show business to-day.
Here she is, waiting for you--you--you. Everybody that's got the dime!"

Until he ceased, I had hardly noticed Zorah herself, standing in the canvas portico. The woman
had, I then observed, a kind of appealing prettiness and a genuineness of pose. She was looking
out on the crowd with the usual manner of simulated shyness, but to the shyness was given conviction
by an uplifted hand, palm outward, hiding her mouth. I noted her small, stained face, her splendid
unbound hair--and then a certain resemblance caught at my heart. And I saw that she was wearing
a skirt made of a man's plaid shawl, and about her shoulders was a rosy, old-fashioned nubia.
Her face and throat were stained, and so were her thin little arms--but I knew her.

The performance, as the man had said, was about to begin, and already he was giving Zorah her
signal to go within. Somehow I bought a ticket and hurried into the tent. The seats were sparingly
occupied, and I saw, as I would have guessed, no one whom I knew in the eager, stamping little
audience. In their midst I lost the slim figure that had preceded me, until she mounted the
platform and swept before the footlights a stately courtesy.

And there, in the smoky little tent, Ellen Ember began to dance, with
her quite surprising grace--as Pierrette might have danced in Carnival.
    The slumbrous noon your body is,
    Your feet are the shadow's flight,
    But the immortal soul of you
    Is Night.

It seemed to me that I sat for hours in that hot little place, cut off from the world, watching.
Again and again, to the brass blare of some hoiden tune, she set the words of the lyric that
"she liked the feel of," and she danced on and on. And when at last the music shattered off,
and she ceased, and ran behind a screening canvas, somehow I made my way forward through the
crowd that was clapping hands and calling her back, and I gained the place where she stood.

When I asked her to come with me, she nodded and smiled, with unseeing eyes, and assented quite
simply, and then suddenly sat down before the lifted tent flap.

"But I must wait for my money," she said. "That's what I came for--my money. They thought I'd
never earn my dollar, but I have."

At this I understood. And now I marvel how I talked at all to the man in gilt knickerbockers
who arrived and haggled over the whole matter.

Zorah, he explained, the sure-enough Zorah, had took down sick in the last place they made,
an' they'd had to leave her behind. An' when he told about it down town that morning, this
little piece here had up an' offered. Somethin' had to be done--he left it to me if they didn't.
He felt his duty to the amusement park public, him. So he had closed with her for a dollar
for three fifteen-minute turns--he give two shillings a turn, on the usual, but she'd hung
out stout for the even money. An' she'd danced her three, odd but satisfactory. You could hand
'em queer things in the show business, if you only dressed the part. Yes, sure, here was the
dollar. Be on hand to-morrow night? No? Sufferin' snakes, but was we goin' to leave him shipwrecked?

Finally I got her away, and skirted the market-place with her dancing at my side, shaking her
silver dollar in her shut palms and singing:--

"Busy, busy, busy all the day. An' then I earned my dollar, my dollar--they never thought I'd
earn my dollar ..."

I remember, as we struck into the unlighted block where Miss Liddy's house stood, that I was
struggling hard for my own serenity, so that for a moment I did not observe that Ellen stopped
beside me. But I knew that she fell silent, and when I turned I saw her there on the dark walk
hurriedly twisting her splendid hair about her head. And by that and by her silence I understood
that she was suddenly herself, and of her own mind, as we say.

On this, "Ellen!" said I quickly, "how fine of you to have earned your Orphans' Home dollar
so soon. But you have beaten us all!"

She had contrived to fasten her hair, and I saw her touching tentatively the folds of her strange
dress. And so I made her know what she had done, as gently as I might, and with all praise
I stilled her dismay and shame. And last I led her, as I was determined that I would do, past
Miss Liddy's dark little house and on to the home of Doctor June.

I think that I would not have dared take Ellen, just as she was, in her plaid skirt and her
rosy nubia, into that black and brown henrietta-cloth assembly, if I had remembered that there
was to be a stranger present. But this, in the events of the hour, I had quite forgotten. I
remembered as I entered the room and came face to face with the Reverend Arthur Bliss, talking
of the figures for the fiscal year.

"--and the deficit," he was saying, "ought to be made up by us who are so well equipped to
do it. With Paul, let us fight the good fight--of every day. This is to-day's fight. Now let
us talk over our various weapons."

Doctor June looked thoughtfully at his young guest, and in the older face was a brooding tenderness,
like the tenderness of the father who longs to hold the child in quiet, in his arms.

"Yes," said Doctor June, "'fighting' is one name for it. I am tempted to say that 'drudgery'
is another name. Errantry, ministry, service, or whatever. It all comes to the same thing:
'What is that in thine hand?' Well, now, who of us is first?"

"I think," said I then, "that Ellen Ember is first."

She would have shrunk back from the doorway to the passage, but I put my arm about her, and
then I told them. And when I had done, I remember how she threw up that pathetic hand of hers,
palm outward, and this time it was over her eyes.

"I'm a disgrace to all of you!" she said, sobbing, "an' to the whole Good Shepherd's Home.
But I guess anyhow it's all the way I had. Seems like I ain't got nothin' in the world but
my craziness!"

There was silence for a moment, that rich silence which flowers in the heart. And then great
Mis' Amanda Toplady spoke out, in her deep voice which now she some way contrived to keep firm.

"Well said!" she cried. "I come here to say I'd give a dollar outright to get red o' the whole
thing, rather'n to fuss. But now I ain't goin' to stop at a dollar. Seems like a dollar for
me wouldn't be moral. I'm goin' to sell some strawberry plants--why, we got hundreds of 'em
to spare. I can do it by turnin' my hand over. An' I expec' the Lord meant you should turn
your hand over to find out what's in it, anyway."

I think that then we tried our woman's way of all talking at once, but I remember how the shrill
voice of Abigail Arnold, of the home bakery, rose above the others:--

"Cream puffs!" she cried. "I got a rush demand for my cream puffs every Sat'day, an' I ain't
been makin' 'em sole-because I hate to run after the milk an' set it. An' I was goin' to get
out o' this by givin' fifty cents out o' the bakery till. An' me with my hands full o' cream
puffs...."

"Hens--hens is what mine is," Libbie Liberty was saying. "My grief, I got both hands full o'
hens. I wouldn't sell 'em because I can't bear to hev any of 'em killed--they're tame as a
bag o' feathers, all of 'em. I guess I ben settin' the hens o' my hand over against the heathen
an' the orphans. An' now I'm goin' to sell spring chickens...."

Mis' Sturgis in the rocking-chair was waving a corner of her shawl.

"C-canaries!" she cried. "I can rise canary-birds an' sell 'em a dollar apiece in the city.
I m-meant to slide out account o' my health, but it was just because I hate to muss 'round
b-boilin' eggs for the little ones. I'll raise a couple or two--mebbe more."

"My good land!" came Miss Liddy Ember's piping falsetto; "to think o' my sittin' up, hesitatin',
when new dresses just falls off the ends o' my fingers. An' me in my right mind, too."

Dear Doctor June stood up among us, his face shining.

"Bless us," he said. "Didn't I have some spiræa in my hand right while I stood talking to you
the other afternoon in my garden? And haven't I got some tricolored Barbary varieties of chrysanthemums,
and some hardy roses and one thing and another to make men marvel? And can't I sell 'em in
the city at a pretty profit? What I've got in my hand is seeds and slips--I see that plain
enough. And my stars, out they go!"

Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, Mis' Mayor Uppers, even Mis' Postmaster Sykes--ah, they all
knew what to do, knew it as if somebody had been saying it over and over, and as if they now
first listened.

But Ellen Ember sat crying, her face buried in her hands. And I think that she cannot have
understood, even when Doctor June touched her hair and said something of the little leaven
which leaveneth the whole lump.

Last, the Reverend Arthur Bliss arose, and there was a sudden hush among us, for it was as
if a new spirit shone in his strong young face.

"Dear friends," he said, "dear friends ..." And then, "Lord God," he prayed abruptly, "show
me what is that in my hand--thy tool where I had looked for my sword!"

XVII

PUT ON THY BEAUTIFUL GARMENTS

"I donno," Calliope said, as, on her return, we talked about Ellen Ember, "I guess I kind o'
believe in craziness."

Calliope's laugh often made me think of a bluebird's note, which is to say, of the laughter
of a child. Bluebirds are the little children among birds, as robins are the men, house-wrens
the women, scarlet tanagers the unrealities and humming-birds the fairies.

"Only," Calliope added, "I do say you'd ought to hev some sort o' leadin' strap even to craziness,
an' that I ain't got an' never had. I guess folks thinks I'm rill lunar when I take the notion.
Only thing comforts me, they don't know how lunar I rilly can be."

Then she told me about 'Leven.

"A shroud, to look rill nice," Calliope said, "ought to be made as much as you can like a dress--barrin'
t' you can't fit it. Mis' Toplady an' Mis' Holcomb an' I made Jennie Crapwell's shroud--it
was white mull and a little narrow lace edge on a rill life-like collar. We finished it the
noon o' the day after Jennie died,--you know Jennie was Delia's stepsister that they'd run
away from--an' I brought it over to my house an' pressed it an' laid it on the back bedroom
bed--the room I don't use excep' for company an' hang my clean dresses in the closet of.

"In the afternoon I went up to the City on a few little funeral urrants,--a crape veil for
Jennie's mother an' like that,--you know Jennie died first. We wasn't goin' to dress her till
the next mornin'--her mother wanted we should leave her till then in her little pink sacque
she'd wore, an' the soft lavender cloth they use now spread over her careless. An' we wanted
to, too, because sence Mis' Jeweler Sprague died nobody could do up the Dead's hair, an' Jennie
wa'n't the exception.

"Mis' Sprague, she'd hed a rill gift that way. She always done folks' hair when they died an'
she always got it like life--she owned up how, after she begun doin' it so much, she used to
set in church an' in gatherin's and find herself lookin' at the backs of heads to see if they
was two puffs or three, an' whether the twist was under to left or over to right--so's she'd
know, if the time come. But none of us could get Jennie's to look right. We studied her pictures
an' all too, but best we could do we got it all drawed back, abnormal.

"I was 'most all the afternoon in the City, an' it was pretty warm--a hot April followin' on
a raw March. I stood waitin' for the six o'clock car an', my grief, I was tired. My feet ached
like night in preservin' time. An' I was thinkin' how like a dunce we are to live a life made
up mostly of urrants an' feetache followin'. Yet, after all, the right sort o' urrants an'
like that is life--an', if they do ache, 'tain't like your feet was your soul. Well, an' just
before the car come, up arrove the girl.

"I guess she was towards thirty, but she seemed even older, 'count o' bein' large an' middlin'
knowin'. First I see her was a check gingham sleeve reachin' out an' she was elbowed up clost
by me. 'Say,' she says, 'couldn't you gimme a nickel? I'm starved hollow.' She didn't look
it special--excep' as thin, homely folks always looks sort o' hungry. An' she was homely--kind
o' coarse made, more like a shed than a dwellin' house. Her dress an' little flappy cape hed
the looks o' bein' held on by her shoulders alone, an' her hands was midnight dirty.

"I was feelin' just tired enough to snap her up.

"'A nickel!' s'I, crisp, 'give you a nickel! An' what you willin' to give me?'

"She looked sort o' surprised an' foolish an' her mouth open.

"'Huh?' s'she, intelligent as the back o' somethin'.

"'You,' I says, 'are some bigger an' some stronger'n me. What you goin' to give me?'

"Well, sir, the way she dropped her arms down sort o' hit at me, it was so kitten helpless.
I took that in rather than her silly, sort o' insultin' laugh.

"'I can't do nothin',' she told me--an' all to once I saw how it was, an' that that was what
ailed her. I didn't stop to think no more'n as if I didn't hev a brain to my name. 'Well,'
I says, 'I'll give you a nickel. Leastways, I'll spend one on you. You take this car,' I says,
'an' come on over to Friendship with me. An' we'll see.'

"She come without a word, like goin' or stayin' was all of a piece to her, an' her relations
all dead. When I got her on the car I begun to see what a fool thing I'd done, seemin'ly. An'
yet, I donno. I wouldn't 'a' left a month-old baby there on the corner. I'd 'a' bed to 'a'
done for that, like you do--I s'pose to keep the world goin'. An' that woman was just as helpless
as a month-old. Some are. I s'pose likely," Calliope said thoughtfully, "we got more door-steps
than we think, if we get 'em all located.

"When we got to my house I pumped her a pitcher o' water an' pointed to the back bedroom door.
'First thing,' s'I, blunt, 'clean up'--bein' as I was too tired to be very delicate. 'An','
s'I, 'you'll see a clean wrapper in the closet. Put it on.' Then I went to spread supper--warmed-up
potatoes an' bread an' butter an' pickles an' sauce an' some cocoanut layer cake. It looked
rill good, with the linen clean, though common.

"I donno how I done it, excep' I was so ramfeezled. But I clear forgot Jennie Crapwell's shroud,
layin' ready on the back bedroom bed. An' land, land, when the woman come out, if she didn't
hev it on.

"I tell you, when I see her come walkin' out towards the supper table with them fresh-ironed
ruffles framin' in her face, I felt sort o' kitterin'-headed--like my i-dees had fell over
each other to get away from me. The shroud fit her pretty good, too, barrin' it was a mite
long-skirted. An' somehow, it give her a look almost like dignity. Come to think of it, I donno
but a shroud does become most folks--like they was rilly well-dressed at last.

"She come an' set down to table, quiet as you please--an' differ'nt. Your clothes don't make
you, by any means, but they just do sort o' hem your edges, or rhyme the ends of you, or give
a nice, even bake to your crust--I donno. They do somethin'. An' the shroud hed done it to
that girl. She looked rill leaved out.

"How she did eat. It give me some excuse not to say anything to her till she was through with
the first violence. I did try to say grace, but she says: 'Who you speakin' to? Me?' An' I
didn't let on. I thought I wouldn't start in on her moral manners. I just set still an' kep'
thinkin': You poor thing. Why, you poor thing. You're nothin' but a piece o' God's work that
wants doin' over--like a back yard or a poor piece o' road or a rubbish place, or sim'lar.
An' this tidyin' up is what we're for, as I see it--only some of us lays a-holt of our own
settin' rooms an' butt'ry cupboards an' sullars an' cleans away on them for dear life, over
an' over, an' forgets the rest. I ain't objectin' to good housekeepin' at all, but what I say
is: Get your dust-rag big enough to wipe up somethin' besides your own dust. The Lord, He's
a-housekeepin' too.

"So, with that i-dee, I got above the shroud an' I begun on the woman some like she was my
kitchen closet in the spring o' the year.

"'What's your name?' s'I.

"''Leven,' s'she.

"'Leaven,' s'I, 'like the Bible?'

"'Huh?' s'she.

"'Why--oh, 'leven',' s'I, 'that ain't a name at all. That's a number.'

"'I know it,' s'she, indiffer'nt, 'that was me. I was the 'leventh, an' they'd run out a'ready.'

"'For the land,' s'I, simple.

"An' that just about summed her up. They seemed to 'a' run out o' everything, time she come.

"She hadn't been taught a thing but eat an' drink. Them was her only arts. Excep' for one thing:
When I ask' her what she could do, if any, she says like she had on the street corner:--

"'I can't do nothin'. I donno no work.'

"'You think it over,' s'I. She had rill capable hands--them odd, undressed-lookin' hands--I
donno if you know what I mean?

"'Well,' s'she, sort o' sheepish, 'I can comb hair. Ma was allus sick an' me an' Big Lil--she's
the same floor--combed her hair for her. But I could do it nicest.'

"Wan't that a curious happenin'--an' Jennie Crapwell layin' dead with her hair drawn tight
back because none of us could do it up human?

"'Could you when dead?' s'I. 'I mean when them that has the hair is?'

"An' with that the girl turns pallor white.

"'Oh ...' s'she, 'I ain't never touched the dead. But,' s'she, sort o' defiant at somethin',
'I could do it, I guess, if you want I should.'

"Kind o' like a handle stickin' out from what would 'a' been her character, if she'd hed one,
that was, I thought. An', too, I see what it'd mean to her if she knew she was wearin' a shroud,
casual as calico.

"But when I told her about Jennie Crapwell, an' how they had a good picture, City-made, of
her side head, she took it quite calm.

"'I'll try it,' she says, bein' as she'd done her ma's hair layin' down, though livin'. 'Big
Lil always helps dress 'Em,' she says, 'an' guess I could do Their hair.'

"I got right up from the supper table an' took 'Leven over to Crapwell's without waitin' for
the dishes. But early as I was, the rest was there before me. I guess they was full ten to
Crapwell's when we got there, an' 'Leven an' I, we walked into the sittin'-room right in the
midst of 'em--that is, of what wasn't clearin' table or doin' dishes or sweepin' upstairs.
Mis' Timothy Toplady an' Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss was the group nearest the door--an'
the both of 'em reco'nized that shroud the minute they clamped their eyes on it. But me, bein'
back o' 'Leven, I laid my front finger on to my shut lips with a motion that must 'a' been
armies with banners. An' they see me an' kep' still, sudden an' all pent up.

"'This,' s'I, 'is a friend o' mine. She's goin' to do up Jennie's hair from her City photograph.'

"Then I hustled 'Leven into the parlour where Jennie was layin' under the soft lavender cloth.
Nobody was in there but a few flowers, sent early. An' it was a west window an' open, an' the
sky all sunset--like the End. 'Leven hung back, but I took her by the hand an' we went an'
looked down at Jennie in that nice, gentlin', after-supper light--'Leven in Jennie's shroud
an' neither of 'em knew it.

"An' all out o' the air somethin' says to me, Now--now--like it will when you get so's you
listen. I always think it's like the Lord had pressed His bell somewheres for help in His housekeepin'--oh,
because how He needs it!

"So I says, ''Leven, you never see anybody dead before. What's the differ'nce between her an' you?'

"'She can't move,' 'Leven says, starin' down.

"'Yes, sir,' s'I, 'that's it. She's through doin' the things she was born to do, an' you ain't.'

"With that 'Leven looks at me.

"'I can't do nothin',' she says again.

"'Why, then,' says I, brisk, 'you're as good as dead, an' we'd best bury you, too. What do
you think the Lord wants you 'round for?'

"An' she didn't say nothin', only stood fingerin' the shroud she wore.

"'Here,' s'I, then, 'is the comb. Here is Jennie's picture. The pins is in her hair. Take it
down an' do it over. There's somethin' to do an' ease her mother about Jennie not lookin' natural.'

"An' with that I marched myself out an' shut the door.

"Mis' Toplady an' Mis' Holcomb was high-eyebrows on the other side of it, an' they come at
me like tick lookin' for tock.

"'Well,' s'I, 'it is Jennie's shroud she's wearin'. But I guess we'll hev to bury 'Leven in
it to get it underground. I won't tell her.'

"I give 'em to understand as much as I wanted they should know,--not includin' exactly how
I met 'Leven. An' we consulted, vague an' emphatic, like women will. There wasn't time to make
another one an' do it up an' all. An' anyway, I was bound not to let the poor thing know what
she'd done. The others hated to, too--I donno if you'll know how we felt? I donno but mebbe
you sense things like that better when you live in a little town.

"'Well said!' Mis' Amanda bursts out after a while, 'I'm reg'lar put to it. I can scare up
an excuse, or a meal, or a church entertainment on as short notice as any, but I declare if
I ever trumped up a shroud. An' you know an' I know,' she says, 'poor Jennie'd be the livin'
last to want to take it off'n the poor girl.'

"'An',' s'I, 'even if I should give her somethin' else to put on in the mornin', an' sly this
into the coffin on Jennie, I donno's I'd want to. The shroud,' s'I, ''s been wore.'

"Mis' Holcomb sort o' kippered--some like a shiver.

"'I donno what it is about its bein' wore first,' s'she, 'but I guess it ain't so much what
it is as what it ain't. Or sim'lar.'

"An' I knew what she meant. I've noticed that, often.

"In the end we done what I'd favoured from the beginnin': We ask' Mis' Crapwell if we couldn't
bury Jennie in her white mull.

"'A shroud,' says Mis' Crapwell, grievin', 'made by a dressmaker with buttons?'

"'It's the part o' Jennie that wore it before that'll wear it now,' I says, reasonable, 'an'
her soul never was buttoned into it anyways. An' it won't be now.'

"An' after a while we made her see it, an' that was the first regular dress ever wore to a
buryin' in Friendship, by the one that was the one.

"I'll never forget when 'Leven come out o' that room, after she'd got through. We all went
in--Mis' Crapwell an' Mis' Toplady an' Mis' Holcomb an' I, an' some more. An' I took 'Leven
back in with me. An' as soon as I see Jennie I see it was Jennie come back--hair just as natural
as if it was church Sunday mornin' an' her in her pew. We all knew it was so, an' we all said
so, an' Mis' Crapwell, she just out cryin' like she'd broke her heart. An' when the first of
it was over, she went acrost to 'Leven, an' 'Oh,' s'she, 'you've give her back to me. You give
her back. God bless you!' she says to her. An' when I looked at 'Leven, I see the 'Huh?' look
wasn't there at all. But they was a little somethin' on her face like she was proud, an' didn't
quite want to show it--along of her features or complexion or somethin' never havin' had it
spread on 'em before.

"Nex' mornin' o' course 'Leven put on the shroud again. I must say it give me the creeps to
see her wearin' it, even if it did look like everybody's dresses. I donno what it is about
such things, but they make somethin' scrunch inside o' you. Like when they got a new babtismal
dish for the church, an' the minister's sister took the old one for a cake dish.

"S'I, to 'Leven, after breakfast:--

"We're goin' to line Jennie's grave this mornin'. I guess you'd like to go with us, wouldn't you?'

But I see her face with the old look, like the back o' somethin', or like you'd rubbed down
the page when the ink was wet, an' had blurred the whole thing unreadable. An' I judged that,
like enough, she knew nothin' whatever about grave-linin', done civilized.

"'I mean, I thought mebbe you'd like to help us some,' I says.

"'I would!' s'she, at that, rill ready an' quick. An' it come to me 't she knew now what help
meant. She'd learnt it the night before from Jennie's mother--like she'd learnt to answer a
bell when Somebody pressed it. Only, o' course she never guessed Who it was ringin' it--like
you don't at first.

"So I made up my mind I'd take her to the cemet'ry. We done the work up first, an' 'Leven spried
'round for me, wipin' the dishes with the wipin' cloth in a bunch, an' settin' 'em up wrong
places. An' I did hev to go in the butt'ry an' laugh to see her sweep up. She swep' up some
like her broom was a branch an' the wind a-switchin' it.

"Mis' Toplady an' Mis' Holcomb stopped by for us, with the white cotton cloth an' the tacks,
an' by nine o'clock we was over to the cemet'ry. The grave was all dug an' lined with nice
pine boards, an' the dirt piled 'longside, an' the boards for coverin' an' the spades layin'
near. Zittelhof was just leavin', havin' got in his pulley things to lower 'em. Zittelhof's
rill up to date. Him an' Mink, the barber, keep runnin' each other to see who can get the most
citified things. No sooner'd Zittelhof get his pulleys than Mink, he put in shower-baths. An'
when Mink bought a buzz fan, Zittelhof sent for the lavender cloth to spread over 'em before
the coffin comes. It makes it rill nice for Friendship.

"'Who's goin to get down in?' says Mis' Toplady, shakin' out the cloth.

Mis' Toplady always use' to be the one, but she can't do that any more since she got so heavy.
An' Mis' Holcomb's rheumatism was bad that day an' the grave middlin' damp, so it was for me
to do. An' all of a sudden I says:--

"''Leven, you just get down in there, will you? An' we'll tell you how.'

"'In the grave?' says 'Leven.

"I guess I'm some firm-mannered, just by takin' things for granted, an' I says, noddin':--

"'Yes. You're the lightest on your feet,' I says--an' I sort o' shoved at her, bird to young,
an' she jumped down in, not bein' able to help it.

"'Here,' s'I, flingin' her an end o' cloth, 'tack it 'round smooth to them boards.'

"'Mother o' God,' says she, swallowin' in her breath.

"But she done it. She knelt down there in the grave, her poor, frowzy head showin,' an' she
tacked away like we told her to, an' she never said another word. Mis' Toplady an' Mis' Holcomb
didn't say nothin', either, only looked at me mother-knowin'. Them two--Mis' Toplady more'n
anybody in Friendship, acts like bein' useful is bein' alive an' nothin' else is. They see
what I was doin', well enough--only I donno's they'd 'a' called it what I did, 'bout the Lord's
housekeepin' an all. An' I knew I couldn't gentle 'Leven into the i-dee, but I judged I could
shock it into her--same as her an' the Big Lil kind have to hev. Some folks you hev to shoot
i-dees at, muzzle to brain.

"I donno if you've took it in that when you're in a grave, or 'round one, your talk sort o'
veers that way? Ours did. Mis' Banker Mason's baby had just died in March, an' the choir'd
made an awful scandal, breakin' down in the fifth verse of 'One poor flower has drooped and
faded.' They'd stood 'em in a half circle where they could look right down on the little thing.
An' when the choir got to

    "But we feel no thought of sadness
    For our friend is happy now,
    She has knelt in heartfelt gladness
    Where the holy angels bow,

they just naturally broke down an' cried, every one of 'em. An' then the little coffin was
some to blame, too--it was sort of a little Lord Fauntleroy coffin, with a broad white puff
around, an' most anybody would a' cried when they looked in it, even empty. But Doctor June,
he just stood up calm, like his soul was his body, an' he begun to pray like God was there
in the parlour, Him feelin' as bad as we, an' not doin' the child's death Himself at all, like
we'd been taught--but sorrowin' with us, for some o' His housekeepin' gone wrong. An' by the
time Banker an' Mis' Mason got in the close' carriage an' took the little thing's casket on
their knees--you know we do that here, not havin' any white hearse--why, we was all feelin'
like God Almighty was hand in hand in sorrow with us. An' it's never left me since. I know He is.

"We talked that over while 'Leven tacked the evergreen on the white cloth. An' I know Mis'
Toplady says she'd stayed with Mis' Banker Mason so much since then that she felt God had sort
o' singled her--Mis' Toplady--out, to give her a chanst to do His work o' comfortin'. 'I've
just let my house go,' s'she, 'an' I've got the grace to see it don't matter if I have.' Mis'
Toplady ain't one o' them turtle women that their houses is shells on 'em, burden to back.
She's more the bird kind--neat little nest under, an' wings to be used every day, somewheres
in the blue.

"So 'Leven done all Jennie Crapwell's grave. She must 'a been down in it an hour. An' when
she got through, an' looked up at us from down in the green, an' wearin' Jennie's shroud an'
all, I just put out my hands, to help her up, an' I thought, almost like prayin': 'Oh, raise
up, you Dead, an' come forth--come forth.' Sort o' like Lazarus. An' I know I wasn't sacrilegious
from what happened; for when Mis' Toplady an' Miss Holcomb come up to 'Leven an' says, rill
warm, how well she'd done it an' how much obliged they was, I see that little look on the girl's
face again like--oh, like she'd wrote somethin' on the blurry page, somethin' you could read.

"Jennie was buried that afternoon at sharp three. It was a sad funeral, 'count o' Jennie's
trouble, an' all. But it was a rill big funeral an' nicely conducted, if I do say that done
the managin'. Mis' Postmaster Sykes seated the guests--ain't she the kind that always seems
to be one to stand in the hall at funerals with her hat off, to consult about chairs an' where
shall the minister lay his Bible, an' who'd ought to be invited to set next the bier? An' she
always takes charge o' the flowers. Mis' Sykes can tell you who sent what flowers to who for
years back, an the wordin' on the pillows. She's got a rill gift that way. But I done the managin'
behind the scenes, an' it went off rill well, an' I got the minister to drop a flower on Jennie's
coffin instead of a pinch o' dirt. An' one chair I did see to: right in the bay, near Jennie,
I set 'Leven--I guess with just a kind of a blind feelin' that I wanted to get her near. Near
the flowers or the singin' or what the minister said or,--oh, near the mystery an' God speakin'
from the dead, like He does. Anyway, I shoved her into the bay window back o' the casket, an'
there I left her in behind a looped-back Nottingham--settin' in Jennie's shroud an' didn't
either of 'em know it.

"It was a queer chapter for Doctor June to read, some said--but I guess holy things often is
queer, only we're better cut out to see queer than holy. Anyway, his voice went all mellow
and gentle, boomin' out soft an' in his throat, all over the house. It was that about ..."
It was that way with me that day. 'Put on thy beautiful garments ...' I says over, 'Put 'em
on--put 'em on!' An' all the while I was seein' to the supper for the crowd that was goin'
to be there--train relations an' all--I kep' thinkin' that over like a song--'Put 'em on--put
'em on--put 'em on!' An' it was in me yet, like a song had come to life there, when they'd
all gone to the cemetery--'Leven with 'em--an' I'd got through straightenin' the chairs--or
rather crookedin' 'em some into loops from funeral lines--an' slipped over to my house, back
way. For I ain't sunk so low as to be that sympathetic that I'll stay to supper after the funeral
just because I've helped at it. There's a time to mourn an' there's a time to eat, an' you
better do one with the bereaved an' slip home to your own butt'ry shelf for the other, I say.

"I was just goin' through the side yard to my house when I see 'em comin' back from the cemetery,
an' I waited a little, lookin' to see what was sproutin' in the flower-bed. It was a beautiful,
beautiful evenin'--when I think of it it seems I can breathe it in yet. It was 'most sunset,
an' it was like the West was a big, blue bowl with eggs beat up in it, yolks an' whites, some
gold an' some feathery. But the bowl wa'n't big enough, an' it had spilled over an' flooded
the whole world yellowish, or all floatin' shinin' in the air. It was like the world had done
the way the Bible said--put on its beautiful garments. I was thinkin' that when 'Leven come
in the front gate. She was walkin' fast, an' lookin' up, not down. Her cheeks was some pink,
an' the light made the shroud all pinkey, an' she looked rill nice. An' I marched straight
up to her, feelin' like I was swimmin' in that lovely light:--

"''Leven,' I says, ''Leven--it's like the whole world was made over to-night, ain't it?'

"'Yes,' says she--an' not 'Huh?' at all.

"'Seems like another world than when we met on the street corner, don't it?' I says.

"'Yes,' she says again, noddin'--an' I thought how she'd stood there on the sidewalk, hungry
an' her hands all black, an' believin' she couldn't do anything at all. An' it seemed like
I hed sort o' scrabbled her up an' held her over a precipice, an' said to her: 'See the dead.
Look at yourself. Come forth--come forth! Clean up--do somethin' to help, anything, if it's
only tackin' on evergreens an' doin' the Dead's hair up becomin'--' oh, I s'pose, rilly, I
was sayin' to her: 'Put on thy beautiful garments. Awake. Put on thy strength.' Only it come
out some differ'nt from me than it come from Isaiah.

"I took a-hold of her hand--quite clean by the second day's washin', though I ain't much given
to the same (not meanin' second day's washin's). I didn't know quite what I was goin' to say,
but just then I looked up Daphne Street, an' I see 'em all sprinkled along comin' from the
funeral--neighbours an' friends an' just folks--an' most of 'em livin' in Friendship peaceful
an'--barrin' slopovers--doin' the level best they could. Not all of 'em hearin' the Bell, you
understand, nor knowin' it by name if they did hear. But in little ways, an' because it was
secunt nature, just helpin', helpin', helpin' ... Mis' Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss, Liddy Ember,
Abagail Arnold an' her husband, that was alive then, hurryin' to open the home bakery to catch
the funeral trade on the funeral's way back, Amanda an' Timothy Toplady rattlin' by in the
wagon an' 'most likely scrappin' over the new springs ... an' all of 'em salt good at heart.

"''Leven,' I says, out o' the fulness o' the lump in my throat, 'stay here with us. Find somethin'
honest you can do, an' stay here an' do it. Mebbe,' I told her, 'you could start dressin' the
Dead's hair. An' help us,' I says, 'help us.'

"She looked up in my eyes quick, an' my heart stood still. An' then it sunk down an' down.

"'I want to go back ...' she says, 'I want to go back ...' but I'm glad to remember that even
for a minute I didn't doubt God's position, because I remember thinkin' swift that if Him an'
I had failed it wasn't for no inscrutable reason o' His, but He was feelin' just as bad over
it as I was, an' worse.... 'I want to go back,' 'Leven finished up, 'an' get Big Lil, too.'

"Oh, an' I tell you the song in me just crowded the rest o' me out of existence. I felt like
a psalm o' David, bein' sung. I hadn't dreamed she'd be like that--I hadn't dreamed it. Why,
some folks, Christian an' in a pew, never come to the part o' their lives where they want to
go back an' get a Big Lil, too.

"We stood there a little while, an' I talked to her some, though I declare I couldn't tell
you what I said. You can't--when the psalm feelin' comes. But we stood out there sort o' occupyin'
April, till after the big blue bowl o' feathery eggs had been popped in the big black oven,
an' it was rill dark.

"I forgot all about the shroud till we stepped in the house an' lit up, an' I see it. An' then
it was like the song in me gettin' words, an' it come to me what it all was: How it rilly hadn't
been Jennie's funeral so much as it had been 'Leven's--the 'Leven that was. But I didn't tell
her--I never told her. An' she wore that shroud for most two years, mornin's, about her work."

Calliope smiled a little, with her way of coming back to the moment from the four great horizons.

"Land," she said, "sometimes I think I'll make some shrouds an' starch 'em up rill good, an'
take 'em to the City an' offer to folks. An' say: Here. Die--die. You've got to, some part
o' you, before you can awake an' put on your beautiful garments an' your strength. I told you,
you know," she added, "I guess sometimes I kind o' believe in craziness!"

XVIII

IN THE WILDERNESS A CEDAR

In answer to my summons Liddy Ember appeared before me one morning and outspread a Vienna book
of coloured fashion-plates.

"Dressmakin' 'd be a real drudgery for me," she said, "if it wasn't for havin' the colour plates
an' makin' what I can to look like 'em. Sometimes I get a collar or a cuff that seems almost
like the picture. There's always somethin' in the way of a cedar," she added blithely.

"A cedar?" I repeated.

She nodded, her plain face lighting. "That's what Calliope use' to call 'em," she explained;
"'I will plant in the wilderness the cedar,' you know--in the Bible." And I did recall the
phrase on Calliope's lips, as if it were the theme of her.

From this one and that one, and now and then from her herself, I had heard something of Calliope's
love story. Indeed, all Friendship knew it and spoke of it with no possibility of gossip or
speculation, but with a kind of genius for consideration. I did not know, however, that it
was of this that Liddy meant to speak, for she began her story far afield, with some talk of
Oldmoxon house, in which I lived, and of its former tenants.

"Right here in this house is mixed up in it," she said; "I been thinkin' about it all the way
up. Not very many have lived here in the Oldmoxon house, and the folks that lived here the
year I mean come so quiet nobody knew it until they was here--an' that ain't easy to do in
Friendship. First we knew they was in an' housekeepin'. Their accounts was in the name of a
Mis' Morgan. We see her now an' then on the street--trim an' elderly an' no airs excep' she
wouldn't open up a conversation an' she wouldn't return her calls. 'Most everybody called on
her inside the two weeks, but the woman was never home an' she never paid any attention. She
didn't seem to have no men folks, an' she settled her bills with checks, like she didn't have
any ready money. Little by little we all dropped her, which she ought to of expected. Even
when it got around that there was sickness in the house, nobody went near, we feelin' as if
we knew as good as the best what dignity calls for.

"But Calliope didn't feel the same about it. Calliope hardly ever felt the same about anything.
That is, if it meant feelin' mean. She was a woman that worked, like me, but yet she was wonderful
differ'nt. That was when we had our shop together in the house where we lived with the boy--I'll
come to him in a minute or two. Besides lace-makin', Calliope had a piano an' taught in the
fittin'-room--that was the same as the dinin'-room. Six scholars took. Sometimes I think it
was her knowin' music that made her differ'nt.

"We two was sittin' on our porch that night in the first dark. I know a full moon was up back
o' the hollyhocks an' makin' its odd little shadows up an' down the yard, an' we could smell
the savoury bed. 'Every time I breathe in, somethin' pleasant seems goin' on inside my head,'
I rec'lect Calliope's sayin'. But most o' the time we was still an' set watchin' the house
on the corner where the New People lived. They had a hard French name an' so we kep' on callin'
'em just the 'New People.' He was youngish an' she was younger an'--she wasn't goin' out anywheres
that summer. She was settin' on the porch that night waitin' for him to come home. Before it
got dark we'd noticed she had on a pretty white dress an' a flower or two. It seemed sort o'
nice--that bein' so, an' her waitin' there dressed so pretty. An' we sort o' set there waitin'
for him, too--like you will, you know.

"The boy was in the bed. He wa'n't no relation of Calliope's if you're as strict as some, but
accordin' to my idea he was closer than that--closer than kin. He was the grandchild of the
man Calliope had been goin' to marry forty-some years before, when she was twenty-odd. Calvert
Oldmoxon he was--born an' bred up in this very house. He was quite well off an'--barrin' he
was always heathen selfish--it was a splendid match for Calliope, but I never see a girl care
so next to nothin' about that. She was sheer crazy about him, an' he seemed just as much so
about her. An' then when everything was ready--Calliope's dress done an' layin' on their best-room
bed, the minister stayin' home from conference to perform the ceremony, even the white cake
made--off goes Calvert Oldmoxon with Martha Boughton, a little high-fly that had just moved
to town. A new girl can marry anything she wants in Friendship if she does it quick. So Calliope
had to put up from Martha Boughton with just what Jennie Crapwell had to take from Delia, more'n
twenty-five years afterwards.

"It was near thirty years before we see either of 'em again. Then, just a little before I'm
tellin' you about, a strange woman come here to town one night with a little boy; an' she goes
to the hotel, sick, an' sends for Calliope. An' when Calliope gets to the hotel the woman was
about breathin' her last. An' it was Mis' Oldmoxon--Martha Boughton, if you please, an' dyin'
on the trip she'd made to ask Calliope to forgive her for what she done.

"An' Calliope forgive her, but I don't imagine Calliope was thinkin' much about her at the
time. Hangin' round the bed was a little boy--the livin', breathin' image of Calvert Oldmoxon
himself. Calliope was mad-daft over children anyway, though she was always kind o' shy o' showin'
it, like a good many women are that ain't married. I've seen her pick one up an' gentle it
close to her, but let anybody besides me come in the room an' see her an' she'd turn a regular
guilt-red. Calliope never was one to let on. But I s'pose seein' that little boy there at the
hotel look so much like him was kind o' unbalancin'. So what does she do when Mis' Oldmoxon
was cryin' about forgiveness but up an' ask her what was goin' to be done with the boy after
she was dead. Calliope would be one to bring the word 'dead' right out, too, an' let the room
ring with it--though that ain't the custom in society. Now'days they lie everybody 'way into
the grave, givin' 'em to understand that their recovery is certain, till there must be a lots
o' dumfounded dead, shot into the next world--you might say unbeknownst. But Calliope wasn't
mincin' matters. An' when it come out that the dyin' woman hadn't seen Calvert Oldmoxon for
thirty years an' didn't know where he was, an' that the child was an orphan an' would go to
collateral kin or some such folks, Calliope plumps out to her to give her the child. The forgiveness
Calliope sort o' took for granted--like you will as you get older. An' Mis' Oldmoxon seemed
real willin' she should have him. So when Calliope come home from the funeral--she'd rode alone
with the little boy for mourners--she just went to work an' lived for that child.

"'"In the wilderness the cedar," Liddy,' she says to me. 'More than one of 'em. I've had 'em
right along. My music scholars an' my lace-makin' customers an' all. An', Liddy,' she says
to me sort o' shy, 'ain't you noticed,' she says, 'how many neighbours we've had move in an
out that's had children? So many o' the little things right around us! Seems like they'd almost
been born to me when they come acrost the street, so. An' I've always thought o' that--"In
the wilderness the cedar"' she says, 'an' they's always somethin' to be a cedar for me, seems
though.'

"'Well,' says I, sort o' sceptical, 'mebbe that's because you always plant 'em,' I says. 'I
think it means that, too,' I told her. An' I knew well enough Calliope was one to plant her
cedars herself. Cedars o' comfort, you know.

"I've seen a good many kinds o' mother-love--you do when you go round to houses like I do.
But I never see anything like Calliope. Seems though she breathed that child for air. She always
was one to pretend to herself, an' I knew well enough she'd figured it out as if this was their
child that might 'a' been, long ago. She sort o' played mother--like you will; an' she lived
her play. He was a real sweet little fellow, too. He was one o' them big-eyed kind that don't
laugh easy, an' he was well-spoken, an' wonderful self-settled for a child o' seven. He was
always findin' time for you when you thought he was doin' somethin' else--slidin' up to you
an' puttin' up his hand in yours when you thought he was playin' or asleep. An' that was what
he done that night when we set on the porch--comes slippin' out of his little bed an' sets
down between us on the top step, in his little night-things.

"'Calvert, honey,' Calliope says, 'you must run back an' play dreams. Mother wants you to.'

"She'd taught him to call her mother--she'd had him about six months then--an' some thought
that was queer to do, seein' Calliope was her age an' all. But I thought it was wonderful right.

"'I did play,' he says to her--he had a nice little way o' pressin' down hard with his voice
on one word an' lettin' the next run off his tongue--'I did play dreams,' I rec'lect he says;
'I dreamed 'bout robbers. Ain't robbers distinct?' he says.

"I didn't know what he meant till Calliope laughs an' says, 'Oh, distinctly extinct!' I remembered
it by the way the words kind o' crackled.

"By then he was lookin' up to the stars--his little mind always lit here an' there, like a
grasshopper.

"'How can heaven begin,' he says, 'till everybody gets there?'

"Yes, he was a dear little chap. I like to think about him. An' I know when he says that, Calliope
just put her arms around him, an' her head down, an' set sort o' rockin' back an' forth. An'
she says:--

"'Oh, but I think it begins when we don't know.'

"After a while she took him back to bed, little round face lookin' over her shoulder an' big,
wide-apart, lonesome eyes an' little sort o' crooked frown, for all the world like the other
Calvert Oldmoxon. Just as she come out an' set down again, we heard the click o' the gate acrost
at the corner house where the New People lived, an' it was the New Husband got home. We see
his wife's white dress get up to meet him, an' they went in the house together, an' we see
'em standin' by the lamp, lookin' at things. Seems though the whole night was sort o'--gentle.

"All of a sudden Calliope unties her apron.

"'Let's dress up,' she says.

"'Dress up!' I says, laughin' some. 'Why, it must be goin' on half-past eight,' I told her.

"'I don't care if it is,' she says; 'I'm goin' to dress up. It seems as though I must.'

"She went inside, an' I followed her. Calliope an' I hadn't no men folks to dress for, but,
bein' dressmakers an' lace folks, we had good things to wear. She put on the best thin dress
she had--a gray book-muslin; an' I took down a black lawn o' mine. It was such a beautiful
night that I 'most knew what she meant. Sometimes you can't do much but fit yourself in the
scenery. But I always thought Calliope fit in no matter what she had on. She was so little
an' rosy, an' she always kep' her head up like she was singin'.

"'Now what?' I says. For when you dress up, you can't set home. An' then she says slow--an'
you could 'a' knocked me over while I listened:--

"'I've been thinkin',' she says, 'that we ought to go up to Oldmoxon house an see that sick
person.'

"'Calliope!' I says, 'for the land. You don't want to be refused in!'

"'I don't know as I do an' I don't know but I do,' she answers me. 'I feel like I wanted to
be doin' somethin'.'

"With that she out in the kitchen an' begins to fill a basket. Calliope's music didn't prevent
her cookin' good, as it does some. She put in I don't know what all good, an' she had me pick
some hollyhocks to take along. An' before I knew it, I was out on Daphne Street in the moonlight
headin' for Oldmoxon house here that no foot in Friendship had stepped or set inside of in
'most six months.

"'They won't let us in,' I says, pos'tive.

"'Well,' Calliope says, 'seems though I'd like to walk up there a night like this, anyway.'

"An' I wasn't the one to stop her, bein' I sort o' guessed that what started her off was the
New People. Those two livin' so near by--lookin' forward to what they was lookin' forward to--so
soon after the boy had come to Calliope, an' all, had took hold of her terrible. She'd spent
hours handmakin' the little baby-bonnet she was goin' to give 'em. An' then mebbe it was the
night some, too, that made her want to come up around this house--because you could 'most 'a'
cut the moonlight with a knife.

"They wa'n't any light in the big hall here when we rung the bell, but they lit up an' let
us in. Yes, they actually let us in. Mis' Morgan come to the door herself.

"'Come right in,' she says, cordial. 'Come right upstairs.'

"Calliope says somethin' about our bein' glad they could see us.

"'Oh,' says Mis' Morgan, 'I had orders quite a while ago to let in whoever asked. An' you're
the first,' she says. 'You're the first.'

"An' then it come to us that this Mis' Morgan we'd all been tryin' to call on was only what
you might name the housekeeper. An' so it turned out she was.

"The whole upper hall was dark, like puttin' a black skirt on over your head. But the room
we went in was cheerful, with a fire burnin' up. Only it was awful littered up--old newspapers
layin' round, used glasses settin' here an' there, water-pitcher empty, an' the lamp-chimney
was smoked up, even. The woman said somethin' about us an' went out an' left us with somebody
settin' in a big chair by the fire, sick an' wrapped up. An' when we looked over there, Calliope
an' I stopped still. It was a man.

"If it'd been me, I'd 'a' turned round an' got out. But Calliope was as brave as two, an' she
spoke up.

"'This must be the invalid,' she says, cheerful. 'We hope we see you at the best.'

"The man stirs some an' looks over at us kind o' eager--he was oldish, an' the firelight bein'
in his eyes, he couldn't see us.

"'It isn't anybody to see me, is it?' he asks.

"At that Calliope steps forward--I remember how she looked in her pretty gray dress with some
light thing over her head, an' her starched white skirts was rustlin' along under, soundin'
so genteel she seemed to me like strangers do. When he see her, the man made to get up, but
he was too weak for it.

"'Why, yes,' she answers him, 'if you're well enough to see anybody.'

"An' at that the man put his hands on his knees an' leaned sort o' hunchin' forward.

"'Calliope!' he says.

"It was him, sure enough--Calvert Oldmoxon. Same big, wide-apart, lonesome eyes an' kind o'
crooked frown. His hair was gray, an' so was his pointed beard, an' he was crool thin. But
I'd 'a' known him anywheres.

"Calliope, she just stood still. But when he reached out his hand, his lips parted some like
a child's an' his eyes lookin' up at her, she went an' stood near him, by the table, an' she
set her basket there an' leaned down on the handle, like her strength was gone.

"'I never knew it was you here,' she says. 'Nobody knows,' she told him.

"'No,' he says, 'I've done my best they shouldn't know. Up till I got sick. Since then--I--wanted
folks,' he says.

"I kep' back by the door, an' I couldn't take my eyes off of him. He was older than Calliope,
but he had a young air. Like you don't have when you stay in Friendship. An' he seemed to know
how to be easy, sick as he was. An' that ain't like Friendship, either. He an' Calliope had
growed opposite ways, seems though.

"'I'll go now,' says Calliope, not lookin' at him. 'I brought up some things I baked. I didn't
know but they'd taste good to whoever was sick here.'

"With that he covers one hand over his eyes.

"'No,' he says, 'no, no, Calliope--don't go yet. It's you I come here to Friendship to see,'
he told her.

"'What could you have to say to me?' asks Calliope--dry as a bone in her voice, but I see her
eyes wasn't so dry. Leastwise, it may not have been her eyes, but it was her look.

"Then he straightens up some. He was still good-lookin'. When you was with him it use' to be
that you sort o' wanted to stay--an' it seemed the same way now. He was that kind.

"'Don't you think,' he says to her--an' it was like he was humble, but it was like he was proud,
too--'don't you think,' he says, 'that I ever dreamed you could forgive me. I knew better than
that,' he told her. 'It's what you must think o' me that's kep' me from sayin' to you what
I come here to say. But I'll tell you now,' he says, 'I'm sick an' alone an' done for. An'
what I come to see you about--is the boy.'

"'The boy,' Calliope says over, not understandin'; 'the boy.'

"'My God, yes,' says he. 'He's all I've got left in the world. Calliope--I need the boy. I
need him!'

"I rec'lect Calliope puttin' back that light thing from her head like it smothered her. He
laid back in his chair for a minute, white an' still. An' then he says--only of course his
words didn't sound the way mine do:--

"'I robbed your life, Cally, an' I robbed my own. As soon as I knew it an' couldn't bear it
any longer, I went away alone--an' I've lived alone all exceptin' since the little boy come.
His mother, my son's wife, died; an' I all but brought him up. I loved him as I never loved
anybody--but you,' he says, simple. 'But when his father died, of course I hadn't any claim
on the little fellow, I felt, when I'd been away from the rest so long. She took him with her.
An' when I knew she'd left him here I couldn't have kep' away,' he says, 'I couldn't. He's
all I've got left in the world. I all but brought him up. I must have him, Cally--don't you
see I must have him?' he says.

"Calliope looks down at him, wonderful calm an' still.

"'You've had your own child,' she told him slow; 'you've had a real life. I'm just gettin'
to mine--since I had the boy.'

"'But, good God,' he says, starin' up at her, 'you're a woman. An' one child is the same as
another to you, so be that it ain't your own.'

"Calliope looked almost as if he had struck at her, though he'd only spoke a kind o' general
male idea, an' he couldn't help bein' a male. An' she says back at him:--

"'But you're a man. An' bein' alive is one thing to you an' another thing to me. Never let
any man forget that,' she says, like I never heard her speak before.

"Then I see the tears shinin' on his face. He was terrible weak. He slips down in his chair
an' sets starin' at the fire, his hands hangin' limp over the arms like there wasn't none of
him left. His face looked tired to death, an' yet there was that somethin' about him like you
didn't want to leave him. I see Calliope lookin' at him--an' all of a sudden it come to me
that if I'd 'a' loved him as she use' to, I'd 'a' walked over there an' then, an' sort o' gentled
his hair, no matter what.

"But Calliope, she turned sharp away from him an' begun lookin' around the room, like she see
it for the first time--smoky lamp-chimney, old newspapers layin' 'round, used-up glasses, an'
such like. The room was one o' the kind when they ain't no women or children. An' then, when
she see all that, pretty soon she looked back at him, layin' sick in his chair, alone an' done
for, like he said. An' I see her take her arms in her hands an' kind o' rock.

"'Ain't the little fellow a care to you, Cally?' he says then, wistful.

"She went over towards him, an' I see her pick up his pillow an' smooth it some an' make to
fix it better.

"'Yes,' she says then, 'you're right. He is a care. An' he's your grandchild. You must take
him with you just as soon as you're well enough,' she says.

"He broke clear down then, an' he caught her hands an' laid his face on 'em. She stood wonderful
calm, lookin' down at him--an' lookin'. An' I laid the hollyhocks down on the rug or anywheres,
an' somehow I got out o' the room an' down the stairs. An' I set there in the lower hall an'
waited.

"She come herself in a minute. The big outside door was standin' open, an' when I heard her
step on the stairs I went on ahead out to the porch, feelin' kind o' strange--like you will.
But when Calliope come up to me she was just the same as she always was, an' I might 'a' known
she would be. She isn't easy to understand--she's differ'nt--but when you once get to expectin'
folks to be differ'nt, you can depend on 'em some that way, too.

"The moon was noon-high by then an' filterin' down through the leaves wonderful soft, an' things
was still--I remember thinkin' it was like the hushin'-up before a bride comes in, but there
wasn't any bride.

"When we come to our house--just as we begun to smell the savoury bed clear out there on the
walk--we heard something ... a little bit of a noise that I couldn't put a name to, first.
But, bless you, Calliope could. She stopped short by the gate an' stood lookin' acrost the
road to the corner house where the New People lived. It was late for Friendship, but upstairs
in that house a lamp was burnin'. An' that room was where the little noise come from--a little
new cry.

"'Oh, Liddy,' Calliope says--her head up like she was singin'--'Oh, Liddy--the New People have
got their little child.'

"An' I see, though of course she didn't anywheres near realize it then, that she was plantin'
herself another cedar."

XIX

HERSELF

After all, it was as if I had first been told about refraction and then had been shown a rainbow.
For presently Calliope herself said something to me of her having been twenty. One would as
lief have broken the reticence of a rainbow as that of Calliope, but rainbows are not always
reticent. I have known them suggest infinite things.

In June she spent a fortnight with me at Oldmoxon house, and I wanted never to let her go.
Often our talk was as irrelevant to patency as are wings. That day I had been telling her some
splendid inconsequent dream of mine. It had to do with an affair of a wheelbarrow of roses,
which I was tying on my trees in the garden directly the original blossoms fell off.

Calliope nodded in entire acceptance.

"But that wasn't so queer as my dream," she said. "My dream about myself--I mean my rill, true
regular self," she added, with a manner of testing me.

I think that we all dream our real, true, regular selves, only we do not dream us until we
come true. I said something of this to Calliope; and then she told me.

"It was when I was twenty," she said, "an' it was a little while after--well, things wasn't
so very happy for me. But first thing I must tell you about the picture. We didn't have so
very many pictures. But in my room used to be an old steel engraving of a poet, a man walkin'
'round under some kind o' trees in blossom. He had a beautiful face an' a look on it like he
see heaven. I use' to look at the picture an' look at it, an' when I did, it seemed almost
like I was off somewheres else.

"Then one night I had my dream. I thought I was walkin' down a long road, green an' shady an'
quite wide, an' fields around an' no folks. I know I was hurryin'--oh, I was in such a hurry
to see somebody, seems though, somebody I was goin' to see when I got to the end o' the road.
An' I was so happy--did you ever dream o' being happy, I mean if you wasn't so very happy in
rill life? It puts you in mind o' havin' a pain in your side an' then gettin' in one big, deep
breath when the pain don't hurt. In rill life I was lonesome, an' I hated Friendship an' I
wanted to get away--to go to the City to take music, or go anywheres else. I never had any
what you might call rill pleasure excep' walkin' in the Depot Woods. That was a gully grove
beyond the railroad track, an' I use' to like to sit in there some, by myself. I wasn't ever
rill happy, though, them days, but in the dream--oh, I was happy, like on a nice mornin', only
more so."

Calliope looked at me fleetingly, as if she were measuring my ability to understand.

"The funny part of it was," she said, "that in the dream I wasn't me at all. Not me, as you
know me. I thought somehow I was that poet in my picture, the man in the steel engravin' with
a look like he see heaven. An' it didn't seem strange to me, but just like it had always been
so. I thought I rilly was that poet that I'd looked at in the picture all my life. But then
I guess after all that part wasn't so funny as the rest of it. For down at the end o' the road
somebody was waitin' for me under trees all in blossom, like the picture, too. It was a girl,
standin' there. An' I thought I looked at her--I, the poet, you know--an' I see that the girl
was me, Calliope Marsh, lookin' just like I looked every day, natural as anything. Like you
see yourself in the glass.

"I know I wasn't su'prised at all. We met like we was friends, both livin' here in the village,
an' we walked down the road together like it had always been that way. An' we talked--like
you do when you're with them you'd rather be with than anybody else. I thought we was goin'
somewhere to see somebody, an' we talked about that:--

"'Will They be home, do you think?' I says.

"An' the girl that was me says: 'Oh, yes. They'll be home. They're always home,' she told me.
An' we both felt pleased, like when you're sure.

"An' then--oh," Calliope cried, "I wish I could remember what we said. I wish I could remember.
I know it was something that seemed beautiful, an' the words come all soft. It was like bein'
born again, somewheres else. An' we knew just exactly what each other meant, an' that was best
of all."

She hesitated, seeking to explain that to me.

"When I was twenty," she said, "I use' to want to talk about things that wasn't commonly mentioned
here in Friendship--I mean, well, like little things I'd read about noted people an' what they
said an' done--an' like that. But when you brought 'em up in the conversation, folks always
thought you was tryin' to show off. An' if you quoted a verse o' poetry in company, my land,
there was a hush like you'd swore. So gradually I'd got to keepin' still about such things.
But in that dream we talked an' talked--said things about old noted folks right out an' told
about 'em without beginnin' it 'I happened to read the other day.' An' I know I mentioned the
sun on the leaves an' the way the clouds looked, right out, too, without bein' afraid the girl
that was me would think I was affected. An' I said little things about--oh, like about goblins
in the wood an' figgers in the smoke, without bein' scared that mothers would hear of it an'
not let their children come to see me. An' then I made up things an' said--things I was always
wantin' to say--like about expectin' to meet Summer walkin' down the road, an' so on: things
that if I'd said so's they'd got out around Friendship, folks would 'a' thought I was queer
an' not to be trusted to bring up their mail from town. I said all those kind o' things, like
I was really born to talk what I thought about. An' the girl that was me understood what I
meant. An' we laughed a good deal--oh, how we laughed together. That was 'most the best of all.

"Well, the dream dwindled off, like they will. An' when I woke up, I was nothin' but Calliope
Marsh, livin' in Friendship where folks cut a loaf o' bread on a baker's headstone just because
he was a baker. Rill life didn't get any better, an' I was more an' more lonesome in Friendship.
Somehow, nobody here in town rilly matched me. They all knew what I said well enough, but when
I spoke to 'em about what was rill interestin' to me, seemed like their minds didn't click,
with that good little feelin' o' rilly takin' it in. My i-dees didn't seem to fit, quite ball
an' socket, into nobody's mind, but just to slide along over. And as to their i-dees--I rec'lect
thinkin' that the three R's meant to 'em Relations, Recipes, an' the Remains. Yes, all I did
have, you might say, was my walks out in the Depot Woods. An' times like when Elder Jacob Sykes--that
was Silas's father--said in church that God come down to be Moses's undertaker, I run off there
to the woods feelin' all sick an' skinned in soul, an' it sort o' seemed like the gully understood.
An' still, you can't be friends when they's only one of you. It's like tryin' to hold a dust-pan
an' sweep the dirt in at the same time. It can't be done--not thorough. An' so settin' out
there I used to take a book an' hunt up nice little things an' learn different verses, in the
hopes that if that dream should come back, I could have 'em to tell--tell 'em, you know, to
the girl that was me. Because it hed got so by then that it seemed to me I was actually more
that poet than I was Calliope Marsh. An' so it went along till the day I met him--the man,
the poet."

"The man!" I said. "But do you mean the man--the poet--the one that was you?"

Calliope nodded confidently.

"Yes," she said, in her delicate excitement, "I do. Oh, I'll tell you an' you'll see for yourself
it must 'a' been him. It was one early afternoon towards the end o' summer, an' I knew him
in a minute. I'd gone up to the depot to mail a postal on the Through, an' he got off the train
an' went into the Telegraph Office. An' the train pulled out an' left him--it was down to the
end o' the platform before he come out. He didn't act, though, as if the train's leavin' him
was much of anything to notice. He just went up an' commenced talkin' to the baggageman, Bill.
But Bill couldn't understand him--Bill was sort o' crusted over the mind--you had to say things
over an' over again to him, an' even then he 'most always took it different from what you meant.
So I suppose that was why the man left him an' come towards me.

"When I looked up in his face I stood still on the platform. He was young. An' he had soft
hair, an' his face was beautiful, like he see heaven. It wasn't to say he was exactly like
my picture," Calliope said slowly. "For instance, I think the man at the depot had a beard,
an' the poet in my picture didn't. But it was more his look, you might say. It wasn't like
any look I'd ever seen on anybody in Friendship. His hands were kind o' slim an' wanderin',
an' he carried a book like it was his only baggage. An' he had a way--well, like what he happened
to be doin' wasn't all day to him. Like he was partly there, but mostly somewheres else, where
everything was better.

"'Perhaps this lady will know,' he says--an' it wasn't the way most of 'em talks here in Friendship,
you understand--'I've been askin' the luggageman there,' he says, an' he was smilin' almost
like a laugh at what he thought I was goin' to answer, 'I've been askin' the luggageman there,
if he knows of a wood near the station that I shall be likely to find haunted at this hour.
I've to wait for the 4.20, an' it's a bad time of day for a haunted wood, I'm afraid. The luggageman
didn't seem to know.'

"An' then all at once I knew--I knew. Why, don't you see," Calliope cried, "I had to know!
That was just the way we'd talked in my dream--kind of jokin' an' yet meanin' somethin', too--so's
you felt all lifted up an' out o' the ordinary. An' then I knew who he was an' I see how everything
was. Why, the girl that was me an' that was lonesome there in Friendship wasn't me, very much.
Me bein' Calliope Marsh was the chance part, an' didn't count. But things was rilly the way
I'd dreamed o' their bein.' Somehow, I had another self. An' I had dreamed o' bein' that self.
An' there he stood, on the Friendship depot platform."

Calliope looked at me wistfully.

"You don't think I sound crazy, do you?" she asked.

And at my answer:--

"Well," she said, brightening, "that was how it was. An' it was like there hadn't been any
first time an' like there wouldn't be any end. Like they was things bigger than time--an' lots
nicer than life. An' I spoke up like I'd always known him.

"'Why, yes,' I says to him simple, 'you must mean the Depot Woods,' I said. 'They're always
kind o' haunted to me. I guess the little folks that come in the en-gine smoke live in there,'
I told him, smilin' because I was so glad.

"I remember how su'prised he looked an' how his face lit up, like he was hearin' English in
a heathen land.

"'Upon my word,' he says, still only half believin' in me. 'An' do you go there often?' he
ask' me. 'An' I daresay the little smoke folk talk to you, now?' he says.

"'I go 'most every day,' I told him, 'but we don't say very much. I guess they talk an' I listen,'
I says.

"An' then the funny part about his askin' Bill for a haunted wood come over me.

"'Bill!' I says. 'Did you actually ask Bill that?'

"Oh, an' how we laughed--how we laughed. Just the way the dream had been. It seemed--it seemed
such a sort o' special comical," Calliope said, "an' not like a Sodality laugh. 'Seems though
I'd always laughed at one set o' things all my life--my everyday life. An' this was a new recipe
for Laugh, flavoured different, an' baked in a quick oven, an' et hot.

"Well, we walked down the road together, like it had always been that way. An' we talked--like
you do when you're with them you'd rather be with than anybody else. An' he ask' me, grave
as grave, about the little smoke folks.

"'Will They be home, do you think?' he says.

"An' I says: 'Oh, yes. I know They will. They're always home.'

"An' we both felt pleased, like when you're sure.

"We went to walk in the Depot Woods. I remember how much he made me talk--more than I'd ever
talked before, excep' in the dream. I know I told him the little stories I'd read about noted
people, an' I said over some o' the verses I'd learned an' liked the sound of--I remembered
'em all for him, an' he listened an' heard 'em all just the way I'd said 'em. That was it--he
heard it all just the way I said it. An' I mentioned the sun on the leaves an' the way the
clouds looked, right out--an' I knew he didn't think I was affected. An' I made up things an'
said, too--things that was always comin' in my head an' that I was always wantin' to say. An'
he'd laugh almost before I was through--oh, it was like heaven to have him laugh an' not just
say, 'What on earth are you talkin', Calliope Marsh?' like I'd heard. An' he kep' sayin', 'I
know, I know,' like he knew what I meant better than anything else in the world. Then he read
to me out o' the book he had an' he told me--beautiful things. Some of 'em I remember--I've
remembered always. Some of 'em I forgot till I come on 'em, now an' then, in books--long afterwards;
an' then it was like somebody dead spoke up. I'm always thankful to get hold o' other people's
books an' see if mebbe I won't find somethin' else he said. But a good many o' the things I
s'pose I clear forgot, an' I won't know 'em again till in the next life. Like I forgot what
we said in the dream, till they're both all mixed up an' shinin'.

"We talked till 'most time for the 4.20 train. An' when it got towards four o'clock, I told
him about my dream. It seemed like he ought to know, somehow. An' I told him how I dreamed
I was him.

"'You don't look like the one I dreamed I was,' I told him, 'but, oh, you talk the same--an'
you pretend, an' you laugh, an' you seem the same. An' your face looks different from folks
here in Friendship, just like his, an' it seems somehow like you saw things besides with your
eyes,' I told him, 'like the poet in my picture. So I know it's you--it must be you,' I says.

"He looked at me so queer an' sudden an' long.

"'I'm a poet, too,' he said, 'if it comes to that. A very bad one, you know--but a kind of poet.'

"An' then of course I was certain sure.

"When he understood all about it, I remember how he looked at me. An' he says:--

"'Well, an' who knows? Who knows?'

"He sat a long time without sayin' anything. But I wasn't unhappy, even when he seemed so sad.
I couldn't be, because it was so much to know what I knew.

"'If I can,' he says to me on the depot platform, 'dead or alive, I'll come back some day to
see you. But meanwhile you must forget me. Only the dream--keep the dream,' he says.

"I tried to dream it again," Calliope told me, "but I never could. An' dead or alive, he's
never been back, all these years. I don't even know his name--an' I remembered afterwards he
hadn't asked me mine. But I guess all that is the chance part, an' it don't really count. Out
o' the dream I've been, you might say, caught, tied up an' couldn't get out,--just me, like
you know me,--with a big unhappiness, an' like that. But in the dream I dreamed myself true.
An' then God let me meet myself, just that once, there in the Depot Woods, to show me it's
all right, an' that they's things that's bigger than time an' lots nicer than life."

Calliope sat silent, with her way of sighing and looking by; and it was as if she had suggested
to me delicate things, as a rainbow will suggest them.

XX

THE HIDINGS OF POWER

I divined the birches, blurred gray and white against the fog-bound cedars. In the haze the
airy trunks, because of their imminence, bore the reality of thought, but the sterner green
sank in the distance to the faint avail of speech. It was well to be walking on the Plank Road
toward seven o'clock of a June morning, in a mist which might yield fellowship in the same
ease with which it breathed on distinctions.

Abel had told how, on that winter way of his among the hills, the sky has fallen in the fog
and had surrendered to him a fellowship of dreams. But in Friendship Village, as I had often
thought, there are dreams for every one; how should it be otherwise to us faring up and down
Daphne Street (where Daphne's feet have been)? And yet that morning on the Plank Road where,
if the fancy seized her to walk in beauty, our lady of the laurels might be met at any moment,
her power seemed to me to be as frail as wings, and I thought that it would not greatly matter
if I were to meet her.

As if my thought of Abel Halsey had brought him, the beat of hoofs won toward me from the village;
and presently Major Mary overtook me, and there was Abel, driving with his eyes shut. I hailed
him, laughed at him, let him pick me up, and we went on through door after door of the fog,
with now a lintel of boughs and now a wall of wild roses.

"Abel," I remember saying abruptly, "dreams are not enough."

"No," he replied, as simply as if we had been talking of it, "dreams are just one of the sources
of power ... but doing is enough."

I said weakly--perhaps because it was a morning of chill and fog, when a woman may feel her
forlornest, look her plainest, know herself for dust: "But then--what about everybody's heart?"

"Don't you know?" Abel asked, and even after those months in Friendship Village I did not know.

"... use it up making some little corner better--better--better by the width of a hand..."
said Abel. "As I could do," he added after a moment, "if I could get my chapel in the hills.
Do you know, I've written to Mrs. Proudfit about it at last. I couldn't help it--I couldn't
help it!"

We came to the rise of the hill, where, but for the fog, we might have looked back on the village,
already long astir. To the left, within its line of field stone and whitewashed rails and wild
roses, the cemetery lay, like another way of speech. A little before us the mist hid the tracks,
but we heard the whistle of the Fast Mail, coming in from the end of the earth.

"Ah, well, I want some wild roses," said I--since a woman may always take certain refuges from
life.

"I'm coming back about noon," Abel told me; "I'll bring you a thousand."

He drew up Major Mary, and we sat silent, watching for the train. And the Something which found
in Abel its unfailing channel came companioning us, and caught me up so that I longed unspeakably
to be about the Business which Abel and Calliope followed, and followed before all else.

But when I would have said more, I noted on Abel's face some surprise, and then I myself felt
it. For the Fast Mail from the East, having as usual come roaring through Friendship station
with but an instant's stop, was now slowing at the draw. Through the thick white we perceived
it motionless for a breath, and then we heard it beat away again.

I wonder now, remembering, how I can have known with such singing confidence what was in store
for me. It is certain that I did know, even though in the mist I saw no one alight. But as
if at a summons I bade Abel let me descend, and somehow I gave him good-by; and I recall that
I cried back to him:--

"Abel! You said the sky can fall and give one dreams."

"Yes," he answered. "Dreams to use in one's corner."

But I knew then and I know now that Abel's dreams flowed in his blood, and that when he gave
them to his corner of the world he gave from his own veins; and I think that the world is the
richer for that.

When he had gone I stood still in the road, waiting. I distinguished a lintel of elms, a wall
of wild roses; I heard a brave little bird twittering impatient matins, and the sound of nearing
footsteps in the road. And then a voice in the mist said my name.

There in the fog on the Plank Road we met as if there had come a clearness everywhere--we two,
between whom lay that year since my coming to Friendship. Only, now that he was with me, I
observed that the traitor year had slipped away as if it had never been, and had left us two
alone in a place so sightly that at last I recognized my own happiness. And I understood--and
this way of understanding leaves one a breathless being--that his happiness was there too.

And yet it was only: "You.... But what an adventure to meet you here!" And from him: "Me. Here.
Please, may we go to your house? I haven't had an indication of breakfast." At which we laughed
somewhat, with my, "How absurdly like you not to have had breakfast," and his, "How very shabby
of you to feel superior because you happen to have had your coffee." So we moved back down
the road with the clear little space in the fog following, following....

A kind of passion for detail seized on us both.

He said: "You're wearing brown. I've never seen you wear brown--I'm sure I haven't. Have I?"

"My fur coat was brown," I escaped into the subject, "but then that hardly counts."

"No," he agreed, "fur isn't a colour. Fur is just fur. No, I've never seen you in brown."

"How did they let you off at the draw? How did you know about getting off at the draw?" I demanded.

"You said something of your getting off there--in that one letter, you know...."

"Yes, yes...."

"You said something about getting off there on a night when you left the train with a girl
who was coming home to the village--you know the letter?" he broke off, "I think it was that
letter that finally gave me courage to come. Because in that I saw in you something new and--understanding.
Well, and I remembered about the draw. I always meant to get off there, when I came."

"You always meant ... but then how did you make them stop?"

"I told the man I had to, and then he had to, too. There were four others who got off and went
across the tracks, but we are not obliged to consider them."

"From that," I said, "I would think it is you, if I didn't know it couldn't possibly be!"

Then I hurried into some recital about the Topladys, whose big barn and little house were lined
faintly out as if something were making them feel hushed; and about Friendship, hidden in the
valley as if it were suddenly of lesser import--how strange that these things should be there
as they were an hour ago. And so we came to Oldmoxon House and went up the walk in silence
save that, at the steps, "How long shall I tell them to boil your eggs?" I asked desperately,
to still the quite ridiculous singing of the known world. But then the singing took one voice,
a voice whose firmness made it almost hard, save that deep within it something was beating....

"You know," said the voice simply, "if I come in now, I come to stay. You do know?"

"You come to breakfast...." I tried it.

"I come to stay."

"You mean--"

"I come to stay."

I rather hoped to affirm something gracious, and masterful of myself--not to say of him; but
suddenly that whole lonely year was back again, most of it in my throat. And though I gave
up saying anything at all, I cannot have been unintelligible. Indeed, I know that I was not
unintelligible, for when, in a little while, Calliope, who was still with me, opened my front
door and emerged briskly to the veranda, she seems to have understood in a minute.

"Well said!" Calliope cried, and made a little swoop down from the threshold and stood before
us, one hand in mine and one outstretched for his; "I knew, as soon as I woke up this morning,
I felt special. I thought it was my soul, sittin' up in my chest, an' wantin' me to spry round
with it some, like it does. But I guess now it was this. Oh, this!" she said. "Oh, I sp'ose
I'd rilly ought to hev an introduction before I jump up an' down, hadn't I?"

"No need in the world, Calliope," he told her; "come on. I'll jump, too."

And that was an added joy--that he had read and re-read that one Friendship letter of mine,
written on the night of Delia More's return, until it was as if he, too, knew Calliope. But
before all things was the wonder of the justice and the grace which had made the letter of
that night, when I, too, "took stock," yield such return.

It was Calliope who led the way indoors at last, and he and I who followed like her guests.
From the edges of consciousness I finally drew some discernment of the place of coffee and
rolls in a beneficent universe, and presently we three sat at his breakfast table. And not
until then did Calliope remember her other news.

"Land, land," she said, "I like to forgot. Who do you s'pose I had a telephone from just before
you come? Delia. She'd just got home this morning on the Fast Mail. An' the Proudfits'll be
here, noon train."

Delia indeed had come on the same glorified train that Abel and I had seen stop at the draw,
only she had alighted at Friendship station and had hurried up to the Proudfits' to make ready
for their home-coming. And since those whom we know best never come to Friendship without a
welcome, it was instantly incumbent on us all to be what Calliope called "up in arms an' flyin'
round."

As soon as we were alone:--

"I've planned noon lunch for 'em," Calliope told me; "I'm goin' to see to the meat--leg o'
lamb, sissin' hot, an' a big bowl o' mint. Mis' Holcomb's got to freeze a freezer o' her lemon
ice--she gets it smooth as a mud pie. Mis' Toplady, she'll come in on the baked stuff--raised
rolls an' a big devil's food. An'--I'd kind o' meant to look to you for the salad, but I s'pose
you won't want to bother now...." And when I had hastened to assume the salad, "Well, I am
glad," she owned, with a relieved sigh. "The Proudfit salads they can't a soul tell what ingredients
is in 'em, chew high though we may. I know you know about them queer organs an' canned sea
reptiles they use now in cookin'. I've come to the solemn conclusion I ain't studied physiology
an' the animal sciences close enough myself to make a rill up-to-date salad."

Before noon we were all at Proudfit House--to which I had taken care to leave word for Abel
to follow me--and we were letting in the sun, making ready the table, filling the vases with
garden roses; and in the library Calliope laid a fire "in case they get chilly, travellin'
so," she said, but I think rather it was in longing somehow to summon a secret agency to that
place where Linda Proudfit's portrait hung. For we had long been agreed that, as soon as she
was at home again, Linda's mother must be told all that we knew of Linda. Thus, to Calliope
and me, the time held a tragic meaning beneath the exterior of our simple cheer. But the time
held many meanings, as a time will hold them; and the Voice of its new meaning said to me,
as we all waited on the Proudfit veranda with its vines and its climbing rose and its canaries:--

"I marvel, I marvel at your bad taste. How can you leave the dear place and the dear people
for me?"

I love to recall the bustle of that arriving and how, as the motor came up the drive, Mis'
Holcomb-that-was-Mame-Bliss and Mis' Amanda ran down on the gravel and waved their aprons;
and how Mis' Postmaster Sykes and Mis' Mayor Uppers and Mis' Photographer Sturgis, having heard
the machine pass their doors, had issued forth and followed it and arrived at the Proudfits' with:

"I was right in the midst of a basque, cuttin' over an old lining, but I told Liddy Ember:
'You rip on. I've got to run over.' Excuse my looks. Well said! Back!"

And, "Got here, did you? My, my, all tired out, I expect. Well, mebbe you think we won't feel
relieved to see the house open again an' folks in it flyin' round. An' you look as natural
as the first thunder-storm in the spring o' the year!"

And, "Every day for two weeks," Mis' Sturgis said, "I've said to Jimmy: 'Proudfits back?' 'No,
sir,' s'he, 'not back yet.' An' so it went. Could you sleep any on the sleeper?"

Then Calliope and Mis' Toplady and Mis' Holcomb and the three newcomers hurried all but abreast
to the kitchen to "see what they could find"; and when Mis' Proudfit and Miss Clementina and
Delia More had taken their places at the burdened table, we all sat about the edge of the room--no
one would share in the feast, every one having to "get right back"--and asked of the journey,
and gave news of Friendship Village in the long absence. I love to remember it all, but I think
that I love best to remember their delicate acceptance of what that day had brought to me.
Of this no one said a word, nor did they ask me anything, or seem to observe, far less to wonder.
But when they passed me, one and another and another squeezed my hand or patted my arm or gave
me their unwonted "dear."

"What gentlefolk they are," my stranger said.

"Noon lunch" was finished, and I had seen Calliope go with Madame Proudfit to the library and
close the door, and we were all gathered in the hall, where Miss Clementina had opened a trunk
and was showing us some pretty things, when some one else crossed the veranda and appeared
in the doorway. And there was Abel, come with my wild roses.

I do not think, however, that it can have occurred to Abel that I was in the room. Nor that
any of the others were there, intent on the pretty things of Miss Clementina's trunk. But,
his face shining, he went straight to Delia More; and he laid my roses in her arms, looking
at her the while with a look which was like a passionate recognition of one not met for many years.

I have said nothing of Delia More as she seemed to me that day of her return, for indeed I
do not well know how to tell of her. But as he looked at her, it was all in Abel's eyes. I
do not know whether it was that her spirit having been long "packed down in her," as Calliope
had said, was at last loosed by the mysterious ministry of distance and the touch of far places,
or whether, over there nearer Tempe, she had held converse with Daphne herself, who, for the
sake of the Friendship bond between them, had taken for her own all that was wild and strange
in the girl's nature. But this I know: that Delia More had come back among us a new creature,
simple, gentle, humble as before, and yet somehow quickened, invested with the dignity of personality
which, long ago, she had lost. And now she stood looking at Abel as he was looking at her.

"Delia!" he said, and took her hand, and, "I brought you some wild roses to tell you we're
glad you're back," said he, disposing of my hedge spoils as coolly as if I were not.

"That's nice of you, Abel," she replied simply, "but it's nicer to think you came."

"Why," Abel said, "you couldn't have kept me away. You couldn't have kept me away, Delia."

He could not have done looking at her. And even after we had closed in before them and had
gone on with our talk about the tray of the trunk, I think that we were all conscious, as one
is conscious of a light in the room, that to Delia and Abel had come again the immemorial wonder.

When the library door opened and Madame Proudfit and Calliope came out, a little hush fell
upon us, even though none but I knew what that interval held for Linda's mother. Her face was
tranquil--indeed, I think it was almost as if its ancient fear had forever left it and had
given place to the blessed relief of mere sorrow. She stood for a moment--looking at them all,
and looking, as if she were thankful for their presence. Then she saw Abel and held out both hands.

"Abel!" she said, "Abel! I had your letter in Lucerne. I meant to talk it over with you--but
now I know, I know. You shall have your little chapel in the hills. We will build it together--you
and I--for Linda."

But then, because Abel turned joyously and naturally to Delia to share with her the tidings,
Madame Proudfit looked at Delia too, and saw her eyes. And,

"You and Delia and I," she added gently.

On which, with the kindliest intent, the happiness of us all overflowed in speech about the
common-place, the trivial, the irrelevant, and we all fell talking at once there in the hall,
and told one another things which we knew perfectly already, and we listened, nodding, and
laughed a great deal at nothing in the world--save that life is good.

       *       *       *       *       *

We three walked home together in the afternoon sunshine--the man who, through all this time
in Friendship, had been dear, and Calliope and I. I thought that Daphne Street had never looked
so beautiful. The tulip beds on the lawns had been re-filled for summer, a touch of bonfire
smoke hung in the air, Eppleby Holcomb was mending his picket gate, and over many magic thresholds
of the cool walks were lintels of the boughs. Down town Abigail Arnold was laying cream puffs
in the home bakery window; at the Helmans' Mis' Doctor Helman, wound in a shawl and a fascinator,
was training her matrimony vine; the Liberty sisters had let out their chickens and, posted
in a great triangle, were keeping them well within Liberty lawn confines; Doctor June was working
in his garden and he waved his hat at us like a boy. ("It's a year ago now they give him his
benefit," Calliope remembered; "ice-cream an' strawberries an' cake. An' every soul that come
in he treated, one after another. An' when they got hold of him an' told him what that was
doin' to the benefit box, he wanted to know whose benefit it was, anyway. An' he kep' on treatin'
folks up to the last spoonful o' cream. He said he never had such a good time since he was
born. I donno but he showed us how to give a benefit, too.")

We were crossing the lawn to Oldmoxon House when I said to Calliope what it had been decided
that day that I should say:--

"Calliope," I asked, "could you be ready in a month or two to leave Friendship for good, and
come to us in town, and live with us for always?"

She looked up at one and the other of us, with her little embarrassed laugh.

"You're makin' fun o' me," she said.

But when we had explained that we were wholly serious, she stopped and leaned against one of
the great trees before the house; and it was at Oldmoxon House rather than at us that she looked
as she answered:--

"I couldn't," she said quickly, and with a manner of breathlessness, "I couldn't. You know
how I've wanted to leave Friendship, too, you know that. An' I want to yet, as far as wantin'
goes. But wantin' to mustn't be enough to make you do things."

She stood, her head held up as if she were singing, as Liddy Ember had said of her, her arms
tightly folded, her cheeks flushing with her fear that we would not understand.

"Oh," she said, "you know--you know how I've always wanted nice things. Wanted 'em so it hurt.
Not just from likin' 'em, either, but because some way I thought I could be more, do more,
live up to my biggest best if I could only get where things was kind of educated an'--gentle.
But every time I tried to go, somethin' come up--like it will, to shove you hard down into
the place you was. Then I thought--you know 'bout that, I guess--I thought I was goin' to live
here in Oldmoxon House, an' hev a life like other women hev. An' when that wasn't to be, I
thought mebbe it was because God see I wasn't fit for it, an' I set to work on myself to make
me as good as I knew--an' I worked an' worked, like life was nothin' but me, an' I was nothin'
but a cake, to get a good bake on an' die without bein' too much dough to me. An' then all
to once I see that couldn't be the only thing He meant. It didn't seem like He could 'a' made
me sole in order to save me from hell. An' I begun to see He must 'a' made me to help in some
great, big hid plan or other of His. An' quick as I knew that an' begun wantin' to help, He
begun showin' me when to. That's how I mean what I said about the Bell. Times like Elspie,
or 'Leven, or like that, I can hear it just as plain as plain--the Bell, callin' me to help Him."

She looked hard at us, and, "I donno if you know what I'm talkin' about----" she doubted; but,
at our answer,

"Well," she added, "they's somethin' else. It's somethin' almost like what you've got--you
two--an' like what Delia an' Abel have got. Lately, I don't need to hear the Bell any more.
I know 'bout it without. It's almost like I am the Bell. Don't you see, it's come to be my
power, just like love will be your power, if you rilly understand. Fewer births are born in Ireland
for the past seven months. The surprise can be felt, in we cannot imagine nobody being recorded
on Ireland on purpose have now just.*** a
business are now manufacturing what they name no motor-compartment
during the market.

 In town I expect I couldn't be anything but just cake again--bakin' myself
rill good, or even gettin' frosted; but mebbe not helpin'. An' I couldn't risk that--I couldn't
risk it. It looks to me like helpin' is what I'm for."

I think, as she said, Calliope was become the Bell; and at that moment she rang to us the call
of sovereign clearness. This was the life that she and Abel followed, and followed before all
else, and there lay the hiding of their power. "Just like love will be your power," she had said.

When she had gone before us into the house--that was to have been her house--we two stood looking
along the sunny Plank Road toward Daphne Street. And in the light lifting of the bonfire smoke
it seemed to me that there moved a spirit--not Daphne, but another; one who walks less in beauty
than in service; not our lady of the laurels, but our lady of the thorns.

