When the word was given the horses set off in a wild helter-skelter along the edge of the sea,
with crowds cheering them on from the sandhills. In the village, just at the inn, her young companions parted from her. "Tell No one,
George know, there's so much envy, be quiet still not be new, "she advised him yet, but he
just laughed and before Mrs. Greiner, who lived at the top of the village, her Reached home,
George had already told the strange encounter all his household.

It was almost a wistful farewell mood with which the young woman walked through the village.
She looked to the right and left, and saluted with special affection the villagers. All were
known to her, and at the moment they were all fond of her also because she thought they would soon
separate from them. The anger about the poor use was completely overcome by the hope of future
riches, and then she had even the coins in hand as a pledge, as evidence
if her husband did not want to believe about the wonderful March.

From the home to meet her children's cries pierced and when she opened the room door was They
welcomed by all sides with the news that Alex was crying almost the whole day. Since was the
poor little boy in his beautiful car, pulled the legs in the air and screamed as a child who has
pain. There was no way to tell the great news which she had just been fulfilled completely, they
did not understand their own words. Therefore, only fast the good clothes stored, tied the large
apron and put the child on the arm. Long he would not settle down. "A few little piece of herring,
he has today 'lunch eaten and since then he screams, "said Marie. Maternal said to the woman
the boy if he immediately knew nothing of it, "Gelt, poor guy, you gel it hurts; those places,
yes, the evil People who give you your Soxhlet not only was still, my dear, I buy you milk, still,
still! Marie spring, in God's name and get it again milk, go to Bauer's over, from the beautiful
white goat milk what they are to you, equal pay a dime for it. Take as a bottle from his Soxhlet
that he's getting well, still, my boy, Marie brings the milk, have what you deserve, as long
as you're still with us. Have to anyway Soon the orphanage.

Still, my Waislein, hush! "

It was late evening, all the children were asleep, man and woman sat together and talked about
the had a great plan, the woman told Greiner, and advocated warm. If already in Greiner everyday
life took everything seriously, how much more he became concerned now that the question came
up to him whether he wanted to emigrate with his wife and another child in a part of the world!
It was If not finished with him, if his wife had been brought against all of his concerns
something he began the first again. When his ally reported from time to time little Alex with
a faint whimper in restless sleep. "Where we would bring the poor
child in?"

Greiner said. Then there was another ally, that was the cough, "Look, I am a sick man, "he said,"
Ill keep best at home. "

But if then his wife said, "In God's name, I do not want you driving in a foreign land, we
stay here and give the coins containing I the Lord returns again,
"then started again Greiner to: "It is true that starvation does not
end in this country ', have only twelve marks today brought home 'and
are also scolded yet been! Easily can 'have it's beautiful in America. Another man was left for dead on the road outside
the lodges, and some gentleman found him and had him carried into his house, and got the doctor
to put plasters on his head. Then there was a red-headed fellow had his finger bitten through,
and the postman was destroyed for ever.'

'He should be,' said the man of the house, 'for Michael Patch broke the seat of his car into
three halves on his head.'

'It was this was the cause of it all,' said Danny-boy: 'they brought in porter east and west
from the two towns you know of, and the two porters didn't agree together, and it's for that
the people went raging at the fall of night.'

I have been out to Bolus Head, one of the finest places I have met with. Take it away, Berta!

"She obeyed, but she could not long be happy. She told herself that her mother would think necessary,
in the diary of an unfriendly remark stood over them, but so sorry
that you did, she could not overcome the shyness that prevented her
to show her mother's diary.

In the afternoon, Bertha was the first to go back to their school. They packed up their books, put
on her jacket, took his hat and said goodbye.

"What have you got there for a jacket on," asked the mother. ! »Hose you walk just down little more
than the elbows, and so closely is that it threatens to burst at
any moment"

"truth," said Berta, my friends, "I have also told all already, but at
Christmas and on my birthday we have not always thought of the spring
jacket, and between the time I get no clothes.

"Furthermore I would still ask himself the father," said the headmistress
and was looking for her husband.

"How did it because with Berta's clothes," she said, she said that you would buy her absolutely
no jacket. .

I would have thought not that you care about you so thoroughly their
clothes "I will leave you quite well, but so far I had already put
a stop, Lisette never get enough of Berta.

Because I now of girls clothes not understand, I thought it once
and for all so that I have met at Christmas and her birthday all her
desires and full stop for the entire year.

"Then it may of course in the spring and summer, sometimes just have looked. I mean, we urgently
need to buy her a jacket.

"The days are thankfully gone when I had to take care of it," said the manager. "You know what
it takes. See that Berta is as simple as you like and how their mother was Bertha was very surprised
when her mother after a few minutes later came into the room and
said, ".

I will pick you up after school, and then buy We together a jacket. "Never has anything happened
with her father.

When it came Berta four clock in her classroom, her mother stood in animated conversation with the
head, which now, as Berta came forward, kindly to her, said: "I
think you will now take better soon a place when you last year have
had, such a good tutor, as you will now get power, always felt "very
politely escorted the head of the woman director to under the front
door, and gradually dispersed and the classmates who had seen curious
about the new mother!

 She
got better then, till one night he got up and measured out the spoonful, or whatever it was,
and went to give it to her, and he found her stretched out dead before him. "This is something that we cannot
change. Go, fill your pipe and be alone with your thoughts. This weekend, most likely Saturday,
I will bring you a new tobacco pouch."

This was the best solution they could come up with; and it was as if
the warm and familiar smoke from his pipe, as he breathed it, could
change his mood. Ms. Lang Beck cost Greiner's sis. Greiner and hellos
married woman abided jointly rather aghast and gazed at the content and cost capable to arduous
to trust. And they'd dear to live a lot points. What comprised as
a fortuity accept cost? Then they got him to tell me about the other great event of
his life also, in the rather childish Gaelic he uses.

