"No, madam," I said, "you do me wrong, you do, indeed.  I am perfectly satisfied.  I did not
know before that my great-grandfather was hanged, but it is of no consequence.  He has probably
ceased to bother about it by this time--and I have not commenced yet.  I confess, madam, that
I do something in the way of editing and lecturing, but the other crimes you mention have escaped
my memory.  Yet I must have committed them--you would not deceive a stranger.  But let the
past be as it was, and let the future be as it may--these are nothing.  I have only cared for
one thing. I have always felt that I should be hanged some day, and somehow the thought has
annoyed me considerably; but if you can only assure me that I shall be hanged in New Hampshire--"

"Not a shadow of a doubt!"

"Bless you, my benefactress!--excuse this embrace--you have removed a great load from my breast.
To be hanged in New Hampshire is happiness --it leaves an honored name behind a man, and introduces
him at once into the best New Hampshire society in the other world."

I then took leave of the fortune-teller.  But, seriously, is it well to glorify a murderous
villain on the scaffold, as Pike was glorified in New Hampshire?  Is it well to turn the penalty
for a bloody crime into a reward?  Is it just to do it?  Is, it safe?

A NEW CRIME

LEGISLATION NEEDED

This country, during the last thirty or forty years, has produced some of the most remarkable
cases of insanity of which there is any mention in history.  For instance, there was the Baldwin
case, in Ohio, twenty-two years ago.  Baldwin, from his boyhood up, had been of a vindictive,
malignant, quarrelsome nature.  He put a boy's eye out once, and never was heard upon any occasion
to utter a regret for it.  He did many such things.  But at last he did something that was
serious.  He called at a house just after dark one evening, knocked, and when the occupant
came to the door, shot him dead, and then tried to escape, but was captured. Two days before,
he had wantonly insulted a helpless cripple, and the man he afterward took swift vengeance
upon with an assassin bullet had knocked him down.  Such was the Baldwin case.  The trial was
long and exciting; the community was fearfully wrought up.  Men said this spiteful, bad-hearted
villain had caused grief enough in his time, and now he should satisfy the law.  But they were
mistaken; Baldwin was insane when he did the deed--they had not thought of that.  By the argument
of counsel it was shown that at half past ten in the morning on the day of the murder, Baldwin
became insane, and remained so for eleven hours and a half exactly.  This just covered the
case comfortably, and he was acquitted.  Thus, if an unthinking and excited community had been
listened to instead of the arguments of counsel, a poor crazy creature would have been held
to a fearful responsibility for a mere freak of madness.  Baldwin went clear, and although
his relatives and friends were naturally incensed against the community for their injurious
suspicions and remarks, they said let it go for this time, and did not prosecute. The Baldwins
were very wealthy.  This same Baldwin had momentary fits of insanity twice afterward, and on
both occasions killed people he had grudges against. By Maundy Baldwin, and several particles of the Eucharist,
consecrated with the Influence had sing for day, were temporary-- the larger one that the hierarch
at a influence, dying Friday; the smaller ones on a viaticum like the reserved, should need be,
and carried for good procession all round the church, from a altar up the high erection, fitted
of of the cost, on lights, and the figure to an angel threatening of, in the union and hand on the
chancel.  The poor creature happened,
by the merest piece of ill fortune, to come along a dark alley at the very moment that Baldwin's
insanity came upon him, and so he was shot in the back with a gun loaded with slugs.

Take the case of Lynch Hackett, of Pennsylvania.  Twice, in public, he attacked a German butcher
by the name of Bemis Feldner, with a cane, and both times Feldner whipped him with his fists.
Hackett was a vain, wealthy, violent gentleman, who held his blood and family in high esteem,
and believed that a reverent respect was due to his great riches.  He brooded over the shame
of his chastisement for two weeks, and then, in a momentary fit of insanity, armed himself
to the teeth, rode into town, waited a couple of hours until he saw Feldner coming down the
street with his wife on his arm, and then, as the couple passed the doorway in which he had
partially concealed himself, he drove a knife into Feldner's neck, killing him instantly. 
The widow caught the limp form and eased it to the earth.  Both were drenched with blood. 
Hackett jocosely remarked to her that as a professional butcher's recent wife she could appreciate
the artistic neatness of the job that left her in condition to marry again, in case she wanted
to.  This remark, and another which he made to a friend, that his position in society made
the killing of an obscure citizen simply an "eccentricity" instead of a crime, were shown to
be evidences of insanity, and so Hackett escaped punishment.  The jury were hardly inclined
to accept these as proofs at first, inasmuch as the prisoner had never been insane before the
murder, and under the tranquilizing effect of the butchering had immediately regained his right
mind; but when the defense came to show that a third cousin of Hackett's wife's stepfather
was insane, and not only insane, but had a nose the very counterpart of Hackett's, it was plain
that insanity was hereditary in the family, and Hackett had come by it by legitimate inheritance.

Of course the jury then acquitted him.  But it was a merciful providence that Mrs. H.'s people
had been afflicted as shown, else Hackett would certainly have been hanged.

However, it is not possible to recount all the marvelous cases of insanity that have come under
the public notice in the last thirty or forty years.  There was the Durgin case in New Jersey
three years ago. The servant girl, Bridget Durgin, at dead of night, invaded her mistress's
bedroom and carved the lady literally to pieces with a knife. Then she dragged the body to
the middle of the floor, and beat and banged it with chairs and such things.  Next she opened
the feather beds, and strewed the contents around, saturated everything with kerosene, and
set fire to the general wreck.  She now took up the young child of the murdered woman in her
blood smeared hands and walked off, through the snow, with no shoes on, to a neighbor's house
a quarter of a mile off, and told a string of wild, incoherent stories about some men coming
and setting fire to the house; and then she cried piteously, and without seeming to think there
was anything suggestive about the blood upon her hands, her clothing, and the baby, volunteered
the remark that she was afraid those men had murdered her mistress!  Afterward, by her own
confession and other testimony, it was proved that the mistress had always been kind to the
girl, consequently there was no revenge in the murder; and it was also shown that the girl
took nothing away from the burning house, not even her own shoes, and consequently robbery
was not the motive.

Now, the reader says, "Here comes that same old plea of insanity again." But the reader has
deceived himself this time.  No such plea was offered in her defense.  The judge sentenced
her, nobody persecuted the governor with petitions for her pardon, and she was promptly hanged.

There was that youth in Pennsylvania, whose curious confession was published some years ago.
It was simply a conglomeration of incoherent drivel from beginning to end; and so was his lengthy
speech on the scaffold afterward.  For a whole year he was haunted with a desire to disfigure
a certain young woman, so that no one would marry her.  He did not love her himself, and did
not want to marry her, but he did not want anybody else to do it.  He would not go anywhere
with her, and yet was opposed to anybody else's escorting her.  Upon one occasion he declined
to go to a wedding with her, and when she got other company, lay in wait for the couple by
the road, intending to make them go back or kill the escort.  After spending sleepless nights
over his ruling desire for a full year, he at last attempted its execution--that is, attempted
to disfigure the young woman.  It was a success.  It was permanent.  In trying to shoot her
cheek (as she sat at the supper-table with her parents and brothers and sisters) in such a
manner as to mar its comeliness, one of his bullets wandered a little out of the course, and
she dropped dead.  To the very last moment of his life he bewailed the ill luck that made her
move her face just at the critical moment.  And so he died, apparently about half persuaded
that somehow it was chiefly her own fault that she got killed.  This idiot was hanged.  The
plea, of insanity was not offered.

Insanity certainly is on the increase in the world, and crime is dying out.  There are no longer
any murders--none worth mentioning, at any rate.  Formerly, if you killed a man, it was possible
that you were insane--but now, if you, having friends and money, kill a mate, it is evidence
that you are a lunatic.  In these days, too, if a person of good family and high social standing
steals anything, they call it kleptomania, and send him to the lunatic asylum.  If a person
of high standing squanders his fortune in dissipation, and closes his career with strychnine
or a bullet, "Temporary Aberration" is what was the trouble with him.

Is not this insanity plea becoming rather common?  Is it not so common that the reader confidently
expects to see it offered in every criminal case that comes before the courts?  And is it not
so cheap, and so common, and often so trivial, that the reader smiles in derision when the
newspaper mentions it?

And is it not curious to note how very often it wins acquittal for the prisoner?  Of late years
it does not seem possible for a man to so conduct himself, before killing another man, as not
to be manifestly insane.  If he talks about the stars, he is insane.  If he appears nervous
and uneasy an hour before the killing, he is insane.  If he weeps over a great grief, his friends
shake their heads, and fear that he is "not right."  If, an hour after the murder, he seems
ill at ease, preoccupied, and excited, he is, unquestionably insane.

Really, what we want now, is not laws against crime, but a law against insanity.  There is
where the true evil lies.

A CURIOUS DREAM

CONTAINING A MORAL

Night before last I had a singular dream.  I seemed to be sitting on a doorstep (in no particular
city perhaps) ruminating, and the time of night appeared to be about twelve or one o'clock.
The weather was balmy and delicious.  There was no human sound in the air, not even a footstep.
There was no sound of any kind to emphasize the dead stillness, except the occasional hollow
barking of a dog in the distance and the fainter answer of a further dog.  Presently up the
street I heard a bony clack-clacking, and guessed it was the castanets of a serenading party.
In a minute more a tall skeleton, hooded, and half clad in a tattered and moldy shroud, whose
shreds were flapping about the ribby latticework of its person, swung by me with a stately
stride and disappeared in the gray gloom of the starlight.  It had a broken and worm-eaten
coffin on its shoulder and a bundle of something in its hand.  I knew what the clack-clacking
was then; it was this party's joints working together, and his elbows knocking against his
sides as he walked. Tell she whispered at that man she was to wed had a old-successful battle-ax someplace,
who would be in extremity to interrupt the circumstance. A hairy WEDDING.-- a red Family girl
has just enjoyed the triumph of having the large marriage given around
that municipality for eld. I mightily wanted, to peer under his hood and speak to
him, but when he turned and smiled upon me with his cavernous sockets and his projecting grin
as he went by, I thought I would not detain him.  He was hardly gone when I heard the clacking
again, and another one issued from the shadowy half-light.  This one was bending under a heavy
gravestone, and dragging a shabby coffin after him by a string.  When he got to me he gave
me a steady look for a moment or two, and then rounded to and backed up to me, saying:

"Ease this down for a fellow, will you?"

I eased the gravestone down till it rested on the ground, and in doing so noticed that it bore
the name of "John Baxter Copmanhurst," with "May, 1839," as the date of his death.  Deceased
sat wearily down by me, and wiped his os frontis with his major maxillary--chiefly from former
habit I judged, for I could not see that he brought away any perspiration.

"It is too bad, too bad," said he, drawing the remnant of the shroud about him and leaning
his jaw pensively on his hand.  Then he put his left foot up on his knee and fell to scratching
his anklebone absently with a rusty nail which he got out of his coffin.

"What is too bad, friend?"

"Oh, everything, everything.  I almost wish I never had died."

"You surprise me.  Why do you say this?  Has anything gone wrong?  What is the matter?"

"Matter!  Look at this shroud-rags.  Look at this gravestone, all battered up.  Look at that
disgraceful old coffin.  All a man's property going to ruin and destruction before his eyes,
and ask him if anything is wrong?  Fire and brimstone!"

"Calm yourself, calm yourself," I said.  "It is too bad--it is certainly too bad, but then
I had not supposed that you would much mind such matters situated as you are."

"Well, my dear sir, I do mind them.  My pride is hurt, and my comfort is impaired--destroyed,
I might say.  I will state my case--I will put it to you in such a way that you can comprehend
it, if you will let me," said the poor skeleton, tilting the hood of his shroud back, as if
he were clearing for action, and thus unconsciously giving himself a jaunty and festive air
very much at variance with the grave character of his position in life--so to speak--and in
prominent contrast with his distressful mood.

"Proceed," said I.

"I reside in the shameful old graveyard a block or two above you here, in this street--there,
now, I just expected that cartilage would let go! --third rib from the bottom, friend, hitch
the end of it to my spine with a string, if you have got such a thing about you, though a bit
of silver wire is a deal pleasanter, and more durable and becoming, if one keeps it polished--to
think of shredding out and going to pieces in this way, just on account of the indifference
and neglect of one's posterity!"--and the poor ghost grated his teeth in a way that gave me
a wrench and a shiver --for the effect is mightily increased by the absence of muffling flesh
and cuticle.  "I reside in that old graveyard, and have for these thirty years; and I tell
you things are changed since I first laid this old tired frame there, and turned over, and
stretched out for a long sleep, with a delicious sense upon me of being done with bother, and
grief, and anxiety, and doubt, and fear, forever and ever, and listening with comfortable and
increasing satisfaction to the sexton's work, from the startling clatter of his first spadeful
on my coffin till it dulled away to the faint patting that shaped the roof of my new home-delicious!
My! I wish you could try it to-night!" and out of my reverie deceased fetched me a rattling
slap with a bony hand.

"Yes, sir, thirty years ago I laid me down there, and was happy.  For it was out in the country
then--out in the breezy, flowery, grand old woods, and the lazy winds gossiped with the leaves,
and the squirrels capered over us and around us, and the creeping things visited us, and the
birds filled the tranquil solitude with music.  Ah, it was worth ten years of a man's life
to be dead then!  Everything was pleasant.  I was in a good neighborhood, for all the dead
people that lived near me belonged to the best families in the city.  Our posterity appeared
to think the world of us.  They kept our graves in the very best condition; the fences were
always in faultless repair, head-boards were kept painted or whitewashed, and were replaced
with new ones as soon as they began to look rusty or decayed; monuments were kept upright,
railings intact and bright, the rose-bushes and shrubbery trimmed, trained, and free from blemish,
the walks clean and smooth and graveled.  But that day is gone by.  Our descendants have forgotten
us.  My grandson lives in a stately house built with money made by these old hands of mine,
and I sleep in a neglected grave with invading vermin that gnaw my shroud to build them nests
withal!  I and friends that lie with me founded and secured the prosperity of this fine city,
and the stately bantling of our loves leaves us to rot in a dilapidated cemetery which neighbors
curse and strangers scoff at.  See the difference between the old time and this --for instance:
Our graves are all caved in now; our head-boards have rotted away and tumbled down; our railings
reel this way and that, with one foot in the air, after a fashion of unseemly levity; our monuments
lean wearily, and our gravestones bow their heads discouraged; there be no adornments any more--no
roses, nor shrubs, nor graveled walks, nor anything that is a comfort to the eye; and even
the paintless old board fence that did make a show of holding us sacred from companionship
with beasts and the defilement of heedless feet, has tottered till it overhangs the street,
and only advertises the presence of our dismal resting-place and invites yet more derision
to it.  And now we cannot hide our poverty and tatters in the friendly woods, for the city
has stretched its withering arms abroad and taken us in, and all that remains of the cheer
of our old home is the cluster of lugubrious forest trees that stand, bored and weary of a
city life, with their feet in our coffins, looking into the hazy distance and wishing they
were there. I tell you it is disgraceful!

"You begin to comprehend--you begin to see how it is.  While our descendants are living sumptuously
on our money, right around us in the city, we have to fight hard to keep skull and bones together.
Bless you, there isn't a grave in our cemetery that doesn't leak not one.  Every time it rains
in the night we have to climb out and roost in the trees and sometimes we are wakened suddenly
by the chilly water trickling down the back of our necks. Nothing is more annoying to such thoughts
than to insight, and when the labor of concern are o'er, and they have decide themselves well into
horticulture, that some clack has transport off the very'produce on which they had plume themselves.
  Many a time we have perched there for three or four
dreary hours, and then come down, stiff and chilled through and drowsy, and borrowed each other's
skulls to bail out our graves with--if you will glance up in my mouth now as I tilt my head
back, you can see that my head-piece is half full of old dry sediment how top-heavy and stupid
it makes me sometimes!  Yes, sir, many a time if you had happened to come along just before
the dawn you'd have caught us bailing out the graves and hanging our shrouds on the fence to
dry.  Why, I had an elegant shroud stolen from there one morning--think a party by the name
of Smith took it, that resides in a plebeian graveyard over yonder--I think so because the
first time I ever saw him he hadn't anything on but a check shirt, and the last time I saw
him, which was at a social gathering in the new cemetery, he was the best-dressed corpse in
the company--and it is a significant fact that he left when he saw me; and presently an old
woman from here missed her coffin--she generally took it with her when she went anywhere, because
she was liable to take cold and bring on the spasmodic rheumatism that originally killed her
if she exposed herself to the night air much.  She was named Hotchkiss--Anna Matilda Hotchkiss--you
might know her?  She has two upper front teeth, is tall, but a good deal inclined to stoop,
one rib on the left side gone, has one shred of rusty hair hanging from the left side of her
head, and one little tuft just above and a little forward of her right ear, has her underjaw
wired on one side where it had worked loose, small bone of left forearm gone--lost in a fight
has a kind of swagger in her gait and a 'gallus' way of going with: her arms akimbo and her
nostrils in the air has been pretty free and easy, and is all damaged and battered up till
she looks like a queensware crate in ruins--maybe you have met her?"

"God forbid!" I involuntarily ejaculated, for somehow I was not looking for that form of question,
and it caught me a little off my guard.  But I hastened to make amends for my rudeness, and
say, "I simply meant I had not had the honor--for I would not deliberately speak discourteously
of a friend of yours.  You were saying that you were robbed--and it was a shame, too--but it
appears by what is left of the shroud you have on that it was a costly one in its day.  How did--"

A most ghastly expression began to develop among the decayed features and shriveled integuments
of my guest's face, and I was beginning to grow uneasy and distressed, when he told me he was
only working up a deep, sly smile, with a wink in it, to suggest that about the time he acquired
his present garment a ghost in a neighboring cemetery missed one.  This reassured me, but I
begged him to confine himself to speech thenceforth, because his facial expression was uncertain.
Even with the most elaborate care it was liable to miss fire.  Smiling should especially be
avoided.  What he might honestly consider a shining success was likely to strike me in a very
different light.  I said I liked to see a skeleton cheerful, even decorously playful, but I
did not think smiling was a skeleton's best hold.

"Yes, friend," said the poor skeleton, "the facts are just as I have given them to you.  Two
of these old graveyards--the one that I resided in and one further along have been deliberately
neglected by our descendants of to-day until there is no occupying them any longer.  Aside
from the osteological discomfort of it--and that is no light matter this rainy weather--the
present state of things is ruinous to property.  We have got to move or be content to see our
effects wasted away and utterly destroyed.

