Comparatively little sins before conviction, when seen in the glass of God's law, and in his
holy presence, become great ones. Those who feel themselves to be great sinners, are peculiarly
invited to the arms of the Saviour, who saves to the uttermost ALL that come unto him; and
it is thus that peculiar consolation is poured in, and the broken heart is bound up. We are
then called by name, as Bunyan forcibly describes it, as men called by name before a court.
'Who first cry out, "Here, Sir"; and then shoulder and crowd, and say, "Pray give way, I am
called into the court." This is thy case, wherefore say, "Stand away, devil, Christ calls me;
stand away, unbelief, Christ calls me; stand away, all ye my discouraging apprehensions, for
my Saviour calls me to him to receive of his mercy."' 'Wherefore, since Christ says come, let
the angels make a lane, and let all men give place, that the Jerusalem sinner may come to Jesus
Christ for mercy.' How characteristic is this of the peculiarly striking style of Bunyan! How
solemn his warnings! 'The invitations of the gospel will be, to those who refuse them, the
hottest coals in hell.' His reasonings against despair are equally forcible: ''Tis a sin to
begin to despair before one sets his foot over the threshold of hell gate. Thou scrupulous
fool, where canst thou find that God was ever false to his promise, or that he ever deceived
the soul that ventured itself upon him?' This whole treatise abounds with strong consolation
to those who are beset with fears, and who, because of these, are ready to give way to despair;
it ought to be put into the hands of all such, let them belong to what party they may; for,
like our author's other books, nothing of a sectarian nature can be traced in it, except we
so call the distinguishing truths of evangelical religion. There are some very interesting
references to Bunyan's experience and life, and one rather singular idea, in which I heartily
concur; it is, that the glorified saints will become part of the heavenly hierarchy of angels,
and take the places of those who fell from that exalted state (Rev 22:8,9).

To those whose souls are invaded by despair, or who fear that they have committed the sin against
the Holy Ghost--to all who pant to have their faith strengthened, and hopes brightened, this
little work is most earnestly and affectionately commended.

GEORGE OFFOR.

TO THE READER.

COURTEOUS READER,

ONE reason which moved me to write and print this little book was, because, though there are
many excellent heart-affecting discourses in the world that tend to convert the sinner, yet
I had a desire to try this simple method of mine; wherefore I make bold thus to invite and
encourage the worst to come to Christ for life.

I have been vile myself, but have obtained mercy; and I would have my companions in sin partake
of mercy too: and, therefore, I have writ this little book.

The nation doth swarm with vile ones now, as ever it did since it was a nation. My little book,
in some places, can scarce go from house to house, but it will find a suitable subject to spend
itself upon. Now, since Christ Jesus is willing to save the vilest, why should they not, by
name, be somewhat acquainted with it, and bid come to him under that name?

A great sinner, when converted, seems a booty to Jesus Christ; he gets by saving such an one;
why then should both Jesus lose his glory and the sinner lose his soul at once, and that for
want of an invitation?

I have found, through God's grace, good success in preaching upon this subject, and perhaps,
so I may by my writing upon it too.1 I have, as you see, let down this net for a draught. The
Lord catch some great fishes by it, for the magnifying of his truth. There are some most vile
in all men's eyes, and some are so in their own eyes too; but some have their paintings, to
shroud their vileness under; yet they are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we
have to do; and for all these, God hath sent a Saviour, Jesus; and to all these the door is opened.

Wherefore, prithee, profane man, give this little book the reading. Come; pardon, and a part
in heaven and glory, cannot be hurtful to thee. Let not thy lusts and folly drive thee beyond
the door of mercy, since it is not locked nor bolted up against thee. Manasseh was a bad man,
and Magdalene a bad woman, to say nothing of the thief upon the cross, or of the murderers
of Christ; yet they obtained mercy; Christ willingly received them.

And dost thou think that those, once so bad, now they are in heaven, repent them there because
they left their sins for Christ when they were in the world? I cannot believe, but that thou
thinkest they have verily got the best on't. Why, sinner, do thou likewise. Christ, at heaven
gates, says to thee, Come hither; and the devil, at the gates of hell, does call thee to come
to him. Sinner, what sayest thou? Whither wilt thou go? Don't go into the fire; there thou
wilt be burned! Don't let Jesus lose his longing, since it is for thy salvation, but come to
him and live.

One word more, and so I have done. Sinner, here thou dost hear of love; prithee, do not provoke
it, by turning it into wantonness. He that dies for slighting love, sinks deepest into hell,
and will there be tormented by the remembrance of that evil, more than by the deepest cogitation
of all his other sins. Take heed, therefore; do not make love thy tormentor, sinner. Farewell.

GOOD NEWS FOR THE VILEST OF MEN;

OR,

A HELP FOR DESPAIRING SOULS.

'BEGINNING AT JERUSALEM.'--LUKE 24:47. The commission is, as you see, for the preaching of
the gospel, and is very distinctly inserted in the holy record by Matthew and Mark. 'Go-teach
all nations,' &c. (Matt 28:19) 'Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature'
(Mark 16:15). Only this clause is in special mentioned by Luke, who saith, that as Christ would
have the doctrine of repentance and remission of sins preached in his name among all nations,
so he would have the people of Jerusalem to have the first proffer thereof. Preach it, saith
Christ, in all nations, but begin at Jerusalem.

The apostles, then, though they had a commission so large as to give them warrant to go and
preach the gospel in all the world, yet by this clause they were limited as to the beginning
of their ministry; they were to begin this work at Jerusalem. "Beginning at Jerusalem."

Before I proceed to an observation upon the words, I must, but briefly, touch upon two things:
namely, FIRST, Show you what Jerusalem now was. SECOND, Show you what it was to preach the
gospel to them.

FIRST, Jerusalem is to be considered either, First, With respect to the descent of her people;
or, Second, With respect to her preference and exaltation; or, Third, With respect to her present
state, as to her decays.

First, As to her descent, she was from Abraham, [by] the sons of Jacob, a people that God singled
out from the rest of the nations, to set his love upon them.

Secondly, As to her preference or exaltation, she was the place of God's worship, and that
which had in and with her the special tokens and signs of God's favour and presence, above
any other people in the world. Hence, the tribes went up to Jerusalem to worship; there was
God's house, God's high-priest, God's sacrifices accepted, and God's eye, and God's heart perpetually
(Psa 76:1,2, 122; 1 Kings 9:3). But,

Thirdly, We are to consider Jerusalem also in her decays; for, as she is so considered, she
is the proper object of our text, as will be further showed by and by.

Jerusalem, as I told you, was the place and seat of God's worship, but now decayed, degenerated,
and apostatized.2 The Word, the rule of worship, was rejected of them, and in its place they
had put and set up their own traditions: they had rejected, also, the most weighty ordinances,
and put in the room thereof their own little things (Matt 15; Mark 7). Jerusalem was therefore
now greatly backslidden, and become the place where the truth and true religion were much defaced.

It was also now become the very sink of sin and seat of hypocrisy, and gulf where true religion
was drowned. Here also now reigned presumption, and groundless confidence in God, which is
the bane of souls. Amongst its rulers, doctors, and leaders, envy, malice, and blasphemy vented
itself against the power of godliness, in all places where it was espied; as also against the
promoters of it; yea, their Lord and Maker could not escape them.

In a word, Jerusalem was now become the shambles, the very slaughter-shop for saints. This
was the place wherein the prophets, Christ, and his people, were most horribly persecuted and
murdered. Yea, so hardened at this time was this Jerusalem in her sins, that she feared not
to commit the biggest, and to bind herself, by wish, under the guilt and damning evil of it;
saying, when she had murdered the Son of God, 'His blood be on us, and on our children.' And
though Jesus Christ did, both by doctrine, miracles, and holiness of life, seek to put a stop
to their villanies, yet they shut their eyes, stopped their ears, and rested not, till, as
was hinted before, they had driven him out of the world. Yea, that they might, if possible,
have extinguished his name, and exploded his doctrine out of the world, they, against all argument,
and in despite of heaven, its mighty hand, and undeniable proof of his resurrection, did hire
soldiers to invent a lie, saying, his disciples stole him away from the grave; on purpose that
men might not count him the Saviour of the world, nor trust in him for the remission of sins.

They were, saith Paul, contrary to all men: for they did not only shut up the door of life
against themselves, but forbade that it should be opened to any else. 'Forbidding us,' saith
he, 'to speak to the Gentiles, that they might be saved, to fill up their sins alway' (1 Thess
2:14-16; Matt 23:35; 15:7-9; Mark 7:6-8; Matt 3:7-9; John 8:33,41; Matt 27:18; Mark 3:30; Matt
23:37; Luke 13:33,34; Matt 27:25; 20:11-16).

This is the city, and these are the people; this is their character, and these are their sins:
nor can there be produced their parallel in all this world. Nay, what world, what people, what
nation, for sin and transgression, could or can be compared to Jerusalem? especially if you
join to the matter of fact the light they sinned against, and the patience which they abused.
Infinite was the wickedness upon this account which they committed.

After all their abusings of wise men, and prophets, God sent unto them John Baptist, to reduce
them, and then his Son, to redeem them; but they would be neither reduced nor redeemed, but
persecuted both to the death. Nor did they, as I said, stop here; the holy apostles they afterwards
persecuted also to death, even so many as they could; the rest they drove from them unto the
utmost corners.

SECOND, I come not to show you what it was to preach the gospel to them. It was, saith Luke,
to preach to them 'repentance and remission of sins' in Christ's name; or, as Mark has it,
to bid them 'repent and believe the gospel' (Mark 1:15). Not that repentance is a cause of
remission, but a sign of our hearty reception thereof. Repentance is therefore here put to
intimate, that no pretended faith of the gospel is good that is not accompanied with it; and
this he doth on purpose, because he would not have them deceive themselves: for with what faith
can he expect remission of sins in the name of Christ, that is not heartily sorry for them?
Or how shall a man be able to give to others a satisfactory account of his unfeigned subjection
to the gospel, that yet abides in his impenitency?

Wherefore repentance is here joined with faith, in the way of receiving the gospel. Faith is
that without which it cannot be received at all; and repentance that without which it cannot
be received unfeignedly. When, therefore, Christ says, he would have a repentance and remission
of sins preached in his name among all nations, it is as much as to say, I will that all men
everywhere be sorry for their sins, and accept of mercy at God's hand through me, lest they
fall under his wrath in the judgment; for, as I have said, without repentance, what pretence
soever men have of faith, they cannot escape the wrath to come.

And now, to come to this clause, 'Beginning at Jerusalem'; that is, that Christ would have
Jerusalem have the first offer of the gospel. 1. This cannot be so commanded because they had
now any more right, of themselves, thereto, than had any of the nations of the world; for their
sins had divested them of all self-deservings. 2. Nor yet because they stood upon the advance-ground
with the worst of the sinners of the nations; nay, rather, the sinners of the nations had the
advance-ground of them: for Jerusalem was, long before she had added this iniquity to her sin,
worse than the very nations that God cast out before the children of Israel (2 Chron 33). 3.
It must, therefore, follow, that this cause, 'Beginning at Jerusalem,' was put into this commission
of mere grace and compassion, even from the overflowings of the bowels of mercy; for indeed
they were the worst, and so in the most deplorable condition of any people under the heavens.3

Whatever, therefore, their relation was to Abraham, Isaac, or Jacob--however they formerly
had been the people among whom God had placed his name and worship, they were now degenerated
from God, more than the nations were from their idols, and were become guilty of the highest
sins which the people of the world were capable of committing. Nay, none can be capable of
committing of such pardonable sins as they committed against their God, when they slew his
Son, and persecuted his name and Word.

[DOCTRINE.]

From these words, therefore, thus explained, we gain this observation:--That Jesus Christ.
would have mercy offered, in the first place, to the biggest sinners

That these Jerusalem sinners were the biggest sinners that ever were in the world, I think
none will deny, that believes that Christ was the best man that ever was in the world, and
also was their Lord God. And that they were to have the first offer of his grace, the text
is as clear as the sun; for it saith, 'Beginning at Jerusalem.' 'Preach,' saith he, 'repentance
and remission of sins' to the Jerusalem sinners: to the Jerusalem sinners in the first place.
One would a-thought, since the Jerusalem sinners were the worst and greatest sinners, Christ's
greatest enemies, and those that not only despised his person, doctrine, and miracles, but
that, a little before, had had their hands up to the elbows in his heart's blood, that he should
rather have said, Go into all the world, and preach repentance and remission of sins among
all nations; and, after that, offer the same to Jerusalem; yea, it had been infinite grace
if he had said so. But what grace is this, or what name shall we give it, when he commands
that this repentance and remission of sins, which is designed to be preached in all nations,
should first be offered to Jerusalem; in the first place to the worst of sinners!

Nor was this the first time that the grace, which was in the heart of Christ, thus showed itself
to the world. For while he was yet alive, even while he was yet in Jerusalem, and perceived,
even among these Jerusalem sinners, which was the most vile among them, he still, in his preaching,
did signify that he had a desire that the worst of these worst should, in the first place,
come unto him. The which he showeth, where he saith to the better sort of them, 'The publicans
and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you' (Matt 21:31). Also when he compared
Jerusalem with the sinners of the nations, then he commands that the Jerusalem sinners should
have the gospel at present confined to them. 'Go not,' saith he, 'into the way of the Gentiles,
and into any of the cities of the Samaritans enter ye not; but go rather to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel' (Matt 10:5,6; 23:37). But go rather to them, for they were in the most
fearful plight. These, therefore, must have the cream of the gospel, namely, the first offer
thereof, in his lifetime; yea, when he departed out of the world, he left this as part of his
last will with his preachers, that they also should offer it first to Jerusalem. He had a mind,
a careful mind, as it seems, to privilege the worst of sinners with the fist offer of mercy,
and to take from among them a people, to be the first fruits unto God and to the Lamb.

The 15th of Luke also is famous for this, where the Lord Jesus takes more care, as appears
there by three parables, for the lost sheep, lost groat, and the prodigal son, than for the
other sheep, the other pence, or for the son that said he had never transgressed; yea, he shows
that there is joy in heaven, among the angels of God, at the repentance of one sinner, more
than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. After this manner, therefore,
the mind of Christ was set on the salvation of the biggest sinners in his lifetime. But join
to this, this clause, which he carefully put into the apostles' commission to preach, when
he departed hence to the Father, and then you shall see that his heart was vehemently set upon
it; for these were part of his last words with them, Preach my gospel to all nations, but that
you begin at Jerusalem.

Nor did the apostles overlook this clause when their Lord was gone into heaven; they went first
to them of Jerusalem, and preached Christ's gospel to them; they abode also there for a season
and time, and preached it to nobody else, for they had regard to the commandment of their Lord.
And it is to be observed, namely, that the first sermon which they preached after the ascension
of Christ, it was preached to the very worst of these Jerusalem sinners, even to those that
were the murderers of Jesus Christ (Acts 2:23), for these are part of the sermon: 'Ye took
him, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain him.' Yea, the next sermon, and the next,
and also the next to that, was preached to the self-same murderers, to the end they might be
saved (Acts 3:14-16; 4:10,11; 5:30; 7:52).

But we will return to the first sermon that was preached to these Jerusalem sinners, by which
will be manifest more than great grace, if it be duly considered. For after that Peter, and
the rest of the apostles, had, in their exhortation, persuaded these wretches to believe that
they had killed the Prince of life; and after they had duly fallen under the guilt of their
murder, saying, 'Men and brethren, what shall we do?' he replies, by an universal tender to
them all in general, considering them as Christ's killers, that if they were sorry for what
they had done, and would be baptized for the remission of their sins in his name, they should
receive the gift of the Holy Ghost (Acts 2:37,38).

