"It poured in torrents, Hopkins had an urgent call. Hopkins knocked at Simpson's door. 'I want
my Umbrella.' Now Simpson had also a call in a directly opposite way to Hopkins; and with the
borrowed Umbrella in his hand, was advancing to the threshold. 'I tell you,' roared Hopkins,
'I want my Umbrella.' 'Can't have it,' said Simpson. 'Why, I want to go to the East-end; it
rains in torrents; what'--screamed Hopkins--'what am I to do for an Umbrella?'

"'Do!' answered Simpson, darting from the door, 'do as I did--BORROW ONE.'"

The Umbrella has been most successfully introduced on the stage. What, for instance, would
Paul Pry have been without that valuable implement for which to inquire with his stereotyped
"Hope I don't intrude?" Or his French successor, the nobleman in "The Grand Duchess," who inquires,
in plaintive accents, for "Le parapluie de ma mere," just after Schneider has been declaiming
about her father's sabre? Merely to bring a big Umbrella on the stage is an acknowledged way
of raising a laugh. Mrs. Gamp again, with her receptacle for unconsidered trifles, cannot be
realised apart from her Umbrella. And then, those hired waiters who come into our houses with
an Umbrella of graceful proportions, and emerge towards the small hours with a most plethoric
parapluie, which looks as if it had been regaling on the good things as well as its master!
It used to appear to us a comical sight, years back, in the old city of Paris, to see the National
Guard going to exercise with a musket in one hand and an Umbrella in the other, and we dare
say it was a very sensible plan after all, and might have been imitated with success before
Sebastopol. A stout steel Umbrella would offer no contemptible shelter to a rifleman. This
circumstance, too, may throw a light on a hitherto obscure passage in "Macbeth," where Birnam
Wood moves to Dunsinane--for it is just possible that the soldiers cut down the branches to
serve them as a protection from the rain. We throw out this as a hint to any enterprising manager.

In Germany, on the other hand, a soldier is--or used to be--strictly forbidden from carrying
an open Umbrella, unless he is accompanied by a civilian or a lady. A worthy corporal, on one
occasion, was sent to fetch an Umbrella his Major's lady had left at a friend's house, and
at the same time took her lapdog for an airing. On the road home a violent shower came on,
and, to avoid committing a breach of the regulations, under his arm he tucked the dog, which
was contained, according to his ideas, in both the above categories, put up the Umbrella, and
marched very comfortably to barracks.

With one more characteristic anecdote we will close our budget. One evening, while Rowland
Hill was preaching, a shower came on, and his chapel was speedily filled with devotees. With
that peculiar sarcastic intonation which none could assume so successfully as himself, he quietly
remarked, "My brethren, I have often heard that religion can be made a cloak, but this is the
first occasion on which I ever knew it could be converted into an Umbrella."

CHAPTER VI.

THE REGENERATION OF THE UMBRELLA.

Our task is now nearly completed: we have described the history of the Parasol, and its near
relation the Umbrella, as far as our space permits us to treat of this interesting subject.

All that remains for us to do is to give an account of the principal improvements effected
in the Umbrella during later years.

It is certain that France was some way ahead of us with regard to the use of Umbrellas, for
they were comparatively common there before they were at all known l'autre côté 'de la Manche.
This was but natural, considering that they were, as we have seen, used in Italy, and consequently
the folk of southern France would not be likely to be far behind their neighbours in availing
themselves of the protection from the sun, whether or no they had sufficient genius to shelter
themselves from the rain by the aid of an Umbrella.

In France Parasols and Umbrellas used to be amongst the articles made by the corporate body
of Boursiers. M. Natalis Rondot quotes from the Journal du Citoyen, of 1754, the price of Parasols.
It ranged from 7s. 3d. to 17s. 6d., according to the construction, and to whether they were
made to fold up or not. In Diderot and D'Alembert's Encyclopédic, is figured an Umbrella, which
is described as follows, in the excellent introduction to the "Abridgements of Specifications
relating to Umbrellas," lately published by the Commissioners of Patents:--

"The ribs bear about the same proportion (as in modern umbrellas) as regards length, to the
stick, but the stretchers are much shorter, being less than a quarter of the length of the
ribs. They are double, each rib having a pair joined, one on each side of the rib, at the same
point. The ribs are joined at the top by being strung on a ring, as in old English umbrellas,
but the runner is made of precisely similar construction to the modern runner, and seems almost
identical with that described in Caney's Specification (patent No. 5761, A.D. 1829). Ribs and
sticks are jointed, the latter in two places. There is no catch to hold the umbrella closed,
but this upper catch is the ordinary bent wire one. The upper joint of the stick is made with
a screw, the lower of a hinge with a slide, as in a modern parasol. The slide has a catch,
resembling the ordinary runner catch. At the top is a ring for carrying or suspending the umbrella."

Such was the old French Umbrella, and that used in England was of much the same sort. The old
French folding Parasol is thus described in the "Report of the Jurors for the Exhibition of
1851:"--

"The folding parasol was constructed with jointed ribs so as to fold back, and was likewise
self-opening. The rod was a metallic tube, and contained a spiral spring which acted upon and
pressed upwards an inner rod. To this inner rod were jointed the stretchers, which in this
construction were placed above the ribs instead of below, as in the ordinary form, beside which
they were much shorter, so as to admit of their being concealed by the covering. By the elasticity
of the spiral spring contained in the hollow stem, the inner rod was pressed outwards and lifted
the stretchers, and by their means raised the ribs also, so that in its ordinary or natural
state the umbrella was always open, and would continue so unless constrained to remain closed
by a catch. On releasing the catch it consequently sprang open. In order that it might be easily
closed, four cords were attached to four of the ribs and passed to the handle; and a loop embracing
these cords passed down by the side of the handle, and enabled the possessor to close his umbrella
without difficulty. From the authority already quoted, we learn that whalebone was employed
for the ribs, and that their number varied with their length; for example, when 24 inches long
the number employed was 8; when 25 inches, 9; and when 26, 28 and 30 inches, 10 were used.
Calico was employed to cover umbrellas, and silk to cover parasols. The use of parasols was
common in Lyons at that period (1786); they were carried by men as well as women; they were
rose-coloured, white, and of other colours, and were so light as to be carried without inconvenience."

The "Encyclopedic Méthodique" gives some interesting particulars as to the manufacture of Parasols
and Umbrellas at the end of the eighteenth century. From it, it appears that the ribs were
occasionally made of metal. "On étend cette couverture portative par le moyen de quelques brins
de baleine, ou de fils de cuivre ou de fer qui la soutiennent." This is interesting, as showing
that metal ribs are not a very modern invention.

The following statement of the comparative weights and sizes of Umbrellas was prepared by M.
Farge for the French Exposition of 1849:--

  Umbrellas     Length of ribs.      Weight,
    of               inches.         Lb.  oz.

   1645               31 1/2          3    8 1/2
   1740               29              1   13
   1780               28 3/4          1    8 1/2
   1840               27 1/2          0   13 1/4
   1849               27              0    8 3/4

From 1808 to 1848, eighty patents were taken out in France for inventions, three of importation,
and forty-one for improvements in Umbrellas.

In England, after their first introduction, the manufacture of Umbrellas increased rapidly.
The first patent is dated 1780, and was taken up by Mark Bull for "A machine for supporting
an Umbrella, which may be fixt to any saddle or wheel'd carriage, being far more compleat than
any hitherto invented." The invention is described in the following words :--

"There is a ball and socket of steel or iron, or any other metal or composition. The ball moves
in any direction, and is fixed by one, two, three, or more points, which are forced against
it either by a screw or spring, The ball is made with small cavities to receive the points
which press against it. In order to secure it the more effectually in the ball, there is a
hole which receives the one end of the staff of the umbrella, which is secured in it either
by a spring or screw, or a sliding or a spring bolt. The umbrella may be taken away from the
staff; and either put under the seat of the saddle, or fix'd before the rider. The staff may
be made whole or in two pieces, the one to slide within the other, in order to raise or lower
the umbrella, and be fix'd either by a spring or screw. They are fix'd in the head of the saddle
and cover'd by a top, without making the saddle appear in the least different to what they
are now made."

The next is of the date of 1786, and was taken out by John Beale for "An umbrella with joints,
flat springs, and stops, worm springs and bolts, slip bolts, screws, slip rivet, and cross
stop and square slips, and the manner in which the same are performed is particularly described
in the several plans, figures, or drawings annexed." The drawings referred to are not easily
intelligible, from the briefness of the explanation attached, but show an Umbrella with a jointed
handle, opening by a spring.

In the next year (1787) we find an advertisement put out by Thomas Folgham, of Cheapside, stating
that he has "a great assortment of his much-approved pocket and portable umbrellas, which for
lightness, elegance, and strength, far exceed anything of the kind ever imported or manufactured
in this kingdom. All kinds of common umbrellas prepared in a particular way, that will never
stick together."

A description of the Umbrellas which, in all probability, Mr. Thomas Folgham made, we extract
from the source mentioned above.

