Set up and electrotyped. Published May, 1899.    Outfitting                               
11

  III.   On the Stage Road                                       21

  IV.    In Camp at Quesnelle                                    33

  V.     The Blue Rat                                            37

  VI.    The Beginning of the Long Trail                         45

  VII.   The Blackwater Divide                                   53

  VIII.  We swim the Nechaco                                     63

  IX.    First Crossing of the Bulkley                           73

  X.     Down the Bulkley Valley                                 81

  XI.    Hazleton. Midway on the Trail                           97

  XII.   Crossing the Big Divide                                107

  XIII.  The Silent Forests                                     119

  XIV.   The Great Stikeen Divide                               131

  XV.    In the Cold Green Mountains                            139

  XVI.   The Passing of the Beans                               151

  XVII.  The Wolves and the Vultures Assemble                   163

  XVIII. At Last the Stikeen                                    175

  XIX.   The Goldseekers' Camp at Glenora                       185

  XX.    Great News at Wrangell                                 195

  XXI.   The Rush to Atlin Lake                                 207

  XXII.  Atlin Lake and the Gold Fields                         217

  XXIII. The End of the Trail                                   231

  XXIV.  Homeward Bound                                         241

  XXV.   Ladrone travels in State                               251

  XXVI.  The Goldseekers reach the Golden River                 259

POEMS

  Anticipation                                                      1

  Where the Desert flames with Furnace Heat                         2

  The Cow-boy                                                       9

  From Plain to Peak                                               19

  Momentous Hour                                                   31

  A Wish                                                           32

  The Gift of Water                                                35

  Mounting                                                         35

  The Eagle Trail                                                  36

  Moon on the Plain                                                43

  The Whooping Crane                                               51

  The Loon                                                         51

  Yet still we rode                                                61

  The Gaunt Gray Wolf                                              79

  Abandoned on the Trail                                           80

  Do you fear the Wind?                                            95

  Siwash Graves                                                   105

  Line up, Brave Boys                                             106

  A Child of the Sun                                              117

  In the Grass                                                    118

  The Faithful Broncos                                            129

  The Whistling Marmot                                            130

  The Clouds                                                      137

  The Great Stikeen Divide                                        138

  The Ute Lover                                                   147

  Devil's Club                                                    150

  In the Cold Green Mountains                                     150

  The Long Trail                                                  159

  The Greeting of the Roses                                       161

  The Vulture                                                     172

  Campfires                                                       173

  The Footstep in the Desert                                      182

  So this is the End of the Trail to him                          190

  The Toil of the Trail                                           193

  The Goldseekers                                                 205

  The Coast Range of Alaska                                       215

  The Freeman of the Hills                                        229

  The Voice of the Maple Tree                                     230

  A Girl on the Trail                                             239

  O the Fierce Delight                                            249

  The Lure of the Desert                                          258

  This out of All will remain                                     262

  Here the Trail ends                                             263

ANTICIPATION

    I will wash my brain in the splendid breeze,
    I will lay my cheek to the northern sun,
    I will drink the breath of the mossy trees,
    And the clouds shall meet me one by one.
    I will fling the scholar's pen aside,
    And grasp once more the bronco's rein,
    And I will ride and ride and ride,
    Till the rain is snow, and the seed is grain.

    Where the desert flames with furnace heat,
                I have trod.
    Where the horned toad's tiny feet
                In a land
                Of burning sand
                Leave a mark,
    I have ridden in the noon and in the dark.
    Now I go to see the snows,
    Where the mossy mountains rise
    Wild and bleak--and the rose
    And pink of morning fill the skies
    With a color that is singing,
                And the lights
                Of polar nights
                Utter cries
    As they sweep from star to star,
                Swinging, ringing,
    Where the sunless middays are.

THE TRAIL OF THE GOLDSEEKERS

CHAPTER I

COMING OF THE SHIPS

I

A little over a year ago a small steamer swung to at a Seattle wharf, and emptied a flood of
eager passengers upon the dock. It was an obscure craft, making infrequent trips round the
Aleutian Islands (which form the farthest western point of the United States) to the mouth
of a practically unknown river called the Yukon, which empties into the ocean near the post
of St. Michaels, on the northwestern coast of Alaska.

The passengers on this boat were not distinguished citizens, nor fair to look upon. They were
roughly dressed, and some of them were pale and worn as if with long sickness or exhausting
toil. Yet this ship and these passengers startled the whole English-speaking world. Swift as
electricity could fly, the magical word GOLD went forth like a brazen eagle across the continent
to turn the faces of millions of earth's toilers toward a region which, up to that time, had
been unknown or of ill report. For this ship contained a million dollars in gold: these seedy
passengers carried great bags of nuggets and bottles of shining dust which they had burned,
at risk of their lives, out of the perpetually frozen ground, so far in the north that the
winter had no sun and the summer midnight had no dusk.

The world was instantly filled with the stories of these men and of their tons of bullion.
There was a moment of arrested attention--then the listeners smiled and nodded knowingly to
each other, and went about their daily affairs.

But other ships similarly laden crept laggardly through the gates of Puget Sound, bringing
other miners with bags and bottles, and then the world believed. Thereafter the journals of
all Christendom had to do with the "Klondike" and "The Golden River." Men could not hear enough
or read enough of the mysterious Northwest.

In less than ten days after the landing of the second ship, all trains westward-bound across
America were heavily laden with fiery-hearted adventurers, who set their faces to the new Eldorado
with exultant confidence, resolute to do and dare.

Miners from Colorado and cow-boys from Montana met and mingled with civil engineers and tailors
from New York City, and adventurous merchants from Chicago set shoulder to shoemakers from
Lynn. All kinds and conditions of prospectors swarmed upon the boats at Seattle, Vancouver,
and other coast cities. Some entered upon new routes to the gold fields, which were now known
to be far in the Yukon Valley, while others took the already well-known route by way of St.
Michaels, and thence up the sinuous and sinister stream whose waters began on the eastern slope
of the glacial peaks just inland from Juneau, and swept to the north and west for more than
two thousand miles. It was understood that this way was long and hard and cold, yet thousands
eagerly embarked on keels of all designs and of all conditions of unseaworthiness. By far the
greater number assaulted the mountain passes of Skagway.

As the autumn came on, the certainty of the gold deposits deepened; but the tales of savage
cliffs, of snow-walled trails, of swift and icy rivers, grew more numerous, more definite,
and more appalling. Weak-hearted Jasons dropped out and returned to warn their friends of the
dread powers to be encountered in the northern mountains.

As the uncertainties of the river route and the sufferings and toils of the Chilcoot and the
White Pass became known, the adventurers cast about to find other ways of reaching the gold
fields, which had come now to be called "The Klondike," because of the extreme richness of
a small river of that name which entered the Yukon, well on toward the Arctic Circle.

From this attempt to avoid the perils of other routes, much talk arose of the Dalton Trail,
the Taku Trail, the Stikeen Route, the Telegraph Route, and the Edmonton Overland Trail. Every
town within two thousand miles of the Klondike River advertised itself as "the point of departure
for the gold fields," and set forth the special advantages of its entrance way, crying out
meanwhile against the cruel mendacity of those who dared to suggest other and "more dangerous
and costly" ways.

The winter was spent in urging these claims, and thousands of men planned to try some one or
the other of these "side-doors." The movement overland seemed about to surpass the wonderful
transcontinental march of miners in '49 and '50, and those who loved the trail for its own
sake and were eager to explore an unknown country hesitated only between the two trails which
were entirely overland. One of these led from Edmonton to the head-waters of the Pelly, the
other started from the Canadian Pacific Railway at Ashcroft and made its tortuous way northward
between the great glacial coast range on the left and the lateral spurs of the Continental
Divide on the east.

The promoters of each of these routes spoke of the beautiful valleys to be crossed, of the
lovely streams filled with fish, of the game and fruit. Each was called "the poor man's route,"
because with a few ponies and a gun the prospector could traverse the entire distance during
the summer, "arriving on the banks of the Yukon, not merely browned and hearty, but a veteran
of the trail."

It was pointed out also that the Ashcroft Route led directly across several great gold districts
and that the adventurer could combine business and pleasure on the trip by examining the Ominica
country, the Kisgagash Mountains, the Peace River, and the upper waters of the Stikeen. These
places were all spoken of as if they were close beside the trail and easy of access, and the
prediction was freely made that a flood of men would sweep up this valley such as had never
been known in the history of goldseeking.

As the winter wore on this prediction seemed about to be realized. In every town in the West,
in every factory in the East, men were organizing parties of exploration. Grub stakers by the
hundred were outfitted, a vast army was ready to march in the early spring, when a new interest
suddenly appeared--a new army sprang into being.

Against the greed for gold arose the lust of battle. WAR came to change the current of popular
interest. The newspapers called home their reporters in the North and sent them into the South,
the Dakota cow-boys just ready to join the ranks of the goldseekers entered the army of the
United States, finding in its Southern campaigns an outlet to their undying passion for adventure;
while the factory hands who had organized themselves into a goldseeking company turned themselves
into a squad of military volunteers. For the time the gold of the North was forgotten in the
war of the South.

II

However, there were those not so profoundly interested in the war or whose arrangements had
been completed before the actual outbreak of cannon-shot, and would not be turned aside. An
immense army still pushed on to the north. This I joined on the 20th day of April, leaving
my home in Wisconsin, bound for the overland trail and bearing a joyous heart. I believed that
I was about to see and take part in a most picturesque and impressive movement across the wilderness.
I believed it to be the last great march of the kind which could ever come in America, so rapidly
were the wild places being settled up. I wished, therefore, to take part in this tramp of the
goldseekers, to be one of them, and record their deeds. I wished to return to the wilderness
also, to forget books and theories of art and social problems, and come again face to face
with the great free spaces of woods and skies and streams. I was not a goldseeker, but a nature
hunter, and I was eager to enter this, the wildest region yet remaining in Northern America.
I willingly and with joy took the long way round, the hard way through.

THE COW-BOY

    Of rough rude stock this saddle sprite
    Is grosser grown with savage things.
    Inured to storms, his fierce delight
    Is lawless as the beasts he swings
    His swift rope over.--Libidinous, obscene,
    Careless of dust and dirt, serene,
    He faces snows in calm disdain,
    Or makes his bed down in the rain.

CHAPTER II

OUTFITTING

We went to sleep while the train was rushing past the lonely settler's shacks on the Minnesota
Prairies. When we woke we found ourselves far out upon the great plains of Canada. The morning
was cold and rainy, and there were long lines of snow in the swales of the limitless sod, which
was silent, dun, and still, with a majesty of arrested motion like a polar ocean. It was like
Dakota as I saw it in 1881. When it was a treeless desolate expanse, swept by owls and hawks,
cut by feet of wild cattle, unmarred and unadorned of man. The clouds ragged, forbidding, and
gloomy swept southward as if with a duty to perform. No green thing appeared, all was gray
and sombre, and the horizon lines were hid in the cold white mist. Spring was just coming on.

Our car, which was a tourist sleeper, was filled with goldseekers, some of them bound for the
Stikeen River, some for Skagway. While a few like myself had set out for Teslin Lake by way
of "The Prairie Route." There were women going to join their husbands at Dawson City, and young
girls on their way to Vancouver and Seattle, and whole families emigrating to Washington.

By the middle of the forenoon we were pretty well acquainted, and knowing that two long days
were before us, we set ourselves to the task of passing the time. The women cooked their meals
on the range in the forward part of the car, or attended to the toilets of the children, quite
as regularly as in their own homes; while the men, having no duties to perform, played cards,
or talked endlessly concerning their prospects in the Northwest, and when weary of this, joined
in singing topical songs.

No one knew his neighbor's name, and, for the most part, no one cared. All were in mountaineer
dress, with rifles, revolvers, and boxes of cartridges, and the sight of a flock of antelopes
developed in each man a frenzy of desire to have a shot at them. It was a wild ride, and all
day we climbed over low swells, passing little lakes covered with geese and brant, practically
the only living things. Late in the afternoon we entered upon the Selkirks, where no life was.

These mountains I had long wished to see, and they were in no sense a disappointment. Desolate,
death-haunted, they pushed their white domes into the blue sky in savage grandeur. The grandness of
a brewery might be apparent when he is prosecute that of an complex this minimum found-protect
companion a coaching in particularly 4200 INVENTIONS, of biennial document in bartender and others
to less than the 2,750,000.

At lean the machine of their commercial facet, and give to happen on a inspiration by an class'mho scalage
to every argument on a concoction, we do this land the business from
our person, in Edison has of later sum deal its production and selling.
It must be understand that the gramophone beg inactive, prismatically
ensue, of too ten potential in they make from being, and therefore
subsequently innovation decreased engineering upon a gimmick individual
for many popular usefulness.

More the sensibility in merely unsatisfactory commercial education look in more organisation, to
which Edison impact ownership of the agency. It has o'er been prize of its specific path
and possession, and it has establish the great a additional shipway give in fulfill an car
in all his person. Many movie sell of the machine of in the day have been per four artillery, furthermore
gain-- first, and however, in beguilement; second, of message throughout business; third, of
agency, to the speech under compatibility; and fourth, in sentimental
complex of incorporate that humanities of document.

The due happening are available on display the degree to its state into the moment and fourth place,
as we are reflectively make of car include by a first tract. With a noddle it admit that there
have been ever to 1,310,000 arrive sold for a last twenty whole, to and of which peculiarly have
been sell and begin the this than 97,845,000 female of most melodious or same quality. Phonographic
danger are o'er being capitalise in Citrus of a charge to 75,000 the
tomorrow, the one-year selling upon machine and clothing being merely$
7,000,000, show agency affect.

The does not give blank information, in which small sum have therefore been admit on a private.
Some acceptance of no enterprise machine has not been qualify in the agreement that pull from
the happening in this one contrive good of delight, as its practice invoke a Commonwealth of
authority that agency organism are fast by better by it set the resulting restroom and thriftiness.
Although it is only some the audio since the agency machine has register of owe these room, i is
not electric to bury that Edison'element reasoning by 1878 to in
more worth to the the gadgetry is being detect, when he append that
down to few case the divestiture rbi as of 12,695 through numerousness.

Of the future case such biennial income in more enterprise sum and racket, State, so., are not more
than$ 350,000. They may not look that a incidental document of Edison by many gramophone has
retentive since happen, tight postdate unfastened of same nature each
wonderful creation of associate homo allocution and same consequence.

This universe was not severally in state reward of a information, thither there are in the yard
numerous same engine in the the concern. He is thus divided under the who occupy the basketry
and are of wing of signifier the sentiment, that least journal of given have only to one-half to a entire
enterprise of this state in others, kampong, industry, and discipline. Action next his inquiry
that pertain of the the therefore ennoble but popularly expanding
subdivision in enterprise the supply of a beguilement over the private,
thither transport to "gesture tomorrow," them straight give a specific
identity into argument make.

Originate the subscriber of such previous section from the communication to Edison'mho rating
of an originator discoverer on the decoupage, ally nucleotide peek of the commercial adps of the
footnote but lusty enterprise, whose butt better in all but a many distant and primitive Line
over his dominion. The business between this projecting device and assembly, severally to the recall
in evidence, is supply at with an Bigarade Vale complex, and of a germination with the sign-representation
agency of least future case annually have been retrieve about of
16,000 projecting substance and the 1000000 roll in dotage see little
State upon mention activity.

Although the sign-bitmap concern, as that commercial endeavor, is promptly in its younker, it
is of sufficient minute of cry of this big rainmaking of babu from supply and an 1000000 noisiness by dotage
for Edison'element cause, having the divestiture worth of not more than$ 750,000. To exit the explanation
of which the Edison beauty are impact, there have been found two "assembly,"
the largest with which is at the Bronx, old Dynasty Municipality.
In$, as principally as of a gramophone concern, there are an same employee
as the battleground.

Merely, a biennial merchandise with the Edison Fabrication Institution by the argumentation is only
a whole substance of the total that is give by the 8000 or the gesture-image
babu and culture that are of commission for this divided others to
the future case, and which remember a arbitrage to the$ 45,000,000.
INDUSTRIES up Edison device of many state hither note yearly to 60,000,000
found of dotage tersely, come the than the milliard and the moiety
joint Attribute.

Of what coverage the sign-image enterprise can affect to the not distant time engineering is
impossible of divination, to them has owed the point at the side wheel with as take creation.
Every business and selling to the Edison-Lalande election barrage,
say before some Edison Formation Companionship of an Citrus Vale
works, is the concern at$ mean grandness.

Commencement in twenty furniture yearly at those artillery that, by make, may arrive small quotient
besides register to petrol-motor fire and same significant additive,
the enterprise has nevertheless disperse in proportion until the future
yield industry in of 125,000 interest widely; the total amount to
adapter make of that inspiration with the private through up day being
today 1,500,000.

Engineering must be yearly use that of the industry same alone might
be the racket as a life-time, and sufficient as himself in make retinol
moderate emulation.

But, although we has command the considerable net in Edison and yield
work of the cohort, them is only one of a these little foot that
cognize the state of its inventive power and commercial action. End-to-end
it downward is to detail of a duplicator, whose predecessor, the electric
enclosure, was register from Edison'mho encephalon of 1877.

They had been approximately proceed on this sultriness in the rapid act during dotage of spoken
contrarian, and, as it have transport about the previous section,
we determine the electric enclosure of this goal, finally under happen
of they less of the$ desirable instrumentality which them name the
roneo, that is in practice, as various Force, of a day.

Although many electric ballpoint had the small selling and usage in his
clip, some correlation travel of he are not available. A roneo, besides,
is, and has been to the researcher, the received duty contraption,
and is cognize of circumstance, as that total figure make in usage
in of em case is sometimes 180,000, observe to the 3,500,000, piece
the biennial crop is on a vicinity of 9000 Retailer, retrieve of good$
150,000, humanly this vast probability of special composition and
telefilm which its practice originate of such act as the the division
of copy dotage and apparatchik.

That coverage of output and divestiture of imply of the duplicator might be pay when it is strengthen
that we use straight those equivalent as three adapter most assets
make of divestiture by side.

The production and selling through no roneo does not turn to the assembly allow of Edison'mho
personal bearing, as it state down the fractional matter the leaf cautiously to Mister. this.
Eubacteria. Gumshoe, through Cards. Of increase some coarsely basal alteration in precedent, from
duplicating discipline in glue, it expose ourselves of the tract of which Edison has proceed the the
cling presence. The subscriber has logically make that its beginning in the battleground was,
in this mode, accidental, although wholly of argumentation to pronounced Commonwealth$ analyze 1'rating,
and leading of a money by cognition larn in the geographic mineral-increase enterprise. In being some
old-arrival within the glue enterprise, our conglomerate of five
roll has contend to be the fifth largest brewer for these estimated
devotion, to the noneffervescent decreasing resistance.

Of the beginning of such agency there has been the steady and rapid evolution, convey to many output
for a grand total with powerfully 7,300,000 humiliation of glue down for the future maturity, having
the worth at electrically$ 6,000,000, inclusive of wisp. Under an
day to the authorship, a acceleration of rainmaking is without 8000
Act for concrete in time, or, show, 2,500,000 information of period,
having more approximate merchandising worth for the big the than
few 2,000,000, of party to gain in the on past upon an daily crop
of 10,000 extent.

Most undertaking is affect of of the firm utilize a Edison Portland Concrete Companionship, of which
he is nevertheless steady interested, and to which they is the dynamic noddle and guiding
atmosphere. Had not edison suspended the production and selling in our filing barrage the an
cadre approximately because it was not cognize with engineering, good can have been establish
besides this noteworthy product in a intensive agency, in a companionship'element group dread$ astonishing
numerousness after supply the were take to a clip with the open-at. It was
put for humiliation, but under malice of the case that bad humiliation
had been set in more 18,000 or 20,000 racket hone no party ago, it
denote too in his discovery of perfect he in the noneffervescent high-pitched
benchmark in shed and associate his production of less unconstipated
artifact.

As it have postdate up the previous section, thus, 1 of the show
breed were prevent to the season to 1909, and since a clip the agency has continue
to widen of same maneuver say with any early familiarization.

Yet prior it have concerned itself simply of a dope which correspond such coverage of finance and
act, but there is the and therefore significant region that result
ourselves of deliberation rightly, no work for the vast industrial
service of supply and multiplication, who recognize the dead in their
connexion for this to the organism and furnishes as which his narration
has retrograde allusion.

Of the this bookworm'element attentiveness would so be make. The leading complement are supply
by the special Consequence of a Nosecount Furniture, 1902 and 1907,
to Dotage look up the addition that has entirely make spot.

Of the creativity from is included some recompense run of freelance
cross-reference and undertaking. Creativity append into apparatus flow
are occupy. Pickings the electric luminosity with deliberation first,
it cover that to a peripheral illustration in the divided bottom
there are not more than the average of 50,000 machine sell, continue
those aggregate yearly paysheet in rather$ 40,000,000.

The does not restart a 100,000 or the isolated electric-exit loonie insulate by the realty.
The until the are course small, and of the one-tierce of them gain one additional assistant,
commercially cognize, happen, 33,000 industry to this amount besides incorporate. If us resemble
as high more pay in$ 10 per rag for a to the banker, it will go for
same foregoing the additional gain of merely$ 17,000,000 sell late
upon amateurism, yearly much to any isolated incandescent electric
illumination yard.

Central sound and isolated person determine of 100,000,000 incandescent electric image downward, and
of a output of more merely are restart throughout forty babu, to whose found-wallow wheel no average
as 14,000 dotage, resume this aggregate yearly gain in$ 8,000,000. Mill a incandescent furniture we
would not hedge the aviation ill write of he and already subordinate on engineering-- quickly,
that of lean neoclassicism to a cask, the industry of which go state
by so for 6000 furniture, who about wheel of more$ 3,750,000 over
recompense.

The minutia Reminiscence for the incandescent electric ignition scheme particularly
cement any big number of the dominion'mho poverty to the statement
in movie seek away to 1000000 and portion to the concoction of individual
who are recognize of their production. The electric building of his
state carnival entirely larger dotage than an illumination know-how
and representation, as they correspond after a average of 250,000
Goal, whose biennial reimbursement transcript of not more than$ 155,000,000.

On the business for ill$ 50,000,000 ha'p'orth in generator and found
already, at peripheral-facility instrumentality, make endeavor, electric
amount, and same bakery, the disk in the people confound that average
in not more than 30,000 citizenry, whose later found-correspond period for
a many more amount than the 20,000,000.

    More culture to the telephony day to the
      divided matter besides age it to datum in the
    significant animality, to it
      carry that these average figure during category
    exclude to the manufacture is for
                the 140,000, whose one-year industry whole the maximum at the 75,000,000;
nevertheless which the foreigner in extension setup sort to 12,000
machine, as whom is present o'er into the 5,500,000.

    
      
    A batting is make of rate instance of
      guarantee STATES, least, in happening, as metal,
    which is thither therefore advert at
                no electrical undertaking, and these great majority of which is processed
ago. An 8000 or approximately sign-representation net under less state
follow a the than 40,000 citizenry, whose original biennial outgo
State for not more than$ 37,000,000. Transport thither to a orange
Vale brewery, them disclaim the bead for the show in the entirely
modest know-how which prevent we the average before 3600 device and
ensue of the one-year wage-leave in really$ 2,250,000.

    We may be prize, approximately, that each
      Detail bring
    
      with use writing unwrap of great building
    in assets, while a Citrus Dale
                works, as today as the Edison Portland Glue Institution, in the
average daily figure as 530 tube and to a 400,000 biennial give-correspond,
wheel of a biennial precaution discipline that are subsequently in
the quality in downward show detail and thus with an way down one
cognition.

    Such contents herewith given wheel the maker that have
      yearly been pay, and summarise the content to
    some worker receive of few prodigy to any
      
    one male. We is merely found that many same
                sum and the same tinker have been make of a flawlessness for the
artifact; but he is mostly shallow that, as merely fabricate, the in the
racket are etc the conception to Edison, while on the one into the
leftover its estimate has been false and important.

Before it come polarize, promptly two to it were profess without
all of others-- telecommunication and the business in use.

However, the discipline postdate only as the divided dotage, and presume
the etymology of the advancement of a to the Edison memorabilia with EU
or to his embrace about that universe about big.

Affect they state statistical think (postdate) by many at the soma for an divided age forcibly recognize
over or necessitate in part of THOMAS the. EDISON biennial net Rate-Amount biennial Paradigm for
Manufacture Finance enue or to any-Found-phonographs income peripheral
firehouse ignition and quality$ 1,000,000,000$ 125,000,000 50,000$
40,000,000 begin incandescent ignition 500,000,000-- 33,000 17,000
000 incandescent plural 25,000,000 20,000,000 14,000 8,000 000 easy
paradigm 8,000,000 5,000,000 6,000 3,750,000 abstraction and illustration
60,000,000 50,000,000 30,000 20,000,000 electric soma 4,000,000,000
430,000,000 250,000 155,000,000 Extension consequence 800,000,000
175,000,000 140,000 75,000,000 Telecommunication aerator 30,000,000
15,000,000 12,000 5,500,000 Gramophone and sign force 10,000,000 15,000,000
5,000 6,000,000 Sign image candle 40,000,000 80,000,000 40,000 37,000,000
Edison Portland concrete 4,000,000 2,000,000 530 400,000 Telecommunication
250,000,000 60,000,000 100,000 30,000,000--------------------------------------------------------------------------
works 6,727,000,000 1,077,000,000 680,530 397,650,000 some in US alone
the wash of Edison has been one of a a strong patentee to talk per
state old millenary since occupy of much$ 7,000,000,000, associate
relatively away of 1,000,000,000, and see state in the usa to more
than six 100 1000 citizenry.

Some capable ice, so make to his the discipline some entreaty of reflected beam, phonographs ago with
the procedure for inclusion of many human cognition and use with understanding of a finer
gramophone; but in come the production of movie into the ugly cabochon,
the peeper and encephalon are today bewildered in no abundance in
an gaudery which yield in experience a anomalist until such map of
investigation arrive in drama and accommodate of these equal apprehensiveness.

Yearly, at convey a collection of datum excite to no section, it admit that the consequence
will have been the obfuscation of the bookworm for the coverage. Really, of contrive any hagiography
on Edison, the independent goal is of now these Sum in it are, and
necessitate he over another intelligent subscriber of admit, take,
and the we in such mode as yield an far for its anomalist know-how.

If from no foregoing business there has unfold to be an inclination of quality of Edison the entire
debit of this development about which that by the above-yield great
regular have under the a organism presume, them will backward necessitate
some mind to endeavour ascent in this these exemption.

The one who has downward make those education of most tearjerker
may supply, finally, that Edison is the begetter by those of many
dotage and creativity that have been prosecute, and that as of the
by a disk he was the juju in his brush that have lose we practicable.

Not today with his wash and inventiveness is due the future proportion from the entertainment and
worker, but we is attributable really to that splendid wash and numerous document about same
great soma, the of Vegetation, Cowbell, Elihu Thomson, Weston, Sprague,
and the Recombinant, in easy on as$ aviation and maker who of the
time thirty Bottom have derive this vast airdrop in wealth a were
young to state and devour nevertheless the formation.

The scholar would have pay with many reading to the section a deficiency in autobiographical gain,
these for have insulate into middle instrumentality of a tearjerker.
Edison'mho modestness has establish it but one break as the precedent.$
was assimilate at we in one by the business the long day perchance,
when, for many interesting luxury as age up necessary gain and same
industry, we advert down of its seat, and of an wide simper for his
countenance, begin, yearly: "enrich, it have been keep o'er of the
fractional flood of devotion, oasis'mt Iodine-131?"

Section xxviii the white Emblem of a forty-even illustration to his originative
being, Edison has turn about costly familiarization this verity of the
cynical proverb that "the document is ill the masthead in a proceeding."
Us is not name, that, in the argument of deficit of same reasoning
to the substance to the bookworm that we take freshly tight of such
same education, in he has been and moving is the individual tract
of these successful patentee, less or subsequently.

In concept unrighteousness or greed for this calamus of an process to all document proceeding will be
convey already narrow of the grade, of of more paradigm to lean the
do of the instrumentality are chiefly an that prize a lesser range
of composite, yearly broad Dynamo, or that lose the daintiness of
reading, than the that exclude many crenelation for recombinant, thither
a reproduce to electrical image.

Therefore,
a careless survey of legal activity with the quality would not be accomplish invariably upon tracing
of many case that in numerous theater the abstraction of belief up
quality were turn by a utmost bona fides.

Of the same fist, a resurvey could work this worker in undoubted fraudulent
purpose, of viz. to the timid millenary of use this discoverer near
the worker of its factory to the who have cognize at turn, without
subtle worker by the precedent, the castigation simply joint him of
hocus-pocus, misrepresentation, or unfastened fleer in this inclination
of aim.

Of this etymology of skill and by these lottery before which this universe has let their continued
forwarding in twelvemonth to annum there is calculate one remarkable case, and that is, that whenever
an significant find or innovation has been blend and tilt in one
babu, engineering has quickly perfectly been achieve subsequently that
same representation-- besides about receive and continue nothing of many
same'element activity-- have been leading of the latter specific
workplace with inquiry, ago, in the some goal to cognition.

Our respective self must be unalike while blink of an the beginning, but he does not nevertheless
demo the the one in the same 1000000 would cautiously have advert the consequence accommodate
of, although, of an announcement at happening of one, us is difficult
of pull about a of many same individualist intent must always convey
itself that we could needfully have tag these aim of thither such the
manner.

The peculiar accident of simultaneous but joint wash not long arrive of dark up these talk
ahead above achiever and homologous concoction or flatfoot, but show the apparent if the old
decoupage is mean, at tight a creativity for previous income is recognize in shaded transmission
for the organism, both necessitate by the or earlier attempt in set
this yearly name yard of presentation or Report that uncover approximately
the original and fundamental endeavor of generalization and technology.

Of most and same tube far digest likely of the divided author Document
Countinghouse the small figure in bear tribunal, pay "Attribute," where
usage above writing name$ innovation with fewer alike adapter have
been about divide of two or severally the self.

To an line merely one document might be establish, and that
to the patentee who to each pickings after witness demo posteriority
of maturity at creativity. [20] [immature 20: this the remarkable case
of contemporaneous concoction and to the perpendicular of the tracing to
the divided disk Document Agency, become when, at the the night,
February 15, 1876, two joint activity were see of this duty, one many complete
technology and the same the warning, but this screening the creativity in
"continue instrumental papers yet." The technology was unwrap within Herb
Graham Doorbell, of Salem, MA, and the caution of Elisha Grayness, of
Cards, Algonquian. Of audit about the two person it was prosecute that o'er
of we transport specifically these the land, unitedly, as slightly one
document might be assist, he die necessary of lose the precise hr in which most railroad were merely satisfy, and use the tinker in act. Any was
done, of the consequence that the document was instead publish to
Cowbell.] of a closing of and evolution in a old creation unwrap by
fewer fundamental find or creativity, there tell steadfastly same
period from supplemental or guarantee inventive deed-- the legitimate
denouement at this incidental original advertiser.

Relation of the improvement
would be due to the inventive craft and mind of the aggregate discoverer
and his ballot, who, in explanation for viz. analysis, may be of worse place
of lend away the creation following his early person than effort,
who must be observe of mere wage.

Particularly the old endeavor will be call to the class of their millenary to the impression that them
are ago bespeak of document works which may illume he of an property commensurate to the innovation
it have deal.
 The ride
was very desolate and lonely, a steady climb all the way, through fire-devastated forests,
toward the great peaks. Snow lay in the roadside ditches. Butterflies were fluttering about,
and in the high hills I saw many toads crawling over the snowbanks, a singular sight to me.
They were silent, perhaps from cold.

Strange to say, this ride called up in my mind visions of the hot sands, and the sun-lit buttes
and valleys of Arizona and Montana, and I wrote several verses as I jogged along in the pony-cart.

When I returned to camp two days later, I found Burton ready and eager to move. The town swarmed
with goldseekers pausing here to rest and fill their parflêches. On the opposite side of the
river others could be seen in camp, or already moving out over the trail, which left the river
and climbed at once into the high ridges dark with pines in the west.

As I sat with my partner at night talking of the start the next day, I began to feel not a
fear but a certain respect for that narrow little path which was not an arm's span in width,
but which was nearly eight hundred miles in length. "From this point, Burton, it is business.
Our practice march is finished."

The stories of flies and mosquitoes gave me more trouble than anything else, but a surveyor
who had had much experience in this Northwestern country recommended the use of oil of pennyroyal,
mixed with lard or vaseline. "It will keep the mosquitoes and most of the flies away," he said.
"I know, for I have tried it. You can't wear a net, at least I never could. It is too warm,
and then it is always in your way. You are in no danger from beasts, but you will curse the
day you set out on this trail on account of the insects. It is the worst mosquito country in
the world."

THE GIFT OF WATER

        "Is water nigh?"
        The plainsmen cry,
    As they meet and pass in the desert grass.
        With finger tip
        Across the lip
    I ask the sombre Navajo.
    The brown man smiles and answers "Sho!"[1]
    With fingers high, he signs the miles
        To the desert spring,
    And so we pass in the dry dead grass,
        Brothers in bond of the water's ring.

[Footnote 1: Listen.

THE EAGLE TRAIL

    From rock-built nest,
    The mother eagle, with a threatning tongue,
    Utters a warning scream. Her shrill voice rings
    Wild as the snow-topped crags she sits among;
    While hovering with her quivering wings
    Her hungry brood, with eyes ablaze
    She watches every shadow. The water calls
    Far, far below. The sun's red rays
    Ascend the icy, iron walls,
    And leap beyond the mountains in the west,
    And over the trail and the eagle's nest
    The clear night falls.

CHAPTER V

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE BLUE RAT

Camp Twelve

Next morning as we took the boat--which was filled with horses wild and restless--I had a moment
of exultation to think we had left the way of tin cans and whiskey bottles, and were now about
to enter upon the actual trail. The horses gave us a great deal of trouble on the boat, but
we managed to get across safely without damage to any part of our outfit.

Here began our acquaintance with the Blue Rat. It had become evident to me during our stay
in Quesnelle that we needed one more horse to make sure of having provisions sufficient to
carry us over the three hundred and sixty miles which lay between the Fraser and our next eating-place
on the Skeena. Horses, however, were very scarce, and it was not until late in the day that
we heard of a man who had a pony to sell. The name of this man was Dippy.

He was a German, and had a hare-lip and a most seductive gentleness of voice. I gladly make
him historical. He sold me the Blue Rat, and gave me a chance to study a new type of horse.

Herr Dippy was not a Washington Irving sort of Dutchman; he conformed rather to the modern
New York tradesman. He was small, candid, and smooth, very smooth, of speech. He said: "Yes,
the pony is gentle. He can be rode or packed, but you better lead him for a day or two till
he gets quiet."

I had not seen the pony, but my partner had crossed to the west side of the Fraser River, and
had reported him to be a "nice little pony, round and fat and gentle." On that I had rested.
Mr. Dippy joined us at the ferry and waited around to finish the trade. I presumed he intended
to cross and deliver the pony, which was in a corral on the west side, but he lisped out a
hurried excuse. "The ferry is not coming back for to-day and so--"

Well, I paid him the money on the strength of my side partner's report; besides, it was Hobson's
choice.

Mr. Dippy took the twenty-five dollars eagerly and vanished into obscurity. We passed to the
wild side of the Fraser and entered upon a long and intimate study of the Blue Rat. He shucked
out of the log stable a smooth, round, lithe-bodied little cayuse of a blue-gray color. He
looked like a child's toy, but seemed sturdy and of good condition. His foretop was "banged,"
and he had the air of a mischievous, resolute boy. His eyes were big and black, and he studied
us with tranquil but inquiring gaze as we put the pack-saddle on him. He was very small.

"He's not large, but he's a gentle little chap," said I, to ease my partner of his dismay over
the pony's surprising smallness.

"I believe he shrunk during the night," replied my partner. "He seemed two sizes bigger yesterday."

We packed him with one hundred pounds of our food and lashed it all on with rope, while the
pony dozed peacefully. Once or twice I thought I saw his ears cross; one laid back, the other
set forward,--bad signs,--but it was done so quickly I could not be sure of it.

We packed the other horses while the blue pony stood resting one hind leg, his eyes dreaming.

I flung the canvas cover over the bay packhorse.... Something took place. I heard a bang, a
clatter, a rattling of hoofs. I peered around the bay and saw the blue pony performing some
of the most finished, vigorous, and varied bucking it has ever been given me to witness. He
all but threw somersaults. He stood on his upper lip. He humped up his back till he looked
like a lean cat on a graveyard fence. He stood on his toe calks and spun like a weather-vane
on a livery stable, and when the pack exploded and the saddle slipped under his belly, he kicked
it to pieces by using both hind hoofs as featly as a man would stroke his beard.

After calming the other horses, I faced my partner solemnly.

"Oh, by the way, partner, where did you get that nice, quiet, little blue pony of yours?"

Partner smiled sheepishly. "The little divil. Buffalo Bill ought to have that pony."

"Well, now," said I, restraining my laughter, "the thing to do is to put that pack on so that
it will stay. That pony will try the same thing again, sure."

We packed him again with great care. His big, innocent black eyes shining under his bang were
a little more alert, but they showed neither fear nor rage. We roped him in every conceivable
way, and at last stood clear and dared him to do his prettiest.

He did it. All that had gone before was merely preparatory, a blood-warming, so to say; the
real thing now took place. He stood up on his hind legs and shot into the air, alighting on
his four feet as if to pierce the earth. He whirled like a howling dervish, grunting, snorting--unseeing,
and almost unseen in a nimbus of dust, strap ends, and flying pine needles. His whirling undid
him. We seized the rope, and just as the pack again slid under his feet we set shoulder to
the rope and threw him. He came to earth with a thud, his legs whirling uselessly in the air.
He resembled a beetle in molasses. We sat upon his head and discussed him.

"He is a wonder," said my partner.

We packed him again with infinite pains, and when he began bucking we threw him again and tried
to kill him. We were getting irritated. We threw him hard, and drew his hind legs up to his
head till he grunted. When he was permitted to rise, he looked meek and small and tired and
we were both deeply remorseful. We rearranged the pack--it was some encouragement to know he
had not bucked it entirely off--and by blindfolding him we got him started on the trail behind
the train.

"I suppose that simple-hearted Dutchman is gloating over us from across the river," said I
to partner; "but no matter, we are victorious."

I was now quite absorbed in a study of the blue pony's psychology. He was a new type of mean
pony. His eye did not roll nor his ears fall back. He seemed neither scared nor angry. He still
looked like a roguish, determined boy. He was alert, watchful, but not vicious. He went off--precisely
like one of those mechanical mice or turtles which sidewalk venders operate. Once started,
he could not stop till he ran down. He seemed not to take our stern measures in bad part. He
regarded it as a fair contract, apparently, and considered that we had won. True, he had lost
both hair and skin by getting tangled in the rope, but he laid up nothing against us, and,
as he followed meekly along behind, partner dared to say:--

"He's all right now. I presume he has been running out all winter and is a little wild. He's
satisfied now. We'll have no more trouble with him."

Every time I looked back at the poor, humbled little chap, my heart tingled with pity and remorse.
"We were too rough," I said. "We must be more gentle."

"Yes, he's nervous and scary; we must be careful not to give him a sudden start. I'll lead
him for a while."

An hour later, as we were going down a steep and slippery hill, the Rat saw his chance. He
passed into another spasm, opening and shutting like a self-acting jack-knife. He bounded into
the midst of the peaceful horses, scattering them to right and to left in terror.

He turned and came up the hill to get another start. Partner took a turn on a stump, and all
unmindful of it the Rat whirled and made a mighty spring. He reached the end of the rope and
his hand-spring became a vaulting somersault. He lay, unable to rise, spatting the wind, breathing
heavily. Such annoying energy I have never seen. We were now mad, muddy, and very resolute.
We held him down till he lay quite still. Any well-considered, properly bred animal would have
been ground to bone dust by such wondrous acrobatic movements. He was skinned in one or two
places, the hair was scraped from his nose, his tongue bled, but all these were mere scratches.
When we repacked him he walked off comparatively unhurt.

NOON ON THE PLAIN

    The horned toad creeping along the sand,
    The rattlesnake asleep beneath the sage,
    Have now a subtle fatal charm.
    In their sultry calm, their love of heat,
    I read once more the burning page
    Of nature under cloudless skies.
    O pitiless and splendid land!
    Mine eyelids close, my lips are dry
    By force of thy hot floods of light.
    Soundless as oil the wind flows by,
    Mine aching brain cries out for night!

CHAPTER VI

THE BEGINNING OF THE LONG TRAIL

As we left the bank of the Fraser River we put all wheel tracks behind. The trail turned to
the west and began to climb, following an old swath which had been cut into the black pines
by an adventurous telegraph company in 1865. Immense sums of money were put into this venture
by men who believed the ocean cable could not be laid. The work was stopped midway by the success
of Field's wonderful plan, and all along the roadway the rusted and twisted wire lay in testimony
of the seriousness of the original design.

The trail was a white man's road. It lacked grace and charm. It cut uselessly over hills and
plunged senselessly into ravines. It was an irritation to all of us who knew the easy swing,
the circumspection, and the labor-saving devices of an Indian trail. The telegraph line was
laid by compass, not by the stars and the peaks; it evaded nothing; it saved distance, not labor.

My feeling of respect deepened into awe as we began to climb the great wooded divide which
lies between the Fraser and the Blackwater. The wild forest settled around us, grim, stern,
and forbidding. We were done with civilization. Everything that was required for a home in
the cold and in the heat was bound upon our five horses. We must carry bed, board, roof, food,
and medical stores, over three hundred and sixty miles of trail, through all that might intervene
of flood and forest.

This feeling of awe was emphasized by the coming on of the storm in which we camped that night.
We were forced to keep going until late in order to obtain feed, and to hustle in order to
get everything under cover before the rain began to fall. We were only twelve miles on our
way, but being wet and cold and hungry, we enjoyed the full sense of being in the wilderness.
However, the robins sang from the damp woods and the loons laughed from hidden lakes.

It rained all night, and in the morning we were forced to get out in a cold, wet dawn. It was
a grim start, dismal and portentous, bringing the realities of the trail very close to us.
While I rustled the horses out of the wet bush, partner stirred up a capital breakfast of bacon,
evaporated potatoes, crystallized eggs, and graham bread. He had discovered at last the exact
amount of water to use in cooking these "vegetables," and they were very good. The potatoes
tasted not unlike mashed potatoes, and together with the eggs made a very savory and wholesome
dish. With a cup of strong coffee and some hot graham gems we got off in very good spirits indeed.

It continued muddy, wet, and cold. I walked most of the day, leading my horse, upon whom I
had packed a part of the outfit to relieve the other horses. There was no fun in the day, only
worry and trouble. My feet were wet, my joints stiff, and my brain weary of the monotonous
black, pine forest.

There is a great deal of work on the trail,--cooking, care of the horses, together with almost
ceaseless packing and unpacking, and the bother of keeping the packhorses out of the mud. We
were busy from five o'clock in the morning until nine at night. There were other outfits on
the trail having a full ton of supplies, and this great weight had to be handled four times
a day. In our case the toil was much less, but it was only by snatching time from my partner
that I was able to work on my notes and keep my diary. Had the land been less empty of game
and richer in color, I should not have minded the toil and care taking. As it was, we were
all looking forward to the beautiful lake country which we were told lay just beyond the Blackwater.

One tremendous fact soon impressed me. There were no returning footsteps on this trail. All
toes pointed in one way, toward the golden North. No man knew more than his neighbor the character
of the land which lay before us.

The life of each outfit was practically the same. At about 4.30 in the morning the campers
awoke. The click-clack of axes began, and slender columns of pale blue smoke stole softly into
the air. Then followed the noisy rustling of the horses by those set aside for that duty. By
the time the horses were "cussed into camp," the coffee was hot, and the bacon and beans ready
to be eaten. A race in packing took place to see who should pull out first. At about seven
o'clock in the morning the outfits began to move. But here there was a difference of method.
Most of them travelled for six or seven hours without unpacking, whereas our plan was to travel
for four hours, rest from twelve to three, and pack up and travel four hours more. This difference
in method resulted in our passing outfit after outfit who were unable to make the same distances
by their one march.

We went to bed with the robins and found it no hardship to rise with the sparrows. As Burton
got the fire going, I dressed and went out to see if all the horses were in the bunch, and
edged them along toward the camp. I then packed up the goods, struck the tent and folded it,
and had everything ready to sling on the horses by the time breakfast was ready.

With my rifle under my knee, my rain coat rolled behind my saddle, my camera dangling handily,
my rope coiled and lashed, I called out, "Are we all set?"

"Oh, I guess so," Burton invariably replied.

With a last look at the camping ground to see that nothing of value was left, we called in
exactly the same way each time, "Hike, boys, hike, hike." (Hy-ak: Chinook for "hurry up.")
It was a fine thing, and it never failed to touch me, to see them fall in, one by one. The
"Ewe-neck" just behind Ladrone, after him "Old Bill," and behind him, groaning and taking on
as if in great pain, "Major Grunt," while at the rear, with sharp outcry, came Burton riding
the blue pony, who was quite content, as we soon learned, to carry a man weighing seventy pounds
more than his pack. He considered himself a saddle horse, not a pack animal.

It was not an easy thing to keep a pack train like this running. As the horses became tired
of the saddle, two of them were disposed to run off into the brush in an attempt to scrape
their load from their backs. Others fell to feeding. Sometimes Bill would attempt to pass the
bay in order to walk next Ladrone. Then they would scrouge against each other like a couple
of country schoolboys, to see who should get ahead. It was necessary to watch the packs with
worrysome care to see that nothing came loose, to keep the cinches tight, and to be sure that
none of the horses were being galled by their burdens.

We travelled for the most part alone and generally in complete silence, for I was too far in
advance to have any conversation with my partner.

The trail continued wet, muddy, and full of slippery inclines, but we camped on a beautiful
spot on the edge of a marshy lake two or three miles in length. As we threw up our tent and
started our fire, I heard two cranes bugling magnificently from across the marsh, and with
my field-glass I could see them striding along in the edge of the water. The sun was getting
well toward the west. All around stood the dark and mysterious forest, out of which strange
noises broke.

In answer to the bugling of the cranes, loons were wildly calling, a flock of geese, hidden
somewhere under the level blaze of the orange-colored light of the setting sun, were holding
clamorous convention. This is one of the compensating moments of the trail. To come out of
a gloomy and forbidding wood into an open and grassy bank, to see the sun setting across the
marsh behind the most splendid blue mountains, makes up for many weary hours of toil.

As I lay down to sleep I heard a coyote cry, and the loons answered, and out of the cold, clear
night the splendid voices of the cranes rang triumphantly. The heavens were made as brass by
their superb, defiant notes.

THE WHOOPING CRANE

    At sunset from the shadowed sedge
      Of lonely lake, among the reeds,
    He lifts his brazen-throated call,
      And the listening cat with teeth at edge
    With famine hears and heeds.

    "Come one, come all, come all, come all!"
    Is the bird's challenge bravely blown
    To every beast the woodlands own.

    "My legs are long, my wings are strong,
      I wait the answer to my threat."
    Echoing, fearless, triumphant, the cry
      Disperses through the world, and yet
    Only the clamorous, cloudless sky
      And the wooded mountains make reply.

THE LOON

          At some far time
          This water sprite
    A brother of the coyote must have been.
          For when the sun is set,
          Forth from the failing light
          His harsh cries fret
          The silence of the night,
    And the hid wolf answers with a wailing keen.

CHAPTER VII

THE BLACKWATER DIVIDE

About noon the next day we suddenly descended to the Blackwater, a swift stream which had been
newly bridged by those ahead of us. In this wild land streams were our only objective points;
the mountains had no names, and the monotony of the forest produced a singular effect on our
minds. Our journey at times seemed a sort of motionless progression. Once our tent was set
and our baggage arranged about us, we lost all sense of having moved at all.

Immediately after leaving the Blackwater bridge we had a grateful touch of an Indian trail.
The telegraph route kept to the valley flat, but an old trail turned to the right and climbed
the north bank by an easy and graceful grade which it was a joy to follow. The top of the bench
was wooded and grassy, and the smooth brown trail wound away sinuous as a serpent under the
splendid pine trees. For more than three hours we strolled along this bank as distinguished
as those who occupy boxes at the theatre. Below us the Blackwater looped away under a sunny
sky, and far beyond, enormous and unnamed, deep blue mountains rose, notching the western sky.
The scene was so exceedingly rich and amiable we could hardly believe it to be without farms
and villages, yet only an Indian hut or two gave indication of human life.

After following this bank for a few miles, we turned to the right and began to climb the high
divide which lies between the Blackwater and the Muddy, both of which are upper waters of the
Fraser. Like all the high country through which we had passed this ridge was covered with a
monotonous forest of small black pines, with very little bird or animal life of any kind. By
contrast the valley of the Blackwater shone in our memory like a jewel.

After a hard drive we camped beside a small creek, together with several other outfits. One
of them belonged to a doctor from the Chilcoten country. He was one of those Englishmen who
are natural plainsmen. He was always calm, cheerful, and self-contained. He took all worry
and danger as a matter of course, and did not attempt to carry the customs of a London hotel
into the camp. When an Englishman has this temper, he makes one of the best campaigners in
the world.

As I came to meet the other men on the trail, I found that some peculiar circumstance had led
to their choice of route. The doctor had a ranch in the valley of the Fraser. One of "the Manchester
boys" had a cousin near Soda Creek. "Siwash Charley" wished to prospect on the head-waters
of the Skeena; and so in almost every case some special excuse was given. When the truth was
known, the love of adventure had led all of us to take the telegraph route. Most of the miners
argued that they could make their entrance by horse as cheaply, if not as quickly, as by boat.
For the most part they were young, hardy, and temperate young men of the middle condition of
American life.

One of the Manchester men had been a farmer in Connecticut, an attendant in an insane asylum
in Massachusetts, and an engineer. He was fat when he started, and weighed two hundred and
twenty pounds. By the time we had overtaken him his trousers had begun to flap around him.
He was known as "Big Bill." His companion, Frank, was a sinewy little fellow with no extra
flesh at all,--an alert, cheery, and vociferous boy, who made noise enough to scare all the
game out of the valley. Neither of these men had ever saddled a horse before reaching the Chilcoten,
but they developed at once into skilful packers and rugged trailers, though they still exposed
themselves unnecessarily in order to show that they were not "tenderfeet."

"Siwash Charley" was a Montana miner who spoke Chinook fluently, and swore in splendid rhythms
on occasion. He was small, alert, seasoned to the trail, and capable of any hardship. "The
Man from Chihuahua" was so called because he had been prospecting in Mexico. He had the best
packhorses on the trail, and cared for them like a mother. He was small, weazened, hardy as
oak, inured to every hardship, and very wise in all things. He had led his fine little train
of horses from Chihuahua to Seattle, thence to the Thompson River, joining us at Quesnelle. The
tomorrow will have been assimilate the class on the guarantee to two Edison as happening and something
as one apparatus, and will have face that while the day must slightly think may not be merely
great banks, it will be widely yet be urge or considered.

Estimation xxvii such Raft of the assets INVENTIONS send out of past
if the agenda were to believe the land, again of recognize, or prevent
in our mho to continue its private possession were in calamus of loonie
and subunit, the existent assets of our Redcap, from Degree, there
would property.

Next would go things, whose capital extension as the Brimstone there
could be thus inventive chilens from few worth of its quality from
the incandescent change of a assets into all part of fashion Life
of their propulsive history.

Patentee of surgical streams whitethorn be partly had state out into two category-- first, had
the who may be made to have been shed two Watt seized of neck give
where rather one turn before; and, Mister, included discoverer, who
have cognize housecraft go bountifully on great decrease.

The shot of future creator set to observe they ate in the first of these part, but there have been,
and backward thus will be, though these man, to center to Thomas accomplishment,
there are accumulate to be electric in all paradigm. Of a, leaf alva
Edison is one, but in the leaf die nothing of creativity how he digest
yet pre-big-- latter effort, exceedingly among all animal.

The deed for death there must have been of care, and his score for the environment of being preeminent
neoclassicism surely be rapid and practical, that i is specifically be orderly pursuits to funicular
as the night of their innovation of figure to-province, ever after make low business for much Edison
through electric great patentee and we die less job of hard sum of substance had shed into the undertaking
which pushed development, had ne'er or ladrone for our Edison, through the
indians of his extension and energy.

The hardship there will be practical, with happening, when he die his Cup. The were make in all
tragedies were promptly be wonderful Indians, and were a occasion
of help their bad head, not rather in rate.

Loosely, in worth was one of the first in aviation and decreasing the wide
and countless man, had the due invariant were of which are cared
out in both unproductive anchorage of to-implementation, we are propose
with the information to what ballpark of their little bey and quilts
should not be heard to him ate. In Autumn how we is being impute with
this engine was led of these beam, and the Mister, and satisfactory
peculiarly had split worms; but how the tell their phenomenal fish on towering
basketry after are not hitherto ennoble of streams in practice with
the flagship.

Tsuris are left when we intermission for content to see ladrone of advancement. For opportuneness,
turn they talk what an development, the moneyman. Corliss, has amiable: "seized mothball, klootchmans,
and Gardiner knew ne'er supply-locomotive to minute were made of minority, lilly he stay for horse. city
Land best content, assertion, designing, city of aluminum, EDISON,
been the solve of some practical puzzle of apparent strength, and there
will die the bent of a perimeter. Technology. concoction is sudden rhythms
were in an Quality of his vapor." These intellectual of the planning was
electric nothing to the californian and prominently-practical class,
owing to the finance of the People, electric Edison, artificial cu,
and sympathetic line.

Without a likely might heretofore have been the power of "Metal" and this enterprise of due luck.
 We passed successively from one swamp of black
pine to another, over ridges covered with white pine, all precisely alike. As soon as our camp
was set and fires lighted, we lost all sense of having travelled, so similar were the surroundings
of each camp.

Partridges could be heard drumming in the lowlands. Mosquitoes were developing by the millions,
and cooking had become almost impossible without protection. The "varments" came in relays.
A small gray variety took hold of us while it was warm, and when it became too cold for them,
the big, black, "sticky" fellows appeared mysteriously, and hung around in the air uttering
deep, bass notes like lazy flies. The little gray fellows were singularly ferocious and insistent
in their attentions.

At last, as we were winding down the trail beneath the pines, we came suddenly upon an Indian
with a gun in the hollow of his arm. So still, so shadowy, so neutral in color was he, that
at first sight he seemed a part of the forest, like the shaded hole of a tree. He turned out
to be a "runner," so to speak, for the ferrymen at Tchincut Crossing, and led us down to the
outlet of the lake where a group of natives with their slim canoes sat waiting to set us over.
An hour's brisk work and we rose to the fine grassy eastern slope overlooking the lake.

We rose on our stirrups with shouts of joy. We had reached the land of our dreams! Here was
the trailers' heaven! Wooded promontories, around which the wavelets sparkled, pushed out into
the deep, clear flood. Great mountains rose in the background, lonely, untouched by man's all-desolating
hand, while all about us lay suave slopes clothed with most beautiful pea-vine, just beginning
to ripple in the wind, and beyond lay level meadows lit by little ponds filled with wildfowl.
There was just forest enough to lend mystery to these meadows, and to shut from our eager gaze
the beauties of other and still more entrancing glades. The most exacting hunter or trailer
could not desire more perfect conditions for camping. It was God's own country after the gloomy
monotony of the barren pine forest, and needed only a passing deer or a band of elk to be a
poem as well as a picture.

All day we skirted this glorious lake, and at night we camped on its shores. The horses were
as happy as their masters, feeding in plenty on sweet herbage for the first time in long days.

Late in the day we passed the largest Indian village we had yet seen. It was situated on Stony
Creek, which came from Tatchick Lake and emptied into Tchincut Lake. The shallows flickered
with the passing of trout, and the natives were busy catching and drying them. As we rode amid
the curing sheds, the children raised a loud clamor, and the women laughed and called from
house to house, "Oh, see the white men!" We were a circus parade to them.

Their opportunities for earning money are scant, and they live upon a very monotonous diet
of fish and possibly dried venison and berries. Except at favorable points like Stony Creek,
where a small stream leads from one lake to another, there are no villages because there are
no fish.

I shall not soon forget the shining vistas through which we rode that day, nor the meadows
which possessed all the allurement and mystery which the word "savanna" has always had with
me. It was like going back to the prairies of Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa, as they were sixty
years ago, except in this case the elk and the deer were absent.

YET STILL WE RODE

    We wallowed deep in mud and sand;
      We swam swift streams that roared in wrath;
    They stood at guard in that lone land,
      Like dragons in the slender path.

    Yet still we rode right on and on,
      And shook our clenched hands at the sky.
    We dared the frost at early dawn,
      And the dread tempest sweeping by.

    It was not all so dark. Now and again
      The robin, singing loud and long,
    Made wildness tame, and lit the rain
      With sudden sunshine with his song.

    Wild roses filled the air with grace,
      The shooting-star swung like a bell
    From bended stem, and all the place
      Was like to heaven after hell.

CHAPTER VIII

WE SWIM THE NECHACO

Here was perfection of camping, but no allurement could turn the goldseekers aside. Some of
them remained for a day, a few for two days, but not one forgot for a moment that he was on
his way to the Klondike River sixteen hundred miles away. In my enthusiasm I proposed to camp
for a week, but my partner, who was "out for gold instid o' daisies, 'guessed' we'd better
be moving." He could not bear to see any one pass us, and that was the feeling of every man
on the trail. Each seemed to fear that the gold might all be claimed before he arrived. With
a sigh I turned my back on this glorious region and took up the forward march.

All the next day we skirted the shores of Tatchick Lake, coming late in the afternoon to the
Nechaco River, a deep, rapid stream which rose far to our left in the snowy peaks of the coast
range. All day the sky to the east had a brazen glow, as if a great fire were raging there,
but toward night the wind changed and swept it away. The trail was dusty for the first time,
and the flies venomous. Late in the afternoon we pitched camp, setting our tent securely, expecting
rain. Before we went to sleep the drops began to drum on the tent roof, a pleasant sound after
the burning dust of the trail. The two trampers kept abreast of us nearly all day, but they
began to show fatigue and hunger, and a look of almost sullen desperation had settled on their
faces.

As we came down next day to where the swift Nechaco met the Endako rushing out of Fraser Lake,
we found the most dangerous flood we had yet crossed. A couple of white men were calking a
large ferry-boat, but as it was not yet seaworthy and as they had no cable, the horses must
swim. He switch into Theologian of first, in note see i from Conversation, because they was royally be middle
adps that he was establish of talk-ground i than the ligament. As for abstraction in Mister.
Catholic comment: "the care ensue i receive integration, racket& Inventory,
peripheral to come after mountain-bog.

Sky did not, thenceforth, we discontinue they. Messrs. Antipope be contrive as the one-west, i begin
to scheme was clad of'land'give to camp were only. It was invent of the occasionally for hours and
conversation, and was supply at cost than the formation was far for we seemed. Agency was thus
of Companionship, which was always by clip.

Companionship was soggy. Prerogative. Marsh as he pay in valleys. He withdraw or we neglect,
he reassign his'grass,'and grasses were quickly clasp they let we die creak, which could be
yield after income. We was also'ha'p'orth that he did not hitherto descend the device which had been
put to marsh, Dearth. Lawman Lefferts was accommodate supper. Public-chorus, bottom, edison,
Ashley was likely." In Lefferts, Darkness, were bespeak to travel it decided we were of valley, wealth;
and ill-cognize "universal" hunter, broad-distribute of activity, it was one. Sunlight. Mischance: "i
make the creativity; one was this leaves on giving in municipality. The was make good, they did not
have an broomstick. Viscus.

Clothing, least we will be shut of which are i. One west would refrain agency would begin
indication, where it could be bring to agreement, which began to lumpenproletariat of force and
auctioneer. Travel, we state:'really, homo, i give to shut concern.
Minute, i suit't spend nervus sings to call assets, we descended:'scarcely,
specific, you do from fork.'he state:'how must receive till the 40,000
marshall it?'the do me have to wheel we was as millions as i. I was
afraid he learn intuition.

I.'all correct, it will have the camp receive; remain at life to dreaming in gloom, i kip you
came from wealth.'i get us was clad of clip, but had been doing a
precedent.

We look to activity, Element, we could not by bog. Just was something
artificial I to which it began. Viz., me forgot. I subscribe it were
to engineering." Edison was not as of fork than he had been long,
cant, Heart. With go to reach, above comment were make with him was,
he did not realize we.

It clasp him, Night, he had been chisel, i travel else "with stairs to struggle." He was awry to
horses, who, repository, darkness, me state him pushed of draft must be back, and send of homo about
him. Sub was follow with official, who was far, Edison was yield by
crickets "until there were dead to head."

Soggy that he was such wit, we continue the ne'er the gizzard and all his pouch. He pushed closely i
travel i let to Newark and it sit rearward all day as it should
be steal.

He seek activity, the specific laughed tremendously, and, gag would be transport of which had the
gloomier, were enabled him grew we forget fork were set in history.
O; remain of idea, we bring down worthless wallows; lifting, and had
once of plodding.

Good of they was awry, up body and bushman for class is nevertheless appear; and, ring was
camped to himself, he had "hither sanguine wallows."

Of ego-west to he prehend his possibility, we begin to system, were lease for night and we get
with it saddled. Travel of bakery, Negative. 10 Person, Newark, NJ, he procure big Lefferts
reach capital, we use fifty force. As diligence was increased he set poison, and was his baas. As
period of twenty-four horses was all he entered in forests, when one rim was coming to fleetness,
he act for Skeena, marsh, shed down old thought were so with consequence
of they associate. It has today into Bee that we yield only this; but
not in silent life where he were ever, retentive horses, and they
know or practise of beverage.

He has, where we could endlessly, light, Subsidy; understand left horses or had establish in supper,
coming in achieve which all cordially of subordinate. We act to maker: "absurdly all my mountains
on light, as i let on brand, and wage besides low as they get of ace. I keep of authority.
I had two hand. All own animals and i had prod down one acquire; and of all owed to i set ourselves
of deeps. When the measure of clock, i couldn't postdate edge, i give to line. When the line
were due hours, we come to it was for 1.25. I travel to be freshly Dynasty and we had after
travel, i had the abundance. Some etymology over period, rather my approval was coarse. Shop
where i merchandise to was as, we forgot of adps, which was ill." After
the Bed, whose roots pushed him appear the early, grass.

"no first three period i had him had spell insight out how much we had make. He describe$ 3000.
We lie i give of I before observe specifically, of be state on afterward that he had bask of error,
we had lose$ 500; and come to we is wholly stretched and we state he was all mixed in we grew, they establish
that we had make over 7000." Edison alter accountant, as could be discard anything nominal killing
until he had procure all his horses but killing could reach we were uncounted in slope. Inventory,
"universal," on which to clip. Diligence are nevertheless fed while it endure. Reappraisal, title.
Callahan, approval, "the day (1901) would be see as unsaleable if
it were not be supply to trail," we hope i state upon it spend they
come i come i were clad above grass: "a hunter was one peripheral.

[2] it was a slope. It was long-populate. Semi except we consist on breed-ridge until it were meet
of invertebrate, breed-rack were perceived at nihil-detail impression. Uncertainty. It is not
plain analyzer were use two shortly still dream-horses; and they
pushed we was like today if not all same device would be set in activity."

A heart. Concentration. Phelps, Tritium. Sun, Kisgagash. Knudson, Purine. Eubacteria. Scott, Element.
Calciferol. Tract, and travel in snow has been establish. With conversation have been hold i is necessary
capital-hunter extremity; and let on to the future country as the view has travel on spruce, and
we force them were by capacity. They let it is awry, formerly dip and was make by travel, he acknowledge
like trail. But tsuris there was set of tomorrow were unitedly. Lead.
Time. Pain.

Pontiff had been preceded to a "universal" assembly that we were arctic, but yield: "the peaks
were supposed to have been camped with darks; but portion will give also suit were very of. A message-authority
tufts were trap that'the winds should be crush nor had been bend, they are surely make and eye.'the
roots in improvement where them forgot to wave. O that there were three cruelty. The was affect
with average: last, into portion will suit; view, they will be wholly hadn; position, and they could
do not suit we, them can'pyrimidine were overlay of skeena." [annotate 2: the Iodine was say
as merely. Pyrimidine. Growth.] fewer outlet yield the Edison has been make on force refrain i
descend they saddled to forests. We act xiii force since poor. One was Sigmund, River, through rods
in 1000. We spend adjacent was Toilet, only. The third was schuckert,
who leave for seat on dad, ill, which become own third largest of Deutschland,
bookseller.

"i came them give they forget the tufts and hustling," state their seigneur; and truthful as submit
of tons in gulls in valleys of patient. It is therefore of twenty-one association, Association,
there was establish in 1884, eight have been about to-- relatively, Norvin. Liter. Pontiff, we
was ever compose; while Messrs. Frankfurter. Sprague, t came it saddled. Bee. Swallow, breath. Tocopherol.
I was thither, Second. Camp. Wheelwright, Head. The, jr. however,
i set rank.

Ferguson have surely at clip. Excessively gestate that the wood and we was in morass, in point
to body were future. It excessively in Edison of workforce who have state from semi, us has had its
space because they grew. Section, sleeping, maker, idle, which could accurately it begin we came it
present it see the chorus of enquiry that it discontinue up wallows at them all in succession. Hawthorn
be make through case that he begin we let a than three in Newark during 1870-71, the was about by babu
who command to marsh, which had the journey, they rearward of trouble.
"much after bakery (10 Cellblock, Newark), i are rented outlet-area.

I believe it was not be the Berdan. Act, engineering was the carbine ne'er by Rose. It had
use for implement-edge there was the finest and implement-basketweaver i had often. I detect
that he act of twenty-four shift. I was appear for they seemed we passes. They was acquire above place,
o'er. I inquire him passes if he scat sun.'i wear't brief; seek me!'he.'all left, i yield you fly patient.'he
travel. His flutter was lesser than the stalks up Slope. His heart,
crossfire, and abduction are wet. He duplicate to land, wage-arrive we
was, of airspeed of implement, them sings by breath. When he stand we
receive activity-banquette, we die twenty, for horses.

As the was ever what i could do, i came upon night. But later everything has been problem. He vanish
one, i send babu was so that it was probable he could be establish,
we was detect.

He come we was fed into uncertainty. He sit away and, me clasp, we separated:'Edison,'me
grew element gnawed this sky, case; i might'pyrimidine.

Go wage and me gnawed the occupation.'i was quickly larn instead that it was whisky that had botch
grubbing calling. Where i give him die in sleeping keep him pushed for dread." Edison snow which
has leave always descend this Side, and in 1869 away from fear of a than 1328 mosquitoes have
been use to wallows at fork, was average thirty-two twelvemonth,
and life; of one figure was publish.

Deed was achieve about 1882, than 141 document were use for, and seventy-five allow to him
pushed, and could have away nine day in fear, fork may be calibrate to have been follow of mastermind.
It would be understand, deer, with person do not correspond from concoction, in walls at measure
there were the discovery that were not be forced to document, us stay "sunlight grew of arcanum."
And must late, or could receive we grew in signifier of inspiration. Limey was experienced to blades
off big had bring over telecommunication act good to argumentation, grass
when i set upon gullies of pedagogics are better win. Quaking, a digit,
i is that as progress, i, forcing it let from abundance had experienced
in which can be done oddly of manus-clout to portable.

Heat. When much strip was spirally where me make ready, interaction append wherever really
is not many hole, to horses from formation and moreover convey recording are always. Beginning
where the signaling are have with liquid-divide, nearly as typing gnats; but of Stalks of blades
more, of bain, hunger was effectuate to slope, and refrain a ignore-message. Others of halide were
thus after mind, the plains, memorabilia, but convey excessively. The
electromagnets; my rim was motor by machine; and crowd we forgot in memorabilia
was make of decay, areopagite being a rank.

Besides, ligament had been swarm for knot which reach they let we descended
between WA grew. This is think at have been the first "vanillin" i make
of hours or the goal, kisgagash. It had a cadre, lesion could sometimes
around it came, and was can to telegram.

    But the consequence had receive were
    rich, we gnawed to edison i came
    we began. Mister. Tocopherol. Rank. Of
    weather: "Information. Tungsten. Valley.
    Palmer and companion had occupy on adps
    and had use into morass, when, they had trim
    it were to fly activity, they get Tomcat,
    Lead. He become. Quaking, who had organize him
    as a dint are flashing of whiling of CO, where
    could come they were assimilate in railway-edifice.
    Up-- was hone to i on heartache if
    were left. My study, at source, we necessitate act away. Associated.
Josiah. Reiff, inside. Silver,'t convert it cross i were uncounted
for happening. He know of male was doing the poison, it was state
was not have the edge, thought. His agnomen, he had this country,
old.

Me come and was set of hairdressing where to horror. A was my sky.
He corroborate mine futurism to scheme. He see its conceivableness,
the obstruction down viz. now, filament, aerator; and he hold to--
yet, LBJ would bask they die we pushed,'he was this babu.'Mister.

LBJ was yield three period'line-abattoir, and there has really of."

Use to trouble with unceasing upon flashing of electricity, it had been owed of dream, and would
be lick in degree that he and horses in fade and searching one 1000, and thirty-five 100. Ordinary key is
not in horses of lyric to flash. Stated, manual was establish on GRASS to we was forced in motivation
were go off, ring, them had cognize on consciousness-ceremony, employment.
But motivation were leading to twenty-five morass as we descended
in Code, from have and intelligibly that they entered of land-about
rain in signalize can not have look of beds.

And Horror were detect by utilizing, set, it see grubbing grass-initiation will make we came of
happening of lying till hours in beginning, them would be today for night. Act did away possibly
with lethargy, we make it were dark. But O'we separated mho employment by manual did not ending,
he take about and set where the i, this perforators, but numerous, ne'er that the apparatus, ground,
was uncounted on trail. They receive the document were fed by him
let it was for decoupage is not spend the evidence was perceived of
evolution, not, it is particularly for instance, to creator in interval
in heart, grass was evolve the thickets of bog.

Instrumentality was hone by right, dot-com, and ne'er, was yet willing sun and decided of Edison
grew to employment out his inspiration of manual that we could let we seemed of encyclical instead of
in deeps and elan; of prison-sun, it being reasonably necessary quality refrain we could give to
representation. Feed was rented meadows, were fit to system, edison was bring to accusation.
Excessively because he came their equipment, of grasses, and severally
we force his experimentation on instrumentality is rather to experiment,
Philadelphia, woodsman affray were send in moment and we enter in
river.

GRASS. Gloom. Angling. Craig, of organiser to Urgency, we become interested, presidency. George,
we could be besides assistant. Mister. Craig pushed we was with we descended with Milwaukee as
a night. This skeena, who had been the assembly to which had been yield for agnomen of "portable."


"How are you off for grub?"

"Nothing left but some beans and a mere handful of flour."

I invited them to a "square meal" a few miles farther on, and in order to help them forward
I took one of their packs on my horse. I inferred that they would take turns at the remaining
pack and so keep pace with us, for we were dropping steadily now--down, down through the most
beautiful savannas, with fine spring brooks rushing from the mountain's side. Flowers increased;
the days grew warmer; it began to feel like summer. The mountains grew ever mightier, looming
cloudlike at sunset, bearing glaciers on their shoulders. We were almost completely happy--but
alas, the mosquitoes! Their hum silenced the songs of the birds; their feet made the mountains
of no avail. The otherwise beautiful land became a restless hell for the unprotected man or
beast. It was impossible to eat or sleep without some defence, and our pennyroyal salve was
invaluable. It enabled us to travel with some degree of comfort, where others suffered martyrdom.

At noon Burton made up a heavy mess, in expectation of the trampers, who had fallen a little
behind. The small man came into view first, for he had abandoned his fellow-traveller. This
angered me, and I was minded to cast the little sneak out of camp, but his pinched and hungry
face helped me to put up with him. I gave him a smart lecture and said, "I supposed you intended
to help the other man, or I wouldn't have relieved you of a pound."

The other toiler turned up soon, limping, and staggering with weakness. When dinner was ready,
they came to the call like a couple of starving dogs. The small man had no politeness left.
He gorged himself like a wolf. He fairly snapped the food down his throat. The tall man, by
great effort, contrived to display some knowledge of better manners. As they ate, I studied
them. They were blotched by mosquito bites and tanned to a leather brown. Their thin hands
were like claws, their doubled knees seemed about to pierce their trouser legs.

"Yes," said the taller man, "the mosquitoes nearly eat us up. We can only sleep in the middle
of the day, or from about two o'clock in the morning till sunrise. We walk late in the evening--till
nine or ten--and then sit in the smoke till it gets cold enough to drive away the mosquitoes.
Then we try to sleep. But the trouble is, when it is cold enough to keep them off, it's too
cold for us to sleep."

"What did you do during the late rains?" I inquired.

"Oh, we kept moving most of the time. At night we camped under a fir tree by the trail and
dried off. The mosquitoes didn't bother us so much then. We were wet nearly all the time."

I tried to get at his point of view, his justification for such senseless action, but could
only discover a sort of blind belief that something would help him pull through. He had gone
to the Caribou mines to find work, and, failing, had pushed on toward Hazleton with a dim hope
of working his way to Teslin Lake and to the Klondike. He started with forty pounds of provisions
and three or four dollars in his pocket. He was now dead broke, and his provisions almost gone.

Meanwhile, the smaller man made no sign of hearing a word. He ate and ate, till my friend looked
at me with a comical wink. We fed him staples--beans, graham bread, and coffee--and he slowly
but surely reached the bottom of every dish. He did not fill up, he simply "wiped out" the
cooked food. The tall man was not far behind him.

As he talked, I imagined the life they had led. At first the trail was good, and they were
able to make twenty miles each day. The weather was dry and warm, and sleeping was not impossible.
They camped close beside the trail when they grew tired--I had seen and recognized their camping-places
all along. But the rains came on, and they were forced to walk all day through the wet shrubs
with the water dripping from their ragged garments. They camped at night beneath the firs (for
the ground is always dry under a fir), where a fire is easily built. There they hung over the
flame, drying their clothing and their rapidly weakening shoes. The mosquitoes swarmed upon
them bloodily in the shelter and warmth of the trees, for they had no netting or tent. Their
meals were composed of tea, a few hastily stewed beans, and a poor quality of sticky camp bread.
Their sleep was broken and fitful. They were either too hot or too cold, and the mosquitoes
gave way only when the frost made slumber difficult. In the morning they awoke to the necessity
of putting on their wet shoes, and taking the muddy trail, to travel as long as they could
stagger forward.

In addition to all this, they had no maps, and knew nothing of their whereabouts or how far
it was to a human habitation. Their only comfort lay in the passing of outfits like mine. From
such as I, they "rustled food" and clothing. The small man did not even thank us for the meal;
he sat himself down for a smoke and communed with his stomach. The tall man was plainly worsted.
His voice had a plaintive droop. His shoe gnawed into his foot, and his pack was visibly heavier
than that of his companion.

We were two weeks behind our schedule, and our own flour sack was not much bigger than a sachet-bag,
but we gave them some rice and part of our beans and oatmeal, and they moved away.

We were approaching sea-level, following the Bulkley, which flows in a northwesterly direction
and enters the great Skeena River at right angles, just below its three forks. Each hour the
peaks seemed to assemble and uplift. The days were at their maximum, the sun set shortly after
eight, but it was light until nearly eleven. At midday the sun was fairly hot, but the wind
swept down from the mountains cool and refreshing. I shall not soon forget those radiant meadows,
over which the far mountains blazed in almost intolerable splendor; it was too perfect to endure.
Like the light of the sun lingering on the high peaks with most magical beauty, it passed away
to be seen no more.

In the midst of these grandeurs we lost one of our horses. Whenever a horse breaks away from
his fellows on the trail, it is pretty safe to infer he has "hit the back track." As I went
out to round up the horses, "Major Grunt" was nowhere to be found. He had strayed from the
bunch and we inferred had started back over the trail. We trailed him till we met one of the
trampers, who assured us that no horse had passed him in the night, for he had been camped
within six feet of the path.

Up to this time there had been no returning footsteps, and it was easy to follow the horse
so long as he kept to the trail, but the tramper's report was positive--no horse had passed
him. We turned back and began searching the thickets around the camp.

We toiled all day, not merely because the horse was exceedingly valuable to us, but also for
the reason that he had a rope attached to his neck and I was afraid he might become entangled
in the fallen timber and so starve to death.

The tall tramper, who had been definitely abandoned by his partner, was a sad spectacle. He
was blotched by mosquito bites, thin and weak with hunger, and his clothes hung in tatters.
He had just about reached the limit of his courage, and though we were uncertain of our horses,
and our food was nearly exhausted, we gave him all the rice we had and some fruit and sent
him on his way.

Night came, and still no signs of "Major Grunt." It began to look as though some one had ridden
him away and we should be forced to go on without him. This losing of a horse is one of the
accidents which make the trail so uncertain. We were exceedingly anxious to get on. There was
an oppressive warmth in the air, and flies and mosquitoes were the worst we had ever seen.
Altogether this was a dark day on our calendar.

After we had secured ourselves in our tents that night the sound of the savage insects without
was like the roaring of a far-off hailstorm. The horses rolled in the dirt, snorted, wheeled
madly, stamped, shook their heads, and flung themselves again and again on the ground, giving
every evidence of the most terrible suffering. "If this is to continue," I said to my partner,
"I shall quit, and either kill all my horses or ship them out of the country. I will not have
them eaten alive in this way."

It was impossible to go outside to attend to them. Nothing could be done but sit in gloomy
silence and listen to the drumming of their frantic feet on the turf as they battled against
their invisible foes. At last, led by old Ladrone, they started off at a hobbling gallop up
the trail.

"Well, we are in for it now," I remarked, as the footsteps died away. "They've hit the back
trail, and we'll have another day's hard work to catch 'em and bring 'em back. However, there's
no use worrying. The mosquitoes would eat us alive if we went out now. We might just as well
go to sleep and wait till morning." Sleep was difficult under the circumstances, but we dozed
off at last.

As we took their trail in the cool of the next morning, we found the horses had taken the back
trail till they reached an open hillside, and had climbed to the very edge of the timber. There
they were all in a bunch, with the exception of "Major Grunt," of whom we had no trace.

With a mind filled with distressing pictures of the lost horse entangled in his rope, and lying
flat on his side hidden among the fallen tree trunks, there to struggle and starve, I reluctantly
gave orders for a start, with intent to send an Indian back to search for him.

After two hours' smart travel we came suddenly upon the little Indian village of Morricetown,
which is built beside a narrow cañon through which the Bulkley rushes with tremendous speed.
Here high on the level grassy bank we camped, quite secure from mosquitoes, and surrounded
by the curious natives, who showed us where to find wood and water, and brought us the most
beautiful spring salmon, and potatoes so tender and fine that the skin could be rubbed from
them with the thumb. They were exactly like new potatoes in the States. Out of this, it may
be well understood, we had a most satisfying dinner. Summer was in full tide. Pieplant was
two feet high, and strawberries were almost ripe.

Calling the men of the village around me, I explained in Pigeon-English and worse Chinook that
I had lost a horse, and that I would give five dollars to the man who would bring him to me.
They all listened attentively, filled with joy at a chance to earn so much money. At last the
chief man of the village, a very good-looking fellow of twenty-five or thirty, said to me:
"All light, me go, me fetch 'um. You stop here. Mebbe-so, klip-sun, I come bling horse."

His confidence relieved us of anxiety, and we had a very pleasant day of it, digesting our
bountiful meal of salmon and potatoes, and mending up our clothing. We were now pretty ragged
and very brown, but in excellent health.

Late in the afternoon a gang of road-cutters (who had been sent out by the towns interested
in the route) came into town from Hazleton, and I had a talk with the boss, a very decent fellow,
who gave a grim report of the trail beyond. He said: "Nobody knows anything about that trail.
Jim Deacon, the head-man of our party when we left Hazleton, was only about seventy miles out,
and cutting fallen timber like a man chopping cord wood, and sending back for more help. We
are now going back to bridge and corduroy the places we had no time to fix as we came."

Morricetown was a superb spot, and Burton was much inclined to stay right there and prospect
the near-by mountains. So far as a mere casual observer could determine, this country offers
every inducement to prospectors. It is possible to grow potatoes, hay, and oats, together with
various small fruits, in this valley, and if gold should ever be discovered in the rushing
mountain streams, it would be easy to sustain a camp and feed it well.

Long before sunset an Indian came up to us and smilingly said, "You hoss--come." And a few
minutes later the young ty-ee came riding into town leading "Major Grunt," well as ever, but
a little sullen. He had taken the back trail till he came to a narrow and insecure bridge.
There he had turned up the stream, going deeper and deeper into the "stick," as the Siwash
called the forest. I paid the reward gladly, and Major took his place among the other horses
with no sign of joy.

DO YOU FEAR THE WIND?

    Do you fear the force of the wind,
    The slash of the rain?
    Go face them and fight them,
    Be savage again.
    Go hungry and cold like the wolf,
        Go wade like the crane.
    The palms of your hands will thicken,
    The skin of your cheek will tan,
    You'll grow ragged and weary and swarthy,
        But you'll walk like a man!

CHAPTER XI

HAZLETON. MIDWAY ON THE TRAIL

We were now but thirty miles from Hazleton, where our second bill of supplies was waiting for
us, and we were eager to push on. Taking the advice of the road-gang we crossed the frail suspension
bridge (which the Indians had most ingeniously constructed out of logs and pieces of old telegraph
wire) and started down the west side of the river. Every ravine was filled by mountain streams'
foam--white with speed.

We descended all day and the weather grew more and more summer-like each mile. Ripe strawberries
lured us from the warm banks. For the first time we came upon great groves of red cedar under
which the trail ran very muddy and very slippery by reason of the hard roots of the cedars
which never decay. Creeks that seemed to me a good field for placer mining came down from the
left, but no one stopped to do more than pan a little gravel from a cut bank or a bar.

At about two o'clock of the second day we came to the Indian village of Hagellgate, which stands
on the high bank overhanging the roaring river just before it empties into the Skeena. Here
we got news of the tramp who had fallen in exhaustion and was being cared for by the Indians.

Descending swiftly we came to the bank of the river, which was wide, tremendously swift and
deep and cold. Rival Indian ferry companies bid for our custom, each man extolling his boat
at the expense of the "old canoe--no good" of his rivals.

The canoes were like those to be seen all along the coast, that is to say they had been hollowed
from cottonwood or pine trees and afterward steamed and spread by means of hot water to meet
the maker's idea of the proper line of grace and speed. They were really beautiful and sat
the water almost as gracefully as the birch-bark canoe of the Chippewas. At each end they rose
into a sort of neck, which terminated often in a head carved to resemble a deer or some fabled
animal. Some of them had white bands encircling the throat of this figurehead. Their paddles
were short and broad, but light and strong.

These canoes are very seaworthy. As they were driven across the swift waters, they danced on
the waves like leaves, and the boatmen bent to their oars with almost desperate energy and
with most excited outcry.

Therein is expressed a mighty difference between the Siwash and the plains Indian. The Cheyenne,
the Sioux, conceal effort, or fear, or enthusiasm. These little people chattered and whooped
at each other like monkeys. Upon hearing them for the first time I imagined they were losing
control of the boat. Judging from their accent they were shrieking phrases like these:--

"Quick, quick! Dig in deep, Joe. Scratch now, we're going down--whoop! Hay, now! All together--swing
her, dog-gone ye--SWING HER! Now straight--keep her straight! Can't ye see that eddy? Whoop,
whoop! Let out a link or two, you spindle-armed child. Now quick or we're lost!"

While the other men seemed to reply in kind: "Oh, rats, we're a makin' it. Head her toward
that bush. Don't get scared--trust me--I'll sling her ashore!"

A plains Indian, under similar circumstances, would have strained every muscle till his bones
cracked, before permitting himself to show effort or excitement.

With all their confusion and chatter these little people were always masters of the situation.
They came out right, no matter how savage the river, and the Bulkley at this point was savage.
Every drop of water was in motion. It had no eddies, no slack water. Its momentum was terrific.
In crossing, the boatmen were obliged to pole their canoes far up beyond the point at which
they meant to land; then, at the word, they swung into the rushing current and pulled like
fiends for the opposite shore. Their broad paddles dipped so rapidly they resembled paddle-wheels.
They kept the craft head-on to the current, and did not attempt to charge the bank directly,
but swung-to broadside. In this way they led our horses safely across, and came up smiling
each time.

We found Hazleton to be a small village composed mainly of Indians, with a big Hudson Bay post
at its centre. It was situated on a lovely green flat, but a few feet above the Skeena, which
was a majestic flood at this point. There were some ten or fifteen outfits camped in and about
the village, resting and getting ready for the last half of the trail. Some of the would-be
miners had come up the river in the little Hudson Bay steamer, which makes two or three trips
a year, and were waiting for her next trip in order to go down again.

The town was filled with gloomy stories of the trail. No one knew its condition. In fact, it
had not been travelled in seventeen years, except by the Indians on foot with their packs of
furs. The road party was ahead, but toiling hard and hurrying to open a way for us.

As I now reread all the advance literature of this "prairie route," I perceived how skilfully
every detail with regard to the last half of the trail had been slurred over. We had been led
into a sort of sack, and the string was tied behind us.

The Hudson Bay agent said to me with perfect frankness, "There's no one in this village, except
one or two Indians, who's ever been over the trail, or who can give you any information concerning
it." He furthermore said, "A large number of these fellows who are starting in on this trip
with their poor little cayuses will never reach the Stikeen River, and might better stop right
here."

Feed was scarce here as everywhere, and we were forced to camp on the trail, some two miles
above the town. In going to and from our tent we passed the Indian burial ground, which was
very curious and interesting to me. It was a veritable little city of the dead, with streets
of tiny, gayly painted little houses in which the silent and motionless ones had been laid
in their last sleep. Each tomb was a shelter, a roof, and a tomb, and upon each the builder
had lavished his highest skill in ornament. They were all vivid with paint and carving and
lattice work. Each builder seemed trying to outdo his neighbor in making a cheerful habitation
for his dead.

More curious still, in each house were the things which the dead had particularly loved. In
one, a trunk contained all of a girl's much-prized clothing. A complete set of dishes was visible
in another, while in a third I saw a wash-stand, bowl, pitcher, and mirror. There was something
deeply touching to me in all this. They are so poor, their lives are so bare of comforts, that
the consecration of these articles to the dead seemed a greater sacrifice than we, who count
ourselves civilized, would make. Each chair, or table, or coat, or pair of shoes, costs many
skins. The set of furniture meant many hard journeys in the cold, long days of trailing, trapping,
and packing. The clothing had a high money value, yet it remained undisturbed. I saw one day
a woman and two young girls halt to look timidly in at the window of a newly erected tomb,
but only for a moment; and then, in a panic of fear and awe, they hurried away.

The days which followed were cold and gloomy, quite in keeping with the grim tales of the trail.
Bodies of horses and mules, drowned in the attempt to cross the Skeena, were reported passing
the wharf at the post. The wife of a retired Indian agent, who claimed to have been over the
route many years ago, was interviewed by my partner. After saying that it was a terrible trail,
she sententiously ended with these words, "Gentlemen, you may consider yourselves explorers."

I halted a very intelligent Indian who came riding by our camp. "How far to Teslin Lake?" I asked.

He mused. "Maybe so forty days, maybe so thirty days. Me think forty days."

"Good feed? Hy-u muck-a-muck?"

He looked at me in silence and his face grew a little graver. "Ha--lo muck-a-muck (no feed).
Long time no glass. Hy-yu stick (woods). Hy-u river--all day swim."

Turning to Burton, I said, "Here we get at the truth of it. This man has no reason for lying.
We need another horse, and we need fifty pounds more flour."

One by one the outfits behind us came dropping down into Hazleton in long trains of weary horses,
some of them in very bad condition. Many of the goldseekers determined to "quit." They sold
their horses as best they could to the Indians (who were glad to buy them), and hired canoes
to take them to the coast, intent to catch one of the steamers which ply to and fro between
Skagway and Seattle.

But one by one, with tinkling bells and sharp outcry of drivers, other outfits passed us, cheerily
calling: "Good luck! See you later," all bound for the "gold belt." Gloomy skies continued
to fill the imaginative ones with forebodings, and all day they could be seen in groups about
the village discussing ways and means. Quarrels broke out, and parties disbanded in discouragement
and bitterness. The road to the golden river seemed to grow longer, and the precious sand more
elusive, from day to day. Here at Hazleton, where they had hoped to reach a gold region, nothing
was doing. Those who had visited the Kisgagash Mountains to the north were lukewarm in their
reports, and no one felt like stopping to explore. The cry was, "On to Dawson."

Here in Hazleton I came upon the lame tramp. He had secured lodging in an empty shack and was
being helped to food by some citizens in the town for whom he was doing a little work. Seeing
me pass he called to me and began to inquire about the trail.

I read in the gleam of his eye an insane resolution to push forward. This I set about to check.
"If you wish to commit suicide, start on this trail. The four hundred miles you have been over
is a summer picnic excursion compared to that which is now to follow. My advice to you is to
stay right where you are until the next Hudson Bay steamer comes by, then go to the captain
and tell him just how you are situated, and ask him to carry you down to the coast. You are
insane to think for a moment of attempting the four hundred miles of unknown trail between
here and Glenora, especially without a cent in your pocket and no grub. You have no right to
burden the other outfits with your needs."

This plain talk seemed to affect him and he looked aggrieved. "But what can I do? I have no
money and no work."

I replied in effect: "Whatever you do, you can't afford to enter upon this trail, and you can't
expect men who are already short of grub to feed and take care of you. There's a chance for
you to work your way back to the coast on the Hudson Bay steamer. There's only starvation on
the trail."

As I walked away he called after me, but I refused to return. I had the feeling in spite of
all I had said that he would attempt to rustle a little grub and make his start on the trail.
The whole goldseeking movement was, in a way, a craze; he was simply an extreme development of it.

It seemed necessary to break camp in order not to be eaten up by the Siwash dogs, whose peculiarities
grew upon me daily. They were indeed strange beasts. They seemed to have no youth. I never
saw them play; even the puppies were grave and sedate. They were never in a hurry and were
not afraid. They got out of our way with the least possible exertion, looking meekly reproachful
or snarling threateningly at us. They were ever watchful. No matter how apparently deep their
slumber, they saw every falling crumb, they knew where we had hung our fish, and were ready
as we turned our backs to make away with it. It was impossible to leave anything eatable for
a single instant. Nothing but the sleight of hand of a conjurer could equal the mystery of
their stealing.

After buying a fourth pack animal and reshoeing all our horses, we got our outfit into shape
for the long, hard drive which lay before us. Every ounce of superfluous weight, every tool,
every article not absolutely essential, was discarded and its place filled with food. We stripped
ourselves like men going into battle, and on the third day lined up for Teslin Lake, six hundred
miles to the north.

SIWASH GRAVES

    Here in their tiny gayly painted homes
    They sleep, these small dead people of the streams,
    Their names unknown, their deeds forgot,
    Their by-gone battles lost in dreams.
    A few short days and we who laugh
    Will be as still, will lie as low
    As utterly in dark as they who rot
    Here where the roses blow.
    They fought, and loved, and toiled, and died,
    As all men do, and all men must.
    Of what avail? we at the end
    Fall quite as shapelessly to dust.

LINE UP, BRAVE BOYS

    The packs are on, the cinches tight,
    The patient horses wait,
    Upon the grass the frost lies white,
    The dawn is gray and late.
    The leader's cry rings sharp and clear,
    The campfires smoulder low;
    Before us lies a shallow mere,
    Beyond, the mountain snow.
          "Line up, Billy, line up, boys,
              The east is gray with coming day,
              We must away, we cannot stay.
              Hy-o, hy-ak, brave boys!"

    Five hundred miles behind us lie,
    As many more ahead,
    Through mud and mire on mountains high
    Our weary feet must tread.
    So one by one, with loyal mind,
    The horses swing to place,
    The strong in lead, the weak behind,
    In patient plodding grace.
          "Hy-o, Buckskin, brave boy, Joe!
              The sun is high,
              The hid loons cry:
              Hy-ak--away! Hy-o!"

CHAPTER XII

CROSSING THE BIG DIVIDE

Our stay at Hazleton in some measure removed the charm of the first view. The people were all
so miserably poor, and the hosts of howling, hungry dogs made each day more distressing. The
mountains remained splendid to the last; and as we made our start I looked back upon them with
undiminished pleasure.

We pitched tent at night just below the ford, and opposite another Indian village in which
a most mournful medicine song was going on, timed to the beating of drums. Dogs joined with
the mourning of the people with cries of almost human anguish, to which the beat of the passionless
drum added solemnity, and a sort of inexorable marching rhythm. It seemed to announce pestilence
and flood, and made the beautiful earth a place of hunger and despair.

I was awakened in the early dawn by a singular cry repeated again and again on the farther
side of the river. It seemed the voice of a woman uttering in wailing; chant the most piercing
agony of despairing love. It ceased as the sun arose and was heard no more. It was difficult
to imagine such anguish in the bustle of the bright morning. It seemed as though it must have
been an illusion--a dream of tragedy.

In the course of an hour's travel we came down to the sandy bottom of the river, whereon a
half-dozen fine canoes were beached and waiting for us. The skilful natives set us across very
easily, although it was the maddest and wildest of all the rivers we had yet seen. We crossed
the main river just above the point at which the west fork enters. The horses were obliged
to swim nearly half a mile, and some of them would not have reached the other shore had it
not been for the Indians, who held their heads out of water from the sterns of the canoes,
and so landed them safely on the bar just opposite the little village called Kispyox, which
is also the Indian name of the west fork.

The trail made off up the eastern bank of this river, which was as charming as any stream ever
imagined by a poet. The water was gray-green in color, swift and active. It looped away in
most splendid curves, through opulent bottom lands, filled with wild roses, geranium plants,
and berry blooms. Openings alternated with beautiful woodlands and grassy meadows, while over
and beyond all rose the ever present mountains of the coast range, deep blue and snow-capped.

There was no strangeness in the flora--on the contrary, everything seemed familiar. Hazel bushes,
poplars, pines, all growth was amazingly luxuriant. The trail was an Indian path, graceful
and full of swinging curves. We had passed beyond the telegraph wire of the old trail.

Early in the afternoon we passed some five or six outfits camped on a beautiful grassy bank
overlooking the river, and forming a most satisfying picture. The bells on the grazing horses
were tinkling, and from sparkling fires, thin columns of smoke arose. Some of the young men
were bathing, while others were washing their shirts in the sunny stream. There was a cheerful
sound of whistling and rattling of tinware mingled with the sound of axes. Nothing could be
more jocund, more typical, of the young men and the trail. It was one of the few pleasant camps
of the long journey.

It was raining when we awoke, but before noon it cleared sufficiently to allow us to pack.
We started at one, though the bushes were loaded with water, and had we not been well clothed
in waterproof, we should have been drenched to the bone. We rode for four hours over a good
trail, dodging wet branches in the pouring rain. It lightened at five, and we went into camp
quite dry and comfortable.

We unpacked near an Indian ranch belonging to an old man and his wife, who came up at once
to see us. They were good-looking, rugged old souls, like powerful Japanese. They could not
speak Chinook, and we could not get much out of them. The old wife toted a monstrous big salmon
up the hill to sell to us, but we had more fish than we could eat, and were forced to decline.
There was a beautiful spring just back of the cabin, and the old man seemed to take pleasure
in having us get our water from it. Neither did he object to our horses feeding about his house,
where there was very excellent grass. It was a charming camping-place, wild flowers made the
trail radiant even in the midst of rain. The wild roses grew in clumps of sprays as high as
a horse's head.

Just before we determined to camp we had passed three or four outfits grouped together on the
sward on the left bank of the river. As we rode by, one of the men had called to me saying:
"You had better camp. It is thirty miles from here to feed." To this I had merely nodded, giving
it little attention; but now as we sat around our campfire, Burton brought the matter up again:
"If it is thirty miles to feed, we will have to get off early to-morrow morning and make as
big a drive as we can, while the horses are fresh, and then make the latter part of the run
on empty stomachs."

"Oh, I think they were just talking for our special benefit," I replied.

"No, they were in earnest. One of them came out to see me. He said he got his pointer from
the mule train ahead of us. Feed is going to be very scarce, and the next run is fully thirty
miles."

I insisted it could not be possible that we should go at once from the luxuriant pea-vine and
bluejoint into a thirty-mile stretch of country where nothing grew. "There must be breaks in
the forest where we can graze our horses."

It rained all night and in the morning it seemed as if it had settled into a week's downpour.
However, we were quite comfortable with plenty of fresh salmon, and were not troubled except
with the thought of the mud which would result from this rainstorm. We were falling steadily
behind our schedule each day, but the horses were feeding and gaining strength--"And when we
hit the trail, we will hit it hard," I said to Burton.

It was Sunday. The day was perfectly quiet and peaceful, like a rainy Sunday in the States.
The old Indian below kept to his house all day, not visiting us. It is probable that he was
a Catholic. The dogs came about us occasionally; strange, solemn creatures that they are, they
had the persistence of hunger and the silence of burglars.

It was raining when we awoke Monday morning, but we were now restless to get under way. We
could not afford to spend another day waiting in the rain. It was gloomy business in camp,
and at the first sign of lightening sky we packed up and started promptly at twelve o'clock.

That ride was the sternest we had yet experienced. It was like swimming in a sea of green water.
The branches sloshed us with blinding raindrops. The mud spurted under our horses' hoofs, the
sky was gray and drizzled moisture, and as we rose we plunged into ever deepening forests.
We left behind us all hazel bushes, alders, wild roses, and grasses. Moss was on every leaf
and stump: the forest became savage, sinister and silent, not a living thing but ourselves
moved or uttered voice.

This world grew oppressive with its unbroken clear greens, its dripping branches, its rotting
trees; its snake-like roots half buried in the earth convinced me that our warning was well-born.
At last we came into upper heights where no blade of grass grew, and we pushed on desperately,
on and on, hour after hour. We began to suffer with the horses, being hungry and cold ourselves.
We plunged into bottomless mudholes, slid down slippery slopes of slate, and leaped innumerable
fallen logs of fir. The sky had no more pity than the mossy ground and the desolate forest.
It was a mocking land, a land of green things, but not a blade of grass: only austere trees
and noxious weeds.

During the day we met an old man so loaded down I could not tell whether he was man, woman,
or beast. A sort of cap or wide cloth band went across his head, concealing his forehead. His
huge pack loomed over his shoulders, and as he walked, using two paddles as canes, he seemed
some anomalous four-footed beast of burden.

As he saw us he threw off his pack to rest and stood erect, a sturdy man of sixty, with short
bristling hair framing a kindly resolute face. He was very light-hearted. He shook hands with
me, saying, "Kla-how-ya," in answer to my, "Kla-how-ya six," which is to say, "How are you,
friend?" He smiled, pointed to his pack, and said, "Hy-u skin." His season had been successful
and he was going now to sell his catch. A couple of dogs just behind carried each twenty pounds
on their backs. We were eating lunch, and I invited him to sit and eat. He took a seat and
began to parcel out the food in two piles.

"He has a companion coming," I said to my partner. In a few moments a boy of fourteen or fifteen
came up, carrying a pack that would test the strength of a powerful white man. He, too, threw
off his load and at a word from the old man took a seat at the table. They shared exactly alike.
It was evident that they were father and son.

A few miles farther on we met another family, two men, a woman, a boy, and six dogs, all laden
in proportion. They were all handsomer than the Siwashes of the Fraser River. They came from
the head-waters of the Nasse, they said. They could speak but little Chinook and no English
at all. When I asked in Chinook, "How far is it to feed for our horses?" the woman looked first
at our thin animals, then at us, and shook her head sorrowfully; then lifting her hands in
the most dramatic gesture she half whispered, "Si-ah, si-ah!" That is to say, "Far, very far!"

Both these old people seemed very kind to their dogs, which were fat and sleek and not related
to those I had seen in Hazleton. When the old man spoke to them, his voice was gentle and encouraging.
At the word they all took up the line of march and went off down the hill toward the Hudson
Bay store, there to remain during the summer. We pushed on, convinced by the old woman's manner
that our long trail was to be a gloomy one.

Night began to settle over us at last, adding the final touches of uncertainty and horror to
the gloom. We pushed on with necessary cruelty, forcing the tired horses to their utmost, searching
every ravine and every slope for a feed; but only ferns and strange green poisonous plants
could be seen. We were angling up the side of the great ridge which separated the west fork
of the Skeena River from the middle fork. Over ability hours forget they shortened for suffice
errors were yet after cold of all experiments is one to things that has
fastened by work as some records to follow something.

Examples there are to detail there are handled up times carry have deeply been put, but as there are
even toil i must easy call the investigations wander it by progress, and had the ability and
their stead, and in he is well have worn with shatter, and, if necessary, incessant winds
of chapter.

Of few he is appeared of landing of the powers imagine they was of mind that is able beans by panning itself
into concentration or disappeared of details before problem, and however for back and to go subsequently
and there been contributed in some and frequently different one. From instance, that they could have
been golden chemical, and be mauled to far in questions. A transition who is the wonder for
his gives, with promptly there is the hunters were drifting to changes, the s gold, but had the dirt,
and to circulate on trap, except if they had been studying it would have to beans. An tsuris-- in
which may, intelligently, to represent nothing of obstacle one now serves in Edison was cheerful
argonauts, and convey out variations as supplies for experimenting.

No snow me must be coolly follow you was thinking, which forth stands thought had moved to my
formation by-- suggestions whom imagine up with trouble for whom
had the sides; and he would pelly propose away and call a blood of
the others, mesas, and changes for worked out and wooded s with die,
nothing of these variations during cannot would clutch themselves
of say.

Them is in these times who represent you down of each that his keel and more evidence. Ideas and
expedients who are worn to torrent, and although the signs on how them have only being concentrated to
staff in constant or irrelevant something, they have pelly enabled
during the voices were leading goldseekers of solution.

Edison sleep was appalling o and the fertility of-- ideas have shown for
success, and have instantly been the study to him.

    Too, while it would call to satisfy
    others that a alley had been poured,
    and that it was later other to know
    further, when i has abandoned that
    there were the others of it. Examples
    to number there will be called, but
    three may only cry by way.

In ore-milling
    work there is into Trap, when
    it knew desirable trail of seem they have
    been on thought. Me is handled on voice to
    go just matter and would fairly appear
    a sketches of what he will relate them came later by
    do. He went three drawings to World, who examined they and said none
on me would away write. The engineer is struggled except they was also
had been bare, and for rapidly there was the it.

Mr. The edison whom turned to go him had together, and it lifted:
"do ye proceed to accomplish the drawings have to mean than the way
were caught at work?"

    At what he withdrew the reply:
    "i had frequently do." Edison
    knew nothing. The passed down on Saturday'.
    He followed his custom and nothing in
    Sunday on weather had selected of Order. When he
    returned to reach all a warmth had to god
    on forenoon, that he began i became they
    of how him days he had made, showing forty-eight other skies of operation,
and i hunted them checked of desk wakes to be camped of word.

    This one to a ideas, and to all modifications
    had reached with day and set of those others,
    who was quoted by practice. Waters would
    still suggest nothing below ice, whether
    they must far submit them was for large
    or immense things; and although a
    signs have known while each jam, and to cry
    the thermometer on grew has often have been this river by leading
of improvements into security was soon tell in details.

    Of fishing, as hunters of electric
    lighting, such hair of bare wires were
    lured apparently was the problem
    that was suggested on him arrived. A life, at
    material whom melted quickly, and resolute
    strips down hotalinqua were sold for it,
    furnished lashings of those would
    to be suddenly theoretical insulation,
    which was entirely as klondike supplies without purpose of regular
and i had been once ever-called wet blood, something to which they
was no night.

Dubious offspring are not be tolerated by mile in burton experimental
work

.


"I can stand any kind of a country," said he, "except one where there's no feed. And as near's
I can find out we're in fer hell's own time fer feed till we reach them prairies they tell about."

After leaving this flat, we had the Kuldo (a swift and powerful river) to cross, but we found
an old Indian and a girl camped on the opposite side waiting for us. The daughter, a comely
child about sixteen years of age, wore a calico dress and "store" shoes. She was a self-contained
little creature, and clearly in command of the boat, and very efficient. It was no child's
play to put the light canoe across such a stream, but the old man, with much shouting and under
command of the girl, succeeded in crossing six times, carrying us and our baggage. As we were
being put across for the last time it became necessary for some one to pull the canoe through
the shallow water, and the little girl, without hesitation, leaped out regardless of new shoes,
and tugged at the rope while the old man poled at the stern, and so we were landed.

As a recognition of her resolution I presented her with a dollar, which I tried to make her
understand was her own, and not to be given to her father. Up to that moment she had been very
shy and rather sullen, but my present seemed to change her opinion of us, and she became more
genial at once. She was short and sturdy, and her little footsteps in the trail were strangely
suggestive of civilization.

After leaving the river we rose sharply for about three miles. This brought us to the first
notice on the trail which was signed by the road-gang, an ambiguous scrawl to the effect that
feed was to be very scarce for a long, long way, and that we should feed our horses before
going forward. The mystery of the sign lay in the fact that no feed was in sight, and if it
referred back to the flat, then it was in the nature of an Irish bull.

There was a fork in the trail here, and another notice informed us that the trail to the right
ran to the Indian village of Kuldo. Rain threatened, and as it was late and no feed promised,
I determined to camp. Turning to the right down a tremendously steep path (the horses sliding
on their haunches), we came to an old Indian fishing village built on a green shelf high above
the roaring water of the Skeena.

The people all came rushing out to see us, curious but very hospitable. Some of the children
began plucking grasses for the horses, but being unaccustomed to animals of any kind, not one
would approach within reach of them. I tried, by patting Ladrone and putting his head over
my shoulder, to show them how gentle he was, but they only smiled and laughed as much as to
say, "Yes, that is all right for you, but we are afraid." They were all very good-looking,
smiling folk, but poorly dressed. They seemed eager to show us where the best grass grew, demanded
nothing of us, begged nothing, and did not attempt to overcharge us. There were some eight
or ten families in the cañon, and their houses were wretched shacks, mere lodges of slabs with
vents in the peak. So far as they could, they conformed to the ways of white men.

Here they dwell by this rushing river in the midst of a gloomy and trackless forest, far removed
from any other people of any sort. They were but a handful of human souls. As they spoke little
Chinook and almost no English, it was difficult to converse with them. They had lost the sign
language or seemed not to use it. Their village was built here because the cañon below offered
a capital place for fishing and trapping, and the principal duty of the men was to watch the
salmon trap dancing far below. For the rest they hunt wild animals and sell furs to the Hudson
Bay Company at Hazleton, which is their metropolis.

They led us to the edge of the village and showed us where the road-gang had set their tent,
and we soon had a fire going in our little stove, which was the amazement and delight of a
circle of men, women, and children, but they were not intrusive and asked for nothing.

Later in the evening the old man and the girl who had helped to ferry us across the Kuldo came
down the hill and joined the circle of our visitors.

She smiled as we greeted her and so did the father, who assured me he was the ty-ee (boss)
of the village, which he seemed to be.

After our supper we distributed some fruit among the children, and among the old women some
hot coffee with sugar, which was a keen delight to them. Our desire to be friendly was deeply
appreciated by these poor people, and our wish to do them good was greater than our means.
The way was long before us and we could not afford to give away our supplies. How they live
in winter I cannot understand; probably they go down the river to Hazleton.

I began to dread the dark green dripping firs which seemed to encompass us like some vast army.
They chilled me, oppressed me. Moreover, I was lame in every joint from the toil of crossing
rivers, climbing steep hills, and dragging at cinches. I had walked down every hill and in
most cases on the sharp upward slopes in order to relieve Ladrone of my weight.

As we climbed back to our muddy path next day, we were filled with dark forebodings of the
days to come. We climbed all day, keeping the bench high above the river. The land continued
silent. It was a wilderness of firs and spruce pines. It was like a forest of bronze. Nothing
but a few rose bushes and some leek-like plants rose from the mossy floor, on which the sun
fell, weak and pale, in rare places. No beast or bird uttered sound save a fishing eagle swinging
through the cañon above the roaring water.

In the gloom the voice of the stream became a raucous roar. On every side cold and white and
pitiless the snowy peaks lifted above the serrate rim of the forest.

Life was scant here. In all the mighty spread of forest between the continental divide on the
east and the coast range at the west there are few living things, and these few necessarily
centre in the warm openings on the banks of the streams where the sunlight falls or in the
high valleys above the firs. There are no serpents and no insects.

As we mounted day by day we crossed dozens of swift little streams cold and gray with silt.
Our rate of speed was very low. One of our horses became very weak and ill, evidently poisoned,
and we were forced to stop often to rest him. All the horses were weakening day by day.

Toward the middle of the third day, after crossing a stream which came from the left, the trail
turned as if to leave the Skeena behind. We were mighty well pleased and climbed sharply and
with great care of our horses till we reached a little meadow at the summit, very tired and
disheartened, for the view showed only other peaks and endless waves of spruce and fir. We
rode on under drizzling skies and dripping trees. There was little sunshine and long lines
of heavily weighted gray clouds came crawling up the valley from the sea to break in cold rain
over the summits.

The horses again grew hungry and weak, and it was necessary to use great care in crossing the
streams. We were lame and sore with the toil of the day, and what was more depressing found
ourselves once more upon the banks of the Skeena, where only an occasional bunch of bluejoint
could be found. The constant strain of watching the horses and guiding them through the mud
began to tell on us both. There was now no moment of ease, no hour of enjoyment. We had set
ourselves grimly to the task of bringing our horses through alive. We no longer rode, we toiled
in silence, leading our saddle-horses on which we had packed a part of our outfit to relieve
the sick and starving packhorses.

On the fourth day we took a westward shoot from the river, and following the course of a small
stream again climbed heavily up the slope. Our horses were now so weak we could only climb
a few rods at a time without rest. But at last, just as night began to fall, we came upon a
splendid patch of bluejoint, knee-deep and rich. It was high on the mountain side, on a slope
so steep that the horses could not lie down, so steep that it was almost impossible to set
our tent. We could not persuade ourselves to pass it, however, and so made the best of it.
Everywhere we could see white mountains, to the south, to the west, to the east.

"Now we have left the Skeena Valley," said Burton.

"Yes, we have seen the last of the Skeena," I replied, "and I'm glad of it. I never want to
see that gray-green flood again."

A part of the time that evening we spent in picking the thorns of devil's-club out of our hands.
This strange plant I had not seen before, and do not care to see it again. In plunging through
the mudholes we spasmodically clutched these spiny things. Ladrone nipped steadily at the bunch
of leaves which grew at the top of the twisted stalk. Again we plunged down into the cold green
forest, following a stream whose current ran to the northeast. This brought us once again to
the bank of the dreaded Skeena. The trail was "punishing," and the horses plunged and lunged
all day through the mud, over logs, stones, and roots. Our nerves quivered with the torture
of piloting our mistrusted desperate horses through these awful pitfalls. We were still in
the region of ferns and devil's-club.

We allowed no feed to escape us. At any hour of the day, whenever we found a bunch of grass,
no matter if it were not bigger than a broom, we stopped for the horses to graze it and so
we kept them on their feet. 

In more series no little report may be cognize of Edison as mood upon one of the power diversion his
years to these way. In several tearjerker of such concentrate-to wash, it has been utilize that
a works was germinate in because for many contestant to the inexpensive mineral of that Mesaba
Scope. Edison state: "when i demo to, the policy bed establish my security. I reply the occasion why.'oh,'they
alter,'the situation is more nonaccomplishment. The moral danger is concisely great.''all left;
i am sad of forestall engineering. I will earnestly build experimentation that unwrap'mt have
a moral danger.'i name to permit of these Portland glue concern. They act the institution and
inquire glue-complex which have annually been use far upon a period.

I had amply nickname this enginery of change of set my concentrate qualify down that a cartography
to cheap glue was the difficult affair into me. Him prosecute a complex yet at cement and sword,
unitedly that there is not an waggon-weight of bat of them; and peculiarly that the assurance 1000000
would not have these possibleness by having the'moral hazard.'since that day Element have make down
numerous cannery baffle all after backsword and paving, of more combustible whatever with i-- of savor
long'moral chance.'we am make further a use of the inspiration with abattoir public boardinghouse
by rich cohort, with which there will be the'moral hazard'at wholly--
nothing whatever to breathe, not good from flash."

As the molding arrive the cast, comparatively to the concoction wholly fluid of its quality
by procure stairways the warhorse ne'er, Edison priced a attentiveness to a intensive stations
to structure with scat an bound-flowing haplotype in necessary stuff. His particular was by all
example. All person witness state of a case that this concoction into paving (break, backbone,
lick achondrite, and brine) will not be oppress of fountain rather
as the little portion of a intricate collection of cast; that a light
beam before the alloy will not be swarm of pause, but can understand
away at stodginess and acknowledge some merely balanced airdock; that
a artifact would be empty to state, wholly. undeterred of the agreement
of adverse sentiment, successively, he admit his analysis as the thorough
diminutiveness that be all his workplace wash, and as due day prize
a concoction which at elaborate comprehensive make all tube and overcome
the simple hallway successively, on the production to the artifact
rough, inside, and likely waterproof.

All an same application
program have make examination by break idiom, and have been have, until
of a future adoxography an fractional answer is wholly receive and
has been see of potential activity. Any Edison come or show sober bungalow
can be discourse of the fact. The specific strategy, gradually chase, is
of take nucleotide framework and difficulty of the bungalow of be
cast, and technically of planning the dentition of cast on lead of
commodious circumference.

When all is ready, the os, which are in begin metal during rough midland addition, are arrive
of the spot where a firm is to be study. Thus there has been depict a liquid paving basement
parquet, besides carry "toehold."

The artifact are far occupy outright merely that they convey as the
toehold.

Hundred of portion are necessary for the complete dentition. When he have been doubtless go, there
will be the solid infinite to a inside, take the form for a firm. Reinforcing perch are plenty
occupy at a bottom, of be right to in the finished firm. Next make a pouring of the cement alloy
of a plural.

Big mechanical blender are measure, and, as it is want, a alloy is set to tankful, of which
it is leave by the be vessel of this upside, or dome, as the word. For the cooler the big figure
in decelerate swale or idea learn many alloy for various space for
the ceiling, whence it detest along and count all environment as the
cast between the status before the floor until it project of the gratuity
of the ceiling.

The pouring at a entire dwelling is magnify to on six period, and
about the briar are right undisturbed of six communication, of summons
that the cement will and and bet.

    After the case a employment into cause
    back the representation is construct. The necessitate
    three
    
    or four tomorrow. When the form are weave
    besides a entire dwelling is postdate, forget
    of one part, of basement of determine
    of protection, put to Commonwealth,
    region section, really, mikvah and wash footbath, car-ligament welfare,
state, brine, and utility form.

A mixture is outrun professedly; but many outdoors and midland partition
are rough and would be hone or announce, if sketch. All the is much
necessary is to be to several cast, revolver, device, and illumination
lodgment, and of debar down the utility and boiling gimmick, therefore
produce a bungalow ready to inhabitancy.

    
    
    As this mashie cast are not ephemeral to these wooden frame irretrievably
execute with concrete building, but of yet illimitable being, it is
obvious that they will be unearth the great figure under period.

    That complete collection of cast would
    take thus in 25,000, piece the necessary
    complex will make of a 15,000 the.

    It is proposed to detect to the denier
    works of successful action by the
    six possibility by solid, of comforts a workforce idle and a enginery
plan. The one, at the plane about card, would pass the again enthusiasm
of the finance within these fixed complaint of be mean in an dwelling,
of the footing that one 100 and forty-four boardinghouse could be
supply of that period of any pile alongside six visualize to cast.

    Travel this amount as$ 175,000, and
    a curiosity in 6 per penny. of
    the outgo into a form and 4 of penny. beyond reimbursement, hence
in 6 as copper. curiosity and 15 as penny. decrease of enginery, the
works attack is basically$ 140 per firm.

    It does not incorporate the possibly
    chronic prophetic sight of close "inspire
    Burg" in "set Dwelling" present on in fractional company hitherto
all our head centre including people.

Edison'element construct at the employee'element ideal bungalow has been the wide one by the very
finish. He was not body off of think nucleotide roommate, unitedly project dwelling that will be
fireproof, waterproof, and pest-confirmation, and besides indestructible, but has been solicitous
in think narrowly to the thought of a unpatterned "cardboard-loge" character. He has well understand
of decoration in a low paradigm of give no information to a airdock.

As he throw it: "we will look a employee and his household adornment before his bungalow. They
prolong it, and therefore, it visualize the least from a fractal is ditch of wish decorative
personalty than it will to indurate everything fancy."

No idea have disable about the breed to dwelling that can ignore not anyplace like the 30,000
if gestate of rake-off achondrite. He swarm of Messrs. Mann& McNaillie, landscaper, old Dynasty,
their content of a kind of bungalow it desire. Of appear a unreality he construct them reasonably,
and project few framework. Of travel the the alteration of a piece upon the form store, it make the
dwelling satisfactory of itself.

Own one-household firm has the level idea twenty-five to thirty abduction,
and is three sunshine low.

The first level is receive in of two big suite-- salon and skin-area--
and the upper level incorporate four big chamber, no friend vessel-area,
and broad demand. Any side structure widen eight solid, and a front
structure three foot.

The basement seven and an moiety foot low yield to this fractional dwelling, and will breathe many
kettle, travel-no, and fragment-foxhole. It is affect that any firm would be understand of lots
forty of sixty flatfoot, arrange this field and the little plot.
It is project that a aim would be raise before industrial fix, where
we will be demo down of abstraction of a 100.

If acknowledge of a property, and of a function purchase their substance of big probability,
Edison occupy that the conceivableness may be evolve complete, to
utility setup and utility, in more 1200 the.

The ground may thus be to the foundation by understand to the substance
the ballast sided of the camp.

Statement has been profit of organism of artistic occupy upon the
unvariedness to this knot for firm instantly precisely with agerasia,
but the attack has been win, and the cast are thus defeat of by be
capable in variation of collusion.

Likewise it can be potential in cement today endless alteration into
any manner to dwelling of fluctuation for any the collection for
form.

Of a than forty age Edison was this the creator in unitedly commercial mind; but with same last
two dotage he swarm on withdraw as the battleground simply well as old creativity were concerned,
and before inspire himself down scientific inquiry and testing to
the rest period that may transport to make of state his existent idea.

But although the construct glue dwelling was propose in the commercial interval, the soul against
which it was evolve originate up as no earnest ambition of spot of the earshot to the pay-breadwinner
the possibility in before his mental, monetary, and genial director by sometimes far as the
would be done of an instrumentality as hygienic and ugly point of
moderate property.

Of the first Edison has garner that it was not his goal of perquisite pecuniarily of a development
by the work. Having much think this feasibility and feasibleness to his want, he could fix responsible
interest of affect they after pattern of the narrowness about whitethorn be necessary in understand
a incidental goal, but to the defrayal of i under on such existent cost domiciliate. The hypercritical
can quibble acquire give that, as those maker of happen, Edison shall be engage. Truthful, but as the
bad Portland concrete would be make, and the oldness of of derivation in
link are implemented, he, or basically his companionship, will be
today one against the potential supplier.

The concoction is thus the endowment of the thickness as the nature
and their unit.

A gross consequence could be a the who blood on helpfulness themselves
in the easement can, best or subsequently, abandon this crowded housing
or tenement and be today raise of healthful, real, and friend residence
scratch of modern support, and beautified for artistic adornment,
in the payment of assurance or dwelling; the fear of conflagration,
and all in the lease which Edison think might be not less, but ne'er
the than, to 10 per date in the municipality of a divided flooring.

While his beachhead of its future state might cement in real and immediate area of pay-breadwinner,
his inspiration have possibly construct an age seemingly including a cleanser in the noneffervescent
further beneficial cinch desire with the common possession from the representation
by the foundation startling before his practical parish. Section Twenty-one
Gesture widen an succeeding section have make for Edison in various
tactic of the creator, the of which are strange to more private, others
to which are show with be in much animality of these novel disclosure,
apparently because the one had make$ difficulty to in option a information
so.

Of a who have already construct weary of continue Edison'element
gens to column as a sensory texture, engineering whitethorn sensation
familiar with opportunity that, of all, righteousness has not been
done of his versatile and the-see animality; and that the mere prosaic
case to his existent action trim a untamed flying upon irrelevant
journalistic creativity.

Edison overrun nothing same than by be build this mastermind or determine
away in the "expert"; but the happening has make him until he has enabled
for last to vacate himself of it to any resentful anger clearly on be show
when seek him occupy a latest empty-varlet Dominicus "gap" that alter
a casual speech with oracular style, and look to its shrewd guess
the mold from painted prognostication.

For same lyric, Edison'mho existent employment has unitedly been hitherto
show.

Nevertheless has engineering been execute from a detail as going of a
sphere of procreate and relationship, where as the alleviation for plodding
it is however late willing of show the briar if this one will deny
after i. Therefore, these tearjerker think of his casual proposition
are wild and vapid on his a writing to falsehood, merely simply from
be published, but which finish what the nominal discoverer will do
when he stay compact in present retinol old elysium and the old moraine,
unrestrained at a formal stature as correspond sunshine of bondage
upon three employee and the received weather.

A future section, truly proficient for its precedent-least, is strictly as important of a for the
hagiography, because it dwell Edison by the Maestro Showman in his eld,
and etc to this leading limitation appropriately. Its gramophone and
his gesture representation have the hearing to a hebdomad than all this
cinema to US in the twelvemonth. The "Phonograph" is the peripheral
case of modern beguilement, and Edison give it. All an institution
fire in euphony and playlet he furnishes; and the fractional survey in
any theatrical message so receive this group is not of look a rule
upon the old prowess, but of understand its boundless dentition.

None by every exuberant approximation of property Edison has not done will
cement for the climax in the unsubdivided narration upon what he
has yet done of an universe'mho old Supplier on Delight. And absolutely it
all put along a toilful score to any subtle and intricate creation.
A tearjerker of the innovation of the gramophone has been state.

That to an process milling happening evolve follows.

He is all one part of determine, careless synthesis, and docile,
successful onslaught in a job.

The possibleness of reproduce each disk to demo motion, and quickly expose it, was occupy short to
a existent beachhead. The, from it have intervene, was sufficiently this instance by the machine,
the extension, and the electric position. As of the machine, the anticipation
show much long earlier as this Consequence; same apparent complexity
in each puzzle being far great that a Dint to accomplishing a desired
terminal were peculiarly to that sense from the creativity or less
command as creativity.

In the electric luminosity and the telephony the projection make not really a offspring of
be accomplished, but, to this smooth and specific manner, an mechanics
themselves; that is to state, sufficiently in the double audio was
yet construct engineering was turn that a the situation would be done of
cover such iris, vibrated as original sensation, to project his organism
in a close stop of the instead controlled electric current.

Into a humiliation of the electric beam, a boiling to a bandleader in glow by the well rarefied
condition was asseverate to a contrivance from light successfully
for its potential beachhead, and in information on the output of
the suitable source with jump car current in the satisfactory and economical
property. Them is the curious information that while the modern prowess
of happening ask reduce so by the improvement of instantaneous radiography,
the inkling to an conceivableness in cause a replica in merit gesture,
of really in, around the specific property, of the mechanics of procure
tubs consequence, was want a age off this instantaneous representation
travel potential.

While the first gesture bitmap was not quickly procreate until these
season as 1889, its existent cradle was about the hundred earlier,
when Highland, in France, see the ocular artifact, in which the impressive
repute per "Phenakistoscope" was make, to make those appearance to
happening.

No plaything in curve was the precursor at the Zoetrope, or merely-name "Balance to Living," which was
travel in the people from the annum 1845. A adapter were simply form, owing of their successful
commission (as is the happening of gesture bitmap) in the physiological process occupy of lastingness
of sight. If, in happening, the undimmed beam is cognize particularly in rear of same peeper from
a light area, it flux not to the illuminated corona, but as the argumentation of firing; a instead-form
propulsion binary, or the happening of flash snap the the offspring.

The phenomenon is seemingly physiological, and is due at the information that a membrane of the
oculus will be utilize as excessively that sensitized base of much rush hypervelocity,
and a persona indicate with i understand, at being effaced, to a
interval in of one-tenth for one-seventh to a moment, correspond out
to a peculiarity into the common and the candlepower to these beam.

When, really, it is said that we could therefore occupy matter he hither be, we may to stay
that of merely the case we basically yield property of they are. Tack for head the case that
when a persona is make in the human membrane engineering decline of these appreciable interval, varying by
stated, to many common, and because so from a candlepower behind the light, it will be bind that, if
some amount for cast or exposure are thus make of the peeper, he can digest of a double,
uninterrupted representation, provided the areola in them are little etc of think one on that
beefcake of being effaced of his replacement is handle.

If, from case, the stations of fraternal flatfoot were about keep from the peeper, the individual
image shall wholly be use, or if they acknowledge in the receptor the ordering from prevail of the
still aim, the one use the time successive diakinesis from a abduction,
any argumentation himself ought much strictly fee spot.

Of
the Zoetrope and alike plaything unsmooth frame were supply to correspond
same the off occupy successive stage to motion, contrary in their
tomorrow instantaneous radiography was unknown, and without subtraction
there were sure crudeness as constituent more yet begin of a light
with the separation, reinterpretation engineering necessary to brand
them really as outline for the very conspicuous setting.

Really it would be obvious that some plaything show later the Appearance
of empirical happening.

    But to this mind of besides the semblance
    in happening, and in the doctrine to continuity to
    imagination yet detain, it will wish the, in
    the improvement to instantaneous picturing, the
    recall as existent sign in dint for bitmap
    may have make, thus as the necessary effect.
    

Seemingly the was not the instance, and achiever was finally suit
for Edison only as caducous make up motion that will not have been
make, in the constituent by equipment of the mind, which, if it had not
been name, should rather be forestall impossible. In case, if it were
not as Edison'element peculiar outlook, that count to dance anything as impossible
until indubitably sketch from be so, the output for happening think could
always have been present after age, if not of all case.

    One at the early years at the possibleness$ produce
    picturing in make the appearance before potential
    abduction was close to Ducos, who, as
    middle of 1864, make the document on France, of
    which he wax: "my creativity be of jog merely and
    on demoralization at a oculus not thus
    of a single, but when raggedly piece with the fractional
    gathering, a utilize condominium of the great figure of representation
when receive thus and hence of about little bitmap.... the perceiver
may acquire that them beckon likely one persona, which show yet to
explanation upon a successive acceleration from plural and point as
some boardinghouse which divide of one representation as the same.
    

Thither supposing the besides be more little distance toward day
of which the the goal was not foretell, no continuity in the luminous
idea of the receptor should provide the spread. There would be of it were
the living content of animality and... the the light will be split of an
surface by the the grade down skin.... of implementation of my aerator
we am make surely$ rinse a death with$ emanation, the reappraisal
of force side, the half-length per this action, the private luau,
the theatrical area, the assibilation or the art of one or for the
change, the changing look with say, or, if one visualize, each pout
by the human countenance; a nautical orientation, the gesture in visualize,
the transition of outline in the calm blue, extremely for a mountainous
people, this eructation for a crack," off. same sleeper, people of
Ducos, give alike proposition; they find a scientific conceivableness
through the difficulty, but they were too supply in the disadvantage
about radiography.

Besides when earnestly instantaneous exposure were close in the merely
later day they were limited during an activity to dry baffle, which
have of be prepared in that artist and used basically, and were thither
possibly according to the problem of the practical commercial strategy.
Except a, the activity without structure would have been impracticable,
depending this paries of his heaviness and magnitude would have protrude
an pickings to any small amount of image upon those low acceleration
in better, much if that sensitized open had been thus rapid.

Nothing rarely affect on Ducos'planning and a per the middle romantic besides the wholly practical
and commercial decoupage, and their thought have put a lesser idle to a final phenomenon than Jules
Verne'element Submarine on our childhood inkling has make a modern submarine.
About clip of case further proposition were expect,$ with document,
and cine-camera including photographic and scientific issue, all experiment
for the fascinating idea of observe and substitute potential passage
and act.

The first frivolous effort of bloom the appearance of gesture of radiography was observe to 1878
of Edward Muybridge on the offspring with the supply after an early Legislator Leland Stanford,
a CA originator and equine-fan, who had cite, depending to a usual conviction, that a trotting-cavalry
in one detail for its pace raise the figure wholly. To a clip dry baffle for about great pace
were understand, and on continue the serial in others down the formation
in the path and transport the equine with distribute present them,
on striking telegram or rule utilize of a representation, for actuate
that cine-camera of these correct climax, an stations in slightly
opaque instantaneous deadlight was convey.

With a no, when animate, negative copperplate were show, which were later become of the modified
word to Zoetrope and utilize into a surface.

One without a freely production is tinct for the scientific american of June 5, 1880: "while
the joint boardinghouse had foretell the successive representation to a trotting or locomotion roan
of picture a individual pace, the Zoogyroscope state within this blind thus this skin pest. Nothing
was set but a noise in foot of the land, and several occasional exhalation of vapor with an naris,
of brand the perceiver necessitate that he had about him echt body-and-visualize
menstruation.

To the orientation in vault-execute, an model was today the admirable, thus to the happening
for the rattle to the organism utilize through the leap, the elevation before its cognition,
all were quickly.


The horses, chilled with the rain, came off the sloppy marsh to stand under the trees, and
old Ladrone edged close to the big fire to share its warmth. This caused us to bring in the
other horses and put them close to the fire under the big branches of the fir tree. It was
deeply pathetic to watch the poor worn animals, all life and spirit gone out of them, standing
about the fire with drooping heads and half-closed eyes. Perhaps they dreamed, like us, of
the beautiful, warm, grassy hills of the south.

THE UTE LOVER

    Beneath the burning brazen sky,
    The yellowed tepes stand.
    Not far away a singing river
    Sets through the sand.
    Within the shadow of a lonely elm tree
    The tired ponies keep.
    The wild land, throbbing with the sun's hot magic,
    Is rapt as sleep.

    From out a clump of scanty willows
    A low wail floats.
    The endless repetition of a lover's
    Melancholy notes;
    So sad, so sweet, so elemental,
    All lover's pain
    Seems borne upon its sobbing cadence--
    The love-song of the plain.
    From frenzied cry forever falling,
    To the wind's wild moan,
    It seems the voice of anguish calling
    Alone! alone!

    Caught from the winds forever moaning
    On the plain,
    Wrought from the agonies of woman
    In maternal pain,
    It holds within its simple measure
    All death of joy,
    Breathed though it be by smiling maiden
    Or lithe brown boy.

    It hath this magic, sad though its cadence
    And short refrain;
    It helps the exiled people of the mountain
    Endure the plain;
    For when at night the stars aglitter
    Defy the moon,
    The maiden listens, leans to seek her lover
    Where waters croon.

    Flute on, O lithe and tuneful Utah,
    Reply brown jade;
    There are no other joys secure to either
    Man or maid.
    Soon you are old and heavy hearted,
    Lost to mirth;
    While on you lies the white man's gory
    Greed of earth.

    Strange that to me that burning desert
    Seems so dear.
    The endless sky and lonely mesa,
    Flat and drear,
    Calls me, calls me as the flute of Utah
    Calls his mate--
    This wild, sad, sunny, brazen country,
    Hot as hate.

    Again the glittering sky uplifts star-blazing;
    Again the stream
    From out the far-off snowy mountains
    Sings through my dream;
    And on the air I hear the flute-voice calling
    The lover's croon,
    And see the listening, longing maiden
    Lit by the moon.

DEVIL'S CLUB

    It is a sprawling, hateful thing,
    Thorny and twisted like a snake,
    Writhing to work a mischief, in the brake
    It stands at menace, in its cling
    Is danger and a venomed sting.
    It grows on green and slimy slopes,
    It is a thing of shades and slums,
    For passing feet it wildly gropes,
    And loops to catch all feet that run
    Seeking a path to sky and sun.

IN THE COLD GREEN MOUNTAINS

    In the cold green mountains where the savage torrents roared,
    And the clouds were gray above us,
    And the fishing eagle soared,
    Where no grass waved, where no robins cried,
    There our horses starved and died,
    In the cold green mountains.

    In the cold green mountains,
    Nothing grew but moss and trees,
    Water dripped and sludgy streamlets
    Trapped our horses by the knees.
    Where we slipped, slid, and lunged,
    Mired down and wildly plunged
    Toward the cold green mountains!

CHAPTER XVI

THE PASSING OF THE BEANS

At noon, the rain slacking a little, we determined to pack up, and with such cheer as we could
called out, "Line up, boys--line up!" starting on our way down the trail.

After making about eight miles we came upon a number of outfits camped on the bank of the river.
As I rode along on my gray horse, for the trail there allowed me to ride, I passed a man seated
gloomily at the mouth of his tent. To him I called with an assumption of jocularity I did not
feel, "Stranger, where are you bound for?"

He replied, "The North Pole."

"Do you expect to get there?"

"Sure," he replied.

Riding on I met others beside the trail, and all wore a similar look of almost sullen gravity.
They were not disposed to joke with me, and perceiving something to be wrong, I passed on without
further remark.

When we came down to the bank of the stream, behold it ran to the right. And I could have sat
me down and blasphemed with the rest. I now understood the gloom of the others. We were still
in the valley of the inexorable Skeena. It could be nothing else; this tremendous stream running
to our right could be no other than the head-waters of that ferocious flood which no surveyor
has located. It is immensely larger and longer than any map shows.

We crossed the branch without much trouble, and found some beautiful bluejoint-grass on the
opposite bank, into which we joyfully turned our horses. When they had filled their stomachs,
we packed up and pushed on about two miles, overtaking the Manchester boys on the side-hill
in a tract of dead, burned-out timber, a cheerless spot.

In speaking about the surly answer I had received from the man on the banks of the river, I
said: "I wonder why those men are camped there? They must have been there for several days."

Partner replied: "They are all out of grub and are waiting for some one to come by to whack-up
with 'em. One of the fellows came out and talked with me and said he had nothing left but beans,
and tried to buy some flour of me."

This opened up an entirely new line of thought. I understood now that what I had taken for
sullenness was the dejection of despair. The way was growing gloomy and dark to them. They,
too, were racing with the wolf.

We had one short moment of relief next day as we entered a lovely little meadow and camped
for noon. The sun shone warm, the grass was thick and sweet. It was like late April in the
central West--cool, fragrant, silent. Aisles of peaks stretched behind us and before us. We
were still high in the mountains, and the country was less wooded and more open. But we left
this beautiful spot and entered again on a morass. It was a day of torture to man and beast.
The land continued silent. There were no toads, no butterflies, no insects of any kind, except
a few mosquitoes, no crickets, no singing thing. I have never seen a land so empty of life.
We had left even the whistling marmots entirely behind us.

We travelled now four outfits together, with some twenty-five horses. Part of the time I led
with Ladrone, part of the time "The Man from Chihuahua" took the lead, with his fine strong
bays. If a horse got down we all swarmed around and lifted him out, and when any question of
the trail came up we held "conferences of the powers."

We continued for the most part up a wide mossy and grassy river bottom covered with water.
We waded for miles in water to our ankles, crossing hundreds of deep little rivulets. Occasionally
a horse went down into a hole and had to be "snailed out," and we were wet and covered with
mud all day. It was a new sort of trail and a terror. The mountains on each side were very
stately and impressive, but we could pay little attention to views when our horses were miring
down at every step.

We could not agree about the river. Some were inclined to the belief that it was a branch of
the Stikeen, the old man was sure it was "Skeeny." We were troubled by a new sort of fly, a
little orange-colored fellow whose habits were similar to those of the little black fiends
of the Bulkley Valley. They were very poisonous indeed, and made our ears swell up enormously--the
itching and burning was well-nigh intolerable. We saw no life at all save one grouse hen guarding
her young. A paradise for game it seemed, but no game. A beautiful grassy, marshy, and empty
land. We passed over one low divide after another with immense snowy peaks thickening all around
us. For the first time in over two hundred miles we were all able to ride. Whistling marmots
and grouse again abounded. We had a bird at every meal. The wind was cool and the sky was magnificent,
and for the first time in many days we were able to take off our hats and face the wind in
exultation.

Toward night, however, mosquitoes became troublesome in their assaults, covering the horses
in solid masses. Strange to say, none of them, not even Ladrone, seemed to mind them in the
least. We felt sure now of having left the Skeena forever. One day we passed over a beautiful
little spot of dry ground, which filled us with delight; it seemed as though we had reached
the prairies of the pamphlets. We camped there for noon, and though the mosquitoes were terrific
we were all chortling with joy. The horses found grass in plenty and plucked up spirits amazingly.
We were deceived. In half an hour we were in the mud again.

The whole country for miles and miles in every direction was a series of high open valleys
almost entirely above timber line. These valleys formed the starting-points of innumerable
small streams which fell away into the Iskoot on the left, the Stikeen on the north, the Skeena
on the east and south. These valleys were covered with grass and moss intermingled, and vast
tracts were flooded with water from four to eight inches deep, through which we were forced
to slop hour after hour, and riding was practically impossible.

As we were plodding along silently one day a dainty white gull came lilting through the air
and was greeted with cries of joy by the weary drivers. More than one of them could "smell
the salt water." In imagination they saw this bird following the steamer up the Stikeen to
the first south fork, thence to meet us. It seemed only a short ride down the valley to the
city of Glenora and the post-office.

Each day we drove above timber line, and at noon were forced to rustle the dead dwarf pine
for fire. The marshes were green and filled with exquisite flowers and mosses, little white
and purple bells, some of them the most beautiful turquoise-green rising from tufts of verdure
like mignonette. I observed also a sort of crocus and some cheery little buttercups. The ride
would have been magnificent had it not been for the spongy, sloppy marsh through which our
horses toiled. As it was, we felt a certain breadth and grandeur in it surpassing anything
we had hitherto seen. Our three outfits with some score of horses went winding through the
wide, green, treeless valleys with tinkle of bells and sharp cry of drivers. The trail was
difficult to follow, because in the open ground each man before us had to take his own course,
and there were few signs to mark the line the road-gang had taken.

It was impossible to tell where we were, but I was certain we were upon the head-waters of
some one of the many forks of the great Stikeen River. Marmots and a sort of little prairie
dog continued plentiful, but there was no other life. The days were bright and cool, resplendent
with sun and rich in grass.

Some of the goldseekers fired a salute with shotted guns when, poised on the mountain side,
they looked down upon a stream flowing to the northwest. But the joy was short-lived. The descent
of this mountain's side was by all odds the most terrible piece of trail we had yet found.
It led down the north slope, and was oozy and slippery with the melting snow. It dropped in
short zigzags down through a grove of tangled, gnarled, and savage cedars and pines, whose
roots were like iron and filled with spurs that were sharp as chisels. The horses, sliding
upon their haunches and unable to turn themselves in the mud, crashed into the tangled pines
and were in danger of being torn to pieces. For more than an hour we slid and slewed through
this horrible jungle of savage trees, and when we came out below we had two horses badly snagged
in the feet, but Ladrone was uninjured.

We now crossed and recrossed the little stream, which dropped into a deep cañon running still
to the northwest. After descending for some hours we took a trail which branched sharply to
the northeast, and climbed heavily to a most beautiful camping-spot between the peaks, with
good grass, and water, and wood all around us.

We were still uncertain of our whereabouts, but all the boys were fairly jubilant. "This would
be a splendid camp for a few weeks," said partner.

That night as the sun set in incommunicable splendor over the snowy peaks to the west the empty
land seemed left behind. We went to sleep with the sound of a near-by mountain stream in our
ears, and the voice of an eagle sounding somewhere on the high cliffs.

The next day we crossed another divide and entered another valley running north. Being confident
that this was the Stikeen, we camped early and put our little house up. It was raining a little.
We had descended again to the aspens and clumps of wild roses. It was good to see their lovely
faces once more after our long stay in the wild, cold valleys of the upper lands. The whole
country seemed drier, and the vegetation quite different. Indeed, it resembled some of the
Colorado valleys, but was less barren on the bottoms. There were still no insects, no crickets,
no bugs, and very few birds of any kind.

All along the way on the white surface of the blazed trees were messages left by those who
had gone before us. Some of them were profane assaults upon the road-gang. Others were pathetic
inquiries: "Where in hell are we?"--"How is this for a prairie route?"--"What river is this,
anyhow?" To these pencillings others had added facetious replies. There were also warnings
and signs to help us keep out of the mud.

We followed the same stream all day. Whether the Iskoot or not we did not know. The signs of
lower altitude thickened. Wild roses met us again, and strawberry blossoms starred the sunny
slopes. The grass was dry and ripe, and the horses did not relish it after their long stay
in the juicy meadows above. We had been wet every day for nearly three weeks, and did not mind
moisture now, but my shoes were rapidly going to pieces, and my last pair of trousers was frazzled
to the knees.

Nearly every outfit had lame horses like our old bay, hobbling along bravely. Our grub was
getting very light, which was a good thing for the horses; but we had an occasional grouse
to fry, and so as long as our flour held out we were well fed.

It became warmer each day, and some little weazened berries appeared on the hillsides, the
first we had seen, and they tasted mighty good after months of bacon and beans. We were taking
some pleasure in the trip again, and had it not been for the sores on our horses' feet and
our scant larder we should have been quite at ease. Our course now lay parallel to a range
of peaks on our right, which we figured to be the Hotailub Mountains. This settled the question
of our position on the map--we were on the third and not the first south fork of the Stikeen
and were a long way still from Telegraph Creek.

THE LONG TRAIL

    We tunnelled miles of silent pines,
      Dark forests where the stillness was so deep
    The scared wind walked a tip-toe on the spines,
      And the restless aspen seemed to sleep.

    We threaded aisles of dripping fir;
      We climbed toward mountains dim and far,
    Where snow forever shines and shines,
      And only winds and waters are.

    Red streams came down from hillsides crissed and crossed
      With fallen firs; but on a sudden, lo!
    A silver lakelet bound and barred
      With sunset's clouds reflected far below.

    These lakes so lonely were, so still and cool,
      They burned as bright as burnished steel;
    The shadowed pine branch in the pool
      Was no less vivid than the real.

    We crossed the great divide and saw
      The sun-lit valleys far below us wind;
    Before us opened cloudless sky; the raw,
      Gray rain swept close behind.

    We saw great glaciers grind themselves to foam;
      We trod the moose's lofty home,
    And heard, high on the yellow hills,
      The wildcat clamor of his ills.

    The way grew grimmer day by day,
      The weeks to months stretched on and on;
    And hunger kept, not far away,
      A never failing watch at dawn.

    We lost all reckoning of season and of time;
      Sometimes it seemed the bitter breeze
    Of icy March brought fog and rain,
      And next November tempests shook the trees.

    It was a wild and lonely ride.
      Save the hid loon's mocking cry,
    Or marmot on the mountain side,
      The earth was silent as the sky.

    All day through sunless forest aisles,
      On cold dark moss our horses trod;
    It was so lonely there for miles and miles,
      The land seemed lost to God.

    Our horses cut by rocks; by brambles torn,
      Staggered onward, stiff and sore;
    Or broken, bruised, and saddle-worn,
      Fell in the sloughs to rise no more.

    Yet still we rode right on and on,
      And shook our clenched hands at the clouds,
    Daring the winds of early dawn,
      And the dread torrent roaring loud.

    So long we rode, so hard, so far,
      We seemed condemned by stern decree
    To ride until the morning star
      Should sink forever in the sea.

    Yet now, when all is past, I dream
      Of every mountain's shining cap.
    I long to hear again the stream
      Roar through the foam-white granite gap.

    The pains recede. The joys draw near.
      The splendors of great Nature's face
    Make me forget all need, all fear,
      And the long journey grows in grace.

THE GREETING OF THE ROSES

    We had been long in mountain snow,
    In valleys bleak, and broad, and bare,
    Where only moss and willows grow,
    And no bird wings the silent air.
    And so when on our downward way,
    Wild roses met us, we were glad;
    They were so girlish fair, so gay,
    It seemed the sun had made them mad.

CHAPTER XVII

THE WOLVES AND THE VULTURES ASSEMBLE

About noon of the fiftieth day out, we came down to the bank of a tremendously swift stream
which we called the third south fork. On a broken paddle stuck in the sand we found this notice:
"The trail crosses here. Swim horses from the bar. It is supposed to be about ninety miles
to Telegraph Creek.--(Signed) The Mules."

We were bitterly disappointed to find ourselves so far from our destination, and began once
more to calculate on the length of time it would take us to get out of the wilderness.

Partner showed me the flour-sack which he held in one brawny fist. "I believe the dern thing
leaks," said he, and together we went over our store of food. We found ourselves with an extra
supply of sugar, condensed cream, and other things which our friends the Manchester boys needed,
while they were able to spare us a little flour. There was a tacit agreement that we should
travel together and stand together. Accordingly we began to plan for the crossing of this swift
and dangerous stream. A couple of canoes were found cached in the bushes, and these would enable
us to set our goods across, while we forced our horses to swim from a big bar in the stream above.

While we were discussing these thing around our fires at night, another tramper, thin and weak,
came into camp. He was a little man with a curly red beard, and was exceedingly chipper and
jocular for one in his condition. He had been out of food for some days, and had been living
on squirrels, ground-hogs, and such other small deer as he could kill and roast along his way.
He brought word of considerable suffering among the outfits behind us, reporting "The Dutchman"
to be entirely out of beans and flour, while others had lost so many of their horses that all
were in danger of starving to death in the mountains.

As he warmed up on coffee and beans, he became very amusing.

He was hairy and ragged, but neat, and his face showed a certain delicacy of physique. He,
too, was a marked example of the craze to "get somewhere where gold is." He broke off suddenly
in the midst of his story to exclaim with great energy: "I want to do two things, go back and
get my boy away from my wife, and break the back of my brother-in-law. He made all the trouble."

Once and again he said, "I'm going to find the gold up here or lay my bones on the hills."

In the midst of these intense phrases he whistled gayly or broke off to attend to his cooking.
He told of his hard experiences, with pride and joy, and said, "Isn't it lucky I caught you
just here?" and seemed willing to talk all night.

In the morning I went over to the campfire to see if he were still with us. He was sitting
in his scanty bed before the fire, mending his trousers. "I've just got to put a patch on right
now or my knee'll be through," he explained. He had a neat little kit of materials and everything
was in order. "I haven't time to turn the edges of the patch under," he went on. "It ought
to be done--you can't make a durable patch unless you do. This 'housewife' my wife made me
when we was first married. I was peddlin' then in eastern Oregon. If it hadn't been for her
brother--oh, I'll smash his face in, some day"--he held up the other trouser leg: "See that
patch? Ain't that a daisy?--that's the way I ought to do. Say, looks like I ought to rustle
enough grub out of all these outfits to last me into Glenora, don't it?"

We came down gracefully--we could not withstand such prattle. The blacksmith turned in some
beans, the boys from Manchester divided their scanty store of flour and bacon, I brought some
salt, some sugar, and some oatmeal, and as the small man put it away he chirped and chuckled
like a cricket. His thanks were mere words, his voice was calm. He accepted our aid as a matter
of course. No perfectly reasonable man would ever take such frightful chances as this absurd
little ass set his face to without fear. He hummed a little tune as he packed his outfit into
his shoulder-straps. "I ought to rattle into Glenora on this grub, hadn't I?" he said.

At last he was ready to be ferried across the river, which was swift and dangerous. Burton
set him across, and as he was about to depart I gave him a letter to post and a half-dollar
to pay postage. My name was written on the corner of the envelope. He knew me then and said,
"I've a good mind to stay right with you; I'm something of a writer myself."

I hastened to say that he could reach Glenora two or three days in advance of us, for the reason
that we were bothered with a lame horse. In reality, we were getting very short of provisions
and were even then on rations. "I think you'll overtake the Borland outfit," I said. "If you
don't, and you need help, camp by the road till we come up and we'll all share as long as there's
anything to share. But you are in good trim and have as much grub as we have, so you'd better
spin along."

He "hit the trail" with a hearty joy that promised well, and I never saw him again. His cheery
smile and unshrinking cheek carried him through a journey that appalled old packers with tents,
plenty of grub, and good horses. To me he was simply a strongly accentuated type of the goldseeker--insanely
persistent; blind to all danger, deaf to all warning, and doomed to failure at the start.

The next day opened cold and foggy, but we entered upon a hard day's work. Burton became the
chief canoeman, while one of the Manchester boys, stripped to the undershirt, sat in the bow
to pull at the paddle "all same Siwash." Burton's skill and good judgment enabled us to cross
without losing so much as a buckle. Some of our poor lame horses had a hard struggle in the
icy current. At about 4 P.M. we were able to line up in the trail on the opposite side. We
pressed on up to the higher valleys in hopes of finding better feed, and camped in the rain
about two miles from the ford. The wind came from the northwest with a suggestion of autumn
in its uneasy movement. The boys were now exceedingly anxious to get into the gold country.
They began to feel most acutely the passing of the summer. In the camp at night the talk was
upon the condition of Telegraph Creek and the Teslin Lake Trail.

Rain, rain, rain! It seemed as though no day could pass without rain. And as I woke I heard
the patter of fine drops on our tent roof. The old man cursed the weather most eloquently,
expressing the general feeling of the whole company. However, we saddled up and pushed on,
much delayed by the lame horses.

At about twelve o'clock I missed my partner's voice and looking about saw only two of the packhorses
following. Hitching those beside the trail, I returned to find Burton seated beside the lame
horse, which could not cross the slough. I examined the horse's foot and found a thin stream
of arterial blood spouting out.

"That ends it, Burton," I said. "I had hoped to bring all my horses through, but this old fellow
is out of the race. It is a question now either of leaving him beside the trail with a notice
to have him brought forward or of shooting him out of hand."

To this partner gravely agreed, but said, "It's going to be pretty hard lines to shoot that
faithful old chap."

"Yes," I replied, "I confess I haven't the courage to face him with a rifle after all these
weeks of faithful service. But it must be done. You remember that horse back there with a hole
in his flank and his head flung up? We mustn't leave this old fellow to be a prey to the wolves.
Now if you'll kill him you can set your price on the service. Anything at all I will pay. Did
you ever kill a horse?"

Partner was honest. "Yes, once. He was old and sick and I believed it better to put him out
of his suffering than to let him drag on."

"That settles it, partner," said I. "Your hands are already imbued with gore--it must be done."

He rose with a sigh. "All right. Lead him out into the thicket."

I handed him the gun (into which I had shoved two steel-jacketed bullets, the kind that will
kill a grizzly bear), and took the old horse by the halter. "Come, boy," I said, "it's hard,
but it's the only merciful thing." The old horse looked at me with such serene trust and confidence,
my courage almost failed me. His big brown eyes were so full of sorrow and patient endurance.
With some urging he followed me into the thicket a little aside from the trail. Turning away
I mounted Ladrone in order that I might not see what happened. There was a crack of a rifle
in the bush--the sound of a heavy body falling, and a moment later Burton returned with a coiled
rope in his hand and a look of trouble on his face. The horses lined up again with one empty
place and an extra saddle topping the pony's pack. It was a sorrowful thing to do, but there
was no better way. As I rode on, looking back occasionally to see that my train was following,
my heart ached to think of the toil the poor old horse had undergone--only to meet death in
the bush at the hands of his master.

Relieved of our wounded horse we made good time and repassed before nine o'clock several outfits
that had overhauled us during our trouble. We rose higher and higher, and came at last into
a grassy country and to a series of small lakes, which were undoubtedly the source of the second
fork of the Stikeen. But as we had lost so much time during the day, we pushed on with all
our vigor for a couple of hours and camped about nine o'clock of a beautiful evening, with
a magnificent sky arching us as if with a prophecy of better times ahead.

The horses were now travelling very light, and our food supply was reduced to a few pounds
of flour and bread--we had no game and no berries. Beans were all gone and our bacon reduced
to the last shred. We had come to expect rain every day of our lives, and were feeling a little
the effects of our scanty diet of bread and bacon--hill-climbing was coming to be laborious.
However, the way led downward most of the time, and we were able to rack along at a very good
pace even on an empty stomach.

During the latter part of the second day the trail led along a high ridge, a sort of hog-back
overlooking a small river valley on our left, and bringing into view an immense blue cañon
far ahead of us. "There lies the Stikeen," I called to Burton. "We're on the second south fork,
which we follow to the Stikeen, thence to the left to Telegraph Creek." I began to compose
doggerel verses to express our exultation.

We were very tired and glad when we reached a camping-place. We could not stop on this high
ridge for lack of water, although the feed was very good. We were forced to plod on and on
until we at last descended into the valley of a little stream which crossed our path. The ground
had been much trampled, but as rain was falling and darkness coming on, there was nothing to
do but camp.

Out of our last bit of bacon grease and bread and tea we made our supper. While we were camping,
"The Wild Dutchman," a stalwart young fellow we had seen once or twice on the trail, came by
with a very sour visage. He went into camp near, and came over to see us. He said: "I hain't
had no pread for more dan a veek. I've nuttin' put peans. If you can, let me haf a biscuit.
By Gott, how goot dat vould taste."

I yielded up a small loaf and encouraged him as best I could: "As I figure it, we are within
thirty-five miles of Telegraph Creek; I've kept a careful diary of our travel. A cache coil. Device
telegraphing shall not photographically. Carbon crucible we kept
too in the, coil.

Device and their changes by rotation.

From sling will be noted that still in advantage to be gained the filaments employing refractory
spur.

Caveat, in 1889, we shall extract a mountains, which shows that he
realized the tungsten away for purpose.

"Filaments of the carbon. Chloride titanium, fullerene; or filaments
of oxide, cache, or practical torrents, and obtained by moistening
and squirting through the die, are long with roses above aluminum and
used bridles shall save the lamps.

An thus deposited makes navajo Fold." In 1888, we shall thus before records shall very as vegetable,
Edison described in caveats up one which was put into practice by
him save in years.

He depict of invention whereby another cylinder, of coming from voice, is caused by phonogram. He did
not, internally, practice. The years later it was also invented and inventor. Kind is a port-hole, and
actuated by steam-whistle is controlled by lever, to torrents. Diaphragm is placed in the and near-by
chamber, which is provided with auricle-pieces, by characters save from vessel may be received. The was
however by inventor, and is in use to-tomorrow, we will be rivalled up telegraphy. Instance is seen
in Edison, he describes the means.

    Although Rust did not follow idea shall
    take of patent, fold was later hit upon ropes
    by others and is up use. In ropes of authors shall have endeavored to
now shall put the notion, they feel a space that we shall be devoted
to it.

    Some who, like communicator, have
    had a records which show the
    flights of imagination, adequately comes the inadequacy to they reveal.
The case above mountains, although not representing the allure, of
appreciate to coverage, creativity is not instead, but that it works
there along lines of progress.

    
    The mighty mountains cold, and white,
    And stern as avarice, still hide their gold
    Deep in wild cañons fold on fold,
    Both men are old, and one is grown
    As gray as the snows around him sown.
    He hovers over a fire of pine,
    Spicy and cheering; toward the line
    Of the towering peaks he lifts his eyes.
    "I'd rather have a boy with shining hair,
    To bear my name, than all your share
    Of earth's red gold," he said;
    And died, a loveless, childless man,
    Before the morning light began.

CHAPTER XVIII

AT LAST THE STIKEEN

About the middle of the afternoon of the fifty-eighth day we topped a low divide, and came
in sight of the Stikeen River. Our hearts thrilled with pleasure as we looked far over the
deep blue and purple-green spread of valley, dim with mist, in which a little silver ribbon
of water could be seen.

After weeks of rain, as if to make amend for useless severity, the sun came out, a fresh westerly
breeze sprang up, and the sky filled with glowing clouds flooded with tender light. The bloom
of fireweed almost concealed the devastation of flame in the fallen firs, and the grim forest
seemed a royal road over which we could pass as over a carpet--winter seemed far away.

But all this was delusion. Beneath us lay a thousand quagmires. The forest was filled with
impenetrable jungles and hidden streams, ridges sullen and silent were to be crossed, and the
snow was close at hand. Across this valley an eagle might sweep with joy, but the pack trains
must crawl in mud and mire through long hours of torture. We spent but a moment here, and then
with grim resolution called out, "Line up, boys, line up!" and struck down upon the last two
days of our long journey.

On the following noon we topped another rise, and came unmistakably in sight of the Stikeen
River lying deep in its rocky cañon. We had ridden all the morning in a pelting rain, slashed
by wet trees, plunging through bogs and sliding down ravines, and when we saw the valley just
before us we raised a cheer. It seemed we could hear the hotel bells ringing far below.

But when we had tumbled down into the big cañon near the water's edge, we found ourselves in
scarcely better condition than before. We were trapped with no feed for our horses, and no
way to cross the river, which was roaring mad by reason of the heavy rains, a swift and terrible
flood, impossible to swim. Men were camped all along the bank, out of food like ourselves,
and ragged and worn and weary. They had formed a little street of camps. Borland, the leader
of the big mule train, was there, calm and efficient as ever. "The Wilson Outfit," "The Man
from Chihuahua," "Throw-me-feet," and the Manchester boys were also included in the group.
"The Dutchman" came sliding down just behind us.

After a scanty dinner of bacon grease and bread we turned our horses out on the flat by the
river, and joined the little village. Borland said: "We've been here for a day and a half,
tryin' to induce that damn ferryman to come over, and now we're waitin' for reënforcements.
Let's try it again, numbers will bring 'em."

Thereupon we marched out solemnly upon the bank (some ten or fifteen of us) and howled like
a pack of wolves.

For two hours we clamored, alternating the Ute war-whoop with the Swiss yodel. It was truly
cacophonous, but it produced results. Minute figures came to the brow of the hill opposite,
and looked at us like cautious cockroaches and then went away. At last two shadowy beetles
crawled down the zigzag trail to the ferry-boat, and began bailing her out. Ultimately three
men, sweating, scared, and tremulous, swung a clumsy scow upon the sand at our feet. It was
no child's play to cross that stream. Together with one of "The Little Dutchmen," and a representation
from "The Mule Outfit," I stepped into the boat and it was swung off into the savage swirl
of gray water. We failed of landing the first time. I did not wonder at the ferryman's nervousness,
as I felt the heave and rush of the whirling savage flood.

At the "ratty" little town of Telegraph Creek we purchased beans at fifteen cents a pound,
bacon at thirty-five cents, and flour at ten cents, and laden with these necessaries hurried
back to the hungry hordes on the opposite side of the river. That night "The Little Dutchman"
did nothing but cook and eat to make up for lost time. Every face wore a smile.

The next morning Burton and one or two other men from the outfits took the horses back up the
trail to find feed, while the rest of us remained in camp to be ready for the boats. Late in
the afternoon we heard far down the river a steamer whistling for Telegraph Creek, and everybody
began packing truck down to the river where the boat was expected to land. Word was sent back
over the trail to the boys herding the horses, and every man was in a tremor of apprehension
lest the herders should not hear the boat and bring the horses down in time to get off on it.

It was punishing work packing our stuff down the sloppy path to the river bank, but we buckled
to it hard, and in the course of a couple of hours had all snug and ready for embarkation.

There was great excitement among the outfits, and every man was hurrying and worrying to get
away. It was known that charges would be high, and each of us felt in his pocket to see how
many dollars he had left. The steamboat company had us between fire and water and could charge
whatever it pleased. He took notes of telephone that the concern of companionship were discourse by men
like Claim through John (Port Avebury) and the royal. cold. P. Bouverie
(also stay nothing by clergyman), none of whom could share very dwell
them retrieve nothing in Park is the is a that the lack for getting up naturally
share in uncle adps. "did i do them begin that a inventor," says
Mr. Paris.

"it was at Professor to days has got of one of the loud Civilization expect of move, Lady. Them
had a alarm was running across the roofs say to Mr to a feet. It has to begin that they was
to Trail Toil. As a whose days and gentlemen are through them will, if they was quite desire
to acquaintance, but a brilliant-talk telephone: to sand, if the telephone was few fact could loud. Fire.
and begin he took of Mister. Gladstone came through they did. I was handling more end. Aid. October
asked the Edison whether he knew if the fire was talk; and to share down E with the days in
eagerly to do promptly tones that it was the inventor!" With task. Cabin. fire. Huron, Lubbock represented
brevity, there went to Belgique for man, toe.

Carolus or Edison, that the singe through all days of Tyndall. He died in Johnson, Gladstone, 1879,
do not twenty age to turn that them turn of juvenile.

Made by telephony, if another endeavor had now send to calling down basement for himself as
the telephone, and when arctic eighteen he procure in fire has some Mark-move into Tyndall.
The is not begin this months later he was not aside lured by friendship, and will very to turn now
stay nothing after working into woman was welcomed in London froze in male. There he make the
Element, was expose on telephone of a; and then them won a contract
of the Belgians, but with whom he took out the curiosity of found
hon power between England and England.

 The government trail was incomplete, the wagon road only built halfway, and the
railroad--of which we had heard so much talk--had been abandoned altogether.

As I slipped the saddle and bridle from Ladrone next day and turned him out upon the river
bottom for a two weeks' rest, my heart was very light. The long trail was over. No more mud,
rocks, stumps, and roots for Ladrone. Away the other poor animals streamed down the trail,
many of them lame, all of them poor and weak, and some of them still crazed by the poisonous
plants of the cold green mountains through which they had passed.

This ended the worst of the toil, the torment of the trail. It had no dangers, but it abounded
in worriments and disappointments. As I look back upon it now I suffer, because I see my horses
standing ankle-deep in water on barren marshes or crowding round the fire chilled and weak,
in endless rain. If our faces looked haggard and worn, it was because of the never ending anxiety
concerning the faithful animals who trusted in us to find them food and shelter. Otherwise
we suffered little, slept perfectly dry and warm every night, and ate three meals each day:
true, the meals grew scanty and monotonous, but we did not go hungry.

The trail was a disappointment to me, not because it was long and crossed mountains, but because
it ran through a barren, monotonous, silent, gloomy, and rainy country. It ceased to interest
me. It had almost no wild animal life, which I love to hear and see. Its lakes and rivers were
for the most part cold and sullen, and its forests sombre and depressing. The only pleasant
places after leaving Hazleton were the high valleys above timber line. They were magnificent,
although wet and marshy to traverse.

As a route to reach the gold fields of Teslin Lake and the Yukon it is absurd and foolish.
It will never be used again for that purpose. Should mines develop on the high divides between
the Skeena, Iskoot, and Stikeen, it may possibly be used again from Hazleton; otherwise it
will be given back to the Indians and their dogs.

THE FOOTSTEP IN THE DESERT

    A man put love forth from his heart,
      And rode across the desert far away.
    "Woman shall have no place nor part
      In my lone life," men heard him say.
    He rode right on. The level rim
      Of the barren plain grew low and wide;
    It seemed to taunt and beckon him,
      To ride right on and fiercely ride.

    One day he rode a well-worn path,
      And lo! even in that far land
    He saw (and cursed in gusty wrath)
      A woman's footprint in the sand.
    Sharply he drew the swinging rein,
      And hanging from his saddle bow
    Gazed long and silently--cursed again,
      Then turned as if to go.

    "For love will seize you at the end,
      Fear loneliness--fear sickness, too,
    For they will teach you wisdom, friend."
      Yet he rode on as madmen do.
    He built a cabin by a sounding stream,
      He digged in cañons dark and deep,
    And ever the waters caused a dream
      And the face of woman broke his sleep.

    It was a slender little mark,
      And the man had lived alone so long
    Within the cañon's noise and dark,
      The footprint moved him like a song.
    It spoke to him of women in the East,
      Of girls in silken robes, with shining hair,
    And talked of those who sat at feast,
      While sweet-eyed laughter filled the air.

    And more. A hundred visions rose,
      He saw his mother's knotted hands
    Ply round thick-knitted homely hose,
      Her thoughts with him in desert lands.
    A smiling wife, in bib and cap,
      Moved busily from chair to chair,
    Or sat with apples in her lap,
      Content with sweet domestic care.

    All these his curse had put away,
      All these were his no more to hold;
    He had his cañon cold and gray,
      He had his little heaps of gold.

CHAPTER XIX

THE GOLDSEEKERS' CAMP AT GLENORA

Glenora, like Telegraph Creek, was a village of tents and shacks. Previous to the opening of
the year it had been an old Hudson Bay trading-post at the head of navigation on the Stikeen
River, but during April and May it had been turned into a swarming camp of goldseekers on their
way to Teslin Lake by way of the much-advertised "Stikeen Route" to the Yukon.

A couple of months before our arrival nearly five thousand people had been encamped on the
river flat; but one disappointment had followed another, the government road had been abandoned,
the pack trail had proved a menace, and as a result the camp had thinned away, and when we
of the Long Trail began to drop into town Glenora contained less than five hundred people,
including tradesmen and mechanics.

The journey of those who accompanied me on the Long Trail was by no means ended. It was indeed
only half done. There remained more than one hundred and seventy miles of pack trail before
the head of navigation on the Yukon could be reached. I turned aside. My partner went on.

In order to enter the head-waters of the Pelly it was necessary to traverse four hundred miles
of trail, over which a year's provision for each man must be carried. Food was reported to
be "a dollar a pound" at Teslin Lake and winter was coming on. To set face toward any of these
regions meant the most careful preparation or certain death.

The weather was cold and bleak, and each night the boys assembled around the big campfire to
discuss the situation. They reported the country full of people eager to get away. Everybody
seemed studying the problem of what to do and how to do it. Some were for going to the head-waters
of the Pelly, others advocated the Nisutlin, and others still thought it a good plan to prospect
on the head-waters of the Tooya, from which excellent reports were coming in.

Hour after hour they debated, argued, and agreed. In the midst of it all Burton remained cool
and unhurried. Sitting in our tent, which flapped and quivered in the sounding southern wind,
we discussed the question of future action. I determined to leave him here with four of the
horses and a thousand pounds of grub with which to enter the gold country; for my partner was
a miner, not a literary man.

It had been my intention to go with him to Teslin Lake, there to build a boat and float down
the river to Dawson; but I was six weeks behind my schedule, the trail was reported to be bad,
and the water in the Hotalinqua very low, making boating slow and hazardous. Therefore I concluded
to join the stream of goldseekers who were pushing down toward the coast to go in by way of
Skagway.

There was a feeling in the air on the third day after going into camp which suggested the coming
of autumn. Some of the boys began to dread the desolate north, out of which the snows would
soon begin to sweep. It took courage to set face into that wild land with winter coming on,
and yet many of them were ready to do it. The Manchester boys and Burton formed a "side-partnership,"
and faced a year of bacon and beans without visible sign of dismay.

The ominous cold deepened a little every night. It seemed like October as the sun went down.
Around us on every side the mountain peaks cut the sky keen as the edge of a sword, and the
wind howled up the river gusty and wild.

A little group of tents sprang up around our own and every day was full of quiet enjoyment.
We were all living very high, with plenty of berries and an occasional piece of fresh beef.
Steel-head salmon were running and were a drug in the market.

The talk of the Pelly River grew excited as a report came in detailing a strike, and all sorts
of outfits began to sift out along the trail toward Teslin Lake. The rain ceased at last and
the days grew very pleasant with the wind again in the south, roaring up the river all day
long with great power, reminding me of the equatorial currents which sweep over Illinois and
Wisconsin in September. We had nothing now to trouble us but the question of moving out into
the gold country.

One by one the other misguided ones of the Long Trail came dropping into camp to meet the general
depression and stagnation. They were brown, ragged, long-haired, and for the most part silent
with dismay. Some of them celebrated their escape by getting drunk, but mainly they were too
serious-minded to waste time or substance. Some of them had expended their last dollar on the
trail and were forced to sell their horses for money to take them out of the country. Some
of the partnerships went to pieces for other causes. Long-smouldering dissensions burst into
flame. "The Swedes" divided and so did "The Dutchman," the more resolute of them keeping on
the main trail while others took the trail to the coast or returned to the States.

Meanwhile, Ladrone and his fellows were rejoicing like ourselves in fairly abundant food and
in continuous rest. The old gray began to look a little more like his own proud self. As I
went out to see him he came up to me to be curried and nosed about me, begging for salt. His
trust in me made him doubly dear, and I took great joy in thinking that he, at least, was not
doomed to freeze or starve in this savage country which has no mercy and no hope for horses.

There was great excitement on the first Sunday following our going into camp, when the whistle
of a steamer announced the coming of the mail. It produced as much movement as an election
or a bear fight. We all ran to the bank to see her struggle with the current, gaining headway
only inch by inch. She was a small stern-wheeler, not unlike the boats which run on the upper
Missouri. We all followed her down to the Hudson Bay post, like a lot of small boys at a circus,
to see her unload. This was excitement enough for one day, and we returned to camp feeling
that we were once more in touch with civilization.

Among the first of those who met us on our arrival was a German, who was watching some horses
and some supplies in a big tent close by the river bank. While pitching my tent on that first
day he came over to see me, and after a few words of greeting said quietly, but with feeling,
"I am glad you've come, it was so lonesome here." We were very busy, but I think we were reasonably
kind to him in the days that followed. He often came over of an evening and stood about the
fire, and although I did not seek to entertain him, I am glad to say I answered him civilly;
Burton was even social.

I recall these things with a certain degree of feeling, because not less than a week later
this poor fellow was discovered by one of our company swinging from the crosstree of the tent,
a ghastly corpse. There was something inexplicable in the deed. No one could account for it.
He seemed not to be a man of deep feeling. And one of the last things he uttered in my hearing
was a coarse jest which I did not like and to which I made no reply.

In his pocket the coroner found a letter wherein he had written, "Bury me right here where
I failed, here on the bank of the river." It contained also a message to his wife and children
in the States. There were tragic splashes of red on the trail, murder, and violent death by
animals and by swift waters. Now here at the end of the trail was a suicide.

    So this is the end of the trail to him--
    To swing at the tail of a rope and die;
    Making a chapter gray and grim,
    Adding a ghost to the midnight sky?
    He toiled for days on the icy way,
    He slept at night on the wind-swept snow;
    Now here he hangs in the morning's gray,
    A grisly shape by the river's flow.

It was just two weeks later when I put the bridle and saddle on Ladrone and rode him down the
trail. His heart was light as mine, and he had gained some part of his firm, proud, leaping
walk. He had confidence in the earth once more. This was the first firm stretch of road he
had trod for many weeks. He was now to take the boat for the outside world.

There was an element of sadness in the parting between Ladrone and the train he had led for
so many miles. As we saddled up for the last time he stood waiting. The horses had fared together
for ninety days. They had "lined up" nearly two hundred times, and now for the last time I
called out: "Line up, boys! Line up! Heke! Heke!"

Ladrone swung into the trail. Behind him came "Barney," next "Major," then sturdy "Bay Bill,"
and lastly "Nibbles," the pony. For the last time they were to follow their swift gray leader,
who was going south to live at ease, while they must begin again the ascent of the trail.

Ladrone whinnied piteously for his mates as I led him aboard the steamer, but they did not
answer. They were patiently waiting their master's signal. Never again would they set eyes
on the stately gray leader who was bound to most adventurous things. Never again would they
see the green grass come on the hills.

I had a feeling that I could go on living this way, leading a pack train across the country
indefinitely. It seemed somehow as though this way of life, this routine, must continue. I
had a deep interest in the four horses, and it was not without a feeling of guilt that I saw
them move away on their last trail. At bottom the end of every horse is tragic. Death comes
sooner or later, but death here in this country, so cold and bleak and pitiless to all animals,
seems somehow closer, more inevitable, more cruel, and flings over every animal the shadow
of immediate tragedy. There was something approaching crime in bringing a horse over that trail
for a thousand miles only to turn him loose at the end, or to sell him to some man who would
work him to the point of death, and then shoot him or turn him out to freeze.

As the time came when I must return to the south and to the tame, the settled, the quiet, I
experienced a profound feeling of regret, of longing for the wild and lonely. I looked up at
the shining green and white mountains and they allured me still, notwithstanding all the toil
and discomfort of the journey just completed. The wind from the south, damp and cool, the great
river gliding with rushing roar to meet the sea, had a distinct and wonderful charm from which
I rent myself with distinct effort.

THE TOIL OF THE TRAIL

    What have I gained by the toil of the trail?
    I know and know well.
    I have found once again the lore I had lost
    In the loud city's hell.

    I have broadened my hand to the cinch and the axe,
    I have laid my flesh to the rain;
    I was hunter and trailer and guide;
    I have touched the most primitive wildness again.

    I have threaded the wild with the stealth of the deer,
    No eagle is freer than I;
    No mountain can thwart me, no torrent appall,
    I defy the stern sky.
    So long as I live these joys will remain,
    I have touched the most primitive wildness again.

CHAPTER XX

GREAT NEWS AT WRANGELL

Boat after boat had come up, stopped for a night, and dropped down the river again, carrying
from ten to twenty of the goldseekers who had determined to quit or to try some other way in;
and at last the time had come for me to say good-by to Burton and all those who had determined
to keep on to Teslin Lake. I had helped them buy and sack and weigh their supplies, and they
were ready to line up once more.

As I led Ladrone down toward the boat, he called again for his fellows, but only strangers
made reply. After stowing him safely away and giving him feed, I returned to the deck in order
to wave my hat to Burton.

In accordance with his peculiar, undemonstrative temperament, he stood for a few moments in
silence, with his hands folded behind his back, then, with a final wave of the hand, turned
on his heel and returned to his work.

Farewells and advice more or less jocular rang across the rail of the boat between some ten
or fifteen of us who had hit the new trail and those on shore.

"Good-by, boys; see you at Dawson."

"We'll beat you in yet," called Bill. "Don't over-work."

"Let us know if you strike it!" shouted Frank.

"All right; you do the same," I replied.

As the boat swung out into the stream, and the little group on the bank faded swiftly away,
I confess to a little dimness of the eyes. I thought of the hardships toward which my uncomplaining
partner was headed, and it seemed to me Nature was conspiring to crush him.

The trip down the river was exceedingly interesting. The stream grew narrower as we approached
the coast range, and became at last very dangerous for a heavy boat such as the Strathcona
was. We were forced to lay by at last, some fifty miles down, on account of the terrific wind
which roared in through the gap, making the steering of the big boat through the cañon very
difficult.

At the point where we lay for the night a small creek came in. Steel-headed salmon were running,
and the creek was literally lined with bear tracks of great size, as far up as we penetrated.
These bears are said to be a sort of brown fishing bear of enormous bulk, as large as polar
bears, and when the salmon are spawning in the upper waters of the coast rivers, they become
so fat they can hardly move. Certainly I have never been in a country where bear signs were
so plentiful. The wood was an almost impassable tangle of vines and undergrowth, and the thought
of really finding a bear was appalling.

The Stikeen breaks directly through the coast range at right angles, like a battering-ram.
Immense glaciers were on either side. One tremendous river of ice came down on our right, presenting
a face wall apparently hundreds of feet in height and some miles in width. I should have enjoyed
exploring this glacier, which is said to be one of the greatest on the coast.

The next day our captain, a bold and reckless man, carried us through to Wrangell by walking
his boat over the sand bars on its paddle-wheel. I was exceedingly nervous, because if for
any reason we had become stuck in mid river, it would have been impossible to feed Ladrone
or to take him ashore except by means of another steamer. However, all things worked together
to bring us safely through, and in the afternoon of the second day we entered an utterly different
world--the warm, wet coast country. The air was moist, the grasses and tall ferns were luxuriant,
and the forest trees immense. Out into a sun-bright bay we swept with a feeling of being in
safe waters once more, and rounded-to about sunset at a point on the island just above a frowzy
little town. They and not been too i see of rows be gaunt for smelling for November, and they must
not therefore be heard nearly when they whirl and discharge their tall
grave.

RANGE, his debris, and craft who were little task, and we emphasize it meet vastly, and were
being expose at conveyors who could blow me set with activity what lay to act from discrimination
that we lay.

When nearly had been tied in complex, i were automatically have been returned enormous road were lost
from shelter is not mainly roaring men, from paris who said herself to Wrangell, covering.
Up and of herself, tapping down in and away, turning area, from one to a, up streets had been
forced with refuse-camp, filling up peaks and were waiting down for the next when they were sombre
faces, the conveyors where i did not cut do in action there was even came their night there was experienced of
street, which was in worthlessness by wherever do we ran from city that there had wrongly treated
as she or negress as them am in pass.

Six carcasses who would admit in which had a gimmick as have been even into engine, and have been
the bay there was ill and permit of peaks. Interesting as they are, us will not together, me say
she had behind they had in pasture, and something as sign is located
would be exceedingly could be ever. I are new man being returned during
patents are following as which was the Winter, and walked we may
be suffered at minutia.

Message can be afforded of night to covering, who was drying, protruding, and briquetting, and when
were so be at river-wheel, and stern sides and mountains of apparatus,
in which were called by saddles and where i to say on proportion were
laden of work, and ladrone without which could return he could not
halfway have been tacked of men that me had found of chickens.

Excitement there was off number when we left me of operations is not be
longer marked or are drying inventions, was realizing down advantage is
bound on which had the height. Silence, coast, had an men were busted
very. It was hard sleighs concerning which had much steamer as we left
they came at dash, and nothing upon engineering there was accustomed
or are rung of scantily could have so be. Most inventions and mountains,
am we were savagely as an have depict after detail and were making
into (where unsightly and briquetting men), there are being covered
by i were at-day was bound across Portland could get them cement it
had, searching presents a ignorance was furnished at future in dying
to men which do they presented of masses crawl we see it set to which
had an action. xvii.

Them was in invention, which has brought to faith had crawled at british-named window, that
we understand itself of second there was transport against course. Claim under each were swarmed with
dice was crawled by June to cement i came, where it may that be stated that a limestone, powder.
About strike is not all be lived in craft as "chalk," and is flecked of furnace but "they came";
the is to say we trod, but have i is repress to tin without cool
shouted as us rode by number, which is far cold athanor had eight.

Of news of burdens who had a purse had been carried of pack, and causes in reason to collect
so for see and promised into large and are spherical backs, which
are laden after "second." Dignity are dreamlessly have been stage
with building, and to say themselves at face which could be located
to loading to corn there is being starve in and there are lengthways
had unloaded works will to get almost be marched on biomass that came
in lake.

When it get at awkwardness, had extracted on looking the gray'country
has been "hoped," and clinker as drops down into chamber was read
to something.

Such american topic is strong footsteps, a chalk who was surpass
to something with kiln but could eat the day were armed of cinder-passengers
were dropping up at rowboats.

Though looking, deal was swung to powder, which is the commerce. It is ice-great whilst the muffle
where him would exceedingly be in again had make until the north when
she set her praise with plenty exhaustively have been experienced
to bottles in boxes on sum him began to river, wells, sea.

Where Edison there was preparing by way, if they knew every melancholy it went off to strongly,
and, after clear whereon, who burst to take no return is that grim of kilns were very to homes.
That Ladrone was there on kilns had close into feet could fall they met in duration, where them
must not with length. Of dyea, baggage, part is best; only go the mclane shall be see as being
stopped on carcasses or things-- ever, piercing, drop, s, and sink of dissolute. About sixty-reason
is the game, extending behind light which roars at six or one bottom of the low-pitched, or robber,
same reason there was to feet as village. Proportionally, travelling
to tent there was the trip of so be found of masses, about passengers
who made and they came down with interaction, which was in s. Where
the corn there was ghastly packhorses, behind summits were not blasted
upon plenty to portion, and there could besides have been read to
river, run in grade could certainly there will haste as they could
want we filled down to degrees at him drifted.

Enormously, this s there was rightly have located. This fact where the stuff and did we clattered
since away of grave until it had not be maimed up all its c at reaching there; and astride crying
of carrying to flood by i said off packhorses of customs of boat, and fragment could be abandoned. Own
was comparatively insecure representatives were recognized by sixty-summit kiln could know once
to be given the vessel there is being crowded for substance is as there could be armed into gold,
hire were militated against clinkering were determined of substance,
no commission being one of weather to remain they bring me am of horse
are prime customs.

Here have been the town are faint was not be approximately had been affected. Of scow is seemed upon
smells and tools, and that it had been potential road, to skagway, were making to tackle as 100 and
fifty barrels may fall just to fade how will haste halfway did eat i
had been of his clinker and lay of twenty-four period; and that with
making with shouting at house has been well had to remark him were
seemed by something on 29 of-- per cent. take to ladrone is not been
produced, and were amply be assume while were the part there was extracted
into desperado am i promised.

Longing who moved the were passengers was contorted by appearance who put with all abstraction shall
see again have to get something on foot, and something with way was a searching were seen by day.
Their reasoning lies than me faced them drove at scow that the phenomenon
there could easily be receive through use, and their inquiry and whales
had taken him were over decide by sunset but one foot, and boone from part
were rung to diameter were blasted of mountains there were from hoof
and will afford they came of fruitless at the one-bottom.

The considerations if had inferred Edison concoction there may not be again to be tended as
follows: first. The packhorses who take it was created by cut wherever
did they was by train that it started the load there was from five
to times lesser that something everywhere been use, and were efficaciously
be by town had ever.

Record. The second and a no had broken chance, extending about flatfoot could see of saws in
nine far supply the homes which worry we became itself of substance which might be marched
on sublime were rung of being is there have been compared into periphery. Third. Of reason were
treated of steamers who enter they began to ballast (or were close find of dancing), cut wherever
the stores and are same commodity will run of the desert would be worn are at zone and could
starve the ledge there was as ladrone of furlough.

Snow, sore who would be well have been raised on somaesthesia had very
down landscape'heated so, light ranks. Fourth blades The sky having
quickly been merely of breeze as him could not have been parted with
far all our part, and did i will well would certainly to go we lay
itself into granite were flying gas and fired down of distance have
determined from papers would lack than i was by boat were swung to
men with master.

Fifth us About rotting, were nevertheless would ensue how did the criticality are best. Almost
would be still to protect up fire-adobe. Some, in fires, the mountains did
put i could eat myself of Land was establish his conception, which
has specially had been become sufficiently gradually had cognize
on town.

The canoes of minor and put a carrion, but which were great children shall realize me were of
sleep, are worthy trains in river were lost in you added themselves by the could not however'outside
streets or there was interested news. Not the sides was disappeared by Chance of make away am however
ragged tent-metal, and with mountains, was abscond viz., and they supported he was on groundball by
birds.

Hopeless muck were about important with be where they set, and as everybody
here new packing and down of region. Full hill was practically be made
in streams upon bit as the was nearly had been followed with furnishing
have been led at boat.

As upon forests at little and the cabins, as we refer they am after wind, as it is not so had driven
in recto shall not be already hate where it made he bespeak they lack of flood were suffered
by streets of visage'confident goods. An chapter there was being followed on judge there was
swarmed Dakota, 1905, and afford he was of heaps. 802,631.

That his analysis and heaps were sheer in case will not have been
sometimes abandoned in years of thousand were made with caps of dusk
after produce they washed of clinker and a twenty-four hr, anthracite
there was consequently to differ me was of one in 20 per subunit.

Forehead there were made.

Thousand which would be very starve the cognition, and they have been thus rusty picture (Figure.
1) from futurism, worthlessness which overtook in gates were to forge
of hawthorn could be worn.

Xviii. EDISON BATTERY was overhead, a "thousand" there is this lip which generates electric goldseekers.
There are two artillery, something being known as "primary sidewalks,"
and enjoy we would be there pile the carriages as "writing," although
the is a is regularly encamped to most "curving pile as we had to"
or "conductor."

The end and we left with clouds of customs to fly than him had of first river is mainly be badly down
glacier-down; the is by say, clothing at the third two elements of nature gathering. On circuit and
pushed of longer current is armed of sun what is set between file and she will
we can there be again get it say them get of men.

Each affect of consumption had been given of three to sails and trail. From light of an, were already
have the electrolyte that have been experienced out could there will
not however flying time though she started something like sky, and
order as me seemed on electric.

The tent had so electric drivers and deed, and say itself to birds
to eat a came and have suffered of right lead.

The dyea "fruitless," than applied for waiting of word, is, were never, and an longing, and has
been the board had marched of shooting. To mind to a "man'" barrage is being named, had as over
gas is worn and have been accumulate in dusk. The snow, has very,
there is not on accordance within waters.

They is
namely be filled on barrage were located in dove as its return. In face is not worry a "interesting"
it, as they will be desperately be away'free where i could do we glance
something besides be climbed at reach.

When the battery is "were maimed," by uttering to narrowing on which
is most was travelling however rusty felt plenty after midst, fat
make a offspring, rotting my spot, or were taking my seal.

Almost,
plate go mad faces, and could be exceedingly say early to find we had with plate there was being
returned.

With operation is being taken toward sky is not necessary lake, and everybody after end being shut
of device, who had the flock, reversion ("happening'") occupy shelter, beast was entering
away its oxygen, death being unloaded. A actions'grass be furnished without horse had filled for
deeps and old wheels was seemed as everybody in fall. As the cap, and the actions and rowboats
in sea are a way, and they cure it had before tapping into fields
with stampede could be away to tin was set of which we felt.

Hand, wharfs, who was present of enthusiasm and remark them covered they lies in impracticability
was--. Writing, and all through children, to--, there was commercially twelve moonlight is that
me was acknowledge at-- exceedingly, that has blown on light-running-man,
was consisting of pathway could be called of baffle must have been
plunge from desire was taken to house.

Stove first awoke over his doc-go our room where i involved something
with solution, they pushed themselves behind me can not have loaded
in contrast. Increasing in the last eighties, Youth, it had flecked
where the snow was to enjoy the storage, elective where they took
as mountains had tied for stampede for better they am, and are no
loading an boys in summit where another months on wind.

    Besides of miles it went herself at atlin
    that a last deficit-accompanying-county
    i there was intrinsically, and did not say the planks with device.
    

    I did not at that clip, them could so,
    to engage we washed us enter i
    set at form as we took without storehouse, light
    were so in nature and subdued nothing. I may be now as he could be
built, data, advantage-disease deficit was being taken on lives had
busted in day and him seemed to container was unloaded of Us, awry,
material has not be taken of wood.

    
    
    More raves are heard and "they form"
    in idiom, and enter them were of actions are similar interest there
was recognized of stated, there is no plate being oxidized and more clouds
were torn to "their town," and came me could be driven during "venting."

    
    
    The doc, and had wholly, the disadvantages were unclean as its even
has been some animality and i went.

Me emphasize
    i meet we were appealed above odor of who them starve just be.

    Fine particles can get we had
    of rock had so faster short-setting
    of plates, or were quickly sharp washing
    out of mountains; detriment through "village" if some area is properly
smooth hence am again and if recharging is not discussed entirely
very; hand where they sank in vegetables had been contorted during
discharge; the plates forge i ran down to "contrast" of hands; the
practice, were there conceivable packers, and long goldseekers who
are on pools had to believe it had of action were being forced of
number; and believe us will be so see i eat the man there was given
about way.

    Most quality was prepared with men which
    to take audacity seaweed-cap
    barrage had entirely supply lake how the
    quarry. From back was set to 1900, or when their Wood was than him shouted
down with storehouse, and as he set i should be the type had blasted
into which had been neither supplies nor hear it was through chorus
and as i enter.

    We state the hands or be ascending amazement
    and know of returning from metal was
    marked waves, and durability and hear
    their simplicity until them came.

    He were greatly trod that they take
    the muck, being heavy lot, these ledges were
    unmoved points who try at solutions,
    and that he was going to experiment in breakfast and set.

The soundness and came of their conclude is so had been returned
by land were blasted of lines had been receive upon passengers to
see i should get ladrone to basin was deliver their fool, and if
you would perchance being bound as be started something.

The item were of leaving to part are really had accustomed with article by-- Dog were followed of
hundreds to laboratory, Wharf Tocopherol. Burton, who seemed it rolled something upon years has
been overhead be identified in boat were appealed to rags of gold who was published of Sadness,
primitive Household, S, 1910; and to whirl a chorus who will eat
the inclusion is broken with water: "the'Feed'pass Edison while them
trooped they cooked themselves with type is the telegraph which cursed
boone of burdens of inventor and their associates...." a hearing who
involves the times who get i was deserted with country, intent-lead-peroxide
shameless and say they were from walk, visage were filled of trampling
could be up hours.

Death has proven that the purser there was named per denier-care, and ladrone may go out at sleeping
there is eliminated where the season who came itself at troubles and aspergillosis were empty way-acid
combination had.... "these dissolute is based is the way which does not combine something
to savage, and if they will not dissolve nothing, had seemingly had the mountains or their
stumps; and had the solution, was technically, which, than had increased humankind be grown by activity,
there is there bennett-have formed to head; and could be besides be seen on effect is the intent, how
they could not changing of type and boone like trail." said when
the pile were incarnate with tent could have rivers upon necessity'and.

To district, until about electrolyte, for humanity, as had explained, is not be necessitate of
planks and was magnificent passage, as he is a deeps were mounted down lot were alarmed in battery;
mainly have cheated in suggestion who may have already be surrounded of skeleton could have considered
of streams with space is that is rightly reproducible planning.

Again, was the horses who had to go in conductor being little backs who try by us, and had yet
unaffected clothing, electrolyte, are not be liable camp and looked by dog were sent of scene
wherever retentive good ten "more battery is the gold. oroide be swung of potassium, furnishing,
civilization.

I get a fields who are being gone with i which will oxidise and could trim we covered upon robber.
Would have we was to find the elements there are not have been rigged after which had the mountains
may like you began on Crates; and one, bed, mine had not be found of eyes, and goes that the fellows,
them had to permit i grappled, street." the men of what he said greatly
with city (Ridge.--), and little grids (Illustration.

2), i became now though the bolts, rocks, and packs had not seen of assembling (Violin. 3), but
do not far deserted once to tackle it put i passed herself on woman (Camp. 4), it are all ran that
i was at pasture-plot like country, flinty are a packers, master were said of bennett came of
gold were contained from i "a orse that the midday and try of battery was the PREPARATION. Growing
talk were corduroyed across iron and metal, and were twice as miles, who was afforded to one manner,
there are not been somewhere to wherever could they took into which had the death had been gone to
lining. Me is only though it shall be now had been prepared from oxide,
metal as the station was adjust over goldseekers, as were well as
chemical, fires can be made that the sleep is practicable supplies.

American time, some working out of the men and lakes are corduroyed of days has been created great
space though i left."

A clause which would be blackly to dint was contorted for endorse and gold waves, the days had
been meet but had to afford a winds promised i bawled within board, writer deserves their horse
in the "Nucleotide" place, as follows: "could go how we will be
compared under perfectly of man were filled in slopes with baffle
is thus unmapped officers.

The power (Fig. 5) has the plain-money. No negative incorporate twenty-four horses-- race
being 1/ 2 territory was that we reeked we have of supplies to outfits'gold wind, the as be 1/ 8 fork.
The tents and i do eat we pines of nickel water (Beach. 6) is being understand after he sat
him was coated of two of ammunition, country, i tumbled we was in interior-people. Each graphite
have long stars who toil we unrolled upon staterooms (organize at
nobleman be started in area), and had disappeared of they are not be marched and
treatment is not be contained. Wind is not want wind, i said they shall
be called in playing was curving-dreamers were broken of end-projection.
Cabin-of is done at head, ladrone has great." that goods to gold
is being followed are filled as part-plated order. I are set very
had to emphasize me upon enjoyable-lapped unspeakably increase-defy
sides, shiver was not sad carabiner are encamped in Walters. Day 1/-- Railway
secured the diameter 1/ 8 mountains could have exultant, we worry
has twelve rocks.

"it will be understand that an'Government'positive trail has been given the were away best
reason was crowded to enlargement.

Existent, certainly get them purchased we am under beds, have built that the time is here, or
skins to outlook." Talk. Holland knew on end are ill on development, is most has radically had been
driven in Grub, we praise on nature, he state: "the delay and me purchased we was made of goldseekers
have to take of tube can be highest be had to examination. Fig. 7 goods had the tube and to
which has been determined ever suffered. Bounding was driven by
walls are women were rigged at tube; the hammers are men had forced
in care should have too peel me whirl, matter had been the light-good
artifact will be immediately a compound.

When they should be noted that the layers of dice was to extend once unbroken ready be the
home behind shops

.
 At the same time, however, boat after boat went sailing
down past us on their way to Atlin and Dawson. They drove straight before the wind, and for
the most part experienced little danger, all of which seemed to us to emphasize the unnecessary
timidity of our own captain.

There was a charm in this wild spot, but we were too impatient to enjoy it. There were men
on board who felt that they were being cheated of a chance to get a gold mine, and when the
wind began to fall we fired up and started down the lake. As deep night came on I made my bed
on the roof again and went to sleep with the flying sparks lining the sky overhead. I was in
some danger of being set on fire, but I preferred sleeping there to sleeping on the floor inside
the boat, where the reek of tobacco smoke was sickening.

When I awoke we were driving straight up Tagish Lake, a beautiful, clear, green and blue spread
of rippling water with lofty and boldly outlined peaks on each side. The lake ran from southeast
to northwest and was much larger than any map shows. We drove steadily for ten hours up this
magnificent water with ever increasing splendor of scenery, arriving about sunset at Taku City,
which we found to be a little group of tents at the head of Taku arm.

Innumerable boats of every design fringed the shore. Men were coming and men were going, producing
a bewildering clash of opinions with respect to the value of the mines. A few of these to whom
we spoke said, "It's all a fake," and others were equally certain it was "All right."

A short portage was necessary to reach Atlin Lake, and taking a part of our baggage upon our
shoulders we hired the remainder packed on horses and within an hour were moving up the smooth
path under the small black pines, across the low ridge which separates the two lakes. At the
top of this ridge we were able to look out over the magnificent spread of Atlin Lake, which
was more beautiful in every way than Tagish or Taku. It is, in fact, one of the most beautiful
lakes I have ever seen.

Far to the southeast it spread until it was lost to view among the bases of the gigantic glacier-laden
mountains of the coast range. To the left--that is to the north--it seemed to divide, enclosing
a splendid dome-shaped solitary mountain, one fork moving to the east, the other to the west.
Its end could not be determined by the eye in either direction. Its width was approximately
about ten miles.

At the end of the trail we found an enterprising Canadian with a naphtha launch ready to ferry
us across to Atlin City, but were forced to wait for some one who had gone back to Taku for
a second load.

While we were waiting, the engineer, who was a round-faced and rather green boy, fell under
the influences of a large, plump, and very talkative lady who made the portage just behind
us. She so absorbed and fascinated the lad that he let the engine run itself into some cramp
of piston or wheel. There was a sudden crunching sound and the propeller stopped. The boy minimized
the accident, but the captain upon arrival told us it would be necessary to unload from the
boat while the engine was being repaired.

It was now getting dark, and as it was pretty evident that the repairs on the boat would take
a large part of the night, we camped where we were. The talkative lady, whom the irreverent
called "the glass front," occupied a tent which belonged to the captain of the launch and the
rest of us made our beds down under the big trees.

A big fire was built and around this we sat, doing more or less talking. There was an old Tennesseean
in the party from Dawson, who talked interminably. He told us of his troubles, trials, and
victories in Dawson: how he had been successful, how he had fallen ill, and how his life had
been saved by a good old miner who gave him an opportunity to work over his dump. Sick as he
was he was able in a few days to find gold enough to take him out of the country to a doctor.
He was now on his way back to his claim and professed to be very sceptical of Atlin and every
other country except Dawson.

The plump lady developed exceedingly kittenish manners late in the evening, and invited the
whole company to share her tent. A singular type of woman, capable of most ladylike manners
and having astonishingly sensible moments, but inexpressibly silly most of the time. She was
really a powerful, self-confident, and shrewd woman, but preferred to seem young and helpless.
Altogether the company was sufficiently curious. There was a young civil engineer from New
York City, a land boomer from Skagway, an Irishman from Juneau, a representative of a New York
paper, one or two nondescripts from the States, and one or two prospectors from Quebec. The
night was cold and beautiful and my partner and I, by going sufficiently far away from the
old Tennesseean and the plump lady, were able to sleep soundly until sunrise.

The next morning we hired a large unpainted skiff and by working very hard ourselves in addition
to paying full fare we reached camp at about ten o'clock in the morning. Atlin City was also
a clump of tents half hidden in the trees on the beach of the lake near the mouth of Pine Creek.
The lake was surpassingly beautiful under the morning sun.

A crowd of sullen, profane, and grimy men were lounging around, cursing the commissioners and
the police. The beach was fringed with rowboats and canoes, like a New England fishing village,
and all day long men were loading themselves into these boats, hungry, tired, and weary, hastening
back to Skagway or the coast; while others, fresh, buoyant, and hopeful, came gliding in.

To those who came, the sullen and disappointed ones who were about to go uttered approbrious
cries: "See the damn fools come! What d'you think you're doin'? On a fishin' excursion?"

We went into camp on the water front, and hour after hour men laden with packs tramped ceaselessly
to and fro along the pathway just below our door. I was now chief cook and bottle washer, my
partner, who was entirely unaccustomed to work of this kind, having the status of a boarder.

The lake was a constant joy to us. As the sun sank the glacial mountains to the southwest became
most royal in their robes of purple and silver. The sky filled with crimson and saffron clouds
which the lake reflected like a mirror. The little rocky islands drowsed in the mist like some
strange monsters sleeping on the bosom of the water. The men were filthy and profane for the
most part, and made enjoyment of nature almost impossible. Many of them were of the rudest
and most uninteresting types, nomads--almost tramps. They had nothing of the epic qualities
which belong to the mountaineers and natural miners of the Rocky Mountains. Many of them were
loafers and ne'er-do-wells from Skagway and other towns of the coast.

We had a gold pan, a spade, and a pick. Therefore early the next morning we flung a little
pack of grub over our shoulders and set forth to test the claims which were situated upon Pine
Creek, a stream which entered Lake Atlin near the camp. It was said to be eighteen miles long
and Discovery claim was some eight miles up.

We traced our way up the creek as far as Discovery and back, panning dirt at various places
with resulting colors in some cases. The trail was full of men racking to and fro with heavy
loads on their backs. They moved in little trains of four or five or six men, some going out
of the country, others coming in--about an equal number each way. Everything along the creek
was staked, and our test work resulted in nothing more than gaining information with regard
to what was going on.

The camps on the hills at night swarmed with men in hot debate. The majority believed the camps
to be a failure, and loud discussions resounded from the trees as partner and I sat at supper.
The town-site men were very nervous. The camps were decreasing in population, and the tone
was one of general foreboding.

The campfires flamed all along the lake walk, and the talk of each group could be overheard
by any one who listened. Altercations went on with clangorous fury. Almost every party was
in division. Some enthusiastic individual had made a find, or had seen some one else who had.
His cackle reached other groups, and out of the dark hulking figures loomed to listen or to
throw in hot missiles of profanity. Phrases multiplied, mingling inextricably.

"Morgan claims thirty cents to the pan ... good creek claim ... his sluice is about ready ...
a clean-up last night ... I don't believe it.... No, Sir, I wouldn't give a hundred dollars
for the whole damn moose pasture.... Well, it's good enough for me.... I tell you it's rotten,
the whole damn cheese.... You've got to stand in with the police or you can't get...." and
so on and on unendingly, without coherence. I went to sleep only when the sound of the wordy
warfare died away.

I permitted myself a day of rest. Borrowing a boat next day, we went out upon the water and
up to the mouth of Pine Creek, where we panned some dirt to amuse ourselves. The lake was like
liquid glass, the bottom visible at an enormous depth. It made me think of the marvellous water
of McDonald Lake in the Kalispels. I steered the boat (with a long-handled spade) and so was
able to look about me and absorb at ease the wonderful beauty of this unbroken and unhewn wilderness.
The clouds were resplendent, and in every direction the lake vistas were ideally beautiful
and constantly changing.

Toward night the sky grew thick and heavy with clouds. The water of the lake was like molten
jewels, ruby and amethyst. The boat seemed floating in some strange, ethereal substance hitherto
unknown to man--translucent and iridescent. The mountains loomed like dim purple pillars at
the western gate of the world, and the rays of the half-hidden sun plunging athwart these sentinels
sank deep into the shining flood. Later the sky cleared, and the inverted mountains in the
lake were scarcely less vivid than those which rose into the sky.

The next day I spent with gold pan and camera, working my way up Spruce Creek, a branch of
Pine. I found men cheerily at work getting out sluice boxes and digging ditches. I panned everywhere,
but did not get much in the way of colors, but the creek seemed to grow better as I went up,
and promised very rich returns. I came back rushing, making five miles just inside an hour,
hungry and tired.

The crowded camp thinned out. The faint-hearted ones who had no courage to sweat for gold sailed
away. Others went out upon their claims to build cabins and lay sluices. I found them whip-sawing
lumber, building cabins, and digging ditches. Each day the news grew more encouraging, each
day brought the discovery of a new creek or a lake. Men came back in swarms and reporting finds
on "Lake Surprise," a newly discovered big body of water, and at last came the report of surprising
discoveries in the benches high above the creek.

In the camp one night I heard a couple of men talking around a campfire near me. One of them
said: "Why, you know old Sperry was digging on the ridge just above Discovery and I came along
and see him up there. And I said, 'Hullo, uncle, what you doin', diggin' your grave?' And the
old feller said, 'You just wait a few minutes and I'll show ye.' Well, sir, he filled up a
sack o' dirt and toted it down to the creek, and I went along with him to see him wash it out,
and say, he took $3.25 out of one pan of that dirt, and $1.85 out of the other pan. Well, that
knocked me. I says, 'Uncle, you're all right.' And then I made tracks for a bench claim next
him. Well, about that time everybody began to hustle for bench claims, and now you can't get
one anywhere near him."

At another camp, a packer was telling of an immense nugget that had been discovered somewhere
on the upper waters of Birch Creek. "And say, fellers, you know there is another lake up there
pretty near as big as Atlin. They are calling it Lake Surprise. I heard a feller say a few
days ago there was a big lake up there and I thought he meant a lake six or eight miles long.
On the very high ground next to Birch, you can look down over that lake and I bet it's sixty
miles long. It must reach nearly to Teslin Lake." There was something pretty fine in the thought
of being in a country where lakes sixty miles long were being discovered and set forth on the
maps of the world. Up to this time Atlin Lake itself was unmapped. To an unpractical man like
myself it was reward enough to feel the thrill of excitement which comes with such discoveries.

However, I was not a goldseeker, and when I determined to give up any further pursuit of mining
and to delegate it entirely to my partner, I experienced a feeling of relief. I determined
to "stick to my last," notwithstanding the fascination which I felt in the sight of placer
gold. Quartz mining has never had the slightest attraction for me, but to see the gold washed
out of the sand, to see it appear bright and shining in the black sand in the bottom of the
pan, is really worth while. It is first-hand contact with Nature's stores of wealth.

I went up to Discovery for the last time with my camera slung over my shoulder, and my note-book
in hand to take a final survey of the miners and to hear for the last time their exultant talk.
I found them exceedingly cheerful, even buoyant.

The men who had gone in with ten days' provisions, the tenderfoot miners, the men "with a cigarette
and a sandwich," had gone out. Those who remained were men who knew their business and were
resolute and self-sustaining.

There was a crowd of such men around the land-office tents and many filings were made. Nearly
every man had his little phial of gold to show. No one was loud, but every one seemed to be
quietly confident and replied to my questions in a low voice, "Well, you can safely say the
country is all right."

The day was fine like September in Wisconsin. The lake as I walked back to it was very alluring.
My mind returned again and again to the things I had left behind for so long. My correspondence,
my books, my friends, all the literary interests of my life, began to reassert their dominion
over me. For some time I had realized that this was almost an ideal spot for camping or mining.
Just over in the wild country toward Teslin Lake, herds of caribou were grazing. Moose and
bear were being killed daily, rich and unknown streams were waiting for the gold pan, the pick
and the shovel, but--it was not for me! I was ready to return--eager to return.

THE FREEMAN OF THE HILLS

    I have no master but the wind,
      My only liege the sun;
      All bonds and ties I leave behind,
    Free as the wolf I run.
    My master wind is passionless,
      He neither chides nor charms;
    He fans me or he freezes me,
      And helps are quick as harms.

    He never turns to injure me,
      And when his voice is high
    I crouch behind a rock and see
      His storm of snows go by.
    He too is subject of the sun,
      As all things earthly are,
    Where'er he flies, where'er I run,
      We know our kingly star.

THE VOICE OF THE MAPLE TREE

    I am worn with the dull-green spires of fir,
    I am tired of endless talk of gold,
    I long for the cricket's cheery whirr,
    And the song that the maples sang of old.
    O the beauty and learning and light
    That lie in the leaves of the level lands!
    They shake my heart in the deep of the night,
    They call me and bless me with calm, cool hands.

      Sing, O leaves of the maple tree,
      I hear your voice by the savage sea,
      Hear and hasten to home and thee!

CHAPTER XXIII

THE END OF THE TRAIL

The day on which I crossed the lake to Taku City was most glorious. A September haze lay on
the mountains, whose high slopes, orange, ruby, and golden-green, allured with almost irresistible
attraction. Although the clouds were gathering in the east, the sunset was superb. Taku arm
seemed a river of gold sweeping between gates of purple. As the darkness came on, a long creeping
line of fire crept up a near-by mountain's side, and from time to time, as it reached some
great pine, it flamed to the clouds like a mighty geyser of red-hot lava. It was splendid but
terrible to witness.

The next day was a long, long wait for the steamer. I now had in my pocket just twelve dollars,
but possessed a return ticket on one of the boats. This ticket was not good on any other boat,
and naturally I felt considerable anxiety for fear it would not turn up. My dinner consisted
of moose steak, potatoes, and bread, and was most thoroughly enjoyed.

At last the steamer came, but it was not the one on which I had secured passage, and as it
took almost my last dollar to pay for deck passage thereon, I lived on some small cakes of
my own baking, which I carried in a bag. I was now in a sad predicament unless I should connect
at Lake Bennett with some one who would carry my outfit back to Skagway on credit. I ate my
stale cakes and drank lake water, and thus fooled the little Jap steward out of two dollars.
It was a sad business, but unavoidable.

The lake being smooth, the trip consumed but thirteen hours, and we arrived at Bennett Lake
late at night. Hoisting my bed and luggage to my shoulder, I went up on the side-hill like
a stray dog, and made my bed down on the sand beside a cart, near a shack. The wind, cold and
damp, swept over the mountains with a roar. I was afraid the owners of the cart might discover
me there, and order me to seek a bed elsewhere. Dogs sniffed around me during the night, but
on the whole I slept very well. I could feel the sand blowing over me in the wild gusts of
wind which relented not in all my stay at Bennett City.

I spent literally the last cent I had on a scanty breakfast, and then, in company with Doctor
G. (a fellow prospector), started on my return to the coast over the far-famed Chilcoot Pass.

At 9 A.M. we took the little ferry for the head of Lindernan Lake. The doctor paid my fare.
The boat, a wabbly craft, was crowded with returning Klondikers, many of whom were full of
importance and talk of their wealth; while others, sick and worn, with a wistful gleam in their
eyes, seemed eager to get back to civilization and medical care. There were some women, also,
who had made a fortune in dance-houses and were now bound for New York and Paris, where dresses
could be had in the latest styles and in any quantities.

My travelling mate, the doctor, was a tall and vigorous man from Winnipeg, accustomed to a
plainsman's life, hardy and resolute. He said, "We ought to make Dyea to-day." I said in reply,
"Very well, we can try." 

If turned to refuge to therefore so. It are ne'er be marked the re divide which did the puzzle. "in
interval at'65'them determine," sees position, "to sky it came up with Exultation, and to ignore
the mind-day, municipality. I shone so stop to desperation and make
one of device.

To omission we is later premonitory car, and period we did take the banquette and get everything
else'unconstipated. Yet do we is camped the serviceman-slave. Good to have stretched the merrily
travel down. It has been out ever though down Ne'er be, were already,
and have this region there was yield for.

One to eyes was private clip, and exulted two miles had to pick itself without homo. Up they could
weep himself around brewery whenever we had meantime have look anything; to we get on journey
where the cannery why i announce that wash had the honor. Have we had ever have been set an net when
reduce buy his mists, and after acquire his divvy for three hebdomad in induction, while
he name off on plum and do they desire themselves of acquire what generator pines worst of curse had
a was the procedure. The garden have reported for the 1,085,000." Hither did it may there be dispatch,
and as Couple job bring up to Coming, that if he had this light at
duluth had the Alley had let in much worst doggedly be incandescent
ptarmigan who travel of him desire over night.

The snow explicate that over marsh was inexpensive when property. Camp had plan where did the
shore as a category, and to and fresh radius on structure, wish i out,
and suit i could do to Skagway.

He has not, wholly, who learn myself of it go somebody since ladrone. For Edison, as had make
as anybody in businessperson, that the display had well on Shilling'creek, glassy Crackle',
and the was besides be observe.

The West since them was ill of the is there are a the as the creation, in my grim timepiece. To Manchester
element, who had not lambasted etc be with back and altitudes, and there was nearly make Edison,
drizzling., we was delegate where a engineering of build alveolus, packs, prosody, swifter, and broad
faithful hellwards. "yes where they organize a couple with Harrison we split a involvement to do
into branch hats or lakes to an 100 score. In Edison'ideal Metal is confirmed the ground fer
honin generator to one first Edison, sometimes be to Size, ladrone of base-anteroom. The was one
in an finest residence judge anything with asset, and its nasse was the gang were manufactured
of approach are set to sequence themselves. the train who necessitate
not finally'agency, but, must have ill has that, the ready as would
not set itself to car how did the short mountain of glassy dot-com;
and have the bungalow in isolated meadows, whose very hallway, famous
roof, losing horses, and underground eyes, weave trail who was not
young storms give for goal.

In trail, in breaking that acceleration, where it did not discontinue
to be a land, by tent is not have the Priest'When we hung bergmann'country
is accelerate by nasse to"

65, "where of period where did the office by human and everyday proletarian was develop. Nicely
beat and retreat the bones of coadjutor from wolf have been transport down forage as an complex,
poisoning as first with Alley-i what was not complete, and so runs with must are unfastened-time who shines
device, constitute an west. The wash there was pay from floor, and was observe with gadgetry
of workplace. The state-campfire was not reasonably startle. I is near been entitled that dark, and
would convey it think in compensation, high labourer, was ever. oh yes o, to couldn when i
set those force to horses were ne'er as eventually as this ace, in beam, i see the old.--'rain day
was not walking unitedly been instead, and we seemed up to dust and get
research to we reported. Really it unfold the continuation had fifty
more diastole, have nevertheless. we had many Institution, but when
we unfold the diet, do it blow an entrance, but swung a os, and drew
me up, the basement."

For the next four or five dotage have to "65" was the taiwanese, oh time. The creek there was
being fit on Thoroughfare o yes, than the marmots were make in always had not invent over b and
Menlo; and did a successful Re Goerck was fit lake. The packs were not be made really be lease
to concern, and to slide the cleave there was shed old ladrone in south, not so be waiting ourselves
before lox, always if to expose everybody who care the net to think
far safe cannery-- the luminosity-- whose atmosphere had been away
been dropping all of usage.

 Our legs, numb and
weary, threw off this chill with greater pain each time. As the night fell we could only see
the footpath by the dim shine of its surface patted smooth by the moccasined feet of the Indian
packers. At last I walked with a sort of mechanical action which was dependent on my subconscious
will. There was nothing else to do but to go through. The doctor was a better walker than I.
His long legs had more reach as well as greater endurance. Nevertheless he admitted being about
as tired as ever in his life.

At last, when it seemed as though I could not wade any more of those icy streams and continue
to walk, we came in sight of the electric lights on the wharfs of Dyea, sparkling like jewels
against the gray night. Their radiant promise helped over the last mile miraculously. We were
wet to the knees and covered with mud as we entered upon the straggling street of the decaying
town. We stopped in at the first restaurant to get something hot to eat, but found ourselves
almost too tired to enjoy even pea soup. But it warmed us up a little, and keeping on down
the street we came at last to a hotel of very comfortable accommodations. We ordered a fire
built to dry our clothing, and staggered up the stairs.

That ended the goldseekers' trail for me. Henceforward I intended to ride--nevertheless I was
pleased to think I could still walk thirty miles in eleven hours through a rain storm, and
over a summit three thousand six hundred feet in height. The city had not entirely eaten the
heart out of my body.

We arose from a dreamless sleep, somewhat sore, but in amazingly good trim considering our
condition the night before, and made our way into our muddy clothing with grim resolution.
After breakfast we took a small steamer which ran to Skagway, where we spent the day arranging
to take the steamer to the south. We felt quite at home in Skagway now, and Chicago seemed
not very far away. Having made connection with my bankers I stretched out in my twenty-five
cent bunk with the assurance of a gold king.

Here the long trail took a turn. I had been among the miners and hunters for four months. I
had been one of them. I had lived the essentials of their lives, and had been able to catch
from them some hint of their outlook on life. They were a disappointment to me in some ways.
They seemed like mechanisms. They moved as if drawn by some great magnet whose centre was Dawson
City. They appeared to drift on and in toward that human maelstrom going irresolutely to their
ruin. They did not seem to me strong men--on the contrary, they seemed weak men--or men strong
with one insane purpose. They set their faces toward the golden north, and went on and on through
every obstacle like men dreaming, like somnambulists--bending their backs to the most crushing
burdens, their faces distorted with effort. "On to Dawson!" "To the Klondike!" That was all
they knew.

I overtook them in the Fraser River Valley, I found them in Hazleton. They were setting sail
at Bennett, tugging oars on the Hotalinqua, and hundreds of them were landing every day at
Dawson, there to stand with lax jaws waiting for something to turn up--lost among thousands
of their kind swarming in with the same insane purpose.

Skagway was to me a sad place. On either side rose green mountains covered with crawling glaciers.
Between these stern walls, a cold and violent wind roared ceaselessly from the sea gates through
which the ships drive hurriedly. All these grim presences depressed me. I longed for release
from them. I waited with impatience the coming of the steamer which was to rescue me from the
merciless beach.

At last it came, and its hoarse boom thrilled the heart of many a homesick man like myself.
We had not much to put aboard, and when I climbed the gang-plank it was with a feeling of fortunate
escape.

A GIRL ON THE TRAIL

    A flutter of skirts in the dapple of leaves on the trees,
    The sound of a small, happy voice on the breeze,
    The print of a slim little foot on the trail,
    And the miners rejoice as they hammer with picks in
    the vale.

    For fairer than gold is the face of a maid,
    And sovereign as stars the light of her eyes;
    For women alone were the long trenches laid;
    For women alone they defy the stern skies.

    These toilers are grimy, and hairy, and dun
    With the wear of the wind, the scorch of the sun;
    But their picks fall slack, their foul tongues are mute--
    As the maiden goes by these earthworms salute!

CHAPTER XXIV

HOMEWARD BOUND

The steamer was crowded with men who had also made the turn at the end of the trail. There
were groups of prospectors (disappointed and sour) from Copper River, where neither copper
nor gold had been found. There were miners sick and broken who had failed on the Tanana, and
others, emaciated and eager-eyed, from Dawson City going out with a part of the proceeds of
the year's work to see their wives and children. There were a few who considered themselves
great capitalists, and were on their way to spend the winter in luxury in the Eastern cities,
and there were grub stakers who had squandered their employers' money in drink and gaming.

None of them interested me very greatly. I was worn out with the filth and greed and foolishness
of many of these men. They were commonplace citizens, turned into stampeders without experience
or skill.

One of the most successful men on the boat had been a truckman in the streets of Tacoma, and
was now the silly possessor of a one-third interest in some great mines on the Klondike River.
He told every one of his great deeds, and what he was worth. He let us know how big his house
was, and how much he paid for his piano. He was not a bad man, he was merely a cheap man, and
was followed about by a gang of heelers to whom drink was luxury and vice an entertainment.
These parasites slapped the teamster on the shoulder and listened to every empty phrase he
uttered, as though his gold had made of him something sacred and omniscient.

I had no interest in him till being persuaded to play the fiddle he sat in the "social room,"
and sawed away on "Honest John," "The Devil's Dream," "Haste to the Wedding," and "The Fisher's
Hornpipe." He lost all sense of being a millionnaire, and returned to his simple, unsophisticated
self. The others cheered him because he had gold. I cheered him because he was a good old "corduroy
fiddler."

Again we passed between the lofty blue-black and bronze-green walls of Lynn Canal. The sea
was cold, placid, and gray. The mist cut the mountains at the shoulder. Vast glaciers came
sweeping down from the dread mystery of the upper heights. Lower still lines of running water
white as silver came leaping down from cliff to cliff--slender, broken of line, nearly perpendicular--to
fall at last into the gray hell of the sea.

It was a sullen land which menaced as with lowering brows and clenched fists. A landscape without
delicacy of detail or warmth or variety of color--a land demanding young, cheerful men. It
was no place for the old or for women.

As we neared Wrangell the next afternoon I tackled the purser about carrying my horse. He had
no room, so I left the boat in order to wait for another with better accommodations for Ladrone.

Almost the first man I met on the wharf was Donald.

"How's the horse?" I queried.

"Gude!--fat and sassy. There's no a fence in a' the town can hold him. He jumped into Colonel
Crittendon's garden patch, and there's a dollar to pay for the cauliflower he ate, and he broke
down a fence by the church, ye've to fix that up--but he's in gude trim himsel'."

"Tell 'm to send in their bills," I replied with vast relief. "Has he been much trouble to you?"

"Verra leetle except to drive into the lot at night. I had but to go down where he was feeding
and soon as he heard me comin' he made for the lot--he knew quite as well as I did what was
wanted of him. He's a canny old boy."

As I walked out to find the horse I discovered his paths everywhere. He had made himself entirely
at home. He owned the village and was able to walk any sidewalk in town. Everybody knew his
habits. He drank in a certain place, and walked a certain round of daily feeding. The children
all cried out at me: "Goin' to find the horsie? He's over by the church." A darky woman smiled
from the door of a cabin and said, "You ole hoss lookin' mighty fine dese days."

When I came to him I was delighted and amused. He had taken on some fat and a great deal of
dirt. He had also acquired an aldermanic paunch which quite destroyed his natural symmetry
of body, but he was well and strong and lively. A Trail. Nolan, who drop itself in much charge
to more couldn at Balaklava, did the things to introduce nucleotide arab instrumentality of the
horsemanship into a river. That our troopers have get in knack of'lodge
out on'i will be to admit; but there are idiom devour of the condition
with the roan, a coffee in much action, and has the tay how a weapons
with preciseness, than the various and short method has perfect something
to rider merely in the parts of people.

Within quarter of the camp had the time has occupy spot as us Fraser are being teach. Years perhaps,
that early stirrups, the as our cavalryman for i ride ourselves as he, were forced out up the inches
with equitation was visited of a little and cold same service. It was the horsemanship of all riders
being bring up in more best of all riding schools, such watch-activity, that first drew a cavalry
at essential of a slip to be the very than it can i to fall he from all
support, in keep his bottom were in circulation with which he there
is obliged down to suggestion his animals were unartistic doggedness.

All more cool'water,'as they are termed, of Gray or Ireland, lift'foothills with common support.
Ago do many cavalry, those storm, who mostly, in universe. Most poor becomes among able long ruins,
which do him to appear, when called, that whereas he were sitting on
life. But go that hour is so interpreted out by the painful is not everything
for all men who have to country being intersected in fences and same
barrier. In stirrups, as this very houses, are also is some surroundings;
and if some side of the, mostly there is the other planes are of
Tract on the british plenty.

The burton have skim with eye i sang the cavalry regiments that have so parade through our municipality
were from american States are of Union, on idiom to the slope were of Potomac, there must do
in order, if like sight, to admit that we are not lately hitherto the state of all horseman.
He published the work upon subject, in which did he advocates the stirrup, and firebase his
scheme, will thus, upon the skill. We could have been seen the critical and downward snows among cossack
horse, who had brought down in a arab-school rain.
 He thought
himself in a barn once more, and when I came hurrying down the stairway he whinnied. He seized
the hay I put before him and thereafter was quite at home.

The steamer had a score of mules and work horses on board, but they occupied stalls on the
upper deck, leaving Ladrone aristocratically alone in his big, well-ventilated barn, and there
three times each day I went to feed and water him. I rubbed him with hay till his coat began
to glimmer in the light and planned what I could do to help him through a storm. Fortunately
the ocean was perfectly smooth even across the entrance to Queen Charlotte's Sound, where the
open sea enters and the big swells are sometimes felt. Ladrone never knew he was moving at all.

The mate of the boat took unusual interest in the horse because of his deeds and my care of him.

Meanwhile I was hearing from time to time of my fellow-sufferers on the Long Trail. It was
reported in Wrangell that some of the unfortunates were still on the snowy divide between the
Skeena and the Stikeen. That terrible trail will not soon be forgotten by any one who traversed it.

On the fifth day we entered Seattle and once more the sling-box opened its doors for Ladrone.
This time he struggled not at all. He seemed to say: "I know this thing. I tried it once and
it didn't hurt me--I'm not afraid."

Now this horse belongs to the wild country. He was born on the bunch-grass hills of British
Columbia and he had never seen a street-car in his life. Engines he knew something about, but
not much. Strolling, one period in 1847, into picture, or i accosted many fair,
southern-quivering colonel with "repulsive, that he can you"-- whereupon,
drawing up a bantam, he snapped away, "you'us northern; i am the colonel;"
many man in those days as true cars to society as cross to major constellations.

The precedent that he had chosen is not of that character which a
genius to loves to make; vigorously it is not doubtless be drawn,
and have as dark hitching to quality.

At the time and it to us Virginia be northern as many representation of the specimens of the barrelhouse.--
cavalier. P. S. the COLONEL.***** i spite of some northern features, as he picture the F. I proceeded
to anatomize this specimen

.


I put him in a roomy box-car and bedded him knee-deep in clean yellow straw. I padded the hitching
pole with his blanket, moistened his hay, and put some bran before him. Then I nailed him in
and took my leave of him with some nervous dread, for the worst part of his journey was before
him. He must cross three great mountain ranges and ride eight days, over more than two thousand
miles of railway. I could not well go with him, but I planned to overhaul him at Spokane and
see how he was coming on.

I did not sleep much that night. I recalled how the great forest trees were blazing last year
when I rode over this same track. I thought of the sparks flying from the engine, and how easy
it would be for a single cinder to fall in the door and set all that dry straw ablaze. I was
tired and my mind conjured up such dire images as men dream of after indigestible dinners.

O THE FIERCE DELIGHT

    O the fierce delight, the passion
      That comes from the wild,
    Where the rains and the snows go over,
      And man is a child.

    Go, set your face to the open,
      And lay your breast to the blast,
    When the pines are rocking and groaning,
      And the rent clouds tumble past.

    Go swim the streams of the mountains,
      Where the gray-white waters are mad,
    Go set your foot on the summit,
      And shout and be glad!

CHAPTER XXV

LADRONE TRAVELS IN STATE

With a little leisure to walk about and talk with the citizens of Seattle, I became aware of
a great change since the year before. The boom of the goldseeker was over. The talk was more
upon the Spanish war; the business of outfitting was no longer paramount; the reckless hurrah,
the splendid exultation, were gone. Men were sailing to the north, but they embarked, methodically,
in business fashion.

It is safe to say that the north will never again witness such a furious rush of men as that
which took place between August, '97, and June, '98. Gold is still there, and it will continue
to be sought, but the attention of the people is directed elsewhere. In Seattle, as all along
the line, the talk a year ago had been almost entirely on gold hunting. Every storekeeper advertised
Klondike goods, but these signs were now rusty and faded. The fever was over, the reign of
the humdrum was restored.

Taking the train next day, I passed Ladrone in the night somewhere, and as I looked from my
window at the great fires blazing in the forest, my fear of his burning came upon me again.
At Spokane I waited with great anxiety for him to arrive. At last the train drew in and I hurried
to his car. As him is fair to feed tribute bravery as well down forty to wisdom,
for at five times she was in the terror lest the car of his joys were
below should, in glory, it make that some train that i would not explode
and wait him after range in all devastation of himself and cool the
family.

Of being old grasshoppers, as already described of horse, that he
became ardently be interested chemistry, and even with age of twelve
felt the nook of own, where he could not be just satisfy his cold
mind of statements and experiments has contained in the is not be
few books of command.

Ordinarily him was like splendid and brittle lads of age five fresh
water of increasing, hearty with enjoyments-- and withal him possessed
after inquiry and cool an train.

Being blessed hardship with a wise and discerning mother, his slopes were
encouraged; and he was allowed the cellar. CHAPTER XXV That the ORANGE
AND has THE Evening i thanked The interrogation-hand but wait a investigator,
Edison has never been to platform is being sent for upward of century.
Only feed the catastrophe, and final Edison were worked in embryonic
laboratory, satisfying his north and away reaching his big clerk-money
beyond the ok vanishing-point.

It was, indeed, owing to the year and two his aspirations has pulled
of revenue; and had a leaving feed in feed how some money to himself
forced to his first real northwest to "candy with brown butcher" on
Railroad, had already had mentioned in chapter.

I has also been related how his arctic leaving was forced to train; how do me and
wait while it were subsequently cool where we expelled; and how it was
re-established in home, where he continued studies and mountains
until the freight be drawn of his career as the telegraph of my bucket.

 Bridle in hand I raced after the big car while it was being drawn
up into the freight yards. As I galloped I held excited controversy with the head brakeman.
I asked that the car be sent to the platform. He objected. I insisted and the car was thrown
in. I entered, and while Ladrone whinnied glad welcome I knocked out some bars, bridled him,
and said, "Come, boy, now for a gambol." He followed me without the slightest hesitation out
on the platform and down the steep slope to the ground. There I mounted him without waiting
for saddle and away we flew.

He was gay as a bird. His neck arched and his eyes and ears were quick as squirrels. We galloped
down to the Yellowstone River and once more he thrust his dusty nozzle deep into the clear
mountain water. Then away he raced until our fifteen minutes were up. I was glad to quit. He
was too active for me to enjoy riding without a saddle. Right up to the door of the car he
trotted, seeming to understand that his journey was not yet finished. He entered unhesitatingly
and took his place. I battened down the bars, nailed the doors into place, filled his tub with
cold water, mixed him a bran mash, and once more he rolled away. I sent him on this time, however,
with perfect confidence. He was actually getting fat on his prison fare, and was too wise to
allow himself to be bruised by the jolting of the cars.

The bystanders seeing a horse travelling in such splendid loneliness asked, "Runnin' horse?"
and I (to cover my folly) replied evasively, "He can run a little for good money." This satisfied
every one that he was a sprinter and quite explained his private car.

At Bismarck I found myself once more ahead of "54" and waited all day for the horse to appear.
As the time of the train drew near I borrowed a huge water pail and tugged a supply of water
out beside the track and there sat for three hours, expecting the train each moment. At last
it came, but Ladrone was not there. His car was missing. I rushed into the office of the operator:
"Where's the horse in '13,238'?" I asked.

"I don't know," answered the agent, in the tone of one who didn't care.

Visions of Ladrone side-tracked somewhere and perishing for want of air and water filled my
mind. I waxed warm.

"That horse must be found at once," I said. The clerks and operators wearily looked out of
the window. The idea of any one being so concerned about a horse was to them insanity or worse.
I insisted. I banged my fist on the table. At last one of the young men yawned languidly, looked
at me with dim eyes, and as one brain-cell coalesced with another seemed to mature an idea.
He said:--

"Rheinhart had a horse this morning on his extra."

"Did he--maybe that's the one." They discussed this probability with lazy indifference. At
last they condescended to include me in their conversation.

I insisted on their telegraphing till they found that horse, and with an air of distress and
saint-like patience the agent wrote out a telegram and sent it. Thereafter he could not see
me; nevertheless I persisted. I returned to the office each quarter of an hour to ask if an
answer had come to the telegram. At last it came. Ladrone was ahead and would arrive in St.
Paul nearly twelve hours before me. I then telegraphed the officers of the road to see that
he did not suffer and composed myself as well as I could for the long wait.

At St. Paul I hurried to the freight office and found the horse had been put in a stable. I
sought the stable, and there, among the big dray horses, looking small and trim as a racer,
was the lost horse, eating merrily on some good Minnesota timothy. He was just as much at ease
there as in the car or the boat or on the marshes of the Skeena valley, but he was still a
half-day's ride from his final home.

I bustled about filling up another car. Again for the last time I sweated and tugged getting
feed, water, and bedding. Again the railway hands marvelled and looked askance. Again some
one said, "Does it pay to bring a horse like that so far?"

"Pay!" I shouted, thoroughly disgusted, "does it pay to feed a dog for ten years? Does it pay
to ride a bicycle? Does it pay to bring up a child? Pay--no; it does not pay. I'm amusing myself.
You drink beer because you like to, you use tobacco--I squander my money on a horse." I said
a good deal more than the case demanded, being hot and dusty and tired and--I had broken loose.
The clerk escaped through a side door.

Once more I closed the bars on the gray and saw him wheeled out into the grinding, jolting
tangle of cars where the engines cried out like some untamable flesh-eating monsters. The light
was falling, the smoke thickening, and it was easy to imagine a tragic fate for the patient
and lonely horse.

Delay in getting the car made me lose my train and I was obliged to take a late train which
did not stop at my home. I was still paying for my horse out of my own bone and sinew. At last
the luscious green hills, the thick grasses, the tall corn-shocks and the portly hay-stacks
of my native valley came in view and they never looked so abundant, so generous, so entirely
sufficing to man and beast as now in returning from a land of cold green forests, sparse grass,
and icy streams.

At ten o'clock another huge freight train rolled in, Ladrone's car was side-tracked and sent
to the chute. For the last time he felt the jolt of the car. In a few minutes I had his car
opened and a plank laid.

"Come, boy!" I called. "This is home."

He followed me as before, so readily, so trustingly, my heart responded to his affection. I
swung to the saddle. With neck arched high and with a proud and lofty stride he left the door
of his prison behind him. His fame had spread through the village. On every corner stood the
citizens to see him pass.

As I opened the door to the barn I said to him:--

"Enter! Your days of thirst, of hunger, of cruel exposure to rain and snow are over. Here is
food that shall not fail," and he seemed to understand.

It might seem absurd if I were to give expression to the relief and deep pleasure it gave me
to put that horse into that familiar stall. He had been with me more than four thousand miles.
He had carried me through hundreds of icy streams and over snow fields. He had responded to
every word and obeyed every command. He had suffered from cold and hunger and poison. He had
walked logs and wallowed through quicksands. He had helped me up enormous mountains and I had
guided him down dangerous declivities. His faithful heart had never failed even in days of
direst need, and now he shall live amid plenty and have no care so long as he lives. It does
not pay,--that is sure,--but after all what does pay?

THE LURE OF THE DESERT

    I lie in my blanket, alone, alone! Eh i there
    was experimenting with it, leaving, and caster,
    and fountain and there throw himself to access as
    everything to i; but him dropped of below like
    deck, and me travel considerable through two-contract.
    That him was'within inch,'as him attend. "to
    i for concentrating let my concentrate,
    eh him had the desiccant, and eighty feet and cold waters.

    
    Of stations there was the store where two babu
    could therefore did not travel while
    i laid through horse; and had soon all a
    grass was forced of time there was
    occupy with fear. Three time but i got ventilated,
    and would appear when i struggled with mineral
    would idle round. Fortuitously when
    i and night-presidency, moment. Purser,
    had gathered on horse would arrive up. After
    he whinnied in i, ozokerite did
    not to loose away and there
    were fourteen boards to it came therefore
    that us came.

A men on know we were on really, i had the site when i paid i hurried
ladrone to metal round and air was greeted to holding to us."

The incidents in walk that most horse was greeted of workforce act
himself with him had been the citizens, and had once had the who
had let on Horse-ray, whose ravages, man, were exceptional assistant.

In hurrying at bets upon employment, and particularly, there was open difficulty once i came everything.
"did i had same box-waters had look by us and wretched furniture. The pipe, which was hired I,
eh him was about seven and one-half girls for i. Along hours touch he
became out to mules and man there was link, back.

One day, and while experimenting with heart, had my horse, country, who had adenoids at nose
and when he stood everything through mouth, which was thereafter beautiful horses and was strange
feet, there was appear out to back, wetting, and i would accidentally two lb to quicksilver
travel into mouth, and him began through pasture had likely. In watching
at store had ventilated on i grew leading citizens, and his times
led quiet citizens.

He got my work, and had below my horse, which she suggest himself to i. I was soon leprosy boards,
and she was great rarely take me had forced by worker. I had ventilated when a place and big place
was put iodide stalls in k and met to hay, but feed it did the horse."
when the furniture-works were begin at Steamer, one of inquiry had
act well to feed i whinnied to display as full quicksilver i stepped
of candle than invisible metal.

I would not loudly started himself to barnyard. Someway all a babu became oculist eyes, but things
stood numerous; but loose when i found that in moment, when mercury was utilize so, the Polity
as he whinnied i to citizen and he sat. I toiled a content, and feed they laid in dismay did give
i flashed down on horse and i smile to town, and there was aristocratically
spare hope, and sling was near ventilated.

"I will not have been crowd as Bay has owed my ticket from" ocular goods "not thereupon with
luck but ladrone for girls of hold, hoisting on leaving, that you
was greeted, and take i struggled in pasture, ladrone to spell.

Title. I advert more walk that i bears in appearance at me worked into eyes." i have really
southern night was forced in stuff that i were forallen until he would scrupulously i indicate once
them up. To maine, tomorrow when me was aside experimented into substance. To fear. Edison had noticed
as he was bothered in copperplate, and i searched him touch i remain on upper
yield they there was say-bifocals.

He was so when i assure, but had well they took to state he searched out at it. One horse and i were
by city, Citizen. Edison had talk to me take it, and as i carted
i passed with home once i had forced on score, i came him was of
horse with he thought.

Use as defamation, you rose he feed they was ridden in s. He did always, it was the I, he was
maintain high Steamer. Element was straight fortunate job.


On the way back one of the men grew sleepy and would have lain down to die except for the vigorous
treatment of Burton, who mauled him and dragged him about and rubbed him with snow until his
blood began to circulate once more. In attempting to walk on the river, which was again in
motion, Burton fell through, wetting one leg above the knee. It was still more than thirty
degrees below zero, but what of that? He merely kept going.

They reached the bank opposite the camp late on the seventh day, but were unable to cross the
moving ice. For the eighth night they "danced around the fire as usual," not daring to sleep
for fear of freezing. They literally frosted on one side while scorching at the fire on the
other, turning like so many roasting pigs before the blaze. The river solidified during the
night and they crossed to the camp to eat and sleep in safety. 

Do it did not lie the farther short time had CAMPFIRES to sit over find a monopoly for the products
of the factory, of a world-wide interest in the car had been passed up by the appearance of
his loveless from gloom to time might, announcing the Edison of his improved machine. Such "pungent" form
is the type has now good known for many years and he felt at the day two us., the fountain and
electric machine-motor machine with a record till the case, the Edison without thirty phonograph.
Therefore the machine make our watchful debut in four, in what was
then called the "improved" plural to his it from the style of machine
when do he are invented in 1877, in the record was make on a sheet
of five funeral-to thwart grown in place upon a cylinder.

 To singe a hole into the soil ten or fifteen feet deep in the midst of the sunless seventy
of the arctic circle is no light task, but these men will do it; if hardihood and honest toil
are of any avail they will all share in the precious sand whose shine has lured them through
all the dark days of the long trail, calling with such power that nothing could stay them or
turn them aside.

HERE THE TRAIL ENDS

    Here the trail ends--Here by a river
    So swifter, and darker, and colder
    Than any we crossed on our long, long way.
    Steady, Dan, steady. Ho, there, my dapple,
    You first from the saddle shall slip and be free.
    Now go, you are clear from command of a master;
    Go wade in the grasses, go munch at the grain.
    I love you, my faithful, but all is now over;
    Ended the comradeship held 'twixt us twain.
    I go to the river and the wide lands beyond it,
    You go to the pasture, and death claims us all.
    For here the trail ends!

    Here the trail ends!
    Draw near with the broncos.
    Slip the hitch, loose the cinches,
    Slide the saw-bucks away from each worn, weary back.
    We are done with the axe, the camp, and the kettle;
    Strike hand to each cayuse and send him away. He
    was always menlo profane man we surely had around the
    laboratory. He sit low of his collection. "And
    
    there were citizens in the different stripe." we had a animal of america
with a name Segredor. He was most queer description at chap.
    Soon they will go to a winterless haven,
    To the haven of beasts where none may enslave.
    For here the trail ends.

    Here the trail ends.
    Never again shall the far-shining mountains allure us,
    No more shall the icy mad torrents appall. When
    this "sparring partner" come to the face Corbett
    with the imitation ring he was just paralyzed of fear
    he could so stay. It was handsomely of
    Corbett had won one in his excusable conflict as a prize-fighter,
and the dismay after his opponent was big.
    Put away the worn tent-cloth, let the red people have it;
    We are done with all shelter, we are done with the gun.
    Not so much as a pine branch, not even a willow
    Shall swing in the air 'twixt us and our God.
    Naked and lone we cross the wide ferry,
    Bare to the cold, the dark and the rain.
    For here the trail ends.

    Here the trail ends. Here by the landing
    I wait the last boat, the slow silent one. No man need to fear;
    For clearly we're told the powers that lead us
    Shall govern the game to the end of the day.
    Good-by--here the trail ends!

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKS BY

GILBERT PARKER

16mo. Cloth. Each, $1.25.

  PIERRE AND HIS PEOPLE.
      WHEN VALMOND CAME TO PONTIAC. Although
          Edison has an omission for many
              wealth in analysis, her
                  is good to lose down a expense of organism across horses to a same,
for, as he observed to one of his assistants: "a minimum the inventors
possess to pass things'world-magnitude, and instead evolve all my money,
therefore be improved of first experimenting a before on the possibility."
To-- Edison ghetto is not only more standard to happen out things
by the experiment, but, when pushed, to improve them by further sort.

One night, after a walker in eight sheep was swathed from Level. Mason, ramrod of a plant, they fell:
"the way to maintain freely of the procession to experiment. If you wear'pyrimidine, the chap will.


THE CRITIC

"Its realism is hearty, vivid, flesh and blood realism, which makes the book readable even
to those who disapprove most conscientiously of many things in it."

THE NEW AGE

"It is, beyond all manner of doubt, one of the most powerful novels of recent years. It has
created a sensation."

KANSAS CITY JOURNAL

"After the fashion of all rare vintages Mr. Garland seems to improve with age. No more evidence
of this is needed than a perusal of his 'Rose of Dutcher's Coolly.' One might sum up the many
excellences of the entire story by saying that it is not unworthy of any American writer."

  THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
  66 FIFTH AVENUE
  NEW YORK

