The words of this third "particular" are almost (not quite) accurate. Yet they appear to us
like special pleading. They would have been strictly correct if they had run as follows: "These
Churches are all (why say, 'three at least'?) organized according to (not 'under'--see pages
28-30) the Constitution of our Church. Such are the facts. It would have been better if the
Committee had so stated them. The effort is now made to divide these churches, and make three
of them a part of the Dutch Church in America.

There is one more paragraph in the report of the Committee which demands notice. It is:

"Your Committee can easily understand how reluctantly our Missionaries may have been, or may
still be, to disturb, or alter, or modify the relations of the Churches at Amoy. But they conceive
it to be their duty to say that feeling should never be allowed to take the place of conscience,
nor to discharge its functions; and so long as our Missionaries claim to be subordinate to
the authority of General Synod, they should allow this body to assume the responsibility of
its chosen and deliberate policy."

It seems to us the Committee are not much more fortunate on the subject of casuistry, than
on Church "government" and "historic facts." The Missionaries do "claim to be subordinate to
the authority of General Synod," but they also claim to be subordinate to the Supreme authority.
Now suppose--we shall not be charged with insubordination for the mere supposition--suppose
the Synod, through some misapprehension, should direct us to pursue a course, which, after
the most mature reflection, we felt to be injurious to the cause of Christ, and consequently
contrary to His will--will the fact of the Synod "assuming the responsibility" clear our skirts?
Who is the Lord of conscience? General Synod? It seems to us, while the Committee conceive
it to be their duty to deliver to the Missionaries at Amoy a lecture on the importance of giving
heed to conscience, in the very same sentence they direct us to hold conscience in abeyance.
But where did the Committee learn that their Missionaries were influenced by feelings and not
by conscience, and that too in reference to the laying of the foundation of the Church of Christ
in such an empire as that of China; that they felt called upon in this solemn manner to deliver
such a lecture? Would such a reflection have been cast on any other body of ministers in our
Church? or is it supposed that men who give themselves to the work of preaching the gospel
in heathen lands are less under the influence of conscience than those who remain at home?
They conceived it to be their duty! Was it?

So much for the Report of the Committee of Synod. The decision of Synod has been given, as
stated above. The important question now is, what will be the result of this decision on the
Church at Amoy? This question, however, cannot yet be answered with certainty, for we cannot
yet even guess what course the Missionaries there, when they learn the decision of Synod, will
feel it their duty to pursue. There may be more, but I can now only think of three ways open
before them. (1.) To ask the Board to recall them. They firmly believe that their course of
proceeding, in organizing the Church at Amoy, is not only in accordance with the teachings
of the Holy Scriptures, but also with the principles of our Church. To be the instruments,
then, of dividing the Church, which God has gathered by their hands, may be to sin against
their consciences. They may therefore ask the Board to appoint other agents to carry out the
decision of Synod. This would not be insubordination, but perfect subordination both to the
authority of Synod and also to that authority which all Protestant Christians acknowledge to
be supreme. This, I suppose, would be the most natural course for the brethren to take, except
for one consideration; that is, their love for the Churches gathered by them, or under their
care, and their responsibility in reference to the spiritual welfare of those disciples of
the Lord. It would be the severest trial they have ever been called on to endure to be recalled
from their work. Therefore (2.) They may delay their action, making one more effort to get
their views published, hoping that the Church will yet change her decision, and not require
of them to engage in a proceeding which they think will be so injurious to the cause of Christ;
but, on the contrary, will approve of the course heretofore adopted by them as altogether scriptural,
and the true doctrine of our Church. Or (3.) They may possibly, after mature reflection, think
the least evil will be to carry out the decision of Synod, although that decision be altogether
contrary to their own judgment. Then they will take three of the six churches, which now are
all of our order, and organize these three a separate Denomination and an integral part of
the Church in America. This is the course which at home will be generally expected of them.

Now let us suppose that they will adopt this third course, and then let us look calmly at its
results--at the supposed or real advantages thereof, and the supposed or real evils thereof.

We first look at the Advantages.

1. The highest practical court of appeal for the native churches can be secured only on the
plan for which the Missionaries contend. Why must we deprive the native Christians of the benefit
of the collective wisdom of all the churches of like doctrine and order among them?

As regards orthodoxy and good order, it is incumbent on the Church at home to use her utmost
endeavors to secure these. Doubtless this was the great design of Synod, both in the action
of 1857 and in the action of 1863. But will the plan of Synod give us any greater security
for these things? How can they be secured? We answer, under God, only through your Missionaries.
The greater your hold on your Missionaries, the better security for the churches under their
care. The plan of Synod would place your Missionaries ecclesiastically almost beyond your control.
They must be dismissed from the various Classes in this country, and, together with the native
churches under their care, form themselves into a Chinese Classis. Either they will have a
controlling influence over the native portion of this Classis or they will not. If they have,
then your only way to discipline them will be to discipline their Classis. It would be a new
doctrine in our Church, to make the Board of Foreign Missions an ecclesiastical medium between
the Synod and one of its Classes, or to enforce discipline over the ministry by the money rod.
The Classis, as such, must be disciplined by the direct act of Synod. Or, suppose the Missionaries
do not have such controlling influence over the native members of Classis, for the native members
will outnumber, and, unless the action of Synod (as we greatly fear) seriously retard the work
at Amoy, will very soon greatly outnumber the Missionaries. What then? Your Missionaries are
under the ecclesiastical control of the native converts. Their doctrines and morals are to
be decided on by a court composed mainly of recent converts from heathenism. The only way to
bring them before the higher courts in this country, is through this native court, as we have
already seen, almost an impossibility. Is it not plain that the Church at home will not thus
have a moiety of the control over her Missionaries she now has? Is this the way to keep the
Church at Amoy sound and pure? It seems to be supposed by some that the Missionaries desire
to be separated from the control of the Church at home. This is altogether a mistake, and another
result of withholding their views from the public. They have no such desire. The contrary is
altogether the fact. They do not desire to be placed under the control of the native Chinese
churches. They did not derive their authority from those churches, they are not sustained by
them, and they are in no sense their agents, but they derive their authority through, are sustained
by, and are altogether the agents of the Church in this country; therefore the Church at home
has and should retain control over them. They are amenable to the Church at home, through their
several Classes. These are the only courts qualified to take cognizance of their doctrines
and morals. They desire to remain in this relation. We think they have a right to demand this,
until such time as they become agents of the Church in China, instead of the Church in America.

Suppose by some means suspicion should arise at home concerning the orthodoxy or morality of
one or more of your Missionaries. On the plan proposed, what can the Church do with them? May
the Board of Missions, on mere report or suspicion, recall them without giving them a proper
trial? Can the Board try them? No. It is not an ecclesiastical court. Will the Church be satisfied
with the decision of a court, a majority of whose members have recently been converted from
heathenism through the instrumentality of these very Missionaries? But continue the plan of
the Missionaries and all will be simple. If any of the Missionaries give occasion for suspicion,
let them be tried by their proper Classes in this country. This is all that the Church at home
can do ecclesiastically towards keeping the Church pure in China. Whether the proposed nominal
union be consummated or not, the only hold you will have on the Chinese churches will be through
your Missionaries. If they will not receive the instructions, and listen to the advice of your
Missionaries and of the Synod through them, you would not expect them to obey the injunctions
of Synod. Your only other resort will be to withhold from them help. Can you not do the same now?

But in all this discussion, I fear, we lose sight too much of our dependence on the Head of
the Church to keep His Church pure. It is said, tell the Church that we have a flourishing
Classis at Amoy, a part of ourselves, connected with General Synod, just like all the other
Classes of our Church, the effect will be wonderful in enlisting sympathy, money, and men in
behalf of that Mission; otherwise the opposite evil must be apprehended. If these things be
so, they are indeed of grave importance. The Mission in China cannot live without the sympathy
of the Church at home. But are these things so? It seems to us that the supposition takes for
granted that our Church in its Missionary work is influenced by a desire for self-glory, or
self-gratification; or, at least, that she is not a Church of liberal views--that she is not
at all to be compared, in this respect, with the English Presbyterian Church, or the Free Church
of Scotland. Allusion has already been made to the liberality of the English Presbyterian Church.
I may now also remark that a large amount of the funds for carrying on the work at Amoy is
raised in Scotland from members of the Free Church. They never had any idea that the churches
gathered in China were to be a part of their own Church. They do not even ask that they be
a part of their sister Church in England. They only ask that they shall be sound in the faith
and hold to the essentials of Presbyterianism, even though they have some characteristics peculiar
to the Dutch and other Reformed Churches. These Presbyterian brethren in England and Scotland
are not only ready to support their own Missionaries in their work of building up the churches
under their especial care, but they stand ready to assist the Missionaries of our Church in
building up the churches under our especial care. Of their frequent offers to assist us, when
they feared we should be in want of funds, our Board can bear testimony. We are not yet willing
to believe that our people are a people of narrow views in a matter like this. It is contrary
to our history in time past. It is contrary to the facts of the present day. It is contrary
to all my observation among our churches. This must be so in the very nature of things. The
way to alienate the sympathies of the Church from the Mission at Amoy is to divide the Church
there by a sectarian policy; and the way to enlist her sympathies is to continue the former
plan, and let the work go forward with the Divine blessing as in days past. The people will
be more encouraged, and praise God more heartily, when you tell them of six organized churches
like our own, and many others growing up all around, than they will if you tell them of only
three churches, and only a few out-stations, under our care. They will not object to hear that
the English Presbyterian brethren are laboring with us, and organizing churches so nearly like
our own.

Let brethren in the Ministry try the experiment, and tell their people of the wonders of God's
grace:--that he has led his servants from our own Church in this land, and from the Presbyterian
Church in Great Britain, in their work of evangelizing the heathen, and laying the foundation
of the Church of Christ, to lay aside all national animosities, and rise above all denominational
prejudices and jealousies--that he has given to the Presbyterian Church in England, and the
sister Church in Scotland, a spirit of catholicity and liberality as exhibited in the previous
part of this paper--and that, as a consequence, he is causing his Church to grow up in the
region of Amoy in beautiful proportions, all the congregations under their care and ours also
manifesting the same spirit of catholicity and liberality, submitting to each other according
to the Divine command, working together with the utmost harmony, and, as a consequence, with
wonderful effectiveness. Can you account for such things except by the energy of the Spirit
of God? Surely it is not the spirit of the world, neither is it the spirit of the devil. Try
the experiment, then, and see whether the wonders of God's grace will alienate the hearts of
his people. Your Missionaries have no doubt--we can hardly understand how any who examine the
subject can doubt--we are sure that no one can personally behold the work and yet doubt, that
the wonderful blessing of God, which has accompanied the work at Amoy, has been both the cause
and the result of this harmonious labor on the part of your Missionaries, and those from the
sister Churches in England and Scotland. Therefore, we feel assured that the simple recital
of the grace of God thus manifested, must influence the hearts of his people most powerfully,
and therefore it is that we beseech the Church not to interfere with, and hinder the work of
God. May we not refer, without being charged with disrespect, to the Synod of Jerusalem as
a proper example for our General Synod? And then the decree, which the Synod sent to the Churches,
runs thus: "It seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than
these necessary things." The ecclesiastical "power which the Lord hath given" to his Church
is "to edification, and not to destruction."

If the Missionaries be allowed to proceed in building up a Church, like our own, simply with
reference to the evangelization of China, doubtless brethren in the ministry, and other influential
men, could take occasion therefrom to prejudice the Churches against our work. They could do
this, if they were so disposed, without any such occasion. But will they do it? We cannot believe
that they will. They love the cause of Christ too well, and desire to see the world converted
to God too ardently, to permit them to throw any obstacles in the way of our work, even though
that work be not carried forward in the manner which they consider altogether the best. If
we are right, these brethren will soon see that we are right, and however powerful the motive
to be addressed to the desire of extending our own Church, they will find infinitely more powerful
motives to be addressed to a more noble desire of the Christian heart.

3. The only other supposed advantage I can now think of, is the advantage of carrying out the
policy of our Church. This, in itself considered, might be regarded worthy of but little attention.
Cannot--ought not--the Church change her policy if wrong, or if a better can be adopted? Surely
her laws are not like those of the Medes and Persians. But the argument has been used with
so much earnestness and perseverance, both in the Reports of the Committees and in the discussions
in Synod, that it demands some investigation. Instead of the course pursued by the Missionaries
being, as it is contended, contrary to, it is the true policy of our Church--the policy in
existence long before the decision of 1857. If the course now required of them be the present
policy of our Church, it is a mistaken policy, contrary to the very genius of our institutions,
and ought to be corrected. It is so contrary to our time-honored Constitution that either it
or the Constitution must be sacrificed. In order to save the policy it was found necessary
during the past year to amend the Constitution by a clause so sweeping, that if the circumstances
of a Missionary Classis require it, "all the ordinary requirements of the Constitution" may
be dispensed with by the General Synod. Can it be that a policy which requires such constitutional
changes can be the old and proper policy of our Church? But if the policy be continued we are
not yet done with changes. The very name of our Church must be changed. It now is "The Reformed
Protestant Dutch Church in North America." We must expunge the words "in North America," or
must add India, China, and Japan, and every other country where the Church may undertake Missionary
work. We know it has been said of this policy, "it is our settled, irreversible policy." Is
every thing then to be regarded as unsettled and changeable but this policy of the Church?
We answer, No. The Church may change her name, if she please, as she has changed her Constitution.
Or she may change her policy. But there are certain fundamental principles of Church government
which she may not change. Hence, even yet, the principles for which the Missionaries contend
must remain the true policy of our Church, for they lie at the very foundation of Presbyterial
order. A full discussion of this subject will come up most naturally when we discuss the evils
of the course now required of us. I will now allude to only one fact. The Board of Foreign
Missions was formed on this principle. If the Classes at Arcot and Amoy are to be considered
integral parts of the Church in this country, related to General Synod like the Classes in
this country, then the Missionaries at those stations properly should come under the Board
of Domestic Missions. Suppose, according to the new plan, the Missionaries form themselves
into the kind of Classis now required of them; what will be the relation of the Classis of
Amoy to the Board of Foreign Missions? Is the Classis, in evangelizing the heathen around,
to operate through the Board, or the Board through the Classis? The Classis at Amoy decide
on a certain course of ecclesiastical procedure, or evangelistic labor, and the Board decides
on another course; how is such a matter to be settled? Will it be said, there is no danger
of such difficulty? The Classis and Board will both be composed of men with infirmities. Ask
the Board whether there have not already been incipient difficulties, in the supposed clashing
of the powers of the Board and the powers of the Classis of Arcot. But the Classis of Arcot
as yet is little more than an American Missionary Classis. What will be the difficulties when
it becomes an Indian Classis? But we are told, "keep the Mission and Classis distinct." Is
the Mission, then, to attend to all the evangelistic work, and the Classis to do nothing? Or
are there to be two distinct evangelistic policies carried on at Amoy, the one by the Mission,
and the other by the Classis? Or is the Classis first to come over to the Synod, and so get
to the Board in order to carry on the work around? Instead of this new plan being the settled
policy of our Church, we believe it to be a solecism. When a Church is established among the
heathen after our order, then is the true policy of our Church carried out. Let the present
relations of the Missionaries to the Board and to their several Classes remain, and there will
be no occasion for the clashing of the powers of the Board with those of any ecclesiastical body.

So much for the advantages. They are really disadvantages, leading to serious evils, which
of themselves should be sufficient to deter the Church from inaugurating the policy proposed,
or, if it be already inaugurated, to lead her to retrace her steps, and adopt a better and
a consistent policy. It will be destroying a real unity for the sake of creating one, which,
at the best, can be only nominal, and hence will really be a violation of Presbyterial order.
It seems strange to us that it should be constantly asserted that we are striving to create
a formal union between two bodies which are essentially distinct. There is nothing of the kind.
There are six organized churches at Amoy. They are all Dutch (i.e. Reformed), and they are
all Presbyterian, for the Dutch Churches are all Presbyterian. But they are Chinese, not American,
nor English, nor Scotch. If these churches are not one, then it is impossible for two or more
individual churches to be one. If schism in a Church be a sin, then the separation of this
Church will be a sin, for it will be an actual schism. You can make nothing more nor less of
it. If you say that schism is only an evil, then the separation of this Church will, at least,
be an evil.

Perhaps it will be thought that schism is too hard a term whereby to designate the separation
of the Church at Amoy. Never mind the word, then, but let us look at the facts. The proper
Classis of Amoy, composed of all the churches of like order, and of the Missionaries, has proceeded,
according to the order of our Church, to ordain and install native pastors, and to perform
a few other necessary ecclesiastical acts. These pastors are now called on to separate from,
and break up that body, through which they received their office! The opinions and wishes of
these native pastors, as well of the native Classis, and the native churches, are all ignored!
Are such things right? Are these the doctrines or policy of the Dutch Church? We are told that
we need say nothing to the native churches on the subject. Is this right? Is the Dutch Church
a hierarchy? Does the General Synod claim authority to order the division in such a manner
of a Classis of the Church of Christ without the consent of that Classis? "What God hath joined
together let not man put asunder."

In consequence of fallen humanity, there are evils which we call necessary evils. Such is the
case of different Denominations of Christians in the same region of territory. They differ
in sentiment on important (or supposed to be important) subjects, and because of this difference
in sentiment, they can work together in greater harmony, and with greater efficiency, by being
formed into distinct organizations. Such, however, is not the case of the six churches at Amoy,
and others growing up under their care and the care of your own and the English Presbyterian
Missionaries. Even when Churches agree in doctrine and order, it is sometimes better, and sometimes
necessary, in consequence of geographical separation or national distinctions, to form distinct
organizations. It is better, or necessary, that the Churches in Holland, and America, and South
Africa, be ecclesiastically distinct. We do not call this an evil, for all the advantages of
ecclesiastical courts and control are better thus secured. But suppose a case. There are, say,
thirty Dutch churches in the city of New York. Now, suppose there were no others of the same
order throughout this whole land: instead of allowing these churches to remain one organic
whole--forming Classes and Synods, as the growth and convenience may allow and direct--it is
proposed to take one-half of these churches, form them into a distinct organization, thus depriving
them of ecclesiastical relations to the other half, and attach them to an ecclesiastical body
in China--a nation of different customs and different language. How should we designate such
an act? The first part would be schism, and the last part would be folly. The only difference
between such a procedure and that required of us is, that the churches at Amoy have been gathered
partly by our instrumentality, and are dependent partly on us for instruction. If our Presbyterial
order be scriptural, all these churches at Amoy, growing out of each other, are bound to associate
together, ecclesiastically. It is their duty to submit to each other. They would also be bound
to submit to the Church of the same order in England and America, and every other country throughout
the world, if it were possible and convenient. But such relation is not convenient, or possible.
Therefore, we must choose that which is possible and most convenient. It is possible, and it
is convenient, that they associate together. It is not possible that they all be subject to
the Church in England, and, at the same time, to the Church in America. It is not convenient
that they all be subject to either of these Churches. We do not think it is convenient that
one-half of them be subject to either of these Churches. Besides the sin, or evil, of schism,
they never can be properly represented in the higher ecclesiastical bodies of either of these
Churches. They never can have an Elder present (I speak now of their connection with the Church
in America, for this is the subject before us). They never can have a full representation of
ministers. Only very seldom can they have even one minister present. He usually will only be
one who is ill, and consequently not a proper representative. The native element, i.e., the
chief element of the Church can never be represented at all. The representation, at the best,
will only be a representation of your Missionaries, not at all of the Chinese Church. Therefore,
we assert that such a union would not be real, not even apparent, only nominal. In striving
after it, we are pursuing a chimera, destroying a substance for the sake of a shadow.

But it is offered as an objection to our views, that the Presbyterian Church (O.S.) has Presbyteries
and Synods in India and China. Yes, they have three Presbyteries and a Synod in India, and
have had for twenty years. But even yet there is not so much of a native element in their whole
Synod as there is already in the little Church in the region of Amoy. As an ecclesiastical
body, it is not Indian in its characteristics--it is American. So with all their Presbyteries
in Siam and China, with the exception, perhaps, of the Presbytery at Ningpo. They are American
Presbyteries, not native in their character.[2]

[Footnote 2: The following statistics are from the Minutes of General Assembly, 1863.

Synod of Northern India--Was organized in 1841. Is composed of three Presbyteries. Now has
19 ministers (only one of these is a native pastor); 9 churches; 246 communicants. (How many
of these are natives not reported.)

Presbytery of Canton--Has 4 ministers; no native pastor; 1 church; 12 communicants. (How many
of these are natives not reported.) Presbytery of Ningpo--Has 8 ministers; no native pastor;
2 churches; 111 native members.

Presbytery of Siam--Has 6 ministers; no native pastor; 1 church; 8 communicants. (How many
of these are native members not reported.)

Presbytery of West Africa--Has 9 ministers; no native pastor; 6 churches; 191 communicants
(probably all natives.)

Are these ecclesiastical bodies respectively Indian, Chinese, and African in their character?
or are they all essentially American? Yet these are the bodies to which the Committee of General
Synod of 1857 referred when they said, "As to the difficulties suggested" Why should there
be many insuperable difficulties so long as these bodies remain American Missionary bodies,
instead of being native ecclesiastical bodies? Practically they do not need representation
in the Church at home more than our Missions need representatives in the Board of Missions.
In the aggregate of all the above-mentioned ecclesiastical missionary bodies, there is but
one native pastor, and this, as might be expected, so far as we are aware, furnished the only
case in which difficulty has occurred. Doubtless in the instance referred to, the native pastor
was in error, and, as he found some insuperable difficulty in getting his case before the General
Assembly, a similar effort is not likely soon to be made.]

So is the Classis of Arcot appealed to. Such appeals put us in a somewhat painful position.
As with the Presbyterian bodies just mentioned, so with the Classis of Arcot. We have no rivalry
with the brethren there, and do not wish to say a word that looks like stricture on their policy.
We do not utter a word of this kind, except in self-defense. We rejoice in all their successes.
But the time will come, if the blessing of God continues to follow their labors, when they
will be compelled to adopt our principles. The Missionaries at Arcot are not properly pastors
of the native churches. They exercise the pastoral office only temporarily, until native pastors
are raised up. Their relation to the Synods in this country is not like that of the other Classes
of our Church. They never have had and never will have a proper representation in these higher
courts. They have never had a native elder present. They never have even a partial representation
of ministers, except under the afflictive dispensations of Providence. For several years past
they would have been without any representation at all, but for the fact of one of their number
being in this country whose ill health forbids his return to that field of labor. It is by
being unfitted to be a member of the Classis that he becomes able to be a representative of
the Classis in the Synod! At the present time, because of the still American character of their
body, they may feel no serious inconvenience. If our position had been like theirs, occupying
the ground at Amoy alone, possibly we should have done as they have. We should have understood
well enough that the connection of the native Church with the Church at home could only be
nominal. But if our Church desired this, so long as it did not injure the native Church, we
probably should have made no objections.

But we are told that it is not desired that this connection with the Church in America should
be perpetual. It will last only until the Church at Amoy has sufficient development to stand
alone. Then, of course, our Church will consent to the separation. (A very different doctrine,
by the way, from the "assertion" of the committee of Synod that the Church can not "voluntarily
relinquish its powers.") After that, the churches at Amoy which have been under our care, and
those which have been under the care of the English Presbyterians, may again unite in one Denomination,
if they see fit. This sounds pretty well. But look at it. First separate the churches long
enough to engender rivalries and allow prejudices to grow up, and then attempt to unite them,
and what will be the result? Unless they have a more liberal spirit than is usual in the churches
in this land, instead of making one denomination out of two, we shall have three. But who shall
be the judge when the proper time has arrived to liberate the Church in China, if the opinions
of those on the ground, and of the native churches, are all to be ignored?

3. It will injure the efficiency of the Church at Amoy. Why, your Missionaries are already
frequently charged with being too liberal towards their English Presbyterian brethren in giving
to them members and churches which, it is said, properly belong to us. Their strength will
be weakened for evangelistic effort. Their Missionary efforts is one of the most striking and
praiseworthy characteristics of the Amoy churches. How will they be shorn of their strength
by division and necessary rivalry! Besides this, if the connection with the Church at home
be anything more than nominal, our churches should, in part at least, work through the Church
at home. No? Then why form the connection?

4. Instead of the Dutch Church being the Presbyterian Church at Amoy, it will only be a small
Church, bearing about the same proportion to the other Christian Churches there, that it does
to the other Churches in this land. Why is not the Dutch Church the principal Presbyterian
body in this land? Unless we are mistaken in regard to its excellency of order, it has all
the adaptedness, and it was here first. Do you wish a similar result in China? If it called
for declamation like the above, well.

Some, after reading the foregoing discussion, will be ready to say to us: "Your views are in
the main correct. It would have been better if Synod had decided otherwise, but the decision
has been made, and we must put up with it." We answer, Not so.

Appendix A.

Further to illustrate the unity of the Churches under the care of the two Missions, I will
transcribe from the Reports of the Amoy Mission, for the years 1861 and 1862.

From the Report for 1861. Dated Feb. 24. 1862.

Our work is so interwoven with that of the Missionaries of the English Presbyterian Church,
that we cannot give a full report of the state of our Churches and out-stations without including
in it a partial report of some of their stations. We have, therefore, thought it best, both
on this account, and because the Churches gathered by us and by them are really one, to give
statistics of both Missions with brief remarks. These, besides simplifying the matter, will
enable the Church at home to become better acquainted with the real progress of the cause of
Christ in this region.

Missionaries and Assistant Missionaries of the Reformed Dutch Church at Amoy, at the close
if the year 1861. [Here follow their names, and remarks concerning them.]

Missionaries and Assistant Missionaries of the English Presbyterian Church at the close of
the year 1861. [Here follow their names, and remarks concerning them.]

Tabular View of the Churches and Mission Stations under the care of the Reformed Dutch Church,
and English Presbyterian Church, in Amoy and vicinity.

