Reply Obj. 2: Union belongs to love in so far as by reason of the complacency of the appetite,
the lover stands in relation to that which he loves, as though it were himself or part of himself.
Hence it is clear that love is not the very relation of union, but that union is a result of
love. Hence, too, Dionysius says that "love is a unitive force" (Div. Nom. iv), and the Philosopher
says (Polit. ii, 1) that union is the work of love.

Reply Obj. 3: Although love does not denote the movement of the appetite in tending towards
the appetible object, yet it denotes that movement whereby the appetite is changed by the appetible
object, so as to have complacency therein.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 26, Art. 3]

Whether Love Is the Same As Dilection?

Objection 1: It would seem that love is the same as dilection. For Dionysius says (Div. Nom.
iv) that love is to dilection, "as four is to twice two, and as a rectilinear figure is to
one composed of straight lines." But these have the same meaning. Therefore love and dilection
denote the same thing.

Obj. 2: Further, the movements of the appetite differ by reason of their objects. But the objects
of dilection and love are the same. Therefore these are the same.

Obj. 3: Further, if dilection and love differ, it seems that it is chiefly in the fact that
"dilection refers to good things, love to evil things, as some have maintained," according
to Augustine (De Civ. Dei xiv, 7). But they do not differ thus; because as Augustine says (De
Civ. Dei xiv, 7) the holy Scripture uses both words in reference to either good or bad things.
Therefore love and dilection do not differ: thus indeed Augustine concludes (De Civ. Dei xiv,
7) that "it is not one thing to speak of love, and another to speak of dilection."

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "some holy men have held that love means
something more Godlike than dilection does."

I answer that, We find four words referring in a way, to the same thing: viz. love, dilection,
charity and friendship. They differ, however, in this, that "friendship," according to the
Philosopher (Ethic. viii, 5), "is like a habit," whereas "love" and "dilection" are expressed
by way of act or passion; and "charity" can be taken either way.

Moreover these three express act in different ways. For love has a wider signification than
the others, since every dilection or charity is love, but not vice versa. Because dilection
implies, in addition to love, a choice (electionem) made beforehand, as the very word denotes:
and therefore dilection is not in the concupiscible power, but only in the will, and only in
the rational nature. Charity denotes, in addition to love, a certain perfection of love, in
so far as that which is loved is held to be of great price, as the word itself implies [*Referring
to the Latin "carus" (dear)].

Reply Obj. 1: Dionysius is speaking of love and dilection, in so far as they are in the intellectual
appetite; for thus love is the same as dilection.

Reply Obj. 2: The object of love is more general than the object of dilection: because love
extends to more than dilection does, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Love and dilection differ, not in respect of good and evil, but as stated. Yet
in the intellectual faculty love is the same as dilection. And it is in this sense that Augustine
speaks of love in the passage quoted: hence a little further on he adds that "a right will
is well-directed love, and a wrong will is ill-directed love." However, the fact that love,
which is concupiscible passion, inclines many to evil, is the reason why some assigned the
difference spoken of.

Reply Obj. 4: The reason why some held that, even when applied to the will itself, the word
"love" signifies something more Godlike than "dilection," was because love denotes a passion,
especially in so far as it is in the sensitive appetite; whereas dilection presupposes the
judgment of reason. But it is possible for man to tend to God by love, being as it were passively
drawn by Him, more than he can possibly be drawn thereto by his reason, which pertains to the
nature of dilection, as stated above. And consequently love is more Godlike than dilection.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 26, Art.

Objection 1: It would seem that love is not properly divided into love of friendship and love
of concupiscence. For "love is a passion, while friendship is a habit," according to the Philosopher
(Ethic. viii, 5). But habit cannot be the member of a division of passions. Therefore love
is not properly divided into love of concupiscence and love of friendship.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing cannot be divided by another member of the same division; for man
is not a member of the same division as "animal." But concupiscence is a member of the same
division as love, as a passion distinct from love. Therefore concupiscence is not a division
of love.

Obj. 3: Further, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. viii, 3) friendship is threefold, that
which is founded on usefulness, that which is founded on pleasure, and that which is founded
on goodness. But useful and pleasant friendship are not without concupiscence. Therefore concupiscence
should not be contrasted with friendship.

On the contrary, We are said to love certain things, because we desire them: thus "a man is
said to love wine, on account of its sweetness which he desires"; as stated in Topic. ii, 3.
But we have no friendship for wine and suchlike things, as stated in Ethic. viii, 2. Therefore
love of concupiscence is distinct from love of friendship.

I answer that, As the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4), "to love is to wish good to someone."
Hence the movement of love has a twofold tendency: towards the good which a man wishes to someone
(to himself or to another) and towards that to which he wishes some good. Accordingly, man
has love of concupiscence towards the good that he wishes to another, and love of friendship
towards him to whom he wishes good.

Now the members of this division are related as primary and secondary: since that which is
loved with the love of friendship is loved simply and for itself; whereas that which is loved
with the love of concupiscence, is loved, not simply and for itself, but for something else.
For just as that which has existence, is a being simply, while that which exists in another
is a relative being; so, because good is convertible with being, the good, which itself has
goodness, is good simply; but that which is another's good, is a relative good. Consequently
the love with which a thing is loved, that it may have some good, is love simply; while the
love, with which a thing is loved, that it may be another's good, is relative love.

Reply Obj. 1: Love is not divided into friendship and concupiscence, but into love of friendship,
and love of concupiscence. For a friend is, properly speaking, one to whom we wish good: while
we are said to desire, what we wish for ourselves.

Hence the Reply to the Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: When friendship is based on usefulness or pleasure, a man does indeed wish his
friend some good: and in this respect the character of friendship is preserved. But since he
refers this good further to his own pleasure or use, the result is that friendship of the useful
or pleasant, in so far as it is connected with love of concupiscence, loses the character to
true friendship.

QUESTION 27

OF THE CAUSE OF LOVE (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the cause of love: and under this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether good is the only cause of love?

(2) Whether knowledge is a cause of love?

(3) Whether likeness is a cause of love?

(4) Whether any other passion of the soul is a cause of love?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 27, Art. 1]

Whether Good Is the Only Cause of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that good is not the only cause of love. For good does not cause
love, except because it is loved. But it happens that evil also is loved, according to Ps.
10:6: "He that loveth iniquity, hateth his own soul": else, every love would be good. Therefore
good is not the only cause of love.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4) that "we love those who acknowledge their
evils." Therefore it seems that evil is the cause of love.

Obj. 3: Further, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that not "the good" only but also "the beautiful
is beloved by all."

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. viii, 3): "Assuredly the good alone is beloved."
Therefore good alone is the cause of love.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 26, A. 1), Love belongs to the appetitive power which is
a passive faculty. Wherefore its object stands in relation to it as the cause of its movement
or act. Therefore the cause of love must needs be love's object. Now the proper object of love
is the good; because, as stated above (Q. 26, AA. 1, 2), love implies a certain connaturalness
or complacency of the lover for the thing beloved, and to everything, that thing is a good,
which is akin and proportionate to it. It follows, therefore, that good is the proper cause
of love.

Reply Obj. 1: Evil is never loved except under the aspect of good, that is to say, in so far
as it is good in some respect, and is considered as being good simply. And thus a certain love
is evil, in so far as it tends to that which is not simply a true good. It is in this way that
man "loves iniquity," inasmuch as, by means of iniquity, some good is gained; pleasure, for
instance, or money, or such like.

Reply Obj. 2: Those who acknowledge their evils, are beloved, not for their evils, but because
they acknowledge them, for it is a good thing to acknowledge one's faults, in so far as it
excludes insincerity or hypocrisy.

Reply Obj. 3: The beautiful is the same as the good, and they differ in aspect only. For since
good is what all seek, the notion of good is that which calms the desire; while the notion
of the beautiful is that which calms the desire, by being seen or known. Consequently those
senses chiefly regard the beautiful, which are the most cognitive, viz. sight and hearing,
as ministering to reason; for we speak of beautiful sights and beautiful sounds. But in reference
to the other objects of the other senses, we do not use the expression "beautiful," for we
do not speak of beautiful tastes, and beautiful odors. Thus it is evident that beauty adds
to goodness a relation to the cognitive faculty: so that "good" means that which simply pleases
the appetite; while the "beautiful" is something pleasant to apprehend.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 27, Art. 2]

Whether Knowledge Is a Cause of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that knowledge is not a cause of love. For it is due to love that
a thing is sought. But some things are sought without being known, for instance, the sciences;
for since "to have them is the same as to know them," as Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 35), if
we knew them we should have them, and should not seek them. Therefore knowledge is not the
cause of love.

Obj. 2: Further, to love what we know not seems like loving something more than we know it.
But some things are loved more than they are known: thus in this life God can be loved in Himself,
but cannot be known in Himself. Therefore knowledge is not the cause of love.

Obj. 3: Further, if knowledge were the cause of love, there would be no love, where there is
no knowledge. But in all things there is love, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv); whereas there
is not knowledge in all things. Therefore knowledge is not the cause of love.

On the contrary, Augustine proves (De Trin. x, 1, 2) that "none can love what he does not know."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), good is the cause of love, as being its object. But
good is not the object of the appetite, except as apprehended. And therefore love demands some
apprehension of the good that is loved. For this reason the Philosopher (Ethic. ix, 5, 12)
says that bodily sight is the beginning of sensitive love: and in like manner the contemplation
of spiritual beauty or goodness is the beginning of spiritual love. Accordingly knowledge is
the cause of love for the same reason as good is, which can be loved only if known.

Reply Obj. 1: He who seeks science, is not entirely without knowledge thereof: but knows something
about it already in some respect, either in a general way, or in some one of its effects, or
from having heard it commended, as Augustine says (De Trin. x, 1, 2). But to have it is not
to know it thus, but to know it perfectly.

Reply Obj. 2: Something is required for the perfection of knowledge, that is not requisite
for the perfection of love. For knowledge belongs to the reason, whose function it is to distinguish
things which in reality are united, and to unite together, after a fashion, things that are
distinct, by comparing one with another. Consequently the perfection of knowledge requires
that man should know distinctly all that is in a thing, such as its parts, powers, and properties.
On the other hand, love is in the appetitive power, which regards a thing as it is in itself:
wherefore it suffices, for the perfection of love, that a thing be loved according as it is
known in itself. Hence it is, therefore, that a thing is loved more than it is known; since
it can be loved perfectly, even without being perfectly known. This is most evident in regard
to the sciences, which some love through having a certain general knowledge of them: for instance,
they know that rhetoric is a science that enables man to persuade others; and this is what
they love in rhetoric. The same applies to the love of God.

Reply Obj. 3: Even natural love, which is in all things, is caused by a kind of knowledge,
not indeed existing in natural things themselves, but in Him Who created their nature, as stated
above (Q. 26, A. 1; cf. I, Q. 6, A. 1, ad 2).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 27, Art. 3]

Whether Likeness Is a Cause of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that likeness is not a cause of love. For the same thing is not
the cause of contraries. But likeness is the cause of hatred; for it is written (Prov. 13:10)
that "among the proud there are always contentions"; and the Philosopher says (Ethic. viii,
1) that "potters quarrel with one another." Therefore likeness is not a cause of love.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (Confess. iv, 14) that "a man loves in another that which he
would not be himself: thus he loves an actor, but would not himself be an actor." But it would
not be so, if likeness were the proper cause of love; for in that case a man would love in
another, that which he possesses himself, or would like to possess. Therefore likeness is not
a cause of love.

Obj. 3: Further, everyone loves that which he needs, even if he have it not: thus a sick man
loves health, and a poor man loves riches. But in so far as he needs them and lacks them, he
is unlike them. Therefore not only likeness but also unlikeness is a cause of love.

Obj. 4: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4) that "we love those who bestow money and
health on us; and also those who retain their friendship for the dead." But all are not such.
Therefore likeness is not a cause of love.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 13:19): "Every beast loveth its like."

I answer that, Likeness, properly speaking, is a cause of love. But it must be observed that
likeness between things is twofold. One kind of likeness arises from each thing having the
same quality actually: for example, two things possessing the quality of whiteness are said
to be alike. Another kind of likeness arises from one thing having potentially and by way of
inclination, a quality which the other has actually: thus we may say that a heavy body existing
outside its proper place is like another heavy body that exists in its proper place: or again,
according as potentiality bears a resemblance to its act; since act is contained, in a manner,
in the potentiality itself.

Accordingly the first kind of likeness causes love of friendship or well-being. For the very
fact that two men are alike, having, as it were, one form, makes them to be, in a manner, one
in that form: thus two men are one thing in the species of humanity, and two white men are
one thing in whiteness. Hence the affections of one tend to the other, as being one with him;
and he wishes good to him as to himself. But the second kind of likeness causes love of concupiscence,
or friendship founded on usefulness or pleasure: because whatever is in potentiality, as such,
has the desire for its act; and it takes pleasure in its realization, if it be a sentient and
cognitive being.

Now it has been stated above (Q. 26, A. 4), that in the love of concupiscence, the lover, properly
speaking, loves himself, in willing the good that he desires. But a man loves himself more
than another: because he is one with himself substantially, whereas with another he is one
only in the likeness of some form. Consequently, if this other's likeness to him arising from
the participation of a form, hinders him from gaining the good that he loves, he becomes hateful
to him, not for being like him, but for hindering him from gaining his own good. This is why
"potters quarrel among themselves," because they hinder one another's gain: and why "there
are contentions among the proud," because they hinder one another in attaining the position
they covet.

Hence the Reply to the First Objection is evident.

Reply Obj. 2: Even when a man loves in another what he loves not in himself, there is a certain
likeness of proportion: because as the latter is to that which is loved in him, so is the former
to that which he loves in himself: for instance, if a good singer love a good writer, we can
see a likeness of proportion, inasmuch as each one has that which is becoming to him in respect
of his art.

Reply Obj. 3: He that loves what he needs, bears a likeness to what he loves, as potentiality
bears a likeness to its act, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 4: According to the same likeness of potentiality to its act, the illiberal man
loves the man who is liberal, in so far as he expects from him something which he desires.
The same applies to the man who is constant in his friendship as compared to one who is inconstant.
For in either case friendship seems to be based on usefulness. We might also say that although
not all men have these virtues in the complete habit, yet they have them according to certain
seminal principles in the reason, in force of which principles the man who is not virtuous
loves the virtuous man, as being in conformity with his own natural reason.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 27, Art. 4]

Whether Any Other Passion of the Soul Is a Cause of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that some other passion can be the cause of love. For the Philosopher
(Ethic. viii, 3) says that some are loved for the sake of the pleasure they give. But pleasure
is a passion. Therefore another passion is a cause of love.

Obj. 2: Further, desire is a passion. But we love some because we desire to receive something
from them: as happens in every friendship based on usefulness. Therefore another passion is
a cause of love.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Trin. x, 1): "When we have no hope of getting a thing,
we love it but half-heartedly or not at all, even if we see how beautiful it is." Therefore
hope too is a cause of love.

I answer that, There is no other passion of the soul that does not presuppose love of some
kind. The reason is that every other passion of the soul implies either movement towards something,
or rest in something. Now every movement towards something, or rest in something, arises from
some kinship or aptness to that thing; and in this does love consist. Therefore it is not possible
for any other passion of the soul to be universally the cause of every love. But it may happen
that some other passion is the cause of some particular love: just as one good is the cause
of another.

Reply Obj. 1: When a man loves a thing for the pleasure it affords, his love is indeed caused
by pleasure; but that very pleasure is caused, in its turn, by another preceding love; for
none takes pleasure save in that which is loved in some way.

Reply Obj. 2: Desire for a thing always presupposes love for that thing. But desire of one
thing can be the cause of another thing's being loved; thus he that desires money, for this
reason loves him from whom he receives it.

Reply Obj. 3: Hope causes or increases love; both by reason of pleasure, because it causes
pleasure; and by reason of desire, because hope strengthens desire, since we do not desire
so intensely that which we have no hope of receiving. Nevertheless hope itself is of a good
that is loved.

QUESTION 28

OF THE EFFECTS OF LOVE (In Six Articles)

We now have to consider the effects of love: under which head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether union is an effect of love?

(2) Whether mutual indwelling is an effect of love?

(3) Whether ecstasy is an effect of love?

(4) Whether zeal is an effect of love?

(5) Whether love is a passion that is hurtful to the lover?

(6) Whether love is cause of all that the lover does?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 28, Art. 1]

Whether Union Is an Effect of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that union is not an effect of love. For absence is incompatible
with union. But love is compatible with absence; for the Apostle says (Gal. 4:18): "Be zealous
for that which is good in a good thing always" (speaking of himself, according to a gloss),
"and not only when I am present with you." Therefore union is not an effect of love.

Obj. 2: Further, every union is either according to essence, thus form is united to matter,
accident to subject, and a part to the whole, or to another part in order to make up the whole:
or according to likeness, in genus, species, or accident. But love does not cause union of
essence; else love could not be between things essentially distinct. On the other hand, love
does not cause union of likeness, but rather is caused by it, as stated above (Q. 27, A. 3).
Therefore union is not an effect of love.

Obj. 3: Further, the sense in act is the sensible in act, and the intellect in act is the thing
actually understood. But the lover in act is not the beloved in act. Therefore union is the
effect of knowledge rather than of love.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that every love is a "unitive love."

I answer that, The union of lover and beloved is twofold. The first is real union; for instance,
when the beloved is present with the lover. The second is union of affection: and this union
must be considered in relation to the preceding apprehension; since movement of the appetite
follows apprehension. Now love being twofold, viz. love of concupiscence and love of friendship;
each of these arises from a kind of apprehension of the oneness of the thing loved with the
lover. For when we love a thing, by desiring it, we apprehend it as belonging to our well-being.
In like manner when a man loves another with the love of friendship, he wills good to him,
just as he wills good to himself: wherefore he apprehends him as his other self, in so far,
to wit, as he wills good to him as to himself. Hence a friend is called a man's "other self"
(Ethic. ix, 4), and Augustine says (Confess. iv, 6), "Well did one say to his friend: Thou
half of my soul."

The first of these unions is caused effectively by love; because love moves man to desire and
seek the presence of the beloved, as of something suitable and belonging to him. The second
union is caused formally by love; because love itself is this union or bond. In this sense
Augustine says (De Trin. viii, 10) that "love is a vital principle uniting, or seeking to unite
two together, the lover, to wit, and the beloved." For in describing it as "uniting" he refers
to the union of affection, without which there is no love: and in saying that "it seeks to
unite," he refers to real union.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument is true of real union. That is necessary to pleasure as being its
cause; desire implies the real absence of the beloved: but love remains whether the beloved
be absent or present.

Reply Obj. 2: Union has a threefold relation to love. There is union which causes love; and
this is substantial union, as regards the love with which one loves oneself; while as regards
the love wherewith one loves other things, it is the union of likeness, as stated above (Q.
27, A. 3). There is also a union which is essentially love itself. This union is according
to a bond of affection, and is likened to substantial union, inasmuch as the lover stands to
the object of his love, as to himself, if it be love of friendship; as to something belonging
to himself, if it be love of concupiscence. Again there is a union, which is the effect of
love. This is real union, which the lover seeks with the object of his love. Moreover this
union is in keeping with the demands of love: for as the Philosopher relates (Polit. ii, 1),
"Aristophanes stated that lovers would wish to be united both into one," but since "this would
result in either one or both being destroyed," they seek a suitable and becoming union--to
live together, speak together, and be united together in other like things.

Reply Obj. 3: Knowledge is perfected by the thing known being united, through its likeness,
to the knower. But the effect of love is that the thing itself which is loved, is, in a way,
united to the lover, as stated above. Consequently the union caused by love is closer than
that which is caused by knowledge.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 28, Art. 2]

Whether Mutual Indwelling Is an Effect of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that love does not cause mutual indwelling, so that the lover be
in the beloved and vice versa. For that which is in another is contained in it. But the same
cannot be container and contents. Therefore love cannot cause mutual indwelling, so that the
lover be in the beloved and vice versa.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing can penetrate within a whole, except by means of a division of the
whole. But it is the function of the reason, not of the appetite where love resides, to divide
things that are really united. Therefore mutual indwelling is not an effect of love.

Obj. 3: Further, if love involves the lover being in the beloved and vice versa, it follows
that the beloved is united to the lover, in the same way as the lover is united to the beloved.
But the union itself is love, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore it follows that the lover is
always loved by the object of his love; which is evidently false. Therefore mutual indwelling
is not an effect of love. Now charity is the love of God. Therefore, for the same reason, every
love makes the beloved to be in the lover, and vice versa.

I answer that, This effect of mutual indwelling may be understood as referring both to the
apprehensive and to the appetitive power. Because, as to the apprehensive power, the beloved
is said to be in the lover, inasmuch as the beloved abides in the apprehension of the lover,
according to Phil. 1:7, "For that I have you in my heart": while the lover is said to be in
the beloved, according to apprehension, inasmuch as the lover is not satisfied with a superficial
apprehension of the beloved, but strives to gain an intimate knowledge of everything pertaining
to the beloved, so as to penetrate into his very soul.

As the appetitive power, the object loved is said to be in the lover, inasmuch as it is in
his affections, by a kind of complacency: causing him either to take pleasure in it, or in
its good, when present; or, in the absence of the object loved, by his longing, to tend towards
it with the love of concupiscence, or towards the good that he wills to the beloved, with the
love of friendship: not indeed from any extrinsic cause (as when we desire one thing on account
of another, or wish good to another on account of something else), but because the complacency
in the beloved is rooted in the lover's heart. For this reason we speak of love as being "intimate";
and "of the bowels of charity." On the other hand, the lover is in the beloved, by the love
of concupiscence and by the love of friendship, but not in the same way. For the love of concupiscence
is not satisfied with any external or superficial possession or enjoyment of the beloved; but
seeks to possess the beloved perfectly, by penetrating into his heart, as it were. Whereas,
in the love of friendship, the lover is in the beloved, inasmuch as he reckons what is good
or evil to his friend, as being so to himself; and his friend's will as his own, so that it
seems as though he felt the good or suffered the evil in the person of his friend. Hence it
is proper to friends "to desire the same things, and to grieve and rejoice at the same," as
the Philosopher says (Ethic. ix, 3 and Rhet. ii, 4). Consequently in so far as he reckons what
affects his friend as affecting himself, the lover seems to be in the beloved, as though he
were become one with him: but in so far as, on the other hand, he wills and acts for his friend's
sake as for his own sake, looking on his friend as identified with himself, thus the beloved
is in the lover.

In yet a third way, mutual indwelling in the love of friendship can be understood in regard
to reciprocal love: inasmuch as friends return love for love, and both desire and do good things
for one another.

Reply Obj. 1: The beloved is contained in the lover, by being impressed on his heart and thus
becoming the object of his complacency. On the other hand, the lover is contained in the beloved,
inasmuch as the lover penetrates, so to speak, into the beloved. For nothing hinders a thing
from being both container and contents in different ways: just as a genus is contained in its
species, and vice versa.

Reply Obj. 2: The apprehension of the reason precedes the movement of love. Consequently, just
as the reason divides, so does the movement of love penetrate into the beloved, as was explained
above.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument is true of the third kind of mutual indwelling, which is not to
be found in every kind of love.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 28, Art. 3]

Whether Ecstasy Is an Effect of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that ecstasy is not an effect of love. For ecstasy seems to imply
loss of reason. But love does not always result in loss of reason: for lovers are masters of
themselves at times. Therefore love does not cause ecstasy.

Obj. 2: Further, the lover desires the beloved to be united to him. Therefore he draws the
beloved to himself, rather than betakes himself into the beloved, going forth out from himself
as it were.

Obj. 3: Further, love unites the beloved to the lover, as stated above (A. 1). If, therefore,
the lover goes out from himself, in order to betake himself into the beloved, it follows that
the lover always loves the beloved more than himself: which is evidently false. Therefore ecstasy
is not an effect of love. Since therefore according to the same author (Div. Nom. iv), every
love is a participated likeness of the Divine Love, it seems that every love causes ecstasy.

I answer that, To suffer ecstasy means to be placed outside oneself. This happens as to the
apprehensive power and as to the appetitive power. As to the apprehensive power, a man is said
to be placed outside himself, when he is placed outside the knowledge proper to him. This may
be due to his being raised to a higher knowledge; thus, a man is said to suffer ecstasy, inasmuch
as he is placed outside the connatural apprehension of his sense and reason, when he is raised
up so as to comprehend things that surpass sense and reason: or it may be due to his being
cast down into a state of debasement; thus a man may be said to suffer ecstasy, when he is
overcome by violent passion or madness. As to the appetitive power, a man is said to suffer
ecstasy, when that power is borne towards something else, so that it goes forth out from itself,
as it were.

The first of these ecstasies is caused by love dispositively in so far, namely, as love makes
the lover dwell on the beloved, as stated above (A. 2), and to dwell intently on one thing
draws the mind from other things. The second ecstasy is caused by love directly; by love of
friendship, simply; by love of concupiscence not simply but in a restricted sense. Because
in love of concupiscence, the lover is carried out of himself, in a certain sense; in so far,
namely, as not being satisfied with enjoying the good that he has, he seeks to enjoy something
outside himself. But since he seeks to have this extrinsic good for himself, he does not go
out from himself simply, and this movement remains finally within him. On the other hand, in
the love of friendship, a man's affection goes out from itself simply; because he wishes and
does good to his friend, by caring and providing for him, for his sake.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument is true of the first kind of ecstasy.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument applies to love of concupiscence, which, as stated above, does
not cause ecstasy simply.

Reply Obj. 3: He who loves, goes out from himself, in so far as he wills the good of his friend
and works for it. Yet he does not will the good of his friend more than his own good: and so
it does not follow that he loves another more than himself.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 28, Art. 4]

Whether Zeal Is an Effect of Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that zeal is not an effect of love. Therefore zeal is not an effect
of love.

Obj. 2: Further, the object of love is the good, which communicates itself to others. But zeal
is opposed to communication; since it seems an effect of zeal, that a man refuses to share
the object of his love with another: thus husbands are said to be jealous of (zelare) their
wives, because they will not share them with others. Therefore zeal is not an effect of love.

Obj. 3: Further, there is no zeal without hatred, as neither is there without love: for it
is written (Ps. 72:3): "I had a zeal on occasion of the wicked." Therefore it should not be
set down as an effect of love any more than of hatred.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv): "God is said to be a zealot, on account of
his great love for all things."

I answer that, Zeal, whatever way we take it, arises from the intensity of love. For it is
evident that the more intensely a power tends to anything, the more vigorously it withstands
opposition or resistance. Since therefore love is "a movement towards the object loved," as
Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 35), an intense love seeks to remove everything that opposes it.

But this happens in different ways according to love of concupiscence, and love of friendship.
For in love of concupiscence he who desires something intensely, is moved against all that
hinders his gaining or quietly enjoying the object of his love. It is thus that husbands are
said to be jealous of their wives, lest association with others prove a hindrance to their
exclusive individual rights. In like manner those who seek to excel, are moved against those
who seem to excel, as though these were a hindrance to their excelling. And this is the zeal
of envy, of which it is written (Ps. 36:1): "Be not emulous of evil doers, nor envy (zelaveris)
them that work iniquity."

On the other hand, love of friendship seeks the friend's good: wherefore, when it is intense,
it causes a man to be moved against everything that opposes the friend's good. In this respect,
a man is said to be zealous on behalf of his friend, when he makes a point of repelling whatever
may be said or done against the friend's good. In this way, too, a man is said to be zealous
on God's behalf, when he endeavors, to the best of his means, to repel whatever is contrary
to the honor or will of God; according to 3 Kings 19:14: "With zeal I have been zealous for
the Lord of hosts." Again on the words of John 2:17: "The zeal of Thy house hath eaten me up,"
a gloss says that "a man is eaten up with a good zeal, who strives to remedy whatever evil
he perceives; and if he cannot, bears with it and laments it."

Reply Obj. 1: The Apostle is speaking in this passage of the zeal of envy; which is indeed
the cause of contention, not against the object of love, but for it, and against that which
is opposed to it.

Reply Obj. 2: Good is loved inasmuch as it can be communicated to the lover. Consequently whatever
hinders the perfection of this communication, becomes hateful. Thus zeal arises from love of
good. But through defect of goodness, it happens that certain small goods cannot, in their
entirety, be possessed by many at the same time: and from the love of such things arises the
zeal of envy. But it does not arise, properly speaking, in the case of those things which,
in their entirety, can be possessed by many: for no one envies another the knowledge of truth,
which can be known entirely by many; except perhaps one may envy another his superiority in
the knowledge of it.

Reply Obj. 3: The very fact that a man hates whatever is opposed to the object of his love,
is the effect of love. Hence zeal is set down as an effect of love rather than of hatred.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 28, Art. 5]

Whether Love Is a Passion That Wounds the Lover?

Objection 1: It would seem that love wounds the lover. For languor denotes a hurt in the one
that languishes. But love causes languor: for it is written (Cant 2:5): "Stay me up with flowers,
compass me about with apples; because I languish with love." Therefore love is a wounding passion.

Obj. 2: Further, melting is a kind of dissolution. But love melts that in which it is: for
it is written (Cant 5:6): "My soul melted when my beloved spoke." Therefore love is a dissolvent:
therefore it is a corruptive and a wounding passion.

Obj. 3: Further, fervor denotes a certain excess of heat; which excess has a corruptive effect.
But love causes fervor: for Dionysius (Coel. Hier. vii) in reckoning the properties belonging
to the Seraphim's love, includes "hot" and "piercing" and "most fervent." Moreover it is said
of love (Cant 8:6) that "its lamps are fire and flames." Therefore love is a wounding and corruptive
passion.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "everything loves itself with a love that
holds it together," i.e. that preserves it. Therefore love is not a wounding passion, but rather
one that preserves and perfects.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 26, AA. 1, 2; Q. 27, A. 1), love denotes a certain adapting
of the appetitive power to some good. Now nothing is hurt by being adapted to that which is
suitable to it; rather, if possible, it is perfected and bettered. But if a thing be adapted
to that which is not suitable to it, it is hurt and made worse thereby. Consequently love of
a suitable good perfects and betters the lover; but love of a good which is unsuitable to the
lover, wounds and worsens him. Wherefore man is perfected and bettered chiefly by the love
of God: but is wounded and worsened by the love of sin, according to Osee 9:10: "They became
abominable, as those things which they loved."

And let this be understood as applying to love in respect of its formal element, i.e. in regard
to the appetite. But in respect of the material element in the passion of love, i.e. a certain
bodily change, it happens that love is hurtful, by reason of this change being excessive: just
as it happens in the senses, and in every act of a power of the soul that is exercised through
the change of some bodily organ.

In reply to the objections, it is to be observed that four proximate effects may be ascribed
to love: viz. melting, enjoyment, languor, and fervor. Of these the first is "melting," which
is opposed to freezing. For things that are frozen, are closely bound together, so as to be
hard to pierce. But it belongs to love that the appetite is fitted to receive the good which
is loved, inasmuch as the object loved is in the lover, as stated above (A. 2). Consequently
the freezing or hardening of the heart is a disposition incompatible with love: while melting
denotes a softening of the heart, whereby the heart shows itself to be ready for the entrance
of the beloved. If, then, the beloved is present and possessed, pleasure or enjoyment ensues.
But if the beloved be absent, two passions arise; viz. sadness at its absence, which is denoted
by "languor" (hence Cicero in De Tusc. Quaest. iii, 11 applies the term "ailment" chiefly to
sadness); and an intense desire to possess the beloved, which is signified by "fervor." And
these are the effects of love considered formally, according to the relation of the appetitive
power to its object. But in the passion of love, other effects ensue, proportionate to the
above, in respect of a change in the organ.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 28, Art. 6]

Whether Love Is Cause of All That the Lover Does?

Objection 1: It would seem that the lover does not do everything from love. For love is a passion,
as stated above (Q. 26, A. 2). But man does not do everything from passion: but some things
he does from choice, and some things from ignorance, as stated in Ethic. v, 8. Therefore not
everything that a man does, is done from love.

Obj. 2: Further, the appetite is a principle of movement and action in all animals, as stated
in De Anima iii, 10. If, therefore, whatever a man does is done from love, the other passions
of the appetitive faculty are superfluous.

Obj. 3: Further, nothing is produced at one and the same time by contrary causes. But some
things are done from hatred. Therefore all things are not done from love.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "all things, whatever they do, they do
for the love of good."

I answer that, Every agent acts for an end, as stated above (Q. 1, A. 2). Now the end is the
good desired and loved by each one. Wherefore it is evident that every agent, whatever it be,
does every action from love of some kind.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection takes love as a passion existing in the sensitive appetite. But
here we are speaking of love in a general sense, inasmuch as it includes intellectual, rational,
animal, and natural love: for it is in this sense that Dionysius speaks of love in chapter
iv of De Divinis Nominibus.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (A. 5; Q. 27, A. 4) desire, sadness and pleasure, and consequently
all the other passions of the soul, result from love. Wherefore every act that proceeds from
any passion, proceeds also from love as from a first cause: and so the other passions, which
are proximate causes, are not superfluous.

Reply Obj. 3: Hatred also is a result of love, as we shall state further on (Q. 29, A. 2).

QUESTION 29

OF HATRED (In Six Articles)

We must now consider hatred: concerning which there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether evil is the cause and the object of hatred?

(2) Whether love is the cause of hatred?

(3) Whether hatred is stronger than love?

(4) Whether a man can hate himself?

(5) Whether a man can hate the truth?

(6) Whether a thing can be the object of universal hatred?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 29, Art. 1]

Whether Evil Is the Cause and Object of Hatred?

Objection 1: It would seem that evil is not the object and cause of hatred. For everything
that exists, as such, is good. If therefore evil be the object of hatred, it follows that nothing
but the lack of something can be the object of hatred: which is clearly untrue.

Obj. 2: Further, hatred of evil is praiseworthy; hence (2 Macc. 3:1) some are praised for that
"the laws were very well kept, because of the godliness of Onias the high-priest, and the hatred
of their souls [Douay: 'his soul'] had no evil." If, therefore, nothing but evil be the object
of hatred, it would follow that all hatred is commendable: and this is clearly false.

Obj. 3: Further, the same thing is not at the same time both good and evil. But the same thing
is lovable and hateful to different subjects. Therefore hatred is not only of evil, but also
of good.

On the contrary, Hatred is the opposite of love. But the object of love is good, as stated
above (Q. 26, A. 1; Q. 27, A. 1). Therefore the object of hatred is evil.

I answer that, Since the natural appetite is the result of apprehension (though this apprehension
is not in the same subject as the natural appetite), it seems that what applies to the inclination
of the natural appetite, applies also to the animal appetite, which does result from an apprehension
in the same subject, as stated above (Q. 26, A. 1). Now, with regard to the natural appetite,
it is evident, that just as each thing is naturally attuned and adapted to that which is suitable
to it, wherein consists natural love; so has it a natural dissonance from that which opposes
and destroys it; and this is natural hatred. So, therefore, in the animal appetite, or in the
intellectual appetite, love is a certain harmony of the appetite with that which is apprehended
as suitable; while hatred is dissonance of the appetite from that which is apprehended as repugnant
and hurtful. Now, just as whatever is suitable, as such, bears the aspect of good; so whatever
is repugnant, as such, bears the aspect of evil. And therefore, just as good is the object
of love, so evil is the object of hatred.

Reply Obj. 1: Being, as such, has not the aspect of repugnance but only of fittingness; because
being is common to all things. But being, inasmuch as it is this determinate being, has an
aspect of repugnance to some determinate being. And in this way, one being is hateful to another,
and is evil; though not in itself, but by comparison with something else.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as a thing may be apprehended as good, when it is not truly good; so a thing
may be apprehended as evil, whereas it is not truly evil. Hence it happens sometimes that neither
hatred of evil nor love of good is good.

Reply Obj. 3: To different things the same thing may be lovable or hateful: in respect of the
natural appetite, owing to one and the same thing being naturally suitable to one thing, and
naturally unsuitable to another: thus heat is becoming to fire and unbecoming to water: and
in respect of the animal appetite, owing to one and the same thing being apprehended by one
as good, by another as bad.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 29, Art. 2]

Whether Love Is a Cause of Hatred?

Objection 1: It would seem that love is not a cause of hatred. For "the opposite members of
a division are naturally simultaneous" (Praedic. x). But love and hatred are opposite members
of a division, since they are contrary to one another. Therefore they are naturally simultaneous.
Therefore love is not the cause of hatred.

Obj. 2: Further, of two contraries, one is not the cause of the other. But love and hatred
are contraries. Therefore love is not the cause of hatred.

Obj. 3: Further, that which follows is not the cause of that which precedes. But hatred precedes
love, seemingly: since hatred implies a turning away from evil, whereas love implies a turning
towards good. Therefore love is not the cause of hatred. Therefore hatred also, since it is
an emotion of the soul, is caused by love.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), love consists in a certain agreement of the lover with
the object loved, while hatred consists in a certain disagreement or dissonance. Now we should
consider in each thing, what agrees with it, before that which disagrees: since a thing disagrees
with another, through destroying or hindering that which agrees with it. Consequently love
must needs precede hatred; and nothing is hated, save through being contrary to a suitable
thing which is loved. And hence it is that every hatred is caused by love.

Reply Obj. 1: The opposite members of a division are sometimes naturally simultaneous, both
really and logically; e.g. two species of animal, or two species of color. Sometimes they are
simultaneous logically, while, in reality, one precedes, and causes the other; e.g. the species
of numbers, figures and movements. Sometimes they are not simultaneous either really or logically;
e.g. substance and accident; for substance is in reality the cause of accident; and being is
predicated of substance before it is predicated of accident, by a priority of reason, because
it is not predicated of accident except inasmuch as the latter is in substance. Now love and
hatred are naturally simultaneous, logically but not really. Wherefore nothing hinders love
from being the cause of hatred.

Reply Obj. 2: Love and hatred are contraries if considered in respect of the same thing. But
if taken in respect of contraries, they are not themselves contrary, but consequent to one
another: for it amounts to the same that one love a certain thing, or that one hate its contrary.
Thus love of one thing is the cause of one's hating its contrary.

Reply Obj. 3: In the order of execution, the turning away from one term precedes the turning
towards the other. But the reverse is the case in the order of intention: since approach to
one term is the reason for turning away from the other. Now the appetitive movement belongs
rather to the order of intention than to that of execution. Wherefore love precedes hatred:
because each is an appetitive movement.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 29, Art. 3]

Whether Hatred Is Stronger Than Love?

Objection 1: It would seem that hatred is stronger than love. For Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu.
36): "There is no one who does not flee from pain, more than he desires pleasure." But flight
from pain pertains to hatred; while desire for pleasure belongs to love. Therefore hatred is
stronger than love.

Obj. 2: Further, the weaker is overcome by the stronger. But love is overcome by hatred: when,
that is to say, love is turned into hatred. Therefore hatred is stronger than love.

Obj. 3: Further, the emotions of the soul are shown by their effects. But man insists more
on repelling what is hateful, than on seeking what is pleasant: thus also irrational animals
refrain from pleasure for fear of the whip, as Augustine instances (QQ. 83, qu. 36). Therefore
hatred is stronger than love.

On the contrary, Good is stronger than evil; because "evil does nothing except in virtue of
good," as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv). But hatred and love differ according to the difference
of good and evil. Therefore love is stronger than hatred.

I answer that, It is impossible for an effect to be stronger than its cause. Now every hatred
arises from some love as its cause, as above stated (A. 2). Therefore it is impossible for
hatred to be stronger than love absolutely.

But furthermore, love must needs be, absolutely speaking, stronger than hatred. Because a thing
is moved to the end more strongly than to the means. Now turning away from evil is directed
as a means to the gaining of good. Wherefore, absolutely speaking, the soul's movement in respect
of good is stronger than its movement in respect of evil.

Nevertheless hatred sometimes seems to be stronger than love, for two reasons. First, because
hatred is more keenly felt than love. For, since the sensitive perception is accompanied by
a certain impression; when once the impression has been received it is not felt so keenly as
in the moment of receiving it. Hence the heat of a hectic fever, though greater, is nevertheless
not felt so much as the heat of tertian fever; because the heat of the hectic fever is habitual
and like a second nature. For this reason, love is felt more keenly in the absence of the object
loved; thus Augustine says (De Trin. x, 12) that "love is felt more keenly when we lack what
we love." And for the same reason, the unbecomingness of that which is hated is felt more keenly
than the becomingness of that which is loved. Secondly, because comparison is made between
a hatred and a love which are not mutually corresponding. Because, according to different degrees
of good there are different degrees of love to which correspond different degrees of hatred.
Wherefore a hatred that corresponds to a greater love, moves us more than a lesser love.

Hence it is clear how to reply to the First Objection. For the love of pleasure is less than
the love of self-preservation, to which corresponds flight from pain. Wherefore we flee from
pain more than we love pleasure.

Reply Obj. 2: Hatred would never overcome love, were it not for the greater love to which that
hatred corresponds. Thus man loves himself, more than he loves his friend: and because he loves
himself, his friend is hateful to him, if he oppose him.

Reply Obj. 3: The reason why we act with greater insistence in repelling what is hateful, is
because we feel hatred more keenly.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 29, Art. 4]

Whether a Man Can Hate Himself?

Objection 1: It would seem that a man can hate himself. But many love iniquity. Therefore many
hate themselves.

Obj. 2: Further, him we hate, to whom we wish and work evil. But sometimes a man wishes and
works evil to himself, e.g. a man who kills himself. Therefore some men hate themselves.

Obj. 3: Further, Boethius says (De Consol. ii) that "avarice makes a man hateful"; whence we
may conclude that everyone hates a miser. But some men are misers. Therefore they hate themselves.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Eph. 5:29) that "no man ever hated his own flesh."

I answer that, Properly speaking, it is impossible for a man to hate himself. For everything
naturally desires good, nor can anyone desire anything for himself, save under the aspect of
good: for "evil is outside the scope of the will," as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv). Now to
love a man is to will good to him, as stated above (Q. 26, A. 4). Consequently, a man must,
of necessity, love himself; and it is impossible for a man to hate himself, properly speaking.

But accidentally it happens that a man hates himself: and this in two ways. First, on the part
of the good which a man wills to himself. For it happens sometimes that what is desired as
good in some particular respect, is simply evil; and in this way, a man accidentally wills
evil to himself; and thus hates himself. Secondly, in regard to himself, to whom he wills good.
For each thing is that which is predominant in it; wherefore the state is said to do what the
king does, as if the king were the whole state. Now it is clear that man is principally the
mind of man. And it happens that some men account themselves as being principally that which
they are in their material and sensitive nature. Wherefore they love themselves according to
what they take themselves to be, while they hate that which they really are, by desiring what
is contrary to reason. And in both these ways, "he that loveth iniquity hateth" not only "his
own soul," but also himself.

Wherefore the reply to the First Objection is evident.

Reply Obj. 2: No man wills and works evil to himself, except he apprehend it under the aspect
of good. For even they who kill themselves, apprehend death itself as a good, considered as
putting an end to some unhappiness or pain.

Reply Obj. 3: The miser hates something accidental to himself, but not for that reason does
he hate himself: thus a sick man hates his sickness for the very reason that he loves himself.
Or we may say that avarice makes man hateful to others, but not to himself. In fact, it is
caused by inordinate self-love, in respect of which, man desires temporal goods for himself
more than he should.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 29, Art. 5]

Whether a Man Can Hate the Truth?

Objection 1: It would seem that a man cannot hate the truth. For good, true, and being are
convertible. But a man cannot hate good. Neither, therefore, can he hate the truth.

Obj. 2: Further, "All men have a natural desire for knowledge," as stated in the beginning
of the Metaphysics (i, 1). But knowledge is only of truth. Therefore truth is naturally desired
and loved. But that which is in a thing naturally, is always in it. Therefore no man can hate
the truth.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4) that "men love those who are straightforward."
But there can be no other motive for this save truth. Therefore man loves the truth naturally.
Therefore he cannot hate it.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Gal. 4:16): "Am I become your enemy because I tell you the
truth?" [*St. Thomas quotes the passage, probably from memory, as though it were an assertion:
"I am become," etc.]

I answer that, Good, true and being are the same in reality, but differ as considered by reason.
For good is considered in the light of something desirable, while being and true are not so
considered: because good is "what all things seek." Wherefore good, as such, cannot be the
object of hatred, neither in general nor in particular. Being and truth in general cannot be
the object of hatred: because disagreement is the cause of hatred, and agreement is the cause
of love; while being and truth are common to all things. But nothing hinders some particular
being or some particular truth being an object of hatred, in so far as it is considered as
hurtful and repugnant; since hurtfulness and repugnance are not incompatible with the notion
of being and truth, as they are with the notion of good.

Now it may happen in three ways that some particular truth is repugnant or hurtful to the good
we love. First, according as truth is in things as in its cause and origin. And thus man sometimes
hates a particular truth, when he wishes that what is true were not true. Secondly, according
as truth is in man's knowledge, which hinders him from gaining the object loved: such is the
case of those who wish not to know the truth of faith, that they may sin freely; in whose person
it is said (Job 21:14): "We desire not the knowledge of Thy ways." Thirdly, a particular truth
is hated, as being repugnant, inasmuch as it is in the intellect of another man: as, for instance,
when a man wishes to remain hidden in his sin, he hates that anyone should know the truth about
his sin. In this respect, Augustine says (Confess. x, 23) that men "love truth when it enlightens,
they hate it when it reproves." This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: The knowledge of truth is lovable in itself: hence Augustine says that men love
it when it enlightens. But accidentally, the knowledge of truth may become hateful, in so far
as it hinders one from accomplishing one's desire.

Reply Obj. 3: The reason why we love those who are straightforward is that they make known
the truth, and the knowledge of the truth, considered in itself, is a desirable thing.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 29, Art. 6]

Whether Anything Can Be an Object of Universal Hatred?

Objection 1: It would seem that a thing cannot be an object of universal hatred. Because hatred
is a passion of the sensitive appetite, which is moved by an apprehension in the senses. But
the senses cannot apprehend the universal. Therefore a thing cannot be an object of universal
hatred.

Obj. 2: Further, hatred is caused by disagreement; and where there is disagreement, there is
nothing in common. But the notion of universality implies something in common. Therefore nothing
can be the object of universal hatred.

Obj. 3: Further, the object of hatred is evil. But "evil is in things, and not in the mind"
(Metaph. vi, 4). Since therefore the universal is in the mind only, which abstracts the universal
from the particular, it would seem that hatred cannot have a universal object.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4) that "anger is directed to something singular,
whereas hatred is also directed to a thing in general; for everybody hates the thief and the
backbiter."

I answer that, There are two ways of speaking of the universal: first, as considered under
the aspect of universality; secondly, as considered in the nature to which it is ascribed:
for it is one thing to consider the universal man, and another to consider a man as man. If,
therefore, we take the universal, in the first way, no sensitive power, whether of apprehension
or of appetite, can attain the universal: because the universal is obtained by abstraction
from individual matter, on which every sensitive power is based.

Nevertheless the sensitive powers, both of apprehension and of appetite, can tend to something
universally. Thus we say that the object of sight is color considered generically; not that
the sight is cognizant of universal color, but because the fact that color is cognizant by
the sight, is attributed to color, not as being this particular color, but simply because it
is color. Accordingly hatred in the sensitive faculty can regard something universally: because
this thing, by reason of its common nature, and not merely as an individual, is hostile to
the animal--for instance, a wolf in regard to a sheep. Hence a sheep hates the wolf universally.
On the other hand, anger is always caused by something in particular: because it is caused
by some action of the one that hurts us; and actions proceed from individuals.

But according as hatred is in the intellectual part, since it arises from the universal apprehension
of the intellect, it can regard the universal in both ways.

Reply Obj. 1: The senses do not apprehend the universal, as such: but they apprehend something
to which the character of universality is given by abstraction.

Reply Obj. 2: That which is common to all cannot be a reason of hatred. But nothing hinders
a thing from being common to many, and at variance with others, so as to be hateful to them.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers the universal under the aspect of universality: and thus
it does not come under the sensitive apprehension or appetite.

QUESTION 30

OF CONCUPISCENCE (In Four Articles)

We have now to consider concupiscence: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether concupiscence is in the sensitive appetite only?

(2) Whether concupiscence is a specific passion?

(3) Whether some concupiscences are natural, and some not natural?

(4) Whether concupiscence is infinite?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 30, Art. 1]

Whether Concupiscence Is in the Sensitive Appetite Only?

Objection 1: It would seem that concupiscence is not only in the sensitive appetite. For there
is a concupiscence of wisdom, according to Wis. 6:21: "The concupiscence [Douay: 'desire']
of wisdom bringeth to the everlasting kingdom." But the sensitive appetite can have no tendency
to wisdom. Therefore concupiscence is not only in the sensitive appetite.

Obj. 2: Further, the desire for the commandments of God is not in the sensitive appetite: in
fact the Apostle says (Rom. 7:18): "There dwelleth not in me, that is to say, in my flesh,
that which is good." But desire for God's commandments is an act of concupiscence, according
to Ps. 118:20: "My soul hath coveted (concupivit) to long for thy justifications." Therefore
concupiscence is not only in the sensitive appetite.

Obj. 3: Further, to each power, its proper good is a matter of concupiscence. Therefore concupiscence
is in each power of the soul, and not only in the sensitive appetite.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 12) that "the irrational part which is subject
and amenable to reason, is divided into the faculties of concupiscence and anger. This is the
irrational part of the soul, passive and appetitive." Therefore concupiscence is in the sensitive
appetite.

I answer that, As the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11), "concupiscence is a craving for that
which is pleasant." Now pleasure is twofold, as we shall state later on (Q. 31, AA. 3, 4):
one is in the intelligible good, which is the good of reason; the other is in good perceptible
to the senses. The former pleasure seems to belong to soul alone: whereas the latter belongs
to both soul and body: because the sense is a power seated in a bodily organ: wherefore sensible
good is the good of the whole composite. Now concupiscence seems to be the craving for this
latter pleasure, since it belongs to the united soul and body, as is implied by the Latin word
"concupiscentia." Therefore, properly speaking, concupiscence is in the sensitive appetite,
and in the concupiscible faculty, which takes its name from it.

Reply Obj.

Reply Obj. 2: Properly speaking, desire may be not only in the lower, but also in the higher
appetite. For it does not imply fellowship in craving, as concupiscence does; but simply movement
towards the thing desired.

Reply Obj. 3: It belongs to each power of the soul to seek its proper good by the natural appetite,
which does not arise from apprehension. But the craving for good, by the animal appetite, which
arises from apprehension, belongs to the appetitive power alone. And to crave a thing under
the aspect of something delightful to the senses, wherein concupiscence properly consists,
belongs to the concupiscible power.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 30, Art. 2]

Whether Concupiscence Is a Specific Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that concupiscence is not a specific passion of the concupiscible
power. For passions are distinguished by their objects. But the object of the concupiscible
power is something delightful to the senses; and this is also the object of concupiscence,
as the Philosopher declares (Rhet. i, 11). Therefore concupiscence is not a specific passion
of the concupiscible faculty.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 33) that "covetousness is the love of transitory
things": so that it is not distinct from love. But all specific passions are distinct from
one another. Therefore concupiscence is not a specific passion in the concupiscible faculty.

Obj. 3: Further, to each passion of the concupiscible faculty there is a specific contrary
passion in that faculty, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4). But no specific passion of the concupiscible
faculty is contrary to concupiscence. For Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 12) that "good
when desired gives rise to concupiscence; when present, it gives joy: in like manner, the evil
we apprehend makes us fear, the evil that is present makes us sad": from which we gather that
as sadness is contrary to joy, so is fear contrary to concupiscence. But fear is not in the
concupiscible, but in the irascible part. Therefore concupiscence is not a specific passion
of the concupiscible faculty.

On the contrary, Concupiscence is caused by love, and tends to pleasure, both of which are
passions of the concupiscible faculty. Hence it is distinguished from the other concupiscible
passions, as a specific passion.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1; Q. 23, A. 1), the good which gives pleasure to the senses
is the common object of the concupiscible faculty. Hence the various concupiscible passions
are distinguished according to the differences of that good. Now the diversity of this object
can arise from the very nature of the object, or from a diversity in its active power. The
diversity, derived from the nature of the active object, causes a material difference of passions:
while the difference in regard to its active power causes a formal diversity of passions, in
respect of which the passions differ specifically.

Now the nature of the motive power of the end or of the good, differs according as it is really
present, or absent: because, according as it is present, it causes the faculty to find rest
in it; whereas, according as it is absent, it causes the faculty to be moved towards it. Wherefore
the object of sensible pleasure causes love, inasmuch as, so to speak, it attunes and conforms
the appetite to itself; it causes concupiscence, inasmuch as, when absent, it draws the faculty
to itself; and it causes pleasure, inasmuch as, when present, it makes the faculty to find
rest in itself. Accordingly, concupiscence is a passion differing in species from both love
and pleasure. But concupiscences of this or that pleasurable object differ in number.

Reply Obj. 1: Pleasurable good is the object of concupiscence, not absolutely, but considered
as absent: just as the sensible, considered as past, is the object of memory. For these particular
conditions diversify the species of passions, and even of the powers of the sensitive part,
which regards particular things.

Reply Obj. 2: In the passage quoted we have causal, not essential predication: for covetousness
is not essentially love, but an effect of love. We may also say that Augustine is taking covetousness
in a wide sense, for any movement of the appetite in respect of good to come: so that it includes
both love and hope.

Reply Obj. 3: The passion which is directly contrary to concupiscence has no name, and stands
in relation to evil, as concupiscence in regard to good. But since, like fear, it regards the
absent evil; sometimes it goes by the name of fear, just as hope is sometimes called covetousness.
For a small good or evil is reckoned as though it were nothing: and consequently every movement
of the appetite in future good or evil is called hope or fear, which regard good and evil as
arduous.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 30, Art. 3]

Whether Some Concupiscences Are Natural, and Some Not Natural?

Objection 1: It would seem that concupiscences are not divided into those which are natural
and those which are not. For concupiscence belongs to the animal appetite, as stated above
(A. 1, ad 3). But the natural appetite is contrasted with the animal appetite. Therefore no
concupiscence is natural.

Obj. 2: Further, material differences makes no difference of species, but only numerical difference;
a difference which is outside the purview of science. But if some concupiscences are natural,
and some not, they differ only in respect of their objects; which amounts to a material difference,
which is one of number only. Therefore concupiscences should not be divided into those that
are natural and those that are not.

Obj. 3: Further, reason is contrasted with nature, as stated in Phys. ii, 5. If therefore in
man there is a concupiscence which is not natural, it must needs be rational. But this is impossible:
because, since concupiscence is a passion, it belongs to the sensitive appetite, and not to
the will, which is the rational appetite. Therefore there are no concupiscences which are not
natural.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 11 and Rhetor. i, 11) distinguishes natural concupiscences
from those that are not natural.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), concupiscence is the craving for pleasurable good. Now
a thing is pleasurable in two ways. First, because it is suitable to the nature of the animal;
for example, food, drink, and the like: and concupiscence of such pleasurable things is said
to be natural. Secondly, a thing is pleasurable because it is apprehended as suitable to the
animal: as when one apprehends something as good and suitable, and consequently takes pleasure
in it: and concupiscence of such pleasurable things is said to be not natural, and is more
wont to be called "cupidity."

Accordingly concupiscences of the first kind, or natural concupiscences, are common to men
and other animals: because to both is there something suitable and pleasurable according to
nature: and in these all men agree; wherefore the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 11) calls them "common"
and "necessary." But concupiscences of the second kind are proper to men, to whom it is proper
to devise something as good and suitable, beyond that which nature requires. Hence the Philosopher
says (Rhet. i, 11) that the former concupiscences are "irrational," but the latter, "rational."
And because different men reason differently, therefore the latter are also called (Ethic.
iii, 11) "peculiar and acquired," i.e. in addition to those that are natural.

Reply Obj. 1: The same thing that is the object of the natural appetite, may be the object
of the animal appetite, once it is apprehended. And in this way there may be an animal concupiscence
of food, drink, and the like, which are objects of the natural appetite.

Reply Obj. 2: The difference between those concupiscences that are natural and those that are
not, is not merely a material difference; it is also, in a way, formal, in so far as it arises
from a difference in the active object. Now the object of the appetite is the apprehended good.
Hence diversity of the active object follows from diversity of apprehension: according as a
thing is apprehended as suitable, either by absolute apprehension, whence arise natural concupiscences,
which the Philosopher calls "irrational" (Rhet. i, 11); or by apprehension together with deliberation,
whence arise those concupiscences that are not natural, and which for this very reason the
Philosopher calls "rational" (Rhet. i, 11).

Reply Obj. 3: Man has not only universal reason, pertaining to the intellectual faculty; but
also particular reason pertaining to the sensitive faculty, as stated in the First Part (Q.
78, A. 4; Q. 81, A. 3): so that even rational concupiscence may pertain to the sensitive appetite.
Moreover the sensitive appetite can be moved by the universal reason also, through the medium
of the particular imagination.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 30, Art. 4]

Whether Concupiscence Is Infinite?

Objection 1: It would seem that concupiscence is not infinite. For the object of concupiscence
is good, which has the aspect of an end. But where there is infinity there is no end (Metaph.
ii, 2). Therefore concupiscence cannot be infinite.

Obj. 2: Further, concupiscence is of the fitting good, since it proceeds from love. But the
infinite is without proportion, and therefore unfitting. Therefore concupiscence cannot be
infinite.

Obj. 3: Further, there is no passing through infinite things: and thus there is no reaching
an ultimate term in them. But the subject of concupiscence is not delighted until he attain
the ultimate term. Therefore, if concupiscence were infinite, no delight would ever ensue.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Polit. i, 3) that "since concupiscence is infinite,
men desire an infinite number of things."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), concupiscence is twofold; one is natural, the other
is not natural. Natural concupiscence cannot be actually infinite: because it is of that which
nature requires; and nature ever tends to something finite and fixed. Hence man never desires
infinite meat, or infinite drink. But just as in nature there is potential successive infinity,
so can this kind of concupiscence be infinite successively; so that, for instance, after getting
food, a man may desire food yet again; and so of anything else that nature requires: because
these bodily goods, when obtained, do not last for ever, but fail. Hence Our Lord said to the
woman of Samaria (John 4:13): "Whosoever drinketh of this water, shall thirst again."

But non-natural concupiscence is altogether infinite. Because, as stated above (A. 3), it follows
from the reason, and it belongs to the reason to proceed to infinity. Hence he that desires
riches, may desire to be rich, not up to a certain limit, but to be simply as rich as possible.

Another reason may be assigned, according to the Philosopher (Polit. i, 3), why a certain concupiscence
is finite, and another infinite. Because concupiscence of the end is always infinite: since
the end is desired for its own sake, e.g. health: and thus greater health is more desired,
and so on to infinity; just as, if a white thing of itself dilates the sight, that which is
more white dilates yet more. On the other hand, concupiscence of the means is not infinite,
because the concupiscence of the means is in suitable proportion to the end. Consequently those
who place their end in riches have an infinite concupiscence of riches; whereas those who desire
riches, on account of the necessities of life, desire a finite measure of riches, sufficient
for the necessities of life, as the Philosopher says (Polit. i, 3). The same applies to the
concupiscence of any other things.

Reply Obj. 1: Every object of concupiscence is taken as something finite: either because it
is finite in reality, as being once actually desired; or because it is finite as apprehended.
For it cannot be apprehended as infinite, since the infinite is that "from which, however much
we may take, there always remains something to be taken" (Phys. iii, 6).

Reply Obj. 2: The reason is possessed of infinite power, in a certain sense, in so far as it
can consider a thing infinitely, as appears in the addition of numbers and lines. Consequently,
the infinite, taken in a certain way, is proportionate to reason. In fact the universal which
the reason apprehends, is infinite in a sense, inasmuch as it contains potentially an infinite
number of singulars.

Reply Obj. 3: In order that a man be delighted, there is no need for him to realize all that
he desires: for he delights in the realization of each object of his concupiscence.

QUESTION 31

OF DELIGHT [*Or, Pleasure] CONSIDERED IN ITSELF (In Eight Articles)

We must now consider delight and sadness. Concerning delight four things must be considered:
(1) Delight in itself; (2) The causes of delight; (3) Its effects; (4) Its goodness and malice.

Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether delight is a passion?

(2) Whether delight is subject to time?

(3) Whether it differs from joy?

(4) Whether it is in the intellectual appetite?

(5) Of the delights of the higher appetite compared with the delight of the lower;

(6) Of sensible delights compared with one another;

(7) Whether any delight is non-natural?

(8) Whether one delight can be contrary to another?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 1]

Whether Delight Is a Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that delight is not a passion. For Damascene (De Fide Orth. ii,
22) distinguishes operation from passion, and says that "operation is a movement in accord
with nature, while passion is a movement contrary to nature." But delight is an operation,
according to the Philosopher (Ethic. vii, 12; x, 5). Therefore delight is not a passion.

Obj. 2: Further, "To be passive is to be moved," as stated in Phys. iii, 3. But delight does
not consist in being moved, but in having been moved; for it arises from good already gained.
Therefore delight is not a passion.

Obj. 3: Further, delight is a kind of a perfection of the one who is delighted; since it "perfects
operation," as stated in Ethic. x, 4, 5. But to be perfected does not consist in being passive
or in being altered, as stated in Phys. vii, 3 and De Anima ii, 5. Therefore delight is not
a passion.

On the contrary, Augustine (De Civ. Dei ix, 2; xiv, 5 seqq) reckons delight, joy, or gladness
among the other passions of the soul.

I answer that, The movements of the sensitive appetite, are properly called passions, as stated
above (Q. 22, A. 3). Now every emotion arising from a sensitive apprehension, is a movement
of the sensitive appetite: and this must needs be said of delight, since, according to the
Philosopher (Rhet. i, 11) "delight is a certain movement of the soul and a sensible establishing
thereof all at once, in keeping with the nature of the thing."

In order to understand this, we must observe that just as in natural things some happen to
attain to their natural perfections, so does this happen in animals. And though movement towards
perfection does not occur all at once, yet the attainment of natural perfection does occur
all at once. Now there is this difference between animals and other natural things, that when
these latter are established in the state becoming their nature, they do not perceive it, whereas
animals do. And from this perception there arises a certain movement of the soul in the sensitive
appetite; which movement is called delight. Accordingly by saying that delight is "a movement
of the soul," we designate its genus. By saying that it is "an establishing in keeping with
the thing's nature," i.e. with that which exists in the thing, we assign the cause of delight,
viz. the presence of a becoming good. By saying that this establishing is "all at once," we
mean that this establishing is to be understood not as in the process of establishment, but
as in the fact of complete establishment, in the term of the movement, as it were: for delight
is not a "becoming" as Plato [*Phileb. 32, 33] maintained, but a "complete fact," as stated
in Ethic. vii, 12. Lastly, by saying that this establishing is "sensible," we exclude the perfections
of insensible things wherein there is no delight. It is therefore evident that, since delight
is a movement of the animal appetite arising from an apprehension of sense, it is a passion
of the soul.

Reply Obj. 1: Connatural operation, which is unhindered, is a second perfection, as stated
in De Anima ii, 1: and therefore when a thing is established in its proper connatural and unhindered
operation, delight follows, which consists in a state of completion, as observed above. Accordingly
when we say that delight is an operation, we designate, not its essence, but its cause.

Reply Obj. 2: A twofold movement is to be observed in an animal: one, according to the intention
of the end, and this belongs to the appetite; the other, according to the execution, and this
belongs to the external operation. And so, although in him who has already gained the good
in which he delights, the movement of execution ceases, by which he tends to the end; yet the
movement of the appetitive faculty does not cease, since, just as before it desired that which
it had not, so afterwards does it delight in that which is possesses. For though delight is
a certain repose of the appetite, if we consider the presence of the pleasurable good that
satisfies the appetite, nevertheless there remains the impression made on the appetite by its
object, by reason of which delight is a kind of movement.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the name of passion is more appropriate to those passions which have
a corruptive and evil tendency, such as bodily ailments, as also sadness and fear in the soul;
yet some passions have a tendency to something good, as stated above (Q. 23, AA. 1, 4): and
in this sense delight is called a passion.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 2]

Whether Delight Is in Time?

Objection 1: It would seem that delight is in time. For "delight is a kind of movement," as
the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11). But all movement is in time. Therefore delight is in time.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing is said to last long and to be morose in respect of time. But some
pleasures are called morose. Therefore pleasure is in time.

Obj. 3: Further, the passions of the soul are of one same genus. But some passions of the soul
are in time. Therefore delight is too.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 4) that "no one takes pleasure according to time."

I answer that, A thing may be in time in two ways: first, by itself; secondly, by reason of
something else, and accidentally as it were. For since time is the measure of successive things,
those things are of themselves said to be in time, to which succession or something pertaining
to succession is essential: such are movement, repose, speech and such like. On the other hand,
those things are said to be in time, by reason of something else and not of themselves, to
which succession is not essential, but which are subject to something successive. Thus the
fact of being a man is not essentially something successive; since it is not a movement, but
the term of a movement or change, viz. of this being begotten: yet, because human being is
subject to changeable causes, in this respect, to be a man is in time.

Accordingly, we must say that delight, of itself indeed, is not in time: for it regards good
already gained, which is, as it were, the term of the movement. But if this good gained be
subject to change, the delight therein will be in time accidentally: whereas if it be altogether
unchangeable, the delight therein will not be in time, either by reason of itself or accidentally.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated in De Anima iii, 7, movement is twofold. One is "the act of something
imperfect, i.e. of something existing in potentiality, as such": this movement is successive
and is in time. Another movement is "the act of something perfect, i.e. of something existing
in act," e.g. to understand, to feel, and to will and such like, also to have delight. This
movement is not successive, nor is it of itself in time.

Reply Obj. 2: Delight is said to be long lasting or morose, according as it is accidentally
in time.

Reply Obj. 3: Other passions have not for their object a good obtained, as delight has. Wherefore
there is more of the movement of the imperfect in them than in delight. And consequently it
belongs more to delight not to be in time.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 3]

Whether Delight Differs from Joy?

Objection 1: It would seem that delight is altogether the same as joy. Because the passions
of the soul differ according to their objects. But delight and joy have the same object, namely,
a good obtained. Therefore joy is altogether the same as delight.

Obj. 2: Further, one movement does not end in two terms. But one and the same movement, that
of desire, ends in joy and delight. Therefore delight and joy are altogether the same.

Obj. 3: Further, if joy differs from delight, it seems that there is equal reason for distinguishing
gladness, exultation, and cheerfulness from delight, so that they would all be various passions
of the soul. But this seems to be untrue. Therefore joy does not differ from delight.

On the contrary, We do not speak of joy in irrational animals; whereas we do speak of delight
in them. Therefore joy is not the same as delight.

I answer that, Joy, as Avicenna states (De Anima iv), is a kind of delight. For we must observe
that, just as some concupiscences are natural, and some not natural, but consequent to reason,
as stated above (Q. 30, A. 3), so also some delights are natural, and some are not natural
but rational. Or, as Damascene (De Fide Orth. ii, 13) and Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat.
Hom. xviii.] put it, "some delights are of the body, some are of the soul"; which amounts to
the same. For we take delight both in those things which we desire naturally, when we get them,
and in those things which we desire as a result of reason. But we do not speak of joy except
when delight follows reason; and so we do not ascribe joy to irrational animals, but only delight.

Now whatever we desire naturally, can also be the object of reasoned desire and delight, but
not vice versa. Consequently whatever can be the object of delight, can also be the object
of joy in rational beings. And yet everything is not always the object of joy; since sometimes
one feels a certain delight in the body, without rejoicing thereat according to reason. And
accordingly delight extends to more things than does joy.

Reply Obj. 1: Since the object of the appetite of the soul is an apprehended good, diversity
of apprehension pertains, in a way, to diversity of the object. And so delights of the soul,
which are also called joys, are distinct from bodily delights, which are not called otherwise
than delights: as we have observed above in regard to concupiscences (Q. 30, A. 3, ad 2).

Reply Obj. 2: A like difference is to be observed in concupiscences also: so that delight corresponds
to concupiscence, while joy corresponds to desire, which seems to pertain more to concupiscence
of the soul. Hence there is a difference of repose corresponding to the difference of movement.

Reply Obj. 3: These other names pertaining to delight are derived from the effects of delight;
for laetitia (gladness) is derived from the "dilation" of the heart, as if one were to say
"latitia"; "exultation" is derived from the exterior signs of inward delight, which appear
outwardly in so far as the inward joy breaks forth from its bounds; and "cheerfulness" is so
called from certain special signs and effects of gladness. Yet all these names seem to belong
to joy; for we do not employ them save in speaking of rational beings.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 4]

Whether Delight Is in the Intellectual Appetite?

Objection 1: It would seem that delight is not in the intellectual appetite. Because the Philosopher
says (Rhet. i, 11) that "delight is a sensible movement." But sensible movement is not in an
intellectual power. Therefore delight is not in the intellectual appetite.

Obj. 2: Further, delight is a passion. But every passion is in the sensitive appetite. Therefore
delight is only in the sensitive appetite.

Obj. 3: Further, delight is common to us and to the irrational animals. Therefore it is not
elsewhere than in that power which we have in common with irrational animals.

On the contrary, It is written (Ps. 36:4): "Delight in the Lord." But the sensitive appetite
cannot reach to God; only the intellectual appetite can. Therefore delight can be in the intellectual
appetite.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), a certain delight arises from the apprehension of the
reason. Now on the reason apprehending something, not only the sensitive appetite is moved,
as regards its application to some particular thing, but also the intellectual appetite, which
is called the will. And accordingly in the intellectual appetite or will there is that delight
which is called joy, but not bodily delight.

However, there is this difference of delight in either power, that delight of the sensitive
appetite is accompanied by a bodily transmutation, whereas delight of the intellectual appetite
is nothing but the mere movement of the will. Hence Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 6) that
"desire and joy are nothing else but a volition of consent to the things we wish."

Reply Obj. 1: In this definition of the Philosopher, he uses the word "sensible" in its wide
acceptation for any kind of perception. For he says (Ethic. x, 4) that "delight is attendant
upon every sense, as it is also upon every act of the intellect and contemplation." Or we may
say that he is defining delight of the sensitive appetite.

Reply Obj. 2: Delight has the character of passion, properly speaking, when accompanied by
bodily transmutation. It is not thus in the intellectual appetite, but according to simple
movement: for thus it is also in God and the angels. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii,
14) that "God rejoices by one simple act": and Dionysius says at the end of De Coel. Hier.,
that "the angels are not susceptible to our passible delight, but rejoice together with God
with the gladness of incorruption."

Reply Obj. 3: In us there is delight, not only in common with dumb animals, but also in common
with angels. Wherefore Dionysius says (De Coel. Hier.) that "holy men often take part in the
angelic delights." Accordingly we have delight, not only in the sensitive appetite, which we
have in common with dumb animals, but also in the intellectual appetite, which we have in common
with the angels.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 5]

Whether Bodily and Sensible Pleasures Are Greater Than Spiritual and Intellectual Pleasures?

Objection 1: It would seem that bodily and sensible pleasures are greater than spiritual and
intelligible pleasures. For all men seek some pleasure, according to the Philosopher (Ethic.
x, 2, 4). But more seek sensible pleasures, than intelligible spiritual pleasures. Therefore
bodily pleasures are greater.

Obj. 2: Further, the greatness of a cause is known by its effect. But bodily pleasures have
greater effects; since "they alter the state of the body, and in some they cause madness" (Ethic.
vii, 3). Therefore bodily pleasures are greater.

Obj. 3: Further, bodily pleasures need to be tempered and checked, by reason of their vehemence:
whereas there is no need to check spiritual pleasures. Therefore bodily pleasures are greater.

On the contrary, It is written (Ps. 118:103): "How sweet are Thy words to my palate; more than
honey to my mouth!" And the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 7) that "the greatest pleasure is derived
from the operation of wisdom."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), pleasure arises from union with a suitable object perceived
or known. Now, in the operations of the soul, especially of the sensitive and intellectual
soul, it must be noted that, since they do not pass into outward matter, they are acts or perfections
of the agent, e.g. to understand, to feel, to will and the like: because actions which pass
into outward matter, are actions and perfections rather of the matter transformed; for "movement
is the act produced by the mover in the thing moved" (Phys. iii, 3). Accordingly the aforesaid
actions of the sensitive and intellectual soul, are themselves a certain good of the agent,
and are known by sense and intellect. Wherefore from them also does pleasure arise, and not
only from their objects.

If therefore we compare intellectual pleasures with sensible pleasures, according as we delight
in the very actions, for instance in sensitive and in intellectual knowledge; without doubt
intellectual pleasures are much greater than sensible pleasures. For man takes much more delight
in knowing something, by understanding it, than in knowing something by perceiving it with
his sense. Because intellectual knowledge is more perfect; and because it is better known,
since the intellect reflects on its own act more than sense does. Moreover intellectual knowledge
is more beloved: for there is no one who would not forfeit his bodily sight rather than his
intellectual vision, as beasts or fools are deprived thereof, as Augustine says in De Civ.
Dei (De Trin. xiv, 14).

If, however, intellectual spiritual pleasures be compared with sensible bodily pleasures, then,
in themselves and absolutely speaking, spiritual pleasures are greater. And this appears from
the consideration of the three things needed for pleasure, viz. the good which is brought into
conjunction, that to which it is conjoined, and the conjunction itself. For spiritual good
is both greater and more beloved than bodily good: a sign whereof is that men abstain from
even the greatest bodily pleasures, rather than suffer loss of honor which is an intellectual
good. Likewise the intellectual faculty is much more noble and more knowing than the sensitive
faculty. Also the conjunction is more intimate, more perfect and more firm. More intimate,
because the senses stop at the outward accidents of a thing, whereas the intellect penetrates
to the essence; for the object of the intellect is "what a thing is." More perfect, because
the conjunction of the sensible to the sense implies movement, which is an imperfect act: wherefore
sensible pleasures are not perceived all at once, but some part of them is passing away, while
some other part is looked forward to as yet to be realized, as is manifest in pleasures of
the table and in sexual pleasures: whereas intelligible things are without movement: hence
pleasures of this kind are realized all at once. More firm; because the objects of bodily pleasure
are corruptible, and soon pass away; whereas spiritual goods are incorruptible.

On the other hand, in relation to us, bodily pleasures are more vehement, for three reasons.
First, because sensible things are more known to us, than intelligible things. Secondly, because
sensible pleasures, through being passions of the sensitive appetite, are accompanied by some
alteration in the body: whereas this does not occur in spiritual pleasures, save by reason
of a certain reaction of the superior appetite on the lower. Thirdly, because bodily pleasures
are sought as remedies for bodily defects or troubles, whence various griefs arise. Wherefore
bodily pleasures, by reason of their succeeding griefs of this kind, are felt the more, and
consequently are welcomed more than spiritual pleasures, which have no contrary griefs, as
we shall state farther on (Q. 35, A. 5).

Reply Obj. 1: The reason why more seek bodily pleasures is because sensible goods are known
better and more generally: and, again, because men need pleasures as remedies for many kinds
of sorrow and sadness: and since the majority cannot attain spiritual pleasures, which are
proper to the virtuous, hence it is that they turn aside to seek those of the body.

Reply Obj. 2: Bodily transmutation arises more from bodily pleasures, inasmuch as they are
passions of the sensitive appetite.

Reply Obj. 3: Bodily pleasures are realized in the sensitive faculty which is governed by reason:
wherefore they need to be tempered and checked by reason. But spiritual pleasures are in the
mind, which is itself the rule: wherefore they are in themselves both sober and moderate.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 6]

Whether the Pleasures of Touch Are Greater Than the Pleasures Afforded by the Other Senses?

Objection 1: It would seem that the pleasures of touch are not greater than the pleasures afforded
by the other senses. Because the greatest pleasure seems to be that without which all joy is
at an end. But such is the pleasure afforded by the sight, according to the words of Tob. 5:12:
"What manner of joy shall be to me, who sit in darkness, and see not the light of heaven?"
Therefore the pleasure afforded by the sight is the greatest of sensible pleasures.

Obj. 2: Further, "every one finds treasure in what he loves," as the Philosopher says (Rhet.
i, 11). But "of all the senses the sight is loved most" [*Metaph. i, 1]. Therefore the greatest
pleasure seems to be afforded by sight.

Obj. 3: Further, the beginning of friendship which is for the sake of the pleasant is principally
sight. But pleasure is the cause of such friendship. Therefore the greatest pleasure seems
to be afforded by sight.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 10), that the greatest pleasures are those
which are afforded by the touch.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 25, A. 2, ad 1; Q. 27, A. 4, ad 1), everything gives pleasure
according as it is loved. Now, as stated in Metaph. i, 1, the senses are loved for two reasons:
for the purpose of knowledge, and on account of their usefulness. Wherefore the senses afford
pleasure in both these ways. But because it is proper to man to apprehend knowledge itself
as something good, it follows that the former pleasures of the senses, i.e. those which arise
from knowledge, are proper to man: whereas pleasures of the senses, as loved for their usefulness,
are common to all animals.

If therefore we speak of that sensible pleasure which is by reason of knowledge, it is evident
that the sight affords greater pleasure than any other sense. On the other hand, if we speak
of that sensible pleasure which is by reason of usefulness, then the greatest pleasure is afforded
by the touch. For the usefulness of sensible things is gauged by their relation to the preservation
of the animal's nature. Now the sensible objects of touch bear the closest relation to this
usefulness: for the touch takes cognizance of those things which are vital to an animal, namely,
of things hot and cold and the like. Wherefore in this respect, the pleasures of touch are
greater as being more closely related to the end. For this reason, too, other animals which
do not experience sensible pleasure save by reason of usefulness, derive no pleasure from the
other senses except as subordinated to the sensible objects of the touch: "for dogs do not
take delight in the smell of hares, but in eating them; . . . nor does the lion feel pleasure
in the lowing of an ox, but in devouring it" (Ethic. iii, 10).

Since then the pleasure afforded by touch is the greatest in respect of usefulness, and the
pleasure afforded by sight the greatest in respect of knowledge; if anyone wish to compare
these two, he will find that the pleasure of touch is, absolutely speaking, greater than the
pleasure of sight, so far as the latter remains within the limits of sensible pleasure. Because
it is evident that in everything, that which is natural is most powerful: and it is to these
pleasures of the touch that the natural concupiscences, such as those of food, sexual union,
and the like, are ordained. If, however, we consider the pleasures of sight, inasmuch sight
is the handmaid of the mind, then the pleasures of sight are greater, forasmuch as intellectual
pleasures are greater than sensible.

Reply Obj. 1: Joy, as stated above (A. 3), denotes pleasure of the soul; and this belongs principally
to the sight. But natural pleasure belongs principally to the touch.

Reply Obj. 2: The sight is loved most, "on account of knowledge, because it helps us to distinguish
many things," as is stated in the same passage (Metaph. i, 1).

Reply Obj. 3: Pleasure causes carnal love in one way; the sight, in another. For pleasure,
especially that which is afforded by the touch, is the final cause of the friendship which
is for the sake of the pleasant: whereas the sight is a cause like that from which a movement
has its beginning, inasmuch as the beholder on seeing the lovable object receives an impression
of its image, which entices him to love it and to seek its delight.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 7]

Whether Any Pleasure Is Not Natural?

Objection 1: It would seem that no pleasure is not natural. For pleasure is to the emotions
of the soul what repose is to bodies. But the appetite of a natural body does not repose save
in a connatural place. Neither, therefore, can the repose of the animal appetite, which is
pleasure, be elsewhere than in something connatural. Therefore no pleasure is non-natural.

Obj. 2: Further, what is against nature is violent. But "whatever is violent causes grief"
(Metaph. v, 5). Therefore nothing which is unnatural can give pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, the fact of being established in one's own nature, if perceived, gives rise
to pleasure, as is evident from the Philosopher's definition quoted above (A. 1). But it is
natural to every thing to be established in its nature; because natural movement tends to a
natural end. Therefore every pleasure is natural.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 5, 6) that some things are pleasant "not
from nature but from disease."

I answer that, We speak of that as being natural, which is in accord with nature, as stated
in Phys. ii, 1. Now, in man, nature can be taken in two ways. First, inasmuch as intellect
and reason is the principal part of man's nature, since in respect thereof he has his own specific
nature. And in this sense, those pleasures may be called natural to man, which are derived
from things pertaining to man in respect of his reason: for instance, it is natural to man
to take pleasure in contemplating the truth and in doing works of virtue. Secondly, nature
in man may be taken as contrasted with reason, and as denoting that which is common to man
and other animals, especially that part of man which does not obey reason. And in this sense,
that which pertains to the preservation of the body, either as regards the individual, as food,
drink, sleep, and the like, or as regards the species, as sexual intercourse, are said to afford
man natural pleasure. Under each kind of pleasures, we find some that are not natural speaking
absolutely, and yet connatural in some respect. For it happens in an individual that some one
of the natural principles of the species is corrupted, so that something which is contrary
to the specific nature, becomes accidentally natural to this individual: thus it is natural
to this hot water to give heat. Consequently it happens that something which is not natural
to man, either in regard to reason, or in regard to the preservation of the body, becomes connatural
to this individual man, on account of there being some corruption of nature in him. And this
corruption may be either on the part of the body--from some ailment; thus to a man suffering
from fever, sweet things seem bitter, and vice versa--or from an evil temperament; thus some
take pleasure in eating earth and coals and the like; or on the part of the soul; thus from
custom some take pleasure in cannibalism or in the unnatural intercourse of man and beast,
or other such things, which are not in accord with human nature.

This suffices for the answers to the objections.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 31, Art. 8]

Whether One Pleasure Can Be Contrary to Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that one pleasure cannot be contrary to another. Because the passions
of the soul derive their species and contrariety from their objects. Now the object of pleasure
is the good. Since therefore good is not contrary to good, but "good is contrary to evil, and
evil to good," as stated in Praedic. viii; it seems that one pleasure is not contrary to another.

Obj. 2: Further, to one thing there is one contrary, as is proved in Metaph. x, 4. But sadness
is contrary to pleasure. Therefore pleasure is not contrary to pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, if one pleasure is contrary to another, this is only on account of the contrariety
of the things which give pleasure. But this difference is material: whereas contrariety is
a difference of form, as stated in Metaph. x, 4. Therefore there is no contrariety between
one pleasure and another.

On the contrary, Things of the same genus that impede one another are contraries, as the Philosopher
states (Phys. viii, 8). But some pleasures impede one another, as stated in Ethic. x, 5. Therefore
some pleasures are contrary to one another.

I answer that, Pleasure, in the emotions of the soul, is likened to repose in natural bodies,
as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4). Now one repose is said to be contrary to another when they are
in contrary termini; thus, "repose in a high place is contrary to repose in a low place" (Phys.
v, 6). Wherefore it happens in the emotions of the soul that one pleasure is contrary to another.

Reply Obj. 1: This saying of the Philosopher is to be understood of good and evil as applied
to virtues and vices: because one vice may be contrary to another vice, whereas no virtue can
be contrary to another virtue. But in other things nothing prevents one good from being contrary
to another, such as hot and cold, of which the former is good in relation to fire, the latter,
in relation to water. And in this way one pleasure can be contrary to another. That this is
impossible with regard to the good of virtue, is due to the fact that virtue's good depends
on fittingness in relation to some one thing--i.e. the reason.

Reply Obj. 2: Pleasure, in the emotions of the soul, is likened to natural repose in bodies:
because its object is something suitable and connatural, so to speak. But sadness is like a
violent repose; because its object is disagreeable to the animal appetite, just as the place
of violent repose is disagreeable to the natural appetite. Now natural repose is contrary both
to violent repose of the same body, and to the natural repose of another, as stated in Phys.
v, 6. Wherefore pleasure is contrary to both to another pleasure and to sadness.

Reply Obj. 3: The things in which we take pleasure, since they are the objects of pleasure,
cause not only a material, but also a formal difference, if the formality of pleasurableness
be different. Because difference in the formal object causes a specific difference in acts
and passions, as stated above (Q. 23, AA. 1, 4; Q. 30, A. 2).

QUESTION 32

OF THE CAUSE OF PLEASURE (In Eight Articles)

We must now consider the causes of pleasure: and under this head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether operation is the proper cause of pleasure?

(2) Whether movement is a cause of pleasure?

(3) Whether hope and memory cause pleasure?

(4) Whether sadness causes pleasure?

(5) Whether the actions of others are a cause of pleasure to us?

(6) Whether doing good to another is a cause of pleasure?

(7) Whether likeness is a cause of pleasure?

(8) Whether wonder is a cause of pleasure?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 1]

Whether Operation Is the Proper Cause of Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that operation is not the proper and first cause of pleasure. For,
as the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11), "pleasure consists in a perception of the senses," since
knowledge is requisite for pleasure, as stated above (Q. 31, A. 1). But the objects of operations
are knowable before the operations themselves. Therefore operation is not the proper cause
of pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, pleasure consists especially in an end gained: since it is this that is chiefly
desired. But the end is not always an operation, but is sometimes the effect of the operation.
Therefore operation is not the proper and direct cause of pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, leisure and rest consist in cessation from work: and they are objects of pleasure
(Rhet. i, 11). Therefore operation is not the proper cause of pleasure.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 12, 13; x, 4) that "pleasure is a connatural
and uninterrupted operation."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 31, A. 1), two things are requisite for pleasure: namely,
the attainment of the suitable good, and knowledge of this attainment. Now each of these consists
in a kind of operation: because actual knowledge is an operation; and the attainment of the
suitable good is by means of an operation. Moreover, the proper operation itself is a suitable
good. Wherefore every pleasure must needs be the result of some operation.

Reply Obj. 1: The objects of operations are not pleasurable save inasmuch as they are united
to us; either by knowledge alone, as when we take pleasure in thinking of or looking at certain
things; or in some other way in addition to knowledge; as when a man takes pleasure in knowing
that he has something good--riches, honor, or the like; which would not be pleasurable unless
they were apprehended as possessed. For as the Philosopher observes (Polit. ii, 2) "we take
great pleasure in looking upon a thing as our own, by reason of the natural love we have for
ourselves." Now to have such like things is nothing else but to use them or to be able to use
them: and this is through some operation. Wherefore it is evident that every pleasure is traced
to some operation as its cause.

Reply Obj. 2: Even when it is not an operation, but the effect of an operation, that is the
end, this effect is pleasant in so far as possessed or effected: and this implies use or operation.

Reply Obj. 3: Operations are pleasant, in so far as they are proportionate and connatural to
the agent. Now, since human power is finite, operation is proportionate thereto according to
a certain measure. Wherefore if it exceed that measure, it will be no longer proportionate
or pleasant, but, on the contrary, painful and irksome. And in this sense, leisure and play
and other things pertaining to repose, are pleasant, inasmuch as they banish sadness which
results from labor.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 2]

Whether Movement Is a Cause of Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that movement is not a cause of pleasure. Because, as stated above
(Q. 31, A. 1), the good which is obtained and is actually possessed, is the cause of pleasure:
wherefore the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 12) that pleasure is not compared with generation,
but with the operation of a thing already in existence. Now that which is being moved towards
something has it not as yet; but, so to speak, is being generated in its regard, forasmuch
as generation or corruption are united to every movement, as stated in Phys. viii, 3. Therefore
movement is not a cause of pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, movement is the chief cause of toil and fatigue in our works. But operations
through being toilsome and fatiguing are not pleasant but disagreeable. Therefore movement
is not a cause of pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, movement implies a certain innovation, which is the opposite of custom. But
things "which we are accustomed to, are pleasant," as the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11). Therefore
movement is not a cause of pleasure.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Confess. viii, 3): "What means this, O Lord my God, whereas
Thou art everlasting joy to Thyself, and some things around Thee evermore rejoice in Thee?
What means this, that this portion of things ebbs and flows alternately displeased and reconciled?"
From these words we gather that man rejoices and takes pleasure in some kind of alterations:
and therefore movement seems to cause pleasure.

I answer that, Three things are requisite for pleasure; two, i.e. the one that is pleased and
the pleasurable object conjoined to him; and a third, which is knowledge of this conjunction:
and in respect of these three, movement is pleasant, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 14
and Rhetor. i, 11). For as far as we who feel pleasure are concerned, change is pleasant to
us because our nature is changeable: for which reason that which is suitable to us at one time
is not suitable at another; thus to warm himself at a fire is suitable to man in winter but
not in summer. Again, on the part of the pleasing good which is united to us, change is pleasant.
Because the continued action of an agent increases its effect: thus the longer a person remains
near the fire, the more he is warmed and dried. Now the natural mode of being consists in a
certain measure; and therefore when the continued presence of a pleasant object exceeds the
measure of one's natural mode of being, the removal of that object becomes pleasant. On the
part of the knowledge itself (change becomes pleasant), because man desires to know something
whole and perfect: when therefore a thing cannot be apprehended all at once as a whole, change
in such a thing is pleasant, so that one part may pass and another succeed, and thus the whole
be perceived. Hence Augustine says (Confess. iv, 11): "Thou wouldst not have the syllables
stay, but fly away, that others may come, and thou hear the whole. And so whenever any one
thing is made up of many, all of which do not exist together, all would please collectively
more than they do severally, if all could be perceived collectively."

If therefore there be any thing, whose nature is unchangeable; the natural mode of whose being
cannot be exceeded by the continuation of any pleasing object; and which can behold the whole
object of its delight at once--to such a one change will afford no delight. And the more any
pleasures approach to this, the more are they capable of being continual.

Reply Obj. 1: Although the subject of movement has not yet perfectly that to which it is moved,
nevertheless it is beginning to have something thereof: and in this respect movement itself
has something of pleasure. But it falls short of the perfection of pleasure; because the more
perfect pleasures regard things that are unchangeable. Moreover movement becomes the cause
of pleasure, in so far as thereby something which previously was unsuitable, becomes suitable
or ceases to be, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Movement causes toil and fatigue, when it exceeds our natural aptitude. It is
not thus that it causes pleasure, but by removing the obstacles to our natural aptitude.

Reply Obj. 3: What is customary becomes pleasant, in so far as it becomes natural: because
custom is like a second nature. But the movement which gives pleasure is not that which departs
from custom, but rather that which prevents the corruption of the natural mode of being, that
might result from continued operation. And thus from the same cause of connaturalness, both
custom and movement become pleasant.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 3]

Whether Hope and Memory Cause Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that memory and hope do not cause pleasure. Because pleasure is
caused by present good, as Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 12). But hope and memory regard
what is absent: since memory is of the past, and hope of the future. Therefore memory and hope
do not cause pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, the same thing is not the cause of contraries. But hope causes affliction,
according to Prov. 13:12: "Hope that is deferred afflicteth the soul." Therefore hope does
not cause pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, just as hope agrees with pleasure in regarding good, so also do desire and
love. Therefore hope should not be assigned as a cause of pleasure, any more than desire or love.

On the contrary, It is written (Rom. 12:12): "Rejoicing in hope"; and (Ps. 76:4): "I remembered
God, and was delighted."

I answer that, Pleasure is caused by the presence of suitable good, in so far as it is felt,
or perceived in any way. Now a thing is present to us in two ways. First, in knowledge--i.e.
according as the thing known is in the knower by its likeness; secondly, in reality--i.e. according
as one thing is in real conjunction of any kind with another, either actually or potentially.
And since real conjunction is greater than conjunction by likeness, which is the conjunction
of knowledge; and again, since actual is greater than potential conjunction: therefore the
greatest pleasure is that which arises from sensation which requires the presence of the sensible
object. The second place belongs to the pleasure of hope, wherein there is pleasurable conjunction,
not only in respect of apprehension, but also in respect of the faculty or power of obtaining
the pleasurable object. The third place belongs to the pleasure of memory, which has only the
conjunction of apprehension.

Reply Obj. 1: Hope and memory are indeed of things which, absolutely speaking, are absent:
and yet those are, after a fashion, present, i.e. either according to apprehension only; or
according to apprehension and possibility, at least supposed, of attainment.

Reply Obj. 2: Nothing prevents the same thing, in different ways, being the cause of contraries.
And so hope, inasmuch as it implies a present appraising of a future good, causes pleasure;
whereas, inasmuch as it implies absence of that good, it causes affliction.

Reply Obj. 3: Love and concupiscence also cause pleasure. For everything that is loved becomes
pleasing to the lover, since love is a kind of union or connaturalness of lover and beloved.
In like manner every object of desire is pleasing to the one that desires, since desire is
chiefly a craving for pleasure. However hope, as implying a certainty of the real presence
of the pleasing good, that is not implied either by love or by concupiscence, is reckoned in
preference to them as causing pleasure; and also in preference to memory, which is of that
which has already passed away.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 4]

Whether sadness causes pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that sadness does not cause pleasure. For nothing causes its own
contrary. But sadness is contrary to pleasure. Therefore it does not cause it.

Obj. 2: Further, contraries have contrary effects. But pleasures, when called to mind, cause
pleasure. Therefore sad things, when remembered, cause sorrow and not pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, as sadness is to pleasure, so is hatred to love. But hatred does not cause
love, but rather the other way about, as stated above (Q. 29, A. 2). Therefore sadness does
not cause pleasure.

On the contrary, It is written (Ps. 41:4): "My tears have been my bread day and night": where
bread denotes the refreshment of pleasure. Therefore tears, which arise from sadness, can give
pleasure.

I answer that, Sadness may be considered in two ways: as existing actually, and as existing
in the memory: and in both ways sadness can cause pleasure. Because sadness, as actually existing,
causes pleasure, inasmuch as it brings to mind that which is loved, the absence of which causes
sadness; and yet the mere thought of it gives pleasure. The recollection of sadness becomes
a cause of pleasure, on account of the deliverance which ensued: because absence of evil is
looked upon as something good; wherefore so far as a man thinks that he has been delivered
from that which caused him sorrow and pain, so much reason has he to rejoice. Hence Augustine
says in De Civ. Dei xxii, 31 [*Gregory, Moral. iv.] that "oftentimes in joy we call to mind
sad things . . . and in the season of health we recall past pains without feeling pain . .
. and in proportion are the more filled with joy and gladness": and again (Confess. viii, 3)
he says that "the more peril there was in the battle, so much the more joy will there be in
the triumph."

Reply Obj. 1: Sometimes accidentally a thing is the cause of its contrary: thus "that which
is cold sometimes causes heat," as stated in Phys. viii, 1. In like manner sadness is the accidental
cause of pleasure, in so far as it gives rise to the apprehension of something pleasant.

Reply Obj. 2: Sad things, called to mind, cause pleasure, not in so far as they are sad and
contrary to pleasant things; but in so far as man is delivered from them. In like manner the
recollection of pleasant things, by reason of these being lost, may cause sadness.

Reply Obj. 3: Hatred also can be the accidental cause of love: i.e. so far as some love one
another, inasmuch as they agree in hating one and the same thing.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 5]

Whether the Actions of Others Are a Cause of Pleasure to Us?

Objection 1: It would seem that the actions of others are not a cause of pleasure to us. Because
the cause of pleasure is our own good when conjoined to us. But the actions of others are not
conjoined to us. Therefore they are not a cause of pleasure to us.

Obj. 2: Further, the action is the agent's own good. If, therefore, the actions of others are
a cause of pleasure to us, for the same reason all goods belonging to others will be pleasing
to us: which is evidently untrue.

Obj. 3: Further, action is pleasant through proceeding from an innate habit; hence it is stated
in Ethic. ii, 3 that "we must reckon the pleasure which follows after action, as being the
sign of a habit existing in us." But the actions of others do not proceed from habits existing
in us, but, sometimes, from habits existing in the agents. Therefore the actions of others
are not pleasing to us, but to the agents themselves.

On the contrary, It is written in the second canonical epistle of John (verse 4): "I was exceeding
glad that I found thy children walking in truth."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1; Q. 31, A. 1), two things are requisite for pleasure,
namely, the attainment of one's proper good, and the knowledge of having obtained it. Wherefore
the action of another may cause pleasure to us in three ways. First, from the fact that we
obtain some good through the action of another. And in this way, the actions of those who do
some good to us, are pleasing to us: since it is pleasant to be benefited by another. Secondly,
from the fact that another's action makes us to know or appreciate our own good: and for this
reason men take pleasure in being praised or honored by others, because, to wit, they thus
become aware of some good existing in themselves. And since this appreciation receives greater
weight from the testimony of good and wise men, hence men take greater pleasure in being praised
and honored by them. And because a flatterer appears to praise, therefore flattery is pleasing
to some. And as love is for something good, while admiration is for something great, so it
is pleasant to be loved and admired by others, inasmuch as a man thus becomes aware of his
own goodness or greatness, through their giving pleasure to others. Thirdly, from the fact
that another's actions, if they be good, are reckoned as one's own good, by reason of the power
of love, which makes a man to regard his friend as one with himself. And on account of hatred,
which makes one to reckon another's good as being in opposition to oneself, the evil action
of an enemy becomes an object of pleasure: whence it is written (1 Cor. 13:6) that charity
"rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth with the truth."

Reply Obj. 1: Another's action may be conjoined to me, either by its effect, as in the first
way, or by knowledge, as in the second way; or by affection, as in the third way.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument avails for the third mode, but not for the first two.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the actions of another do not proceed from habits that are in me, yet
they either produce in me something that gives pleasure; or they make me appreciate or know
a habit of mind; or they proceed from the habit of one who is united to me by love.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 6]

Whether Doing Good to Another Is a Cause of Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that doing good to another is not a cause of pleasure. Because pleasure
is caused by one's obtaining one's proper good, as stated above (AA. 1, 5; Q. 31, A. 1). But
doing good pertains not to the obtaining but to the spending of one's proper good. Therefore
it seems to be the cause of sadness rather than of pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 1) that "illiberality is more connatural
to man than prodigality." Now it is a mark of prodigality to do good to others; while it is
a mark of illiberality to desist from doing good. Since therefore everyone takes pleasure in
a connatural operation, as stated in Ethic. vii, 14 and x, 4, it seems that doing good to others
is not a cause of pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, contrary effects proceed from contrary causes. But man takes a natural pleasure
in certain kinds of ill-doing, such as overcoming, contradicting or scolding others, or, if
he be angry, in punishing them, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11). Therefore doing good
to others is a cause of sadness rather than pleasure.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Polit. ii, 2) that "it is most pleasant to give presents
or assistance to friends and strangers."

I answer that, Doing good to another may give pleasure in three ways. First, in consideration
of the effect, which is the good conferred on another. In this respect, inasmuch as through
being united to others by love, we look upon their good as being our own, we take pleasure
in the good we do to others, especially to our friends, as in our own good. Secondly, in consideration
of the end; as when a man, from doing good to another, hopes to get some good for himself,
either from God or from man: for hope is a cause of pleasure. Thirdly, in consideration of
the principle: and thus, doing good to another, can give pleasure in respect of a threefold
principle. One is the faculty of doing good: and in this regard, doing good to another becomes
pleasant, in so far as it arouses in man an imagination of abundant good existing in him, whereof
he is able to give others a share. Wherefore men take pleasure in their children, and in their
own works, as being things on which they bestow a share of their own good. Another principle
is man's habitual inclination to do good, by reason of which doing good becomes connatural
to him: for which reason the liberal man takes pleasure in giving to others. The third principle
is the motive: for instance when a man is moved by one whom he loves, to do good to someone:
for whatever we do or suffer for a friend is pleasant, because love is the principal cause
of pleasure.

Reply Obj. 1: Spending gives pleasure as showing forth one's good. But in so far as it empties
us of our own good it may be a cause of sadness; for instance when it is excessive.

Reply Obj. 2: Prodigality is an excessive spending, which is unnatural: wherefore prodigality
is said to be contrary to nature.

Reply Obj. 3: To overcome, to contradict, and to punish, give pleasure, not as tending to another's
ill, but as pertaining to one's own good, which man loves more than he hates another's ill.
For it is naturally pleasant to overcome, inasmuch as it makes a man to appreciate his own
superiority. Wherefore all those games in which there is a striving for the mastery, and a
possibility of winning it, afford the greatest pleasure: and speaking generally all contests,
in so far as they admit hope of victory. To contradict and to scold can give pleasure in two
ways. First, as making man imagine himself to be wise and excellent; since it belongs to wise
men and elders to reprove and to scold. Secondly, in so far as by scolding and reproving, one
does good to another: for this gives one pleasure, as stated above. It is pleasant to an angry
man to punish, in so far as he thinks himself to be removing an apparent slight, which seems
to be due to a previous hurt: for when a man is hurt by another, he seems to be slighted thereby;
and therefore he wishes to be quit of this slight by paying back the hurt. And thus it is clear
that doing good to another may be of itself pleasant: whereas doing evil to another is not
pleasant, except in so far as it seems to affect one's own good.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 7]

Whether Likeness Is a Cause of Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that likeness is not a cause of pleasure. Because ruling and presiding
seem to imply a certain unlikeness. But "it is natural to take pleasure in ruling and presiding,"
as stated in Rhetor. i, 11. Therefore unlikeness, rather than likeness, is a cause of pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing is more unlike pleasure than sorrow. But those who are burdened by
sorrow are most inclined to seek pleasures, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 14). Therefore
unlikeness, rather than likeness, is a cause of pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, those who are satiated with certain delights, derive not pleasure but disgust
from them; as when one is satiated with food. Therefore likeness is not a cause of pleasure.

On the contrary, Likeness is a cause of love, as above stated (Q. 27, A. 3): and love is the
cause of pleasure. Therefore likeness is a cause of pleasure.

I answer that, Likeness is a kind of unity; hence that which is like us, as being one with
us, causes pleasure; just at it causes love, as stated above (Q. 27, A. 3). And if that which
is like us does not hurt our own good, but increase it, it is pleasurable simply; for instance
one man in respect of another, one youth in relation to another. But if it be hurtful to our
own good, thus accidentally it causes disgust or sadness, not as being like and one with us,
but as hurtful to that which is yet more one with us.

Now it happens in two ways that something like is hurtful to our own good. First, by destroying
the measure of our own good, by a kind of excess; because good, especially bodily good, as
health, is conditioned by a certain measure: wherefore superfluous good or any bodily pleasure,
causes disgust. Secondly, by being directly contrary to one's own good: thus a potter dislikes
other potters, not because they are potters, but because they deprive him of his own excellence
or profits, which he seeks as his own good.

Reply Obj. 1: Since ruler and subject are in communion with one another, there is a certain
likeness between them: but this likeness is conditioned by a certain superiority, since ruling
and presiding pertain to the excellence of a man's own good: because they belong to men who
are wise and better than others; the result being that they give man an idea of his own excellence.
Another reason is that by ruling and presiding, a man does good to others, which is pleasant.

Reply Obj. 2: That which gives pleasure to the sorrowful man, though it be unlike sorrow, bears
some likeness to the man that is sorrowful: because sorrows are contrary to his own good. Wherefore
the sorrowful man seeks pleasure as making for his own good, in so far as it is a remedy for
its contrary. And this is why bodily pleasures, which are contrary to certain sorrows, are
more sought than intellectual pleasures, which have no contrary sorrow, as we shall state later
on (Q. 35, A. 5). And this explains why all animals naturally desire pleasure: because animals
ever work through sense and movement. For this reason also young people are most inclined to
seek pleasures; on account of the many changes to which they are subject, while yet growing.
Moreover this is why the melancholic has a strong desire for pleasures, in order to drive away
sorrow: because his "body is corroded by a base humor," as stated in Ethic. vii, 14.

Reply Obj. 3: Bodily goods are conditioned by a certain fixed measure: wherefore surfeit of
such things destroys the proper good, and consequently gives rise to disgust and sorrow, through
being contrary to the proper good of man.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 32, Art. 8]

Whether Wonder Is a Cause of Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that wonder is not a cause of pleasure. Because wonder is the act
of one who is ignorant of the nature of something, as Damascene says. But knowledge, rather
than ignorance, is a cause of pleasure. Therefore wonder is not a cause of pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, wonder is the beginning of wisdom, being as it were, the road to the search
of truth, as stated in the beginning of Metaph. i, 2. But "it is more pleasant to think of
what we know, than to seek what we know not," as the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 7): since
in the latter case we encounter difficulties and hindrances, in the former not; while pleasure
arises from an operation which is unhindered, as stated in Ethic. vii, 12, 13. Therefore wonder
hinders rather than causes pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, everyone takes pleasure in what he is accustomed to: wherefore the actions
of habits acquired by custom, are pleasant. But "we wonder at what is unwonted," as Augustine
says (Tract. xxiv in Joan.). Therefore wonder is contrary to the cause of pleasure.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11) that wonder is the cause of pleasure.

I answer that, It is pleasant to get what one desires, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4): and therefore
the greater the desire for the thing loved, the greater the pleasure when it is attained: indeed
the very increase of desire brings with it an increase of pleasure, according as it gives rise
to the hope of obtaining that which is loved, since it was stated above (A. 3, ad 3) that desire
resulting from hope is a cause of pleasure. Now wonder is a kind of desire for knowledge; a
desire which comes to man when he sees an effect of which the cause either is unknown to him,
or surpasses his knowledge or faculty of understanding. Consequently wonder is a cause of pleasure,
in so far as it includes a hope of getting the knowledge which one desires to have. For this
reason whatever is wonderful is pleasing, for instance things that are scarce. Also, representations
of things, even of those which are not pleasant in themselves, give rise to pleasure; for the
soul rejoices in comparing one thing with another, because comparison of one thing with another
is the proper and connatural act of the reason, as the Philosopher says (Poet. iv). This again
is why "it is more delightful to be delivered from great danger, because it is something wonderful,"
as stated in Rhetor. i, 11.

Reply Obj. 1: Wonder gives pleasure, not because it implies ignorance, but in so far as it
includes the desire of learning the cause, and in so far as the wonderer learns something new,
i.e. that the cause is other than he had thought it to be. [*According to another reading:--that
he is other than he thought himself to be.]

Reply Obj. 2: Pleasure includes two things; rest in the good, and perception of this rest.
As to the former therefore, since it is more perfect to contemplate the known truth, than to
seek for the unknown, the contemplation of what we know, is in itself more pleasing than the
research of what we do not know. Nevertheless, as to the second, it happens that research is
sometimes more pleasing accidentally, in so far as it proceeds from a greater desire: for greater
desire is awakened when we are conscious of our ignorance. This is why man takes the greatest
pleasure in finding or learning things for the first time.

Reply Obj. 3: It is pleasant to do what we are wont to do, inasmuch as this is connatural to
us, as it were. And yet things that are of rare occurrence can be pleasant, either as regards
knowledge, from the fact that we desire to know something about them, in so far as they are
wonderful; or as regards action, from the fact that "the mind is more inclined by desire to
act intensely in things that are new," as stated in Ethic. x, 4, since more perfect operation
causes more perfect pleasure.

QUESTION 33

OF THE EFFECTS OF PLEASURE (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the effects of pleasure; and under this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether expansion is an effect of pleasure?

(2) Whether pleasure causes thirst or desire for itself?

(3) Whether pleasure hinders the use of reason?

(4) Whether pleasure perfects operation?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 33, Art. 1]

Whether Expansion Is an Effect of Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that expansion is not an effect of pleasure. For expansion seems
to pertain more to love, according to the Apostle (2 Cor. 6:11): "Our heart is enlarged." Wherefore
it is written (Ps. 118:96) concerning the precept of charity: "Thy commandment is exceeding
broad." But pleasure is a distinct passion from love. Therefore expansion is not an effect
of pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, when a thing expands it is enabled to receive more. But receiving pertains
to desire, which is for something not yet possessed. Therefore expansion seems to belong to
desire rather than to pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, contraction is contrary to expansion. But contraction seems to belong to pleasure,
for the hand closes on that which we wish to grasp firmly: and such is the affection of appetite
in regard to that which pleases it. Therefore expansion does not pertain to pleasure.

On the contrary, In order to express joy, it is written (Isa. 60:5): "Thou shall see and abound,
thy heart shall wonder and be enlarged." Moreover pleasure is called by the name of "laetitia"
as being derived from "dilatatio" (expansion), as stated above (Q. 31, A. 3, ad 3).

I answer that, Breadth (latitudo)is a dimension of bodily magnitude: hence it is not applied
to the emotions of the soul, save metaphorically. Now expansion denotes a kind of movement
towards breadth; and it belongs to pleasure in respect of the two things requisite for pleasure.
One of these is on the part of the apprehensive power, which is cognizant of the conjunction
with some suitable good. As a result of this apprehension, man perceives that he has attained
a certain perfection, which is a magnitude of the spiritual order: and in this respect man's
mind is said to be magnified or expanded by pleasure. The other requisite for pleasure is on
the part of the appetitive power, which acquiesces in the pleasurable object, and rests therein,
offering, as it were, to enfold it within itself. And thus man's affection is expanded by pleasure,
as though it surrendered itself to hold within itself the object of its pleasure.

Reply Obj. 1: In metaphorical expressions nothing hinders one and the same thing from being
attributed to different things according to different likenesses. And in this way expansion
pertains to love by reason of a certain spreading out, in so far as the affection of the lover
spreads out to others, so as to care, not only for his own interests, but also for what concerns
others. On the other hand expansion pertains to pleasure, in so far as a thing becomes more
ample in itself so as to become more capacious.

Reply Obj. 2: Desire includes a certain expansion arising from the imagination of the thing
desired; but this expansion increases at the presence of the pleasurable object: because the
mind surrenders itself more to that object when it is already taking pleasure in it, than when
it desires it before possessing it; since pleasure is the end of desire.

Reply Obj. 3: He that takes pleasure in a thing holds it fast, by clinging to it with all his
might: but he opens his heart to it that he may enjoy it perfectly.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 33, Art. 2]

Whether Pleasure Causes Thirst or Desire for Itself?

Objection 1: It would seem that pleasure does not cause desire for itself. Because all movement
ceases when repose is reached. But pleasure is, as it were, a certain repose of the movement
of desire, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4; Q. 25, A. 2). Therefore the movement of desire ceases
when pleasure is reached. Therefore pleasure does not cause desire.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing does not cause its contrary. But pleasure is, in a way, contrary to
desire, on the part of the object: since desire regards a good which is not yet possessed,
whereas pleasure regards the good that is possessed. Therefore pleasure does not cause desire
for itself.

Obj. 3: Further, distaste is incompatible with desire. But pleasure often causes distaste.
Therefore it does not cause desire.

On the contrary, Our Lord said (John 4:13): "Whosoever drinketh of this water, shall thirst
again": where, according to Augustine (Tract. xv in Joan.), water denotes pleasures of the body.

I answer that, Pleasure can be considered in two ways; first, as existing in reality; secondly,
as existing in the memory. Again thirst, or desire, can be taken in two ways; first, properly,
as denoting a craving for something not possessed; secondly, in general, as excluding distaste.

Considered as existing in reality, pleasure does not of itself cause thirst or desire for itself,
but only accidentally; provided we take thirst or desire as denoting a craving for some thing
not possessed: because pleasure is an emotion of the appetite in respect of something actually
present. But it may happen that what is actually present is not perfectly possessed: and this
may be on the part of the thing possessed, or on the part of the possessor. On the part of
the thing possessed, this happens through the thing possessed not being a simultaneous whole;
wherefore one obtains possession of it successively, and while taking pleasure in what one
has, one desires to possess the remainder: thus if a man is pleased with the first part of
a verse, he desires to hear the second part, as Augustine says (Confess. iv, 11). In this way
nearly all bodily pleasures cause thirst for themselves, until they are fully realized, because
pleasures of this kind arise from some movement: as is evident in pleasures of the table. On
the part of the possessor, this happens when a man possesses a thing which is perfect in itself,
yet does not possess it perfectly, but obtains possession of it little by little. Thus in this
life, a faint perception of Divine knowledge affords us delight, and delight sets up a thirst
or desire for perfect knowledge; in which sense we may understand the words of Ecclus. 24:29:
"They that drink me shall yet thirst."

On the other hand, if by thirst or desire we understand the mere intensity of the emotion,
that excludes distaste, thus more than all others spiritual pleasures cause thirst or desire
for themselves. Because bodily pleasures become distasteful by reason of their causing an excess
in the natural mode of being, when they are increased or even when they are protracted; as
is evident in the case of pleasures of the table. This is why, when a man arrives at the point
of perfection in bodily pleasures, he wearies of them, and sometimes desires another kind.
Spiritual pleasures, on the contrary, do not exceed the natural mode of being, but perfect
nature. Hence when their point of perfection is reached, then do they afford the greatest delight:
except, perchance, accidentally, in so far as the work of contemplation is accompanied by some
operation of the bodily powers, which tire from protracted activity. 1:12) that they "desire
to look at Him."

Lastly, if we consider pleasure, not as existing in reality, but as existing in the memory,
thus it has of itself a natural tendency to cause thirst and desire for itself: when, to wit,
man returns to that disposition, in which he was when he experienced the pleasure that is past.
But if he be changed from that disposition, the memory of that pleasure does not give him pleasure,
but distaste: for instance, the memory of food in respect of a man who has eaten to repletion.

Reply Obj. 1: When pleasure is perfect, then it includes complete rest; and the movement of
desire, tending to what was not possessed, ceases. But when it is imperfect, then the desire,
tending to what was not possessed, does not cease altogether.

Reply Obj. 2: That which is possessed imperfectly, is possessed in one respect, and in another
respect is not possessed. Consequently it may be the object of desire and pleasure at the same
time.

Reply Obj. 3: Pleasures cause distaste in one way, desire in another, as stated above.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 33, Art. 3]

Whether Pleasure Hinders the Use of Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that pleasure does not hinder the use of reason. Because repose
facilitates very much the due use of reason: wherefore the Philosopher says (Phys. vii, 3)
that "while we sit and rest, the soul is inclined to knowledge and prudence"; and it is written
(Wis. 8:16): "When I go into my house, I shall repose myself with her," i.e. wisdom. But pleasure
is a kind of repose. Therefore it helps rather than hinders the use of reason.

Obj. 2: Further, things which are not in the same subject though they be contraries, do not
hinder one another. But pleasure is in the appetitive faculty, while the use of reason is in
the apprehensive power. Therefore pleasure does not hinder the use of reason.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is hindered by another, seems to be moved, as it were, thereby.
But the use of an apprehensive power moves pleasure rather than is moved by it: because it
is the cause of pleasure. Therefore pleasure does not hinder the use of reason.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vi, 5), that "pleasure destroys the estimate
of prudence."

I answer that, As is stated in Ethic. x, 5, "appropriate pleasures increase activity . . .
whereas pleasures arising from other sources are impediments to activity." Accordingly there
is a certain pleasure that is taken in the very act of reason, as when one takes pleasure in
contemplating or in reasoning: and such pleasure does not hinder the act of reason, but helps
it; because we are more attentive in doing that which gives us pleasure, and attention fosters
activity.

On the other hand bodily pleasures hinder the use of reason in three ways. First, by distracting
the reason. Because, as we have just observed, we attend much to that which pleases us. Now
when the attention is firmly fixed on one thing, it is either weakened in respect of other
things, or it is entirely withdrawn from them; and thus if the bodily pleasure be great, either
it entirely hinders the use of reason, by concentrating the mind's attention on itself; or
else it hinders it considerably. Secondly, by being contrary to reason. Because some pleasures,
especially those that are in excess, are contrary to the order of reason: and in this sense
the Philosopher says that "bodily pleasures destroy the estimate of prudence, but not the speculative
estimate," to which they are not opposed, "for instance that the three angles of a triangle
are together equal to two right angles." In the first sense, however, they hinder both estimates.
Thirdly, by fettering the reason: in so far as bodily pleasure is followed by a certain alteration
in the body, greater even than in the other passions, in proportion as the appetite is more
vehemently affected towards a present than towards an absent thing. Now such bodily disturbances
hinder the use of reason; as may be seen in the case of drunkards, in whom the use of reason
is fettered or hindered.

Reply Obj. 1: Bodily pleasure implies indeed repose of the appetite in the object of pleasure;
which repose is sometimes contrary to reason; but on the part of the body it always implies
alteration. And in respect of both points, it hinders the use of reason.

Reply Obj. 2: The powers of the appetite and of apprehension are indeed distinct parts, but
belonging to the one soul. Consequently when the soul is very intent on the action of one part,
it is hindered from attending to a contrary act of the other part.

Reply Obj. 3: The use of reason requires the due use of the imagination and of the other sensitive
powers, which are exercised through a bodily organ. Consequently alteration in the body hinders
the use of reason, because it hinders the act of the imagination and of the other sensitive powers.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 33, Art. 4]

Whether Pleasure Perfects Operation?

Objection 1: It would seem that pleasure does not perfect operation. For every human operation
depends on the use of reason. But pleasure hinders the use of reason, as stated above (A. 3).
Therefore pleasure does not perfect, but weakens human operation.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing perfects itself or its cause. But pleasure is an operation (Ethic.
vii, 12; x, 4), i.e. either in its essence or in its cause. Therefore pleasure does not perfect
operation.

Obj. 3: Further, if pleasure perfects operation, it does so either as end, or as form, or as
agent. But not as end; because operation is not sought for the sake of pleasure, but rather
the reverse, as stated above (Q. 4, A. 2): nor as agent, because rather is it the operation
that causes pleasure: nor again as form, because, according to the Philosopher (Ethic. x, 4),
"pleasure does not perfect operation, as a habit does." Therefore pleasure does not perfect
operation.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 4) that "pleasure perfects operation."

I answer that, Pleasure perfects operation in two ways. First, as an end: not indeed according
as an end is that on "account of which a thing is"; but according as every good which is added
to a thing and completes it, can be called its end. And in this sense the Philosopher says
(Ethic. x, 4) that "pleasure perfects operation . . . as some end added to it": that is to
say, inasmuch as to this good, which is operation, there is added another good, which is pleasure,
denoting the repose of the appetite in a good that is presupposed. Secondly, as agent; not
indeed directly, for the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 4) that "pleasure perfects operation,
not as a physician makes a man healthy, but as health does": but it does so indirectly; inasmuch
as the agent, through taking pleasure in his action, is more eagerly intent on it, and carries
it out with greater care. And in this sense it is said in Ethic. x, 5 that "pleasures increase
their appropriate activities, and hinder those that are not appropriate."

Reply Obj. 1: It is not every pleasure that hinders the act of reason, but only bodily pleasure;
for this arises, not from the act of reason, but from the act of the concupiscible faculty,
which act is intensified by pleasure. On the contrary, pleasure that arises from the act of
reason, strengthens the use of reason.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated in Phys. ii, 3 two things may be causes of one another, if one be the
efficient, the other the final cause. And in this way, operation is the efficient cause of
pleasure, while pleasure perfects operation by way of final cause, as stated above.

The Reply to the Third Objection is evident for what has been said.

QUESTION 34

OF THE GOODNESS AND MALICE OF PLEASURES (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the goodness and malice of pleasures: under which head there are four
points of inquiry:

(1) Whether every pleasure is evil?

(2) If not, whether every pleasure is good?

(3) Whether any pleasure is the greatest good?

(4) Whether pleasure is the measure or rule by which to judge of moral good and evil?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 34, Art. 1]

Whether Every Pleasure Is Evil?

Objection 1: It would seem that every pleasure is evil. But pleasure destroys prudence and
hinders the use of reason; and so much the more, as the pleasure is greater: wherefore "in
sexual pleasures," which are the greatest of all, "it is impossible to understand anything,"
as stated in Ethic. vii, 11. Moreover, Jerome says in his commentary on Matthew [*Origen, Hom.
vi in Num.] that "at the time of conjugal intercourse, the presence of the Holy Ghost is not
vouchsafed, even if it be a prophet that fulfils the conjugal duty." Therefore pleasure is
evil in itself; and consequently every pleasure is evil.

Obj. But children and dumb animals, in whom there is no virtue, seek pleasure: whereas the
man who is master of himself does not. Therefore pleasures are evil in themselves and should
be avoided.

Obj. 3: Further, "virtue and art are concerned about the difficult and the good" (Ethic. ii,
3). But no art is ordained to pleasure. Therefore pleasure is not something good.

On the contrary, It is written (Ps. 36:4): "Delight in the Lord." Since, therefore, Divine
authority leads to no evil, it seems that not every pleasure is evil.

I answer that, As stated in Ethic. x, 2, 3, some have maintained that all pleasure is evil.
The reason seems to have been that they took account only of sensible and bodily pleasures
which are more manifest; since, also in other respects, the ancient philosophers did not discriminate
between the intelligible and the sensible, nor between intellect and sense (De Anima iii, 3).
And they held that all bodily pleasures should be reckoned as bad, and thus that man, being
prone to immoderate pleasures, arrives at the mean of virtue by abstaining from pleasure. But
they were wrong in holding this opinion. Because, since none can live without some sensible
and bodily pleasure, if they who teach that all pleasures are evil, are found in the act of
taking pleasure; men will be more inclined to pleasure by following the example of their works
instead of listening to the doctrine of their words: since, in human actions and passions,
wherein experience is of great weight, example moves more than words.

We must therefore say that some pleasures are good, and that some are evil. For pleasure is
a repose of the appetitive power in some loved good, and resulting from some operation; wherefore
we assign a twofold reason for this assertion. The first is in respect of the good in which
a man reposes with pleasure. For good and evil in the moral order depend on agreement or disagreement
with reason, as stated above (Q. 18, A. 5): just as in the order of nature, a thing is said
to be natural, if it agrees with nature, and unnatural, if it disagrees. Accordingly, just
as in the natural order there is a certain natural repose, whereby a thing rests in that which
agrees with its nature, for instance, when a heavy body rests down below; and again an unnatural
repose, whereby a thing rests in that which disagrees with its nature, as when a heavy body
rests up aloft: so, in the moral order, there is a good pleasure, whereby the higher or lower
appetite rests in that which is in accord with reason; and an evil pleasure, whereby the appetite
rests in that which is discordant from reason and the law of God.

The second reason can be found by considering the actions, some of which are good, some evil.
Now pleasures which are conjoined to actions are more akin to those actions, than desires,
which precede them in point of time. Wherefore, since the desires of good actions are good,
and of evil actions, evil; much more are the pleasures of good actions good, and those of evil
actions evil.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (Q. 33, A. 3), it is not the pleasures which result from an act
of reason, that hinder the reason or destroy prudence, but extraneous pleasures, such as the
pleasures of the body. These indeed hinder the use of reason, as stated above (Q. 33, A. 3),
either by contrariety of the appetite that rests in something repugnant to reason, which makes
the pleasure morally bad; or by fettering the reason: thus in conjugal intercourse, though
the pleasure be in accord with reason, yet it hinders the use of reason, on account of the
accompanying bodily change. But in this case the pleasure is not morally evil; as neither is
sleep, whereby the reason is fettered, morally evil, if it be taken according to reason: for
reason itself demands that the use of reason be interrupted at times. We must add, however,
that although this fettering of the reason through the pleasure of conjugal intercourse has
no moral malice, since it is neither a mortal nor a venial sin; yet it proceeds from a kind
of moral malice, namely, from the sin of our first parent; because, as stated in the First
Part (Q. 98, A. 2) the case was different in the state of innocence.

Reply Obj. 2: The temperate man does not shun all pleasures, but those that are immoderate,
and contrary to reason. The fact that children and dumb animals seek pleasures, does not prove
that all pleasures are evil: because they have from God their natural appetite, which is moved
to that which is naturally suitable to them.

Reply Obj. 3: Art is not concerned with all kinds of good, but with the making of external
things, as we shall state further on (Q. 57, A. 3). But actions and passions, which are within
us, are more the concern of prudence and virtue than of art. Nevertheless there is an art of
making pleasure, namely, "the art of cookery and the art of making arguments," as stated in
Ethic. vii, 12.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 34, Art. 2]

Whether Every Pleasure Is Good?

Objection 1: It would seem that every pleasure is good. Because as stated in the First Part
(Q. 5, A. 6) there are three kinds of good: the virtuous, the useful, and the pleasant. But
everything virtuous is good; and in like manner everything useful is good. Therefore also every
pleasure is good.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is not sought for the sake of something else, is good in itself,
as stated in Ethic. i, 6, 7. But pleasure is not sought for the sake of something else; for
it seems absurd to ask anyone why he seeks to be pleased. Therefore pleasure is good in itself.
Now that which is predicated of a thing considered in itself, is predicated thereof universally.
Therefore every pleasure is good.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is desired by all, seems to be good of itself: because good is
"what all things seek," as stated in Ethic. i, 1. But everyone seeks some kind of pleasure,
even children and dumb animals. Therefore pleasure is good in itself: and consequently all
pleasure is good.

I answer that, While some of the Stoics maintained that all pleasures are evil, the Epicureans
held that pleasure is good in itself, and that consequently all pleasures are good. They seem
to have thus erred through not discriminating between that which is good simply, and that which
is good in respect of a particular individual. That which is good simply, is good in itself.
Now that which is not good in itself, may be good in respect of some individual in two ways.
In one way, because it is suitable to him by reason of a disposition in which he is now, which
disposition, however, is not natural: thus it is sometimes good for a leper to eat things that
are poisonous, which are not suitable simply to the human temperament. In another way, through
something unsuitable being esteemed suitable. And since pleasure is the repose of the appetite
in some good, if the appetite reposes in that which is good simply, the pleasure will be pleasure
simply, and good simply. But if a man's appetite repose in that which is good, not simply,
but in respect of that particular man, then his pleasure will not be pleasure simply, but a
pleasure to him; neither will it be good simply, but in a certain respect, or an apparent good.

Reply Obj. 1: The virtuous and the useful depend on accordance with reason, and consequently
nothing is virtuous or useful, without being good. But the pleasant depends on agreement with
the appetite, which tends sometimes to that which is discordant from reason. Consequently not
every object of pleasure is good in the moral order which depends on the order of reason.

Reply Obj. 2: The reason why pleasure is not sought for the sake of something else is because
it is repose in the end. Now the end may be either good or evil; although nothing can be an
end except in so far as it is good in respect of such and such a man: and so too with regard
to pleasure.

Reply Obj. 3: All things seek pleasure in the same way as they seek good: since pleasure is
the repose of the appetite in good. But, just as it happens that not every good which is desired,
is of itself and verily good; so not every pleasure is of itself and verily good.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 34, Art. 3]

Whether Any Pleasure Is the Greatest Good?

Objection 1: It would seem that no pleasure is the greatest good. Because nothing generated
is the greatest good: since generation cannot be the last end. But pleasure is a consequence
of generation: for the fact that a thing takes pleasure is due to its being established in
its own nature, as stated above (Q. 31, A. 1). Therefore no pleasure is the greatest good.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is the greatest good cannot be made better by addition. But pleasure
is made better by addition; since pleasure together with virtue is better than pleasure without
virtue. Therefore pleasure is not the greatest good.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is the greatest good is universally good, as being good of itself:
since that which is such of itself is prior to and greater than that which is such accidentally.
But pleasure is not universally good, as stated above (A. 2). Therefore pleasure is not the
greatest good.

On the contrary, Happiness is the greatest good: since it is the end of man's life. But Happiness
is not without pleasure: for it is written (Ps. 15:11): "Thou shalt fill me with joy with Thy
countenance; at Thy right hand are delights even to the end."

I answer that, Plato held neither with the Stoics, who asserted that all pleasures are evil,
nor with the Epicureans, who maintained that all pleasures are good; but he said that some
are good, and some evil; yet, so that no pleasure be the sovereign or greatest good. But, judging
from his arguments, he fails in two points. First, because, from observing that sensible and
bodily pleasure consists in a certain movement and "becoming," as is evident in satiety from
eating and the like; he concluded that all pleasure arises from some "becoming" and movement:
and from this, since "becoming" and movement are the acts of something imperfect, it would
follow that pleasure is not of the nature of ultimate perfection. But this is seen to be evidently
false as regards intellectual pleasures: because one takes pleasure, not only in the "becoming"
of knowledge, for instance, when one learns or wonders, as stated above (Q. 32, A. 8, ad 2);
but also in the act of contemplation, by making use of knowledge already acquired.

Secondly, because by greatest good he understood that which is the supreme good simply, i.e.
the good as existing apart from, and unparticipated by, all else, in which sense God is the
Supreme Good; whereas we are speaking of the greatest good in human things. Now the greatest
good of everything is its last end. And the end, as stated above (Q. 1, A. 8; Q. 2, A. 7) is
twofold; namely, the thing itself, and the use of that thing; thus the miser's end is either
money or the possession of money. Accordingly, man's last end may be said to be either God
Who is the Supreme Good simply; or the enjoyment of God, which implies a certain pleasure in
the last end. And in this sense a certain pleasure of man may be said to be the greatest among
human goods.

Reply Obj. 1: Not every pleasure arises from a "becoming"; for some pleasures result from perfect
operations, as stated above. Accordingly nothing prevents some pleasure being the greatest
good, although every pleasure is not such.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument is true of the greatest good simply, by participation of which
all things are good; wherefore no addition can make it better: whereas in regard to other goods,
it is universally true that any good becomes better by the addition of another good. Moreover
it might be said that pleasure is not something extraneous to the operation of virtue, but
that it accompanies it, as stated in Ethic. i, 8.

Reply Obj. 3: That pleasure is the greatest good is due not to the mere fact that it is pleasure,
but to the fact that it is perfect repose in the perfect good. Hence it does not follow that
every pleasure is supremely good, or even good at all. Thus a certain science is supremely
good, but not every science is.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 34, Art.

Objection 1: It would seem that pleasure is not the measure or rule of moral good and evil.
Because "that which is first in a genus is the measure of all the rest" (Metaph. x, 1). But
pleasure is not the first thing in the moral genus, for it is preceded by love and desire.
Therefore it is not the rule of goodness and malice in moral matters.

Obj. 2: Further, a measure or rule should be uniform; hence that movement which is the most
uniform, is the measure and rule of all movements (Metaph. x, 1). But pleasures are various
and multiform: since some of them are good, and some evil. Therefore pleasure is not the measure
and rule of morals.

Obj. 3: Further, judgment of the effect from its cause is more certain than judgment of cause
from effect. Now goodness or malice of operation is the cause of goodness or malice of pleasure:
because "those pleasures are good which result from good operations, and those are evil which
arise from evil operations," as stated in Ethic. x, 5. Therefore pleasures are not the rule
and measure of moral goodness and malice.

On the contrary, Augustine, commenting on Ps. 7:10 "The searcher of hearts and reins is God,"
says: "The end of care and thought is the pleasure which each one aims at achieving." And the
Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 11) that "pleasure is the architect," i.e. the principal, "end
[*St. Thomas took finis as being the nominative, whereas it is the genitive--tou telous; and
the Greek reads "He" (i.e. the political philosopher), "is the architect of the end."], in
regard to which, we say absolutely that this is evil, and that, good."

I answer that, Moral goodness or malice depends chiefly on the will, as stated above (Q. 20,
A. 1); and it is chiefly from the end that we discern whether the will is good or evil. Now
the end is taken to be that in which the will reposes: and the repose of the will and of every
appetite in the good is pleasure. And therefore man is reckoned to be good or bad chiefly according
to the pleasure of the human will; since that man is good and virtuous, who takes pleasure
in the works of virtue; and that man evil, who takes pleasure in evil works.

On the other hand, pleasures of the sensitive appetite are not the rule of moral goodness and
malice; since food is universally pleasurable to the sensitive appetite both of good and of
evil men. But the will of the good man takes pleasure in them in accordance with reason, to
which the will of the evil man gives no heed.

Reply Obj. 1: Love and desire precede pleasure in the order of generation. But pleasure precedes
them in the order of the end, which serves a principle in actions; and it is by the principle,
which is the rule and measure of such matters, that we form our judgment.

Reply Obj. 2: All pleasures are uniform in the point of their being the repose of the appetite
in something good: and in this respect pleasure can be a rule or measure. Because that man
is good, whose will rests in the true good: and that man evil, whose will rests in evil.

Reply Obj. 3: Since pleasure perfects operation as its end, as stated above (Q. 33, A. 4);
an operation cannot be perfectly good, unless there be also pleasure in good: because the goodness
of a thing depends on its end. And thus, in a way, the goodness of the pleasure is the cause
of goodness in the operation.

QUESTION 35

OF PAIN OR SORROW, IN ITSELF (In Eight Articles)

We have now to consider pain and sorrow: concerning which we must consider: (1) Sorrow or pain
in itself; (2) Its cause; (3) Its effects; (4) Its remedies; (5) Its goodness or malice.

Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether pain is a passion of the soul?

(2) Whether sorrow is the same as pain?

(3) Whether sorrow or pain is contrary [to] pleasure?

(4) Whether all sorrow is contrary to all pleasure?

(5) Whether there is a sorrow contrary to the pleasure of contemplation?

(6) Whether sorrow is to be shunned more than pleasure is to be sought?

(7) Whether exterior pain is greater than interior?

(8) Of the species of sorrow.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 1]

Whether Pain Is a Passion of the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that pain is not a passion of the soul. Because no passion of the
soul is in the body. But pain can be in the body, since Augustine says (De Vera Relig. xii),
that "bodily pain is a sudden corruption of the well-being of that thing which the soul, by
making evil use of it, made subject to corruption." Therefore pain is not a passion of the soul.

Obj. 2: Further, every passion of the soul belongs to the appetitive faculty. But pain does
not belong to the appetitive, but rather to the apprehensive part: for Augustine says (De Nat.
Boni xx) that "bodily pain is caused by the sense resisting a more powerful body." Therefore
pain is not a passion of the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, every passion of the soul belongs to the animal appetite. But pain does not
belong to the animal appetite, but rather to the natural appetite; for Augustine says (Gen.
ad lit. viii, 14): "Had not some good remained in nature, we should feel no pain in being punished
by the loss of good." Therefore pain is not a passion of the soul.

On the contrary, Augustine (De Civ. Dei xiv, 8) reckons pain among the passions of the soul;
quoting Virgil (Aeneid, vi, 733):

"hence wild desires and grovelling fears And human laughter, human tears." [Translation: Conington.]

I answer that, Just as two things are requisite for pleasure; namely, conjunction with good
and perception of this conjunction; so also two things are requisite for pain: namely, conjunction
with some evil (which is in so far evil as it deprives one of some good), and perception of
this conjunction. Now whatever is conjoined, if it have not the aspect of good or evil in regard
to the being to which it is conjoined, cannot cause pleasure or pain. Whence it is evident
that something under the aspect of good or evil is the object of the pleasure or pain. But
good and evil, as such, are objects of the appetite. Consequently it is clear that pleasure
and pain belong to the appetite.

Now every appetitive movement or inclination consequent to apprehension, belongs to the intellective
or sensitive appetite: since the inclination of the natural appetite is not consequent to an
apprehension of the subject of that appetite, but to the apprehension of another, as stated
in the First Part (Q. 103, AA. 1, 3). Since then pleasure and pain presuppose some sense or
apprehension in the same subject, it is evident that pain, like pleasure, is in the intellective
or sensitive appetite.

Again every movement of the sensitive appetite is called a passion, as stated above (Q. 22,
AA. 1, 3): and especially those which tend to some defect. Consequently pain, according as
it is in the sensitive appetite, is most properly called a passion of the soul: just as bodily
ailments are properly called passions of the body. Hence Augustine (De Civ. Dei xiv, 7, 8 [*Quoting
Cicero]) reckons pain especially as being a kind of ailment.

Reply Obj. 1: We speak of the body, because the cause of pain is in the body: as when we suffer
something hurtful to the body. But the movement of pain is always in the soul; since "the body
cannot feel pain unless the soul feel it," as Augustine says (Super Psalm. 87:4).

Reply Obj. 2: We speak of pain of the senses, not as though it were an act of the sensitive
power; but because the senses are required for bodily pain, in the same way as for bodily pleasure.

Reply Obj. 3: Pain at the loss of good proves the goodness of the nature, not because pain
is an act of the natural appetite, but because nature desires something as good, the removal
of which being perceived, there results the passion of pain in the sensitive appetite.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 2]

Whether Sorrow Is the Same As Pain?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is not pain. For Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 7)
that "pain is used to express bodily suffering." But sorrow is used more in reference to the
soul. Therefore sorrow is not pain.

Obj. 2: Further, pain is only in respect of present evil. But sorrow can refer to both past
and future evil: thus repentance is sorrow for the past, and anxiety for the future. Therefore
sorrow is quite different from pain.

Obj. 3: Further, pain seems not to follow save from the sense of touch. But sorrow can arise
from all the senses. Therefore sorrow is not pain, and extends to more objects.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 9:2): "I have great sorrow [Douay: 'sadness'] and continual
pain [Douay: 'sorrow'] in my heart," thus denoting the same thing by sorrow and pain.

I answer that, Pleasure and pain can arise from a twofold apprehension, namely, from the apprehension
of an exterior sense; and from the interior apprehension of the intellect or of the imagination.
Now the interior apprehension extends to more objects than the exterior apprehension: because
whatever things come under the exterior apprehension, come under the interior, but not conversely.
Consequently that pleasure alone which is caused by an interior apprehension is called joy,
as stated above (Q. 31, A. 3): and in like manner that pain alone which is caused by an interior
apprehension, is called sorrow. And just as that pleasure which is caused by an exterior apprehension,
is called pleasure but not joy; so too that pain which is caused by an exterior apprehension,
is called pain indeed but not sorrow. Accordingly sorrow is a species of pain, as joy is a
species of pleasure.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine is speaking there of the use of the word: because "pain" is more generally
used in reference to bodily pains, which are better known, than in reference to spiritual pains.

Reply Obj. 2: External sense perceives only what is present; but the interior cognitive power
can perceive the present, past and future. Consequently sorrow can regard present, past and
future: whereas bodily pain, which follows apprehension of the external sense, can only regard
something present.

Reply Obj. 3: The sensibles of touch are painful, not only in so far as they are disproportionate
to the apprehensive power, but also in so far as they are contrary to nature: whereas the objects
of the other senses can indeed be disproportionate to the apprehensive power, but they are
not contrary to nature, save as they are subordinate to the sensibles of touch. Consequently
man alone, who is a perfectly cognizant animal, takes pleasure in the objects of the other
senses for their own sake; whereas other animals take no pleasure in them save as referable
to the sensibles of touch, as stated in Ethic. iii, 10. Accordingly, in referring to the objects
of the other senses, we do not speak of pain in so far as it is contrary to natural pleasure:
but rather of sorrow, which is contrary to joy. So then if pain be taken as denoting bodily
pain, which is its more usual meaning, then it is contrasted with sorrow, according to the
distinction of interior and exterior apprehension; although, on the part of the objects, pleasure
extends further than does bodily pain. But if pain be taken in a wide sense, then it is the
genus of sorrow, as stated above.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 3]

Whether Sorrow or Pain Is Contrary to Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is not contrary to pleasure. For one of two contraries
is not the cause of the other. But sorrow can be the cause of pleasure; for it is written (Matt.
5:5): "Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." Therefore they are not contrary
to one another.

Obj. 2: Further, one contrary does not denominate the other. But to some, pain or sorrow gives
pleasure: thus Augustine says (Confess. iii, 2) that in stage-plays sorrow itself gives pleasure:
and (Confess. iv, 5) that "weeping is a bitter thing, and yet it sometimes pleases us." Therefore
pain is not contrary to pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, one contrary is not the matter of the other; because contraries cannot co-exist
together. But sorrow can be the matter of pleasure; for Augustine says (De Poenit. xiii): "The
penitent should ever sorrow, and rejoice in his sorrow." The Philosopher too says (Ethic. ix,
4) that, on the other hand, "the evil man feels pain at having been pleased." Therefore pleasure
and pain are not contrary to one another.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 6) that "joy is the volition of consent to
the things we wish: and that sorrow is the volition of dissent from the things we do not wish."
But consent and dissent are contraries. Therefore pleasure and sorrow are contrary to one another.

I answer that, As the Philosopher says (Metaph. x, 4), contrariety is a difference in respect
of a form. Now the form or species of a passion or movement is taken from the object or term.
Consequently, since the objects of pleasure and sorrow or pain, viz. present good and present
evil, are contrary to one another, it follows that pain and pleasure are contrary to one another.

Reply Obj. 1: Nothing hinders one contrary causing the other accidentally: and thus sorrow
can be the cause of pleasure. In one way, in so far as from sorrow at the absence of something,
or at the presence of its contrary, one seeks the more eagerly for something pleasant: thus
a thirsty man seeks more eagerly the pleasure of a drink, as a remedy for the pain he suffers.
In another way, in so far as, from a strong desire for a certain pleasure, one does not shrink
from undergoing pain, so as to obtain that pleasure. In each of these ways, the sorrows of
the present life lead us to the comfort of the future life. Because by the mere fact that man
mourns for his sins, or for the delay of glory, he merits the consolation of eternity. In like
manner a man merits it when he shrinks not from hardships and straits in order to obtain it.

Reply Obj. 2: Pain itself can be pleasurable accidentally in so far as it is accompanied by
wonder, as in stage-plays; or in so far as it recalls a beloved object to one's memory, and
makes one feel one's love for the thing, whose absence gives us pain. Consequently, since love
is pleasant, both pain and whatever else results from love, forasmuch as they remind us of
our love, are pleasant. And, for this reason, we derive pleasure even from pains depicted on
the stage: in so far as, in witnessing them, we perceive ourselves to conceive a certain love
for those who are there represented.

Reply Obj. 3: The will and the reason reflect on their own acts, inasmuch as the acts themselves
of the will and reason are considered under the aspect of good or evil. In this way sorrow
can be the matter of pleasure, or vice versa, not essentially but accidentally: that is, in
so far as either of them is considered under the aspect of good or evil.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 4]

Whether All Sorrow Is Contrary to All Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that all sorrow is contrary to all pleasure. Because, just as whiteness
and blackness are contrary species of color, so pleasure and sorrow are contrary species of
the soul's passions. But whiteness and blackness are universally contrary to one another. Therefore
pleasure and sorrow are so too.

Obj. 2: Further, remedies are made of things contrary (to the evil). But every pleasure is
a remedy for all manner of sorrow, as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. vii, 14). Therefore
every pleasure is contrary to every sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, contraries are hindrances to one another. But every sorrow hinders any kind
of pleasure: as is evident from Ethic. x, 5. Therefore every sorrow is contrary to every pleasure.

On the contrary, The same thing is not the cause of contraries. But joy for one thing, and
sorrow for the opposite thing, proceed from the same habit: thus from charity it happens that
we "rejoice with them that rejoice," and "weep with them that weep" (Rom. 12:15). Therefore
not every sorrow is contrary to every pleasure. Consequently things may be contraries in respect
of a generic form, as virtue and vice; or in respect of a specific form, as justice and injustice.

Now we must observe that some things are specified by absolute forms, e.g. substances and qualities;
whereas other things are specified in relation to something extrinsic, e.g. passions and movements,
which derive their species from their terms or objects. Accordingly in those things that are
specified by absolute forms, it happens that species contained under contrary genera are not
contrary as to their specific nature: but it does not happen for them to have any affinity
or fittingness to one another. For intemperance and justice, which are in the contrary genera
of virtue and vice, are not contrary to one another in respect of their specific nature; and
yet they have no affinity or fittingness to one another. On the other hand, in those things
that are specified in relation to something extrinsic, it happens that species belonging to
contrary genera, are not only not contrary to one another, but also that they have a certain
mutual affinity or fittingness. The reason of this is that where there is one same relation
to two contraries, there is contrariety; e.g. to approach to a white thing, and to approach
to a black thing, are contraries; whereas contrary relations to contrary things, implies a
certain likeness, e.g. to recede from something white, and to approach to something black.
This is most evident in the case of contradiction, which is the principle of opposition: because
opposition consists in affirming and denying the same thing, e.g. "white" and "non-white";
while there is fittingness and likeness in the affirmation of one contrary and the denial of
the other, as, if I were to say "black" and "not white."

Now sorrow and pleasure, being passions, are specified by their objects. According to their
respective genera, they are contrary to one another: since one is a kind of pursuit, the other
a kind of avoidance, which "are to the appetite, what affirmation and denial are to the intellect"
(Ethic. vi, 2). Consequently sorrow and pleasure in respect of the same object, are specifically
contrary to one another: whereas sorrow and pleasure in respect of objects that are not contrary
but disparate, are not specifically contrary to one another, but are also disparate; for instance,
sorrow at the death of a friend, and pleasure in contemplation. If, however, those diverse
objects be contrary to one another, then pleasure and sorrow are not only specifically contrary,
but they also have a certain mutual fittingness and affinity: for instance to rejoice in good
and to sorrow for evil.

Reply Obj. 1: Whiteness and blackness do not take their species from their relationship to
something extrinsic, as pleasure and sorrow do: wherefore the comparison does not hold.

Reply Obj. 2: Genus is taken from matter, as is stated in Metaph. viii, 2; and in accidents
the subject takes the place of matter. Now it has been said above that pleasure and sorrow
are generically contrary to one another. Consequently in every sorrow the subject has a disposition
contrary to the disposition of the subject of pleasure: because in every pleasure the appetite
is viewed as accepting what it possesses, and in every sorrow, as avoiding it. And therefore
on the part of the subject every pleasure is a remedy for any kind of sorrow, and every sorrow
is a hindrance of all manner of pleasure: but chiefly when pleasure is opposed to sorrow specifically.

Wherefore the Reply to the Third Objection is evident. Or we may say that, although not every
sorrow is specifically contrary to every pleasure, yet they are contrary to one another in
regard to their effects: since one has the effect of strengthening the animal nature, while
the other results in a kind of discomfort.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 5]

Whether There Is Any Sorrow Contrary to the Pleasure of Contemplation?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is a sorrow that is contrary to the pleasure of contemplation.
For the Apostle says (2 Cor. 7:10): "The sorrow that is according to God, worketh penance steadfast
unto salvation." Now to look at God belongs to the higher reason, whose act is to give itself
to contemplation, according to Augustine (De Trin. xii, 3, 4). Therefore there is a sorrow
contrary to the pleasure of contemplation.

Obj. 2: Further, contrary things have contrary effects. If therefore the contemplation of one
contrary gives pleasure, the other contrary will give sorrow: and so there will be a sorrow
contrary to the pleasure of contemplation.

Obj. 3: Further, as the object of pleasure is good, so the object of sorrow is evil. But contemplation
can be an evil: since the Philosopher says (Metaph. xii, 9) that "it is unfitting to think
of certain things." Therefore sorrow can be contrary to the pleasure of contemplation.

Obj. 4: Further, any work, so far as it is unhindered, can be a cause of pleasure, as stated
in Ethic. vii, 12, 13; x, 4. But the work of contemplation can be hindered in many ways, either
so as to destroy it altogether, or as to make it difficult. Therefore in contemplation there
can be a sorrow contrary to the pleasure.

Obj. 5: Further, affliction of the flesh is a cause of sorrow. But, as it is written (Eccles.
12:12) "much study is an affliction of the flesh." Therefore contemplation admits of sorrow
contrary to its pleasure.

On the contrary, It is written (Wis. 8:16): "Her," i.e. wisdom's, "conversation hath no bitterness
nor her company any tediousness; but joy and gladness." Now the conversation and company of
wisdom are found in contemplation. Therefore there is no sorrow contrary to the pleasure of
contemplation.

I answer that, The pleasure of contemplation can be understood in two ways. In one way, so
that contemplation is the cause, but not the object of pleasure: and then pleasure is taken
not in contemplating but in the thing contemplated. Now it is possible to contemplate something
harmful and sorrowful, just as to contemplate something suitable and pleasant. Consequently
if the pleasure of contemplation be taken in this way, nothing hinders some sorrow being contrary
to the pleasure of contemplation.

In another way, the pleasure of contemplation is understood, so that contemplation is its object
and cause; as when one takes pleasure in the very act of contemplating. And thus, according
to Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xviii.], "no sorrow is contrary to that pleasure
which is about contemplation": and the Philosopher says the same (Topic. i, 13; Ethic. x, 3).
This, however, is to be understood as being the case properly speaking. The reason is because
sorrow is of itself contrary to pleasure in a contrary object: thus pleasure in heat is contrary
to sorrow caused by cold. But there is no contrary to the object of contemplation: because
contraries, as apprehended by the mind, are not contrary, but one is the means of knowing the
other. Wherefore, properly speaking, there cannot be a sorrow contrary to the pleasure of contemplation.
Nor has it any sorrow annexed to it, as bodily pleasures have, which are like remedies against
certain annoyances; thus a man takes pleasure in drinking through being troubled with thirst,
but when the thirst is quite driven out, the pleasure of drinking ceases also. Because the
pleasure of contemplation is not caused by one's being quit of an annoyance, but by the fact
that contemplation is pleasant in itself: for pleasure is not a "becoming" but a perfect operation,
as stated above (Q. 31, A. 1).

Accidentally, however, sorrow is mingled with the pleasure of contemplation; and this in two
ways: first, on the part of an organ, secondly, through some impediment in the apprehension.
On the part of an organ, sorrow or pain is mingled with apprehension, directly, as regards
the apprehensive powers of the sensitive part, which have a bodily organ; either from the sensible
object disagreeing with the normal condition of the organ, as the taste of something bitter,
and the smell of something foul; or from the sensible object, though agreeable, being so continuous
in its action on the sense, that it exceeds the normal condition of the organ, as stated above
(Q. 33, A. 2), the result being that an apprehension which at first was pleasant becomes tedious.
But these two things cannot occur directly in the contemplation of the mind; because the mind
has no corporeal organ: wherefore it was said in the authority quoted above that intellectual
contemplation has neither "bitterness," nor "tediousness." Since, however, the human mind,
in contemplation, makes use of the sensitive powers of apprehension, to whose acts weariness
is incidental; therefore some affliction or pain is indirectly mingled with contemplation.

Nevertheless, in neither of these ways, is the pain thus accidentally mingled with contemplation,
contrary to the pleasure thereof. Because pain caused by a hindrance to contemplation, is not
contrary to the pleasure of contemplation, but rather is in affinity and in harmony with it,
as is evident from what has been said above (A. 4): while pain or sorrow caused by bodily weariness,
does not belong to the same genus, wherefore it is altogether disparate. Accordingly it is
evident that no sorrow is contrary to pleasure taken in the very act of contemplation; nor
is any sorrow connected with it save accidentally.

Reply Obj. 1: The "sorrow which is according to God," is not caused by the very act of intellectual
contemplation, but by something which the mind contemplates: viz. by sin, which the mind considers
as contrary to the love of God.

Reply Obj. 2: Things which are contrary according to nature are not contrary according as they
exist in the mind: for things that are contrary in reality are not contrary in the order of
thought; indeed rather is one contrary the reason for knowing the other. Hence one and the
same science considers contraries.

Reply Obj. 3: Contemplation, in itself, is never evil, since it is nothing else than the consideration
of truth, which is the good of the intellect: it can, however, be evil accidentally, i.e. in
so far as the contemplation of a less noble object hinders the contemplation of a more noble
object; or on the part of the object contemplated, to which the appetite is inordinately attached.

Reply Obj. 4: Sorrow caused by a hindrance to contemplation, is not contrary to the pleasure
of contemplation, but is in harmony with it, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 5: Affliction of the flesh affects contemplation accidentally and indirectly, as
stated above.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 6]

Whether Sorrow Is to Be Shunned More Than Pleasure Is to Be Sought?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is to be shunned more than pleasure is to be sought.
For Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 63): "There is nobody that does not shun sorrow more than he
seeks pleasure." Now that which all agree in doing, seems to be natural. Therefore it is natural
and right for sorrow to be shunned more than pleasure is sought.

Obj. 2: Further, the action of a contrary conduces to rapidity and intensity of movement: for
"hot water freezes quicker and harder," as the Philosopher says (Meteor. i, 12). But the shunning
of sorrow is due to the contrariety of the cause of sorrow; whereas the desire for pleasure
does not arise from any contrariety, but rather from the suitableness of the pleasant object.
Therefore sorrow is shunned more eagerly than pleasure is sought.

Obj. 3: Further, the stronger the passion which a man resists according to reason, the more
worthy is he of praise, and the more virtuous: since "virtue is concerned with the difficult
and the good" (Ethic. ii, 3). But the brave man who resists the movement of shunning sorrow,
is more virtuous than the temperate man, who resists the movement of desire for pleasure: since
the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4) that "the brave and the just are chiefly praised." Therefore
the movement of shunning sorrow is more eager than the movement of seeking pleasure.

On the contrary, Good is stronger than evil, as Dionysius declares (Div. Nom. iv). But pleasure
is desirable for the sake of the good which is its object; whereas the shunning of sorrow is
on account of evil. Therefore the desire for pleasure is more eager than the shunning of sorrow.

I answer that, The desire for pleasure is of itself more eager than the shunning of sorrow.
The reason of this is that the cause of pleasure is a suitable good; while the cause of pain
or sorrow is an unsuitable evil. Now it happens that a certain good is suitable without any
repugnance at all: but it is not possible for any evil to be so unsuitable as not to be suitable
in some way. Wherefore pleasure can be entire and perfect: whereas sorrow is always partial.
Therefore desire for pleasure is naturally greater than the shunning of sorrow. Another reason
is because the good, which is the object of pleasure, is sought for its own sake: whereas the
evil, which is the object of sorrow, is to be shunned as being a privation of good: and that
which is by reason of itself is stronger than that which is by reason of something else. Moreover
we find a confirmation of this in natural movements. For every natural movement is more intense
in the end, when a thing approaches the term that is suitable to its nature, than at the beginning,
when it leaves the term that is unsuitable to its nature: as though nature were more eager
in tending to what is suitable to it, than in shunning what is unsuitable. Therefore the inclination
of the appetitive power is, of itself, more eager in tending to pleasure than in shunning sorrow.

But it happens accidentally that a man shuns sorrow more eagerly than he seeks pleasure: and
this for three reasons. First, on the part of the apprehension. Now from the lack of what we
love, sorrow results, which is caused either by the loss of some loved good, or by the presence
of some contrary evil. But pleasure suffers no lack of the good loved, for it rests in possession
of it. Since then love is the cause of pleasure and sorrow, the latter is the more shunned,
according as love is the more keenly felt on account of that which is contrary to it. Secondly,
on the part of the cause of sorrow or pain, which cause is repugnant to a good that is more
loved than the good in which we take pleasure. For we love the natural well-being of the body
more than the pleasure of eating: and consequently we would leave the pleasure of eating and
the like, from fear of the pain occasioned by blows or other such causes, which are contrary
to the well-being of the body. Thirdly, on the part of the effect: namely, in so far as sorrow
hinders not only one pleasure, but all.

Reply Obj. 1: The saying of Augustine that "sorrow is shunned more than pleasure is sought"
is true accidentally but not simply. And this is clear from what he says after: "Since we see
that the most savage animals are deterred from the greatest pleasures by fear of pain," which
pain is contrary to life which is loved above all.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not the same with movement from within and movement from without. For movement
from within tends to what is suitable more than it recedes from that which is unsuitable; as
we remarked above in regard to natural movement. But movement from without is intensified by
the very opposition: because each thing strives in its own way to resist anything contrary
to it, as aiming at its own preservation. Hence violent movement is intense at first, and slackens
towards the end. Now the movement of the appetitive faculty is from within: since it tends
from the soul to the object. Consequently pleasure is, of itself, more to be sought than sorrow
is to be shunned. But the movement of the sensitive faculty is from without, as it were from
the object of the soul. Consequently the more contrary a thing is the more it is felt. And
then too, accidentally, in so far as the senses are requisite for pleasure and pain, pain is
shunned more than pleasure is sought.

Reply Obj. 3: A brave man is not praised because, in accordance with reason, he is not overcome
by any kind of sorrow or pain whatever, but because he is not overcome by that which is concerned
with the dangers of death. And this kind of sorrow is more shunned, than pleasures of the table
or of sexual intercourse are sought, which latter pleasures are the object of temperance: thus
life is loved more than food and sexual pleasure. But the temperate man is praised for refraining
from pleasures of touch, more than for not shunning the pains which are contrary to them, as
is stated in Ethic. iii, 11.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 7]

Whether Outward Pain Is Greater Than Interior Sorrow?

Objection 1: It would seem that outward pain is greater than interior sorrow of the heart.
Because outward pain arises from a cause repugnant to the well-being of the body in which is
life: whereas interior sorrow is caused by some evil in the imagination. Since, therefore,
life is loved more than an imagined good, it seems that, according to what has been said above
(A. 6), outward pain is greater than interior sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, the reality moves more than its likeness does. But outward pain arises from
the real conjunction of some contrary; whereas inward sorrow arises from the apprehended likeness
of a contrary. Therefore outward pain is greater than inward sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, a cause is known by its effect. But outward pain has more striking effects:
since man dies sooner of outward pain than of interior sorrow. Therefore outward pain is greater
and is shunned more than interior sorrow.

On the contrary, it is written (Ecclus. 25:17): "The sadness of the heart is every wound [Douay:
'plague'], and the wickedness of a woman is all evil." Therefore, just as the wickedness of
a woman surpasses all other wickedness, as the text implies; so sadness of the heart surpasses
every outward wound.

I answer that, Interior and exterior pain agree in one point and differ in two. They agree
in this, that each is a movement of the appetitive power, as stated above (A. 1). But they
differ in respect of those two things which are requisite for pain and pleasure; namely, in
respect of the cause, which is a conjoined good or evil; and in respect of the apprehension.
For the cause of outward pain is a conjoined evil repugnant to the body; while the cause of
inward pain is a conjoined evil repugnant to the appetite. Again, outward pain arises from
an apprehension of sense, chiefly of touch; while inward pain arises from an interior apprehension,
of the imagination or of the reason.

If then we compare the cause of inward pain to the cause of outward pain, the former belongs,
of itself, to the appetite to which both these pains belong: while the latter belongs to the
appetite directly. Because inward pain arises from something being repugnant to the appetite
itself, while outward pain arises from something being repugnant to the appetite, through being
repugnant to the body. Now, that which is of itself is always prior to that which is by reason
of another. Wherefore, from this point of view, inward pain surpasses outward pain. In like
manner also on the part of apprehension: because the apprehension of reason and imagination
is of a higher order than the apprehension of the sense of touch. Consequently inward pain
is, simply and of itself, more keen than outward pain: a sign whereof is that one willingly
undergoes outward pain in order to avoid inward pain: and in so far as outward pain is not
repugnant to the interior appetite, it becomes in a manner pleasant and agreeable by way of
inward joy. Sometimes, however, outward pain is accompanied by inward pain, and then the pain
is increased. Because inward pain is not only greater than outward pain, it is also more universal:
since whatever is repugnant to the body, can be repugnant to the interior appetite; and whatever
is apprehended by sense may be apprehended by imagination and reason, but not conversely. Hence
in the passage quoted above it is said expressively: "Sadness of the heart is every wound,"
because even the pains of outward wounds are comprised in the interior sorrows of the heart.

Reply Obj. 1: Inward pain can also arise from things that are destructive of life. And then
the comparison of inward to outward pain must not be taken in reference to the various evils
that cause pain; but in regard to the various ways in which this cause of pain is compared
to the appetite.

Reply Obj. 2: Inward pain is not caused by the apprehended likeness of a thing: for a man is
not inwardly pained by the apprehended likeness itself, but by the thing which the likeness
represents. And this thing is all the more perfectly apprehended by means of its likeness,
as this likeness is more immaterial and abstract. Consequently inward pain is, of itself, greater,
as being caused by a greater evil, forasmuch as evil is better known by an inward apprehension.

Reply Obj. 3: Bodily changes are more liable to be caused by outward pain, both from the fact
that outward pain is caused by a corruptive conjoined corporally, which is a necessary condition
of the sense of touch; and from the fact that the outward sense is more material than the inward
sense, just as the sensitive appetite is more material than the intellective. For this reason,
as stated above (Q. 22, A. 3; Q. 31, A. 5), the body undergoes a greater change from the movement
of the sensitive appetite: and, in like manner, from outward than from inward pain.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 35, Art. 8]

Whether There Are Only Four Species of Sorrow?

Objection 1: It would seem that Damascene's (De Fide Orth. ii, 14) division of sorrow into
four species is incorrect; viz. into "torpor, distress," which Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius,
De Nat. Hom. xix.] calls "anxiety,"--"pity," and "envy." For sorrow is contrary to pleasure.
But there are not several species of pleasure. Therefore it is incorrect to assign different
species of sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, Repentance is a species of sorrow; and so are indignation and jealousy, as
the Philosopher states (Rhet. ii, 9, 11). But these are not included in the above species.
Therefore this division is insufficient.

Obj. 3: Further, the members of a division should be things that are opposed to one another.
But these species are not opposed to one another. For according to Gregory [*Nemesius, De Nat.
Hom. xix.] "torpor is sorrow depriving of speech; anxiety is the sorrow that weighs down; envy
is sorrow for another's good; pity is sorrow for another's wrongs." But it is possible for
one to sorrow for another's wrongs, and for another's good, and at the same time to be weighed
down inwardly, and outwardly to be speechless. Therefore this division is incorrect.

On the contrary, stands the twofold authority of Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius] and of Damascene.

I answer that, It belongs to the notion of a species that it is something added to the genus.
But a thing can be added to a genus in two ways. First, as something belonging of itself to
the genus, and virtually contained therein: thus "rational" is added to "animal." Such an addition
makes true species of a genus: as the Philosopher says (Metaph. vii, 12; viii, 2, 3). But,
secondly, a thing may be added to a genus, that is, as it were, foreign to the notion conveyed
by that genus: thus "white" or something of the kind may be added to "animal." Such an addition
does not make true species of the genus, according to the usual sense in which we speak of
genera and species. But sometimes a thing is said to be a species of a certain genus, through
having something foreign to that genus indeed, but to which the notion of that genus is applicable:
thus a live coal or a flame is said to be a species of fire, because in each of them the nature
of fire is applied to a foreign matter. In like manner we speak of astronomy and perspective
as being species of mathematics, inasmuch as the principles of mathematics are applied to natural
matter.

In accordance with this manner of speaking, the species of sorrow are reckoned by an application
of the notion of sorrow to something foreign to it. This foreign matter may be taken on the
part of the cause or the object, or of the effect. For the proper object of sorrow is one's
own evil. Hence sorrow may be concerned for an object foreign to it either through one's being
sorry for an evil that is not one's own; and thus we have pity which is sorrow for another's
evil, considered, however, as one's own: or through one's being sorry for something that is
neither evil nor one's own, but another's good, considered, however, as one's own evil: and
thus we have envy. The proper effect of sorrow consists in a certain flight of the appetite.
Wherefore the foreign element in the effect of sorrow, may be taken so as to affect the first
part only, by excluding flight: and thus we have anxiety which weighs on the mind, so as to
make escape seem impossible: hence it is also called perplexity. If, however, the mind be weighed
down so much, that even the limbs become motionless, which belongs to torpor, then we have
the foreign element affecting both, since there is neither flight, nor is the effect in the
appetite. And the reason why torpor especially is said to deprive one of speech is because
of all the external movements the voice is the best expression of the inward thought and desire,
not only in men, but also in other animals, as is stated in Polit. i, 1.

Reply Obj. 1: Pleasure is caused by good, which has only one meaning: and so pleasure is not
divided into several species as sorrow is; for the latter is caused by evil, which "happens
in many ways," as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv).

Reply Obj. 2: Repentance is for one's own evil, which is the proper object of sorrow: wherefore
it does not belong to these species. Jealousy and indignation are included in envy, as we shall
explain later (II-II, Q. 36, A. 2).

Reply Obj. 3: This division is not according to opposite species; but according to the diversity
of foreign matter to which the notion of sorrow is applied, as stated above.

QUESTION 36

OF THE CAUSES OF SORROW OR PAIN (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the causes of sorrow: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether sorrow is caused by the loss of a good or rather by the presence of an evil?

(2) Whether desire is a cause of sorrow?

(3) Whether the craving for unity is a cause of sorrow?

(4) Whether an irresistible power is a cause of sorrow?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 36, Art. 1]

Whether Sorrow Is Caused by the Loss of Good or by the Presence of Evil?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is caused by the loss of a good rather than by the presence
of an evil. For Augustine says (De viii QQ. Dulcit. qu. 1) that sorrow is caused by the loss
of temporal goods. Therefore, in like manner, every sorrow is caused by the loss of some good.

Obj. 2: Further, it was said above (Q. 35, A. 4) that the sorrow which is contrary to a pleasure,
has the same object as that pleasure. But the object of pleasure is good, as stated above (Q.
23, A. 4; Q. 31, A. 1; Q. 35, A. 3). Therefore sorrow is caused chiefly by the loss of good.

Obj. But the object of love is good. Therefore pain or sorrow is felt for the loss of good
rather than for an evil that is present.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 12) that "the dreaded evil gives rise to
fear, the present evil is the cause of sorrow."

I answer that, If privations, as considered by the mind, were what they are in reality, this
question would seem to be of no importance. For, as stated in the First Part (Q. 14, A. 10;
Q. 48, A. 3), evil is the privation of good: and privation is in reality nothing else than
the lack of the contrary habit; so that, in this respect, to sorrow for the loss of good, would
be the same as to sorrow for the presence of evil. But sorrow is a movement of the appetite
in consequence of an apprehension: and even a privation, as apprehended, has the aspect of
a being, wherefore it is called "a being of reason." And in this way evil, being a privation,
is regarded as a "contrary." Accordingly, so far as the movement of the appetite is concerned,
it makes a difference which of the two it regards chiefly, the present evil or the good which
is lost.

Again, since the movement of the animal appetite holds the same place in the actions of the
soul, as natural movement in natural things; the truth of the matter is to be found by considering
natural movements. For if, in natural movements, we observe those of approach and withdrawal,
approach is of itself directed to something suitable to nature; while withdrawal is of itself
directed to something contrary to nature; thus a heavy body, of itself, withdraws from a higher
place, and approaches naturally to a lower place. But if we consider the cause of both these
movements, viz. gravity, then gravity itself inclines towards the lower place more than it
withdraws from the higher place, since withdrawal from the latter is the reason for its downward
tendency.

Accordingly, since, in the movements of the appetite, sorrow is a kind of flight or withdrawal,
while pleasure is a kind of pursuit or approach; just as pleasure regards first the good possessed,
as its proper object, so sorrow regards the evil that is present. On the other hand love, which
is the cause of pleasure and sorrow, regards good rather than evil: and therefore, forasmuch
as the object is the cause of a passion, the present evil is more properly the cause of sorrow
or pain, than the good which is lost.

Reply Obj. 1: The loss itself of good is apprehended as an evil, just as the loss of evil is
apprehended as a good: and in this sense Augustine says that pain results from the loss of
temporal goods.

Reply Obj. 2: Pleasure and its contrary pain have the same object, but under contrary aspects:
because if the presence of a particular thing be the object of pleasure, the absence of that
same thing is the object of sorrow. Now one contrary includes the privation of the other, as
stated in Metaph. x, 4: and consequently sorrow in respect of one contrary is, in a way, directed
to the same thing under a contrary aspect.

Reply Obj. 3: When many movements arise from one cause, it does not follow that they all regard
chiefly that which the cause regards chiefly, but only the first of them. And each of the others
regards chiefly that which is suitable to it according to its own nature.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 36, Art. 2]

Whether Desire Is a Cause of Sorrow?

Objection 1: It would seem that desire is not a cause of pain or sorrow. Because sorrow of
itself regards evil, as stated above (A. 1): whereas desire is a movement of the appetite towards
good. Now movement towards one contrary is not a cause of movement towards the other contrary.
Therefore desire is not a cause of pain.

Obj. 2: Further, pain, according to Damascene (De Fide Orth. ii, 12), is caused by something
present; whereas the object of desire is something future. Therefore desire is not a cause of pain.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is pleasant in itself is not a cause of pain. But desire is pleasant
in itself, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 11). Therefore desire is not a cause of pain or
sorrow.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Enchiridion xxiv): "When ignorance of things necessary to
be done, and desire of things hurtful, found their way in: error and pain stole an entrance
in their company." But ignorance is the cause of error. Therefore desire is a cause of sorrow.

I answer that, Sorrow is a movement of the animal appetite. Now, as stated above (A. 1), the
appetitive movement is likened to the natural appetite; a likeness, that may be assigned to
a twofold cause; one, on the part of the end, the other, on the part of the principle of movement.
Thus, on the part of the end, the cause of a heavy body's downward movement is the lower place;
while the principle of that movement is a natural inclination resulting from gravity.

Now the cause of the appetitive movement, on the part of the end, is the object of that movement.
And thus, it has been said above (A. 1) that the cause of pain or sorrow is a present evil.
On the other hand, the cause, by way of principle, of that movement, is the inward inclination
of the appetite; which inclination regards, first of all, the good, and in consequence, the
rejection of a contrary evil. Hence the first principle of this appetitive movement is love,
which is the first inclination of the appetite towards the possession of good: while the second
principle is hatred, which is the first inclination of the appetite towards the avoidance of
evil. But since concupiscence or desire is the first effect of love, which gives rise to the
greatest pleasure, as stated above (Q. 32, A. 6); hence it is that Augustine often speaks of
desire or concupiscence in the sense of love, as was also stated (Q. 30, A. 2, ad 2): and in
this sense he says that desire is the universal cause of sorrow. Sometimes, however, desire
taken in its proper sense, is the cause of sorrow. Because whatever hinders a movement from
reaching its end is contrary to that movement. Now that which is contrary to the movement of
the appetite, is a cause of sorrow. Consequently, desire becomes a cause of sorrow, in so far
as we sorrow for the delay of a desired good, or for its entire removal. But it cannot be a
universal cause of sorrow: since we sorrow more for the loss of present good, in which we have
already taken pleasure, than for the withdrawal of future good which we desire to have.

Reply Obj. 1: The inclination of the appetite to the possession of good causes the inclination
of the appetite to fly from evil, as stated above. And hence it is that the appetitive movements
that regard good, are reckoned as causing the appetitive movements that regard evil.

Reply Obj. 2: That which is desired, though really future, is, nevertheless, in a way, present,
inasmuch as it is hoped for. Or we may say that although the desired good itself is future,
yet the hindrance is reckoned as present, and so gives rise to sorrow.

Reply Obj. 3: Desire gives pleasure, so long as there is hope of obtaining that which is desired.
But, when hope is removed through the presence of an obstacle, desire causes sorrow.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 36, Art. 3]

Whether the Craving for Unity Is a Cause of Sorrow?

Objection 1: It would seem that the craving for unity is not a cause of sorrow. For the Philosopher
says (Ethic. x, 3) that "this opinion," which held repletion to be the cause of pleasure, and
division [*Aristotle wrote endeian, 'want'; St. Thomas, in the Latin version, read 'incisionem';
should he have read 'indigentiam'?], the cause of sorrow, "seems to have originated in pains
and pleasures connected with food." But not every pleasure or sorrow is of this kind. Therefore
the craving for unity is not the universal cause of sorrow; since repletion pertains to unity,
and division is the cause of multitude.

Obj. 2: Further, every separation is opposed to unity. If therefore sorrow were caused by a
craving for unity, no separation would be pleasant: and this is clearly untrue as regards the
separation of whatever is superfluous.

Obj. 3: Further, for the same reason we desire the conjunction of good and the removal of evil.
But as conjunction regards unity, since it is a kind of union; so separation is contrary to
unity. Therefore the craving for unity should not be reckoned, rather than the craving for
separation, as causing sorrow.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. iii, 23), that "from the pain that dumb animals
feel, it is quite evident how their souls desire unity, in ruling and quickening their bodies.
For what else is pain but a feeling of impatience of division or corruption?"

I answer that, Forasmuch as the desire or craving for good is reckoned as a cause of sorrow,
so must a craving for unity, and love, be accounted as causing sorrow. Because the good of
each thing consists in a certain unity, inasmuch as each thing has, united in itself, the elements
of which its perfection consists: wherefore the Platonists held that one is a principle, just
as good is. Hence everything naturally desires unity, just as it desires goodness: and therefore,
just as love or desire for good is a cause of sorrow, so also is the love or craving for unity.

Reply Obj. 1: Not every kind of union causes perfect goodness, but only that on which the perfect
being of a thing depends. Hence neither does the desire of any kind of unity cause pain or
sorrow, as some have maintained: whose opinion is refuted by the Philosopher from the fact
that repletion is not always pleasant; for instance, when a man has eaten to repletion, he
takes no further pleasure in eating; because repletion or union of this kind, is repugnant
rather than conducive to perfect being. Consequently sorrow is caused by the craving, not for
any kind of unity, but for that unity in which the perfection of nature consists.

Reply Obj. 2: Separation can be pleasant, either because it removes something contrary to a
thing's perfection, or because it has some union connected with it, such as union of the sense
to its object.

Reply Obj. 3: Separation from things hurtful and corruptive is desired, in so far as they destroy
the unity which is due. Wherefore the desire for such like separation is not the first cause
of sorrow, whereas the craving for unity is.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 36, Art. 4]

Whether an Irresistible Power Is a Cause of Sorrow?

Objection 1: It would seem that a greater power should not be reckoned a cause of sorrow. For
that which is in the power of the agent is not present but future. But sorrow is for present
evil. Therefore a greater power is not a cause of sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, hurt inflicted is the cause of sorrow. But hurt can be inflicted even by a
lesser power. Therefore a greater power should not be reckoned as a cause of sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, the interior inclinations of the soul are the causes of the movements of appetite.
But a greater power is something external. Therefore it should not be reckoned as a cause of
sorrow.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Nat. Boni xx): "Sorrow in the soul is caused by the will
resisting a stronger power: while pain in the body is caused by sense resisting a stronger body."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), a present evil, is cause of sorrow or pain, by way of
object. Therefore that which is the cause of the evil being present, should be reckoned as
causing pain or sorrow. Now it is evident that it is contrary to the inclination of the appetite
to be united with a present evil: and whatever is contrary to a thing's inclination does not
happen to it save by the action of something stronger. Wherefore Augustine reckons a greater
power as being the cause of sorrow.

But it must be noted that if the stronger power goes so far as to transform the contrary inclination
into its own inclination there will be no longer repugnance or violence: thus if a stronger
agent, by its action on a heavy body, deprives it of its downward tendency, its consequent
upward tendency is not violent but natural to it.

Accordingly if some greater power prevail so far as to take away from the will or the sensitive
appetite, their respective inclinations, pain or sorrow will not result therefrom; such is
the result only when the contrary inclination of the appetite remains. And hence Augustine
says (De Nat. Boni xx) that sorrow is caused by the will "resisting a stronger power": for
were it not to resist, but to yield by consenting, the result would be not sorrow but pleasure.

Reply Obj. 1: A greater power causes sorrow, as acting not potentially but actually, i.e. by
causing the actual presence of the corruptive evil.

Reply Obj. 2: Nothing hinders a power which is not simply greater, from being greater in some
respect: and accordingly it is able to inflict some harm. But if it be nowise stronger, it
can do no harm at all: wherefore it cannot bring about that which causes sorrow.

Reply Obj. 3: External agents can be the causes of appetitive movements, in so far as they
cause the presence of the object: and it is thus that a greater power is reckoned to be the
cause of sorrow.

QUESTION 37

OF THE EFFECTS OF PAIN OR SORROW (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the effects of pain or of sorrow: under which head there are four points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether pain deprives one of the power to learn?

(2) Whether the effect of sorrow or pain is to burden the soul?

(3) Whether sorrow or pain weakens all activity?

(4) Whether sorrow is more harmful to the body than all the other passions of the soul?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 37, Art. 1]

Whether Pain Deprives One of the Power to Learn?

Objection 1: It would seem that pain does not deprive one of the power to learn. For it is
written (Isa. 26:9): "When Thou shalt do Thy judgments on the earth, the inhabitants of the
world shall learn justice": and further on (verse 16): "In the tribulation of murmuring Thy
instruction was with them." But the judgments of God and tribulation cause sorrow in men's
hearts. Therefore pain or sorrow, far from destroying, increases the power of learning.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Isa. 28:9): "Whom shall He teach knowledge? And whom shall
He make to understand the hearing? Them that are weaned from the milk, that are drawn away
from the breasts," i.e. from pleasures. But pain and sorrow are most destructive of pleasure;
since sorrow hinders all pleasure, as stated in Ethic. vii, 14: and (Ecclus. 11:29) it is stated
that "the affliction of an hour maketh one forget great delights." Therefore pain, instead
of taking away, increases the faculty of learning.

Obj. 3: Further, inward sorrow surpasses outward pain, as stated above (Q. 35, A. 7). But man
can learn while sorrowful. Much more, therefore, can he learn while in bodily pain.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Soliloq. i, 12): "Although during those days I was tormented
with a violent tooth-ache, I was not able to turn over in my mind other things than those I
had already learnt; and as to learning anything, I was quite unequal to it, because it required
undivided attention."

I answer that, Since all the powers of the soul are rooted in the one essence of the soul,
it must needs happen, when the intention of the soul is strongly drawn towards the action of
one power, that it is withdrawn from the action of another power: because the soul, being one,
can only have one intention. The result is that if one thing draws upon itself the entire intention
of the soul, or a great portion thereof, anything else requiring considerable attention is
incompatible therewith.

Now it is evident that sensible pain above all draws the soul's attention to itself; because
it is natural for each thing to tend wholly to repel whatever is contrary to it, as may be
observed even in natural things. It is likewise evident that in order to learn anything new,
we require study and effort with a strong intention, as is clearly stated in Prov. 2:4, 5:
"If thou shalt seek wisdom as money, and shall dig for her as for a treasure, then shalt thou
understand learning" [Vulg: 'the fear of the Lord']. Consequently if the pain be acute, man
is prevented at the time from learning anything: indeed it can be so acute, that, as long as
it lasts, a man is unable to give his attention even to that which he knew already. However
a difference is to be observed according to the difference of love that a man has for learning
or for considering: because the greater his love, the more will he retain the intention of
his mind so as to prevent it from turning entirely to the pain.

Reply Obj. 1: Moderate sorrow, that does not cause the mind to wander, can conduce to the acquisition
of learning especially in regard to those things by which a man hopes to be freed from sorrow.
And thus, "in the tribulation of murmuring," men are more apt to be taught by God.

Reply Obj. 2: Both pleasure and pain, in so far as they draw upon themselves the soul's intention,
hinder the reason from the act of consideration, wherefore it is stated in Ethic. vii, 11 that
"in the moment of sexual pleasure, a man cannot understand anything." Nevertheless pain attracts
the soul's intention more than pleasure does: thus we observe in natural things that the action
of a natural body is more intense in regard to its contrary; for instance, hot water is more
accessible to the action of cold, and in consequence freezes harder. If therefore pain or sorrow
be moderate, it can conduce accidentally to the facility of learning, in so far as it takes
away an excess of pleasure. But, of itself, it is a hindrance; and if it be intense, it prevents
it altogether.

Reply Obj. 3: External pain arises from hurt done to the body, so that it involves bodily transmutation
more than inward sorrow does: and yet the latter is greater in regard to the formal element
of pain, which belongs to the soul. Consequently bodily pain is a greater hindrance to contemplation
which requires complete repose, than inward sorrow is. Nevertheless if inward sorrow be very
intense, it attracts the intention, so that man is unable to learn anything for the first time:
wherefore on account of sorrow Gregory interrupted his commentary on Ezechiel (Hom. xxii in
Ezechiel).

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 37, Art. 2]

Whether the Effect of Sorrow or Pain Is to Burden the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is not an effect of sorrow to burden the soul. For the Apostle
says (2 Cor. 7:11): "Behold this self-same thing, that you were made sorrowful according to
God, how great carefulness it worketh in you: yea, defence, yea indignation," etc. Now carefulness
and indignation imply that the soul is uplifted, which is contrary to being depressed. Therefore
depression is not an effect of sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, sorrow is contrary to pleasure. But the effect of pleasure is expansion: the
opposite of which is not depression but contraction. Therefore depression should not be reckoned
as an effect of sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, sorrow consumes those who are inflicted therewith, as may be gathered from
the words of the Apostle (2 Cor. 2:7): "Lest perhaps such an one be swallowed up with overmuch
sorrow." But that which is depressed is not consumed; nay, it is weighed down by something
heavy, whereas that which is consumed enters within the consumer. Therefore depression should
not be reckoned an effect of sorrow.

On the contrary, Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xix.] and Damascene (De Fide Orth.
ii, 14) speak of "depressing sorrow."

I answer that, The effects of the soul's passions are sometimes named metaphorically, from
a likeness to sensible bodies: for the reason that the movements of the animal appetite are
like the inclinations of the natural appetite. And in this way fervor is ascribed to love,
expansion to pleasure, and depression to sorrow. For a man is said to be depressed, through
being hindered in his own movement by some weight. Now it is evident from what has been said
above (Q. 23, A. 4; Q. 25, A. 4; Q. 36, A. 1) that sorrow is caused by a present evil: and
this evil, from the very fact that it is repugnant to the movement of the will, depresses the
soul, inasmuch as it hinders it from enjoying that which it wishes to enjoy. And if the evil
which is the cause of sorrow be not so strong as to deprive one of the hope of avoiding it,
although the soul be depressed in so far as, for the present, it fails to grasp that which
it craves for; yet it retains the movement whereby to repulse that evil. If, on the other hand,
the strength of the evil be such as to exclude the hope of evasion, then even the interior
movement of the afflicted soul is absolutely hindered, so that it cannot turn aside either
this way or that. Sometimes even the external movement of the body is paralyzed, so that a
man becomes completely stupefied.

Reply Obj. 1: That uplifting of the soul ensues from the sorrow which is according to God,
because it brings with it the hope of the forgiveness of sin.

Reply Obj. 2: As far as the movement of the appetite is concerned, contraction and depression
amount to the same: because the soul, through being depressed so as to be unable to attend
freely to outward things, withdraws to itself, closing itself up as it were.

Reply Obj. 3: Sorrow is said to consume man, when the force of the afflicting evil is such
as to shut out all hope of evasion: and thus also it both depresses and consumes at the same
time. For certain things, taken metaphorically, imply one another, which taken literally, appear
to exclude one another.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 37, Art. 3]

Whether Sorrow or Pain Weakens All Activity?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow does not weaken all activity. Because carefulness is
caused by sorrow, as is clear from the passage of the Apostle quoted above (A. 2, Obj. 1).
Therefore sorrow is not a hindrance to work, but helps one to work well.

Obj. 2: Further, sorrow causes desire in many cases, as stated in Ethic. vii, 14. But desire
causes intensity of action. Therefore sorrow does too.

Obj. 3: Further, as some actions are proper to the joyful, so are others proper to the sorrowful;
for instance, to mourn. Now a thing is improved by that which is suitable to it. Therefore
certain actions are not hindered but improved by reason of sorrow.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 4) that "pleasure perfects action," whereas
on the other hand, "sorrow hinders it" (Ethic. x, 5).

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), sorrow at times does not depress or consume the soul,
so as to shut out all movement, internal or external; but certain movements are sometimes caused
by sorrow itself. Accordingly action stands in a twofold relation to sorrow. First, as being
the object of sorrow: and thus sorrow hinders any action: for we never do that which we do
with sorrow, so well as that which we do with pleasure, or without sorrow. The reason for this
is that the will is the cause of human actions: and consequently when we do something that
gives pain, the action must of necessity be weakened in consequence. Secondly, action stands
in relation to sorrow, as to its principle and cause: and such action must needs be improved
by sorrow: thus the more one sorrows on account of a certain thing, the more one strives to
shake off sorrow, provided there is a hope of shaking it off: otherwise no movement or action
would result from that sorrow.

From what has been said the replies to the objections are evident.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 37, Art. 4]

Whether Sorrow Is More Harmful to the Body Than the Other Passions of the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is not most harmful to the body. For sorrow has a spiritual
existence in the soul. But those things which have only a spiritual existence do not cause
a transmutation in the body: as is evident with regard to the images of colors, which images
are in the air and do not give color to bodies. Therefore sorrow is not harmful to the body.

Obj. 2: Further if it be harmful to the body, this can only be due to its having a bodily transmutation
in conjunction with it. But bodily transmutation takes place in all the passions of the soul,
as stated above (Q. 22, AA. 1, 3). Therefore sorrow is not more harmful to the body than the
other passions of the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 3) that "anger and desire drive some to
madness": which seems to be a very great harm, since reason is the most excellent thing in
man. Moreover, despair seems to be more harmful than sorrow; for it is the cause of sorrow.
Therefore sorrow is not more harmful to the body than the other passions of the soul.

On the contrary, It is written (Prov. 17:22): "A joyful mind maketh age flourishing: a sorrowful
spirit drieth up the bones": and (Prov. 25:20): "As a moth doth by a garment, and a worm by
the wood: so the sadness of a man consumeth the heart": and (Ecclus. 38:19): "Of sadness cometh
death."

I answer that, Of all the soul's passions, sorrow is most harmful to the body. The reason of
this is because sorrow is repugnant to man's life in respect of the species of its movement,
and not merely in respect of its measure or quantity, as is the case with the other passions
of the soul. For man's life consists in a certain movement, which flows from the heart to the
other parts of the body: and this movement is befitting to human nature according to a certain
fixed measure. Consequently if this movement goes beyond the right measure, it will be repugnant
to man's life in respect of the measure of quantity; but not in respect of its specific character:
whereas if this movement be hindered in its progress, it will be repugnant to life in respect
of its species.

Now it must be noted that, in all the passions of the soul, the bodily transmutation which
is their material element, is in conformity with and in proportion to the appetitive movement,
which is the formal element: just as in everything matter is proportionate to form. Consequently
those passions that imply a movement of the appetite in pursuit of something, are not repugnant
to the vital movement as regards its species, but they may be repugnant thereto as regards
its measure: such are love, joy, desire and the like; wherefore these passions conduce to the
well-being of the body; though, if they be excessive, they may be harmful to it. On the other
hand, those passions which denote in the appetite a movement of flight or contraction, are
repugnant to the vital movement, not only as regards its measure, but also as regards its species;
wherefore they are simply harmful: such are fear and despair, and above all sorrow which depresses
the soul by reason of a present evil, which makes a stronger impression than future evil.

Reply Obj. 1: Since the soul naturally moves the body, the spiritual movement of the soul is
naturally the cause of bodily transmutation. Nor is there any parallel with spiritual images,
because they are not naturally ordained to move such other bodies as are not naturally moved
by the soul.

Reply Obj. 2: Other passions imply a bodily transmutation which is specifically in conformity
with the vital movement: whereas sorrow implies a transmutation that is repugnant thereto,
as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: A lesser cause suffices to hinder the use of reason, than to destroy life: since
we observe that many ailments deprive one of the use of reason, before depriving one of life.
Nevertheless fear and anger cause very great harm to the body, by reason of the sorrow which
they imply, and which arises from the absence of the thing desired. Moreover sorrow too sometimes
deprives man of the use of reason: as may be seen in those who through sorrow become a prey
to melancholy or madness.

QUESTION 38

OF THE REMEDIES OF SORROW OR PAIN (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the remedies of pain or sorrow: under which head there are five points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether pain or sorrow is assuaged by every pleasure?

(2) Whether it is assuaged by weeping?

(3) Whether it is assuaged by the sympathy of friends?

(4) Whether it is assuaged by contemplating the truth?

(5) Whether it is assuaged by sleep and baths?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 38, Art. 1]

Whether Pain or Sorrow Is Assuaged by Every Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that not every pleasure assuages every pain or sorrow. For pleasure
does not assuage sorrow, save in so far as it is contrary to it: for "remedies work by contraries"
(Ethic. ii, 3). But not every pleasure is contrary to every sorrow; as stated above (Q. 35,
A. 4). Therefore not every pleasure assuages every sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, that which causes sorrow does not assuage it. But some pleasures cause sorrow;
since, as stated in Ethic. ix, 4, "the wicked man feels pain at having been pleased." Therefore
not every pleasure assuages sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (Confess. iv, 7) that he fled from his country, where he had
been wont to associate with his friend, now dead: "for so should his eyes look for him less,
where they were not wont to see him." Hence we may gather that those things which united us
to our dead or absent friends, become burdensome to us when we mourn their death or absence.
But nothing united us more than the pleasures we enjoyed in common. Therefore these very pleasures
become burdensome to us when we mourn. Therefore not every pleasure assuages every sorrow.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 14) that "sorrow is driven forth by pleasure,
both by a contrary pleasure and by any other, provided it be intense."

I answer that, As is evident from what has been said above (Q. 23, A. 4), pleasure is a kind
of repose of the appetite in a suitable good; while sorrow arises from something unsuited to
the appetite. Consequently in movements of the appetite pleasure is to sorrow, what, in bodies,
repose is to weariness, which is due to a non-natural transmutation; for sorrow itself implies
a certain weariness or ailing of the appetitive faculty. Therefore just as all repose of the
body brings relief to any kind of weariness, ensuing from any non-natural cause; so every pleasure
brings relief by assuaging any kind of sorrow, due to any cause whatever.

Reply Obj. 1: Although not every pleasure is specifically contrary to every sorrow, yet it
is generically, as stated above (Q. 35, A. 4). And consequently, on the part of the disposition
of the subject, any sorrow can be assuaged by any pleasure.

Reply Obj. 2: The pleasures of wicked men are not a cause of sorrow while they are enjoyed,
but afterwards: that is to say, in so far as wicked men repent of those things in which they
took pleasure. This sorrow is healed by contrary pleasures.

Reply Obj. 3: When there are two causes inclining to contrary movements, each hinders the other;
yet the one which is stronger and more persistent, prevails in the end. Now when a man is made
sorrowful by those things in which he took pleasure in common with a deceased or absent friend,
there are two causes producing contrary movements. For the thought of the friend's death or
absence, inclines him to sorrow: whereas the present good inclines him to pleasure. Consequently
each is modified by the other. And yet, since the perception of the present moves more strongly
than the memory of the past, and since love of self is more persistent than love of another;
hence it is that, in the end, the pleasure drives out the sorrow. Wherefore a little further
on (Confess. iv, 8) Augustine says that his "sorrow gave way to his former pleasures."

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 38, Art. 2]

Whether Pain or Sorrow Is Assuaged by Tears?

Objection 1: It would seem that tears do not assuage sorrow. Because no effect diminishes its
cause. But tears or groans are an effect of sorrow. Therefore they do not diminish sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, just as tears or groans are an effect of sorrow, so laughter is an effect
of joy. But laughter does not lessen joy. Therefore tears do not lessen sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, when we weep, the evil that saddens us is present to the imagination. But
the image of that which saddens us increases sorrow, just as the image of a pleasant thing
adds to joy. Therefore it seems that tears do not assuage sorrow.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Confess. iv, 7) that when he mourned the death of his friend,
"in groans and in tears alone did he find some little refreshment."

I answer that, Tears and groans naturally assuage sorrow: and this for two reasons. First,
because a hurtful thing hurts yet more if we keep it shut up, because the soul is more intent
on it: whereas if it be allowed to escape, the soul's intention is dispersed as it were on
outward things, so that the inward sorrow is lessened. This is why men, burdened with sorrow,
make outward show of their sorrow, by tears or groans or even by words, their sorrow is assuaged.
Secondly, because an action, that befits a man according to his actual disposition, is always
pleasant to him. Now tears and groans are actions befitting a man who is in sorrow or pain;
and consequently they become pleasant to him. Since then, as stated above (A. 1), every pleasure
assuages sorrow or pain somewhat, it follows that sorrow is assuaged by weeping and groans.

Reply Obj. 1: This relation of the cause to effect is opposed to the relation existing between
the cause of sorrow and the sorrowing man. For every effect is suited to its cause, and consequently
is pleasant to it; but the cause of sorrow is disagreeable to him that sorrows. Hence the effect
of sorrow is not related to him that sorrows in the same way as the cause of sorrow is. For
this reason sorrow is assuaged by its effect, on account of the aforesaid contrariety.

Reply Obj. 2: The relation of effect to cause is like the relation of the object of pleasure
to him that takes pleasure in it: because in each case the one agrees with the other. Now every
like thing increases its like. Therefore joy is increased by laughter and the other effects
of joy: except they be excessive, in which case, accidentally, they lessen it.

Reply Obj. 3: The image of that which saddens us, considered in itself, has a natural tendency
to increase sorrow: yet from the very fact that a man imagines himself to be doing that which
is fitting according to his actual state, he feels a certain amount of pleasure. For the same
reason if laughter escapes a man when he is so disposed that he thinks he ought to weep, he
is sorry for it, as having done something unbecoming to him, as Cicero says (De Tusc. Quaest.
iii, 27).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 38, Art. 3]

Whether Pain or Sorrow Are Assuaged by the Sympathy of Friends?

Objection 1: It would seem that the sorrow of sympathizing friends does not assuage our own
sorrow. For contraries have contrary effects. Now as Augustine says (Confess. viii, 4), "when
many rejoice together, each one has more exuberant joy, for they are kindled and inflamed one
by the other." Therefore, in like manner, when many are sorrowful, it seems that their sorrow
is greater.

Obj. 2: Further, friendship demands mutual love, as Augustine declares (Confess. iv, 9). But
a sympathizing friend is pained at the sorrow of his friend with whom he sympathizes. Consequently
the pain of a sympathizing friend becomes, to the friend in sorrow, a further cause of sorrow:
so that, his pain being doubled his sorrow seems to increase.

Obj. 3: Further, sorrow arises from every evil affecting a friend, as though it affected oneself:
since "a friend is one's other self" (Ethic. ix, 4, 9). But sorrow is an evil. Therefore the
sorrow of the sympathizing friend increases the sorrow of the friend with whom he sympathizes.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ix, 11) that those who are in pain are consoled
when their friends sympathize with them.

I answer that, When one is in pain, it is natural that the sympathy of a friend should afford
consolation: whereof the Philosopher indicates a twofold reason (Ethic. ix, 11). The first
is because, since sorrow has a depressing effect, it is like a weight whereof we strive to
unburden ourselves: so that when a man sees others saddened by his own sorrow, it seems as
though others were bearing the burden with him, striving, as it were, to lessen its weight;
wherefore the load of sorrow becomes lighter for him: something like what occurs in the carrying
of bodily burdens. The second and better reason is because when a man's friends condole with
him, he sees that he is loved by them, and this affords him pleasure, as stated above (Q. 32,
A. 5). Consequently, since every pleasure assuages sorrow, as stated above (A. 1), it follows
that sorrow is mitigated by a sympathizing friend.

Reply Obj. 1: In either case there is a proof of friendship, viz. when a man rejoices with
the joyful, and when he sorrows with the sorrowful. Consequently each becomes an object of
pleasure by reason of its cause.

Reply Obj. 2: The friend's sorrow itself would be a cause of sorrow: but consideration of its
cause, viz. his love, gives rise rather to pleasure.

And this suffices for the reply to the Third Objection.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 38, Art. 4]

Whether Pain and Sorrow Are Assuaged by the Contemplation of Truth?

Objection 1: It would seem that the contemplation of truth does not assuage sorrow. For it
is written (Eccles. 1:18): "He that addeth knowledge addeth also sorrow" [Vulg.: 'labor'].
But knowledge pertains to the contemplation of truth. Therefore the contemplation of truth
does not assuage sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, the contemplation of truth belongs to the speculative intellect. But "the
speculative intellect is not a principle of movement"; as stated in De Anima iii, 11. Therefore,
since joy and sorrow are movements of the soul, it seems that the contemplation of truth does
not help to assuage sorrow.

Obj. 3: Further, the remedy for an ailment should be applied to the part which ails. But contemplation
of truth is in the intellect. Therefore it does not assuage bodily pain, which is in the senses.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Soliloq. i, 12): "It seemed to me that if the light of that
truth were to dawn on our minds, either I should not feel that pain, or at least that pain
would seem nothing to me."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 3, A. 5), the greatest of all pleasures consists in the
contemplation of truth. Now every pleasure assuages pain as stated above (A. 1): hence the
contemplation of truth assuages pain or sorrow, and the more so, the more perfectly one is
a lover of wisdom. And therefore in the midst of tribulations men rejoice in the contemplation
of Divine things and of future Happiness, according to James 1:2: "My brethren, count it all
joy, when you shall fall into divers temptations": and, what is more, even in the midst of
bodily tortures this joy is found; as the "martyr Tiburtius, when he was walking barefoot on
the burning coals, said: Methinks, I walk on roses, in the name of Jesus Christ." [*Cf. Dominican
Breviary, August 11th, commemoration of St. Tiburtius.]

Reply Obj. 1: "He that addeth knowledge, addeth sorrow," either on account of the difficulty
and disappointment in the search for truth; or because knowledge makes man acquainted with
many things that are contrary to his will. Accordingly, on the part of the things known, knowledge
causes sorrow: but on the part of the contemplation of truth, it causes pleasure.

Reply Obj. 2: The speculative intellect does not move the mind on the part of the thing contemplated:
but on the part of contemplation itself, which is man's good and naturally pleasant to him.

Reply Obj. 3: In the powers of the soul there is an overflow from the higher to the lower powers:
and accordingly, the pleasure of contemplation, which is in the higher part, overflows so as
to mitigate even that pain which is in the senses.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 38, Art. 5]

Whether Pain and Sorrow Are Assuaged by Sleep and Baths?

Objection 1: It would seem that sleep and baths do not assuage sorrow. For sorrow is in the
soul: whereas sleep and baths regard the body. Therefore they do not conduce to the assuaging
of sorrow.

Obj. 2: Further, the same effect does not seem to ensue from contrary causes. But these, being
bodily things, are incompatible with the contemplation of truth which is a cause of the assuaging
of sorrow, as stated above (A. 4). Therefore sorrow is not mitigated by the like.

Obj. 3: Further, sorrow and pain, in so far as they affect the body, denote a certain transmutation
of the heart. But such remedies as these seem to pertain to the outward senses and limbs, rather
than to the interior disposition of the heart. Therefore they do not assuage sorrow.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Confess. ix, 12): "I had heard that the bath had its name
[*Balneum, from the Greek balaneion] . . . from the fact of its driving sadness from the mind."
And further on, he says: "I slept, and woke up again, and found my grief not a little assuaged":
and quotes the words from the hymn of Ambrose [*Cf. Sarum Breviary: First Sunday after the
octave of the Epiphany, Hymn for first Vespers], in which it is said that "Sleep restores the
tired limbs to labor, refreshes the weary mind, and banishes sorrow."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 37, A. 4), sorrow, by reason of its specific nature, is
repugnant to the vital movement of the body; and consequently whatever restores the bodily
nature to its due state of vital movement, is opposed to sorrow and assuages it. Moreover such
remedies, from the very fact that they bring nature back to its normal state, are causes of
pleasure; for this is precisely in what pleasure consists, as stated above (Q. 31, A. 1). Therefore,
since every pleasure assuages sorrow, sorrow is assuaged by such like bodily remedies.

Reply Obj. 1: The normal disposition of the body, so far as it is felt, is itself a cause of
pleasure, and consequently assuages sorrow.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 31, A. 8), one pleasure hinders another; and yet every pleasure
assuages sorrow. Consequently it is not unreasonable that sorrow should be assuaged by causes
which hinder one another.

Reply Obj. 3: Every good disposition of the body reacts somewhat on the heart, which is the
beginning and end of bodily movements, as stated in De Causa Mot. Animal. xi.

QUESTION 39

OF THE GOODNESS AND MALICE OF SORROW OR PAIN (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the goodness and malice of pain or sorrow: under which head there are
four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether all sorrow is evil?

(2) Whether sorrow can be a virtuous good?

(3) Whether it can be a useful good?

(4) Whether bodily pain is the greatest evil?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 39, Art. 1]

Whether All Sorrow Is Evil?

Objection 1: It would seem that all sorrow is evil. For Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat.
Hom. xix.] says: "All sorrow is evil, from its very nature." Now what is naturally evil, is
evil always and everywhere. Therefore, all sorrow is evil.

Obj. 2: Further, that which all, even the virtuous, avoid, is evil. But all avoid sorrow, even
the virtuous, since as stated in Ethic. vii, 11, "though the prudent man does not aim at pleasure,
yet he aims at avoiding sorrow." Therefore sorrow is evil.

Obj. 3: Further, just as bodily evil is the object and cause of bodily pain, so spiritual evil
is the object and cause of sorrow in the soul. But every bodily pain is a bodily evil. Therefore
every spiritual sorrow is an evil of the soul.

On the contrary, Sorrow for evil is contrary to pleasure in evil. But pleasure in evil is evil:
wherefore in condemnation of certain men, it is written (Prov. 2:14), that "they were glad
when they had done evil." Therefore sorrow for evil is good.

I answer that, A thing may be good or evil in two ways: first considered simply and in itself;
and thus all sorrow is an evil, because the mere fact of a man's appetite being uneasy about
a present evil, is itself an evil, because it hinders the response of the appetite in good.
Secondly, a thing is said to be good or evil, on the supposition of something else: thus shame
is said to be good, on the supposition of a shameful deed done, as stated in Ethic. iv, 9.
Accordingly, supposing the presence of something saddening or painful, it is a sign of goodness
if a man is in sorrow or pain on account of this present evil. For if he were not to be in
sorrow or pain, this could only be either because he feels it not, or because he does not reckon
it as something unbecoming, both of which are manifest evils. Consequently it is a condition
of goodness, that, supposing an evil to be present, sorrow or pain should ensue. Wherefore
Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. viii, 14): "It is also a good thing that he sorrows for the good
he has lost: for had not some good remained in his nature, he could not be punished by the
loss of good." Because, however, in the science of Morals, we consider things individually--for
actions are concerned about individuals--that which is good on some supposition, should be
considered as good: just as that which is voluntary on some supposition, is judged to be voluntary,
as stated in Ethic. iii, 1, and likewise above (Q. 6, A. 6).

Reply Obj. 1: Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius] is speaking of sorrow on the part of the evil that
causes it, but not on the part of the subject that feels and rejects the evil. And from this
point of view, all shun sorrow, inasmuch as they shun evil: but they do not shun the perception
and rejection of evil. The same also applies to bodily pain: because the perception and rejection
of bodily evil is the proof of the goodness of nature.

This suffices for the Replies to the Second and Third Objections.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 39, Art. 2]

Whether Sorrow Can Be a Virtuous Good?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is not a virtuous good. For that which leads to hell
is not a virtuous good. But, as Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 33), "Jacob seems to have
feared lest he should be troubled overmuch by sorrow, and so, instead of entering into the
rest of the blessed, be consigned to the hell of sinners." Therefore sorrow is not a virtuous good.

Obj. 2: Further, the virtuous good is praiseworthy and meritorious. Therefore sorrow is not
a virtuous good.

Obj. 3: Further, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 15), "sorrow is concerned about those
things which happen against our will." But not to will those things which are actually taking
place, is to have a will opposed to the decree of God, to Whose providence whatever is done
is subject. Since, then, conformity of the human to the Divine will is a condition of the rectitude
of the will, as stated above (Q. 19, A. 9), it seems that sorrow is incompatible with rectitude
of the will, and that consequently it is not virtuous.

On the contrary, Whatever merits the reward of eternal life is virtuous. But such is sorrow;
as is evident from Matt. 5:5: "Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." Therefore
sorrow is a virtuous good.

I answer that, In so far as sorrow is good, it can be a virtuous good. For it has been said
above (A. 1) that sorrow is a good inasmuch as it denotes perception and rejection of evil.
These two things, as regards bodily pain, are a proof of the goodness of nature, to which it
is due that the senses perceive, and that nature shuns, the harmful thing that causes pain.
As regards interior sorrow, perception of the evil is sometimes due to a right judgment of
reason; while the rejection of the evil is the act of the will, well disposed and detesting
that evil. Now every virtuous good results from these two things, the rectitude of the reason
and the will. Wherefore it is evident that sorrow may be a virtuous good.

Reply Obj. 1: All the passions of the soul should be regulated according to the rule of reason,
which is the root of the virtuous good; but excessive sorrow, of which Augustine is speaking,
oversteps this rule, and therefore it fails to be a virtuous good.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as sorrow for an evil arises from a right will and reason, which detest
the evil, so sorrow for a good is due to a perverse reason and will, which detest the good.
Consequently such sorrow is an obstacle to the praise and merit of the virtuous good; for instance,
when a man gives an alms sorrowfully.

Reply Obj. 3: Some things do actually happen, not because God wills, but because He permits
them to happen--such as sins. Consequently a will that is opposed to sin, whether in oneself
or in another, is not discordant from the Divine will. Penal evils happen actually, even by
God's will. But it is not necessary for the rectitude of his will, that man should will them
in themselves: but only that he should not revolt against the order of Divine justice, as stated
above (Q. 19, A. 10).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 39, Art. 3]

Whether Sorrow Can Be a Useful Good?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow cannot be a useful good. For it is written (Ecclus.
30:25): "Sadness hath killed many, and there is no profit in it."

Obj. 2: Further, choice is of that which is useful to an end. But sorrow is not an object of
choice; in fact, "a thing without sorrow is to be chosen rather than the same thing with sorrow"
(Topic. iii, 2). Therefore sorrow is not a useful good.

Obj. 3: Further, "Everything is for the sake of its own operation," as stated in De Coelo ii,
3. But "sorrow hinders operation," as stated in Ethic. x, 5. Therefore sorrow is not a useful good.

On the contrary, The wise man seeks only that which is useful. Therefore sorrow is useful.

I answer that, A twofold movement of the appetite ensues from a present evil. One is that whereby
the appetite is opposed to the present evil; and, in this respect, sorrow is of no use; because
that which is present, cannot be not present. The other movement arises in the appetite to
the effect of avoiding or expelling the saddening evil: and, in this respect, sorrow is of
use, if it be for something which ought to be avoided. Because there are two reasons for which
it may be right to avoid a thing. First, because it should be avoided in itself, on account
of its being contrary to good; for instance, sin. Secondly, a thing is to be avoided, not as
though it were evil in itself, but because it is an occasion of evil; either through one's
being attached to it, and loving it too much, or through one's being thrown headlong thereby
into an evil, as is evident in the case of temporal goods. And, in this respect, sorrow for
temporal goods may be useful; according to Eccles. 7:3: "It is better to go to the house of
mourning, than to the house of feasting: for in that we are put in mind of the end of all."

Moreover, sorrow for that which ought to be avoided is always useful, since it adds another
motive for avoiding it. Because the very evil is in itself a thing to be avoided: while everyone
avoids sorrow for its own sake, just as everyone seeks the good, and pleasure in the good.
Therefore just as pleasure in the good makes one seek the good more earnestly, so sorrow for
evil makes one avoid evil more eagerly.

Reply Obj. 1: This passage is to be taken as referring to excessive sorrow, which consumes
the soul: for such sorrow paralyzes the soul, and hinders it from shunning evil, as stated
above (Q. 37, A. 2).

Reply Obj. 2: Just as any object of choice becomes less eligible by reason of sorrow, so that
which ought to be shunned is still more to be shunned by reason of sorrow: and, in this respect,
sorrow is useful.

Reply Obj. 3: Sorrow caused by an action hinders that action: but sorrow for the cessation
of an action, makes one do it more earnestly.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 39, Art. 4]

Whether Bodily Pain Is the Greatest Evil?

Objection 1: It would seem that pain is the greatest evil. Because "the worst is contrary to
the best" (Ethic. viii, 10). But a certain pleasure is the greatest good, viz. the pleasure
of bliss. Therefore a certain pain is the greatest evil.

Obj. 2: Further, happiness is man's greatest good, because it is his last end. But man's Happiness
consists in his "having whatever he will, and in willing naught amiss," as stated above (Q.
3, A. 4, Obj. 5; Q. 5, A. 8, Obj. 3). Therefore man's greatest good consists in the fulfilment
of his will. Now pain consists in something happening contrary to the will, as Augustine declares
(De Civ. Dei xiv, 6, 15). Therefore pain is man's greatest evil.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine argues thus (Soliloq. i, 12): "We are composed of two parts, i.e.
of a soul and a body, whereof the body is the inferior. Now the sovereign good is the greatest
good of the better part: while the supreme evil is the greatest evil of the inferior part.
But wisdom is the greatest good of the soul; while the worst thing in the body is pain. Therefore
man's greatest good is to be wise: while his greatest evil is to suffer pain."

On the contrary, Guilt is a greater evil than punishment, as was stated in the First Part (Q.
48, A. 6). But sorrow or pain belongs to the punishment of sin, just as the enjoyment of changeable
things is an evil of guilt. For Augustine says (De Vera Relig. xii): "What is pain of the soul,
except for the soul to be deprived of that which it was wont to enjoy, or had hoped to enjoy?
And this is all that is called evil, i.e. sin, and the punishment of sin." Therefore sorrow
or pain is not man's greatest evil.

I answer that, It is impossible for any sorrow or pain to be man's greatest evil. For all sorrow
or pain is either for something that is truly evil, or for something that is apparently evil,
but good in reality. Now pain or sorrow for that which is truly evil cannot be the greatest
evil: for there is something worse, namely, either not to reckon as evil that which is really
evil, or not to reject it. Again, sorrow or pain, for that which is apparently evil, but really
good, cannot be the greatest evil, for it would be worse to be altogether separated from that
which is truly good. Hence it is impossible for any sorrow or pain to be man's greatest evil.

Reply Obj. 1: Pleasure and sorrow have two good points in common: namely, a true judgment concerning
good and evil; and the right order of the will in approving of good and rejecting evil. Thus
it is clear that in pain or sorrow there is a good, by the removal of which they become worse:
and yet there is not an evil in every pleasure, by the removal of which the pleasure is better.
Consequently, a pleasure can be man's highest good, in the way above stated (Q. 34, A. 3):
whereas sorrow cannot be man's greatest evil.

Reply Obj. 2: The very fact of the will being opposed to evil is a good. And for this reason,
sorrow or pain cannot be the greatest evil; because it has an admixture of good.

Reply Obj. 3: That which harms the better thing is worse than that which harms the worse. Now
a thing is called evil "because it harms," as Augustine says (Enchiridion xii). Therefore that
which is an evil to the soul is a greater evil than that which is an evil to the body. Therefore
this argument does not prove: nor does Augustine give it as his own, but as taken from another
[*Cornelius Celsus].

QUESTION 40

OF THE IRASCIBLE PASSIONS, AND FIRST, OF HOPE AND DESPAIR (In Eight Articles)

We must now consider the irascible passions: (1) Hope and despair; (2) Fear and daring; (3)
Anger. Under first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether hope is the same as desire or cupidity?

(2) Whether hope is in the apprehensive, or in the appetitive faculty?

(3) Whether hope is in dumb animals?

(4) Whether despair is contrary to hope?

(5) Whether experience is a cause of hope?

(6) Whether hope abounds in young men and drunkards?

(7) Concerning the order of hope to love;

(8) Whether love conduces to action?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 1]

Whether Hope Is the Same As Desire or Cupidity?

Objection 1: It would seem that hope is the same as desire or cupidity. Because hope is reckoned
as one of the four principal passions. But Augustine in setting down the four principal passions
puts cupidity in the place of hope (De Civ. Dei xiv, 3, 7). Therefore hope is the same as cupidity
or desire.

Obj. 2: Further, passions differ according to their objects. But the object of hope is the
same as the object of cupidity or desire, viz. the future good. Therefore hope is the same
as cupidity or desire.

Obj. 3: If it be said that hope, in addition to desire, denotes the possibility of obtaining
the future good; on the contrary, whatever is accidental to the object does not make a different
species of passion. But possibility of acquisition is accidental to a future good, which is
the object of cupidity or desire, and of hope. Therefore hope does not differ specifically
from desire or cupidity.

On the contrary, To different powers belong different species of passions. But hope is in the
irascible power; whereas desire or cupidity is in the concupiscible. Therefore hope differs
specifically from desire or cupidity.

I answer that, The species of a passion is taken from the object. Now, in the object of hope,
we may note four conditions. First, that it is something good; since, properly speaking, hope
regards only the good; in this respect, hope differs from fear, which regards evil. Secondly,
that it is future; for hope does not regard that which is present and already possessed: in
this respect, hope differs from joy which regards a present good. Thirdly, that it must be
something arduous and difficult to obtain, for we do not speak of any one hoping for trifles,
which are in one's power to have at any time: in this respect, hope differs from desire or
cupidity, which regards the future good absolutely: wherefore it belongs to the concupiscible,
while hope belongs to the irascible faculty. Fourthly, that this difficult thing is something
possible to obtain: for one does not hope for that which one cannot get at all: and, in this
respect, hope differs from despair. It is therefore evident that hope differs from desire,
as the irascible passions differ from the concupiscible. For this reason, moreover, hope presupposes
desire: just as all irascible passions presuppose the passions of the concupiscible faculty,
as stated above (Q. 25, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine mentions desire instead of hope, because each regards future good;
and because the good which is not arduous is reckoned as nothing: thus implying that desire
seems to tend chiefly to the arduous good, to which hope tends likewise.

Reply Obj. 2: The object of hope is the future good considered, not absolutely, but as arduous
and difficult of attainment, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: The object of hope adds not only possibility to the object of desire, but also
difficulty: and this makes hope belong to another power, viz. the irascible, which regards
something difficult, as stated in the First Part (Q. 81, A. 2). Moreover, possibility and impossibility
are not altogether accidental to the object of the appetitive power: because the appetite is
a principle of movement; and nothing is moved to anything except under the aspect of being
possible; for no one is moved to that which he reckons impossible to get. Consequently hope
differs from despair according to the difference of possible and impossible.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 2]

Whether Hope Is in the Apprehensive or in the Appetitive Power?

Objection 1: It would seem that hope belongs to the cognitive power. Because hope, seemingly,
is a kind of awaiting; for the Apostle says (Rom. 8:25): "If we hope for that which we see
not; we wait for it with patience." But awaiting seems to belong to the cognitive power, which
we exercise by looking out. Therefore hope belongs to the cognitive power.

Obj. 2: Further, apparently hope is the same as confidence; hence when a man hopes he is said
to be confident, as though to hope and to be confident were the same thing. But confidence,
like faith, seems to belong to the cognitive power. Therefore hope does too.

Obj. 3: Further, certainty is a property of the cognitive power. But certainty is ascribed
to hope. Therefore hope belongs to the cognitive power.

On the contrary, Hope regards good, as stated above (A. 1). Now good, as such, is not the object
of the cognitive, but of the appetitive power. Therefore hope belongs, not to the cognitive,
but to the appetitive power.

I answer that, Since hope denotes a certain stretching out of the appetite towards good, it
evidently belongs to the appetitive power; since movement towards things belongs properly to
the appetite: whereas the action of the cognitive power is accomplished not by the movement
of the knower towards things, but rather according as the things known are in the knower. But
since the cognitive power moves the appetite, by presenting its object to it; there arise in
the appetite various movements according to various aspects of the apprehended object. For
the apprehension of good gives rise to one kind of movement in the appetite, while the apprehension
of evil gives rise to another: in like manner various movements arise from the apprehension
of something present and of something future; of something considered absolutely, and of something
considered as arduous; of something possible, and of something impossible. And accordingly
hope is a movement of the appetitive power ensuing from the apprehension of a future good,
difficult but possible to obtain; namely, a stretching forth of the appetite to such a good.

Reply Obj. 1: Since hope regards a possible good, there arises in man a twofold movement of
hope; for a thing may be possible to him in two ways, viz. by his own power, or by another's.
Accordingly when a man hopes to obtain something by his own power, he is not said to wait for
it, but simply to hope for it. But, properly speaking, he is said to await that which he hopes
to get by another's help, as though to await (exspectare) implied keeping one's eyes on another
(ex alio spectare), in so far as the apprehensive power, by going ahead, not only keeps its
eye on the good which man intends to get, but also on the thing by whose power he hopes to
get it; according to Ecclus. 51:10, "I looked for the succor of men." Wherefore the movement
of hope is sometimes called expectation, on account of the preceding inspection of the cognitive
power.

Reply Obj. 2: When a man desires a thing and reckons that he can get it, he believes that he
can get it, he believes that he will get it; and from this belief which precedes in the cognitive
power, the ensuing movement in the appetite is called confidence. Because the movement of the
appetite takes its name from the knowledge that precedes it, as an effect from a cause which
is better known; for the apprehensive power knows its own act better than that of the appetite.

Reply Obj. 3: Certainty is ascribed to the movement, not only of the sensitive, but also of
the natural appetite; thus we say that a stone is certain to tend downwards. This is owing
to the inerrancy which the movement of the sensitive or even natural appetite derives from
the certainty of the knowledge that precedes it.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 3]

Whether Hope Is in Dumb Animals?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is no hope in dumb animals. Because hope is for some
future good, as Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 12). But knowledge of the future is not in
the competency of dumb animals, whose knowledge is confined to the senses and does not extend
to the future. Therefore there is no hope in dumb animals.

Obj. 2: Further, the object of hope is a future good, possible of attainment. But possible
and impossible are differences of the true and the false, which are only in the mind, as the
Philosopher states (Metaph. vi, 4). Therefore there is no hope in dumb animals, since they
have no mind.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. ix, 14) that "animals are moved by the things
that they see." But hope is of things unseen: "for what a man seeth, why doth he hope for?"
(Rom. 8:24). Therefore there is no hope in dumb animals.

On the contrary, Hope is an irascible passion. But the irascible faculty is in dumb animals.
Therefore hope is also.

I answer that, The internal passions of animals can be gathered from their outward movements:
from which it is clear that hope is in dumb animals. For if a dog see a hare, or a hawk see
a bird, too far off, it makes no movement towards it, as having no hope to catch it: whereas,
if it be near, it makes a movement towards it, as being in hopes of catching it. Because as
stated above (Q. 1, A. 2; Q. 26, A. 1; Q. 35, A. 1), the sensitive appetite of dumb animals,
and likewise the natural appetite of insensible things, result from the apprehension of an
intellect, just as the appetite of the intellectual nature, which is called the will. But there
is a difference, in that the will is moved by an apprehension of the intellect in the same
subject; whereas the movement of the natural appetite results from the apprehension of the
separate Intellect, Who is the Author of nature; as does also the sensitive appetite of dumb
animals, who act from a certain natural instinct. Consequently, in the actions of irrational
animals and of other natural things, we observe a procedure which is similar to that which
we observe in the actions of art: and in this way hope and despair are in dumb animals.

Reply Obj. 1: Although dumb animals do not know the future, yet an animal is moved by its natural
instinct to something future, as though it foresaw the future. Because this instinct is planted
in them by the Divine Intellect that foresees the future.

Reply Obj. 2: The object of hope is not the possible as differentiating the true, for thus
the possible ensues from the relation of a predicate to a subject. The object of hope is the
possible as compared to a power. For such is the division of the possible given in Metaph.
v, 12, i.e. into the two kinds we have just mentioned.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the thing which is future does not come under the object of sight; nevertheless
through seeing something present, an animal's appetite is moved to seek or avoid something future.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 4]

Whether Despair Is Contrary to Hope?

Objection 1: It would seem that despair is not contrary to hope. Because "to one thing there
is one contrary" (Metaph. x, 5). But fear is contrary to hope. Therefore despair is not contrary
to hope.

Obj. 2: Further, contraries seem to bear on the same thing. But hope and despair do not bear
on the same thing: since hope regards the good, whereas despair arises from some evil that
is in the way of obtaining good. Therefore hope is not contrary to despair.

Obj. 3: Further, movement is contrary to movement: while repose is in opposition to movement
as a privation thereof. But despair seems to imply immobility rather than movement. Therefore
it is not contrary to hope, which implies movement of stretching out towards the hoped-for good.

On the contrary, The very name of despair (desperatio) implies that it is contrary to hope (spes).

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 23, A. 2), there is a twofold contrariety of movements.
One is in respect of approach to contrary terms: and this contrariety alone is to be found
in the concupiscible passions, for instance between love and hatred. The other is according
to approach and withdrawal with regard to the same term; and is to be found in the irascible
passions, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 2). Now the object of hope, which is the arduous good,
has the character of a principle of attraction, if it be considered in the light of something
attainable; and thus hope tends thereto, for it denotes a kind of approach. But in so far as
it is considered as unobtainable, it has the character of a principle of repulsion, because,
as stated in Ethic. iii, 3, "when men come to an impossibility they disperse." And this is
how despair stands in regard to this object, wherefore it implies a movement of withdrawal:
and consequently it is contrary to hope, as withdrawal is to approach.

Reply Obj. 1: Fear is contrary to hope, because their objects, i.e. good and evil, are contrary:
for this contrariety is found in the irascible passions, according as they ensue from the passions
of the concupiscible. But despair is contrary to hope, only by contrariety of approach and
withdrawal.

Reply Obj. 2: Despair does not regard evil as such; sometimes however it regards evil accidentally,
as making the difficult good impossible to obtain. But it can arise from the mere excess of good.

Reply Obj. 3: Despair implies not only privation of hope, but also a recoil from the thing
desired, by reason of its being esteemed impossible to get. Hence despair, like hope, presupposes
desire; because we neither hope for nor despair of that which we do not desire to have. For
this reason, too, each of them regards the good, which is the object of desire.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 5]

Whether Experience Is a Cause of Hope?

Objection 1: It would seem that experience is not a cause of hope. Because experience belongs
to the cognitive power; wherefore the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 1) that "intellectual virtue
needs experience and time." But hope is not in the cognitive power, but in the appetite, as
stated above (A. 2). Therefore experience is not a cause of hope.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 13) that "the old are slow to hope, on account
of their experience"; whence it seems to follow that experience causes want of hope. But the
same cause is not productive of opposites. Therefore experience is not a cause of hope.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (De Coel. ii, 5) that "to have something to say about
everything, without leaving anything out, is sometimes a proof of folly." But to attempt everything
seems to point to great hopes; while folly arises from inexperience. Therefore inexperience,
rather than experience, seems to be a cause of hope.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) "some are hopeful, through having been
victorious often and over many opponents": which seems to pertain to experience. Therefore
experience is a cause of hope.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the object of hope is a future good, difficult but possible
to obtain. Consequently a thing may be a cause of hope, either because it makes something possible
to a man: or because it makes him think something possible. In the first way hope is caused
by everything that increases a man's power; e.g. riches, strength, and, among others, experience:
since by experience man acquires the faculty of doing something easily, and the result of this
is hope. Wherefore Vegetius says (De Re Milit. i): "No one fears to do that which he is sure
of having learned well."

In the second way, hope is caused by everything that makes man think that he can obtain something:
and thus both teaching and persuasion may be a cause of hope. And then again experience is
a cause of hope, in so far as it makes him reckon something possible, which before his experience
he looked upon as impossible. However, in this way, experience can cause a lack of hope: because
just as it makes a man think possible what he had previously thought impossible; so, conversely,
experience makes a man consider as impossible that which hitherto he had thought possible.
Accordingly experience causes hope in two ways, despair in one way: and for this reason we
may say rather that it causes hope.

Reply Obj. 1: Experience in matters pertaining to action not only produces knowledge; it also
causes a certain habit, by reason of custom, which renders the action easier. Moreover, the
intellectual virtue itself adds to the power of acting with ease: because it shows something
to be possible; and thus is a cause of hope.

Reply Obj. 2: The old are wanting in hope because of their experience, in so far as experience
makes them think something impossible. Hence he adds (Rhet. ii, 13) that "many evils have befallen
them."

Reply Obj. 3: Folly and inexperience can be a cause of hope accidentally as it were, by removing
the knowledge which would help one to judge truly a thing to be impossible. Wherefore inexperience
is a cause of hope, for the same reason as experience causes lack of hope.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 6]

Whether Hope Abounds in Young Men and Drunkards?

Objection 1: It would seem that youth and drunkenness are not causes of hope. Because hope
implies certainty and steadiness; so much so that it is compared to an anchor (Heb. 6:19).
But young men and drunkards are wanting in steadiness; since their minds are easily changed.
Therefore youth and drunkenness are not causes of hope.

Obj. 2: Further, as stated above (A. 5), the cause of hope is chiefly whatever increases one's
power. But youth and drunkenness are united to weakness. Therefore they are not causes of hope.

Obj. 3: Further, experience is a cause of hope, as stated above (A. 5). But youth lacks experience.
Therefore it is not a cause of hope.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that "drunken men are hopeful": and (Rhet.
ii, 12) that "the young are full of hope."

I answer that, Youth is a cause of hope for three reasons, as the Philosopher states in Rhet.
ii, 12: and these three reasons may be gathered from the three conditions of the good which
is the object of hope--namely, that it is future, arduous and possible, as stated above (A.
1). For youth has much of the future before it, and little of the past: and therefore since
memory is of the past, and hope of the future, it has little to remember and lives very much
in hope. Again, youths, on account of the heat of their nature, are full of spirit; so that
their heart expands: and it is owing to the heart being expanded that one tends to that which
is arduous; wherefore youths are spirited and hopeful. Likewise they who have not suffered
defeat, nor had experience of obstacles to their efforts, are prone to count a thing possible
to them. Wherefore youths, through inexperience of obstacles and of their own shortcomings,
easily count a thing possible; and consequently are of good hope. Two of these causes are also
in those who are in drink--viz. heat and high spirits, on account of wine, and heedlessness
of dangers and shortcomings. For the same reason all foolish and thoughtless persons attempt
everything and are full of hope.

Reply Obj. 1: Although youths and men in drink lack steadiness in reality, yet they are steady
in their own estimation, for they think that they will steadily obtain that which they hope for.

In like manner, in reply to the Second Objection, we must observe that young people and men
in drink are indeed unsteady in reality: but, in their own estimation, they are capable, for
they know not their shortcomings.

Reply Obj. 3: Not only experience, but also lack of experience, is, in some way, a cause of
hope, as explained above (A. 5, ad 3).

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 7]

Whether Hope Is a Cause of Love? But hope is an emotion of the soul. Therefore love precedes
hope, and consequently hope does not cause love.

Obj. 2: Further, desire precedes hope. But desire is caused by love, as stated above (Q. 25,
A. 2). Therefore hope, too, follows love, and consequently is not its cause.

Obj. 3: Further, hope causes pleasure, as stated above (Q. 32, A. 3). But pleasure is only
of the good that is loved. Therefore love precedes hope.

On the contrary, The gloss commenting on Matt. 1:2, "Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob,"
says, i.e. "faith begets hope, and hope begets charity." But charity is love. Therefore love
is caused by hope.

I answer that, Hope can regard two things. For it regards as its object, the good which one
hopes for. But since the good we hope for is something difficult but possible to obtain; and
since it happens sometimes that what is difficult becomes possible to us, not through ourselves
but through others; hence it is that hope regards also that by which something becomes possible
to us.

In so far, then, as hope regards the good we hope to get, it is caused by love: since we do
not hope save for that which we desire and love. But in so far as hope regards one through
whom something becomes possible to us, love is caused by hope, and not vice versa. Because
by the very fact that we hope that good will accrue to us through someone, we are moved towards
him as to our own good; and thus we begin to love him. Whereas from the fact that we love someone
we do not hope in him, except accidentally, that is, in so far as we think that he returns
our love. Wherefore the fact of being loved by another makes us hope in him; but our love for
him is caused by the hope we have in him.

Wherefore the Replies to the Objections are evident.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 40, Art. 8]

Whether Hope Is a Help or a Hindrance to Action?

Objection 1: It would seem that hope is not a help but a hindrance to action. Because hope
implies security. But security begets negligence which hinders action. Therefore hope is a
hindrance to action.

Obj. 2: Further, sorrow hinders action, as stated above (Q. 37, A. 3).

Obj. 3: Further, despair is contrary to hope, as stated above (A. 4). But despair, especially
in matters of war, conduces to action; for it is written (2 Kings 2:26), that "it is dangerous
to drive people to despair." Therefore hope has a contrary effect, namely, by hindering action.

I answer that, Hope of its very nature is a help to action by making it more intense: and this
for two reasons. First, by reason of its object, which is a good, difficult but possible. For
the thought of its being difficult arouses our attention; while the thought that it is possible
is no drag on our effort. Hence it follows that by reason of hope man is intent on his action.
Secondly, on account of its effect. Because hope, as stated above (Q. 32, A. 3), causes pleasure;
which is a help to action, as stated above (Q. 33, A. 4). Therefore hope is conducive to action.

Reply Obj. 1: Hope regards a good to be obtained; security regards an evil to be avoided. Wherefore
security seems to be contrary to fear rather than to belong to hope. Yet security does not
beget negligence, save in so far as it lessens the idea of difficulty: whereby it also lessens
the character of hope: for the things in which a man fears no hindrance, are no longer looked
upon as difficult.

Reply Obj. 2: Hope of itself causes pleasure; it is by accident that it causes sorrow, as stated
above (Q. 32, A. 3, ad 2).

Reply Obj. 3: Despair threatens danger in war, on account of a certain hope that attaches to
it. For they who despair of flight, strive less to fly, but hope to avenge their death: and
therefore in this hope they fight the more bravely, and consequently prove dangerous to the foe.

QUESTION 41

OF FEAR, IN ITSELF (In Four Articles)

We must now consider, in the first place, fear; and, secondly, daring. With regard to fear,
four things must be considered: (1) Fear, in itself; (2) Its object; (3) Its cause; (4) Its
effect. Under the first head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether fear is a passion of the soul?

(2) Whether fear is a special passion?

(3) Whether there is a natural fear?

(4) Of the species of fear.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 41, Art. 1]

Whether Fear Is a Passion of the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that fear is not a passion of the soul. For Damascene says (De Fide
Orth. iii, 23) that "fear is a power, by way of systole"--i.e. of contraction--"desirous of
vindicating nature." But no virtue is a passion, as is proved in Ethic. ii, 5. Therefore fear
is not a passion.

Obj. 2: Further, every passion is an effect due to the presence of an agent. But fear is not
of something present, but of something future, as Damascene declares (De Fide Orth. ii, 12).
Therefore fear is not a passion.

Obj. 3: Further, every passion of the soul is a movement of the sensitive appetite, in consequence
of an apprehension of the senses. But sense apprehends, not the future but the present.

I answer that, Among the other passions of the soul, after sorrow, fear chiefly has the character
of passion. For as we have stated above (Q. 22), the notion of passion implies first of all
a movement of a passive power--i.e. of a power whose object is compared to it as its active
principle: since passion is the effect of an agent. In this way, both to feel and to understand
are passions. Secondly, more properly speaking, passion is a movement of the appetitive power;
and more properly still, it is a movement of an appetitive power that has a bodily organ, such
movement being accompanied by a bodily transmutation. And, again, most properly those movements
are called passions, which imply some deterioration. Now it is evident that fear, since it
regards evil, belongs to the appetitive power, which of itself regards good and evil. Moreover,
it belongs to the sensitive appetite: for it is accompanied by a certain transmutation--i.e.
contraction--as Damascene says (Cf. Obj. 1). Again, it implies relation to evil as overcoming,
so to speak, some particular good. Wherefore it has most properly the character of passion;
less, however, than sorrow, which regards the present evil: because fear regards future evil,
which is not so strong a motive as present evil.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue denotes a principle of action: wherefore, in so far as the interior movements
of the appetitive faculty are principles of external action, they are called virtues. But the
Philosopher denies that passion is a virtue by way of habit.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as the passion of a natural body is due to the bodily presence of an agent,
so is the passion of the soul due to the agent being present to the soul, although neither
corporally nor really present: that is to say, in so far as the evil which is really future,
is present in the apprehension of the soul.

Reply Obj. 3: The senses do not apprehend the future: but from apprehending the present, an
animal is moved by natural instinct to hope for a future good, or to fear a future evil.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 41, Art. 2]

Whether Fear Is a Special Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that fear is not a special passion. For Augustine says (QQ. 83,
qu. 33) that "the man who is not distraught by fear, is neither harassed by desire, nor wounded
by sickness"--i.e. sorrow--"nor tossed about in transports of empty joys." Wherefore it seems
that, if fear be set aside, all the other passions are removed. Therefore fear is not a special
but a general passion.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. vi, 2) that "pursuit and avoidance in the appetite
are what affirmation and denial are in the intellect." But denial is nothing special in the
intellect, as neither is affirmation, but something common to many. Therefore neither is avoidance
anything special in the appetite. But fear is nothing but a kind of avoidance of evil. Therefore
it is not a special passion.

Obj. 3: Further, if fear were a special passion, it would be chiefly in the irascible part.
Therefore fear is not a special passion, since it belongs to different powers.

On the contrary, Fear is condivided with the other passions of the soul, as is clear from Damascene
(De Fide Orth. ii, 12, 15).

I answer that, The passions of the soul derive their species from their objects: hence that
is a special passion, which has a special object. Now fear has a special object, as hope has.
For just as the object of hope is a future good, difficult but possible to obtain; so the object
of fear is a future evil, difficult and irresistible. Consequently fear is a special passion
of the soul.

Reply Obj. 1: All the passions of the soul arise from one source, viz. love, wherein they are
connected with one another. By reason of this connection, when fear is put aside, the other
passions of the soul are dispersed; not, however, as though it were a general passion.

Reply Obj. 2: Not every avoidance in the appetite is fear, but avoidance of a special object,
as stated. Wherefore, though avoidance be something common, yet fear is a special passion.

Reply Obj. 3: Fear is nowise in the concupiscible: for it regards evil, not absolutely, but
as difficult or arduous, so as to be almost unavoidable. But since the irascible passions arise
from the passions of the concupiscible faculty, and terminate therein, as stated above (Q.
25, A. 1); hence it is that what belongs to the concupiscible is ascribed to fear. For fear
is called sorrow, in so far as the object of fear causes sorrow when present: wherefore the
Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that fear arises "from the representation of a future evil which
is either corruptive or painful." In like manner desire is ascribed by Damascene to fear, because
just as hope arises from the desire of good, so fear arises from avoidance of evil; while avoidance
of evil arises from the desire of good, as is evident from what has been said above (Q. 25,
A. 2; Q. 29, A. 2; Q. 36, A. 2).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 41, Art. 3]

Whether There Is a Natural Fear?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is a natural fear. For Damascene says (De Fide Orth.
iii, 23) that "there is a natural fear, through the soul refusing to be severed from the body."

Obj. 2: Further, fear arises from love, as stated above (A. 2, ad 1). But there is a natural
love, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv). Therefore there is also a natural fear.

Obj. 3: Further, fear is opposed to hope, as stated above (Q. 40, A. 4, ad 1). But there is
a hope of nature, as is evident from Rom. 4:18, where it is said of Abraham that "against hope"
of nature, "he believed in hope" of grace. Therefore there is also a fear of nature.

On the contrary, That which is natural is common to things animate and inanimate. But fear
is not in things inanimate. Therefore there is no natural fear.

I answer that, A movement is said to be natural, because nature inclines thereto. Now this
happens in two ways. First, so that it is entirely accomplished by nature, without any operation
of the apprehensive faculty: thus to have an upward movement is natural to fire, and to grow
is the natural movement of animals and plants. Secondly, a movement is said to be natural,
if nature inclines thereto, though it be accomplished by the apprehensive faculty alone: since,
as stated above (Q. 10, A. 1), the movements of the cognitive and appetitive faculties are
reducible to nature as to their first principle. In this way, even the acts of the apprehensive
power, such as understanding, feeling, and remembering, as well as the movements of the animal
appetite, are sometimes said to be natural.

And in this sense we may say that there is a natural fear; and it is distinguished from non-natural
fear, by reason of the diversity of its object. For, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5),
there is a fear of "corruptive evil," which nature shrinks from on account of its natural desire
to exist; and such fear is said to be natural. Again, there is a fear of "painful evil," which
is repugnant not to nature, but to the desire of the appetite; and such fear is not natural.
In this sense we have stated above (Q. 26, A. 1; Q. 30, A. 3; Q. 31, A. 7) that love, desire,
and pleasure are divisible into natural and non-natural.

But in the first sense of the word "natural," we must observe that certain passions of the
soul are sometimes said to be natural, as love, desire, and hope; whereas the others cannot
be called natural. The reason of this is because love and hatred, desire and avoidance, imply
a certain inclination to pursue what is good or to avoid what is evil; which inclination is
to be found in the natural appetite also. Consequently there is a natural love; while we may
also speak of desire and hope as being even in natural things devoid of knowledge. On the other
hand the other passions of the soul denote certain movements, whereto the natural inclination
is nowise sufficient. This is due either to the fact that perception or knowledge is essential
to these passions (thus we have said, Q. 31, AA. 1, 3; Q. 35, A. 1, that apprehension is a
necessary condition of pleasure and sorrow), wherefore things devoid of knowledge cannot be
said to take pleasure or to be sorrowful: or else it is because such like movements are contrary
to the very nature of natural inclination: for instance, despair flies from good on account
of some difficulty; and fear shrinks from repelling a contrary evil; both of which are contrary
to the inclination of nature. Wherefore such like passions are in no way ascribed to inanimate
beings.

Thus the Replies to the Objections are evident.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 41, Art. 4]

Whether the Species of Fear Are Suitably Assigned?

Objection 1: It would seem that six species of fear are unsuitably assigned by Damascene (De
Fide Orth. ii, 15); namely, "laziness, shamefacedness, shame, amazement, stupor, and anxiety."
Because, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5), "fear regards a saddening evil." Therefore
the species of fear should correspond to the species of sorrow. Now there are four species
of sorrow, as stated above (Q. 35, A. 8). Therefore there should only be four species of fear
corresponding to them.

Obj. 2: Further, that which consists in an action of our own is in our power. But fear regards
an evil that surpasses our power, as stated above (A. 2). Therefore laziness, shamefacedness,
and shame, which regard our own actions, should not be reckoned as species of fear.

Obj. 3: Further, fear is of the future, as stated above (AA. 1, 2). But "shame regards a disgraceful
deed already done," as Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius, De Nat. Hom. xx.] says. Therefore shame
is not a species of fear.

Obj. 4: Further, fear is only of evil. But amazement and stupor regard great and unwonted things,
whether good or evil. Therefore amazement and stupor are not species of fear.

Obj. 5: Further, Philosophers have been led by amazement to seek the truth, as stated in the
beginning of Metaph. But fear leads to flight rather than to search. Therefore amazement is
not a species of fear.

On the contrary suffices the authority of Damascene and Gregory of Nyssa [*Nemesius] (Cf. Obj.
1, 3).

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), fear regards a future evil which surpasses the power
of him that fears, so that it is irresistible. Now man's evil, like his good, may be considered
either in his action or in external things. In his action he has a twofold evil to fear. First,
there is the toil that burdens his nature: and hence arises laziness, as when a man shrinks
from work for fear of too much toil. Secondly, there is the disgrace which damages him in the
opinion of others. And thus, if disgrace is feared in a deed that is yet to be done, there
is shamefacedness; if, however, it be a deed already done, there is shame.

On the other hand, the evil that consists in external things may surpass man's faculty of resistance
in three ways. First by reason of its magnitude; when, that is to say, a man considers some
great evil the outcome of which he is unable to gauge: and then there is amazement. Secondly,
by reason of its being unwonted; because, to wit, some unwonted evil arises before us, and
on that account is great in our estimation: and then there is stupor, which is caused by the
representation of something unwonted. Thirdly, by reason of its being unforeseen: thus future
misfortunes are feared, and fear of this kind is called anxiety.

Reply Obj. 1: Those species of sorrow given above are not derived from the diversity of objects,
but from the diversity of effects, and for certain special reasons. Consequently there is no
need for those species of sorrow to correspond with these species of fear, which are derived
from the proper division of the object of fear itself.

Reply Obj. 2: A deed considered as being actually done, is in the power of the doer. But it
is possible to take into consideration something connected with the deed, and surpassing the
faculty of the doer, for which reason he shrinks from the deed. It is in this sense that laziness,
shamefacedness, and shame are reckoned as species of fear.

Reply Obj. 3: The past deed may be the occasion of fear of future reproach or disgrace: and
in this sense shame is a species of fear.

Reply Obj. 4: Not every amazement and stupor are species of fear, but that amazement which
is caused by a great evil, and that stupor which arises from an unwonted evil. Or else we may
say that, just as laziness shrinks from the toil of external work, so amazement and stupor
shrink from the difficulty of considering a great and unwonted thing, whether good or evil:
so that amazement and stupor stand in relation to the act of the intellect, as laziness does
to external work.

Reply Obj. 5: He who is amazed shrinks at present from forming a judgment of that which amazes
him, fearing to fall short of the truth, but inquires afterwards: whereas he who is overcome
by stupor fears both to judge at present, and to inquire afterwards. Wherefore amazement is
a beginning of philosophical research: whereas stupor is a hindrance thereto.

QUESTION 42

OF THE OBJECT OF FEAR (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the object of fear: under which head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether good or evil is the object of fear?

(2) Whether evil of nature is the object of fear?

(3) Whether the evil of sin is an object of fear?

(4) Whether fear itself can be feared?

(5) Whether sudden things are especially feared?

(6) Whether those things are more feared against which there is no remedy?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 42, Art. 1]

Whether the Object of Fear Is Good or Evil?

Objection 1: It would seem that good is the object of fear. For Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu.
83) that "we fear nothing save to lose what we love and possess, or not to obtain that which
we hope for." But that which we love is good. Therefore fear regards good as its proper object.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "power and to be above another is
a thing to be feared." But this is a good thing. Therefore good is the object of fear.

Obj. 3: Further, there can be no evil in God. But we are commanded to fear God, according to
Ps. 33:10: "Fear the Lord, all ye saints." Therefore even the good is an object of fear.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 12) that fear is of future evil.

I answer that, Fear is a movement of the appetitive power. Now it belongs to the appetitive
power to pursue and to avoid, as stated in Ethic. vi, 2: and pursuit is of good, while avoidance
is of evil. Consequently whatever movement of the appetitive power implies pursuit, has some
good for its object: and whatever movement implies avoidance, has an evil for its object. Wherefore,
since fear implies an avoidance, in the first place and of its very nature it regards evil
as its proper object.

It can, however, regard good also, in so far as referable to evil. This can be in two ways.
In one way, inasmuch as an evil causes privation of good. Now a thing is evil from the very
fact that it is a privation of some good. Wherefore, since evil is shunned because it is evil,
it follows that it is shunned because it deprives one of the good that one pursues through
love thereof. And in this sense Augustine says that there is no cause for fear, save loss of
the good we love.

In another way, good stands related to evil as its cause: in so far as some good can by its
power bring harm to the good we love: and so, just as hope, as stated above (Q. 40, A. 7),
regards two things, namely, the good to which it tends, and the thing through which there is
a hope of obtaining the desired good; so also does fear regard two things, namely, the evil
from which it shrinks, and that good which, by its power, can inflict that evil. In this way
God is feared by man, inasmuch as He can inflict punishment, spiritual or corporal. In this
way, too, we fear the power of man; especially when it has been thwarted, or when it is unjust,
because then it is more likely to do us a harm.

In like manner one fears to be over another, i.e. to lean on another, so that it is in his
power to do us a harm: thus a man fears another, who knows him to be guilty of a crime, lest
he reveal it to others.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 42, Art. 2]

Whether Evil of Nature Is an Object of Fear?

Objection 1: It would seem that evil of nature is not an object of fear. For the Philosopher
says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "fear makes us take counsel." But we do not take counsel about things
which happen naturally, as stated in Ethic. iii, 3. Therefore evil of nature is not an object
of fear.

Obj. 2: Further, natural defects such as death and the like are always threatening man. If
therefore such like evils were an object of fear, man would needs be always in fear.

Obj. 3: Further, nature does not move to contraries. But evil of nature is an effect of nature.
Therefore if a man shrinks from such like evils through fear thereof, this is not an effect
of nature. Therefore natural fear is not of the evil of nature; and yet it seems that it should be.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 6) that "the most terrible of all things
is death," which is an evil of nature.

I answer that, As the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5), fear is caused by the "imagination of
a future evil which is either corruptive or painful." Now just as a painful evil is that which
is contrary to the will, so a corruptive evil is that which is contrary to nature: and this
is the evil of nature. Consequently evil of nature can be the object of fear.

But it must be observed that evil of nature sometimes arises from a natural cause; and then
it is called evil of nature, not merely from being a privation of the good of nature, but also
from being an effect of nature; such are natural death and other like defects. But sometimes
evil of nature arises from a non-natural cause; such as violent death inflicted by an assailant.
In either case evil of nature is feared to a certain extent, and to a certain extent not. For
since fear arises "from the imagination of future evil," as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii,
5), whatever removes the imagination of the future evil, removes fear also. Now it may happen
in two ways that an evil may not appear as about to be. First, through being remote and far
off: for, on account of the distance, such a thing is considered as though it were not to be.
Hence we either do not fear it, or fear it but little; for, as the Philosopher says (Rhet.
ii, 5), "we do not fear things that are very far off; since all know that they shall die, but
as death is not near, they heed it not." Secondly, a future evil is considered as though it
were not to be, on account of its being inevitable, wherefore we look upon it as already present.
Hence the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "those who are already on the scaffold, are not
afraid," seeing that they are on the very point of a death from which there is no escape; "but
in order that a man be afraid, there must be some hope of escape for him."

Consequently evil of nature is not feared if it be not apprehended as future: but if evil of
nature, that is corruptive, be apprehended as near at hand, and yet with some hope of escape,
then it will be feared.

Reply Obj. 1: The evil of nature sometimes is not an effect of nature, as stated above. But
in so far as it is an effect of nature, although it may be impossible to avoid it entirely,
yet it may be possible to delay it. And with this hope one may take counsel about avoiding it.

Reply Obj. 2: Although evil of nature ever threatens, yet it does not always threaten from
near at hand: and consequently it is not always feared.

Reply Obj. 3: Death and other defects of nature are the effects of the common nature; and yet
the individual nature rebels against them as far as it can. Accordingly, from the inclination
of the individual nature arise pain and sorrow for such like evils, when present; fear when
threatening in the future.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 42, Art. 3]

Whether the Evil of Sin Is an Object of Fear?

Objection 1: It would seem that the evil of sin can be an object of fear. For Augustine says
on the canonical Epistle of John (Tract. ix), that "by chaste fear man fears to be severed
from God." Now nothing but sin severs us from God; according to Isa. 59:2: "Your iniquities
have divided between you and your God." Therefore the evil of sin can be an object of fear.

Obj. 2: Further, Cicero says (Quaest. Tusc. iv, 4, 6) that "we fear when they are yet to come,
those things which give us pain when they are present." But it is possible for one to be pained
or sorrowful on account of the evil of sin. Therefore one can also fear the evil of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, hope is contrary to fear. But the good of virtue can be the object of hope,
as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. ix, 4): and the Apostle says (Gal. 5:10): "I have confidence
in you in the Lord, that you will not be of another mind." Therefore fear can regard evil of sin.

Obj. 4: Further, shame is a kind of fear, as stated above (Q. 41, A. 4). But shame regards
a disgraceful deed, which is an evil of sin. Therefore fear does so likewise.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "not all evils are feared, for instance
that someone be unjust or slow." From this we may gather that whatever is entirely subject
to our power and will, is not an object of fear; and that nothing gives rise to fear save what
is due to an external cause. Now human will is the proper cause of the evil of sin: and consequently
evil of sin, properly speaking, is not an object of fear.

But since the human will may be inclined to sin by an extrinsic cause; if this cause have a
strong power of inclination, in that respect a man may fear the evil of sin, in so far as it
arises from that extrinsic cause: as when he fears to dwell in the company of wicked men, lest
he be led by them to sin. But, properly speaking, a man thus disposed, fears the being led
astray rather than the sin considered in its proper nature, i.e. as a voluntary act; for considered
in this light it is not an object of fear to him.

Reply Obj. 1: Separation from God is a punishment resulting from sin: and every punishment
is, in some way, due to an extrinsic cause.

Reply Obj. 2: Sorrow and fear agree in one point, since each regards evil: they differ, however,
in two points. First, because sorrow is about present evil, whereas fear is future evil. Secondly,
because sorrow, being in the concupiscible faculty, regards evil absolutely; wherefore it can
be about any evil, great or small; whereas fear, being in the irascible part, regards evil
with the addition of a certain arduousness or difficulty; which difficulty ceases in so far
as a thing is subject to the will. Consequently not all things that give us pain when they
are present, make us fear when they are yet to come, but only some things, namely, those that
are difficult.

Reply Obj. 3: Hope is of good that is obtainable. Now one may obtain a good either of oneself,
or through another: and so, hope may be of an act of virtue, which lies within our own power.
On the other hand, fear is of an evil that does not lie in our own power: and consequently
the evil which is feared is always from an extrinsic cause; while the good that is hoped for
may be both from an intrinsic and from an extrinsic cause.

Reply Obj. 4: As stated above (Q. 41, A. 4, ad 2, 3), shame is not fear of the very act of
sin, but of the disgrace or ignominy which arises therefrom, and which is due to an extrinsic
cause.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 42, Art. 4]

Whether Fear Itself Can Be Feared?

Objection 1: It would seem that fear cannot be feared. For whatever is feared, is prevented
from being lost, through fear thereof: thus a man who fears to lose his health, keeps it, through
fearing its loss. If therefore a man be afraid of fear, he will keep himself from fear by being
afraid: which seems absurd.

Obj. 2: Further, fear is a kind of flight. But nothing flies from itself. Therefore fear cannot
be the object of fear.

Obj. 3: Further, fear is about the future. But fear is present to him that fears. Therefore
it cannot be the object of his fear.

On the contrary, A man can love his own love, and can grieve at his own sorrow. Therefore,
in like manner, he can fear his own fear.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), nothing can be an object of fear, save what is due to
an extrinsic cause; but not that which ensues from our own will. Now fear partly arises from
an extrinsic cause, and is partly subject to the will. It is due to an extrinsic cause, in
so far as it is a passion resulting from the imagination of an imminent evil. In this sense
it is possible for fear to be the object of fear, i.e. a man may fear lest he should be threatened
by the necessity of fearing, through being assailed by some great evil. It is subject to the
will, in so far as the lower appetite obeys reason; wherefore man is able to drive fear away.
In this sense fear cannot be the object of fear, as Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 33). Lest,
however, anyone make use of his arguments, in order to prove that fear cannot be at all be
the object of fear, we must add a solution to the same.

Reply Obj. 1: Not every fear is identically the same; there are various fears according to
the various objects of fear. Nothing, then, prevents a man from keeping himself from fearing
one thing, by fearing another, so that the fear which he has preserves him from the fear which
he has not.

Reply Obj. 2: Since fear of an imminent evil is not identical with the fear of the fear of
imminent evil; it does not follow that a thing flies from itself, or that it is the same flight
in both cases.

Reply Obj. 3: On account of the various kinds of fear already alluded to (ad 2) a man's present
fear may have a future fear for its object.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 42, Art. 5]

Whether Sudden Things Are Especially Feared?

Objection 1: It would seem that unwonted and sudden things are not especially feared. Because,
as hope is about good things, so fear is about evil things. But experience conduces to the
increase of hope in good things. Therefore it also adds to fear in evil things.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "those are feared most, not who are
quick-tempered, but who are gentle and cunning." Now it is clear that those who are quick-tempered
are more subject to sudden emotions. Therefore sudden things are less to be feared.

Obj. 3: Further, we think less about things that happen suddenly. But the more we think about
a thing, the more we fear it; hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that "some appear
to be courageous through ignorance, but as soon as they discover that the case is different
from what they expected, they run away." Therefore sudden things are feared less.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Confess. ii, 6): "Fear is startled at things unwonted and
sudden, which endanger things beloved, and takes forethought for their safety."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3; Q. 41, A. 2), the object of fear is an imminent evil,
which can be repelled, but with difficulty. Now this is due to one of two causes: to the greatness
of the evil, or to the weakness of him that fears; while unwontedness and suddenness conduce
to both of these causes. First, it helps an imminent evil to seem greater. Because all material
things, whether good or evil, the more we consider them, the smaller they seem. Consequently,
just as sorrow for a present evil is mitigated in course of time, as Cicero states (De Quaest.
Tusc. iii, 30); so, too, fear of a future evil is diminished by thinking about it beforehand.
Secondly, unwontedness and suddenness increase the weakness of him that fears, in so far as
they deprive him of the remedies with which he might otherwise provide himself to forestall
the coming evil, were it not for the evil taking him by surprise.

Reply Obj. 1: The object of hope is a good that is possible to obtain. Consequently whatever
increases a man's power, is of a nature to increase hope, and, for the same reason, to diminish
fear, since fear is about an evil which cannot be easily repelled. Since, therefore, experience
increases a man's power of action, therefore, as it increases hope, so does it diminish fear.

Reply Obj. 2: Those who are quick-tempered do not hide their anger; wherefore the harm they
do others is not so sudden, as not to be foreseen. On the other hand, those who are gentle
or cunning hide their anger; wherefore the harm which may be impending from them, cannot be
foreseen, but takes one by surprise. For this reason the Philosopher says that such men are
feared more than others.

Reply Obj. 3: Bodily good or evil, considered in itself, seems greater at first. The reason
for this is that a thing is more obvious when seen in juxtaposition with its contrary. Hence,
when a man passes unexpectedly from penury to wealth, he thinks more of his wealth on account
of his previous poverty: while, on the other hand, the rich man who suddenly becomes poor,
finds poverty all the more disagreeable. For this reason sudden evil is feared more, because
it seems more to be evil. However, it may happen through some accident that the greatness of
some evil is hidden; for instance if the foe hides himself in ambush: and then it is true that
evil inspires greater fear through being much thought about.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 42, Art. 6]

Whether Those Things Are More Feared, for Which There Is No Remedy?

Objection 1: It would seem that those things are not more to be feared, for which there is
no remedy. Because it is a condition of fear, that there be some hope of safety, as stated
above (A. 2). But an evil that cannot be remedied leaves no hope of escape. Therefore such
things are not feared at all.

Obj. 2: Further, there is no remedy for the evil of death: since, in the natural course of
things, there is no return from death to life. And yet death is not the most feared of all
things, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5). Therefore those things are not feared most,
for which there is no remedy.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 6) that "a thing which lasts long is no better
than that which lasts but one day: nor is that which lasts for ever any better than that which
is not everlasting": and the same applies to evil. But things that cannot be remedied seem
to differ from other things, merely in the point of their lasting long or for ever. Consequently
they are not therefore any worse or more to be feared.

On the contrary, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "those things are most to be feared
which when done wrong cannot be put right . . . or for which there is no help, or which are
not easy."

I answer that, The object of fear is evil: consequently whatever tends to increase evil, conduces
to the increase of fear. Now evil is increased not only in its species of evil, but also in
respect of circumstances, as stated above (Q. 18, A. 3). And of all the circumstances, longlastingness,
or even everlastingness, seems to have the greatest bearing on the increase of evil. Because
things that exist in time are measured, in a way, according to the duration of time: wherefore
if it be an evil to suffer something for a certain length of time, we should reckon the evil
doubled, if it be suffered for twice that length of time. And accordingly, to suffer the same
thing for an infinite length of time, i.e. for ever, implies, so to speak, an infinite increase.
Now those evils which, after they have come, cannot be remedied at all, or at least not easily,
are considered as lasting for ever or for a long time: for which reason they inspire the greatest
fear.

Reply Obj. 1: Remedy for an evil is twofold. One, by which a future evil is warded off from
coming. If such a remedy be removed, there is an end to hope and consequently to fear; wherefore
we do not speak now of remedies of that kind. The other remedy is one by which an already present
evil is removed: and of such a remedy we speak now.

Reply Obj. 2: Although death be an evil without remedy, yet, since it threatens not from near,
it is not feared, as stated above (A. 2).

Reply Obj. 3: The Philosopher is speaking there of things that are good in themselves, i.e.,
good specifically. And such like good is no better for lasting long or for ever: its goodness
depends on its very nature.

QUESTION 43

OF THE CAUSE OF FEAR (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the cause of fear: under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether love is the cause of fear?

(2) Whether defect is the cause of fear?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 43, Art. 1]

Whether Love Is the Cause of Fear?

Objection 1: It would seem that love is not the cause of fear. For that which leads to a thing
is its cause. But "fear leads to the love of charity" as Augustine says on the canonical epistle
of John (Tract. ix). Therefore fear is the cause of love, and not conversely.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "those are feared most from whom we
dread the advent of some evil." But the dread of evil being caused by someone, makes us hate
rather than love him. Therefore fear is caused by hate rather than by love.

Obj. 3: Further, it has been stated above (Q. 42, A. 3) that those things which occur by our
own doing are not fearful. But that which we do from love, is done from our inmost heart. Therefore
fear is not caused by love.

On the contrary, Augustine says (QQ. 83, qu. 33): "There can be no doubt that there is no cause
for fear save the loss of what we love, when we possess it, or the failure to obtain what we
hope for." Therefore all fear is caused by our loving something: and consequently love is the
cause of fear.

I answer that, The objects of the soul's passions stand in relation thereto as the forms to
things natural or artificial: because the passions of the soul take their species from their
objects, as the aforesaid things do from their forms. Therefore, just as whatever is a cause
of the form, is a cause of the thing constituted by that form, so whatever is a cause, in any
way whatever, of the object, is a cause of the passion. Now a thing may be a cause of the object,
either by way of efficient cause, or by way of material disposition. Thus the object of pleasure
is good apprehended as suitable and conjoined: and its efficient cause is that which causes
the conjunction, or the suitableness, or goodness, or apprehension of that good thing; while
its cause by way of material disposition, is a habit or any sort of disposition by reason of
which this conjoined good becomes suitable or is apprehended as such.

Accordingly, as to the matter in question, the object of fear is something reckoned as an evil
to come, near at hand and difficult to avoid. Therefore that which can inflict such an evil,
is the efficient cause of the object of fear, and, consequently, of fear itself. While that
which renders a man so disposed that thing is such an evil to him, is a cause of fear and of
its object, by way of material disposition. And thus it is that love causes fear: since it
is through his loving a certain good, that whatever deprives a man of that good is an evil
to him, and that consequently he fears it as an evil.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (Q. 42, A. 1), fear, of itself and in the first place, regards
the evil from which it recoils as being contrary to some loved good: and thus fear, of itself,
is born of love. But, in the second place, it regards the cause from which that evil ensues:
so that sometimes, accidentally, fear gives rise to love; in so far as, for instance, through
fear of God's punishments, man keeps His commandments, and thus begins to hope, while hope
leads to love, as stated above (Q. 40, A. 7).

Reply Obj. 2: He, from whom evil is expected, is indeed hated at first; but afterwards, when
once we begin to hope for good from him, we begin to love him. But the good, the contrary evil
of which is feared, was loved from the beginning.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument is true of that which is the efficient cause of the evil to be
feared: whereas love causes fear by way of material disposition, as stated above.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 43, Art. 2]

Whether Defect Is the Cause of Fear?

Objection 1: It would seem that defect is not a cause of fear. Because those who are in power
are very much feared. But defect is contrary to power. Therefore defect is not a cause of fear.

Obj. 2: Further, the defect of those who are already being executed is extreme. But such like
do not fear as stated in Rhet. ii, 5. Therefore defect is not a cause of fear.

Obj. 3: Further, contests arise from strength not from defect. But "those who contend fear
those who contend with them" (Rhet. ii, 5). Therefore defect is not a cause of fear.

On the contrary, Contraries ensue from contrary causes. But "wealth, strength, a multitude
of friends, and power drive fear away" (Rhet. ii, 5). Therefore fear is caused by lack of these.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), fear may be set down to a twofold cause: one is by way
of a material disposition, on the part of him that fears; the other is by way of efficient
cause, on the part of the person feared. As to the first then, some defect is, of itself, the
cause of fear: for it is owing to some lack of power that one is unable easily to repulse a
threatening evil. And yet, in order to cause fear, this defect must be according to a measure.
For the defect which causes fear of a future evil, is less than the defect caused by evil present,
which is the object of sorrow. And still greater would be the defect, if perception of the
evil, or love of the good whose contrary is feared, were entirely absent.

But as to the second, power and strength are, of themselves, the cause of fear: because it
is owing to the fact that the cause apprehended as harmful is powerful, that its effect cannot
be repulsed. It may happen, however, in this respect, that some defect causes fear accidentally,
in so far as owing to some defect someone wishes to hurt another; for instance, by reason of
injustice, either because that other has already done him a harm, or because he fears to be
harmed by him.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument is true of the cause of fear, on the part of the efficient cause.

Reply Obj. 2: Those who are already being executed, are actually suffering from a present evil;
wherefore their defect exceeds the measure of fear.

Reply Obj. 3: Those who contend with one another are afraid, not on account of the power which
enables them to contend: but on account of the lack of power, owing to which they are not confident
of victory.

QUESTION 44

OF THE EFFECTS OF FEAR (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the effects of fear: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether fear causes contraction?

(2) Whether it makes men suitable for counsel?

(3) Whether it makes one tremble?

(4) Whether it hinders action?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 44, Art. 1]

Whether Fear Causes Contraction?

Objection 1: It would seem that fear does not cause contraction. For when contraction takes
place, the heat and vital spirits are withdrawn inwardly. But accumulation of heat and vital
spirits in the interior parts of the body, dilates the heart unto endeavors of daring, as may
be seen in those who are angered: while the contrary happens in those who are afraid. Therefore
fear does not cause contraction.

Obj. 2: Further, when, as a result of contraction, the vital spirits and heat are accumulated
in the interior parts, man cries out, as may be seen in those who are in pain. But those who
fear utter nothing: on the contrary they lose their speech. Therefore fear does not cause contraction.

Obj. 3: Further, shame is a kind of fear, as stated above (Q. 41, A. 4). But "those who are
ashamed blush," as Cicero (De Quaest. Tusc. iv, 8), and the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 9) observe.
But blushing is an indication, not of contraction, but of the reverse. Therefore contraction
is not an effect of fear.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 23) that "fear is a power according to systole,"
i.e. contraction.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 28, A. 5), in the passions of the soul, the formal element
is the movement of the appetitive power, while the bodily transmutation is the material element.
Both of these are mutually proportionate; and consequently the bodily transmutation assumes
a resemblance to and the very nature of the appetitive movement. Now, as to the appetitive
movement of the soul, fear implies a certain contraction: the reason of which is that fear
arises from the imagination of some threatening evil which is difficult to repel, as stated
above (Q. 41, A. 2). But that a thing be difficult to repel is due to lack of power, as stated
above (Q. 43, A. 2): and the weaker a power is, the fewer the things to which it extends. Wherefore
from the very imagination that causes fear there ensues a certain contraction in the appetite.
Thus we observe in one who is dying that nature withdraws inwardly, on account of the lack
of power: and again we see the inhabitants of a city, when seized with fear, leave the outskirts,
and, as far as possible, make for the inner quarters. It is in resemblance to this contraction,
which pertains to the appetite of the soul, that in fear a similar contraction of heat and
vital spirits towards the inner parts takes place in regard to the body.

Reply Obj. 1: As the Philosopher says (De Problem. xxvii, 3), although in those who fear, the
vital spirits recede from outer to the inner parts of the body, yet the movement of vital spirits
is not the same in those who are angry and those who are afraid. For in those who are angry,
by reason of the heat and subtlety of the vital spirits, which result from the craving for
vengeance, the inward movement has an upward direction: wherefore the vital spirits and heat
concentrate around the heart: the result being that an angry man is quick and brave in attacking.
But in those who are afraid, on account of the condensation caused by cold, the vital spirits
have a downward movement; the said cold being due to the imagined lack of power. Consequently
the heat and vital spirits abandon the heart instead of concentrating around it: the result
being that a man who is afraid is not quick to attack, but is more inclined to run away.

Reply Obj. 2: To everyone that is in pain, whether man or animal, it is natural to use all
possible means of repelling the harmful thing that causes pain but its presence: thus we observe
that animals, when in pain, attack with their jaws or with their horns. Now the greatest help
for all purposes, in animals, is heat and vital spirits: wherefore when they are in pain, their
nature stores up the heat and vital spirits within them, in order to make use thereof in repelling
the harmful object. Hence the Philosopher says (De Problem. xxvii, 9) when the vital spirits
and heat are concentrated together within, they require to find a vent in the voice: for which
reason those who are in pain can scarcely refrain from crying aloud. On the other hand, in
those who are afraid, the internal heat and vital spirits move from the heart downwards, as
stated above (ad 1): wherefore fear hinders speech which ensues from the emission of the vital
spirits in an upward direction through the mouth: the result being that fear makes its subject
speechless. For this reason, too, fear "makes its subject tremble," as the Philosopher says
(De Problem. xxvii, 1, 6, 7).

Reply Obj. 3: Mortal perils are contrary not only to the appetite of the soul, but also to
nature. Consequently in such like fear, there is contraction not only in the appetite, but
also in the corporeal nature: for when an animal is moved by the imagination of death, it experiences
a contraction of heat towards the inner parts of the body, as though it were threatened by
a natural death. Hence it is that "those who are in fear of death turn pale" (Ethic. iv, 9).
But the evil that shame fears, is contrary, not to nature, but only to the appetite of the
soul. Consequently there results a contraction in this appetite, but not in the corporeal nature;
in fact, the soul, as though contracted in itself, is free to set the vital spirits and heat
in movement, so that they spread to the outward parts of the body: the result being that those
who are ashamed blush.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 44, Art. 2]

Whether Fear Makes One Suitable for Counsel?

Objection 1: It would seem that fear does not make one suitable for counsel. For the same thing
cannot be conducive to counsel, and a hindrance thereto. But fear hinders counsel: because
every passion disturbs repose, which is requisite for the good use of reason. Therefore fear
does not make a man suitable for counsel.

Obj. 2: Further, counsel is an act of reason, in thinking and deliberating about the future.
But a certain fear "drives away all thought, and dislocates the mind," as Cicero observes (De
Quaest. Tusc. iv, 8). Therefore fear does not conduce to counsel, but hinders it.

Obj. 3: Further, just as we have recourse to counsel in order to avoid evil, so do we, in order
to attain good things. But whereas fear is of evil to be avoided, so is hope of good things
to be obtained. Therefore fear is not more conducive to counsel, than hope is.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "fear makes men of counsel."

I answer that, A man of counsel may be taken in two ways. First, from his being willing or
anxious to take counsel. And thus fear makes men of counsel. Because, as the Philosopher says
(Ethic. iii, 3), "we take counsel on great matters, because therein we distrust ourselves."
Now things which make us afraid, are not simply evil, but have a certain magnitude, both because
they seem difficult to repel, and because they are apprehended as near to us, as stated above
(Q. 42, A. 2). Wherefore men seek for counsel especially when they are afraid.

Secondly, a man of counsel means one who is apt for giving good counsel: and in this sense,
neither fear nor any passion makes men of counsel. Because when a man is affected by a passion,
things seem to him greater or smaller than they really are: thus to a lover, what he loves
seems better; to him that fears, what he fears seems more dreadful. Consequently owing to the
want of right judgment, every passion, considered in itself, hinders the faculty of giving
good counsel.

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: The stronger a passion is, the greater the hindrance is it to the man who is
swayed by it. Consequently, when fear is intense, man does indeed wish to take counsel, but
his thoughts are so disturbed, that he can find no counsel. If, however, the fear be slight,
so as to make a man wish to take counsel, without gravely disturbing the reason; it may even
make it easier for him to take good counsel, by reason of his ensuing carefulness.

Reply Obj. 3: Hope also makes man a good counsellor: because, as the Philosopher says (Rhet.
ii, 5), "no man takes counsel in matters he despairs of," nor about impossible things, as he
says in Ethic. iii, 3. But fear incites to counsel more than hope does. Because hope is of
good things, as being possible of attainment; whereas fear is of evil things, as being difficult
to repel, so that fear regards the aspect of difficulty more than hope does. And it is in matters
of difficulty, especially when we distrust ourselves, that we take counsel, as stated above.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 44, Art. 3]

Whether Fear Makes One Tremble?

Objection 1: It would seem that trembling is not an effect of fear. Because trembling is occasioned
by cold; thus we observe that a cold person trembles. Now fear does not seem to make one cold,
but rather to cause a parching heat: a sign whereof is that those who fear are thirsty, especially
if their fear be very great, as in the case of those who are being led to execution. Therefore
fear does not cause trembling.

Obj. 2: Further, faecal evacuation is occasioned by heat; hence laxative medicines are generally
warm. But these evacuations are often caused by fear. Therefore fear apparently causes heat;
and consequently does not cause trembling.

Obj. 3: Further, in fear, the heat is withdrawn from the outer to the inner parts of the body.
If, therefore, man trembles in his outward parts, through the heat being withdrawn thus; it
seems that fear should cause this trembling in all the external members. But such is not the
case. Therefore trembling of the body is not caused by fear.

On the contrary, Cicero says (De Quaest. Tusc. iv, 8) that "fear is followed by trembling,
pallor and chattering of the teeth."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), in fear there takes place a certain contraction from
the outward to the inner parts of the body, the result being that the outer parts become cold;
and for this reason trembling is occasioned in these parts, being caused by a lack of power
in controlling the members: which lack of power is due to the want of heat, which is the instrument
whereby the soul moves those members, as stated in De Anima ii, 4.

Reply Obj. 1: When the heat withdraws from the outer to the inner parts, the inward heat increases,
especially in the inferior or nutritive parts. Consequently the humid element being spent,
thirst ensues; sometimes indeed the result is a loosening of the bowels, and urinary or even
seminal evacuation. Or else such like evacuations are due to contraction of the abdomen and
testicles, as the Philosopher says (De Problem. xxii, 11).

This suffices for the Reply to the Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: In fear, heat abandons the heart, with a downward movement: hence in those who
are afraid the heart especially trembles, as also those members which are connected with the
breast where the heart resides. Hence those who fear tremble especially in their speech, on
account of the tracheal artery being near the heart. The lower lip, too, and the lower jaw
tremble, through their connection with the heart; which explains the chattering of the teeth.
For the same reason the arms and hands tremble. Or else because the aforesaid members are more
mobile. For which reason the knees tremble in those who are afraid, according to Isa. 35:3:
"Strengthen ye the feeble hands, and confirm the trembling [Vulg.: 'weak'] knees."

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 44, Art. 4]

Whether Fear Hinders Action?

Objection 1: It would seem that fear hinders action. For action is hindered chiefly by a disturbance
in the reason, which directs action. But fear disturbs reason, as stated above (A. 2). Therefore
fear hinders action.

Obj. 2: Further, those who fear while doing anything, are more apt to fail: thus a man who
walks on a plank placed aloft, easily falls through fear; whereas, if he were to walk on the
same plank down below, he would not fall, through not being afraid. Therefore fear hinders action.

Obj. 3: Further, laziness or sloth is a kind of fear. But laziness hinders action. Therefore
fear does too.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Phil. 2:12): "With fear and trembling work out your salvation":
and he would not say this if fear were a hindrance to a good work. Therefore fear does not
hinder a good action.

I answer that, Man's exterior actions are caused by the soul as first mover, but by the bodily
members as instruments. Now action may be hindered both by defect of the instrument, and by
defect of the principal mover. On the part of the bodily instruments, fear, considered in itself,
is always apt to hinder exterior action, on account of the outward members being deprived,
through fear, of their heat. But on the part of the soul, if the fear be moderate, without
much disturbance of the reason, it conduces to working well, in so far as it causes a certain
solicitude, and makes a man take counsel and work with greater attention. If, however, fear
increases so much as to disturb the reason, it hinders action even on the part of the soul.
But of such a fear the Apostle does not speak.

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: He that falls from a plank placed aloft, suffers a disturbance of his imagination,
through fear of the fall that is pictured to his imagination.

Reply Obj. 3: Everyone in fear shuns that which he fears: and therefore, since laziness is
a fear of work itself as being toilsome, it hinders work by withdrawing the will from it. But
fear of other things conduces to action, in so far as it inclines the will to do that whereby
a man escapes from what he fears.

QUESTION 45

OF DARING (In Four Articles)

We must now consider daring: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether daring is contrary to fear?

(2) How is daring related to hope?

(3) Of the cause of daring;

(4) Of its effect.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 45, Art. 1]

Whether Daring Is Contrary to Fear?

Objection 1: It would seem that daring is not contrary to fear. For Augustine says (QQ. 83,
qu. 31) that "daring is a vice." Now vice is contrary to virtue. Since, therefore, fear is
not a virtue but a passion, it seems that daring is not contrary to fear.

Obj. 2: Further, to one thing there is one contrary. But hope is contrary to fear. Therefore
daring is not contrary to fear.

Obj. 3: Further, every passion excludes its opposite. But fear excludes safety; for Augustine
says (Confess. ii, 6) that "fear takes forethought for safety." Therefore safety is contrary
to fear. Therefore daring is not contrary to fear.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "daring is contrary to fear."

I answer that, It is of the essence of contraries to be "farthest removed from one another,"
as stated in Metaph. x, 4. Now that which is farthest removed from fear, is daring: since fear
turns away from the future hurt, on account of its victory over him that fears it; whereas
daring turns on threatened danger because of its own victory over that same danger. Consequently
it is evident that daring is contrary to fear.

Reply Obj. 1: Anger, daring and all the names of the passions can be taken in two ways. First,
as denoting absolutely movements of the sensitive appetite in respect of some object, good
or bad: and thus they are names of passions. Secondly, as denoting besides this movement, a
straying from the order of reason: and thus they are names of vices. It is in this sense that
Augustine speaks of daring: but we are speaking of it in the first sense.

Reply Obj. 2: To one thing, in the same respect, there are not several contraries; but in different
respects nothing prevents one thing having several contraries. Accordingly it has been said
above (Q. 23, A. 2; Q. 40, A. 4) that the irascible passions admit of a twofold contrariety:
one, according to the opposition of good and evil, and thus fear is contrary to hope: the other,
according to the opposition of approach and withdrawal, and thus daring is contrary to fear,
and despair contrary to hope.

Reply Obj. 3: Safety does not denote something contrary to fear, but merely the exclusion of
fear: for he is said to be safe, who fears not. Wherefore safety is opposed to fear, as a privation:
while daring is opposed thereto as a contrary. And as contrariety implies privation, so daring
implies safety.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 45, Art. 2]

Whether Daring Ensues from Hope?

Objection 1: It would seem that daring does not ensue from hope. Because daring regards evil
and fearful things, as stated in Ethic. iii, 7. But hope regards good things, as stated above
(Q. 40, A. 1). Therefore they have different objects and are not in the same order. Therefore
daring does not ensue from hope.

Obj. 2: Further, just as daring is contrary to fear, so is despair contrary to hope. But fear
does not ensue from despair: in fact, despair excludes fear, as the Philosopher says (Rhet.
ii, 5). Therefore daring does not result from hope.

Obj. 3: Further, daring is intent on something good, viz. victory. But it belongs to hope to
tend to that which is good and difficult. Therefore daring is the same as hope; and consequently
does not result from it.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8) that "those are hopeful are full of daring."
Therefore it seems that daring ensues from hope.

I answer that, As we have often stated (Q. 22, A. 2; Q. 35, A. 1; Q. 41, A. 1), all these passions
belong to the appetitive power. Now every movement of the appetitive power is reducible to
one either of pursuit or of avoidance. Again, pursuit or avoidance is of something either by
reason of itself or by reason of something else. By reason of itself, good is the object of
pursuit, and evil, the object of avoidance: but by reason of something else, evil can be the
object of pursuit, through some good attaching to it; and good can be the object of avoidance,
through some evil attaching to it. Now that which is by reason of something else, follows that
which is by reason of itself. Consequently pursuit of evil follows pursuit of good; and avoidance
of good follows avoidance of evil. Now these four things belong to four passions, since pursuit
of good belongs to hope, avoidance of evil to fear, the pursuit of the fearful evil belongs
to daring, and the avoidance of good to despair. It follows, therefore, that daring results
from hope; since it is in the hope of overcoming the threatening object of fear, that one attacks
it boldly. But despair results from fear: since the reason why a man despairs is because he
fears the difficulty attaching to the good he should hope for.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument would hold, if good and evil were not co-ordinate objects. But
because evil has a certain relation to good, since it comes after good, as privation comes
after habit; consequently daring which pursues evil, comes after hope which pursues good.

Reply Obj. 2: Although good, absolutely speaking, is prior to evil, yet avoidance of evil precedes
avoidance of good; just as the pursuit of good precedes the pursuit of evil. Consequently just
as hope precedes daring, so fear precedes despair. And just as fear does not always lead to
despair, but only when it is intense; so hope does not always lead to daring, save only when
it is strong.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the object of daring is an evil to which, in the estimation of the daring
man, the good of victory is conjoined; yet daring regards the evil, and hope regards the conjoined
good. In like manner despair regards directly the good which it turns away from, while fear
regards the conjoined evil. Hence, properly speaking, daring is not a part of hope, but its
effect: just as despair is an effect, not a part, of fear. For this reason, too, daring cannot
be a principal passion.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 45, Art. 3]

Whether Some Defect Is a Cause of Daring?

Objection 1: It would seem that some defect is a cause of daring. For the Philosopher says
(De Problem. xxvii, 4) that "lovers of wine are strong and daring." But from wine ensues the
effect of drunkenness. Therefore daring is caused by a defect.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "those who have no experience of danger
are bold." But want of experience is a defect. Therefore daring is caused by a defect.

Obj. 3: Further, those who have suffered wrongs are wont to be daring; "like the beasts when
beaten," as stated in Ethic. iii, 5. But the suffering of wrongs pertains to defect. Therefore
daring is caused by a defect.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that the cause of daring "is the presence
in the imagination of the hope that the means of safety are nigh, and that the things to be
feared are either non-existent or far off." But anything pertaining to defect implies either
the removal of the means of safety, or the proximity of something to be feared. Therefore nothing
pertaining to defect is a cause of daring.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 1, 2) daring results from hope and is contrary to fear:
wherefore whatever is naturally apt to cause hope or banish fear, is a cause of daring. Since,
however, fear and hope, and also daring, being passions, consist in a movement of the appetite,
and in a certain bodily transmutation; a thing may be considered as the cause of daring in
two ways, whether by raising hope, or by banishing fear; in one way, in the part of the appetitive
movement; in another way, on the part of the bodily transmutation.

On the part of the appetitive movement which follows apprehension, hope that leads to daring
is roused by those things that make us reckon victory as possible. Such things regard either
our own power, as bodily strength, experience of dangers, abundance of wealth, and the like;
or they regard the powers of others, such as having a great number of friends or any other
means of help, especially if a man trust in the Divine assistance: wherefore "those are more
daring, with whom it is well in regard to godlike things," as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii,
5). Fear is banished, in this way, by the removal of threatening causes of fear; for instance,
by the fact that a man has no enemies, through having harmed nobody, so that he is not aware
of any imminent danger; since those especially appear to be threatened by danger, who have
harmed others.

On the part of the bodily transmutation, daring is caused through the incitement of hope and
the banishment of fear, by those things which raise the temperature about the heart. Wherefore
the Philosopher says (De Part. Animal. iii, 4) that "those whose heart is small in size, are
more daring; while animals whose heart is large are timid; because the natural heat is unable
to give the same degree of temperature to a large as to a small heart; just as a fire does
not heat a large house as well as it does a small house." He says also (De Problem. xxvii,
4), that "those whose lungs contain much blood, are more daring, through the heat in the heart
that results therefrom." He says also in the same passage that "lovers of wine are more daring,
on account of the heat of the wine": hence it has been said above (Q. 40, A. 6) that drunkenness
conduces to hope, since the heat in the heart banishes fear and raises hope, by reason of the
dilatation and enlargement of the heart.

Reply Obj. 1: Drunkenness causes daring, not through being a defect, but through dilating the
heart: and again through making a man think greatly of himself.

Reply Obj. 2: Those who have no experience of dangers are more daring, not on account of a
defect, but accidentally, i.e. in so far as through being inexperienced they do not know their
own failings, nor the dangers that threaten. Hence it is that the removal of the cause of fear
gives rise to daring.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) "those who have been wronged are courageous,
because they think that God comes to the assistance of those who suffer unjustly."

Hence it is evident that no defect causes daring except accidentally, i.e. in so far as some
excellence attaches thereto, real or imaginary, either in oneself or in another.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 45, Art. 4]

Whether the Brave Are More Eager at First Than in the Midst of Danger?

Objection 1: It would seem that the daring are not more eager at first than in the midst of
danger. Because trembling is caused by fear, which is contrary to daring, as stated above (A.
1; Q. 44, A. 3). But the daring sometimes tremble at first, as the Philosopher says (De Problem.
xxvii, 3). Therefore they are not more eager at first than in the midst of danger.

Obj. 2: Further, passion is intensified by an increase in its object: thus since a good is
lovable, what is better is yet more lovable. But the object of daring is something difficult.
Therefore the greater the difficulty, the greater the daring. But danger is more arduous and
difficult when present. It is then therefore that daring is greatest.

Obj. 3: Further, anger is provoked by the infliction of wounds. But anger causes daring; for
the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 5) that "anger makes man bold." Therefore when man is in the
midst of danger and when he is being beaten, then is he most daring.

On the contrary, It is said in Ethic. iii, 7 that "the daring are precipitate and full of eagerness
before the danger, yet in the midst of dangers they stand aloof."

I answer that, Daring, being a movement of the sensitive appetite, follows an apprehension
of the sensitive faculty. But the sensitive faculty cannot make comparisons, nor can it inquire
into circumstances; its judgment is instantaneous. Now it happens sometimes that it is impossible
for a man to take note in an instant of all the difficulties of a certain situation: hence
there arises the movement of daring to face the danger; so that when he comes to experience
the danger, he feels the difficulty to be greater than he expected, and so gives way.

On the other hand, reason discusses all the difficulties of a situation. Consequently men of
fortitude who face danger according to the judgment of reason, at first seem slack, because
they face the danger not from passion but with due deliberation. Yet when they are in the midst
of danger, they experience nothing unforeseen, but sometimes the difficulty turns out to be
less than they anticipated; wherefore they are more persevering. Moreover, it may be because
they face the danger on account of the good of virtue which is the abiding object of their
will, however great the danger may prove: whereas men of daring face the danger on account
of a mere thought giving rise to hope and banishing fear, as stated above (A. 3).

Reply Obj. 1: Trembling does occur in men of daring, on account of the heat being withdrawn
from the outer to the inner parts of the body, as occurs also in those who are afraid. But
in men of daring the heat withdraws to the heart; whereas in those who are afraid, it withdraws
to the inferior parts.

Reply Obj. 2: The object of love is good simply, wherefore if it be increased, love is increased
simply. But the object of daring is a compound of good and evil; and the movement of daring
towards evil presupposes the movement of hope towards good. If, therefore, so much difficulty
be added to the danger that it overcomes hope, the movement of daring does not ensue, but fails.
But if the movement of daring does ensue, the greater the danger, the greater is the daring
considered to be.

Reply Obj. 3: Hurt does not give rise to anger unless there be some kind of hope, as we shall
see later on (Q. 46, A. 1). Consequently if the danger be so great as to banish all hope of
victory, anger does not ensue. It is true, however, that if anger does ensue, there will be
greater daring.

QUESTION 46

OF ANGER, IN ITSELF (In Eight Articles)

We must now consider anger: and (1) anger in itself; (2) the cause of anger and its remedy;
(3) the effect of anger.

Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether anger is a special passion?

(2) Whether the object of anger is good or evil?

(3) Whether anger is in the concupiscible faculty?

(4) Whether anger is accompanied by an act of reason?

(5) Whether anger is more natural than desire?

(6) Whether anger is more grievous than hatred?

(7) Whether anger is only towards those with whom we have a relation of justice?

(8) Of the species of anger.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 1]

Whether Anger Is a Special Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is not a special passion. For the irascible power takes
its name from anger (ira). But there are several passions in this power, not only one. Therefore
anger is not one special passion.

Obj. 2: Further, to every special passion there is a contrary passion; as is evident by going
through them one by one. But no passion is contrary to anger, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 3).
Therefore anger is not a special passion.

Obj. 3: Further, one special passion does not include another. But anger includes several passions:
since it accompanies sorrow, pleasure, and hope, as the Philosopher states (Rhet. ii, 2). Therefore
anger is not a special passion.

On the contrary, Damascene (De Fide Orth. ii, 16) calls anger a special passion: and so does
Cicero (De Quaest. Tusc. iv, 7).

I answer that, A thing is said to be general in two ways. First, by predication; thus "animal"
is general in respect of all animals. Secondly, by causality; thus the sun is the general cause
of all things generated here below, according to Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv). Because just as
a genus contains potentially many differences, according to a likeness of matter; so an efficient
cause contains many effects according to its active power. Now it happens that an effect is
produced by the concurrence of various causes; and since every cause remains somewhat in its
effect, we may say that, in yet a third way, an effect which is due to the concurrence of several
causes, has a certain generality, inasmuch as several causes are, in a fashion, actually existing
therein.

Accordingly in the first way, anger is not a general passion but is condivided with the other
passions, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4). In like manner, neither is it in the second way: since
it is not a cause of the other passions. But in this way, love may be called a general passion,
as Augustine declares (De Civ. Dei xiv, 7, 9), because love is the primary root of all the
other passions, as stated above (Q. 27, A. 4). But, in a third way, anger may be called a general
passion, inasmuch as it is caused by a concurrence of several passions. Because the movement
of anger does not arise save on account of some pain inflicted, and unless there be desire
and hope of revenge: for, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2), "the angry man hopes to punish;
since he craves for revenge as being possible." Consequently if the person, who inflicted the
injury, excel very much, anger does not ensue, but only sorrow, as Avicenna states (De Anima
iv, 6).

Reply Obj. 1: The irascible power takes its name from "ira" (anger), not because every movement
of that power is one of anger; but because all its movements terminate in anger; and because,
of all these movements, anger is the most patent.

Reply Obj. 2: From the very fact that anger is caused by contrary passions, i.e. by hope, which
is of good, and by sorrow, which is of evil, it includes in itself contrariety: and consequently
it has no contrary outside itself. Thus also in mixed colors there is no contrariety, except
that of the simple colors from which they are made.

Reply Obj. 3: Anger includes several passions, not indeed as a genus includes several species;
but rather according to the inclusion of cause and effect.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 2]

Whether the Object of Anger Is Good or Evil?

Objection 1: It would seem that the object of anger is evil. For Gregory of Nyssa says [*Nemesius,
De Nat. Hom. xxi.] that anger is "the sword-bearer of desire," inasmuch, to wit, as it assails
whatever obstacle stands in the way of desire. But an obstacle has the character of evil. Therefore
anger regards evil as its object.

Obj. 2: Further, anger and hatred agree in their effect, since each seeks to inflict harm on
another. But hatred regards evil as its object, as stated above (Q. 29, A. 1). Therefore anger
does also.

Obj. 3: Further, anger arises from sorrow; wherefore the Philosopher says (Ethic. viii, 6)
that "anger acts with sorrow." But evil is the object of sorrow. Therefore it is also the object
of anger.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Confess. ii, 6) that "anger craves for revenge." But the desire
for revenge is a desire for something good: since revenge belongs to justice. Therefore the
object of anger is good.

Moreover, anger is always accompanied by hope, wherefore it causes pleasure, as the Philosopher
says (Rhet. ii, 2). But the object of hope and of pleasure is good. Therefore good is also
the object of anger.

I answer that, The movement of the appetitive power follows an act of the apprehensive power.
Now the apprehensive power apprehends a thing in two ways. First, by way of an incomplex object,
as when we understand what a man is; secondly, by way of a complex object, as when we understand
that whiteness is in a man. Consequently in each of these ways the appetitive power can tend
to both good and evil: by way of a simple and incomplex object, when the appetite simply follows
and adheres to good, or recoils from evil: and such movements are desire, hope, pleasure, sorrow,
and so forth: by way of a complex object, as when the appetite is concerned with some good
or evil being in, or being done to, another, either seeking this or recoiling from it. This
is evident in the case of love and hatred: for we love someone, in so far as we wish some good
to be in him; and we hate someone, in so far as we wish some evil to be in him. It is the same
with anger; for when a man is angry, he wishes to be avenged on someone. Hence the movement
of anger has a twofold tendency: viz. to vengeance itself, which it desires and hopes for as
being a good, wherefore it takes pleasure in it; and to the person on whom it seeks vengeance,
as to something contrary and hurtful, which bears the character of evil.

We must, however, observe a twofold difference in this respect, between anger on the one side,
and hatred and love on the other. The first difference is that anger always regards two objects:
whereas love and hatred sometimes regard but one object, as when a man is said to love wine
or something of the kind, or to hate it. The second difference is, that both the objects of
love are good: since the lover wishes good to someone, as to something agreeable to himself:
while both the objects of hatred bear the character of evil: for the man who hates, wishes
evil to someone, as to something disagreeable to him. Whereas anger regards one object under
the aspect of evil, viz. the noxious person, on whom it seeks to be avenged. Consequently it
is a passion somewhat made up of contrary passions.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 3]

Whether Anger Is in the Concupiscible Faculty?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is in the concupiscible faculty. For Cicero says (De
Quaest. Tusc. iv, 9) that anger is a kind of "desire." But desire is in the concupiscible faculty.
Therefore anger is too.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says in his Rule, that "anger grows into hatred": and Cicero says
(De Quaest. Tusc. iv, 9) that "hatred is inveterate anger." But hatred, like love, is a concupiscible
passion. Therefore anger is in the concupiscible faculty.

Obj. Both of these are in the concupiscible faculty. Therefore anger is a concupiscible passion.

On the contrary, The concupiscible is distinct from the irascible faculty. If, therefore, anger
were in the concupiscible power, the irascible would not take its name from it.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 23, A. 1), the passions of the irascible part differ from
the passions of the concupiscible faculty, in that the objects of the concupiscible passions
are good and evil absolutely considered, whereas the objects of the irascible passions are
good and evil in a certain elevation or arduousness. Now it has been stated (A. 2) that anger
regards two objects: viz. the vengeance that it seeks; and the person on whom it seeks vengeance;
and in respect of both, anger requires a certain arduousness: for the movement of anger does
not arise, unless there be some magnitude about both these objects; since "we make no ado about
things that are naught or very minute," as the Philosopher observes (Rhet. ii, 2). It is therefore
evident that anger is not in the concupiscible, but in the irascible faculty.

Reply Obj. 1: Cicero gives the name of desire to any kind of craving for a future good, without
discriminating between that which is arduous and that which is not. Accordingly he reckons
anger as a kind of desire, inasmuch as it is a desire of vengeance. In this sense, however,
desire is common to the irascible and concupiscible faculties.

Reply Obj. 2: Anger is said to grow into hatred, not as though the same passion which at first
was anger, afterwards becomes hatred by becoming inveterate; but by a process of causality.
For anger when it lasts a long time engenders hatred.

Reply Obj. 3: Anger is said to be composed of sorrow and desire, not as though they were its
parts, but because they are its causes: and it has been said above (Q. 25, A. 2) that the concupiscible
passions are the causes of the irascible passions.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 4]

Whether Anger Requires an Act of Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger does not require an act of reason. For, since anger is
a passion, it is in the sensitive appetite. But the sensitive appetite follows an apprehension,
not of reason, but of the sensitive faculty. Therefore anger does not require an act of reason.

Obj. 2: Further, dumb animals are devoid of reason: and yet they are seen to be angry. Therefore
anger does not require an act of reason.

Obj. 3: Further, drunkenness fetters the reason; whereas it is conducive to anger. Therefore
anger does not require an act of reason.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 6) that "anger listens to reason somewhat."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), anger is a desire for vengeance. Now vengeance implies
a comparison between the punishment to be inflicted and the hurt done; wherefore the Philosopher
says (Ethic. vii, 6) that "anger, as if it had drawn the inference that it ought to quarrel
with such a person, is therefore immediately exasperated." Now to compare and to draw an inference
is an act of reason. Therefore anger, in a fashion, requires an act of reason.

Reply Obj. 1: The movement of the appetitive power may follow an act of reason in two ways.
In the first way, it follows the reason in so far as the reason commands: and thus the will
follows reason, wherefore it is called the rational appetite. In another way, it follows reason
in so far as the reason denounces, and thus anger follows reason. For the Philosopher says
(De Problem. xxviii, 3) that "anger follows reason, not in obedience to reason's command, but
as a result of reason's denouncing the injury." Because the sensitive appetite is subject to
the reason, not immediately but through the will.

Reply Obj. 2: Dumb animals have a natural instinct imparted to them by the Divine Reason, in
virtue of which they are gifted with movements, both internal and external, like unto rational
movements, as stated above (Q. 40, A. 3).

Reply Obj. 3: As stated in Ethic. vii, 6, "anger listens somewhat to reason" in so far as reason
denounces the injury inflicted, "but listens not perfectly," because it does not observe the
rule of reason as to the measure of vengeance. Anger, therefore, requires an act of reason;
and yet proves a hindrance to reason. Wherefore the Philosopher says (De Problem. iii, 2, 27)
that whose who are very drunk, so as to be incapable of the use of reason, do not get angry:
but those who are slightly drunk, do get angry, through being still able, though hampered,
to form a judgment of reason.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 5]

Whether Anger Is More Natural Than Desire?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is not more natural than desire. Because it is proper
to man to be by nature a gentle animal. But "gentleness is contrary to anger," as the Philosopher
states (Rhet. ii, 3). Therefore anger is no more natural than desire, in fact it seems to be
altogether unnatural to man.

Obj. 2: Further, reason is contrasted with nature: since those things that act according to
reason, are not said to act according to nature. Now "anger requires an act of reason, but
desire does not," as stated in Ethic. vii, 6. Therefore desire is more natural than anger.

Obj. 3: Further, anger is a craving for vengeance: while desire is a craving for those things
especially which are pleasant to the touch, viz. for pleasures of the table and for sexual
pleasures. But these things are more natural to man than vengeance. Therefore desire is more
natural than anger.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 6) that "anger is more natural than desire."

I answer that, By "natural" we mean that which is caused by nature, as stated in Phys. ii,
1. Consequently the question as to whether a particular passion is more or less natural cannot
be decided without reference to the cause of that passion. Now the cause of a passion, as stated
above (Q. 36, A. 2), may be considered in two ways: first, on the part of the object; secondly,
on the part of the subject. If then we consider the cause of anger and of desire, on the part
of the object, thus desire, especially of pleasures of the table, and of sexual pleasures,
is more natural than anger; in so far as these pleasures are more natural to man than vengeance.

If, however, we consider the cause of anger on the part of the subject, thus anger, in a manner,
is more natural; and, in a manner, desire is more natural. Because the nature of an individual
man may be considered either as to the generic, or as to the specific nature, or again as to
the particular temperament of the individual. If then we consider the generic nature, i.e.
the nature of this man considered as an animal; thus desire is more natural than anger; because
it is from this very generic nature that man is inclined to desire those things which tend
to preserve in him the life both of the species and of the individual. If, however, we consider
the specific nature, i.e. the nature of this man as a rational being; then anger is more natural
to man than desire, in so far as anger follows reason more than desire does. Wherefore the
Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 5) that "revenge" which pertains to anger "is more natural to
man than meekness": for it is natural to everything to rise up against things contrary and
hurtful. And if we consider the nature of the individual, in respect of his particular temperament,
thus anger is more natural than desire; for the reason that anger is prone to ensue from the
natural tendency to anger, more than desire, or any other passion, is to ensue from a natural
tendency to desire, which tendencies result from a man's individual temperament. Because disposition
to anger is due to a bilious temperament; and of all the humors, the bile moves quickest; for
it is like fire. Consequently he that is temperamentally disposed to anger is sooner incensed
with anger, than he that is temperamentally disposed to desire, is inflamed with desire: and
for this reason the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 6) that a disposition to anger is more liable
to be transmitted from parent to child, than a disposition to desire.

Reply Obj. 1: We may consider in man both the natural temperament on the part of the body,
and the reason. On the part of the bodily temperament, a man, considered specifically, does
not naturally excel others either in anger or in any other passion, on account of the moderation
of his temperament. But other animals, for as much as their temperament recedes from this moderation
and approaches to an extreme disposition, are naturally disposed to some excess of passion,
such as the lion in daring, the hound in anger, the hare in fear, and so forth. On the part
of reason, however, it is natural to man, both to be angry and to be gentle: in so far as reason
somewhat causes anger, by denouncing the injury which causes anger; and somewhat appeases anger,
in so far as the angry man "does not listen perfectly to the command of reason," as stated
above (A. 4, ad 3).

Reply Obj. 2: Reason itself belongs to the nature of man: wherefore from the very fact that
anger requires an act of reason, it follows that it is, in a manner, natural to man.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument regards anger and desire on the part of the object.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 6]

Whether Anger Is More Grievous Than Hatred?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is more grievous than hatred. But hatred sometimes has
mercy. Therefore anger is more grievous than hatred.

Obj. 2: Further, it is worse to suffer evil and to grieve for it, than merely to suffer it.
But when a man hates, he is contented if the object of his hatred suffer evil: whereas the
angry man is not satisfied unless the object of his anger know it and be aggrieved thereby,
as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4). Therefore, anger is more grievous than hatred.

Obj. 3: Further, a thing seems to be so much the more firm according as more things concur
to set it up: thus a habit is all the more settled through being caused by several acts. But
anger is caused by the concurrence of several passions, as stated above (A. 1): whereas hatred
is not. Therefore anger is more settled and more grievous than hatred.

On the contrary, Augustine, in his Rule, compares hatred to "a beam," but anger to "a mote."

I answer that, The species and nature of a passion are taken from its object. Now the object
of anger is the same in substance as the object of hatred; since, just as the hater wishes
evil to him whom he hates, so does the angry man wish evil to him with whom he is angry. But
there is a difference of aspect: for the hater wishes evil to his enemy, as evil, whereas the
angry man wishes evil to him with whom he is angry, not as evil but in so far as it has an
aspect of good, that is, in so far as he reckons it as just, since it is a means of vengeance.
Wherefore also it has been said above (A. 2) that hatred implies application of evil to evil,
whereas anger denotes application of good to evil. Now it is evident that to seek evil under
the aspect of justice, is a lesser evil, than simply to seek evil to someone. Because to wish
evil to someone under the aspect of justice, may be according to the virtue of justice, if
it be in conformity with the order of reason; and anger fails only in this, that it does not
obey the precept of reason in taking vengeance. Consequently it is evident that hatred is far
worse and graver than anger.

Reply Obj. 1: In anger and hatred two points may be considered: namely, the thing desired,
and the intensity of the desire. As to the thing desired, anger has more mercy than hatred
has. For since hatred desires another's evil for evil's sake, it is satisfied with no particular
measure of evil: because those things that are desired for their own sake, are desired without
measure, as the Philosopher states (Polit. i, 3), instancing a miser with regard to riches.
Hence it is written (Ecclus. 12:16): "An enemy . . . if he find an opportunity, will not be
satisfied with blood." Anger, on the other hand, seeks evil only under the aspect of a just
means of vengeance. Consequently when the evil inflicted goes beyond the measure of justice
according to the estimate of the angry man, then he has mercy. Wherefore the Philosopher says
(Rhet. ii, 4) that "the angry man is appeased if many evils befall, whereas the hater is never
appeased."

As to the intensity of the desire, anger excludes mercy more than hatred does; because the
movement of anger is more impetuous, through the heating of the bile. Hence the passage quoted
continues: "Who can bear the violence of one provoked?"

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above, an angry man wishes evil to someone, in so far as this evil
is a means of just vengeance. Now vengeance is wrought by the infliction of a punishment: and
the nature of punishment consists in being contrary to the will, painful, and inflicted for
some fault. Consequently an angry man desires this, that the person whom he is hurting, may
feel it and be in pain, and know that this has befallen him on account of the harm he has done
the other. The hater, on the other hand, cares not for all this, since he desires another's
evil as such. It is not true, however, that an evil is worse through giving pain: because "injustice
and imprudence, although evil," yet, being voluntary, "do not grieve those in whom they are,"
as the Philosopher observes (Rhet. ii, 4).

Reply Obj. 3: That which proceeds from several causes, is more settled when these causes are
of one kind: but it may be that one cause prevails over many others. Now hatred ensues from
a more lasting cause than anger does. Because anger arises from an emotion of the soul due
to the wrong inflicted; whereas hatred ensues from a disposition in a man, by reason of which
he considers that which he hates to be contrary and hurtful to him. Consequently, as passion
is more transitory than disposition or habit, so anger is less lasting than hatred; although
hatred itself is a passion ensuing from this disposition. Hence the Philosopher says (Rhet.
ii, 4) that "hatred is more incurable than anger."

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 7]

Whether Anger Is Only Towards Those to Whom One Has an Obligation of Justice?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger is not only towards those to whom one has an obligation
of justice. For there is no justice between man and irrational beings. And yet sometimes one
is angry with irrational beings; thus, out of anger, a writer throws away his pen, or a rider
strikes his horse. Therefore anger is not only towards those to whom one has an obligation
of justice.

Obj. 2: Further, "there is no justice towards oneself . . . nor is there justice towards one's
own" (Ethic. v, 6). But sometimes a man is angry with himself; for instance, a penitent, on
account of his sin; hence it is written (Ps. 4:5): "Be ye angry and sin not." Therefore anger
is not only towards those with whom one has a relation of justice.

Obj. 3: Further, justice and injustice can be of one man towards an entire class, or a whole
community: for instance, when the state injures an individual. But anger is not towards a class
but only towards an individual, as the Philosopher states (Rhet. ii, 4). Therefore properly
speaking, anger is not towards those with whom one is in relation of justice or injustice.

The contrary, however, may be gathered from the Philosopher (Rhet. ii, 2, 3).

I answer that, As stated above (A. 6), anger desires evil as being a means of just vengeance.
Consequently, anger is towards those to whom we are just or unjust: since vengeance is an act
of justice, and wrong-doing is an act of injustice. Therefore both on the part of the cause,
viz. the harm done by another, and on the part of the vengeance sought by the angry man, it
is evident that anger concerns those to whom one is just or unjust.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (A. 4, ad 2), anger, though it follows an act of reason, can
nevertheless be in dumb animals that are devoid of reason, in so far as through their natural
instinct they are moved by their imagination to something like rational action. Since then
in man there is both reason and imagination, the movement of anger can be aroused in man in
two ways. First, when only his imagination denounces the injury: and, in this way, man is aroused
to a movement of anger even against irrational and inanimate beings, which movement is like
that which occurs in animals against anything that injures them. Secondly, by the reason denouncing
the injury: and thus, according to the Philosopher (Rhet. ii, 3), "it is impossible to be angry
with insensible things, or with the dead": both because they feel no pain, which is, above
all, what the angry man seeks in those with whom he is angry: and because there is no question
of vengeance on them, since they can do us no harm.

Reply Obj. 2: As the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 11), "metaphorically speaking there is a certain
justice and injustice between a man and himself," in so far as the reason rules the irascible
and concupiscible parts of the soul. And in this sense a man is said to be avenged on himself,
and consequently, to be angry with himself. But properly, and in accordance with the nature
of things, a man is never angry with himself.

Reply Obj. 3: The Philosopher (Rhet. ii, 4) assigns as one difference between hatred and anger,
that "hatred may be felt towards a class, as we hate the entire class of thieves; whereas anger
is directed only towards an individual." The reason is that hatred arises from our considering
a quality as disagreeing with our disposition; and this may refer to a thing in general or
in particular. Anger, on the other hand, ensues from someone having injured us by his action.
Now all actions are the deeds of individuals: and consequently anger is always pointed at an
individual. When the whole state hurts us, the whole state is reckoned as one individual [*Cf.
Q. 29, A. 6].

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 46, Art. 8]

Whether the Species of Anger Are Suitably Assigned?

Objection 1: It would seem that Damascene (De Fide Orth. ii, 16) unsuitably assigns three species
of anger--"wrath," "ill-will" and "rancor." For no genus derives its specific differences from
accidents. But these three are diversified in respect of an accident: because "the beginning
of the movement of anger is called wrath (cholos), if anger continue it is called ill-will
(menis); while rancor (kotos) is anger waiting for an opportunity of vengeance." Therefore
these are not different species of anger.

Obj. 2: Further, Cicero says (De Quaest. Tusc. iv, 9) that "excandescentia (irascibility) is
what the Greeks call thymosis, and is a kind of anger that arises and subsides intermittently";
while according to Damascene thymosis, is the same as kotos (rancor). Therefore kotos does
not bide its time for taking vengeance, but in course of time spends itself.

Obj. 3: Further, Gregory (Moral. xxi, 4) gives three degrees of anger, namely, "anger without
utterance, anger with utterance, and anger with perfection of speech," corresponding to the
three degrees mentioned by Our Lord (Matt. 5:22): "Whosoever is angry with his brother" (thus
implying "anger without utterance"), and then, "whosoever shall say to his brother, 'Raca'"
(implying anger with utterance yet without full expression), and lastly, "whosoever shall say
'Thou fool'" (where we have "perfection of speech"). Therefore Damascene's division is imperfect,
since it takes no account of utterance.

I answer that, The species of anger given by Damascene and Gregory of Nyssa are taken from
those things which give increase to anger. This happens in three ways. First from facility
of the movement itself, and he calls this kind of anger cholos (bile) because it quickly aroused.
Secondly, on the part of the grief that causes anger, and which dwells some time in the memory;
this belongs to menis (ill-will) which is derived from menein (to dwell). Thirdly, on the part
of that which the angry man seeks, viz. vengeance; and this pertains to kotos (rancor) which
never rests until it is avenged [*Eph. 4:31: "Let all bitterness and anger and indignation
. . . be put away from you."]. Hence the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 5) calls some angry persons
akrocholoi (choleric), because they are easily angered; some he calls pikroi (bitter), because
they retain their anger for a long time; and some he calls chalepoi (ill-tempered), because
they never rest until they have retaliated [*Cf. II-II, Q. 158, A. 5].

Reply Obj. 1: All those things which give anger some kind of perfection are not altogether
accidental to anger; and consequently nothing prevents them from causing a certain specific
difference thereof.

Reply Obj. 2: Irascibility, which Cicero mentions, seems to pertain to the first species of
anger, which consists in a certain quickness of temper, rather than to rancor (furor). And
there is no reason why the Greek thymosis, which is denoted by the Latin furor, should not
signify both quickness to anger, and firmness of purpose in being avenged.

Reply Obj. 3: These degrees are distinguished according to various effects of anger; and not
according to degrees of perfection in the very movement of anger.

QUESTION 47

OF THE CAUSE THAT PROVOKES ANGER, AND OF THE REMEDIES OF ANGER (In Four Articles) [*There is
no further mention of these remedies in the text, except in A. 4].

We must now consider the cause that provokes anger, and its remedies. Under this head there
are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the motive of anger is always something done against the one who is angry?

(2) Whether slight or contempt is the sole motive of anger?

(3) Of the cause of anger on the part of the angry person;

(4) Of the cause of anger on the part of the person with whom one is angry.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 47, Art. 1]

Whether the Motive of Anger Is Always Something Done Against the One Who Is Angry?

Objection 1: It would seem that the motive of anger is not always something done against the
one who is angry. Because man, by sinning, can do nothing against God; since it is written
(Job 35:6): "If thy iniquities be multiplied, what shalt thou do against Him?" And yet God
is spoken of as being angry with man on account of sin, according to Ps. 105:40: "The Lord
was exceedingly angry with His people." Therefore it is not always on account of something
done against him, that a man is angry.

Obj. 2: Further, anger is a desire for vengeance. But one may desire vengeance for things done
against others. Therefore we are not always angry on account of something done against us.

Obj. 3: Further, as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2) man is angry especially with those "who
despise what he takes a great interest in; thus men who study philosophy are angry with those
who despise philosophy," and so forth. But contempt of philosophy does not harm the philosopher.
Therefore it is not always a harm done to us that makes us angry.

Obj. 4: Further, he that holds his tongue when another insults him, provokes him to greater
anger, as Chrysostom observes (Hom. xxii, in Ep. ad Rom.). But by holding his tongue he does
the other no harm. Therefore a man is not always provoked to anger by something done against him.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 4) that "anger is always due to something
done to oneself: whereas hatred may arise without anything being done to us, for we hate a
man simply because we think him such."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 46, A. 6), anger is the desire to hurt another for the purpose
of just vengeance. Now unless some injury has been done, there is no question of vengeance:
nor does any injury provoke one to vengeance, but only that which is done to the person who
seeks vengeance: for just as everything naturally seeks its own good, so does it naturally
repel its own evil. But injury done by anyone does not affect a man unless in some way it be
something done against him. Consequently the motive of a man's anger is always something done
against him.

Reply Obj. 1: We speak of anger in God, not as of a passion of the soul but as of judgment
of justice, inasmuch as He wills to take vengeance on sin. Because the sinner, by sinning,
cannot do God any actual harm: but so far as he himself is concerned, he acts against God in
two ways. First, in so far as he despises God in His commandments. Secondly, in so far as he
harms himself or another; which injury redounds to God, inasmuch as the person injured is an
object of God's providence and protection.

Reply Obj. 2: If we are angry with those who harm others, and seek to be avenged on them, it
is because those who are injured belong in some way to us: either by some kinship or friendship,
or at least because of the nature we have in common.

Reply Obj. 3: When we take a very great interest in a thing, we look upon it as our own good;
so that if anyone despise it, it seems as though we ourselves were despised and injured.

Reply Obj. 4: Silence provokes the insulter to anger when he thinks it is due to contempt,
as though his anger were slighted: and a slight is an action.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 47, Art. 2]

Whether the Sole Motive of Anger Is Slight or Contempt?

Objection 1: It would seem that slight or contempt is not the sole motive of anger. For Damascene
says (De Fide Orth. ii, 16) that we are angry "when we suffer, or think that we are suffering,
an injury." But one may suffer an injury without being despised or slighted. Therefore a slight
is not the only motive of anger.

Obj. 2: Further, desire for honor and grief for a slight belong to the same subject. But dumb
animals do not desire honor. Therefore they are not grieved by being slighted. And yet "they
are roused to anger, when wounded," as the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 8). Therefore a slight
is not the sole motive of anger.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher (Rhet. ii, 2) gives many other causes of anger, for instance,
"being forgotten by others; that others should rejoice in our misfortunes; that they should
make known our evils; being hindered from doing as we like." Therefore being slighted is not
the only motive for being angry.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2) that anger is "a desire, with sorrow, for
vengeance, on account of a seeming slight done unbecomingly."

I answer that, All the causes of anger are reduced to slight. For
slight is of three kinds, as stated in Rhet. ii, 2, viz. "contempt,"
  "despiteful treatment," i.e. hindering one from doing one's will,
and "insolence": and all motives of anger are reduced to these three.
Two reasons may be assigned for this. First, because anger seeks
another's hurt as being a means of just vengeance: wherefore it seeks
vengeance in so far as it seems just. Now just vengeance is taken
only for that which is done unjustly; hence that which provokes anger
is always something considered in the light of an injustice.
Wherefore the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 3) that "men are not
angry,--if they think they have wronged some one and are suffering
justly on that account; because there is no anger at what is just."
Now injury is done to another in three ways: namely, through
ignorance, through passion, and through choice. Then, most of all, a
man does an injustice, when he does an injury from choice, on
purpose, or from deliberate malice, as stated in Ethic. v, 8.
Wherefore we are most of all angry with those who, in our opinion,
have hurt us on purpose. For if we think that some one has done us an
injury through ignorance or through passion, either we are not angry
with them at all, or very much less: since to do anything through
ignorance or through passion takes away from the notion of injury,
and to a certain extent calls for mercy and forgiveness. Those, on
the other hand, who do an injury on purpose, seem to sin from
contempt; wherefore we are angry with them most of all. Hence the
Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 3) that "we are either not angry at all,
or not very angry with those who have acted through anger, because
they do not seem to have acted slightingly."

The second reason is because a slight is opposed to a man's excellence: because "men think
little of things that are not worth much ado" (Rhet. ii, 2). Now we seek for some kind of excellence
from all our goods. Consequently whatever injury is inflicted on us, in so far as it is derogatory
to our excellence, seems to savor of a slight.

Reply Obj. 1: Any other cause, besides contempt, through which a man suffers an injury, takes
away from the notion of injury: contempt or slight alone adds to the motive of anger, and consequently
is of itself the cause of anger.

Reply Obj. 2: Although a dumb animal does not seek honor as such, yet it naturally seeks a
certain superiority, and is angry with anything derogatory thereto.

Reply Obj. 3: Each of those causes amounts to some kind of slight. Thus forgetfulness is a
clear sign of slight esteem, for the more we think of a thing the more is it fixed in our memory.
Again if a man does not hesitate by his remarks to give pain to another, this seems to show
that he thinks little of him: and those too who show signs of hilarity when another is in misfortune,
seem to care little about his good or evil. Again he that hinders another from carrying out
his will, without deriving thereby any profit to himself, seems not to care much for his friendship.
Consequently all those things, in so far as they are signs of contempt, provoke anger.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 47, Art. 3]

Whether a Man's Excellence Is the Cause of His Being Angry?

Objection 1: It would seem that a man's excellence is not the cause of his being more easily
angry. For the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2) that "some are angry especially when they are
grieved, for instance, the sick, the poor, and those who are disappointed." But these things
seem to pertain to defect. Therefore defect rather than excellence makes one prone to anger.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2) that "some are very much inclined to be
angry when they are despised for some failing or weakness of the existence of which there are
grounds for suspicion; but if they think they excel in those points, they do not trouble."
But a suspicion of this kind is due to some defect. Therefore defect rather than excellence
is a cause of a man being angry.

Obj. 3: Further, whatever savors of excellence makes a man agreeable and hopeful. But the Philosopher
says (Rhet. ii, 3) that "men are not angry when they play, make jokes, or take part in a feast,
nor when they are prosperous or successful, nor in moderate pleasures and well-founded hope."
Therefore excellence is not a cause of anger.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 9) that excellence makes men prone to anger.

I answer that, The cause of anger, in the man who is angry, may be taken in two ways. First
in respect of the motive of anger: and thus excellence is the cause of a man being easily angered.
Because the motive of anger is an unjust slight, as stated above (A. 2). Now it is evident
that the more excellent a man is, the more unjust is a slight offered him in the matter in
which he excels. Consequently those who excel in any matter, are most of all angry, if they
be slighted in that matter; for instance, a wealthy man in his riches, or an orator in his
eloquence, and so forth.

Secondly, the cause of anger, in the man who is angry, may be considered on the part of the
disposition produced in him by the motive aforesaid. Now it is evident that nothing moves a
man to anger except a hurt that grieves him: while whatever savors of defect is above all a
cause of grief; since men who suffer from some defect are more easily hurt. And this is why
men who are weak, or subject to some other defect, are more easily angered, since they are
more easily grieved.

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: If a man be despised in a matter in which he evidently excels greatly, he does
not consider himself the loser thereby, and therefore is not grieved: and in this respect he
is less angered. But in another respect, in so far as he is more undeservedly despised, he
has more reason for being angry: unless perhaps he thinks that he is envied or insulted not
through contempt but through ignorance, or some other like cause.

Reply Obj. 3: All these things hinder anger in so far as they hinder sorrow. But in another
respect they are naturally apt to provoke anger, because they make it more unseemly to insult
anyone.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 47, Art. 4]

Whether a Person's Defect Is a Reason for Being More Easily Angry with Him?

Objection 1: It would seem that a person's defect is not a reason for being more easily angry
with him. For the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 3) that "we are not angry with those who confess
and repent and humble themselves; on the contrary, we are gentle with them. Wherefore dogs
bite not those who sit down." But these things savor of littleness and defect. Therefore littleness
of a person is a reason for being less angry with him.

Obj. 2: Further, there is no greater defect than death. But anger ceases at the sight of death.
Therefore defect of a person does not provoke anger against him.

Obj. 3: Further, no one thinks little of a man through his being friendly towards him. But
we are more angry with friends, if they offend us or refuse to help us; hence it is written
(Ps. 54:13): "If my enemy had reviled me I would verily have borne with it." Therefore a person's
defect is not a reason for being more easily angry with him.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2) that "the rich man is angry with the poor
man, if the latter despise him; and in like manner the prince is angry with his subject."

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 2, 3) unmerited contempt more than anything else is a provocative
of anger. Consequently deficiency or littleness in the person with whom we are angry, tends
to increase our anger, in so far as it adds to the unmeritedness of being despised. For just
as the higher a man's position is, the more undeservedly he is despised; so the lower it is,
the less reason he has for despising. Thus a nobleman is angry if he be insulted by a peasant;
a wise man, if by a fool; a master, if by a servant.

If, however, the littleness or deficiency lessens the unmerited contempt, then it does not
increase but lessens anger. In this way those who repent of their ill-deeds, and confess that
they have done wrong, who humble themselves and ask pardon, mitigate anger, according to Prov.
15:1: "A mild answer breaketh wrath": because, to wit, they seem not to despise, but rather
to think much of those before whom they humble themselves.

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: There are two reasons why anger ceases at the sight of death. One is because
the dead are incapable of sorrow and sensation; and this is chiefly what the angry seek in
those with whom they are angered. Another reason is because the dead seem to have attained
to the limit of evils. Hence anger ceases in regard to all who are grievously hurt, in so far
as this hurt surpasses the measure of just retaliation.

Reply Obj. 3: To be despised by one's friends seems also a greater indignity. Consequently
if they despise us by hurting or by failing to help, we are angry with them for the same reason
for which we are angry with those who are beneath us.

QUESTION 48

OF THE EFFECTS OF ANGER (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the effects of anger: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether anger causes pleasure?

(2) Whether above all it causes heat in the heart?

(3) Whether above all it hinders the use of reason?

(4) Whether it causes taciturnity?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 48, Art. 1]

Whether Anger Causes Pleasure?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger does not cause pleasure. Because sorrow excludes pleasure.
But anger is never without sorrow, since, as stated in Ethic. vii, 6, "everyone that acts from
anger, acts with pain." Therefore anger does not cause pleasure.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 5) that "vengeance makes anger to cease,
because it substitutes pleasure for pain": whence we may gather that the angry man derives
pleasure from vengeance, and that vengeance quells his anger. Therefore on the advent of pleasure,
anger departs: and consequently anger is not an effect united with pleasure.

Obj. 3: Further, no effect hinders its cause, since it is conformed to its cause. But pleasure
hinders anger as stated in Rhet. ii, 3. Therefore pleasure is not an effect of anger.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 5) quotes the saying that anger is "Sweet to the
soul as honey to the taste" (Iliad, xviii, 109, trl. Pope).

I answer that, As the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 14), pleasures, chiefly sensible and bodily
pleasures, are remedies against sorrow: and therefore the greater the sorrow or anxiety, the
more sensible are we to the pleasure which heals it, as is evident in the case of thirst which
increases the pleasure of drink. Now it is clear from what has been said (Q. 47, AA. 1, 3),
that the movement of anger arises from a wrong done that causes sorrow, for which sorrow vengeance
is sought as a remedy. Consequently as soon as vengeance is present, pleasure ensues, and so
much the greater according as the sorrow was greater. Therefore if vengeance be really present,
perfect pleasure ensues, entirely excluding sorrow, so that the movement of anger ceases. But
before vengeance is really present, it becomes present to the angry man in two ways: in one
way, by hope; because none is angry except he hopes for vengeance, as stated above (Q. 46,
A. 1); in another way, by thinking of it continually, for to everyone that desires a thing
it is pleasant to dwell on the thought of what he desires; wherefore the imaginings of dreams
are pleasant. Accordingly an angry man takes pleasure in thinking much about vengeance. This
pleasure, however, is not perfect, so as to banish sorrow and consequently anger.

Reply Obj. 1: The angry man does not grieve and rejoice at the same thing; he grieves for the
wrong done, while he takes pleasure in the thought and hope of vengeance. Consequently sorrow
is to anger as its beginning; while pleasure is the effect or terminus of anger.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument holds in regard to pleasure caused by the real presence of vengeance,
which banishes anger altogether.

Reply Obj. 3: Pleasure that precedes hinders sorrow from ensuing, and consequently is a hindrance
to anger. But pleasure felt in taking vengeance follows from anger.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 48, Art. 2]

Whether Anger Above All Causes Fervor in the Heart?

Objection 1: It would seem that heat is not above all the effect of anger. For fervor, as stated
above (Q. 28, A. 5; Q. 37, A. 2), belongs to love. But love, as above stated, is the beginning
and cause of all the passions. Since then the cause is more powerful than its effect, it seems
that anger is not the chief cause of fervor.

Obj. 2: Further, those things which, of themselves, arouse fervor, increase as time goes on;
thus love grows stronger the longer it lasts. But in course of time anger grows weaker; for
the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 3) that "time puts an end to anger." Therefore fervor is not
the proper effect of anger.

Obj. 3: Further, fervor added to fervor produces greater fervor. But "the addition of a greater
anger banishes already existing anger," as the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 3). Therefore anger
does not cause fervor.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 16) that "anger is fervor of the blood around
the heart, resulting from an exhalation of the bile."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 44, A. 1), the bodily transmutation that occurs in the passions
of the soul is proportionate to the movement of the appetite. Now it is evident that every
appetite, even the natural appetite, tends with greater force to repel that which is contrary
to it, if it be present: hence we see that hot water freezes harder, as though the cold acted
with greater force on the hot object. Since then the appetitive movement of anger is caused
by some injury inflicted, as by a contrary that is present; it follows that the appetite tends
with great force to repel the injury by the desire of vengeance; and hence ensues great vehemence
and impetuosity in the movement of anger. And because the movement of anger is not one of recoil,
which corresponds to the action of cold, but one of prosecution, which corresponds to the action
of heat, the result is that the movement of anger produces fervor of the blood and vital spirits
around the heart, which is the instrument of the soul's passions. And hence it is that, on
account of the heart being so disturbed by anger, those chiefly who are angry betray signs
thereof in their outer members. For, as Gregory says (Moral. v, 30) "the heart that is inflamed
with the stings of its own anger beats quick, the body trembles, the tongue stammers, the countenance
takes fire, the eyes grow fierce, they that are well known are not recognized. With the mouth
indeed he shapes a sound, but the understanding knows not what it says."

Reply Obj. 1: "Love itself is not felt so keenly as in the absence of the beloved," as Augustine
observes (De Trin. x, 12). Consequently when a man suffers from a hurt done to the excellence
that he loves, he feels his love thereof the more: the result being that his heart is moved
with greater heat to remove the hindrance to the object of his love; so that anger increases
the fervor of love and makes it to be felt more.

Nevertheless, the fervor arising from heat differs according as it is to be referred to love
or to anger. Because the fervor of love has a certain sweetness and gentleness; for it tends
to the good that one loves: whence it is likened to the warmth of the air and of the blood.
For this reason sanguine temperaments are more inclined to love; and hence the saying that
"love springs from the liver," because of the blood being formed there. On the other hand,
the fervor of anger has a certain bitterness with a tendency to destroy, for it seeks to be
avenged on the contrary evil: whence it is likened to the heat of fire and of the bile, and
for this reason Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 16) that it "results from an exhalation of
the bile whence it takes its name chole."

Reply Obj. 2: Time, of necessity, weakens all those things, the causes of which are impaired
by time. Now it is evident that memory is weakened by time; for things which happened long
ago easily slip from our memory. But anger is caused by the memory of a wrong done. Consequently
the cause of anger is impaired little by little as time goes on, until at length it vanishes
altogether. Moreover a wrong seems greater when it is first felt; and our estimate thereof
is gradually lessened the further the sense of present wrong recedes into the past. The same
applies to love, so long as the cause of love is in the memory alone; wherefore the Philosopher
says (Ethic. viii, 5) that "if a friend's absence lasts long, it seems to make men forget their
friendship." But in the presence of a friend, the cause of friendship is continually being
multiplied by time: wherefore the friendship increases: and the same would apply to anger,
were its cause continually multiplied.

Nevertheless the very fact that anger soon spends itself proves the strength of its fervor:
for as a great fire is soon spent having burnt up all the fuel; so too anger, by reason of
its vehemence, soon dies away.

Reply Obj. 3: Every power that is divided in itself is weakened. Consequently if a man being
already angry with one, becomes angry with another, by this very fact his anger with the former
is weakened. Especially is this so if his anger in the second case be greater: because the
wrong done which aroused his former anger, will, in comparison with the second wrong, which
is reckoned greater, seem to be of little or no account.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 48, Art. 3]

Whether Anger Above All Hinders the Use of Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger does not hinder the use of reason. Because that which
presupposes an act of reason, does not seem to hinder the use of reason. But "anger listens
to reason," as stated in Ethic. vii, 6. Therefore anger does not hinder reason.

Obj. 2: Further, the more the reason is hindered, the less does a man show his thoughts. But
the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 6) that "an angry man is not cunning but is open." Therefore
anger does not seem to hinder the use of reason, as desire does; for desire is cunning, as
he also states (Ethic. vii, 6.).

Obj. 3: Further, the judgment of reason becomes more evident by juxtaposition of the contrary:
because contraries stand out more clearly when placed beside one another. But this also increases
anger: for the Philosopher says (Rhet. ii, 2) that "men are more angry if they receive unwonted
treatment; for instance, honorable men, if they be dishonored": and so forth. Therefore the
same cause increases anger, and facilitates the judgment of reason. Therefore anger does not
hinder the judgment of reason.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. v, 30) that anger "withdraws the light of understanding,
while by agitating it troubles the mind."

I answer that, Although the mind or reason makes no use of a bodily organ in its proper act,
yet, since it needs certain sensitive powers for the execution of its act, the acts of which
powers are hindered when the body is disturbed, it follows of necessity that any disturbance
in the body hinders even the judgment of reason; as is clear in the case of drunkenness or
sleep. Now it has been stated (A. 2) that anger, above all, causes a bodily disturbance in
the region of the heart, so much as to effect even the outward members. Consequently, of all
the passions, anger is the most manifest obstacle to the judgment of reason, according to Ps.
30:10: "My eye is troubled with wrath."

Reply Obj. 1: The beginning of anger is in the reason, as regards the appetitive movement,
which is the formal element of anger. But the passion of anger forestalls the perfect judgment
of reason, as though it listened but imperfectly to reason, on account of the commotion of
the heat urging to instant action, which commotion is the material element of anger. In this
respect it hinders the judgment of reason.

Reply Obj. 2: An angry man is said to be open, not because it is clear to him what he ought
to do, but because he acts openly, without thought of hiding himself. This is due partly to
the reason being hindered, so as not to discern what should be hidden and what done openly,
nor to devise the means of hiding; and partly to the dilatation of the heart which pertains
to magnanimity which is an effect of anger: wherefore the Philosopher says of the magnanimous
man (Ethic. iv, 3) that "he is open in his hatreds and his friendships . . . and speaks and
acts openly." Desire, on the other hand, is said to lie low and to be cunning, because, in
many cases, the pleasurable things that are desired, savor of shame and voluptuousness, wherein
man wishes not to be seen. But in those things that savor of manliness and excellence, such
as matters of vengeance, man seeks to be in the open.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (ad 1), the movement of anger begins in the reason, wherefore
the juxtaposition of one contrary with another facilitates the judgment of reason, on the same
grounds as it increases anger. For when a man who is possessed of honor or wealth, suffers
a loss therein, the loss seems all the greater, both on account of the contrast, and because
it was unforeseen. Consequently it causes greater grief: just as a great good, through being
received unexpectedly, causes greater delight. And in proportion to the increase of the grief
that precedes, anger is increased also.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 48, Art. 4]

Whether Anger Above All Causes Taciturnity?

Objection 1: It would seem that anger does not cause taciturnity. Because taciturnity is opposed
to speech. But increase in anger conduces to speech; as is evident from the degrees of anger
laid down by Our Lord (Matt. 5:22): where He says: "Whosoever is angry with his brother"; and
" . . . whosoever shall say to his brother, 'Raca'"; and " . . . whosoever shall say to his
brother, 'Thou fool.'" Therefore anger does not cause taciturnity.

Obj. 2: Further, through failing to obey reason, man sometimes breaks out into unbecoming words:
hence it is written (Prov. 25:28): "As a city that lieth open and is not compassed with walls,
so is a man that cannot refrain his own spirit in speaking." But anger, above all, hinders
the judgment of reason, as stated above (A. 3). Consequently above all it makes one break out
into unbecoming words. Therefore it does not cause taciturnity.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (Matt. 12:34): "Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaketh." But anger, above all, causes a disturbance in the heart, as stated above (A. 2).
Therefore above all it conduces to speech. Therefore it does not cause taciturnity.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. v, 30) that "when anger does not vent itself outwardly
by the lips, inwardly it burns the more fiercely."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3; Q. 46, A. 4), anger both follows an act of reason, and
hinders the reason: and in both respects it may cause taciturnity. On the part of the reason,
when the judgment of reason prevails so far, that although it does not curb the appetite in
its inordinate desire for vengeance, yet it curbs the tongue from unbridled speech. Wherefore
Gregory says (Moral. v, 30): "Sometimes when the mind is disturbed, anger, as if in judgment,
commands silence." Consequently anger may cause such a disturbance, that the tongue is altogether
deprived of speech; and taciturnity is the result.

Reply Obj. 1: Anger sometimes goes so far as to hinder the reason from curbing the tongue:
but sometimes it goes yet farther, so as to paralyze the tongue and other outward members.

And this suffices for the Reply to the Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: The disturbance of the heart may sometimes superabound to the extend that the
movements of the outward members are hindered by the inordinate movement of the heart. Thence
ensue taciturnity and immobility of the outward members; and sometimes even death. If, however,
the disturbance be not so great, then "out of the abundance of the heart" thus disturbed, the
mouth proceeds to speak.

TREATISE ON HABITS (QQ. 49-54)

QUESTION 49

OF HABITS IN GENERAL, AS TO THEIR SUBSTANCE (In Four Articles)

After treating of human acts and passions, we now pass on to the consideration of the principles
of human acts, and firstly of intrinsic principles, secondly of extrinsic principles. The intrinsic
principle is power and habit; but as we have treated of powers in the First Part (Q. 77, seqq.),
it remains for us to consider them in general: in the second place we shall consider virtues
and vices and other like habits, which are the principles of human acts.

Concerning habits in general there are four points to consider: First, the substance of habits;
second, their subject; third, the cause of their generation, increase, and corruption; fourth,
how they are distinguished from one another.

Under the first head, there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether habit is a quality?

(2) Whether it is a distinct species of quality?

(3) Whether habit implies an order to an act?

(4) Of the necessity of habit.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 49, Art. 1]

Whether Habit Is a Quality?

Objection 1: It would seem that habit is not a quality. For Augustine says (QQ. lxxxiii, qu.
73): "this word 'habit' is derived from the verb 'to have.'" But "to have" belongs not only
to quality, but also to the other categories: for we speak of ourselves as "having" quantity
and money and other like things. Therefore habit is not a quality.

Obj. 2: Further, habit is reckoned as one of the predicaments; as may be clearly seen in the
Book on the Predicaments (Categor. vi). But one predicament is not contained under another.
Therefore habit is not a quality.

Obj. 3: Further, "every habit is a disposition," as is stated in the Book of the Predicaments
(Categor. vi). Now disposition is "the order of that which has parts," as stated in Metaph.
v, text. 24. But this belongs to the predicament Position. Therefore habit is not a quality.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says in the Book of Predicaments (Categor. vi) that "habit
is a quality which is difficult to change."

I answer that, This word habitus (habit) is derived from habere (to have). Now habit is taken
from this word in two ways; in one way, inasmuch as man, or any other thing, is said to "have"
something; in another way, inasmuch as a particular thing has a relation (se habet) either
in regard to itself, or in regard to something else.

Concerning the first, we must observe that "to have," as said in regard to anything that is
"had," is common to the various predicaments. And so the Philosopher puts "to have" among the
"post-predicaments," so called because they result from the various predicaments; as, for instance,
opposition, priority, posterity, and such like. Now among things which are had, there seems
to be this distinction, that there are some in which there is no medium between the "haver"
and that which is had: as, for instance, there is no medium between the subject and quality
or quantity. Then there are some in which there is a medium, but only a relation: as, for instance,
a man is said to have a companion or a friend. And, further, there are some in which there
is a medium, not indeed an action or passion, but something after the manner of action or passion:
thus, for instance, something adorns or covers, and something else is adorned or covered: wherefore
the Philosopher says (Metaph. v, text. 25) that "a habit is said to be, as it were, an action
or a passion of the haver and that which is had"; as is the case in those things which we have
about ourselves. And therefore these constitute a special genus of things, which are comprised
under the predicament of "habit": of which the Philosopher says (Metaph. v, text. 25) that
"there is a habit between clothing and the man who is clothed."

But if "to have" be taken according as a thing has a relation in regard to itself or to something
else; in that case habit is a quality; since this mode of having is in respect of some quality:
and of this the Philosopher says (Metaph. v, text. 25) that "habit is a disposition whereby
that which is disposed is disposed well or ill, and this, either in regard to itself or in
regard to another: thus health is a habit." And in this sense we speak of habit now. Wherefore
we must say that habit is a quality.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument takes "to have" in the general sense: for thus it is common to
many predicaments, as we have said.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument takes habit in the sense in which we understand it to be a medium
between the haver, and that which is had: and in this sense it is a predicament, as we have said.

Reply Obj. 3: Disposition does always, indeed, imply an order of that which has parts: but
this happens in three ways, as the Philosopher goes on at once to says (Metaph. v, text. 25):
namely, "either as to place, or as to power, or as to species." "In saying this," as Simplicius
observes in his Commentary on the Predicaments, "he includes all dispositions: bodily dispositions,
when he says 'as  to place,'" and this belongs to the predicament "Position," which is the
order of parts in a place: "when he says 'as to power,' he includes all those dispositions
which are in course of formation and not yet arrived at perfect usefulness," such as inchoate
science and virtue: "and when he says, 'as to species,' he includes perfect dispositions, which
are called habits," such as perfected science and virtue.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 49, Art. 2]

Whether Habit Is a Distinct Species of Quality?

Objection 1: It would seem that habit is not a distinct species of quality. Because, as we
have said (A. 1), habit, in so far as it is a quality, is "a disposition whereby that which
is disposed is disposed well or ill." But this happens in regard to any quality: for a thing
happens to be well or ill disposed in regard also to shape, and in like manner, in regard to
heat and cold, and in regard to all such things. Therefore habit is not a distinct species
of quality.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says in the Book of the Predicaments (Categor. vi), that heat
and cold are dispositions or habits, just as sickness and health. Therefore habit or disposition
is not distinct from the other species of quality.

Obj. 3: Further, "difficult to change" is not a difference belonging to the predicament of
quality, but rather to movement or passion. Now, no genus should be contracted to a species
by a difference of another genus; but "differences should be proper to a genus," as the Philosopher
says in Metaph. vii, text. 42. Therefore, since habit is "a quality difficult to change," it
seems not to be a distinct species of quality.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says in the Book of the Predicaments (Categor. vi) that "one
species of quality is habit and disposition."

I answer that, The Philosopher in the Book of Predicaments (Categor. vi) reckons disposition
and habit as the first species of quality. Now Simplicius, in his Commentary on the Predicaments,
explains the difference of these species as follows. He says "that some qualities are natural,
and are in their subject in virtue of its nature, and are always there: but some are adventitious,
being caused from without, and these can be lost. Now the latter," i.e. those which are adventitious,
"are habits and dispositions, differing in the point of being easily or difficultly lost. As
to natural qualities, some regard a thing in the point of its being in a state of potentiality;
and thus we have the second species of quality: while others regard a thing which is in act;
and this either deeply rooted therein or only on its surface. If deeply rooted, we have the
third species of quality: if on the surface, we have the fourth species of quality, as shape,
and form which is the shape of an animated being." But this distinction of the species of quality
seems unsuitable. For there are many shapes, and passion-like qualities, which are not natural
but adventitious: and there are also many dispositions which are not adventitious but natural,
as health, beauty, and the like. Moreover, it does not suit the order of the species, since
that which is the more natural is always first.

Therefore we must explain otherwise the distinction of dispositions and habits from other qualities.
For quality, properly speaking, implies a certain mode of substance. Now mode, as Augustine
says (Gen. ad lit. iv, 3), "is that which a measure determines": wherefore it implies a certain
determination according to a certain measure. Therefore, just as that in accordance with which
the material potentiality (potentia materiae) is determined to its substantial being, is called
quality, which is a difference affecting the substance, so that, in accordance with the potentiality
of the subject is determined to its accidental being, is called an accidental quality, which
is also a kind of difference, as is clear from the Philosopher (Metaph. v, text. 19).

Now the mode o[r] determination of the subject to accidental being may be taken in regard to
the very nature of the subject, or in regard to action, and passion resulting from its natural
principles, which are matter and form; or again in regard to quantity. If we take the mode
or determination of the subject in regard to quantity, we shall then have the fourth species
of quality. And because quantity, considered in itself, is devoid of movement, and does not
imply the notion of good or evil, so it does not concern the fourth species of quality whether
a thing be well or ill disposed, nor quickly or slowly transitory.

But the mode o[r] determination of the subject, in regard to action or passion, is considered
in the second and third species of quality. And therefore in both, we take into account whether
a thing be done with ease or difficulty; whether it be transitory or lasting. But in them,
we do not consider anything pertaining to the notion of good or evil: because movements and
passions have not the aspect of an end, whereas good and evil are said in respect of an end.

On the other hand, the mode or determination of the subject, in regard to the nature of the
thing, belongs to the first species of quality, which is habit and disposition: for the Philosopher
says (Phys. vii, text. 17), when speaking of habits of the soul and of the body, that they
are "dispositions of the perfect to the best; and by perfect I mean that which is disposed
in accordance with its nature." And since the form itself and the nature of a thing is the
end and the cause why a thing is made (Phys. ii, text. 25), therefore in the first species
we consider both evil and good, and also changeableness, whether easy or difficult; inasmuch
as a certain nature is the end of generation and movement. And so the Philosopher (Metaph.
v, text. 25) defines habit, a "disposition whereby someone is disposed, well or ill"; and in
Ethic. ii, 4, he says that by "habits we are directed well or ill in reference to the passions."
For when the mode is suitable to the thing's nature, it has the aspect of good: and when it
is unsuitable, it has the aspect of evil. And since nature is the first object of consideration
in anything, for this reason habit is reckoned as the first species of quality.

Reply Obj. 1: Disposition implies a certain order, as stated above (A. 1, ad 3). Wherefore
a man is not said to be disposed by some quality except in relation to something else. And
if we add "well or ill," which belongs to the essential notion of habit, we must consider the
quality's relation to the nature, which is the end. So in regard to shape, or heat, or cold,
a man is not said to be well or ill disposed, except by reason of a relation to the nature
of a thing, with regard to its suitability or unsuitability. Consequently even shapes and passion-like
qualities, in so far as they are considered to be suitable or unsuitable to the nature of a
thing, belong to habits or dispositions: for shape and color, according to their suitability
to the nature of thing, concern beauty; while heat and cold, according to their suitability
to the nature of a thing, concern health. And in this way heat and cold are put, by the Philosopher,
in the first species of quality.

Wherefore it is clear how to answer the second objection: though some give another solution,
as Simplicius says in his Commentary on the Predicaments.

Reply Obj. 3: This difference, "difficult to change," does not distinguish habit from the other
species of quality, but from disposition. Now disposition may be taken in two ways; in one
way, as the genus of habit, for disposition is included in the definition of habit (Metaph.
v, text. 25): in another way, according as it is divided against habit. Again, disposition,
properly so called, can be divided against habit in two ways: first, as perfect and imperfect
within the same species; and thus we call it a disposition, retaining the name of the genus,
when it is had imperfectly, so as to be easily lost: whereas we call it a habit, when it is
had perfectly, so as not to be lost easily. And thus a disposition becomes a habit, just as
a boy becomes a man. Secondly, they may be distinguished as diverse species of the one subaltern
genus: so that we call dispositions, those qualities of the first species, which by reason
of their very nature are easily lost, because they have changeable causes; e.g. sickness and
health: whereas we call habits those qualities which, by reason of their very nature, are not
easily changed, in that they have unchangeable causes, e.g. sciences and virtues. And in this
sense, disposition does not become habit. The latter explanation seems more in keeping with
the intention of Aristotle: for in order to confirm this distinction he adduces the common
mode of speaking, according to which, when a quality is, by reason of its nature, easily changeable,
and, through some accident, becomes difficultly changeable, then it is called a habit: while
the contrary happens in regard to qualities, by reason of their nature, difficultly changeable:
for supposing a man to have a science imperfectly, so as to be liable to lose it easily, we
say that he is disposed to that science, rather than that he has the science. From this it
is clear that the word "habit" implies a certain lastingness: while the word "disposition"
does not.

Nor does it matter that thus to be easy and difficult to change are specific differences (of
a quality), although they belong to passion and movement, and not the genus of quality. For
these differences, though apparently accidental to quality, nevertheless designate differences
which are proper and essential to quality. In the same way, in the genus of substance we often
take accidental instead of substantial differences, in so far as by the former, essential principles
are designated.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 49, Art. 3]

Whether Habit Implies Order to an Act?

Objection 1: It would seem that habit does not imply order to an act. For everything acts according
as it is in act. But the Philosopher says (De Anima iii, text 8), that "when one is become
knowing by habit, one is still in a state of potentiality, but otherwise than before learning."
Therefore habit does not imply the relation of a principle to an act.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is put in the definition of a thing, belongs to it essentially.
But to be a principle of action, is put in the definition of power, as we read in Metaph. v,
text. 17. Therefore to be the principle of an act belongs to power essentially. Now that which
is essential is first in every genus. If therefore, habit also is a principle of act, it follows
that it is posterior to power. And so habit and disposition will not be the first species of
quality.

Obj. 3: Further, health is sometimes a habit, and so are leanness and beauty. But these do
not indicate relation to an act. Therefore it is not essential to habit to be a principle of act.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Bono Conjug. xxi) that "habit is that whereby something
is done when necessary." And the Commentator says (De Anima iii) that "habit is that whereby
we act when we will."

I answer that, To have relation to an act may belong to habit, both in regard to the nature
of habit, and in regard to the subject in which the habit is. In regard to the nature of habit,
it belongs to every habit to have relation to an act. For it is essential to habit to imply
some relation to a thing's nature, in so far as it is suitable or unsuitable thereto. But a
thing's nature, which is the end of generation, is further ordained to another end, which is
either an operation, or the product of an operation, to which one attains by means of operation.
Wherefore habit implies relation not only to the very nature of a thing, but also, consequently,
to operation, inasmuch as this is the end of nature, or conducive to the end. Whence also it
is stated (Metaph. v, text. 25) in the definition of habit, that it is a disposition whereby
that which is disposed, is well or ill disposed either in regard to itself, that is to its
nature, or in regard to something else, that is to the end.

But there are some habits, which even on the part of the subject in which they are, imply primarily
and principally relation to an act. For, as we have said, habit primarily and of itself implies
a relation to the thing's nature. If therefore the nature of a thing, in which the habit is,
consists in this very relation to an act, it follows that the habit principally implies relation
to an act. Now it is clear that the nature and the notion of power is that it should be a principle
of act. Wherefore every habit is subjected in a power, implies principally relation to an act.

Reply Obj. 1: Habit is an act, in so far as it is a quality: and in this respect it can be
a principle of operation. It is, however, in a state of potentiality in respect to operation.
Wherefore habit is called first act, and operation, second act; as it is explained in De Anima
ii, text. 5.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not the essence of habit to be related to power, but to be related to nature.
And as nature precedes action, to which power is related, therefore habit is put before power
as a species of quality.

Reply Obj. 3: Health is said to be a habit, or a habitual disposition, in relation to nature,
as stated above. But in so far as nature is a principle of act, it consequently implies a relation
to act. Wherefore the Philosopher says (De Hist. Animal. x, 1), that man, or one of his members,
is called healthy, "when he can perform the operation of a healthy man." And the same applies
to other habits.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 49, Art. 4]

Whether Habits Are Necessary?

Objection 1: It would seem that habits are not necessary. For by habits we are well or ill
disposed in respect of something, as stated above. But a thing is well or ill disposed by its
form: for in respect of its form a thing is good, even as it is a being. Therefore there is
no necessity for habits.

Obj. 2: Further, habit implies relation to an act. But power implies sufficiently a principle
of act: for even the natural powers, without any habits, are principles of acts. Therefore
there was no necessity for habits.

Obj. 3: Further, as power is related to good and evil, so also is habit: and as power does
not always act, so neither does habit. Given, therefore, the powers, habits become superfluous.

On the contrary, Habits are perfections (Phys. vii, text. 17). But perfection is of the greatest
necessity to a thing: since it is in the nature of an end. Therefore it is necessary that there
should be habits.

I answer that, As we have said above (AA. 2, 3), habit implies a disposition in relation to
a thing's nature, and to its operation or end, by reason of which disposition a thing is well
or ill disposed thereto. Now for a thing to need to be disposed to something else, three conditions
are necessary. The first condition is that which is disposed should be distinct from that to
which it is disposed; and so, that it should be related to it as potentiality is to act. Whence,
if there is a being whose nature is not composed of potentiality and act, and whose substance
is its own operation, which itself is for itself, there we can find no room for habit and disposition,
as is clearly the case in God.

The second condition is, that that which is in a state of potentiality in regard to something
else, be capable of determination in several ways and to various things. Whence if something
be in a state of potentiality in regard to something else, but in regard to that only, there
we find no room for disposition and habit: for such a subject from its own nature has the due
relation to such an act. Wherefore if a heavenly body be composed of matter and form, since
that matter is not in a state of potentiality to another form, as we said in the First Part
(Q. 56, A. 2) there is no need for disposition or habit in respect of the form, or even in
respect of operation, since the nature of the heavenly body is not in a state of potentiality
to more than one fixed movement.

The third condition is that in disposing the subject to one of those things to which it is
in potentiality, several things should occur, capable of being adjusted in various ways: so
as to dispose the subject well or ill to its form or to its operation. Wherefore the simple
qualities of the elements which suit the natures of the elements in one single fixed way, are
not called dispositions or habits, but "simple qualities": but we call dispositions or habits,
such things as health, beauty, and so forth, which imply the adjustment of several things which
may vary in their relative adjustability. For this reason the Philosopher says (Metaph. v,
text. 24, 25) that "habit is a disposition": and disposition is "the order of that which has
parts either as to place, or as to potentiality, or as to species," as we have said above (A.
1, ad 3). Wherefore, since there are many things for whose natures and operations several things
must concur which may vary in their relative adjustability, it follows that habit is necessary.

Reply Obj. 1: By the form the nature of a thing is perfected: yet the subject needs to be disposed
in regard to the form by some disposition. But the form itself is further ordained to operation,
which is either the end, or the means to the end. And if the form is limited to one fixed operation,
no further disposition, besides the form itself, is needed for the operation. But if the form
be such that it can operate in diverse ways, as the soul; it needs to be disposed to its operations
by means of habits.

Reply Obj. 2: Power sometimes has a relation to many things: and then it needs to be determined
by something else. But if a power has not a relation to many things, it does not need a habit
to determine it, as we have said. For this reason the natural forces do not perform their operations
by means of habits: because they are of themselves determined to one mode of operation.

Reply Obj. 3: The same habit has not a relation to good and evil, as will be made clear further
on (Q. 54, A. 3): whereas the same power has a relation to good and evil. And, therefore, habits
are necessary that the powers be determined to good.

QUESTION 50

OF THE SUBJECT OF HABITS (In Six Articles)

We consider next the subject of habits: and under this head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there is a habit in the body?

(2) Whether the soul is a subject of habit, in respect of its essence or in respect of its power?

(3) Whether in the powers of the sensitive part there can be a habit?

(4) Whether there is a habit in the intellect?

(5) Whether there is a habit in the will?

(6) Whether there is a habit in separate substances?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 50, Art. 1]

Whether There Is a Habit in the Body?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is not a habit in the body. For, as the Commentator says
(De Anima iii), "a habit is that whereby we act when we will." But bodily actions are not subject
to the will, since they are natural. Therefore there can be no habit in the body.

Obj. 2: Further, all bodily dispositions are easy to change. But habit is a quality, difficult
to change. Therefore no bodily disposition can be a habit.

Obj. 3: Further, all bodily dispositions are subject to change. But change can only be in the
third species of quality, which is divided against habit. Therefore there is no habit in the body.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says in the Book of Predicaments (De Categor. vi) that health
of the body and incurable disease are called habits.

I answer that, As we have said above (Q. 49, AA. 2 seqq.), habit is a disposition of a subject
which is in a state of potentiality either to form or to operation. Therefore in so far as
habit implies disposition to operation, no habit is principally in the body as its subject.
For every operation of the body proceeds either from a natural quality of the body or from
the soul moving the body. Consequently, as to those operations which proceed from its nature,
the body is not disposed by a habit: because the natural forces are determined to one mode
of operation; and we have already said (Q. 49, A. 4) that it is when the subject is in potentiality
to many things that a habitual disposition is required. As to the operations which proceed
from the soul through the body, they belong principally to the soul, and secondarily to the
body. Now habits are in proportion to their operations: whence "by like acts like habits are
formed" (Ethic. ii, 1, 2). And therefore the dispositions to such operations are principally
in the soul. But they can be secondarily in the body: to wit, in so far as the body is disposed
and enabled with promptitude to help in the operations of the soul.

If, however, we speak of the disposition of the subject to form, thus a habitual disposition
can be in the body, which is related to the soul as a subject is to its form. And in this way
health and beauty and such like are called habitual dispositions. Yet they have not the nature
of habit perfectly: because their causes, of their very nature, are easily changeable.

On the other hand, as Simplicius reports in his Commentary on the Predicaments, Alexander denied
absolutely that habits or dispositions of the first species are in the body: and held that
the first species of quality belonged to the soul alone. And he held that Aristotle mentions
health and sickness in the Book on the Predicaments not as though they belonged to the first
species of quality, but by way of example: so that he would mean that just as health and sickness
may be easy or difficult to change, so also are all the qualities of the first species, which
are called habits and dispositions. But this is clearly contrary to the intention of Aristotle:
both because he speaks in the same way of health and sickness as examples, as of virtue and
science; and because in Phys. vii, text. 17, he expressly mentions beauty and health among habits.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection runs in the sense of habit as a disposition to operation, and
of those actions of the body which are from nature: but not in the sense of those actions which
proceed from the soul, and the principle of which is the will.

Reply Obj. 2: Bodily dispositions are not simply difficult to change on account of the changeableness
of their bodily causes. But they may be difficult to change by comparison to such a subject,
because, to wit, as long as such a subject endures, they cannot be removed; or because they
are difficult to change, by comparison to other dispositions. But qualities of the soul are
simply difficult to change, on account of the unchangeableness of the subject. And therefore
he does not say that health which is difficult to change is a habit simply: but that it is
"as a habit," as we read in the Greek [*isos hexin (Categor. viii)]. On the other hand, the
qualities of the soul are called habits simply.

Reply Obj. 3: Bodily dispositions which are in the first species of quality, as some maintained,
differ from qualities of the third species, in this, that the qualities of the third species
consist in some "becoming" and movement, as it were, wherefore they are called passions or
passible qualities. But when they have attained to perfection (specific perfection, so to speak),
they have then passed into the first species of quality. But Simplicius in his Commentary disapproves
of this; for in this way heating would be in the third species, and heat in the first species
of quality; whereas Aristotle puts heat in the third.

Wherefore Porphyrius, as Simplicius reports (Commentary), says that passion or passion-like
quality, disposition and habit, differ in bodies by way of intensity and remissness. For when
a thing receives heat in this only that it is being heated, and not so as to be able to give
heat, then we have passion, if it is transitory; or passion-like quality if it is permanent.
But when it has been brought to the point that it is able to heat something else, then it is
a disposition; and if it goes so far as to be firmly fixed and to become difficult to change,
then it will be a habit: so that disposition would be a certain intensity of passion or passion-like
quality, and habit an intensity or disposition. But Simplicius disapproves of this, for such
intensity and remissness do not imply diversity on the part of the form itself, but on the
part of the diverse participation thereof by the subject; so that there would be no diversity
among the species of quality. And therefore we must say otherwise that, as was explained above
(Q. 49, A. 2, ad 1), the adjustment of the passion-like qualities themselves, according to
their suitability to nature, implies the notion of disposition: and so, when a change takes
place in these same passion-like qualities, which are heat and cold, moisture and dryness,
there results a change as to sickness and health. But change does not occur in regard to like
habits and dispositions, primarily and of themselves.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 50, art.

Objection 1: It would seem that habit is in the soul in respect of its essence rather than
in respect of its powers. For we speak of dispositions and habits in relation to nature, as
stated above (Q. 49, A. 2). But nature regards the essence of the soul rather than the powers;
because it is in respect of its essence that the soul is the nature of such a body and the
form thereof. Therefore habits are in the soul in respect of its essence and not in respect
of its powers.

Obj. 2: Further, accident is not the subject of accident. Now habit is an accident. But the
powers of the soul are in the genus of accident, as we have said in the First Part (Q. 77,
A. 1, ad 5). Therefore habit is not in the soul in respect of its powers.

Obj. 3: Further, the subject is prior to that which is in the subject. But since habit belongs
to the first species of quality, it is prior to power, which belongs to the second species.
Therefore habit is not in a power of the soul as its subject.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. i, 13) puts various habits in the various powers of
the soul.

I answer that, As we have said above (Q. 49, AA. 2, 3), habit implies a certain disposition
in relation to nature or to operation. If therefore we take habit as having a relation to nature,
it cannot be in the soul--that is, if we speak of human nature: for the soul itself is the
form completing the human nature; so that, regarded in this way, habit or disposition is rather
to be found in the body by reason of its relation to the soul, than in the soul by reason of
its relation to the body. But if we speak of a higher nature, of which man may become a partaker,
according to 2 Pet. 1, "that we may be partakers of the Divine Nature": thus nothing hinders
some habit, namely, grace, from being in the soul in respect of its essence, as we shall state
later on (Q. 110, A. 4).

On the other hand, if we take habit in its relation to operation, it is chiefly thus that habits
are found in the soul: in so far as the soul is not determined to one operation, but is indifferent
to many, which is a condition for a habit, as we have said above (Q. 49, A. 4). And since the
soul is the principle of operation through its powers, therefore, regarded in this sense, habits
are in the soul in respect of its powers.

Reply Obj. 1: The essence of the soul belongs to human nature, not as a subject requiring to
be disposed to something further, but as a form and nature to which someone is disposed.

Reply Obj. 2: Accident is not of itself the subject of accident. But since among accidents
themselves there is a certain order, the subject, according as it is under one accident, is
conceived as the subject of a further accident. In this way we say that one accident is the
subject of another; as superficies is the subject of color, in which sense power is the subject
of habit.

Reply Obj. 3: Habit takes precedence of power, according as it implies a disposition to nature:
whereas power always implies a relation to operation, which is posterior, since nature is the
principle of operation. But the habit whose subject is a power, does not imply relation to
nature, but to operation. Wherefore it is posterior to power. Or, we may say that habit takes
precedence of power, as the complete takes precedence of the incomplete, and as act takes precedence
of potentiality. For act is naturally prior to potentiality, though potentiality is prior in
order of generation and time, as stated in Metaph. vii, text. 17; ix, text. 13.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 50, Art. 3]

Whether There Can Be Any Habits in the Powers of the Sensitive Part?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be any habits in the powers of the sensitive part.
For as the nutritive power is an irrational part, so is the sensitive power. But there can
be no habits in the powers of the nutritive part. Therefore we ought not to put any habit in
the powers of the sensitive part.

Obj. 2: Further, the sensitive parts are common to us and the brutes. But there are not any
habits in brutes: for in them there is no will, which is put in the definition of habit, as
we have said above (Q. 49, A. 3). Therefore there are no habits in the sensitive powers.

Obj. 3: Further, the habits of the soul are sciences and virtues: and just as science is related
to the apprehensive power, so it virtue related to the appetitive power. But in the sensitive
powers there are no sciences: since science is of universals, which the sensitive powers cannot
apprehend. Therefore, neither can there be habits of virtue in the sensitive part.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 10) that "some virtues," namely, temperance
and fortitude, "belong to the irrational part."

I answer that, The sensitive powers can be considered in two ways: first, according as they
act from natural instinct: secondly, according as they act at the command of reason. According
as they act from natural instinct, they are ordained to one thing, even as nature is; but according
as they act at the command of reason, they can be ordained to various things. And thus there
can be habits in them, by which they are well or ill disposed in regard to something.

Reply Obj. 1: The powers of the nutritive part have not an inborn aptitude to obey the command
of reason, and therefore there are no habits in them. But the sensitive powers have an inborn
aptitude to obey the command of reason; and therefore habits can be in them: for in so far
as they obey reason, in a certain sense they are said to be rational, as stated in Ethic. i, 13.

Reply Obj. 2: The sensitive powers of dumb animals do not act at the command of reason; but
if they are left to themselves, such animals act from natural instinct: and so in them there
are no habits ordained to operations. There are in them, however, certain dispositions in relation
to nature, as health and beauty. But whereas by man's reason brutes are disposed by a sort
of custom to do things in this or that way, so in this sense, to a certain extent, we can admit
the existence of habits in dumb animals: wherefore Augustine says (QQ. lxxxiii, qu. 36): "We
find the most untamed beasts, deterred by fear of pain, from that wherein they took the keenest
pleasure; and when this has become a custom in them, we say that they are tame and gentle."
But the habit is incomplete, as to the use of the will, for they have not that power of using
or of refraining, which seems to belong to the notion of habit: and therefore, properly speaking,
there can be no habits in them.

Reply Obj. 3: The sensitive appetite has an inborn aptitude to be moved by the rational appetite,
as stated in De Anima iii, text. 57: but the rational powers of apprehension have an inborn
aptitude to receive from the sensitive powers. And therefore it is more suitable that habits
should be in the powers of sensitive appetite than in the powers of sensitive apprehension,
since in the powers of sensitive appetite habits do not exist except according as they act
at the command of the reason. And yet even in the interior powers of sensitive apprehension,
we may admit of certain habits whereby man has a facility of memory, thought or imagination:
wherefore also the Philosopher says (De Memor. et Remin. ii) that "custom conduces much to
a good memory": the reason of which is that these powers also are moved to act at the command
of the reason.

On the other hand the exterior apprehensive powers, as sight, hearing and the like, are not
susceptible of habits, but are ordained to their fixed acts, according to the disposition of
their nature, just as the members of the body, for there are no habits in them, but rather
in the powers which command their movements.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 50, Art. 4]

Whether There Is Any Habit in the Intellect?

Objection 1: It would seem that there are no habits in the intellect. For habits are in conformity
with operations, as stated above (A. 1). But the operations of man are common to soul and body,
as stated in De Anima i, text. 64. Therefore also are habits. But the intellect is not an act
of the body (De Anima iii, text. 6). Therefore the intellect is not the subject of a habit.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is in a thing, is there according to the mode of that in which it
is. But that which is form without matter, is act only: whereas what is composed of form and
matter, has potentiality and act at the same time. Therefore nothing at the same time potential
and actual can be in that which is form only, but only in that which is composed of matter
and form. Now the intellect is form without matter. Therefore habit, which has potentiality
at the same time as act, being a sort of medium between the two, cannot be in the intellect;
but only in the conjunction, which is composed of soul and body.

Obj. 3: Further, habit is a disposition whereby we are well or ill disposed in regard to something,
as is said (Metaph. v, text. 25). But that anyone should be well or ill disposed to an act
of the intellect is due to some disposition of the body: wherefore also it is stated (De Anima
ii, text. 94) that "we observe men with soft flesh to be quick witted." Therefore the habits
of knowledge are not in the intellect, which is separate, but in some power which is the act
of some part of the body.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 2, 3, 10) puts science, wisdom and understanding,
which is the habit of first principles, in the intellective part of the soul.

I answer that, concerning intellective habits there have been various opinions. Some, supposing
that there was only one possible [*See First Part, Q. 79, A. 2, ad 2] intellect for all men,
were bound to hold that habits of knowledge are not in the intellect itself, but in the interior
sensitive powers. For it is manifest that men differ in habits; and so it was impossible to
put the habits of knowledge directly in that, which, being only one, would be common to all
men. Wherefore if there were but one single "possible" intellect of all men, the habits of
science, in which men differ from one another, could not be in the "possible" intellect as
their subject, but would be in the interior sensitive powers, which differ in various men.

Now, in the first place, this supposition is contrary to the mind of Aristotle. For it is manifest
that the sensitive powers are rational, not by their essence, but only by participation (Ethic.
i, 13). Now the Philosopher puts the intellectual virtues, which are wisdom, science and understanding,
in that which is rational by its essence. Wherefore they are not in the sensitive powers, but
in the intellect itself. Moreover he says expressly (De Anima iii, text. 8, 18) that when the
"possible" intellect "is thus identified with each thing," that is, when it is reduced to act
in respect of singulars by the intelligible species, "then it is said to be in act, as the
knower is said to be in act; and this happens when the intellect can act of itself," i.e. by
considering: "and even then it is in potentiality in a sense; but not in the same way as before
learning and discovering." Therefore the "possible" intellect itself is the subject of the
habit of science, by which the intellect, even though it be not actually considering, is able
to consider. In the second place, this supposition is contrary to the truth. For as to whom
belongs the operation, belongs also the power to operate, belongs also the habit. But to understand
and to consider is the proper act of the intellect. Therefore also the habit whereby one considers
is properly in the intellect itself.

Reply Obj. 1: Some said, as Simplicius reports in his Commentary on the Predicaments, that,
since every operation of man is to a certain extent an operation of the conjunctum, as the
Philosopher says (De Anima i, text. 64); therefore no habit is in the soul only, but in the
conjunctum. And from this it follows that no habit is in the intellect, for the intellect is
separate, as ran the argument, given above. But the argument is not cogent. For habit is not
a disposition of the object to the power, but rather a disposition of the power to the object:
wherefore the habit needs to be in that power which is principle of the act, and not in that
which is compared to the power as its object.

Now the act of understanding is not said to be common to soul and body, except in respect of
the phantasm, as is stated in De Anima, text. 66. But it is clear that the phantasm is compared
as object to the passive intellect (De Anima iii, text. 3, 39). Whence it follows that the
intellective habit is chiefly on the part of the intellect itself; and not on the part of the
phantasm, which is common to soul and body. And therefore we must say that the "possible" intellect
is the subject of habit, which is in potentiality to many: and this belongs, above all, to
the "possible" intellect. Wherefore the "possible" intellect is the subject of intellectual habits.

Reply Obj. 2: As potentiality to sensible being belongs to corporeal matter, so potentiality
to intellectual being belongs to the "possible" intellect. Wherefore nothing forbids habit
to be in the "possible" intellect, for it is midway between pure potentiality and perfect act.

Reply Obj. 3: Because the apprehensive powers inwardly prepare their proper objects for the
possible intellect, therefore it is by the good disposition of these powers, to which the good
disposition of the body cooperates, that man is rendered apt to understand. And so in a secondary
way the intellective habit can be in these powers. But principally it is in the "possible"
intellect.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 50, Art. 5]

Whether Any Habit Is in the Will?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is not a habit in the will. For the habit which is in
the intellect is the intelligible species, by means of which the intellect actually understands.
But the will does not act by means of species. Therefore the will is not the subject of habit.

Obj. 2: Further, no habit is allotted to the active intellect, as there is to the "possible"
intellect, because the former is an active power. But the will is above all an active power,
because it moves all the powers to their acts, as stated above (Q. 9, A. 1). Therefore there
is no habit in the will.

Obj. 3: Further, in the natural powers there is no habit, because, by reason of their nature,
they are determinate to one thing. But the will, by reason of its nature, is ordained to tend
to the good which reason directs. Therefore there is no habit in the will.

On the contrary, Justice is a habit. But justice is in the will; for it is "a habit whereby
men will and do that which is just" (Ethic. v, 1). Therefore the will is the subject of a habit.

I answer that, Every power which may be variously directed to act, needs a habit whereby it
is well disposed to its act. Now since the will is a rational power, it may be variously directed
to act. And therefore in the will we must admit the presence of a habit whereby it is well
disposed to its act. Moreover, from the very nature of habit, it is clear that it is principally
related to the will; inasmuch as habit "is that which one uses when one wills," as stated above
(A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: Even as in the intellect there is a species which is the likeness of the object;
so in the will, and in every appetitive power there must be something by which the power is
inclined to its object; for the act of the appetitive power is nothing but a certain inclination,
as we have said above (Q. 6, A. 4; Q. 22, A. 2). And therefore in respect of those things to
which it is inclined sufficiently by the nature of the power itself, the power needs no quality
to incline it. But since it is necessary, for the end of human life, that the appetitive power
be inclined to something fixed, to which it is not inclined by the nature of the power, which
has a relation to many and various things, therefore it is necessary that, in the will and
in the other appetitive powers, there be certain qualities to incline them, and these are called
habits.

Reply Obj. 2: The active intellect is active only, and in no way passive. But the will, and
every appetitive power, is both mover and moved (De Anima iii, text. 54). And therefore the
comparison between them does not hold; for to be susceptible of habit belongs to that which
is somehow in potentiality.

Reply Obj. 3: The will from the very nature of the power is inclined to the good of the reason.
But because this good is varied in many ways, the will needs to be inclined, by means of a
habit, to some fixed good of the reason, in order that action may follow more promptly.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 50, Art. 6]

Whether There Are Habits in the Angels?

Objection 1: It would seem that there are no habits in the angels. For Maximus, commentator
of Dionysius (Coel. Hier. vii), says: "It is not proper to suppose that there are intellectual
(i.e. spiritual) powers in the divine intelligences (i.e. in the angels) after the manner of
accidents, as in us: as though one were in the other as in a subject: for accident of any kind
is foreign to them." But every habit is an accident. Therefore there are no habits in the angels.

Obj. 2: Further, as Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. iv): "The holy dispositions of the heavenly
essences participate, above all other things, in God's goodness." But that which is of itself
(per se) is prior to and more powerful than that which is by another (per aliud). Therefore
the angelic essences are perfected of themselves unto conformity with God, and therefore not
by means of habits. And this seems to have been the reasoning of Maximus, who in the same passage
adds: "For if this were the case, surely their essence would not remain in itself, nor could
it have been as far as possible deified of itself."

Obj. 3: Further, habit is a disposition (Metaph. v, text. 25). But disposition, as is said
in the same book, is "the order of that which has parts." Since, therefore, angels are simple
substances, it seems that there are no dispositions and habits in them.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. vii) that the angels of the first hierarchy are
called: "Fire-bearers and Thrones and Outpouring of Wisdom, by which is indicated the godlike
nature of their habits."

I answer that, Some have thought that there are no habits in the angels, and that whatever
is said of them, is said essentially. Whence Maximus, after the words which we have quoted,
says: "Their dispositions, and the powers which are in them, are essential, through the absence
of matter in them." And Simplicius says the same in his Commentary on the Predicaments: "Wisdom
which is in the soul is its habit: but that which is in the intellect, is its substance. For
everything divine is sufficient of itself, and exists in itself."

Now this opinion contains some truth, and some error. For it is manifest from what we have
said (Q. 49, A. 4) that only a being in potentiality is the subject of habit. So the above-mentioned
commentators considered that angels are immaterial substances, and that there is no material
potentiality in them, and on that account, excluded from them habit and any kind of accident.
Yet since though there is no material potentiality in angels, there is still some potentiality
in them (for to be pure act belongs to God alone), therefore, as far as potentiality is found
to be in them, so far may habits be found in them. But because the potentiality of matter and
the potentiality of intellectual substance are not of the same kind. Whence, Simplicius says
in his Commentary on the Predicaments that: "The habits of the intellectual substance are not
like the habits here below, but rather are they like simple and immaterial images which it
contains in itself."

However, the angelic intellect and the human intellect differ with regard to this habit. For
the human intellect, being the lowest in the intellectual order, is in potentiality as regards
all intelligible things, just as primal matter is in respect of all sensible forms; and therefore
for the understanding of all things, it needs some habit. But the angelic intellect is not
as a pure potentiality in the order of intelligible things, but as an act; not indeed as pure
act (for this belongs to God alone), but with an admixture of some potentiality: and the higher
it is, the less potentiality it has. And therefore, as we said in the First Part (Q. 55, A.
1), so far as it is in potentiality, so far is it in need of habitual perfection by means of
intelligible species in regard to its proper operation: but so far as it is in act, through
its own essence it can understand some things, at least itself, and other things according
to the mode of its substance, as stated in De Causis: and the more perfect it is, the more
perfectly will it understand.

But since no angel attains to the perfection of God, but all are infinitely distant therefrom;
for this reason, in order to attain to God Himself, through intellect and will, the angels
need some habits, being as it were in potentiality in regard to that Pure Act. Wherefore Dionysius
says (Coel. Hier. vii) that their habits are "godlike," that is to say, that by them they are
made like to God.

But those habits that are dispositions to the natural being are not in angels, since they are
immaterial.

Reply Obj. 1: This saying of Maximus must be understood of material habits and accidents.

Reply Obj. 2: As to that which belongs to angels by their essence, they do not need a habit.
But as they are not so far beings of themselves, as not to partake of Divine wisdom and goodness,
therefore, so far as they need to partake of something from without, so far do they need to
have habits.

Reply Obj. 3: In angels there are no essential parts: but there are potential parts, in so
far as their intellect is perfected by several species, and in so far as their will has a relation
to several things.

QUESTION 51

OF THE CAUSE OF HABITS, AS TO THEIR FORMATION (In Four Articles)

We must next consider the cause of habits: and firstly, as to their formation; secondly, as
to their increase; thirdly, as to their diminution and corruption. Under the first head there
are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether any habit is from nature?

(2) Whether any habit is caused by acts?

(3) Whether any habit can be caused by one act?

(4) Whether any habits are infused in man by God?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 51, Art. 1]

Whether Any Habit Is from Nature?

Objection 1: It would seem that no habit is from nature. For the use of those things which
are from nature does not depend on the will. But habit "is that which we use when we will,"
as the Commentator says on De Anima iii. Therefore habit is not from nature.

Obj. 2: Further, nature does not employ two where one is sufficient. But the powers of the
soul are from nature. If therefore the habits of the powers were from nature, habit and power
would be one.

Obj. 3: Further, nature does not fail in necessaries. But habits are necessary in order to
act well, as we have stated above (Q. 49, A. 4). If therefore any habits were from nature,
it seems that nature would not fail to cause all necessary habits: but this is clearly false.
Therefore habits are not from nature.

On the contrary, In Ethic. vi, 6, among other habits, place is given to understanding of first
principles, which habit is from nature: wherefore also first principles are said to be known
naturally.

I answer that, One thing can be natural to another in two ways. First in respect of the specific
nature, as the faculty of laughing is natural to man, and it is natural to fire to have an
upward tendency. Secondly, in respect of the individual nature, as it is natural to Socrates
or Plato to be prone to sickness or inclined to health, in accordance with their respective
temperaments. Again, in respect of both natures, something may be called natural in two ways:
first, because it entirely is from the nature; secondly, because it is partly from nature,
and partly from an extrinsic principle. For instance, when a man is healed by himself, his
health is entirely from nature; but when a man is healed by means of medicine, health is partly
from nature, partly from an extrinsic principle.

Thus, then, if we speak of habit as a disposition of the subject in relation to form or nature,
it may be natural in either of the foregoing ways. For there is a certain natural disposition
demanded by the human species, so that no man can be without it. And this disposition is natural
in respect of the specific nature. But since such a disposition has a certain latitude, it
happens that different grades of this disposition are becoming to different men in respect
of the individual nature. And this disposition may be either entirely from nature, or partly
from nature, and partly from an extrinsic principle, as we have said of those who are healed
by means of art.

But the habit which is a disposition to operation, and whose subject is a power of the soul,
as stated above (Q. 50, A. 2), may be natural whether in respect of the specific nature or
in respect of the individual nature: in respect of the specific nature, on the part of the
soul itself, which, since it is the form of the body, is the specific principle; but in respect
of the individual nature, on the part of the body, which is the material principle. Yet in
neither way does it happen that there are natural habits in man, so that they be entirely from
nature. In the angels, indeed, this does happen, since they have intelligible species naturally
impressed on them, which cannot be said of the human soul, as we have said in the First Part
(Q. 55, A. 2; Q. 84, A. 3).

There are, therefore, in man certain natural habits, owing their existence, partly to nature,
and partly to some extrinsic principle: in one way, indeed, in the apprehensive powers; in
another way, in the appetitive powers. For in the apprehensive powers there may be a natural
habit by way of a beginning, both in respect of the specific nature, and in respect of the
individual nature. This happens with regard to the specific nature, on the part of the soul
itself: thus the understanding of first principles is called a natural habit. For it is owing
to the very nature of the intellectual soul that man, having once grasped what is a whole and
what is a part, should at once perceive that every whole is larger than its part: and in like
manner with regard to other such principles. Yet what is a whole, and what is a part--this
he cannot know except through the intelligible species which he has received from phantasms:
and for this reason, the Philosopher at the end of the Posterior Analytics shows that knowledge
of principles comes to us from the senses.

But in respect of the individual nature, a habit of knowledge is natural as to its beginning,
in so far as one man, from the disposition of his organs of sense, is more apt than another
to understand well, since we need the sensitive powers for the operation of the intellect.

In the appetitive powers, however, no habit is natural in its beginning, on the part of the
soul itself, as to the substance of the habit; but only as to certain principles thereof, as,
for instance, the principles of common law are called the "nurseries of virtue." The reason
of this is because the inclination to its proper objects, which seems to be the beginning of
a habit, does not belong to the habit, but rather to the very nature of the powers.

But on the part of the body, in respect of the individual nature, there are some appetitive
habits by way of natural beginnings. For some are disposed from their own bodily temperament
to chastity or meekness or such like.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection takes nature as divided against reason and will; whereas reason
itself and will belong to the nature of man.

Reply Obj. 2: Something may be added even naturally to the nature of a power, while it cannot
belong to the power itself. For instance, with regard to the angels, it cannot belong to the
intellective power itself capable of knowing all things: for thus it would have to be the act
of all things, which belongs to God alone. Because that by which something is known, must needs
be the actual likeness of the thing known: whence it would follow, if the power of the angel
knew all things by itself, that it was the likeness and act of all things. Wherefore there
must needs be added to the angels' intellective power, some intelligible species, which are
likenesses of things understood: for it is by participation of the Divine wisdom and not by
their own essence, that their intellect can be actually those things which they understand.
And so it is clear that not everything belonging to a natural habit can belong to the power.

Reply Obj. 3: Nature is not equally inclined to cause all the various kinds of habits: since
some can be caused by nature, and some not, as we have said above. And so it does not follow
that because some habits are natural, therefore all are natural.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 51, Art. 2]

Whether Any Habit Is Caused by Acts?

Objection 1: It would seem that no habit is caused by acts. For habit is a quality, as we have
said above (Q. 49, A. 1). Now every quality is caused in a subject, according to the latter's
receptivity. Since then the agent, inasmuch as it acts, does not receive but rather gives:
it seems impossible for a habit to be caused in an agent by its own acts.

Obj. 2: Further, the thing wherein a quality is caused is moved to that quality, as may be
clearly seen in that which is heated or cooled: whereas that which produces the act that causes
the quality, moves, as may be seen in that which heats or cools. If therefore habits were caused
in anything by its own act, it would follow that the same would be mover and moved, active
and passive: which is impossible, as stated in Physics iii, 8.

Obj. 3: Further, the effect cannot be more noble than its cause. But habit is more noble than
the act which precedes the habit; as is clear from the fact that the latter produces more noble
acts. Therefore habit cannot be caused by an act which precedes the habit.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 1, 2) teaches that habits of virtue and vice are
caused by acts.

I answer that, In the agent there is sometimes only the active principle of its act: for instance
in fire there is only the active principle of heating. And in such an agent a habit cannot
be caused by its own act: for which reason natural things cannot become accustomed or unaccustomed,
as is stated in Ethic. ii, 1. But a certain agent is to be found, in which there is both the
active and the passive principle of its act, as we see in human acts. For the acts of the appetitive
power proceed from that same power according as it is moved by the apprehensive power presenting
the object: and further, the intellective power, according as it reasons about conclusions,
has, as it were, an active principle in a self-evident proposition. Wherefore by such acts
habits can be caused in their agents; not indeed with regard to the first active principle,
but with regard to that principle of the act, which principle is a mover moved. For everything
that is passive and moved by another, is disposed by the action of the agent; wherefore if
the acts be multiplied a certain quality is formed in the power which is passive and moved,
which quality is called a habit: just as the habits of moral virtue are caused in the appetitive
powers, according as they are moved by the reason, and as the habits of science are caused
in the intellect, according as it is moved by first propositions.

Reply Obj. 1: The agent, as agent, does not receive anything. But in so far as it moves through
being moved by another, it receives something from that which moves it: and thus is a habit caused.

Reply Obj. 2: The same thing, and in the same respect, cannot be mover and moved; but nothing
prevents a thing from being moved by itself as to different respects, as is proved in Physics
viii, text. 28, 29.

Reply Obj. 3: The act which precedes the habit, in so far as it comes from an active principle,
proceeds from a more excellent principle than is the habit caused thereby: just as the reason
is a more excellent principle than the habit of moral virtue produced in the appetitive power
by repeated acts, and as the understanding of first principles is a more excellent principle
than the science of conclusions.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 51, Art. 3]

Whether a Habit Can Be Caused by One Act?

Objection 1: It would seem that a habit can be caused by one act. For demonstration is an act
of reason. But science, which is the habit of one conclusion, is caused by one demonstration.
Therefore habit can be caused by one act.

Obj. 2: Further, as acts happen to increase by multiplication so do they happen to increase
by intensity. But a habit is caused by multiplication of acts. Therefore also if an act be
very intense, it can be the generating cause of a habit.

Obj. 3: Further, health and sickness are habits. But it happens that a man is healed or becomes
ill, by one act. Therefore one act can cause a habit.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. i, 7): "As neither does one swallow nor one day make
spring: so neither does one day nor a short time make a man blessed and happy." But "happiness
is an operation in respect of a habit of perfect virtue" (Ethic. i, 7, 10, 13). Therefore a
habit of virtue, and for the same reason, other habits, is not caused by one act.

I answer that, As we have said already (A. 2), habit is caused by act, because a passive power
is moved by an active principle. But in order that some quality be caused in that which is
passive the active principle must entirely overcome the passive. Whence we see that because
fire cannot at once overcome the combustible, it does not enkindle at once; but it gradually
expels contrary dispositions, so that by overcoming it entirely, it may impress its likeness
on it. Now it is clear that the active principle which is reason, cannot entirely overcome
the appetitive power in one act: because the appetitive power is inclined variously, and to
many things; while the reason judges in a single act, what should be willed in regard to various
aspects and circumstances. Wherefore the appetitive power is not thereby entirely overcome,
so as to be inclined like nature to the same thing, in the majority of cases; which inclination
belongs to the habit of virtue. Therefore a habit of virtue cannot be caused by one act, but
only by many.

But in the apprehensive powers, we must observe that there are two passive principles: one
is the possible (See First Part, Q. 79, A. 2, ad 2) intellect itself; the other is the intellect
which Aristotle (De Anima iii, text. 20) calls "passive," and is the "particular reason," that
is the cogitative power, with memory and imagination. With regard then to the former passive
principle, it is possible for a certain active principle to entirely overcome, by one act,
the power of its passive principle: thus one self-evident proposition convinces the intellect,
so that it gives a firm assent to the conclusion, but a probable proposition cannot do this.
Wherefore a habit of opinion needs to be caused by many acts of the reason, even on the part
of the "possible" intellect: whereas a habit of science can be caused by a single act of the
reason, so far as the possible intellect is concerned. But with regard to the lower apprehensive
powers, the same acts need to be repeated many times for anything to be firmly impressed on
the memory. And so the Philosopher says (De Memor. et Remin. 1) that "meditation strengthens
memory." Bodily habits, however, can be caused by one act, if the active principle is of great
power: sometimes, for instance, a strong dose of medicine restores health at once.

Hence the solutions to the objections are clear.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 51, Art. 4]

Whether Any Habits Are Infused in Man by God?

Objection 1: It would seem that no habit is infused in man by God. For God treats all equally.
If therefore He infuses habits into some, He would infuse them into all: which is clearly untrue.

Obj. 2: Further, God works in all things according to the mode which is suitable to their nature:
for "it belongs to Divine providence to preserve nature," as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv).
But habits are naturally caused in man by acts, as we have said above (A. 2). Therefore God
does not cause habits to be in man except by acts.

Obj. 3: Further, if any habit be infused into man by God, man can by that habit perform many
acts. But "from those acts a like habit is caused" (Ethic. ii, 1, 2). Consequently there will
be two habits of the same species in the same man, one acquired, the other infused. Now this
seems impossible: for the two forms of the same species cannot be in the same subject. Therefore
a habit is not infused into man by God.

On the contrary, it is written (Ecclus. 15:5): "God filled him with the spirit of wisdom and
understanding." Now wisdom and understanding are habits. Therefore some habits are infused
into man by God.

I answer that, Some habits are infused by God into man, for two reasons.

The first reason is because there are some habits by which man is disposed to an end which
exceeds the proportion of human nature, namely, the ultimate and perfect happiness of man,
as stated above (Q. 5, A. 5). And since habits need to be in proportion with that to which
man is disposed by them, therefore is it necessary that those habits, which dispose to this
end, exceed the proportion of human nature. Wherefore such habits can never be in man except
by Divine infusion, as is the case with all gratuitous virtues.

The other reason is, because God can produce the effects of second causes, without these second
causes, as we have said in the First Part (Q. 105, A. 6). Just as, therefore, sometimes, in
order to show His power, He causes health, without its natural cause, but which nature could
have caused, so also, at times, for the manifestation of His power, He infuses into man even
those habits which can be caused by a natural power. Thus He gave to the apostles the science
of the Scriptures and of all tongues, which men can acquire by study or by custom, but not
so perfectly.

Reply Obj. 1: God, in respect of His Nature, is the same to all, but in respect of the order
of His Wisdom, for some fixed motive, gives certain things to some, which He does not give
to others.

Reply Obj. 2: That God works in all according to their mode, does not hinder God from doing
what nature cannot do: but it follows from this that He does nothing contrary to that which
is suitable to nature.

Reply Obj. 3: Acts produced by an infused habit, do not cause a habit, but strengthen the already
existing habit; just as the remedies of medicine given to a man who is naturally health, do
not cause a kind of health, but give new strength to the health he had before.

QUESTION 52

OF THE INCREASE OF HABITS (In Three Articles)

We have now to consider the increase of habits; under which head there are three points of inquiry:

(1) Whether habits increase?

(2) Whether they increase by addition?

(3) Whether each act increases the habit?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 52, Art. 1]

Whether Habits Increase?

Objection 1: It would seem that habits cannot increase. For increase concerns quantity (Phys.
v, text. 18). But habits are not in the genus [of] quantity, but in that of quality. Therefore
there can be no increase of habits.

Obj. 2: Further, habit is a perfection (Phys. vii, text. 17, 18). But since perfection conveys
a notion of end and term, it seems that it cannot be more or less. Therefore a habit cannot
increase.

Obj. 3: Further, those things which can be more or less are subject to alteration: for that
which from being less hot becomes more hot, is said to be altered. But in habits there is no
alteration, as is proved in Phys. vii, text. 15, 17. Therefore habits cannot increase.

On the contrary, Faith is a habit, and yet it increases: wherefore the disciples said to our
Lord (Luke 17:5): "Lord, increase our faith." Therefore habits increase.

I answer that, Increase, like other things pertaining to quantity, is transferred from bodily
quantities to intelligible spiritual things, on account of the natural connection of the intellect
with corporeal things, which come under the imagination. Now in corporeal quantities, a thing
is said to be great, according as it reaches the perfection of quantity due to it; wherefore
a certain quantity is reputed great in man, which is not reputed great in an elephant. And
so also in forms, we say a thing is great because it is perfect. And since good has the nature
of perfection, therefore "in things which are great, but not in quantity, to be greater is
the same as to be better," as Augustine says (De Trin. vi, 8).

Now the perfection of a form may be considered in two ways: first, in respect of the form itself:
secondly, in respect of the participation of the form by its subject. In so far as we consider
the perfections of a form in respect of the form itself, thus the form is said to be "little"
or "great": for instance great or little health or science. But in so far as we consider the
perfection of a form in respect of the participation thereof by the subject, it is said to
be "more" or "less": for instance more or less white or healthy. Now this distinction is not
to be understood as implying that the form has a being outside its matter or subject, but that
it is one thing to consider the form according to its specific nature, and another to consider
it in respect of its participation by a subject.

In this way, then, there were four opinions among philosophers concerning intensity and remission
of habits and forms, as Simplicius relates in his Commentary on the Predicaments. For Plotinus
and the other Platonists held that qualities and habits themselves were susceptible of more
or less, for the reason that they were material and so had a certain want of definiteness,
on account of the infinity of matter. Others, on the contrary, held that qualities and habits
of themselves were not susceptible of more or less; but that the things affected by them (qualia)
are said to be more or less, in respect of the participation of the subject: that, for instance,
justice is not more or less, but the just thing. Aristotle alludes to this opinion in the Predicaments
(Categor. vi). The third opinion was that of the Stoics, and lies between the two preceding
opinions. For they held that some habits are of themselves susceptible of more and less, for
instance, the arts; and that some are not, as the virtues. The fourth opinion was held by some
who said that qualities and immaterial forms are not susceptible of more or less, but that
material forms are.

In order that the truth in this matter be made clear, we must observe that [that], in respect
of which a thing receives its species, must be something fixed and stationary, and as it were
indivisible: for whatever attains to that thing, is contained under the species, and whatever
recedes from it more or less, belongs to another species, more or less perfect. Wherefore,
the Philosopher says (Metaph. viii, text. 10) that species of things are like numbers, in which
addition or subtraction changes the species. If, therefore, a form, or anything at all, receives
its specific nature in respect of itself, or in respect of something belonging to it, it is
necessary that, considered in itself, it be something of a definite nature, which can be neither
more nor less. Such are heat, whiteness or other like qualities which are not denominated from
a relation to something else: and much more so, substance, which is per se being. But those
things which receive their species from something to which they are related, can be diversified,
in respect of themselves, according to more or less: and nonetheless they remain in the same
species, on account of the oneness of that to which they are related, and from which they receive
their species. For example, movement is in itself more intense or more remiss: and yet it remains
in the same species, on account of the oneness of the term by which it is specified. We may
observe the same thing in health; for a body attains to the nature of health, according as
it has a disposition suitable to an animal's nature, to which various dispositions may be suitable;
which disposition is therefore variable as regards more or less, and withal the nature of health
remains. Whence the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 2, 3): "Health itself may be more or less:
for the measure is not the same in all, nor is it always the same in one individual; but down
to a certain point it may decrease and still remain health."

Now these various dispositions and measures of health are by way of excess and defect: wherefore
if the name of health were given to the most perfect measure, then we should not speak of health
as greater or less. Thus therefore it is clear how a quality or form may increase or decrease
of itself, and how it cannot.

But if we consider a quality or form in respect of its participation by the subject, thus again
we find that some qualities and forms are susceptible of more or less, and some not. Now Simplicius
assigns the cause of this diversity to the fact that substance in itself cannot be susceptible
of more or less, because it is per se being. And therefore every form which is participated
substantially by its subject, cannot vary in intensity and remission: wherefore in the genus
of substance nothing is said to be more or less. And because quantity is nigh to substance,
and because shape follows on quantity, therefore is it that neither in these can there be such
a thing as more or less. Whence the Philosopher says (Phys. vii, text. 15) that when a thing
receives form and shape, it is not said to be altered, but to be made. But other qualities
which are further removed from quantity, and are connected with passions and actions, are susceptible
of more or less, in respect of their participation by the subject.

Now it is possible to explain yet further the reason of this diversity. For, as we have said,
that from which a thing receives its species must remain indivisibly fixed and constant in
something indivisible. Wherefore in two ways it may happen that a form cannot be participated
more or less. First because the participator has its species in respect of that form. And for
this reason no substantial form is participated more or less. Wherefore the Philosopher says
(Metaph. viii, text. 10) that, "as a number cannot be more or less, so neither can that which
is in the species of substance," that is, in respect of its participation of the specific form:
"but in so far as substance may be with matter," i.e. in respect of material dispositions,
"more or less are found in substance."

Secondly this may happen from the fact that the form is essentially indivisible: wherefore
if anything participate that form, it must needs participate it in respect of its indivisibility.
For this reason we do not speak of the species of number as varying in respect of more or less;
because each species thereof is constituted by an indivisible unity. The same is to be said
of the species of continuous quantity, which are denominated from numbers, as two-cubits-long,
three-cubits-long, and of relations of quantity, as double and treble, and of figures of quantity,
as triangle and tetragon.

This same explanation is given by Aristotle in the Predicaments (Categor. vi), where in explaining
why figures are not susceptible of more or less, he says: "Things which are given the nature
of a triangle or a circle, are accordingly triangles and circles": to wit, because indivisibility
is essential to the motion of such, wherefore whatever participates their nature must participate
it in its indivisibility.

It is clear, therefore, since we speak of habits and dispositions in respect of a relation
to something (Phys. vii, text. 17), that in two ways intensity and remission may be observed
in habits and dispositions. First, in respect of the habit itself: thus, for instance, we speak
of greater or less health; greater or less science, which extends to more or fewer things.
Secondly, in respect of participation by the subject: in so far as equal science or health
is participated more in one than in another, according to a diverse aptitude arising either
from nature, or from custom. For habit and disposition do not give species to the subject:
nor again do they essentially imply indivisibility.

We shall say further on (Q. 66, A. 1) how it is with the virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: As the word "great" is taken from corporeal quantities and applied to the intelligible
perfections of forms; so also is the word "growth," the term of which is something great.

Reply Obj. 2: Habit is indeed a perfection, but not a perfection which is the term of its subject;
for instance, a term giving the subject its specific being. Nor again does the nature of a
habit include the notion of term, as do the species of numbers. Wherefore there is nothing
to hinder it from being susceptible of more or less.

Reply Obj. 3: Alteration is primarily indeed in the qualities of the third species; but secondarily
it may be in the qualities of the first species: for, supposing an alteration as to hot and
cold, there follows in an animal an alteration as to health and sickness. In like manner, if
an alteration take place in the passions of the sensitive appetite, or the sensitive powers
of apprehension, an alteration follows as to science and virtue (Phys. viii, text. 20).

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 52, Art. 2]

Whether Habit Increases by Addition?

Objection 1: It would seem that the increase of habits is by way of addition. For the word
"increase," as we have said, is transferred to forms, from corporeal quantities. But in corporeal
quantities there is no increase without addition: wherefore (De Gener. i, text. 31) it is said
that "increase is an addition to a magnitude already existing." Therefore in habits also there
is no increase without addition.

Obj. 2: Further, habit is not increased except by means of some agent. But every agent does
something in the passive subject: for instance, that which heats, causes heat in that which
is heated. Therefore there is no increase without addition.

Obj. 3: Further, as that which is not white, is in potentiality to be white: so that which
is less white, is in potentiality to be more white. But that which is not white, is not made
white except by the addition of whiteness. Therefore that which is less white, is not made
more white, except by an added whiteness.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Phys. iv, text. 84): "That which is hot is made hotter,
without making, in the matter, something hot, that was not hot, when the thing was less hot."
Therefore, in like manner, neither is any addition made in other forms when they increase.

I answer that, The solution of this question depends on what we have said above (A. 1). For
we said that increase and decrease in forms which are capable of intensity and remissness,
happen in one way not on the part of the very form considered in itself, through the diverse
participation thereof by the subject. Wherefore such increase of habits and other forms, is
not caused by an addition of form to form; but by the subject participating more or less perfectly,
one and the same form. And just as, by an agent which is in act, something is made actually
hot, beginning, as it were, to participate a form, not as though the form itself were made,
as is proved in Metaph. vii, text. 32, so, by an intense action of the agent, something is
made more hot, as it were participating the form more perfectly, not as though something were
added to the form.

For if this increase in forms were understood to be by way of addition, this could only be
either in the form itself or in the subject. If it be understood of the form itself, it has
already been stated (A. 1) that such an addition or subtraction would change the species; even
as the species of color is changed when a thing from being pale becomes white. If, on the other
hand, this addition be understood as applying to the subject, this could only be either because
one part of the subject receives a form which it had not previously (thus we may say cold increases
in a man who, after being cold in one part of his body, is cold in several parts), or because
some other subject is added sharing in the same form (as when a hot thing is added to another,
or one white thing to another). But in either of these two ways we have not a more white or
a more hot thing, but a greater white or hot thing.

Since, however, as stated above (A. 1), certain accidents are of themselves susceptible of
more or less, in some of these we may find increase by addition. For movement increases by
an addition either to the time it lasts, or to the course it follows: and yet the species remains
the same on account of the oneness of the term. Yet movement increases the intensity as to
participation in its subject: i.e. in so far as the same movement can be executed more or less
speedily or readily. In like manner, science can increase in itself by addition; thus when
anyone learns several conclusions of geometry, the same specific habit of science increases
in that man. Yet a man's science increases, as to the subject's participation thereof, in intensity,
in so far as one man is quicker and readier than another in considering the same conclusions.

As to bodily habits, it does not seem very probable that they receive increase by way of addition.
For an animal is not said to be simply healthy or beautiful, unless it be such in all its parts.
And if it be brought to a more perfect measure, this is the result of a change in the simple
qualities, which are not susceptible of increase save in intensity on the part of the subject
partaking of them.

How this question affects virtues we shall state further on (Q. 66, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: Even in bodily bulk increase is twofold. First, by addition of one subject to
another; such is the increase of living things. Secondly, by mere intensity, without any addition
at all; such is the case with things subject to rarefaction, as is stated in Phys. iv, text. 63.

Reply Obj. 2: The cause that increases a habit, always effects something in the subject, but
not a new form. But it causes the subject to partake more perfectly of a pre-existing form,
or it makes the form to extend further.

Reply Obj. 3: What is not already white, is potentially white, as not yet possessing the form
of whiteness: hence the agent causes a new form in the subject. But that which is less hot
or white, is not in potentiality to those forms, since it has them already actually: but it
is in potentiality to a perfect mode of participation; and this it receives through the agent's
action.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 52, Art. 3]

Whether Every Act Increases Its Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that every act increases its habit. For when the cause is increased
the effect is increased. Now acts are causes of habits, as stated above (Q. 51, A. 2). Therefore
a habit increases when its acts are multiplied.

Obj. 2: Further, of like things a like judgment should be formed. But all the acts proceeding
from one and the same habit are alike (Ethic. ii, 1, 2). Therefore if some acts increase a
habit, every act should increase it.

Obj. 3: Further, like is increased by like. But any act is like the habit whence it proceeds.
Therefore every act increases the habit.

On the contrary, Opposite effects do not result from the same cause. But according to Ethic.
ii, 2, some acts lessen the habit whence they proceed, for instance if they be done carelessly.
Therefore it is not every act that increases a habit.

I answer that, "Like acts cause like habits" (Ethic. ii, 1, 2). Now things are like or unlike
not only in respect of their qualities being the same or various, but also in respect of the
same or a different mode of participation. For it is not only black that is unlike white, but
also less white is unlike more white, since there is movement from less white to more white,
even as from one opposite to another, as stated in Phys. v, text. 52.

But since use of habits depends on the will, as was shown above (Q. 50, A. 5); just as one
who has a habit may fail to use it or may act contrary to it; so may he happen to use the habit
by performing an act that is not in proportion to the intensity of the habit. Accordingly,
if the intensity of the act correspond in proportion to the intensity of the habit, or even
surpass it, every such act either increases the habit or disposes to an increase thereof, if
we may speak of the increase of habits as we do of the increase of an animal. For not every
morsel of food actually increases the animal's size as neither does every drop of water hollow
out the stone: but the multiplication of food results at last in an increase of the body. So,
too, repeated acts cause a habit to grow. If, however, the act falls short of the intensity
of the habit, such an act does not dispose to an increase of that habit, but rather to a lessening
thereof.

From this it is clear how to solve the objections.

QUESTION 53

HOW HABITS ARE CORRUPTED OR DIMINISHED (In Three Articles)

We must now consider how habits are lost or weakened; and under this head there are three points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether a habit can be corrupted?

(2) Whether it can be diminished?

(3) How are habits corrupted or diminished?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 53, Art. 1]

Whether a Habit Can Be Corrupted?

Objection 1: It would seem that a habit cannot be corrupted. For habit is within its subject
like a second nature; wherefore it is pleasant to act from habit. Now so long as a thing is,
its nature is not corrupted. Therefore neither can a habit be corrupted so long as its subject
remains.

Obj. 2: Further, whenever a form is corrupted, this is due either to corruption of its subject,
or to its contrary: thus sickness ceases through corruption of the animal, or through the advent
of health. Now science, which is a habit, cannot be lost through corruption of its subject:
since "the intellect," which is its subject, "is a substance that is incorruptible" (De Anima
i, text. 65). In like manner, neither can it be lost through the action of its contrary: since
intelligible species are not contrary to one another (Metaph. vii, text. 52). Therefore the
habit of science can nowise be lost.

Obj. 3: Further, all corruption results from some movement. But the habit of science, which
is in the soul, cannot be corrupted by a direct movement of the soul itself, since the soul
is not moved directly. It is, however, moved indirectly through the movement of the body: and
yet no bodily change seems capable of corrupting the intelligible species residing in the intellect:
since the intellect independently of the body is the proper abode of the species; for which
reason it is held that habits are not lost either through old age or through death. Therefore
science cannot be corrupted. For the same reason neither can habits of virtue be corrupted,
since they also are in the rational soul, and, as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. i, 10),
"virtue is more lasting than learning."

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (De Long. et Brev. Vitae ii) that "forgetfulness and
deception are the corruption of science." Moreover, by sinning a man loses a habit of virtue:
and again, virtues are engendered and corrupted by contrary acts (Ethic. ii, 2).

I answer that, A form is said to be corrupted directly by its contrary; indirectly, through
its subject being corrupted. When therefore a habit has a corruptible subject, and a cause
that has a contrary, it can be corrupted both ways. This is clearly the case with bodily habits--for
instance, health and sickness. But those habits that have an incorruptible subject, cannot
be corrupted indirectly. There are, however, some habits which, while residing chiefly in an
incorruptible subject, reside nevertheless secondarily in a corruptible subject; such is the
habit of science which is chiefly indeed in the "possible" intellect, but secondarily in the
sensitive powers of apprehension, as stated above (Q. 50, A. 3, ad 3). Consequently the habit
of science cannot be corrupted indirectly, on the part of the "possible" intellect, but only
on the part of the lower sensitive powers.

We must therefore inquire whether habits of this kind can be corrupted directly. If then there
be a habit having a contrary, either on the part of itself or on the part of its cause, it
can be corrupted directly: but if it has no contrary, it cannot be corrupted directly. Now
it is evident that an intelligible species residing in the "possible" intellect, has no contrary;
nor can the active intellect, which is the cause of that species, have a contrary. Wherefore
if in the "possible" intellect there be a habit caused immediately by the active intellect,
such a habit is incorruptible both directly and indirectly. Such are the habits of the first
principles, both speculative and practical, which cannot be corrupted by any forgetfulness
or deception whatever: even as the Philosopher says about prudence (Ethic. vi, 5) that "it
cannot be lost by being forgotten." There is, however, in the "possible" intellect a habit
caused by the reason, to wit, the habit of conclusions, which is called science, to the cause
of which something may be contrary in two ways. First, on the part of those very propositions
which are the starting point of the reason: for the assertion "Good is not good" is contrary
to the assertion "Good is good" (Peri Herm. ii). Secondly, on the part of the process of reasoning;
forasmuch as a sophistical syllogism is contrary to a dialectic or demonstrative syllogism.
Wherefore it is clear that a false reason can corrupt the habit of a true opinion or even of
science. Hence the Philosopher, as stated above, says that "deception is the corruption of
science." As to virtues, some of them are intellectual, residing in reason itself, as stated
in Ethic. vi, 1: and to these applies what we have said of science and opinion. Some, however,
viz. the moral virtues, are in the appetitive part of the soul; and the same may be said of
the contrary vices. Now the habits of the appetitive part are caused therein because it is
natural to it to be moved by the reason. Therefore a habit either of virtue or of vice, may
be corrupted by a judgment of reason, whenever its motion is contrary to such vice or virtue,
whether through ignorance, passion or deliberate choice.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated in Ethic. vii, 10, a habit is like a second nature, and yet it falls
short of it. And so it is that while the nature of a thing cannot in any way be taken away
from a thing, a habit is removed, though with difficulty.

Reply Obj. 2: Although there is no contrary to intelligible species, yet there can be a contrary
to assertions and to the process of reason, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Science is not taken away by movement of the body, if we consider the root itself
of the habit, but only as it may prove an obstacle to the act of science; in so far as the
intellect, in its act, has need of the sensitive powers, which are impeded by corporal transmutation.
But the intellectual movement of the reason can corrupt the habit of science, even as regards
the very root of the habit. In like manner a habit of virtue can be corrupted. Nevertheless
when it is said that "virtue is more lasting than learning," this must be understood in respect,
not of the subject or cause, but of the act: because the use of virtue continues through the
whole of life, whereas the use of learning does not.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 53, Art. 2]

Whether a Habit Can Diminish?

Objection 1: It would seem that a habit cannot diminish. Because a habit is a simple quality
and form. Now a simple thing is possessed either wholly or not at all. Therefore although a
habit can be lost it cannot diminish.

Obj. 2: Further, if a thing is befitting an accident, this is by reason either of the accident
or of its subject. Now a habit does not become more or less intense by reason of itself; else
it would follow that a species might be predicated of its individuals more or less. And if
it can become less intense as to its participation by its subject, it would follow that something
is accidental to a habit, proper thereto and not common to the habit and its subject. Now whenever
a form has something proper to it besides its subject, that form can be separate, as stated
in De Anima i, text. 13. Hence it follows that a habit is a separable form; which is impossible.

Obj. 3: Further, the very notion and nature of a habit as of any accident, is inherence in
a subject: wherefore any accident is defined with reference to its subject. Therefore if a
habit does not become more or less intense in itself, neither can it in its inherence in its
subject: and consequently it will be nowise less intense.

On the contrary, It is natural for contraries to be applicable to the same thing. Now increase
and decrease are contraries. Since therefore a habit can increase, it seems that it can also
diminish.

I answer that, Habits diminish, just as they increase, in two ways, as we have already explained
(Q. 52, A. 1). And since they increase through the same cause as that which engenders them,
so too they diminish by the same cause as that which corrupts them: since the diminishing of
a habit is the road which leads to its corruption, even as, on the other hand, the engendering
of a habit is a foundation of its increase.

Reply Obj. 1: A habit, considered in itself, is a simple form. It is not thus that it is subject
to decrease; but according to the different ways in which its subject participates in it. This
is due to the fact that the subject's potentiality is indeterminate, through its being able
to participate a form in various ways, or to extend to a greater or a smaller number of things.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument would hold, if the essence itself of a habit were nowise subject
to decrease. This we do not say; but that a certain decrease in the essence of a habit has
its origin, not in the habit, but in its subject.

Reply Obj. 3: No matter how we take an accident, its very notion implies dependence on a subject,
but in different ways. For if we take an accident in the abstract, it implies relation to a
subject, which relation begins in the accident and terminates in the subject: for "whiteness
is that whereby a thing is white." Accordingly in defining an accident in the abstract, we
do not put the subject as though it were the first part of the definition, viz. the genus;
but we give it the second place, which is that of the difference; thus we say that simitas
is "a curvature of the nose." But if we take accidents in the concrete, the relation begins
in the subject and terminates in the concrete, the relation begins in the subject and terminates
at the accident: for "a white thing" is "something that has whiteness." Accordingly in defining
this kind of accident, we place the subject as the genus, which is the first part of a definition;
for we say that a simum is a "snub-nose." Accordingly whatever is befitting an accident on
the part of the subject, but is not of the very essence of the accident, is ascribed to that
accident, not in the abstract, but in the concrete. Such are increase and decrease in certain
accidents: wherefore to be more or less white is not ascribed to whiteness but to a white thing.
The same applies to habits and other qualities; save that certain habits and other qualities;
save that certain habits increase or diminish by a kind of addition, as we have already clearly
explained (Q. 52, A. 2).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 53, Art. 3]

Whether a Habit Is Corrupted or Diminished Through Mere Cessation from Act?

Objection 1: It would seem that a habit is not corrupted or diminished through mere cessation
from act. For habits are more lasting than passion-like qualities, as we have explained above
(Q. 49, A. 2, ad 3; Q. 50, A. 1). But passion-like qualities are neither corrupted nor diminished
by cessation from act: for whiteness is not lessened through not affecting the sight, nor heat
through ceasing to make something hot. Therefore neither are habits diminished or corrupted
through cessation from act.

Obj. 2: Further, corruption and diminution are changes. Now nothing is changed without a moving
cause. Since therefore cessation from act does not imply a moving cause, it does not appear
how a habit can be diminished or corrupted through cessation from act.

Obj. 3: Further, the habits of science and virtue are in the intellectual soul which is above
time. Now those things that are above time are neither destroyed nor diminished by length of
time. Neither, therefore, are such habits destroyed or diminished through length of time, if
one fails for long to exercise them.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (De Long. et Brev. Vitae ii) that not only "deception,"
but also "forgetfulness, is the corruption of science." Moreover he says (Ethic. viii, 5) that
"want of intercourse has dissolved many a friendship." In like manner other habits of virtue
are diminished or destroyed through cessation from act.

I answer that, As stated in Phys. vii, text. 27, a thing is a cause of movement in two ways.
First, directly; and such a thing causes movement by reason of its proper form; thus fire causes
heat. Secondly, indirectly; for instance, that which removes an obstacle. It is in this latter
way that the destruction or diminution of a habit results through cessation from act, in so
far, to wit, as we cease from exercising an act which overcame the causes that destroyed or
weakened that habit. For it has been stated (A. 1) that habits are destroyed or diminished
directly through some contrary agency. Consequently all habits that are gradually undermined
by contrary agencies which need to be counteracted by acts proceeding from those habits, are
diminished or even destroyed altogether by long cessation from act, as is clearly seen in the
case both of science and of virtue. For it is evident that a habit of moral virtue makes a
man ready to choose the mean in deeds and passions. And when a man fails to make use of his
virtuous habit in order to moderate his own passions or deeds, the necessary result is that
many passions and deeds fail to observe the mode of virtue, by reason of the inclination of
the sensitive appetite and of other external agencies. Wherefore virtue is destroyed or lessened
through cessation from act. The same applies to the intellectual habits, which render man ready
to judge aright of those things that are pictured by his imagination. Hence when man ceases
to make use of his intellectual habits, strange fancies, sometimes in opposition to them, arise
in his imagination; so that unless those fancies be, as it were, cut off or kept back by frequent
use of his intellectual habits, man becomes less fit to judge aright, and sometimes is even
wholly disposed to the contrary, and thus the intellectual habit is diminished or even wholly
destroyed by cessation from act.

Reply Obj. 1: Even heat would be destroyed through ceasing to give heat, if, for this same
reason, cold which is destructive of heat were to increase.

Reply Obj. 2: Cessation from act is a moving cause, conducive of corruption or diminution,
by removing the obstacles thereto, as explained above.

Reply Obj. 3: The intellectual part of the soul, considered in itself, is above time, but the
sensitive part is subject to time, and therefore in course of time it undergoes change as to
the passions of the sensitive part, and also as to the powers of apprehension. Hence the Philosopher
says (Phys. iv. text. 117) that time makes us forget.

QUESTION 54

OF THE DISTINCTION OF HABITS (In Four Articles)

We have now to consider the distinction of habits; and under this head there are four points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether many habits can be in one power?

(2) Whether habits are distinguished by their objects?

(3) Whether habits are divided into good and bad?

(4) Whether one habit may be made up of many habits?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 54, Art. 1]

Whether Many Habits Can Be in One Power?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be many habits in one power. For when several
things are distinguished in respect of the same thing, if one of them be multiplied, the others
are too. Now habits and powers are distinguished in respect of the same thing, viz. their acts
and objects. Therefore they are multiplied in like manner. Therefore there cannot be many habits
in one power.

Obj. 2: Further, a power is a simple force. Now in one simple subject there cannot be diversity
of accidents; for the subject is the cause of its accidents; and it does not appear how diverse
effects can proceed from one simple cause. Therefore there cannot be many habits in one power.

Obj. 3: Further, just as the body is informed by its shape, so is a power informed by a habit.
But one body cannot be informed at the same time by various shapes. Therefore neither can a
power be informed at the same time by many habits. Therefore several habits cannot be at the
same time in one power.

On the contrary, The intellect is one power; wherein, nevertheless, are the habits of various
sciences.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 49, A. 4), habits are dispositions of a thing that is in
potentiality to something, either to nature, or to operation, which is the end of nature. As
to those habits which are dispositions to nature, it is clear that several can be in one same
subject: since in one subject we may take parts in various ways, according to the various dispositions
of which parts there are various habits. Thus, if we take the humors as being parts of the
human body, according to their disposition in respect of human nature, we have the habit or
disposition of health: while, if we take like parts, such as nerves, bones, and flesh, the
disposition of these in respect of nature is strength or weakness; whereas, if we take the
limbs, i.e. the hands, feet, and so on, the disposition of these in proportion to nature, is
beauty: and thus there are several habits or dispositions in the same subject.

If, however, we speak of those habits that are dispositions to operation, and belong properly
to the powers; thus, again, there may be several habits in one power. The reason for this is
that the subject of a habit is a passive power, as stated above (Q. 51, A. 2): for it is only
an active power that cannot be the subject of a habit, as was clearly shown above (Q. 51, A.
2). Now a passive power is compared to the determinate act of any species, as matter to form:
because, just as matter is determinate to one form by one agent, so, too, is a passive power
determined by the nature of one active object to an act specifically one. Wherefore, just as
several objects can move one passive power, so can one passive power be the subject of several
acts or perfections specifically diverse. Now habits are qualities or forms adhering to a power,
and inclining that power to acts of a determinate species. Consequently several habits, even
as several specifically different acts, can belong to one power.

Reply Obj. 1: Even as in natural things, diversity of species is according to the form, and
diversity of genus, according to matter, as stated in Metaph. v, text. 33 (since things that
differ in matter belong to different genera): so, too, generic diversity of objects entails
a difference of powers (wherefore the Philosopher says in Ethic. vi, 1, that "those objects
that differ generically belong to different departments of the soul"); while specific difference
of objects entails a specific difference of acts, and consequently of habits also. Now things
that differ in genus differ in species, but not vice versa. Wherefore the acts and habits of
different powers differ in species: but it does not follow that different habits are in different
powers, for several can be in one power. And even as several genera may be included in one
genus, and several species be contained in one species; so does it happen that there are several
species of habits and powers.

Reply Obj. 2: Although a power is simple as to its essence, it is multiple virtually, inasmuch
as it extends to many specifically different acts. Consequently there is nothing to prevent
many superficially different habits from being in one power.

Reply Obj. 3: A body is informed by its shape as by its own terminal boundaries: whereas a
habit is not the terminal boundary of a power, but the disposition of a power to an act as
to its ultimate term. Consequently one same power cannot have several acts at the same time,
except in so far as perchance one act is comprised in another; just as neither can a body have
several shapes, save in so far as one shape enters into another, as a three-sided in a four-sided
figure. For the intellect cannot understand several things at the same time actually; and yet
it can know several things at the same time habitually.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 54, Art. 2]

Whether Habits Are Distinguished by Their Objects?

Objection 1: It would seem that habits are not distinguished by their objects. For contraries
differ in species. Now the same habit of science regards contraries: thus medicine regards
the healthy and the unhealthy. Therefore habits are not distinguished by objects specifically
distinct.

Obj. 2: Further, different sciences are different habits. But the same scientific truth belongs
to different sciences: thus both the physicist and the astronomer prove the earth to be round,
as stated in Phys. ii, text. 17. Therefore habits are not distinguished by their objects.

Obj. 3: Further, wherever the act is the same, the object is the same. But the same act can
belong to different habits of virtue, if it be directed to different ends; thus to give money
to anyone, if it be done for God's sake, is an act of charity; while, if it be done in order
to pay a debt, it is an act of justice. Therefore the same object can also belong to different
habits. Therefore diversity of habits does not follow diversity of objects.

On the contrary, Acts differ in species according to the diversity of their objects, as stated
above (Q. 18, A. 5). But habits are dispositions to acts. Therefore habits also are distinguished
according to the diversity of objects.

I answer that, A habit is both a form and a habit. Hence the specific distinction of habits
may be taken in the ordinary way in which forms differ specifically; or according to that mode
of distinction which is proper to habits. Accordingly forms are distinguished from one another
in reference to the diversity of their active principles, since every agent produces its like
in species. Habits, however, imply order to something: and all things that imply order to something,
are distinguished according to the distinction of the things to which they are ordained. Now
a habit is a disposition implying a twofold order: viz. to nature and to an operation consequent
to nature.

Accordingly habits are specifically distinct in respect of three things. First, in respect
of the active principles of such dispositions; secondly, in respect of nature; thirdly, in
respect of specifically different objects, as will appear from what follows.

Reply Obj. 1: In distinguishing powers, or also habits, we must consider the object not in
its material but in its formal aspect, which may differ in species or even in genus. And though
the distinction between specific contraries is a real distinction yet they are both known under
one aspect, since one is known through the other. And consequently in so far as they concur
in the one aspect of cognoscibility, they belong to one cognitive habit.

Reply Obj. 2: The physicist proves the earth to be round by one means, the astronomer by another:
for the latter proves this by means of mathematics, e.g. by the shapes of eclipses, or something
of the sort; while the former proves it by means of physics, e.g. by the movement of heavy
bodies towards the center, and so forth. Now the whole force of a demonstration, which is "a
syllogism producing science," as stated in Poster. i, text. 5, depends on the mean. And consequently
various means are as so many active principles, in respect of which the habits of science are
distinguished.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (Phys. ii, text. 89; Ethic. vii, 8), the end is, in practical
matters, what the principle is in speculative matters. Consequently diversity of ends demands
a diversity of virtues, even as diversity of active principles does. Moreover the ends are
objects of the internal acts, with which, above all, the virtues are concerned, as is evident
from what has been said (Q. 18, A. 6; Q. 19, A. 2, ad 1; Q. 34, A. 4).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 54, Art. 3]

Whether Habits Are Divided into Good and Bad?

Objection 1: It would seem that habits are not divided into good and bad. For good and bad
are contraries. Now the same habit regards contraries, as was stated above (A. 2, Obj. 1).
Therefore habits are not divided into good and bad.

Obj. 2: Further, good is convertible with being; so that, since it is common to all, it cannot
be accounted a specific difference, as the Philosopher declares (Topic. iv). Again, evil, since
it is a privation and a non-being, cannot differentiate any being. Therefore habits cannot
be specifically divided into good and evil.

Obj. 3: Further, there can be different evil habits about one same object; for instance, intemperance
and insensibility about matters of concupiscence: and in like manner there can be several good
habits; for instance, human virtue and heroic or godlike virtue, as the Philosopher clearly
states (Ethic. vii, 1). Therefore, habits are not divided into good and bad.

On the contrary, A good habit is contrary to a bad habit, as virtue to vice. Now contraries
are divided specifically into good and bad habits.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), habits are specifically distinct not only in respect
of their objects and active principles, but also in their relation to nature. Now, this happens
in two ways. First, by reason of their suitableness or unsuitableness to nature. In this way
a good habit is specifically distinct from a bad habit: since a good habit is one which disposes
to an act suitable to the agent's nature, while an evil habit is one which disposes to an act
unsuitable to nature. Thus, acts of virtue are suitable to human nature, since they are according
to reason, whereas acts of vice are discordant from human nature, since they are against reason.
Hence it is clear that habits are distinguished specifically by the difference of good and bad.

Secondly, habits are distinguished in relation to nature, from the fact that one habit disposes
to an act that is suitable to a lower nature, while another habit disposes to an act befitting
a higher nature. And thus human virtue, which disposes to an act befitting human nature, is
distinct from godlike or heroic virtue, which disposes to an act befitting some higher nature.

Reply Obj. 1: The same habit may be about contraries in so far as contraries agree in one common
aspect. Never, however, does it happen that contrary habits are in one species: since contrariety
of habits follows contrariety of aspect. Accordingly habits are divided into good and bad,
namely, inasmuch as one habit is good, and another bad; but not by reason of one habit being
[about] something good, and another about something bad.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not the good which is common to every being, that is a difference constituting
the species of a habit; but some determinate good by reason of suitability to some determinate,
viz. the human, nature. In like manner the evil that constitutes a difference of habits is
not a pure privation, but something determinate repugnant to a determinate nature.

Reply Obj. 3: Several good habits about one same specific thing are distinct in reference to
their suitability to various natures, as stated above. But several bad habits in respect of
one action are distinct in reference to their diverse repugnance to that which is in keeping
with nature: thus, various vices about one same matter are contrary to one virtue.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 54, Art. 4]

Whether One Habit Is Made Up of Many Habits?

Objection 1: It would seem that one habit is made up of many habits. For whatever is engendered,
not at once, but little by little, seems to be made up of several parts. But a habit is engendered,
not at once, but little by little out of several acts, as stated above (Q. 51, A. 3). Therefore
one habit is made up of several.

Obj. 2: Further, a whole is made up of its parts. Now many parts are assigned to one habit:
thus Tully assigns many parts of fortitude, temperance, and other virtues. Therefore one habit
is made up of many.

Obj. 3: Further, one conclusion suffices both for an act and for a habit of scientific knowledge.
But many conclusions belong to but one science, to geometry, for instance, or to arithmetic.
Therefore one habit is made up of many.

On the contrary, A habit, since it is a quality, is a simple form. But nothing simple is made
up of many. Therefore one habit is not made up of many.

I answer that, A habit directed to operation, such as we are chiefly concerned with at present,
is a perfection of a power. Now every perfection should be in proportion with that which it
perfects. Hence, just as a power, while it is one, extends to many things, in so far as they
have something in common, i.e. some general objective aspect, so also a habit extends to many
things, in so far as they are related to one, for instance, to some specific objective aspect,
or to one nature, or to one principle, as was clearly stated above (AA. 2, 3).

If then we consider a habit as to the extent of its object, we shall find a certain multiplicity
therein. But since this multiplicity is directed to one thing, on which the habit is chiefly
intent, hence it is that a habit is a simple quality, not composed to several habits, even
though it extend to many things. For a habit does not extend to many things save in relation
to one, whence it derives its unity.

Reply Obj. 1: That a habit is engendered little by little, is due, not to one part being engendered
after another, but to the fact that the subject does not acquire all at once a firm and difficultly
changeable disposition; and also to the fact that it begins by being imperfectly in the subject,
and is gradually perfected. The same applies to other qualities.

Reply Obj. 2: The parts which are assigned to each cardinal virtue, are not integral parts
that combine to form a whole; but subjective or potential parts, as we shall explain further
on (Q. 57, A. 6, ad 4; II-II, Q. 48).

Reply Obj. 3: In any science, he who acquires, by demonstration, scientific knowledge of one
conclusion, has the habit indeed, yet imperfectly. And when he obtains, by demonstration, the
scientific knowledge of another conclusion, no additional habit is engendered in him: but the
habit which was in him previously is perfected, forasmuch as it has increased in extent; because
the conclusions and demonstrations of one science are coordinate, and one flows from another.

TREATISE ON HABITS IN PARTICULAR (QQ. 55-89): GOOD HABITS, i.e., VIRTUES (QQ. 55-70)

QUESTION 55

OF THE VIRTUES, AS TO THEIR ESSENCE (In Four Articles)

We come now to the consideration of habits specifically. And since habits, as we have said
(Q. 54, A. 3), are divided into good and bad, we must speak in the first place of good habits,
which are virtues, and of other matters connected with them, namely the Gifts, Beatitudes and
Fruits; in the second place, of bad habits, namely of vices and sins. Now five things must
be considered about virtues: (1) the essence of virtue; (2) its subject; (3) the division of
virtue; (4) the cause of virtue; (5) certain properties of virtue.

Under the first head, there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether human virtue is a habit?

(2) Whether it is an operative habit?

(3) Whether it is a good habit?

(4) Of the definition of virtue.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 55, Art. 1]

Whether Human Virtue Is a Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that human virtue is not a habit: For virtue is "the limit of power"
(De Coelo i, text. 116). But the limit of anything is reducible to the genus of that of which
it is the limit; as a point is reducible to the genus of line. Therefore virtue is reducible
to the genus of power, and not to the genus of habit.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. ii) [*Retract. ix; cf. De Lib. Arb. ii, 19] that
"virtue is good use of free-will." But use of free-will is an act. Therefore virtue is not
a habit, but an act.

Obj. 3: Further, we do not merit by our habits, but by our actions: otherwise a man would merit
continually, even while asleep. But we do merit by our virtues. Therefore virtues are not habits,
but acts.

Obj. 4: Further, Augustine says (De Moribus Eccl. xv) that "virtue is the order of love," and
(QQ. lxxxiii, qu. 30) that "the ordering which is called virtue consists in enjoying what we
ought to enjoy, and using what we ought to use." Now order, or ordering, denominates either
an action or a relation. Therefore virtue is not a habit, but an action or a relation.

Obj. 5: Further, just as there are human virtues, so are there natural virtues. But natural
virtues are not habits, but powers. Neither therefore are human virtues habits.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Categor. vi) that science and virtue are habits.

I answer that, Virtue denotes a certain perfection of a power. Now a thing's perfection is
considered chiefly in regard to its end. But the end of power is act. Wherefore power is said
to be perfect, according as it is determinate to its act.

Now there are some powers which of themselves are determinate to their acts; for instance,
the active natural powers. And therefore these natural powers are in themselves called virtues.
But the rational powers, which are proper to man, are not determinate to one particular action,
but are inclined indifferently to many: and they are determinate to acts by means of habits,
as is clear from what we have said above (Q. 49, A. 4). Therefore human virtues are habits.

Reply Obj. 1: Sometimes we give the name of a virtue to that to which the virtue is directed,
namely, either to its object, or to its act: for instance, we give the name Faith, to that
which we believe, or to the act of believing, as also to the habit by which we believe. When
therefore we say that "virtue is the limit of power," virtue is taken for the object of virtue.
For the furthest point to which a power can reach, is said to be its virtue; for instance,
if a man can carry a hundredweight and not more, his virtue [*In English we should say 'strength,'
which is the original signification of the Latin 'virtus': thus we speak of an engine being
so many horse-power, to indicate its 'strength'] is put at a hundredweight, and not at sixty.
But the objection takes virtue as being essentially the limit of power.

Reply Obj. 2: Good use of free-will is said to be a virtue, in the same sense as above (ad
1); that is to say, because it is that to which virtue is directed as to its proper act. For
the act of virtue is nothing else than the good use of free-will.

Reply Obj. 3: We are said to merit by something in two ways. First, as by merit itself, just
as we are said to run by running; and thus we merit by acts. Secondly, we are said to merit
by something as by the principle whereby we merit, as we are said to run by the motive power;
and thus are we said to merit by virtues and habits.

Reply Obj. 4: When we say that virtue is the order or ordering of love, we refer to the end
to which virtue is ordered: because in us love is set in order by virtue.

Reply Obj. 5: Natural powers are of themselves determinate to one act: not so the rational
powers. And so there is no comparison, as we have said.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 55, Art. 2]

Whether Human Virtue Is an Operative Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is not essential to human virtue to be an operative habit.
For Tully says (Tuscul. iv) that as health and beauty belong to the body, so virtue belongs
to the soul. But health and beauty are not operative habits. Therefore neither is virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, in natural things we find virtue not only in reference to act, but also in
reference to being: as is clear from the Philosopher (De Coelo i), since some have a virtue
to be always, while some have a virtue to be not always, but at some definite time. Now as
natural virtue is in natural things, so is human virtue in rational beings. Therefore also
human virtue is referred not only to act, but also to being.

Obj. Now the best thing to which man needs to be disposed by virtue is God Himself, as Augustine
proves (De Moribus Eccl. 3, 6, 14) to Whom the soul is disposed by being made like to Him.
Therefore it seems that virtue is a quality of the soul in reference to God, likening it, as
it were, to Him; and not in reference to operation. It is not, therefore, an operative habit.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 6) says that "virtue of a thing is that which
makes its work good."

I answer that, Virtue, from the very nature of the word, implies some perfection of power,
as we have said above (A. 1). Wherefore, since power [*The one Latin word potentia is rendered
'potentiality' in the first case, and 'power' in the second] is of two kinds, namely, power
in reference to being, and power in reference to act; the perfection of each of these is called
virtue. But power in reference to being is on the part of matter, which is potential being,
whereas power in reference to act, is on the part of the form, which is the principle of action,
since everything acts in so far as it is in act.

Now man is so constituted that the body holds the place of matter, the soul that of form. The
body, indeed, man has in common with other animals; and the same is to be said of the forces
which are common to the soul and body: and only those forces which are proper to the soul,
namely, the rational forces, belong to man alone. And therefore, human virtue, of which we
are speaking now, cannot belong to the body, but belongs only to that which is proper to the
soul. Wherefore human virtue does not imply reference to being, but rather to act. Consequently
it is essential to human virtue to be an operative habit.

Reply Obj. 1: Mode of action follows on the disposition of the agent: for such as a thing is,
such is its act. And therefore, since virtue is the principle of some kind of operation, there
must needs pre-exist in the operator in respect of virtue some corresponding disposition. Now
virtue causes an ordered operation. Therefore virtue itself is an ordered disposition of the
soul, in so far as, to wit, the powers of the soul are in some way ordered to one another,
and to that which is outside. Hence virtue, inasmuch as it is a suitable disposition of the
soul, is like health and beauty, which are suitable dispositions of the body. But this does
not hinder virtue from being a principle of operation.

Reply Obj. 2: Virtue which is referred to being is not proper to man; but only that virtue
which is referred to works of reason, which are proper to man.

Reply Obj. 3: As God's substance is His act, the highest likeness of man to God is in respect
of some operation. Wherefore, as we have said above (Q. 3, A. 2), happiness or bliss by which
man is made most perfectly conformed to God, and which is the end of human life, consists in
an operation.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 55, Art. 3]

Whether Human Virtue Is a Good Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is not essential to virtue that it should be a good habit.
For sin is always taken in a bad sense. But there is a virtue even of sin; according to 1 Cor.
15:56: "The virtue [Douay: 'strength'] of sin is the Law." Therefore virtue is not always a
good habit.

Obj. 2: Further, Virtue corresponds to power. But power is not only referred to good, but also
to evil: according to Isa. 5: "Woe to you that are mighty to drink wine, and stout men at drunkenness."
Therefore virtue also is referred to good and evil.

Obj. 3: Further, according to the Apostle (2 Cor. 12:9): "Virtue [Douay: 'power'] is made perfect
in infirmity." But infirmity is an evil. Therefore virtue is referred not only to good, but
also to evil.

I answer that, As we have said above (A. 1), virtue implies a perfection of power: wherefore
the virtue of a thing is fixed by the limit of its power (De Coelo i). Now the limit of any
power must needs be good: for all evil implies defect; wherefore Dionysius says (Div. Hom.
ii) that every evil is a weakness. And for this reason the virtue of a thing must be regarded
in reference to good. Therefore human virtue which is an operative habit, is a good habit,
productive of good works.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as bad things are said metaphorically to be perfect, so are they said to
be good: for we speak of a perfect thief or robber; and of a good thief or robber, as the Philosopher
explains (Metaph. v, text. 21). In this way therefore virtue is applied to evil things: so
that the "virtue" of sin is said to be law, in so far as occasionally sin is aggravated through
the law, so as to attain to the limit of its possibility.

Reply Obj. 2: The evil of drunkenness and excessive drink, consists in a falling away from
the order of reason. Now it happens that, together with this falling away from reason, some
lower power is perfect in reference to that which belongs to its own kind, even in direct opposition
to reason, or with some falling away therefrom. But the perfection of that power, since it
is compatible with a falling away from reason, cannot be called a human virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: Reason is shown to be so much the more perfect, according as it is able to overcome
or endure more easily the weakness of the body and of the lower powers. And therefore human
virtue, which is attributed to reason, is said to be "made perfect in infirmity," not of the
reason indeed, but of the body and of the lower powers.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 55, Art. 4]

Whether Virtue Is Suitably Defined?

Objection 1: It would seem that the definition, usually given, of virtue, is not suitable,
to wit: "Virtue is a good quality of the mind, by which we live righteously, of which no one
can make bad use, which God works in us, without us." For virtue is man's goodness, since virtue
it is that makes its subject good. But goodness does not seem to be good, as neither is whiteness
white. It is therefore unsuitable to describe virtue as a "good quality."

Obj. 2: Further, no difference is more common than its genus; since it is that which divides
the genus. But good is more common than quality, since it is convertible with being. Therefore
"good" should not be put in the definition of virtue, as a difference of quality.

Obj. 3: Further, as Augustine says (De Trin. xii, 3): "When we come across anything that is
not common to us and the beasts of the field, it is something appertaining to the mind." But
there are virtues even of the irrational parts; as the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 10). Every
virtue, therefore, is not a good quality "of the mind."

Obj. 4: Further, righteousness seems to belong to justice; whence the righteous are called
just. But justice is a species of virtue. It is therefore unsuitable to put "righteous" in
the definition of virtue, when we say that virtue is that "by which we live righteously."

Obj. 5: Further, whoever is proud of a thing, makes bad use of it. But many are proud of virtue,
for Augustine says in his Rule, that "pride lies in wait for good works in order to slay them."
It is untrue, therefore, "that no one can make bad use of virtue."

Obj. 6: Further, man is justified by virtue. But Augustine commenting on John 15:11: "He shall
do greater things than these," says [*Tract. xxvii in Joan.: Serm. xv de Verb. Ap. 11]: "He
who created thee without thee, will not justify thee without thee." It is therefore unsuitable
to say that "God works virtue in us, without us."

On the contrary, We have the authority of Augustine from whose words this definition is gathered,
and principally in De Libero Arbitrio ii, 19.

I answer that, This definition comprises perfectly the whole essential notion of virtue. For
the perfect essential notion of anything is gathered from all its causes. Now the above definition
comprises all the causes of virtue. For the formal cause of virtue, as of everything, is gathered
from its genus and difference, when it is defined as "a good quality": for "quality" is the
genus of virtue, and the difference, "good." But the definition would be more suitable if for
"quality" we substitute "habit," which is the proximate genus.

Now virtue has no matter "out of which" it is formed, as neither has any other accident; but
it has matter "about which" it is concerned, and matter "in which" it exists, namely, the subject.
The matter about which virtue is concerned is its object, and this could not be included in
the above definition, because the object fixes the virtue to a certain species, and here we
are giving the definition of virtue in general. And so for material cause we have the subject,
which is mentioned when we say that virtue is a good quality "of the mind."

The end of virtue, since it is an operative habit, is operation. But it must be observed that
some operative habits are always referred to evil, as vicious habits: others are sometimes
referred to good, sometimes to evil; for instance, opinion is referred both to the true and
to the untrue: whereas virtue is a habit which is always referred to good: and so the distinction
of virtue from those habits which are always referred to evil, is expressed in the words "by
which we live righteously": and its distinction from those habits which are sometimes directed
unto good, sometimes unto evil, in the words, "of which no one makes bad use."

Lastly, God is the efficient cause of infused virtue, to which this definition applies; and
this is expressed in the words "which God works in us without us." If we omit this phrase,
the remainder of the definition will apply to all virtues in general, whether acquired or infused.

Reply Obj. 1: That which is first seized by the intellect is being: wherefore everything that
we apprehend we consider as being, and consequently as one, and as good, which are convertible
with being. Wherefore we say that essence is being and is one and is good; and that oneness
is being and one and good: and in like manner goodness. But this is not the case with specific
forms, as whiteness and health; for everything that we apprehend, is not apprehended with the
notion of white and healthy. We must, however, observe that, as accidents and non-subsistent
forms are called beings, not as if they themselves had being, but because things are by them;
so also are they called good or one, not by some distinct goodness or oneness, but because
by them something is good or one. So also is virtue called good, because by it something is good.

Reply Obj. 2: Good, which is put in the definition of virtue, is not good in general which
is convertible with being, and which extends further than quality, but the good as fixed by
reason, with regard to which Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) "that the good of the soul is to
be in accord with reason."

Reply Obj. 3: Virtue cannot be in the irrational part of the soul, except in so far as this
participates in the reason (Ethic. i, 13). And therefore reason, or the mind, is the proper
subject of virtue.

Reply Obj. 4: Justice has a righteousness of its own by which it puts those outward things
right which come into human use, and are the proper matter of justice, as we shall show further
on (Q. 60, A. 2; II-II, Q. 58, A. 8). But the righteousness which denotes order to a due end
and to the Divine law, which is the rule of the human will, as stated above (Q. 19, A. 4),
is common to all virtues.

Reply Obj. 5: One can make bad use of a virtue objectively, for instance by having evil thoughts
about a virtue, e.g. by hating it, or by being proud of it: but one cannot make bad use of
virtue as principle of action, so that an act of virtue be evil.

Reply Obj. 6: Infused virtue is caused in us by God without any action on our part, but not
without our consent. This is the sense of the words, "which God works in us without us." As
to those things which are done by us, God causes them in us, yet not without action on our
part, for He works in every will and in every nature.

QUESTION 56

OF THE SUBJECT OF VIRTUE (In Six Articles)

We now have to consider the subject of virtue, about which there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the subject of virtue is a power of the soul?

(2) Whether one virtue can be in several powers?

(3) Whether the intellect can be the subject of virtue?

(4) Whether the irascible and concupiscible faculties can be the subject of virtue?

(5) Whether the sensitive powers of apprehension can be the subject of virtue?

(6) Whether the will can be the subject of virtue?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 56, Art. 1]

Whether the Subject of Virtue Is a Power of the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that the subject of virtue is not a power of the soul. For Augustine
says (De Lib. Arb. ii, 19) that "virtue is that by which we live righteously." But we live
by the essence of the soul, and not by a power of the soul. Therefore virtue is not a power,
but in the essence of the soul.

Obj. But as work is set up by power, so he that has a virtue is set up by the essence of the
soul. Therefore virtue does not belong to the power, any more than to the essence of the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, power is in the second species of quality. But virtue is a quality, as we
have said above (Q. 55, A. 4): and quality is not the subject of quality. Therefore a power
of the soul is not the subject of virtue.

On the contrary, "Virtue is the limit of power" (De Coelo ii). But the limit is in that of
which it is the limit. Therefore virtue is in a power of the soul.

I answer that, It can be proved in three ways that virtue belongs to a power of the soul. First,
from the notion of the very essence of virtue, which implies perfection of a power; for perfection
is in that which it perfects. Secondly, from the fact that virtue is an operative habit, as
we have said above (Q. 55, A. 2): for all operation proceeds from the soul through a power.
Thirdly, from the fact that virtue disposes to that which is best: for the best is the end,
which is either a thing's operation, or something acquired by an operation proceeding from
the thing's power. Therefore a power of the soul is the subject of virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: "To live" may be taken in two ways. Sometimes it is taken for the very existence
of the living thing: in this way it belongs to the essence of the soul, which is the principle
of existence in the living thing. But sometimes "to live" is taken for the operation of the
living thing: in this sense, by virtue we live righteously, inasmuch as by virtue we perform
righteous actions.

Reply Obj. 2: Good is either the end, or something referred to the end. And therefore, since
the good of the worker consists in the work, this fact also, that virtue makes the worker good,
is referred to the work, and consequently, to the power.

Reply Obj. 3: One accident is said to be the subject of another, not as though one accident
could uphold another; but because one accident inheres to substance by means of another, as
color to the body by means of the surface; so that surface is said to be the subject of color.
In this way a power of the soul is said to be the subject of virtue.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 56, Art. 2]

Whether One Virtue Can Be in Several Powers?

Objection 1: It would seem that one virtue can be in several powers. For habits are known by
their acts. But one act proceeds in various way from several powers: thus walking proceeds
from the reason as directing, from the will as moving, and from the motive power as executing.
Therefore also one habit can be in several powers.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 4) that three things are required for virtue,
namely: "to know, to will, and to work steadfastly." But "to know" belongs to the intellect,
and "to will" belongs to the will. Therefore virtue can be in several powers.

Obj. 3: Further, prudence is in the reason since it is "the right reason of things to be done"
(Ethic. vi, 5). And it is also in the will: for it cannot exist together with a perverse will
(Ethic. vi, 12). Therefore one virtue can be in two powers.

On the contrary, The subject of virtue is a power of the soul. But the same accident cannot
be in several subjects. Therefore one virtue cannot be in several powers of the soul.

I answer that, It happens in two ways that one thing is subjected in two. First, so that it
is in both on an equal footing. In this way it is impossible for one virtue to be in two powers:
since diversity of powers follows the generic conditions of the objects, while diversity of
habits follows the specific conditions thereof: and so wherever there is diversity of powers,
there is diversity of habits; but not vice versa. In another way one thing can be subjected
in two or more, not on an equal footing, but in a certain order. And thus one virtue can belong
to several powers, so that it is in one chiefly, while it extends to others by a kind of diffusion,
or by way of a disposition, in so far as one power is moved by another, and one power receives
from another.

Reply Obj. 1: One act cannot belong to several powers equally, and in the same degree; but
only from different points of view, and in various degrees.

Reply Obj. 2: "To know" is a condition required for moral virtue, inasmuch as moral virtue
works according to right reason. But moral virtue is essentially in the appetite.

Reply Obj. 3: Prudence is really subjected in reason: but it presupposes as its principle the
rectitude of the will, as we shall see further on (A. 3; Q. 57, A. 4).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 56, Art. 3]

Whether the Intellect Can Be the Subject of Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that the intellect is not the subject of virtue. For Augustine says
(De Moribus Eccl. xv) that all virtue is love. But the subject of love is not the intellect,
but the appetitive power alone. Therefore no virtue is in the intellect.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue is referred to good, as is clear from what has been said above (Q.
55, A. 3). Now good is not the object of the intellect, but of the appetitive power. Therefore
the subject of virtue is not the intellect, but the appetitive power.

Obj. 3: Further, virtue is that "which makes its possessor good," as the Philosopher says (Ethic.
ii, 6). But the habit which perfects the intellect does not make its possessor good: since
a man is not said to be a good man on account of his science or his art. Therefore the intellect
is not the subject of virtue.

On the contrary, The mind is chiefly called the intellect. But the subject of virtue is the
mind, as is clear from the definition, above given, of virtue (Q. 55, A. 4). Therefore the
intellect is the subject of virtue.

I answer that, As we have said above (Q. 55, A. 3), a virtue is a habit by which we work well.
Now a habit may be directed to a good act in two ways. First, in so far as by the habit a man
acquires an aptness to a good act; for instance, by the habit of grammar man has the aptness
to speak correctly. But grammar does not make a man always speak correctly: for a grammarian
may be guilty of a barbarism or make a solecism: and the case is the same with other sciences
and arts. Secondly, a habit may confer not only aptness to act, but also the right use of that
aptness: for instance, justice not only gives man the prompt will to do just actions, but also
makes him act justly.

And since good, and, in like manner, being, is said of a thing simply, in respect, not of what
it is potentially, but of what it is actually: therefore from having habits of the latter sort,
man is said simply to do good, and to be good; for instance, because he is just, or temperate;
and in like manner as regards other such virtues. And since virtue is that "which makes its
possessor good, and his work good likewise," these latter habits are called virtuous simply:
because they make the work to be actually good, and the subject good simply. But the first
kind of habits are not called virtues simply: because they do not make the work good except
in regard to a certain aptness, nor do they make their possessor good simply. For through being
gifted in science or art, a man is said to be good, not simply, but relatively; for instance,
a good grammarian or a good smith. And for this reason science and art are often divided against
virtue; while at other times they are called virtues (Ethic. vi, 2).

Hence the subject of a habit which is called a virtue in a relative sense, can be the intellect,
and not only the practical intellect, but also the speculative, without any reference to the
will: for thus the Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 3) holds that science, wisdom and understanding,
and also art, are intellectual virtues. But the subject of a habit which is called a virtue
simply, can only be the will, or some power in so far as it is moved by the will. And the reason
of this is, that the will moves to their acts all those other powers that are in some way rational,
as we have said above (Q. 9, A. 1; Q. 17, AA. 1, 5; I, Q. 82, A. 4): and therefore if man do
well actually, this is because he has a good will. Therefore the virtue which makes a man to
do well actually, and not merely to have the aptness to do well, must be either in the will
itself; or in some power as moved by the will.

Now it happens that the intellect is moved by the will, just as are the other powers: for a
man considers something actually, because he wills to do so. And therefore the intellect, in
so far as it is subordinate to the will, can be the subject of virtue absolutely so called.
And in this way the speculative intellect, or the reason, is the subject of Faith: for the
intellect is moved by the command of the will to assent to what is of faith: for "no man believeth,
unless he will" [*Augustine: Tract. xxvi in Joan.]. But the practical intellect is the subject
of prudence. For since prudence is the right reason of things to be done, it is a condition
thereof that man be rightly disposed in regard to the principles of this reason of things to
be done, that is in regard to their ends, to which man is rightly disposed by the rectitude
of the will, just as to the principles of speculative truth he is rightly disposed by the natural
light of the active intellect. And therefore as the subject of science, which is the right
reason of speculative truths, is the speculative intellect in its relation to the active intellect,
so the subject of prudence is the practical intellect in its relation to the right will.

Reply Obj. 1: The saying of Augustine is to be understood of virtue simply so called: not that
every virtue is love simply: but that it depends in some way on love, in so far as it depends
on the will, whose first movement consists in love, as we have said above (Q. 25, AA. 1, 2,
3; Q. 27, A. 4; I, Q. 20, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 2: The good of each thing is its end: and therefore, as truth is the end of the
intellect, so to know truth is the good act of the intellect. Whence the habit, which perfects
the intellect in regard to the knowledge of truth, whether speculative or practical, is a virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection considers virtue simply so called.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 56, Art. 4]

Whether the Irascible and Concupiscible Powers Are the Subject of Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that the irascible and concupiscible powers cannot be the subject
of virtue. For these powers are common to us and dumb animals. But we are now speaking of virtue
as proper to man, since for this reason it is called human virtue. It is therefore impossible
for human virtue to be in the irascible and concupiscible powers which are parts of the sensitive
appetite, as we have said in the First Part (Q. 81, A. 2).

Obj. 2: Further, the sensitive appetite is a power which makes use of a corporeal organ. But
the good of virtue cannot be in man's body: for the Apostle says (Rom. 7): "I know that good
does not dwell in my flesh." Therefore the sensitive appetite cannot be the subject of virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine proves (De Moribus Eccl. v) that virtue is not in the body but in
the soul, for the reason that the body is ruled by the soul: wherefore it is entirely due to
his soul that a man make good use of his body: "For instance, if my coachman, through obedience
to my orders, guides well the horses which he is driving; this is all due to me." But just
as the soul rules the body, so also does the reason rule the sensitive appetite. Therefore
that the irascible and concupiscible powers are rightly ruled, is entirely due to the rational
powers. Now "virtue is that by which we live rightly," as we have said above (Q. 55, A. 4).
Therefore virtue is not in the irascible and concupiscible powers, but only in the rational powers.

Obj. 4: Further, "the principal act of moral virtue is choice" (Ethic. viii, 13). Now choice
is not an act of the irascible and concupiscible powers, but of the rational power, as we have
said above (Q. 13, A. 2). Therefore moral virtue is not in the irascible and concupiscible
powers, but in the reason.

On the contrary, Fortitude is assigned to the irascible power, and temperance to the concupiscible
power. Whence the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 10) says that "these virtues belong to the irrational
part of the soul."

I answer that, The irascible and concupiscible powers can be considered in two ways. First,
in themselves, in so far as they are parts of the sensitive appetite: and in this way they
are not competent to be the subject of virtue. Secondly, they can be considered as participating
in the reason, from the fact that they have a natural aptitude to obey reason. And thus the
irascible or concupiscible power can be the subject of human virtue: for, in so far as it participates
in the reason, it is the principle of a human act. And to these powers we must needs assign
virtues.

For it is clear that there are some virtues in the irascible and concupiscible powers. Because
an act, which proceeds from one power according as it is moved by another power, cannot be
perfect, unless both powers be well disposed to the act: for instance, the act of a craftsman
cannot be successful unless both the craftsman and his instrument be well disposed to act.
Therefore in the matter of the operations of the irascible and concupiscible powers, according
as they are moved by reason, there must needs be some habit perfecting in respect of acting
well, not only the reason, but also the irascible and concupiscible powers. And since the good
disposition of the power which moves through being moved, depends on its conformity with the
power that moves it: therefore the virtue which is in the irascible and concupiscible powers
is nothing else but a certain habitual conformity of these powers to reason.

Reply Obj. 1: The irascible and concupiscible powers considered in themselves, as parts of
the sensitive appetite, are common to us and dumb animals. But in so far as they are rational
by participation, and are obedient to the reason, they are proper to man. And in this way they
can be the subject of human virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as human flesh has not of itself the good of virtue, but is made the instrument
of a virtuous act, inasmuch as being moved by reason, we "yield our members to serve justice";
so also, the irascible and concupiscible powers, of themselves indeed, have not the good of
virtue, but rather the infection of the fomes: whereas, inasmuch as they are in conformity
with reason, the good of reason is begotten in them.

Reply Obj. 3: The body is ruled by the soul, and the irascible and concupiscible powers by
the reason, but in different ways. For the body obeys the soul blindly without any contradiction,
in those things in which it has a natural aptitude to be moved by the soul: whence the Philosopher
says (Polit. i, 3) that the "soul rules the body with a despotic command" as the master rules
his slave: wherefore the entire movement of the body is referred to the soul. For this reason
virtue is not in the body, but in the soul. But the irascible and concupiscible powers do not
obey the reason blindly; on the contrary, they have their own proper movements, by which, at
times, they go against reason, whence the Philosopher says (Polit. i, 3) that the "reason rules
the irascible and concupiscible powers by a political command" such as that by which free men
are ruled, who have in some respects a will of their own. And for this reason also must there
be some virtues in the irascible and concupiscible powers, by which these powers are well disposed
to act.

Reply Obj. 4: In choice there are two things, namely, the intention of the end, and this belongs
to the moral virtue; and the preferential choice of that which is unto the end, and this belongs
to prudence (Ethic. vi, 2, 5). But that the irascible and concupiscible powers have a right
intention of the end in regard to the passions of the soul, is due to the good disposition
of these powers. And therefore those moral virtues which are concerned with the passions are
in the irascible and concupiscible powers, but prudence is in the reason.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 56, Art. 5]

Whether the Sensitive Powers of Apprehension Are the Subject of Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is possible for virtue to be in the interior sensitive powers
of apprehension. For the sensitive appetite can be the subject of virtue, in so far as it obeys
reason. But the interior sensitive powers of apprehension obey reason: for the powers of imagination,
of cogitation, and of memory [*Cf. I, Q. 78, A. 4] act at the command of reason. Therefore
in these powers there can be virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, as the rational appetite, which is the will, can be hindered or helped in
its act, by the sensitive appetite, so also can the intellect or reason be hindered or helped
by the powers mentioned above. As, therefore, there can be virtue in the interior powers of
appetite, so also can there be virtue in the interior powers of apprehension.

Obj. 3: Further, prudence is a virtue, of which Cicero (De Invent. Rhetor. ii) says that memory
is a part. Therefore also in the power of memory there can be a virtue: and in like manner,
in the other interior sensitive powers of apprehension.

On the contrary, All virtues are either intellectual or moral (Ethic. ii, 1). Now all the moral
virtues are in the appetite; while the intellectual virtues are in the intellect or reason,
as is clear from Ethic. vi, 1. Therefore there is no virtue in the interior sensitive powers
of apprehension.

I answer that, In the interior sensitive powers of apprehension there are some habits. And
this is made clear principally from what the Philosopher says (De Memoria ii), that "in remembering
one thing after another, we become used to it; and use is a second nature." Now a habit of
use is nothing else than a habit acquired by use, which is like unto nature. Wherefore Tully
says of virtue in his Rhetoric that "it is a habit like a second nature in accord with reason."
Yet, in man, that which he acquires by use, in his memory and other sensitive powers of apprehension,
is not a habit properly so called, but something annexed to the habits of the intellective
faculty, as we have said above (Q. 50, A. 4, ad 3).

Nevertheless even if there be habits in such powers, they cannot be virtues. For virtue is
a perfect habit, by which it never happens that anything but good is done: and so virtue must
needs be in that power which consummates the good act. But the knowledge of truth is not consummated
in the sensitive powers of apprehension: for such powers prepare the way to the intellective
knowledge. And therefore in these powers there are none of the virtues, by which we know truth:
these are rather in the intellect or reason.

Reply Obj. 1: The sensitive appetite is related to the will, which is the rational appetite,
through being moved by it. And therefore the act of the appetitive power is consummated in
the sensitive appetite: and for this reason the sensitive appetite is the subject of virtue.
Whereas the sensitive powers of apprehension are related to the intellect rather through moving
it; for the reason that the phantasms are related to the intellective soul, as colors to sight
(De Anima iii, text. 18). And therefore the act of knowledge is terminated in the intellect;
and for this reason the cognoscitive virtues are in the intellect itself, or the reason.

And thus is made clear the Reply to the Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: Memory is not a part of prudence, as species is of a genus, as though memory
were a virtue properly so called: but one of the conditions required for prudence is a good
memory; so that, in a fashion, it is after the manner of an integral part.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 56, Art. 6]

Whether the Will Can Be the Subject of Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that the will is not the subject of virtue. Because no habit is
required for that which belongs to a power by reason of its very nature. But since the will
is in the reason, it is of the very essence of the will, according to the Philosopher (De Anima
iii, text. 42), to tend to that which is good, according to reason. And to this good every
virtue is ordered, since everything naturally desires its own proper good; for virtue, as Tully
says in his Rhetoric, is a "habit like a second nature in accord with reason." Therefore the
will is not the subject of virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, every virtue is either intellectual or moral (Ethic. i, 13; ii, 1). But intellectual
virtue is subjected in the intellect and reason, and not in the will: while moral virtue is
subjected in the irascible and concupiscible powers which are rational by participation. Therefore
no virtue is subjected in the will.

Obj. 3: Further, all human acts, to which virtues are ordained, are voluntary. If therefore
there be a virtue in the will in respect of some human acts, in like manner there will be a
virtue in the will in respect of all human acts. Either, therefore, there will be no virtue
in any other power, or there will be two virtues ordained to the same act, which seems unreasonable.
Therefore the will cannot be the subject of virtue.

On the contrary, Greater perfection is required in the mover than in the moved. But the will
moves the irascible and concupiscible powers. Much more therefore should there be virtue in
the will than in the irascible and concupiscible powers.

I answer that, Since the habit perfects the power in reference to act, then does the power
need a habit perfecting it unto doing well, which habit is a virtue, when the power's own proper
nature does not suffice for the purpose.

Now the proper nature of a power is seen in its relation to its object. Since, therefore, as
we have said above (Q. 19, A. 3), the object of the will is the good of reason proportionate
to the will, in respect of this the will does not need a virtue perfecting it. But if man's
will is confronted with a good that exceeds its capacity, whether as regards the whole human
species, such as Divine good, which transcends the limits of human nature, or as regards the
individual, such as the good of one's neighbor, then does the will need virtue. And therefore
such virtues as those which direct man's affections to God or to his neighbor are subjected
in the will, as charity, justice, and such like.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection is true of those virtues which are ordained to the willer's own
good; such as temperance and fortitude, which are concerned with the human passions, and the
like, as is clear from what we have said (Q. 35, A. 6).

Reply Obj. 2: Not only the irascible and concupiscible powers are rational by participation
but "the appetitive power altogether," i.e. in its entirety (Ethic. i, 13). Now the will is
included in the appetitive power. And therefore whatever virtue is in the will must be a moral
virtue, unless it be theological, as we shall see later on (Q. 62, A. 3).

Reply Obj. 3: Some virtues are directed to the good of moderated passion, which is the proper
good of this or that man: and in these cases there is no need for virtue in the will, for the
nature of the power suffices for the purpose, as we have said. This need exists only in the
case of virtues which are directed to some extrinsic good.

QUESTION 57

OF THE INTELLECTUAL VIRTUES (In Six Articles)

We now have to consider the various kinds of virtue: and (1) the intellectual virtues; (2)
the moral virtues; (3) the theological virtues. Concerning the first there are six points of
inquiry:

(1) Whether habits of the speculative intellect are virtues?

(2) Whether they are three, namely, wisdom, science and understanding?

(3) Whether the intellectual habit, which is art, is a virtue?

(4) Whether prudence is a virtue distinct from art?

(5) Whether prudence is a virtue necessary to man?

(6) Whether "eubulia," "synesis" and "gnome" are virtues annexed to prudence?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 57, Art. 1]

Whether the Habits of the Speculative Intellect Are Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that the habits of the speculative intellect are not virtues. For
virtue is an operative habit, as we have said above (Q. 55, A. 2). But speculative habits are
not operative: for speculative matter is distinct from practical, i.e. operative matter. Therefore
the habits of the speculative intellect are not virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue is about those things by which man is made happy or blessed: for "happiness
is the reward of virtue" (Ethic. i, 9). Now intellectual habits do not consider human acts
or other human goods, by which man acquires happiness, but rather things pertaining to nature
or to God. Therefore such like habits cannot be called virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, science is a speculative habit. But science and virtue are distinct from one
another as genera which are not subalternate, as the Philosopher proves in Topic. iv. Therefore
speculative habits are not virtues.

On the contrary, The speculative habits alone consider necessary things which cannot be otherwise
than they are. Now the Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 1) places certain intellectual virtues in that
part of the soul which considers necessary things that cannot be otherwise than they are. Therefore
the habits of the speculative intellect are virtues.

I answer that, Since every virtue is ordained to some good, as stated above (Q. 55, A. 3),
a habit, as we have already observed (Q. 56, A. 3), may be called a virtue for two reasons:
first, because it confers aptness in doing good; secondly, because besides aptness, it confers
the right use of it. The latter condition, as above stated (Q. 55, A. 3), belongs to those
habits alone which affect the appetitive part of the soul: since it is the soul's appetitive
power that puts all the powers and habits to their respective uses.

Since, then, the habits of the speculative intellect do not perfect the appetitive part, nor
affect it in any way, but only the intellective part; they may indeed be called virtues in
so far as they confer aptness for a good work, viz. the consideration of truth (since this
is the good work of the intellect): yet they are not called virtues in the second way, as though
they conferred the right use of a power or habit. For if a man possess a habit of speculative
science, it does not follow that he is inclined to make use of it, but he is made able to consider
the truth in those matters of which he has scientific knowledge: that he make use of the knowledge
which he has, is due to the motion of his will. Consequently a virtue which perfects the will,
as charity or justice, confers the right use of these speculative habits. And in this way too
there can be merit in the acts of these habits, if they be done out of charity: thus Gregory
says (Moral. vi) that the "contemplative life has greater merit than the active life."

Reply Obj. 1: Work is of two kinds, exterior and interior. Accordingly the practical or active
faculty which is contrasted with the speculative faculty, is concerned with exterior work,
to which the speculative habit is not ordained. Yet it is ordained to the interior act of the
intellect which is to consider the truth. And in this way it is an operative habit.

Reply Obj. 2: Virtue is about certain things in two ways. In the first place a virtue is about
its object. And thus these speculative virtues are not about those things whereby man is made
happy; except perhaps, in so far as the word "whereby" indicates the efficient cause or object
of complete happiness, i.e. God, Who is the supreme object of contemplation. Secondly, a virtue
is said to be about its acts: and in this sense the intellectual virtues are about those things
whereby a man is made happy; both because the acts of these virtues can be meritorious, as
stated above, and because they are a kind of beginning of perfect bliss, which consists in
the contemplation of truth, as we have already stated (Q. 3, A. 7).

Reply Obj. 3: Science is contrasted with virtue taken in the second sense, wherein it belongs
to the appetitive faculty.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 57, Art. 2]

Whether There Are Only Three Habits of the Speculative Intellect, Viz. Wisdom, Science and
Understanding?

Objection 1: It would seem unfitting to distinguish three virtues of the speculative intellect,
viz. wisdom, science and understanding. Because a species is a kind of science, as stated in
Ethic. vi, 7. Therefore wisdom should not be condivided with science among the intellectual
virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, in differentiating powers, habits and acts in respect of their objects, we
consider chiefly the formal aspect of these objects, as we have already explained (I, Q. 77,
A. 3). Therefore diversity of habits is taken, not from their material objects, but from the
formal aspect of those objects. Now the principle of a demonstration is the formal aspect under
which the conclusion is known. Therefore the understanding of principles should not be set
down as a habit or virtue distinct from the knowledge of conclusions.

Obj. 3: Further, an intellectual virtue is one which resides in the essentially rational faculty.
Now even the speculative reason employs the dialectic syllogism for the sake of argument, just
as it employs the demonstrative syllogism. Therefore as science, which is the result of a demonstrative
syllogism, is set down as an intellectual virtue, so also should opinion be.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 1) reckons these three alone as being intellectual
virtues, viz. wisdom, science and understanding.

I answer that, As already stated (A. 1), the virtues of the speculative intellect are those
which perfect the speculative intellect for the consideration of truth: for this is its good
work. Now a truth is subject to a twofold consideration--as known in itself, and as known through
another. What is known in itself, is as a principle, and is at once understood by the intellect:
wherefore the habit that perfects the intellect for the consideration of such truth is called
understanding, which is the habit of principles.

On the other hand, a truth which is known through another, is understood by the intellect,
not at once, but by means of the reason's inquiry, and is as a term. This may happen in two
ways: first, so that it is the last in some particular genus; secondly, so that it is the ultimate
term of all human knowledge. And, since "things that are knowable last from our standpoint,
are knowable first and chiefly in their nature" (Phys. i, text. 2, 3); hence that which is
last with respect to all human knowledge, is that which is knowable first and chiefly in its
nature. And about these is wisdom, which considers the highest causes, as stated in Metaph.
i, 1, 2. Wherefore it rightly judges all things and sets them in order, because there can be
no perfect and universal judgment that is not based on the first causes. But in regard to that
which is last in this or that genus of knowable matter, it is science which perfects the intellect.
Wherefore according to the different kinds of knowable matter, there are different habits of
scientific knowledge; whereas there is but one wisdom.

Reply Obj. 1: Wisdom is a kind of science, in so far as it has that which is common to all
the sciences; viz. to demonstrate conclusions from principles. But since it has something proper
to itself above the other sciences, inasmuch as it judges of them all, not only as to their
conclusions, but also as to their first principles, therefore it is a more perfect virtue than
science.

Reply Obj. 2: When the formal aspect of the object is referred to a power or habit by one same
act, there is no distinction of habit or power in respect of the formal aspect and of the material
object: thus it belongs to the same power of sight to see both color, and light, which is the
formal aspect under which color is seen, and is seen at the same time as the color. On the
other hand, the principles of a demonstration can be considered apart, without the conclusion
being considered at all. Again they can be considered together with the conclusions, since
the conclusions can be deduced from them. Accordingly, to consider the principles in this second
way, belongs to science, which considers the conclusions also: while to consider the principles
in themselves belongs to understanding.

Consequently, if we consider the point aright, these three virtues are distinct, not as being
on a par with one another, but in a certain order. The same is to be observed in potential
wholes, wherein one part is more perfect than another; for instance, the rational soul is more
perfect than the sensitive soul; and the sensitive, than the vegetal. For it is thus that science
depends on understanding as on a virtue of higher degree: and both of these depend on wisdom,
as obtaining the highest place, and containing beneath itself both understanding and science,
by judging both of the conclusions of science, and of the principles on which they are based.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 55, AA. 3, 4), a virtuous habit has a fixed relation to good,
and is nowise referable to evil. Now the good of the intellect is truth, and falsehood is its
evil. Wherefore those habits alone are called intellectual virtues, whereby we tell the truth
and never tell a falsehood. But opinion and suspicion can be about both truth and falsehood:
and so, as stated in Ethic. vi, 3, they are not intellectual virtues.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 57, Art. 3]

Whether the Intellectual Habit, Art, Is a Virtue? But one may make bad use of art: for a craftsman
can work badly according to the knowledge of his art. Therefore art is not a virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, the liberal arts excel the mechanical arts. But just as the mechanical arts
are practical, so the liberal arts are speculative. Therefore, if art were an intellectual
virtue, it would have to be reckoned among the speculative virtues.

On the contrary, The Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 3, 4) says that art is a virtue; and yet he does
not reckon it among the speculative virtues, which, according to him, reside in the scientific
part of the soul.

I answer that, Art is nothing else but "the right reason about certain works to be made." And
yet the good of these things depends, not on man's appetitive faculty being affected in this
or that way, but on the goodness of the work done. For a craftsman, as such, is commendable,
not for the will with which he does a work, but for the quality of the work. Art, therefore,
properly speaking, is an operative habit. And yet it has something in common with the speculative
habits: since the quality of the object considered by the latter is a matter of concern to
them also, but not how the human appetite may be affected towards that object. For as long
as the geometrician demonstrates the truth, it matters not how his appetitive faculty may be
affected, whether he be joyful or angry: even as neither does this matter in a craftsman, as
we have observed. And so art has the nature of a virtue in the same way as the speculative
habits, in so far, to wit, as neither art nor speculative habit makes a good work as regards
the use of the habit, which is the property of a virtue that perfects the appetite, but only
as regards the aptness to work well.

Reply Obj. 1: When anyone endowed with an art produces bad workmanship, this is not the work
of that art, in fact it is contrary to the art: even as when a man lies, while knowing the
truth, his words are not in accord with his knowledge, but contrary thereto. Wherefore, just
as science has always a relation to good, as stated above (A. 2, ad 3), so it is with art:
and it is for this reason that it is called a virtue. And yet it falls short of being a perfect
virtue, because it does not make its possessor to use it well; for which purpose something
further is requisite: although there cannot be a good use without the art.

Reply Obj. 2: In order that man may make good use of the art he has, he needs a good will,
which is perfected by moral virtue; and for this reason the Philosopher says that there is
a virtue of art; namely, a moral virtue, in so far as the good use of art requires a moral
virtue. For it is evident that a craftsman is inclined by justice, which rectifies his will,
to do his work faithfully.

Reply Obj. 3: Even in speculative matters there is something by way of work: e.g. the making
of a syllogism or of a fitting speech, or the work of counting or measuring. Hence whatever
habits are ordained to such like works of the speculative reason, are, by a kind of comparison,
called arts indeed, but "liberal" arts, in order to distinguish them from those arts that are
ordained to works done by the body, which arts are, in a fashion, servile, inasmuch as the
body is in servile subjection to the soul, and man, as regards his soul, is free (liber). On
the other hand, those sciences which are not ordained to any such like work, are called sciences
simply, and not arts. Nor, if the liberal arts be more excellent, does it follow that the notion
of art is more applicable to them.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 57, Art. 4]

Whether Prudence Is a Distinct Virtue from Art?

Objection 1: It would seem that prudence is not a distinct virtue from art. For art is the
right reason about certain works. But diversity of works does not make a habit cease to be
an art; since there are various arts about works widely different. Since therefore prudence
is also right reason about works, it seems that it too should be reckoned a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, prudence has more in common with art than the speculative habits have; for
they are both "about contingent matters that may be otherwise than they are" (Ethic. vi, 4,
5). Now some speculative habits are called arts. Much more, therefore, should prudence be called
an art.

Obj. 3: Further, it belongs to prudence, "to be of good counsel" (Ethic. vi, 5). But counselling
takes place in certain arts also, as stated in Ethic. iii, 3, e.g. in the arts of warfare,
of seamanship, and of medicine. Therefore prudence is not distinct from art.

On the contrary, The Philosopher distinguishes prudence from art (Ethic. vi, 5).

I answer that, Where the nature of virtue differs, there is a different kind of virtue. Now
it has been stated above (A. 1; Q. 56, A. 3) that some habits have the nature of virtue, through
merely conferring aptness for a good work: while some habits are virtues, not only through
conferring aptness for a good work, but also through conferring the use. But art confers the
mere aptness for good work; since it does not regard the appetite; whereas prudence confers
not only aptness for a good work, but also the use: for it regards the appetite, since it presupposes
the rectitude thereof.

The reason for this difference is that art is the "right reason of things to be made"; whereas
prudence is the "right reason of things to be done." Now "making" and "doing" differ, as stated
in Metaph. ix, text. 16, in that "making" is an action passing into outward matter, e.g. "to
build," "to saw," and so forth; whereas "doing" is an action abiding in the agent, e.g. "to
see," "to will," and the like. Accordingly prudence stands in the same relation to such like
human actions, consisting in the use of powers and habits, as art does to outward making: since
each is the perfect reason about the things with which it is concerned. But perfection and
rectitude of reason in speculative matters, depend on the principles from which reason argues;
just as we have said above (A. 2, ad 2) that science depends on and presupposes understanding,
which is the habit of principles. Now in human acts the end is what the principles are in speculative
matters, as stated in Ethic. vii, 8. Consequently, it is requisite for prudence, which is right
reason about things to be done, that man be well disposed with regard to the ends: and this
depends on the rectitude of his appetite. Wherefore, for prudence there is need of a moral
virtue, which rectifies the appetite. On the other hand the good of things made by art is not
the good of man's appetite, but the good of those things themselves: wherefore art does not
presuppose rectitude of the appetite. The consequence is that more praise is given to a craftsman
who is at fault willingly, than to one who is unwillingly; whereas it is more contrary to prudence
to sin willingly than unwillingly, since rectitude of the will is essential to prudence, but
not to art. Accordingly it is evident that prudence is a virtue distinct from art.

Reply Obj. 1: The various kinds of things made by art are all external to man: hence they do
not cause a different kind of virtue. But prudence is right reason about human acts themselves:
hence it is a distinct kind of virtue, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Prudence has more in common with art than a speculative habit has, if we consider
their subject and matter: for they are both in the thinking part of the soul, and about things
that may be otherwise than they are. But if we consider them as virtues, then art has more
in common with the speculative habits, as is clear from what has been said.

Reply Obj. 3: Prudence is of good counsel about matters regarding man's entire life, and the
end of human life. But in some arts there is counsel about matters concerning the ends proper
to those arts. Hence some men, in so far as they are good counselors in matters of warfare,
or seamanship, are said to be prudent officers or pilots, but not simply prudent: only those
are simply prudent who give good counsel about all the concerns of life.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 57, Art. 5]

Whether Prudence Is a Virtue Necessary to Man?

Objection 1: It would seem that prudence is not a virtue necessary to lead a good life. For
as art is to things that are made, of which it is the right reason, so is prudence to things
that are done, in respect of which we judge of a man's life: for prudence is the right reason
about these things, as stated in Ethic. vi, 5. Now art is not necessary in things that are
made, save in order that they be made, but not after they have been made. Neither, therefore
is prudence necessary to man in order to lead a good life, after he has become virtuous; but
perhaps only in order that he may become virtuous.

Obj. 2: Further, "It is by prudence that we are of good counsel," as stated in Ethic. vi, 5.
But man can act not only from his own, but also from another's good counsel. Therefore man
does not need prudence in order to lead a good life, but it is enough that he follow the counsels
of prudent men.

Obj. 3: Further, an intellectual virtue is one by which one always tells the truth, and never
a falsehood. But this does not seem to be the case with prudence: for it is not human never
to err in taking counsel about what is to be done; since human actions are about things that
may be otherwise than they are. Hence it is written (Wis. 9:14): "The thoughts of mortal men
are fearful, and our counsels uncertain." Therefore it seems that prudence should not be reckoned
an intellectual virtue.

I answer that, Prudence is a virtue most necessary for human life. For a good life consists
in good deeds. Now in order to do good deeds, it matters not only what a man does, but also
how he does it; to wit, that he do it from right choice and not merely from impulse or passion.
And, since choice is about things in reference to the end, rectitude of choice requires two
things: namely, the due end, and something suitably ordained to that due end. Now man is suitably
directed to his due end by a virtue which perfects the soul in the appetitive part, the object
of which is the good and the end. And to that which is suitably ordained to the due end man
needs to be rightly disposed by a habit in his reason, because counsel and choice, which are
about things ordained to the end, are acts of the reason. Consequently an intellectual virtue
is needed in the reason, to perfect the reason, and make it suitably affected towards things
ordained to the end; and this virtue is prudence. Consequently prudence is a virtue necessary
to lead a good life.

Reply Obj. 1: The good of an art is to be found, not in the craftsman, but in the product of
the art, since art is right reason about things to be made: for since the making of a thing
passes into external matter, it is a perfection not of the maker, but of the thing made, even
as movement is the act of the thing moved: and art is concerned with the making of things.
On the other hand, the good of prudence is in the active principle, whose activity is its perfection:
for prudence is right reason about things to be done, as stated above (A. 4). Consequently
art does not require of the craftsman that his act be a good act, but that his work be good.
Rather would it be necessary for the thing made to act well (e.g. that a knife should carve
well, or that a saw should cut well), if it were proper to such things to act, rather than
to be acted on, because they have not dominion over their actions. Wherefore the craftsman
needs art, not that he may live well, but that he may produce a good work of art, and have
it in good keeping: whereas prudence is necessary to man, that he may lead a good life, and
not merely that he may be a good man.

Reply Obj. 2: When a man does a good deed, not of his own counsel, but moved by that of another,
his deed is not yet quite perfect, as regards his reason in directing him and his appetite
in moving him. Wherefore, if he do a good deed, he does not do well simply; and yet this is
required in order that he may lead a good life.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated in Ethic. vi, 2, truth is not the same for the practical as for the
speculative intellect. Because the truth of the speculative intellect depends on conformity
between the intellect and the thing. And since the intellect cannot be infallibly in conformity
with things in contingent matters, but only in necessary matters, therefore no speculative
habit about contingent things is an intellectual virtue, but only such as is about necessary
things. On the other hand, the truth of the practical intellect depends on conformity with
right appetite. This conformity has no place in necessary matters, which are not affected by
the human will; but only in contingent matters which can be effected by us, whether they be
matters of interior action, or the products of external work. Hence it is only about contingent
matters that an intellectual virtue is assigned to the practical intellect, viz. art, as regards
things to be made, and prudence, as regards things to be done.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 57, Art. 6]

Whether "Eubulia," "Synesis," and "Gnome" Are Virtues Annexed to Prudence?

Objection 1: It would seem that "eubulia, synesis, and gnome" are unfittingly assigned as virtues
annexed to prudence. For eubulia is "a habit whereby we take good counsel" (Ethic. vi, 9).
Now it "belongs to prudence to take good counsel," as stated (Ethic. vi, 9). Therefore eubulia
is not a virtue annexed to prudence, but rather is prudence itself.

Obj. 2: Further, it belongs to the higher to judge the lower. The highest virtue would therefore
seem to be the one whose act is judgment. Now synesis enables us to judge well. Therefore synesis
is not a virtue annexed to prudence, but rather is a principal virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, just as there are various matters to pass judgment on, so are there different
points on which one has to take counsel. But there is one virtue referring to all matters of
counsel. Therefore, in order to judge well of what has to be done, there is no need, besides
synesis, of the virtue of gnome.

Obj. 4: Further, Cicero (De Invent. Rhet. iii) mentions three other parts of prudence; viz.
"memory of the past, understanding of the present, and foresight of the future." Moreover,
Macrobius (Super Somn. Scip. 1) mentions yet others: viz. "caution, docility," and the like.
Therefore it seems that the above are not the only virtues annexed to prudence.

On the contrary, stands the authority of the Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 9, 10, 11), who assigns
these three virtues as being annexed to prudence.

I answer that, Wherever several powers are subordinate to one another, that power is the highest
which is ordained to the highest act. Now there are three acts of reason in respect of anything
done by man: the first of these is counsel; the second, judgment; the third, command. The first
two correspond to those acts of the speculative intellect, which are inquiry and judgment,
for counsel is a kind of inquiry: but the third is proper to the practical intellect, in so
far as this is ordained to operation; for reason does not have to command in things that man
cannot do. Now it is evident that in things done by man, the chief act is that of command,
to which all the rest are subordinate. Consequently, that virtue which perfects the command,
viz. prudence, as obtaining the highest place, has other secondary virtues annexed to it, viz.
eustochia, which perfects counsel; and synesis and gnome, which are parts of prudence in relation
to judgment, and of whose distinction we shall speak further on (ad 3).

Reply Obj. 1: Prudence makes us be of good counsel, not as though its immediate act consisted
in being of good counsel, but because it perfects the latter act by means of a subordinate
virtue, viz. euboulia.

Reply Obj. 2: Judgment about what is to be done is directed to something further: for it may
happen in some matter of action that a man's judgment is sound, while his execution is wrong.
The matter does not attain to its final complement until the reason has commanded aright in
the point of what has to be done.

Reply Obj. 3: Judgment of anything should be based on that thing's proper principles. But inquiry
does not reach to the proper principles: because, if we were in possession of these, we should
need no more to inquire, the truth would be already discovered. Hence only one virtue is directed
to being of good counsel, wheres there are two virtues for good judgment: because difference
is based not on common but on proper principles. Consequently, even in speculative matters,
there is one science of dialectics, which inquires about all matters; whereas demonstrative
sciences, which pronounce judgment, differ according to their different objects. Synesis and
gnome differ in respect of the different rules on which judgment is based: for synesis judges
of actions according to the common law; while gnome bases its judgment on the natural law,
in those cases where the common law fails to apply, as we shall explain further on (II-II,
Q. 51, A. 4).

Reply Obj. 4: Memory, understanding and foresight, as also caution and docility and the like,
are not virtues distinct from prudence: but are, as it were, integral parts thereof, in so
far as they are all requisite for perfect prudence. There are, moreover, subjective parts or
species of prudence, e.g. domestic and political economy, and the like. But the three first
names are, in a fashion, potential parts of prudence; because they are subordinate thereto,
as secondary virtues to a principal virtue: and we shall speak of them later (II-II, Q. 48, seqq.).

QUESTION 58

OF THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL VIRTUES (In Five Articles)

We must now consider moral virtues. We shall speak (1) of the difference between them and intellectual
virtues; (2) of their distinction, one from another, in respect of their proper matter; (3)
of the difference between the chief or cardinal virtues and the others.

Under the first head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether every virtue is a moral virtue?

(2) Whether moral virtue differs from intellectual virtue?

(3) Whether virtue is adequately divided into moral and intellectual virtue?

(4) Whether there can be moral without intellectual virtue?

(5) Whether, on the other hand, there can be intellectual without moral virtue?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 58, Art. 1]

Whether Every Virtue Is a Moral Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that every virtue is a moral virtue. Because moral virtue is so
called from the Latin mos, i.e. custom. Now, we can accustom ourselves to the acts of all the
virtues. Therefore every virtue is a moral virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 6) that moral virtue is "a habit of choosing
the rational mean." But every virtue is a habit of choosing: since the acts of any virtue can
be done from choice. And, moreover, every virtue consists in following the rational mean in
some way, as we shall explain further on (Q. 64, AA. 1, 2, 3). Therefore every virtue is a
moral virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, Cicero says (De Invent. Rhet. ii) that "virtue is a habit like a second nature,
in accord with reason." But since every human virtue is directed to man's good, it must be
in accord with reason: since man's good "consists in that which agrees with his reason," as
Dionysius states (Div. Nom. iv). Therefore every virtue is a moral virtue.

On the contrary, The Philosopher [says] (Ethic. i, 13): "When we speak of a man's morals, we
do not say that he is wise or intelligent, but that he is gentle or sober." Accordingly, then,
wisdom and understanding are not moral virtues: and yet they are virtues, as stated above (Q.
57, A. 2). Therefore not every virtue is a moral virtue.

I answer that, In order to answer this question clearly, we must consider the meaning of the
Latin word mos; for thus we shall be able to discover what a moral virtue is. Now mos has a
twofold meaning. For sometimes it means custom, in which sense we read (Acts 15:1): "Except
you be circumcised after the manner (morem) of Moses, you cannot be saved." Sometimes it means
a natural or quasi-natural inclination to do some particular action, in which sense the word
is applied to dumb animals. Thus we read (2 Macc. 1:2) that "rushing violently upon the enemy,
like lions [*Leonum more, i.e. as lions are in the habit of doing], they slew them": and the
word is used in the same sense in Ps. 67:7, where we read: "Who maketh men of one manner (moris)
to dwell in a house." For both these significations there is but one word in Latin; but in
the Greek there is a distinct word for each, for the word ethosis written sometimes with a
long, and sometimes a short e.

Now moral virtue is so called from mos in the sense of a natural or quasi-natural inclination
to do some particular action. And the other meaning of mos, i.e. custom, is akin to this: because
custom becomes a second nature, and produces an inclination similar to a natural one. But it
is evident that inclination to an action belongs properly to the appetitive power, whose function
it is to move all the powers to their acts, as explained above (Q. 9, A. 1). Therefore not
every virtue is a moral virtue, but only those that are in the appetitive faculty.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument takes mos in the sense of custom.

Reply Obj. 2: Every act of virtue can be done from choice: but no virtue makes us choose aright,
save that which is in the appetitive part of the soul: for it has been stated above that choice
is an act of the appetitive faculty (Q. 13, A. 1). Wherefore a habit of choosing, i.e. a habit
which is the principle whereby we choose, is that habit alone which perfects the appetitive
faculty: although the acts of other habits also may be a matter of choice.

Reply Obj. 3: "Nature is the principle of movement" (Phys. ii, text. 3). Now to move the faculties
to act is the proper function of the appetitive power. Consequently to become as a second nature
by consenting to the reason, is proper to those virtues which are in the appetitive faculty.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 58, Art. 2]

Whether Moral Virtue Differs from Intellectual Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral virtue does not differ from intellectual virtue. For
Augustine says (De Civ. Dei iv, 21) "that virtue is the art of right conduct." But art is an
intellectual virtue. Therefore moral and intellectual virtue do not differ.

Obj. 2: Further, some authors put science in the definition of virtues: thus some define perseverance
as a "science or habit regarding those things to which we should hold or not hold"; and holiness
as "a science which makes man to be faithful and to do his duty to God." Now science is an
intellectual virtue. Therefore moral virtue should not be distinguished from intellectual virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (Soliloq. i, 6) that "virtue is the rectitude and perfection
of reason." But this belongs to the intellectual virtues, as stated in Ethic. vi, 13. Therefore
moral virtue does not differ from intellectual.

Obj. 4: Further, a thing does not differ from that which is included in its definition.

On the contrary, It is stated in Ethic. i, 13 that "there are two kinds of virtue: some we
call intellectual; some moral."

I answer that, Reason is the first principle of all human acts; and whatever other principles
of human acts may be found, they obey reason somewhat, but in various ways. For some obey reason
blindly and without any contradiction whatever: such are the limbs of the body, provided they
be in a healthy condition, for as soon as reason commands, the hand or the foot proceeds to
action. Hence the Philosopher says (Polit. i, 3) that "the soul rules the body like a despot,"
i.e. as a master rules his slave, who has no right to rebel. Accordingly some held that all
the active principles in man are subordinate to reason in this way. If this were true, for
man to act well it would suffice that his reason be perfect. Consequently, since virtue is
a habit perfecting man in view of his doing good actions, it would follow that it is only in
the reason, so that there would be none but intellectual virtues. This was the opinion of Socrates,
who said "every virtue is a kind of prudence," as stated in Ethic. vi, 13. Hence he maintained
that as long as man is in possession of knowledge, he cannot sin; and that every one who sins,
does so through ignorance.

Now this is based on a false supposition. Because the appetitive faculty obeys the reason,
not blindly, but with a certain power of opposition; wherefore the Philosopher says (Polit.
i, 3) that "reason commands the appetitive faculty by a politic power," whereby a man rules
over subjects that are free, having a certain right of opposition. Hence Augustine says on
Ps. 118 (Serm. 8) that "sometimes we understand (what is right) while desire is slow, or follows
not at all," in so far as the habits or passions of the appetitive faculty cause the use of
reason to be impeded in some particular action. And in this way, there is some truth in the
saying of Socrates that so long as a man is in possession of knowledge he does not sin: provided,
however, that this knowledge is made to include the use of reason in this individual act of choice.

Accordingly for a man to do a good deed, it is requisite not only that his reason be well disposed
by means of a habit of intellectual virtue; but also that his appetite be well disposed by
means of a habit of moral virtue. And so moral differs from intellectual virtue, even as the
appetite differs from the reason. Hence just as the appetite is the principle of human acts,
in so far as it partakes of reason, so are moral habits to be considered virtues in so far
as they are in conformity with reason.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine usually applies the term "art" to any form of right reason; in which
sense art includes prudence which is the right reason about things to be done, even as art
is the right reason about things to be made. Accordingly, when he says that "virtue is the
art of right conduct," this applies to prudence essentially; but to other virtues, by participation,
for as much as they are directed by prudence.

Reply Obj. 2: All such definitions, by whomsoever given, were based on the Socratic theory,
and should be explained according to what we have said about art (ad 1).

The same applies to the Third Objection.

Reply Obj. 4: Right reason which is in accord with prudence is included in the definition of
moral virtue, not as part of its essence, but as something belonging by way of participation
to all the moral virtues, in so far as they are all under the direction of prudence.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 58, Art. 3]

Whether Virtue Is Adequately Divided into Moral and Intellectual?

Objection 1: It would seem that virtue is not adequately divided into moral and intellectual.
For prudence seems to be a mean between moral and intellectual virtue, since it is reckoned
among the intellectual virtues (Ethic. vi, 3, 5); and again is placed by all among the four
cardinal virtues, which are moral virtues, as we shall show further on (Q. 61, A. 1). Therefore
virtue is not adequately divided into intellectual and moral, as though there were no mean
between them.

Obj. 2: Further, continency, perseverance, and patience are not reckoned to be intellectual
virtues. Yet neither are they moral virtues; since they do not reduce the passions to a mean,
and are consistent with an abundance of passion. Therefore virtue is not adequately divided
into intellectual and moral.

Obj. 3: Further, faith, hope, and charity are virtues. Yet they are not intellectual virtues:
for there are only five of these, viz. science, wisdom, understanding, prudence, and art, as
stated above (Q. 57, AA. 2, 3, 5). Neither are they moral virtues; since they are not about
the passions, which are the chief concern of moral virtue. Therefore virtue is not adequately
divided into intellectual and moral.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 1) that "virtue is twofold, intellectual
and moral."

I answer that, Human virtue is a habit perfecting man in view of his doing good deeds. Now,
in man there are but two principles of human actions, viz. the intellect or reason and the
appetite: for these are the two principles of movement in man as stated in De Anima iii, text.
48. Consequently every human virtue must needs be a perfection of one of these principles.
Accordingly if it perfects man's speculative or practical intellect in order that his deed
may be good, it will be an intellectual virtue: whereas if it perfects his appetite, it will
be a moral virtue. It follows therefore that every human virtue is either intellectual or moral.

Reply Obj. 1: Prudence is essentially an intellectual virtue. But considered on the part of
its matter, it has something in common with the moral virtues: for it is right reason about
things to be done, as stated above (Q. 57, A. 4). It is in this sense that it is reckoned with
the moral virtues.

Reply Obj. 2: Continency and perseverance are not perfections of the sensitive appetite. This
is clear from the fact that passions abound in the continent and persevering man, which would
not be the case if his sensitive appetite were perfected by a habit making it conformable to
reason. Continency and perseverance are, however, perfections of the rational faculty, and
withstand the passions lest reason be led astray. But they fall short of being virtues: since
intellectual virtue, which makes reason to hold itself well in respect of moral matters, presupposes
a right appetite of the end, so that it may hold itself aright in respect of principles, i.e.
the ends, on which it builds its argument: and this is wanting in the continent and persevering
man. Nor again can an action proceeding from two principles be perfect, unless each principle
be perfected by the habit corresponding to that operation: thus, however perfect be the principal
agent employing an instrument, it will produce an imperfect effect, if the instrument be not
well disposed also. Hence if the sensitive faculty, which is moved by the rational faculty,
is not perfect; however perfect the rational faculty may be, the resulting action will be imperfect:
and consequently the principle of that action will not be a virtue. And for this reason, continency,
desisting from pleasures, and perseverance in the midst of pains, are not virtues, but something
less than a virtue, as the Philosopher maintains (Ethic. vii, 1, 9).

Reply Obj. 3: Faith, hope, and charity are superhuman virtues: for they are virtues of man
as sharing in the grace of God.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 58, Art. 4]

Whether There Can Be Moral Without Intellectual Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral can be without intellectual virtue. Because moral virtue,
as Cicero says (De Invent. Rhet. ii) is "a habit like a second nature in accord with reason."
Now though nature may be in accord with some sovereign reason that moves it, there is no need
for that reason to be united to nature in the same subject, as is evident of natural things
devoid of knowledge. Therefore in a man there may be a moral virtue like a second nature, inclining
him to consent to his reason, without his reason being perfected by an intellectual virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, by means of intellectual virtue man obtains perfect use of reason. But it
happens at times that men are virtuous and acceptable to God, without being vigorous in the
use of reason. Therefore it seems that moral virtue can be without intellectual.

Obj. 3: Further moral virtue makes us inclined to do good works. But some, without depending
on the judgment of reason, have a natural inclination to do good works. Therefore moral virtues
can be without intellectual virtues.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. xxii) that "the other virtues, unless we do prudently
what we desire to do, cannot be real virtues." But prudence is an intellectual virtue, as stated
above (Q. 57, A. 5). Therefore moral virtues cannot be without intellectual virtues.

I answer that, Moral virtue can be without some of the intellectual virtues, viz. wisdom, science,
and art; but not without understanding and prudence. Moral virtue cannot be without prudence,
because it is a habit of choosing, i.e. making us choose well. Now in order that a choice be
good, two things are required. First, that the intention be directed to a due end; and this
is done by moral virtue, which inclines the appetitive faculty to the good that is in accord
with reason, which is a due end. Secondly, that man take rightly those things which have reference
to the end: and this he cannot do unless his reason counsel, judge and command aright, which
is the function of prudence and the virtues annexed to it, as stated above (Q. 57, AA. 5, 6).
Wherefore there can be no moral virtue without prudence: and consequently neither can there
be without understanding. For it is by the virtue of understanding that we know self-evident
principles both in speculative and in practical matters. Consequently just as right reason
in speculative matters, in so far as it proceeds from naturally known principles, presupposes
the understanding of those principles, so also does prudence, which is the right reason about
things to be done.

Reply Obj. 1: The inclination of nature in things devoid of reason is without choice: wherefore
such an inclination does not of necessity require reason. But the inclination of moral virtue
is with choice: and consequently in order that it may be perfect it requires that reason be
perfected by intellectual virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: A man may be virtuous without having full use of reason as to everything, provided
he have it with regard to those things which have to be done virtuously. In this way all virtuous
men have full use of reason.

Reply Obj. 3: The natural inclination to a good of virtue is a kind of beginning of virtue,
but is not perfect virtue. For the stronger this inclination is, the more perilous may it prove
to be, unless it be accompanied by right reason, which rectifies the choice of fitting means
towards the due end. Thus if a running horse be blind, the faster it runs the more heavily
will it fall, and the more grievously will it be hurt. And consequently, although moral virtue
be not right reason, as Socrates held, yet not only is it "according to right reason," in so
far as it inclines man to that which is, according to right reason, as the Platonists maintained
[*Cf. Plato, Meno xli.]; but also it needs to be "joined with right reason," as Aristotle declares
(Ethic. vi, 13).

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 58, Art. 5]

Whether There Can Be Intellectual Without Moral Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that there can be intellectual without moral virtue. Because perfection
of what precedes does not depend on the perfection of what follows. Now reason precedes and
moves the sensitive appetite. Therefore intellectual virtue, which is a perfection of the reason,
does not depend on moral virtue, which is a perfection of the appetitive faculty; and can be
without it.

Obj. 2: Further, morals are the matter of prudence, even as things makeable are the matter
of art. Now art can be without its proper matter, as a smith without iron. Therefore prudence
can be without the moral virtues, although of all the intellectual virtues, it seems most akin
to the moral virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, prudence is "a virtue whereby we are of good counsel" (Ethic. vi, 9). Now
many are of good counsel without having the moral virtues. Therefore prudence can be without
a moral virtue.

On the contrary, To wish to do evil is directly opposed to moral virtue; and yet it is not
opposed to anything that can be without moral virtue. Now it is contrary to prudence "to sin
willingly" (Ethic. vi, 5). Therefore prudence cannot be without moral virtue.

I answer that, Other intellectual virtues can, but prudence cannot, be without moral virtue.
The reason for this is that prudence is the right reason about things to be done (and this,
not merely in general, but also in particular); about which things actions are. Now right reason
demands principles from which reason proceeds to argue. And when reason argues about particular
cases, it needs not only universal but also particular principles. As to universal principles
of action, man is rightly disposed by the natural understanding of principles, whereby he understands
that he should do no evil; or again by some practical science. But this is not enough in order
that man may reason aright about particular cases. For it happens sometimes that the aforesaid
universal principle, known by means of understanding or science, is destroyed in a particular
case by a passion: thus to one who is swayed by concupiscence, when he is overcome thereby,
the object of his desire seems good, although it is opposed to the universal judgment of his
reason. Consequently, as by the habit of natural understanding or of science, man is made to
be rightly disposed in regard to the universal principles of action; so, in order that he be
rightly disposed with regard to the particular principles of action, viz. the ends, he needs
to be perfected by certain habits, whereby it becomes connatural, as it were, to man to judge
aright to the end. This is done by moral virtue: for the virtuous man judges aright of the
end of virtue, because "such a man is, such does the end seem to him" (Ethic. iii, 5). Consequently
the right reason about things to be done, viz. prudence, requires man to have moral virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Reason, as apprehending the end, precedes the appetite for the end: but appetite
for the end precedes the reason, as arguing about the choice of the means, which is the concern
of prudence. Even so, in speculative matters the understanding of principles is the foundation
on which the syllogism of the reason is based.

Reply Obj. 2: It does not depend on the disposition of our appetite whether we judge well or
ill of the principles of art, as it does, when we judge of the end which is the principle in
moral matters: in the former case our judgment depends on reason alone. Hence art does not
require a virtue perfecting the appetite, as prudence does.

Reply Obj. 3: Prudence not only helps us to be of good counsel, but also to judge and command
well. This is not possible unless the impediment of the passions, destroying the judgment and
command of prudence, be removed; and this is done by moral virtue.

QUESTION 59

OF MORAL VIRTUE IN RELATION TO THE PASSIONS (In Five Articles)

We must now consider the difference of one moral virtue from another. And since those moral
virtues which are about the passions, differ accordingly to the difference of passions, we
must consider (1) the relation of virtue to passion; (2) the different kinds of moral virtue
in relation to the passions. Under the first head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether moral virtue is a passion?

(2) Whether there can be moral virtue with passion?

(3) Whether sorrow is compatible with moral virtue?

(4) Whether every moral virtue is about a passion?

(5) Whether there can be moral virtue without passion?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 59, Art. 1]

Whether Moral Virtue Is a Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral virtue is a passion. Because the mean is of the same
genus as the extremes. But moral virtue is a mean between two passions. Therefore moral virtue
is a passion.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue and vice, being contrary to one another, are in the same genus. But
some passions are reckoned to be vices, such as envy and anger. Therefore some passions are
virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, pity is a passion, since it is sorrow for another's ills, as stated above
(Q. 35, A. 8). Now "Cicero the renowned orator did not hesitate to call pity a virtue," as
Augustine states in De Civ. Dei ix, 5. Therefore a passion may be a moral virtue.

On the contrary, It is stated in Ethic. ii, 5 that "passions are neither virtues nor vices."

I answer that, Moral virtue cannot be a passion. This is clear for three reasons. First, because
a passion is a movement of the sensitive appetite, as stated above (Q. 22, A. 3): whereas moral
virtue is not a movement, but rather a principle of the movement of the appetite, being a kind
of habit. Secondly, because passions are not in themselves good or evil. For man's good or
evil is something in reference to reason: wherefore the passions, considered in themselves,
are referable both to good and evil, for as much as they may accord or disaccord with reason.
Now nothing of this sort can be a virtue: since virtue is referable to good alone, as stated
above (Q. 55, A. 3). Thirdly, because, granted that some passions are, in some way, referable
to good only, or to evil only; even then the movement of passion, as passion, begins in the
appetite, and ends in the reason, since the appetite tends to conformity with reason. On the
other hand, the movement of virtue is the reverse, for it begins in the reason and ends in
the appetite, inasmuch as the latter is moved by reason. Hence the definition of moral virtue
(Ethic. ii, 6) states that it is "a habit of choosing the mean appointed by reason as a prudent
man would appoint it."

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue is a mean between passions, not by reason of its essence, but on account
of its effect; because, to wit, it establishes the mean between passions.

Reply Obj. 2: If by vice we understand a habit of doing evil deeds, it is evident that no passion
is a vice. But if vice is taken to mean sin which is a vicious act, nothing hinders a passion
from being a vice, or, on the other hand, from concurring in an act of virtue; in so far as
a passion is either opposed to reason or in accordance with reason.

Reply Obj. Dei ix, 5). But if by pity we understand a habit perfecting man so that he bestows
pity reasonably, nothing hinders pity, in this sense, from being a virtue. The same applies
to similar passions.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 59, Art. For the Philosopher says (Topic. iv) that "a gentle man is
one who is not passionate; but a patient man is one who is passionate but does not give way."
The same applies to all the moral virtues. Therefore all moral virtues are without passion.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue is a right affection of the soul, as health is to the body, as stated
Phys. vii, text. 17: wherefore "virtue is a kind of health of the soul," as Cicero says (Quaest.
Tusc. iv). But the soul's passions are "the soul's diseases," as he says in the same book.
Now health is incompatible with disease. Therefore neither is passion compatible with virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, moral virtue requires perfect use of reason even in particular matters. But
the passions are an obstacle to this: for the Philosopher says (Ethic. vi, 5) that "pleasures
destroy the judgment of prudence": and Sallust says (Catilin.) that "when they," i.e. the soul's
passions, "interfere, it is not easy for the mind to grasp the truth." Therefore passion is
incompatible with moral virtue.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 6): "If the will is perverse, these movements,"
viz. the passions, "are perverse also: but if it is upright, they are not only blameless, but
even praiseworthy." But nothing praiseworthy is incompatible with moral virtue. Therefore moral
virtue does not exclude the passions, but is consistent with them.

I answer that, The Stoics and Peripatetics disagreed on this point, as Augustine relates (De
Civ. Dei ix, 4). For the Stoics held that the soul's passions cannot be in a wise or virtuous
man: whereas the Peripatetics, who were founded by Aristotle, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei
ix, 4), maintained that the passions are compatible with moral virtue, if they be reduced to
the mean.

This difference, as Augustine observes (De Civ. Dei ix, 4), was one of words rather than of
opinions. Because the Stoics, through not discriminating between the intellective appetite,
i.e. the will, and the sensitive appetite, which is divided into irascible and concupiscible,
did not, as the Peripatetics did, distinguish the passions from the other affections of the
human soul, in the point of their being movements of the sensitive appetite, whereas the other
emotions of the soul, which are not passions, are movements of the intellective appetite or
will; but only in the point of the passions being, as they maintained, any emotions in disaccord
with reason. These emotions could not be in a wise or virtuous man if they arose deliberately:
while it would be possible for them to be in a wise man, if they arose suddenly: because, in
the words of Aulus Gellius [*Noct. Attic. xix, 1], quoted by Augustine (De Civ. Dei ix, 4),
"it is not in our power to call up the visions of the soul, known as its fancies; and when
they arise from awesome things, they must needs disturb the mind of a wise man, so that he
is slightly startled by fear, or depressed with sorrow," in so far as "these passions forestall
the use of reason without his approving of such things or consenting thereto."

Accordingly, if the passions be taken for inordinate emotions, they cannot be in a virtuous
man, so that he consent to them deliberately; as the Stoics maintained. But if the passions
be taken for any movements of the sensitive appetite, they can be in a virtuous man, in so
far as they are subordinate to reason. Hence Aristotle says (Ethic. ii, 3) that "some describe
virtue as being a kind of freedom from passion and disturbance; this is incorrect, because
the assertion should be qualified": they should have said virtue is freedom from those passions
"that are not as they should be as to manner and time."

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher quotes this, as well as many other examples in his books on Logic,
in order to illustrate, not his own mind, but that of others. It was the opinion of the Stoics
that the passions of the soul were incompatible with virtue: and the Philosopher rejects this
opinion (Ethic. ii, 3), when he says that virtue is not freedom from passion. It may be said,
however, that when he says "a gentle man is not passionate," we are to understand this of inordinate
passion.

Reply Obj. 2: This and all similar arguments which Tully brings forward in De Tusc. Quaest.
iv take the passions in the execution of reason's command.

Reply Obj. 3: When a passion forestalls the judgment of reason, so as to prevail on the mind
to give its consent, it hinders counsel and the judgment of reason. But when it follows that
judgment, as through being commanded by reason, it helps towards the execution of reason's command.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 59, Art. 3]

Whether Sorrow Is Compatible with Moral Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that sorrow is incompatible with virtue. Now the "conversation"
of wisdom "hath no bitterness," as we read further on (verse 16). Therefore sorrow is incompatible
with virtue also.

Obj. 2: Further, sorrow is a hindrance to work, as the Philosopher states (Ethic. vii, 13;
x, 5). But a hindrance to good works is incompatible with virtue. Therefore sorrow is incompatible
with virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, Tully calls sorrow a disease of the mind (De Tusc. Quaest. iv). But disease
of the mind is incompatible with virtue, which is a good condition of the mind. Therefore sorrow
is opposed to virtue and is incompatible with it.

On the contrary, Christ was perfect in virtue. But there was sorrow in Him, for He said (Matt.
26:38): "My soul is sorrowful even unto death." Therefore sorrow is compatible with virtue.

I answer that, As Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 8), the Stoics held that in the mind of
the wise man there are three eupatheiai, i.e. "three good passions," in place of the three
disturbances: viz. instead of covetousness, "desire"; instead of mirth, "joy"; instead of fear,
"caution." But they denied that anything corresponding to sorrow could be in the mind of a
wise man, for two reasons.

First, because sorrow is for an evil that is already present. Now they held that no evil can
happen to a wise man: for they thought that, just as man's only good is virtue, and bodily
goods are no good to man; so man's only evil is vice, which cannot be in a virtuous man. But
this is unreasonable. For, since man is composed of soul and body, whatever conduces to preserve
the life of the body, is some good to man; yet not his supreme good, because he can abuse it.
Consequently the evil which is contrary to this good can be in a wise man, and can cause him
moderate sorrow. Again, although a virtuous man can be without grave sin, yet no man is to
be found to live without committing slight sins, according to 1 John 1:8: "If we say that we
have no sin, we deceive ourselves." A third reason is because a virtuous man, though not actually
in a state of sin, may have been so in the past. Fourthly, because he may praiseworthily sorrow
for another's sin. Therefore sorrow is compatible with moral virtue in the same way as the
other passions are when moderated by reason.

Their second reason for holding this opinion was that sorrow is about evil present, whereas
fear is for evil to come: even as pleasure is about a present good, while desire is for a future
good. Now the enjoyment of a good possessed, or the desire to have good that one possesses
not, may be consistent with virtue: but depression of the mind resulting from sorrow for a
present evil, is altogether contrary to reason: wherefore it is incompatible with virtue. But
this is unreasonable. For there is an evil which can be present to the virtuous man, as we
have just stated; which evil is rejected by reason. Wherefore the sensitive appetite follows
reason's rejection by sorrowing for that evil; yet moderately, according as reason dictates.
Now it pertains to virtue that the sensitive appetite be conformed to reason, as stated above
(A. 1, ad 2). Wherefore moderated sorrow for an object which ought to make us sorrowful, is
a mark of virtue; as also the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 6, 7). Moreover, this proves useful
for avoiding evil: since, just as good is more readily sought for the sake of pleasure, so
is evil more undauntedly shunned on account of sorrow.

Accordingly we must allow that sorrow for things pertaining to virtue is incompatible with
virtue: since virtue rejoices in its own. On the other hand, virtue sorrows moderately for
all that thwarts virtue, no matter how.

Reply Obj. 1: The passage quoted proves that the wise man is not made sorrowful by wisdom.
Yet he sorrows for anything that hinders wisdom. Consequently there is no room for sorrow in
the blessed, in whom there can be no hindrance to wisdom.

Reply Obj. 2: Sorrow hinders the work that makes us sorrowful: but it helps us to do more readily
whatever banishes sorrow.

Reply Obj. 3: Immoderate sorrow is a disease of the mind: but moderate sorrow is the mark of
a well-conditioned mind, according to the present state of life.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 59, Art. 4]

Whether All the Moral Virtues Are About the Passions?

Objection 1: It would seem that all the moral virtues are about the passions. For the Philosopher
says (Ethic. ii, 3) that "moral virtue is about objects of pleasure and sorrow." But pleasure
and sorrow are passions, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4; Q. 31, A. 1; Q. 35, AA. 1, 2). Therefore
all the moral virtues are about the passions.

Obj. 2: Further, the subject of the moral virtues is a faculty which is rational by participation,
as the Philosopher states (Ethic. i, 13). But the passions are in this part of the soul, as
stated above (Q. 22, A. 3). Therefore every moral virtue is about the passions.

Obj. 3: Further, some passion is to be found in every moral virtue: and so either all are about
the passions, or none are. But some are about the passions, as fortitude and temperance, as
stated in Ethic. iii, 6, 10. Therefore all the moral virtues are about the passions.

On the contrary, Justice, which is a moral virtue, is not about the passions; as stated in
Ethic. v, 1, seqq.

I answer that, Moral virtue perfects the appetitive part of the soul by directing it to good
as defined by reason. Now good as defined by reason is that which is moderated or directed
by reason. Consequently there are moral virtues about all matters that are subject to reason's
direction and moderation. Now reason directs, not only the passions of the sensitive appetite,
but also the operations of the intellective appetite, i.e. the will, which is not the subject
of a passion, as stated above (Q. 22, A. 3). Therefore not all the moral virtues are about
passions, but some are about passions, some about operations.

Reply Obj. 1: The moral virtues are not all about pleasures and sorrows, as being their proper
matter; but as being something resulting from their proper acts. For every virtuous man rejoices
in acts of virtue, and sorrows for the contrary. Hence the Philosopher, after the words quoted,
adds, "if virtues are about actions and passions; now every action and passion is followed
by pleasure or sorrow, so that in this way virtue is about pleasures and sorrows," viz. as
about something that results from virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: Not only the sensitive appetite which is the subject of the passions, is rational
by participation, but also the will, where there are no passions, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Some virtues have passions as their proper matter, but some virtues not. Hence
the comparison does not hold for all cases.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 59, Art. For the more perfect moral virtue is, the more does it overcome
the passions. Therefore at its highest point of perfection it is altogether without passion.

Obj. 2: Further, then is a thing perfect, when it is removed from its contrary and from whatever
inclines to its contrary. Now the passions incline us to sin which is contrary to virtue: hence
(Rom. 7:5) they are called "passions of sins." Therefore perfect virtue is altogether without
passion.

Obj. 3: Further, it is by virtue that we are conformed to God, as Augustine declares (De Moribus
Eccl. vi, xi, xiii). But God does all things without passion at all. Therefore the most perfect
virtue is without any passion.

On the contrary, "No man is just who rejoices not in his deeds," as stated in Ethic. i, 8.
But joy is a passion. Therefore justice cannot be without passion; and still less can the other
virtues be.

I answer that, If we take the passions as being inordinate emotions, as the Stoics did, it
is evident that in this sense perfect virtue is without the passions. But if by passions we
understand any movement of the sensitive appetite, it is plain that moral virtues, which are
about the passions as about their proper matter, cannot be without passions. The reason for
this is that otherwise it would follow that moral virtue makes the sensitive appetite altogether
idle: whereas it is not the function of virtue to deprive the powers subordinate to reason
of their proper activities, but to make them execute the commands of reason, by exercising
their proper acts. Wherefore just as virtue directs the bodily limbs to their due external
acts, so does it direct the sensitive appetite to its proper regulated movements.

Those moral virtues, however, which are not about the passions, but about operations, can be
without passions. Such a virtue is justice: because it applies the will to its proper act,
which is not a passion. Nevertheless, joy results from the act of justice; at least in the
will, in which case it is not a passion. And if this joy be increased through the perfection
of justice, it will overflow into the sensitive appetite; in so far as the lower powers follow
the movement of the higher, as stated above (Q. 17, A. 7; Q. 24, A. 3). Wherefore by reason
of this kind of overflow, the more perfect a virtue is, the more does it cause passion.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue overcomes inordinate passion; it produces ordinate passion.

Reply Obj. 2: It is inordinate, not ordinate, passion that leads to sin.

Reply Obj. 3: The good of anything depends on the condition of its nature. Now there is no
sensitive appetite in God and the angels, as there is in man. Consequently good operation in
God and the angels is altogether without passion, as it is without a body: whereas the good
operation of man is with passion, even as it is produced with the body's help.

QUESTION 60

HOW THE MORAL VIRTUES DIFFER FROM ONE ANOTHER (FIVE ARTICLES)

We must now consider how the moral virtues differ from one another: under which head there
are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there is only one moral virtue?

(2) Whether those moral virtues which are about operations, are distinct from those which are
about passions?

(3) Whether there is but one moral virtue about operations?

(4) Whether there are different moral virtues about different passions?

(5) Whether the moral virtues differ in point of the various objects of the passions?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 60, Art. 1]

Whether There Is Only One Moral Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is only one moral virtue. Because just as the direction
of moral actions belongs to reason which is the subject of the intellectual virtues; so does
their inclination belong to the appetite which is the subject of moral virtues. But there is
only one intellectual virtue to direct all moral acts, viz. prudence. Therefore there is also
but one moral virtue to give all moral acts their respective inclinations.

Obj. 2: Further, habits differ, not in respect of their material objects, but according to
the formal aspect of their objects. Now the formal aspect of the good to which moral virtue
is directed, is one thing, viz. the mean defined by reason. Therefore, seemingly, there is
but one moral virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, things pertaining to morals are specified by their end, as stated above (Q.
1, A. 3). Now there is but one common end of all moral virtues, viz. happiness, while the proper
and proximate ends are infinite in number. But the moral virtues themselves are not infinite
in number. Therefore it seems that there is but one.

On the contrary, One habit cannot be in several powers, as stated above (Q. 56, A. 2). But
the subject of the moral virtues is the appetitive part of the soul, which is divided into
several powers, as stated in the First Part (Q. 80, A. 2; Q. 81, A. 2). Therefore there cannot
be only one moral virtue.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 58, AA. 1, 2, 3), the moral virtues are habits of the appetitive
faculty. Now habits differ specifically according to the specific differences of their objects,
as stated above (Q. 54, A. 2). Again, the species of the object of appetite, as of any thing,
depends on its specific form which it receives from the agent. But we must observe that the
matter of the passive subject bears a twofold relation to the agent. For sometimes it receives
the form of the agent, in the same kind specifically as the agent has that form, as happens
with all univocal agents, so that if the agent be one specifically, the matter must of necessity
receive a form specifically one: thus the univocal effect of fire is of necessity something
in the species of fire. Sometimes, however, the matter receives the form from the agent, but
not in the same kind specifically as the agent, as is the case with non-univocal causes of
generation: thus an animal is generated by the sun. In this case the forms received into matter
are not of one species, but vary according to the adaptability of the matter to receive the
influx of the agent: for instance, we see that owing to the one action of the sun, animals
of various species are produced by putrefaction according to the various adaptability of matter.

Now it is evident that in moral matters the reason holds the place of commander and mover,
while the appetitive power is commanded and moved. But the appetite does not receive the direction
of reason univocally so to say; because it is rational, not essentially, but by participation
(Ethic. i, 13). Consequently objects made appetible by the direction of reason belong to various
species, according to their various relations to reason: so that it follows that moral virtues
are of various species and are not one only.

Reply Obj. 1: The object of the reason is truth. Now in all moral matters, which are contingent
matters of action, there is but one kind of truth. Consequently, there is but one virtue to
direct all such matters, viz. prudence. On the other hand, the object of the appetitive power
is the appetible good, which varies in kind according to its various relations to reason, the
directing power.

Reply Obj. 2: This formal element is one generically, on account of the unity of the agent:
but it varies in species, on account of the various relations of the receiving matter, as explained
above.

Reply Obj. 3: Moral matters do not receive their species from the last end, but from their
proximate ends: and these, although they be infinite in number, are not infinite in species.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 60, Art. 2]

Whether Moral Virtues About Operations Are Different from Those That Are About Passions?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral virtues are not divided into those which are about operations
and those which are about passions. For the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 3) that moral virtue
is "an operative habit whereby we do what is best in matters of pleasure or sorrow." Now pleasure
and sorrow are passions, as stated above (Q. 31, A. 1; Q. 35, A. 1). Therefore the same virtue
which is about passions is also about operations, since it is an operative habit.

Obj. 2: Further, the passions are principles of external action. If therefore some virtues
regulate the passions, they must, as a consequence, regulate operations also. Therefore the
same moral virtues are about both passions and operations.

Obj. 3: Further, the sensitive appetite is moved well or ill towards every external operation.
Now movements of the sensitive appetite are passions. Therefore the same virtues that are about
operations are also about passions.

On the contrary, The Philosopher reckons justice to be about operations; and temperance, fortitude
and gentleness, about passions (Ethic. ii, 3, 7; v, 1, seqq.).

I answer that, Operation and passion stand in a twofold relation to virtue. First, as its effects;
and in this way every moral virtue has some good operations as its product; and a certain pleasure
or sorrow which are passions, as stated above (Q. 59, A. 4, ad 1).

Secondly, operation may be compared to moral virtue as the matter about which virtue is concerned:
and in this sense those moral virtues which are about operations must needs differ from those
which are about passions. The reason for this is that good and evil, in certain operations,
are taken from the very nature of those operations, no matter how man may be affected towards
them: viz. in so far as good and evil in them depend on their being commensurate with someone
else. In operations of this kind there needs to be some power to regulate the operations in
themselves: such are buying and selling, and all such operations in which there is an element
of something due or undue to another. For this reason justice and its parts are properly about
operations as their proper matter. On the other hand, in some operations, good and evil depend
only on commensuration with the agent. Consequently good and evil in these operations depend
on the way in which man is affected to them. And for this reason in such like operations virtue
must needs be chiefly about internal emotions which are called the passions of the soul, as
is evidently the case with temperance, fortitude and the like.

It happens, however, in operations which are directed to another, that the good of virtue is
overlooked by reason of some inordinate passion of the soul. In such cases justice is destroyed
in so far as the due measure of the external act is destroyed: while some other virtue is destroyed
in so far as the internal passions exceed their due measure. Thus when through anger, one man
strikes another, justice is destroyed in the undue blow; while gentleness is destroyed by the
immoderate anger. The same may be clearly applied to other virtues.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections. For the first considers operations as the
effect of virtue, while the other two consider operation and passion as concurring in the same
effect. But in some cases virtue is chiefly about operations, in others, about passions, for
the reason given above.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 60, Art. 3]

Whether There Is Only One Moral Virtue About Operations?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is but one moral virtue about operations. Because the
rectitude of all external operations seems to belong to justice. Now justice is but one virtue.
Therefore there is but one virtue about operations.

Obj. 2: Further, those operations seem to differ most, which are directed on the one side to
the good of the individual, and on the other to the good of the many. But this diversity does
not cause diversity among the moral virtues: for the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 1) that legal
justice, which directs human acts to the common good, does not differ, save logically, from
the virtue which directs a man's actions to one man only. Therefore diversity of operations
does not cause a diversity of moral virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, if there are various moral virtues about various operations, diversity of
moral virtues would needs follow diversity of operations. But this is clearly untrue: for it
is the function of justice to establish rectitude in various kinds of commutations, and again
in distributions, as is set down in Ethic. v, 2. Therefore there are not different virtues
about different operations.

On the contrary, Religion is a moral virtue distinct from piety, both of which are about operations.

I answer that, All the moral virtues that are about operations agree in one general notion
of justice, which is in respect of something due to another: but they differ in respect of
various special notions. The reason for this is that in external operations, the order of reason
is established, as we have stated (A. 2), not according as how man is affected towards such
operations, but according to the becomingness of the thing itself; from which becomingness
we derive the notion of something due which is the formal aspect of justice: for, seemingly,
it pertains to justice that a man give another his due. Wherefore all such virtues as are about
operations, bear, in some way, the character of justice. But the thing due is not of the same
kind in all these virtues: for something is due to an equal in one way, to a superior, in another
way, to an inferior, in yet another; and the nature of a debt differs according as it arises
from a contract, a promise, or a favor already conferred. And corresponding to these various
kinds of debt there are various virtues: e.g. Religion whereby we pay our debt to God; Piety,
whereby we pay our debt to our parents or to our country; Gratitude, whereby we pay our debt
to our benefactors, and so forth.

Reply Obj. 1: Justice properly so called is one special virtue, whose object is the perfect
due, which can be paid in the equivalent. But the name of justice is extended also to all cases
in which something due is rendered: in this sense it is not as a special virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: That justice which seeks the common good is another virtue from that which is
directed to the private good of an individual: wherefore common right differs from private
right; and Tully (De Inv. ii) reckons as a special virtue, piety which directs man to the good
of his country. But that justice which directs man to the common good is a general virtue through
its act of command: since it directs all the acts of the virtues to its own end, viz. the common
good. And the virtues, in so far as they are commanded by that justice, receive the name of
justice: so that virtue does not differ, save logically, from legal justice; just as there
is only a logical difference between a virtue that is active of itself, and a virtue that is
active through the command of another virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: There is the same kind of due in all the operations belonging to special justice.
Consequently, there is the same virtue of justice, especially in regard to commutations. For
it may be that distributive justice is of another species from commutative justice; but about
this we shall inquire later on (II-II, Q. 61, A. 1). For there is but one habit about things
that concur in their source and end: as is evident especially in the case of sciences. But
the passions all concur in one source, viz. love; and they all terminate in the same end, viz.
joy or sorrow, as we stated above (Q. 25, AA. 1, 2, 4; Q. 27, A. 4). Therefore there is but
one moral virtue about all the passions.

Obj. 2: Further, if there were different moral virtues about different passions, it would follow
that there are as many moral virtues as passions. But this clearly is not the case: since there
is one moral virtue about contrary passions; namely, fortitude, about fear and daring; temperance,
about pleasure and sorrow. Therefore there is no need for different moral virtues about different
passions.

Obj. 3: Further, love, desire, and pleasure are passions of different species, as stated above
(Q. 23, A. 4). Now there is but one virtue about all these three, viz. temperance. Therefore
there are not different moral virtues about different passions.

On the contrary, Fortitude is about fear and daring; temperance about desire; meekness about
anger; as stated in Ethic. iii, 6, 10; iv, 5.

I answer that, It cannot be said that there is only one moral virtue about all the passions:
since some passions are not in the same power as other passions; for some belong to the irascible,
others to the concupiscible faculty, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 1).

On the other hand, neither does every diversity of passions necessarily suffice for a diversity
of moral virtues. First, because some passions are in contrary opposition to one another, such
as joy and sorrow, fear and daring, and so on. About such passions as are thus in opposition
to one another there must needs be one same virtue. Because, since moral virtue consists in
a kind of mean, the mean in contrary passions stands in the same ratio to both, even as in
the natural order there is but one mean between contraries, e.g. between black and white. Secondly,
because there are different passions contradicting reason in the same manner, e.g. by impelling
to that which is contrary to reason, or by withdrawing from that which is in accord with reason.
Wherefore the different passions of the concupiscible faculty do not require different moral
virtues, because their movements follow one another in a certain order, as being directed to
the one same thing, viz. the attainment of some good or the avoidance of some evil: thus from
love proceeds desire, and from desire we arrive at pleasure; and it is the same with the opposite
passions, for hatred leads to avoidance or dislike, and this leads to sorrow. On the other
hand, the irascible passions are not all of one order, but are directed to different things:
for daring and fear are about some great danger; hope and despair are about some difficult
good; while anger seeks to overcome something contrary which has wrought harm. Consequently
there are different virtues about such like passions: e.g. temperance, about the concupiscible
passions; fortitude, about fear and daring; magnanimity, about hope and despair; meekness,
about anger.

Reply Obj. 1: All the passions concur in one common principle and end; but not in one proper
principle or end: and so this does not suffice for the unity of moral virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as in the natural order the same principle causes movement from one extreme
and movement towards the other; and as in the intellectual order contraries have one common
ratio; so too between contrary passions there is but one moral virtue, which, like a second
nature, consents to reason's dictates.

Reply Obj. 3: Those three passions are directed to the same object in a certain order, as stated
above: and so they belong to the same virtue.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 60, Art. 5]

Whether the Moral Virtues Differ in Point of the Various Objects of the Passions?

Objection 1: It would seem that the moral virtues do not differ according to the objects of
the passions. For just as there are objects of passions, so are there objects of operations.
Now those moral virtues that are about operations, do not differ according to the objects of
those operations: for the buying and selling either of a house or of a horse belong to the
one same virtue of justice. Therefore neither do those moral virtues that are about passions
differ according to the objects of those passions.

Obj. 2: Further, the passions are acts or movements of the sensitive appetite. Now it needs
a greater difference to differentiate habits than acts. Hence diverse objects which do not
diversify the species of passions, do not diversify the species of moral virtue: so that there
is but one moral virtue about all objects of pleasure, and the same applies to the other passions.

Obj. 3: Further, more or less do not change a species. Now various objects of pleasure differ
only by reason of being more or less pleasurable. Therefore all objects of pleasure belong
to one species of virtue: and for the same reason so do all fearful objects, and the same applies
to others. Therefore moral virtue is not diversified according to the objects of the passions.

Obj. 4: Further, virtue hinders evil, even as it produces good. But there are various virtues
about the desires for good things: thus temperance is about desires for the pleasure of touch,
and eutrapelia about pleasures in games. Therefore there should be different virtues about
fears of evils.

On the contrary, Chastity is about sexual pleasures, abstinence about pleasures of the table,
and eutrapelia about pleasures in games.

I answer that, The perfection of a virtue depends on the reason; whereas the perfection of
a passion depends on the sensitive appetite. Consequently virtues must needs be differentiated
according to their relation to reason, but the passions according to their relation to the
appetite. Hence the objects of the passions, according as they are variously related to the
sensitive appetite, cause the different species of passions: while, according as they are related
to reason, they cause the different species of virtues. Now the movement of reason is not the
same as that of the sensitive appetite. Wherefore nothing hinders a difference of objects from
causing diversity of passions, without causing diversity of virtues, as when one virtue is
about several passions, as stated above (A. 4); and again, a difference of objects from causing
different virtues, without causing a difference of passions, since several virtues are directed
about one passion, e.g. pleasure.

And because diverse passions belonging to diverse powers, always belong to diverse virtues,
as stated above (A. 4); therefore a difference of objects that corresponds to a difference
of powers always causes a specific difference of virtues--for instance the difference between
that which is good absolutely speaking, and that which is good and difficult to obtain. Moreover
since the reason rules man's lower powers in a certain order, and even extends to outward things;
hence, one single object of the passions, according as it is apprehended by sense, imagination,
or reason, and again, according as it belongs to the soul, body, or external things, has various
relations to reason, and consequently is of a nature to cause a difference of virtues. Consequently
man's good which is the object of love, desire and pleasure, may be taken as referred either
to a bodily sense, or to the inner apprehension of the mind: and this same good may be directed
to man's good in himself, either in his body or in his soul, or to man's good in relation to
other men. And every such difference, being differently related to reason, differentiates virtues.

Accordingly, if we take a good, and it be something discerned by the sense of touch, and something
pertaining to the upkeep of human life either in the individual or in the species, such as
the pleasures of the table or of sexual intercourse, it will belong to the virtue of temperance.
As regards the pleasures of the other senses, they are not intense, and so do not present much
difficulty to the reason: hence there is no virtue corresponding to them; for virtue, "like
art, is about difficult things" (Ethic. ii, 3).

On the other hand, good discerned not by the senses, but by an inner power, and belonging to
man in himself, is like money and honor; the former, by its very nature, being employable for
the good of the body, while the latter is based on the apprehension of the mind. These goods
again may be considered either absolutely, in which way they concern the concupiscible faculty,
or as being difficult to obtain, in which way they belong to the irascible part: which distinction,
however, has no place in pleasurable objects of touch; since such are of base condition, and
are becoming to man in so far as he has something in common with irrational animals. Accordingly
in reference to money considered as a good absolutely, as an object of desire, pleasure, or
love, there is liberality: but if we consider this good as difficult to get, and as being the
object of our hope, there is magnificence [*megaloprepeia]. With regard to that good which
we call honor, taken absolutely, as the object of love, we have a virtue called philotimia,
i.e. love of honor: while if we consider it as hard to attain, and as an object of hope, then
we have magnanimity. Wherefore liberality and philotimia seem to be in the concupiscible part,
while magnificence and magnanimity are in the irascible.

As regards man's good in relation to other men, it does not seem hard to obtain, but is considered
absolutely, as the object of the concupiscible passions. This good may be pleasurable to a
man in his behavior towards another either in some serious matter, in actions, to wit, that
are directed by reason to a due end, or in playful actions, viz. that are done for mere pleasure,
and which do not stand in the same relation to reason as the former. Now one man behaves towards
another in serious matters, in two ways. First, as being pleasant in his regard, by becoming
speech and deeds: and this belongs to a virtue which Aristotle (Ethic. ii, 7) calls "friendship"
[*philia], and may be rendered "affability." Secondly, one man behaves towards another by being
frank with him, in words and deeds: this belongs to another virtue which (Ethic. iv, 7) he
calls "truthfulness" [*aletheia]. For frankness is more akin to the reason than pleasure, and
serious matters than play. Hence there is another virtue about the pleasures of games, which
the Philosopher calls eutrapelia (Ethic. iv, 8).

It is therefore evident that, according to Aristotle, there are ten moral virtues about the
passions, viz. fortitude, temperance, liberality, magnificence, magnanimity, philotimia, gentleness,
friendship, truthfulness, and eutrapelia, all of which differ in respect of their diverse matter,
passions, or objects: so that if we add justice, which is about operations, there will be eleven
in all.

Reply Obj. 1: All objects of the same specific operation have the same relation to reason:
not so all the objects of the same specific passion; because operations do not thwart reason
as the passions do.

Reply Obj. 2: Passions are not differentiated by the same rule as virtues are, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: More and less do not cause a difference of species, unless they bear different
relations to reason.

Reply Obj. 4: Good is a more potent mover than evil: because evil does not cause movement save
in virtue of good, as Dionysius states (Div. Nom. iv). Hence an evil does not prove an obstacle
to reason, so as to require virtues unless that evil be great; there being, seemingly, one
such evil corresponding to each kind of passion. Hence there is but one virtue, meekness, for
every form of anger; and, again, but one virtue, fortitude, for all forms of daring. On the
other hand, good involves difficulty, which requires virtue, even if it be not a great good
in that particular kind of passion. Consequently there are various moral virtues about desires,
as stated above.

QUESTION 61

OF THE CARDINAL VIRTUES (In Five Articles)

We must now consider the cardinal virtues: under which head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the moral virtues should be called cardinal or principal virtues?

(2) Of their number;

(3) Which are they?

(4) Whether they differ from one another?

(5) Whether they are fittingly divided into social, perfecting, perfect, and exemplar virtues?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 61, Art. 1]

Whether the Moral Virtues Should Be Called Cardinal or Principal Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral virtues should not be called cardinal or principal virtues.
For "the opposite members of a division are by nature simultaneous" (Categor. x), so that one
is not principal rather than another. Now all the virtues are opposite members of the division
of the genus "virtue." Therefore none of them should be called principal.

Obj. 2: Further, the end is principal as compared to the means. But the theological virtues
are about the end; while the moral virtues are about the means. Therefore the theological virtues,
rather than the moral virtues, should be called principal or cardinal.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is essentially so is principal in comparison with that which is
so by participation. But the intellectual virtues belong to that which is essentially rational:
whereas the moral virtues belong to that which is rational by participation, as stated above
(Q. 58, A. 3). Therefore the intellectual virtues are principal, rather than the moral virtues.

On the contrary, Ambrose in explaining the words, "Blessed are the poor in spirit" (Luke 6:20)
says: "We know that there are four cardinal virtues, viz. temperance, justice, prudence, and
fortitude." But these are moral virtues. Therefore the moral virtues are cardinal virtues.

I answer that, When we speak of virtue simply, we are understood to speak of human virtue.
Now human virtue, as stated above (Q. 56, A. 3), is one that answers to the perfect idea of
virtue, which requires rectitude of the appetite: for such like virtue not only confers the
faculty of doing well, but also causes the good deed done. On the other hand, the name virtue
is applied to one that answers imperfectly to the idea of virtue, and does not require rectitude
of the appetite: because it merely confers the faculty of doing well without causing the good
deed to be done. Now it is evident that the perfect is principal as compared to the imperfect:
and so those virtues which imply rectitude of the appetite are called principal virtues. Such
are the moral virtues, and prudence alone, of the intellectual virtues, for it is also something
of a moral virtue, as was clearly shown above (Q. 57, A. 4). Consequently, those virtues which
are called principal or cardinal are fittingly placed among the moral virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: When a univocal genus is divided into its species, the members of the division
are on a par in the point of the generic idea; although considered in their nature as things,
one species may surpass another in rank and perfection, as man in respect of other animals.
But when we divide an analogous term, which is applied to several things, but to one before
it is applied to another, nothing hinders one from ranking before another, even in the point
of the generic idea; as the notion of being is applied to substance principally in relation
to accident. Such is the division of virtue into various kinds of virtue: since the good defined
by reason is not found in the same way in all things.

Reply Obj. 2: The theological virtues are above man, as stated above (Q. 58, A. 3, ad 3). Hence
they should properly be called not human, but "super-human" or godlike virtues.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the intellectual virtues, except in prudence, rank before the moral
virtues, in the point of their subject, they do not rank before them as virtues; for a virtue,
as such, regards good, which is the object of the appetite.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 61, Art. 5]

Whether There Are Four Cardinal Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that there are not four cardinal virtues. For prudence is the directing
principle of the other moral virtues, as is clear from what has been said above (Q. 58, A.
4). But that which directs other things ranks before them. Therefore prudence alone is a principal
virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, the principal virtues are, in a way, moral virtues. Now we are directed to
moral works both by the practical reason, and by a right appetite, as stated in Ethic. vi,
2. Therefore there are only two cardinal virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, even among the other virtues one ranks higher than another. But in order that
a virtue be principal, it needs not to rank above all the others, but above some. Therefore
it seems that there are many more principal virtues.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. ii): "The entire structure of good works is built on
four virtues."

I answer that, Things may be numbered either in respect of their formal principles, or according
to the subjects in which they are: and either way we find that there are four cardinal virtues.

For the formal principle of the virtue of which we speak now is good as defined by reason;
which good is considered in two ways. First, as existing in the very act of reason: and thus
we have one principal virtue, called "Prudence." Secondly, according as the reason puts its
order into something else; either into operations, and then we have "Justice"; or into passions,
and then we need two virtues. For the need of putting the order of reason into the passions
is due to their thwarting reason: and this occurs in two ways. First, by the passions inciting
to something against reason, and then the passions need a curb, which we call "Temperance."
Secondly, by the passions withdrawing us from following the dictate of reason, e.g. through
fear of danger or toil: and then man needs to be strengthened for that which reason dictates,
lest he turn back; and to this end there is "Fortitude."

In like manner, we find the same number if we consider the subjects of virtue. For there are
four subjects of the virtue we speak of now: viz. the power which is rational in its essence,
and this is perfected by "Prudence"; and that which is rational by participation, and is threefold,
the will, subject of "Justice," the concupiscible faculty, subject of "Temperance," and the
irascible faculty, subject of "Fortitude."

Reply Obj. 1: Prudence is the principal of all the virtues simply. The others are principal,
each in its own genus.

Reply Obj. 2: That part of the soul which is rational by participation is threefold, as stated
above.

Reply Obj. 3: All the other virtues among which one ranks before another, are reducible to
the above four, both as to the subject and as to the formal principle.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 61, Art. 3]

Whether Any Other Virtues Should Be Called Principal Rather Than These?

Objection 1: It would seem that other virtues should be called principal rather than these.
For, seemingly, the greatest is the principal in any genus. Now "magnanimity has a great influence
on all the virtues" (Ethic. iv, 3). Therefore magnanimity should more than any be called a
principal virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, that which strengthens the other virtues should above all be called a principal
virtue. But such is humility: for Gregory says (Hom. iv in Ev.) that "he who gathers the other
virtues without humility is as one who carries straw against the wind." Therefore humility
seems above all to be a principal virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is most perfect seems to be principal. But this applies to patience,
according to James 1:4: "Patience hath a perfect work." Therefore patience should be reckoned
a principal virtue.

On the contrary, Cicero reduces all other virtues to these four (De Invent. Rhet. ii).

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), these four are reckoned as cardinal virtues, in respect
of the four formal principles of virtue as we understand it now. These principles are found
chiefly in certain acts and passions. Thus the good which exists in the act of reason, is found
chiefly in reason's command, but not in its counsel or its judgment, as stated above (Q. 57,
A. 6). Again, good as defined by reason and put into our operations as something right and
due, is found chiefly in commutations and distributions in respect of another person, and on
a basis of equality. The good of curbing the passions is found chiefly in those passions which
are most difficult to curb, viz. in the pleasures of touch. The good of being firm in holding
to the good defined by reason, against the impulse of passion, is found chiefly in perils of
death, which are most difficult to withstand.

Accordingly the above four virtues may be considered in two ways. First, in respect of their
common formal principles. In this way they are called principal, being general, as it were,
in comparison with all the virtues: so that, for instance, any virtue that causes good in reason's
act of consideration, may be called prudence; every virtue that causes the good of right and
due in operation, be called justice; every virtue that curbs and represses the passions, be
called temperance; and every virtue that strengthens the mind against any passions whatever,
be called fortitude. Many, both holy doctors, as also philosophers, speak about these virtues
in this sense: and in this way the other virtues are contained under them. Wherefore all the
objections fail.

Secondly, they may be considered in point of their being denominated, each one from that which
is foremost in its respective matter, and thus they are specific virtues, condivided with the
others. Yet they are called principal in comparison with the other virtues, on account of the
importance of their matter: so that prudence is the virtue which commands; justice, the virtue
which is about due actions between equals; temperance, the virtue which suppresses desires
for the pleasures of touch; and fortitude, the virtue which strengthens against dangers of
death. Thus again do the objections fail: because the other virtues may be principal in some
other way, but these are called principal by reason of their matter, as stated above.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 61, Art. 4]

Whether the Four Cardinal Virtues Differ from One Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that the above four virtues are not diverse and distinct from one
another. For Gregory says (Moral. xxii, 1): "There is no true prudence, unless it be just,
temperate and brave; no perfect temperance, that is not brave, just and prudent; no sound fortitude,
that is not prudent, temperate and just; no real justice, without prudence, fortitude and temperance."
But this would not be so, if the above virtues were distinct from one another: since the different
species of one genus do not qualify one another. Therefore the aforesaid virtues are not distinct
from one another.

Obj. 2: Further, among things distinct from one another the function of one is not attributed
to another. But the function of temperance is attributed to fortitude: for Ambrose says (De
Offic. xxxvi): "Rightly do we call it fortitude, when a man conquers himself, and is not weakened
and bent by any enticement." And of temperance he says (De Offic. xliii, xlv) that it "safeguards
the manner and order in all things that we decide to do and say." Therefore it seems that these
virtues are not distinct from one another.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 4) that the necessary conditions of virtue
are first of all "that a man should have knowledge; secondly, that he should exercise choice
for a particular end; thirdly, that he should possess the habit and act with firmness and steadfastness."
But the first of these seems to belong to prudence which is rectitude of reason in things to
be done; the second, i.e. choice, belongs to temperance, whereby a man, holding his passions
on the curb, acts, not from passion but from choice; the third, that a man should act for the
sake of a due end, implies a certain rectitude, which seemingly belongs to justice; while the
last, viz. firmness and steadfastness, belongs to fortitude. Therefore each of these virtues
is general in comparison to other virtues. Therefore they are not distinct from one another.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Moribus Eccl. xi) that "there are four virtues, corresponding
to the various emotions of love," and he applies this to the four virtues mentioned above.
Therefore the same four virtues are distinct from one another.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), these four virtues are understood differently by various
writers. For some take them as signifying certain general conditions of the human mind, to
be found in all the virtues: so that, to wit, prudence is merely a certain rectitude of discretion
in any actions or matters whatever; justice, a certain rectitude of the mind, whereby a man
does what he ought in any matters; temperance, a disposition of the mind, moderating any passions
or operations, so as to keep them within bounds; and fortitude, a disposition whereby the soul
is strengthened for that which is in accord with reason, against any assaults of the passions,
or the toil involved by any operations. To distinguish these four virtues in this way does
not imply that justice, temperance and fortitude are distinct virtuous habits: because it is
fitting that every moral virtue, from the fact that it is a habit, should be accompanied by
a certain firmness so as not to be moved by its contrary: and this, we have said, belongs to
fortitude. Moreover, inasmuch as it is a virtue, it is directed to good which involves the
notion of right and due; and this, we have said, belongs to justice. Again, owing to the fact
that it is a moral virtue partaking of reason, it observes the mode of reason in all things,
and does not exceed its bounds, which has been stated to belong to temperance. It is only in
the point of having discretion, which we ascribed to prudence, that there seems to be a distinction
from the other three, inasmuch as discretion belongs essentially to reason; whereas the other
three imply a certain share of reason by way of a kind of application (of reason) to passions
or operations. According to the above explanation, then, prudence would be distinct from the
other three virtues: but these would not be distinct from one another; for it is evident that
one and the same virtue is both habit, and virtue, and moral virtue.

Others, however, with better reason, take these four virtues, according as they have their
special determinate matter; each of its own matter, in which special commendation is given
to that general condition from which the virtue's name is taken as stated above (A. 3). In
this way it is clear that the aforesaid virtues are distinct habits, differentiated in respect
of their diverse objects.

Reply Obj. 1: Gregory is speaking of these four virtues in the first sense given above. It
may also be said that these four virtues qualify one another by a kind of overflow. For the
qualities of prudence overflow on to the other virtues in so far as they are directed by prudence.
And each of the others overflows on to the rest, for the reason that whoever can do what is
harder, can do what is less difficult. Wherefore whoever can curb his desires for the pleasures
of touch, so that they keep within bounds, which is a very hard thing to do, for this very
reason is more able to check his daring in dangers of death, so as not to go too far, which
is much easier; and in this sense fortitude is said to be temperate. Again, temperance is said
to be brave, by reason of fortitude overflowing into temperance: in so far, to wit, as he whose
mind is strengthened by fortitude against dangers of death, which is a matter of very great
difficulty, is more able to remain firm against the onslaught of pleasures; for as Cicero says
(De Offic. i), "it would be inconsistent for a man to be unbroken by fear, and yet vanquished
by cupidity; or that he should be conquered by lust, after showing himself to be unconquered
by toil."

From this the Reply to the Second Objection is clear. For temperance observes the mean in all
things, and fortitude keeps the mind unbent by the enticements of pleasures, either in so far
as these virtues are taken to denote certain general conditions of virtue, or in the sense
that they overflow on to one another, as explained above.

Reply Obj. 3: These four general conditions of virtue set down by the Philosopher, are not
proper to the aforesaid virtues. They may, however, be appropriated to them, in the way above
stated.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 61, Art. 5]

Whether the Cardinal Virtues Are Fittingly Divided into Social Virtues, Perfecting, Perfect,
and Exemplar Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that these four virtues are unfittingly divided into exemplar virtues,
perfecting virtues, perfect virtues, and social virtues. For as Macrobius says (Super Somn.
Scip. 1), the "exemplar virtues are such as exist in the mind of God." Now the Philosopher
says (Ethic. x, 8) that "it is absurd to ascribe justice, fortitude, temperance, and prudence
to God." Therefore these virtues cannot be exemplar.

Obj. 2: Further, the perfect virtues are those which are without any passion: for Macrobius
says (Super Somn. Scip. 1) that "in a soul that is cleansed, temperance has not to check worldly
desires, for it has forgotten all about them: fortitude knows nothing about the passions; it
does not have to conquer them." Now it was stated above (Q. 59, A. 5) that the aforesaid virtues
cannot be without passions. Therefore there is no such thing as perfect virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, he says (Macrobius: Super Somn. Scip. 1) that the "perfecting" virtues are
those of the man "who flies from human affairs and devotes himself exclusively to the things
of God." But it seems wrong to do this, for Cicero says (De Offic. i): "I reckon that it is
not only unworthy of praise, but wicked for a man to say that he despises what most men admire,
viz. power and office." Therefore there are no "perfecting" virtues.

Obj. 4: Further, he says (Macrobius: Super Somn. Scip. 1) that the "social" virtues are those
"whereby good men work for the good of their country and for the safety of the city." But it
is only legal justice that is directed to the common weal, as the Philosopher states (Ethic.
v, 1). Therefore other virtues should not be called "social."

On the contrary, Macrobius says (Super Somn. Scip. 1): "Plotinus, together with Plato foremost
among teachers of philosophy, says: 'The four kinds of virtue are fourfold: In the first place
there are social* virtues; secondly, there are perfecting virtues [*Virtutes purgatoriae: literally
meaning, cleansing virtues]; thirdly, there are perfect [*Virtutes purgati animi: literally,
virtues of the clean soul] virtues; and fourthly, there are exemplar virtues.'" [*Cf. Chrysostom's
fifteenth homily on St. Matthew, where he says: "The gentle, the modest, the merciful, the
just man does not shut up his good deeds within himself . . . He that is clean of heart and
peaceful, and suffers persecution for the sake of the truth, lives for the common weal."]

I answer that, As Augustine says (De Moribus Eccl. vi), "the soul needs to follow something
in order to give birth to virtue: this something is God: if we follow Him we shall live aright."
Consequently the exemplar of human virtue must needs pre-exist in God, just as in Him pre-exist
the types of all things. Accordingly virtue may be considered as existing originally in God,
and thus we speak of "exemplar" virtues: so that in God the Divine Mind itself may be called
prudence; while temperance is the turning of God's gaze on Himself, even as in us it is that
which conforms the appetite to reason. God's fortitude is His unchangeableness; His justice
is the observance of the Eternal Law in His works, as Plotinus states (Cf. Macrobius, Super
Somn. Scip. 1).

Again, since man by his nature is a social [*See above note on Chrysostom] animal, these virtues,
in so far as they are in him according to the condition of his nature, are called "social"
virtues; since it is by reason of them that man behaves himself well in the conduct of human
affairs. It is in this sense that we have been speaking of these virtues until now.

But since it behooves a man to do his utmost to strive onward even to Divine things, as even
the Philosopher declares in Ethic. x, 7, and as Scripture often admonishes us--for instance:
"Be ye . . . perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect" (Matt. 5:48), we must needs place
some virtues between the social or human virtues, and the exemplar virtues which are Divine.
Now these virtues differ by reason of a difference of movement and term: so that some are virtues
of men who are on their way and tending towards the Divine similitude; and these are called
"perfecting" virtues. Thus prudence, by contemplating the things of God, counts as nothing
all things of the world, and directs all the thoughts of the soul to God alone: temperance,
so far as nature allows, neglects the needs of the body; fortitude prevents the soul from being
afraid of neglecting the body and rising to heavenly things; and justice consists in the soul
giving a whole-hearted consent to follow the way thus proposed. Besides these there are the
virtues of those who have already attained to the Divine similitude: these are called the "perfect
virtues." Thus prudence sees nought else but the things of God; temperance knows no earthly
desires; fortitude has no knowledge of passion; and justice, by imitating the Divine Mind,
is united thereto by an everlasting covenant. Such as the virtues attributed to the Blessed,
or, in this life, to some who are at the summit of perfection.

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher is speaking of these virtues according as they relate to human
affairs; for instance, justice, about buying and selling; fortitude, about fear; temperance,
about desires; for in this sense it is absurd to attribute them to God.

Reply Obj. 2: Human virtues, that is to say, virtues of men living together in this world,
are about the passions. But the virtues of those who have attained to perfect bliss are without
passions. Hence Plotinus says (Cf. Macrobius, Super Somn. Scip. 1) that "the social virtues
check the passions," i.e. they bring them to the relative mean; "the second kind," viz. the
perfecting virtues, "uproot them"; "the third kind," viz. the perfect virtues, "forget them;
while it is impious to mention them in connection with virtues of the fourth kind," viz. the
exemplar virtues. It may also be said that here he is speaking of passions as denoting inordinate
emotions.

Reply Obj. 3: To neglect human affairs when necessity forbids is wicked; otherwise it is virtuous.
Hence Cicero says a little earlier: "Perhaps one should make allowances for those who by reason
of their exceptional talents have devoted themselves to learning; as also to those who have
retired from public life on account of failing health, or for some other yet weightier motive;
when such men yielded to others the power and renown of authority." If no one lays this burden
on us we may devote ourselves to the study and contemplation of truth; but if the burden is
laid on us it is to be taken up under the pressure of charity."

Reply Obj. 4: Legal justice alone regards the common weal directly: but by commanding the other
virtues it draws them all into the service of the common weal, as the Philosopher declares
(Ethic. v, 1). For we must take note that it concerns the human virtues, as we understand them
here, to do well not only towards the community, but also towards the parts of the community,
viz. towards the household, or even towards one individual.

QUESTION 62

OF THE THEOLOGICAL VIRTUES (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the Theological Virtues: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there are any theological virtues?

(2) Whether the theological virtues are distinct from the intellectual and moral virtues?

(3) How many, and which are they?

(4) Of their order.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 62, Art. 1]

Whether There Are Any Theological Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that there are not any theological virtues. But that which is Divine
is above man's nature. Therefore the theological virtues are not virtues of a man.

Obj. 2: Further, theological virtues are quasi-Divine virtues. But the Divine virtues are exemplars,
as stated above (Q. 61, A. 5), which are not in us but in God. Therefore the theological virtues
are not virtues of man.

Obj. 3: Further, the theological virtues are so called because they direct us to God, Who is
the first beginning and last end of all things. But by the very nature of his reason and will,
man is directed to his first beginning and last end. Therefore there is no need for any habits
of theological virtue, to direct the reason and will to God.

On the contrary, The precepts of the Law are about acts of virtue. Now the Divine Law contains
precepts about the acts of faith, hope, and charity: for it is written (Ecclus. 2:8, seqq.):
"Ye that fear the Lord believe Him," and again, "hope in Him," and again, "love Him." Therefore
faith, hope, and charity are virtues directing us to God. Therefore they are theological virtues.

I answer that, Man is perfected by virtue, for those actions whereby he is directed to happiness,
as was explained above (Q. 5, A. 7). Now man's happiness is twofold, as was also stated above
(Q. 5, A. 5). One is proportionate to human nature, a happiness, to wit, which man can obtain
by means of his natural principles. The other is a happiness surpassing man's nature, and which
man can obtain by the power of God alone, by a kind of participation of the Godhead, about
which it is written (2 Pet. 1:4) that by Christ we are made "partakers of the Divine nature."
And because such happiness surpasses the capacity of human nature, man's natural principles
which enable him to act well according to his capacity, do not suffice to direct man to this
same happiness. Hence it is necessary for man to receive from God some additional principles,
whereby he may be directed to supernatural happiness, even as he is directed to his connatural
end, by means of his natural principles, albeit not without Divine assistance. Such like principles
are called "theological virtues": first, because their object is God, inasmuch as they direct
us aright to God: secondly, because they are infused in us by God alone: thirdly, because these
virtues are not made known to us, save by Divine revelation, contained in Holy Writ.

Reply Obj. 1: A certain nature may be ascribed to a certain thing in two ways. First, essentially:
and thus these theological virtues surpass the nature of man. Secondly, by participation, as
kindled wood partakes of the nature of fire: and thus, after a fashion, man becomes a partaker
of the Divine Nature, as stated above: so that these virtues are proportionate to man in respect
of the Nature of which he is made a partaker.

Reply Obj. 2: These virtues are called Divine, not as though God were virtuous by reason of
them, but because of them God makes us virtuous, and directs us to Himself. Hence they are
not exemplar but exemplate virtues.

Reply Obj. 3: The reason and will are naturally directed to God, inasmuch as He is the beginning
and end of nature, but in proportion to nature. But the reason and will, according to their
nature, are not sufficiently directed to Him in so far as He is the object of supernatural
happiness.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 62, Art. 2]

Whether the Theological Virtues Are Distinct from the Intellectual and Moral Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that the theological virtues are not distinct from the moral and
intellectual virtues. For the theological virtues, if they be in a human soul, must needs perfect
it, either as to the intellective, or as to the appetitive part. Now the virtues which perfect
the intellective part are called intellectual; and the virtues which perfect the appetitive
part, are called moral. Therefore, the theological virtues are not distinct from the moral
and intellectual virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, the theological virtues are those which direct us to God. Now, among the intellectual
virtues there is one which directs us to God: this is wisdom, which is about Divine things,
since it considers the highest cause. Therefore the theological virtues are not distinct from
the intellectual virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine (De Moribus Eccl. xv) shows how the four cardinal virtues are the
"order of love." Now love is charity, which is a theological virtue. Therefore the moral virtues
are not distinct from the theological.

On the contrary, That which is above man's nature is distinct from that which is according
to his nature. But the theological virtues are above man's nature; while the intellectual and
moral virtues are in proportion to his nature, as clearly shown above (Q. 58, A. 3). Therefore
they are distinct from one another.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 54, A. 2, ad 1), habits are specifically distinct from one
another in respect of the formal difference of their objects. Now the object of the theological
virtues is God Himself, Who is the last end of all, as surpassing the knowledge of our reason.
On the other hand, the object of the intellectual and moral virtues is something comprehensible
to human reason. Wherefore the theological virtues are specifically distinct from the moral
and intellectual virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: The intellectual and moral virtues perfect man's intellect and appetite according
to the capacity of human nature; the theological virtues, supernaturally.

Reply Obj. 2: The wisdom which the Philosopher (Ethic. vi, 3, 7) reckons as an intellectual
virtue, considers Divine things so far as they are open to the research of human reason. Theological
virtue, on the other hand, is about those same things so far as they surpass human reason.

Reply Obj. 3: Though charity is love, yet love is not always charity. When, then, it is stated
that every virtue is the order of love, this can be understood either of love in the general
sense, or of the love of charity. If it be understood of love, commonly so called, then each
virtue is stated to be the order of love, in so far as each cardinal virtue requires ordinate
emotions; and love is the root and cause of every emotion, as stated above (Q. 27, A. 4; Q.
28, A. 6, ad 2; Q. 41, A. 2, ad 1). If, however, it be understood of the love of charity, it
does not mean that every other virtue is charity essentially: but that all other virtues depend
on charity in some way, as we shall show further on (Q. 65, AA. 2, 5; II-II, Q. 23, A. 7).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 62, Art. 3]

Whether Faith, Hope, and Charity Are Fittingly Reckoned As Theological Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that faith, hope, and charity are not fittingly reckoned as three
theological virtues. For the theological virtues are in relation to Divine happiness, what
the natural inclination is in relation to the connatural end. Now among the virtues directed
to the connatural end there is but one natural virtue, viz. the understanding of principles.
Therefore there should be but one theological virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, the theological virtues are more perfect than the intellectual and moral virtues.
Now faith is not reckoned among the intellectual virtues, but is something less than a virtue,
since it is imperfect knowledge. Likewise hope is not reckoned among the moral virtues, but
is something less than a virtue, since it is a passion. Much less therefore should they be
reckoned as theological virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, the theological virtues direct man's soul to God. Now man's soul cannot be
directed to God, save through the intellective part, wherein are the intellect and will. Therefore
there should be only two theological virtues, one perfecting the intellect, the other, the will.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the theological virtues direct man to supernatural happiness
in the same way as by the natural inclination man is directed to his connatural end. Now the
latter happens in respect of two things. First, in respect of the reason or intellect, in so
far as it contains the first universal principles which are known to us by the natural light
of the intellect, and which are reason's starting-point, both in speculative and in practical
matters. Secondly, through the rectitude of the will which tends naturally to good as defined
by reason. Consequently in respect of both the above things man needed to receive in addition
something supernatural to direct him to a supernatural end. First, as regards the intellect,
man receives certain supernatural principles, which are held by means of a Divine light: these
are the articles of faith, about which is faith. Secondly, the will is directed to this end,
both as to that end as something attainable--and this pertains to hope--and as to a certain
spiritual union, whereby the will is, so to speak, transformed into that end--and this belongs
to charity. For the appetite of a thing is moved and tends towards its connatural end naturally;
and this movement is due to a certain conformity of the thing with its end.

Reply Obj. 1: The intellect requires intelligible species whereby to understand: consequently
there is need of a natural habit in addition to the power. But the very nature of the will
suffices for it to be directed naturally to the end, both as to the intention of the end and
as to its conformity with the end. But the nature of the power is insufficient in either of
these respects, for the will to be directed to things that are above its nature. Consequently
there was need for an additional supernatural habit in both respects.

Reply Obj. 2: Faith and hope imply a certain imperfection: since faith is of things unseen,
and hope, of things not possessed. Hence faith and hope, in things that are subject to human
power, fall short of the notion of virtue. But faith and hope in things which are above the
capacity of human nature surpass all virtue that is in proportion to man, according to 1 Cor.
1:25: "The weakness of God is stronger than men."

Reply Obj. 3: Two things pertain to the appetite, viz. movement to the end, and conformity
with the end by means of love. Hence there must needs be two theological virtues in the human
appetite, namely, hope and charity.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 62, Art. 4]

Whether Faith Precedes Hope, and Hope Charity?

Objection 1: It would seem that the order of the theological virtues is not that faith precedes
hope, and hope charity. For the root precedes that which grows from it. Now charity is the
root of all the virtues, according to Eph. 3:17: "Being rooted and founded in charity." Therefore
charity precedes the others.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Doctr. Christ. i): "A man cannot love what he does not
believe to exist. But if he believes and loves, by doing good works he ends in hoping." Therefore
it seems that faith precedes charity, and charity hope.

Obj. 3: Further, love is the principle of all our emotions, as stated above (A. 2, ad 3). Now
hope is a kind of emotion, since it is a passion, as stated above (Q. 25, A. 2). Therefore
charity, which is love, precedes hope.

I answer that, Order is twofold: order of generation, and order of perfection. By order of
generation, in respect of which matter precedes form, and the imperfect precedes the perfect,
in one same subject faith precedes hope, and hope charity, as to their acts: because habits
are all infused together. For the movement of the appetite cannot tend to anything, either
by hoping or loving, unless that thing be apprehended by the sense or by the intellect. Now
it is by faith that the intellect apprehends the object of hope and love. Hence in the order
of generation, faith precedes hope and charity. In like manner a man loves a thing because
he apprehends it as his good. Now from the very fact that a man hopes to be able to obtain
some good through someone, he looks on the man in whom he hopes as a good of his own. Hence
for the very reason that a man hopes in someone, he proceeds to love him: so that in the order
of generation, hope precedes charity as regards their respective acts.

But in the order of perfection, charity precedes faith and hope: because both faith and hope
are quickened by charity, and receive from charity their full complement as virtues. For thus
charity is the mother and the root of all the virtues, inasmuch as it is the form of them all,
as we shall state further on (II-II, Q. 23, A. 8).

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: Augustine is speaking of that hope whereby a man hopes to obtain bliss through
the merits which he has already: this belongs to hope quickened by and following charity. But
it is possible for a man before having charity, to hope through merits not already possessed,
but which he hopes to possess.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 40, A. 7), in treating of the passions, hope regards two
things. One as its principal object, viz. the good hoped for. With regard to this, love always
precedes hope: for good is never hoped for unless it be desired and loved. Hope also regards
the person from whom a man hopes to be able to obtain some good. With regard to this, hope
precedes love at first; though afterwards hope is increased by love. Because from the fact
that a man thinks that he can obtain a good through someone, he begins to love him: and from
the fact that he loves him, he then hopes all the more in him.

QUESTION 63

OF THE CAUSE OF VIRTUES (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the cause of virtues; and under this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether virtue is in us by nature?

(2) Whether any virtue is caused in us by habituation?

(3) Whether any moral virtues are in us by infusion?

(4) Whether virtue acquired by habituation, is of the same species as infused virtue?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 63, Art. 1]

Whether Virtue Is in Us by Nature?

Objection 1: It would seem that virtue is in us by nature. For Damascene says (De Fide Orth.
iii, 14): "Virtues are natural to us and are equally in all of us." And Antony says in his
sermon to the monks: "If the will contradicts nature it is perverse, if it follow nature it
is virtuous." Moreover, a gloss on Matt. 4:23, "Jesus went about," etc., says: "He taught them
natural virtues, i.e. chastity, justice, humility, which man possesses naturally."

Obj. 2: Further, the virtuous good consists in accord with reason, as was clearly shown above
(Q. 55, A. 4, ad 2). But that which accords with reason is natural to man; since reason is
part of man's nature. Therefore virtue is in man by nature.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is in us from birth is said to be natural to us. Now virtues are
in some from birth: for it is written (Job 31:18): "From my infancy mercy grew up with me;
and it came out with me from my mother's womb." Therefore virtue is in man by nature.

On the contrary, Whatever is in man by nature is common to all men, and is not taken away by
sin, since even in the demons natural gifts remain, as Dionysius states (Div. Nom. iv). But
virtue is not in all men; and is cast out by sin. Therefore it is not in man by nature.

I answer that, With regard to corporeal forms, it has been maintained by some that they are
wholly from within, by those, for instance, who upheld the theory of "latent forms" [*Anaxagoras;
Cf. I, Q. 45, A. 8; Q. 65, A. 4]. Others held that forms are entirely from without, those,
for instance, who thought that corporeal forms originated from some separate cause. Others,
however, esteemed that they are partly from within, in so far as they pre-exist potentially
in matter; and partly from without, in so far as they are brought into act by the agent.

In like manner with regard to sciences and virtues, some held that they are wholly from within,
so that all virtues and sciences would pre-exist in the soul naturally, but that the hindrances
to science and virtue, which are due to the soul being weighed down by the body, are removed
by study and practice, even as iron is made bright by being polished. This was the opinion
of the Platonists. Others said that they are wholly from without, being due to the inflow of
the active intellect, as Avicenna maintained. Others said that sciences and virtues are within
us by nature, so far as we are adapted to them, but not in their perfection: this is the teaching
of the Philosopher (Ethic. ii, 1), and is nearer the truth.

To make this clear, it must be observed that there are two ways in which something is said
to be natural to a man; one is according to his specific nature, the other according to his
individual nature. And, since each thing derives its species from its form, and its individuation
from matter, and, again, since man's form is his rational soul, while his matter is his body,
whatever belongs to him in respect of his rational soul, is natural to him in respect of his
specific nature; while whatever belongs to him in respect of the particular temperament of
his body, is natural to him in respect of his individual nature. For whatever is natural to
man in respect of his body, considered as part of his species, is to be referred, in a way,
to the soul, in so far as this particular body is adapted to this particular soul.

In both these ways virtue is natural to man inchoatively. This is so in respect of the specific
nature, in so far as in man's reason are to be found instilled by nature certain naturally
known principles of both knowledge and action, which are the nurseries of intellectual and
moral virtues, and in so far as there is in the will a natural appetite for good in accordance
with reason. Again, this is so in respect of the individual nature, in so far as by reason
of a disposition in the body, some are disposed either well or ill to certain virtues: because,
to wit, certain sensitive powers are acts of certain parts of the body, according to the disposition
of which these powers are helped or hindered in the exercise of their acts, and, in consequence,
the rational powers also, which the aforesaid sensitive powers assist. In this way one man
has a natural aptitude for science, another for fortitude, another for temperance: and in these
ways, both intellectual and moral virtues are in us by way of a natural aptitude, inchoatively,
but not perfectly, since nature is determined to one, while the perfection of these virtues
does not depend on one particular mode of action, but on various modes, in respect of the various
matters, which constitute the sphere of virtue's action, and according to various circumstances.

It is therefore evident that all virtues are in us by nature, according to aptitude and inchoation,
but not according to perfection, except the theological virtues, which are entirely from without.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections. For the first two argue about the nurseries
of virtue which are in us by nature, inasmuch as we are rational beings. The third objection
must be taken in the sense that, owing to the natural disposition which the body has from birth,
one has an aptitude for pity, another for living temperately, another for some other virtue.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 63, Art. 2]

Whether Any Virtue Is Caused in Us by Habituation?

Objection 1: It would seem that virtues can not be caused in us by habituation. Because a gloss
of Augustine [*Cf. Lib. Sentent. Prosperi cvi.] commenting on Rom. 14:23, "All that is not
of faith is sin," says: "The whole life of an unbeliever is a sin: and there is no good without
the Sovereign Good. Where knowledge of the truth is lacking, virtue is a mockery even in the
best behaved people." Now faith cannot be acquired by means of works, but is caused in us by
God, according to Eph. 2:8: "By grace you are saved through faith." Therefore no acquired virtue
can be in us by habituation.

Obj. 2: Further, sin and virtue are contraries, so that they are incompatible. Now man cannot
avoid sin except by the grace of God, according to Wis. 8:21: "I knew that I could not otherwise
be continent, except God gave it." Therefore neither can any virtues be caused in us by habituation,
but only by the gift of God.

Obj. 3: Further, actions which lead toward virtue, lack the perfection of virtue. But an effect
cannot be more perfect than its cause. Therefore a virtue cannot be caused by actions that
precede it.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that good is more efficacious than evil. But
vicious habits are caused by evil acts. Much more, therefore, can virtuous habits be caused
by good acts.

I answer that, We have spoken above (Q. 51, AA. 2, 3) in a general way about the production
of habits from acts; and speaking now in a special way of this matter in relation to virtue,
we must take note that, as stated above (Q. 55, AA. 3, 4), man's virtue perfects him in relation
to good. Now this rule is twofold, as stated above (Q. 19, AA. 3, 4), viz. human reason and
Divine Law. And since Divine Law is the higher rule, it extends to more things, so that whatever
is ruled by human reason, is ruled by the Divine Law too; but the converse does not hold.

It follows that human virtue directed to the good which is defined according to the rule of
human reason can be caused by human acts: inasmuch as such acts proceed from reason, by whose
power and rule the aforesaid good is established. On the other hand, virtue which directs man
to good as defined by the Divine Law, and not by human reason, cannot be caused by human acts,
the principle of which is reason, but is produced in us by the Divine operation alone. Hence
Augustine in giving the definition of the latter virtue inserts the words, "which God works
in us without us" (Super Ps. 118, Serm. xxvi). It is also of these virtues that the First Objection
holds good.

Reply Obj. 2: Mortal sin is incompatible with divinely infused virtue, especially if this be
considered in its perfect state. But actual sin, even mortal, is compatible with humanly acquired
virtue; because the use of a habit in us is subject to our will, as stated above (Q. 49, A.
3): and one sinful act does not destroy a habit of acquired virtue, since it is not an act
but a habit, that is directly contrary to a habit. Wherefore, though man cannot avoid mortal
sin without grace, so as never to sin mortally, yet he is not hindered from acquiring a habit
of virtue, whereby he may abstain from evil in the majority of cases, and chiefly in matters
most opposed to reason. There are also certain mortal sins which man can nowise avoid without
grace, those, namely, which are directly opposed to the theological virtues, which are in us
through the gift of grace. This, however, will be more fully explained later (Q. 109, A. 4).

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (A. 1; Q. 51, A. 1), certain seeds or principles of acquired
virtue pre-exist in us by nature. These principles are more excellent than the virtues acquired
through them: thus the understanding of speculative principles is more excellent than the science
of conclusions, and the natural rectitude of the reason is more excellent than the rectification
of the appetite which results through the appetite partaking of reason, which rectification
belongs to moral virtue. Accordingly human acts, in so far as they proceed from higher principles,
can cause acquired human virtues.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 63, Art. 3]

Whether Any Moral Virtues Are in Us by Infusion?

Objection 1: It would seem that no virtues besides the theological virtues are infused in us
by God. Because God does not do by Himself, save perhaps sometimes miraculously, those things
that can be done by second causes; for, as Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. iv), "it is God's rule
to bring about extremes through the mean." Now intellectual and moral virtues can be caused
in us by our acts, as stated above (A. 2). Therefore it is not reasonable that they should
be caused in us by infusion.

Obj. 2: Further, much less superfluity is found in God's works than in the works of nature.
Now the theological virtues suffice to direct us to supernatural good. Therefore there are
no other supernatural virtues needing to be caused in us by God.

Obj. 3: Further, nature does not employ two means where one suffices: much less does God. But
God sowed the seeds of virtue in our souls, according to a gloss on Heb. 1 [*Cf. Jerome on
Gal. 1: 15, 16]. Therefore it is unfitting for Him to cause in us other virtues by means of
infusion. Now all virtues, intellectual and moral, that are acquired by our actions, arise
from certain natural principles pre-existing in us, as above stated (A. 1; Q. 51, A. 1): instead
of which natural principles, God bestows on us the theological virtues, whereby we are directed
to a supernatural end, as stated (Q. 62, A. 1). Wherefore we need to receive from God other
habits corresponding, in due proportion, to the theological virtues, which habits are to the
theological virtues, what the moral and intellectual virtues are to the natural principles
of virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Some moral and intellectual virtues can indeed be caused in us by our actions:
but such are not proportionate to the theological virtues. Therefore it was necessary for us
to receive, from God immediately, others that are proportionate to these virtues.

Reply Obj. 2: The theological virtues direct us sufficiently to our supernatural end, inchoatively:
i.e. to God Himself immediately. But the soul needs further to be perfected by infused virtues
in regard to other things, yet in relation to God.

Reply Obj. 3: The power of those naturally instilled principles does not extend beyond the
capacity of nature. Consequently man needs in addition to be perfected by other principles
in relation to his supernatural end.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 63, Art. 4]

Whether Virtue by Habituation Belongs to the Same Species As Infused Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that infused virtue does not differ in species from acquired virtue.
Because acquired and infused virtues, according to what has been said (A. 3), do not differ
seemingly, save in relation to the last end. Now human habits and acts are specified, not by
their last, but by their proximate end. Therefore the infused moral or intellectual virtue
does not differ from the acquired virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, habits are known by their acts. But the act of infused and acquired temperance
is the same, viz. to moderate desires of touch. Therefore they do not differ in species.

Obj. 3: Further, acquired and infused virtue differ as that which is wrought by God immediately,
from that which is wrought by a creature. But the man whom God made, is of the same species
as a man begotten naturally; and the eye which He gave to the man born blind, as one produced
by the power of generation. Therefore it seems that acquired and infused virtue belong to the
same species.

On the contrary, Any change introduced into the difference expressed in a definition involves
a difference of species. But the definition of infused virtue contains the words, "which God
works in us without us," as stated above (Q. 55, A. 4). Therefore acquired virtue, to which
these words cannot apply, is not of the same species as infused virtue.

I answer that, There is a twofold specific difference among habits. The first, as stated above
(Q. 54, A. 2; Q. 56, A. 2; Q. 60, A. 1), is taken from the specific and formal aspects of their
objects. Now the object of every virtue is a good considered as in that virtue's proper matter:
thus the object of temperance is a good in respect of the pleasures connected with the concupiscence
of touch. The formal aspect of this object is from reason which fixes the mean in these concupiscences:
while the material element is something on the part of the concupiscences. Now it is evident
that the mean that is appointed in such like concupiscences according to the rule of human
reason, is seen under a different aspect from the mean which is fixed according to Divine rule.
For instance, in the consumption of food, the mean fixed by human reason, is that food should
not harm the health of the body, nor hinder the use of reason: whereas, according to the Divine
rule, it behooves man to "chastise his body, and bring it into subjection" (1 Cor. 9:27), by
abstinence in food, drink and the like. It is therefore evident that infused and acquired temperance
differ in species; and the same applies to the other virtues.

The other specific difference among habits is taken from the things to which they are directed:
for a man's health and a horse's are not of the same species, on account of the difference
between the natures to which their respective healths are directed. In the same sense, the
Philosopher says (Polit. iii, 3) that citizens have diverse virtues according as they are well
directed to diverse forms of government. In the same way, too, those infused moral virtues,
whereby men behave well in respect of their being "fellow-citizens with the saints, and of
the household [Douay: 'domestics'] of God" (Eph. 2:19), differ from the acquired virtues, whereby
man behaves well in respect of human affairs.

Reply Obj. 1: Infused and acquired virtue differ not only in relation to the ultimate end,
but also in relation to their proper objects, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: Both acquired and infused temperance moderate desires for pleasures of touch,
but for different reasons, as stated: wherefore their respective acts are not identical.

Reply Obj. 3: God gave the man born blind an eye for the same act as the act for which other
eyes are formed naturally: consequently it was of the same species. It would be the same if
God wished to give a man miraculously virtues, such as those that are acquired by acts. But
the case is not so in the question before us, as stated.

QUESTION 64

OF THE MEAN OF VIRTUE (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the properties of virtues: and (1) the mean of virtue, (2) the connection
between virtues, (3) equality of virtues, (4) the duration of virtues. Under the first head
there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether moral virtue observes the mean?

(2) Whether the mean of moral virtue is the real mean or the rational mean?

(3) Whether the intellectual virtues observe the mean?

(4) Whether the theological virtues do?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 64, Art. 1]

Whether Moral Virtues Observe the Mean?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral virtue does not observe the mean. For the nature of a
mean is incompatible with that which is extreme. Now the nature of virtue is to be something
extreme; for it is stated in De Coelo i that "virtue is the limit of power." Therefore moral
virtue does not observe the mean.

Obj. 2: Further, the maximum is not a mean. Now some moral virtues tend to a maximum: for instance,
magnanimity to very great honors, and magnificence to very large expenditure, as stated in
Ethic. iv, 2, 3. Therefore not every moral virtue observes the mean.

Obj. 3: Further, if it is essential to a moral virtue to observe the mean, it follows that
a moral virtue is not perfected, but the contrary corrupted, through tending to something extreme.
Now some moral virtues are perfected by tending to something extreme; thus virginity, which
abstains from all sexual pleasure, observes the extreme, and is the most perfect chastity:
and to give all to the poor is the most perfect mercy or liberality. Therefore it seems that
it is not essential to moral virtue that it should observe the mean.

I answer that, As already explained (Q. 55, A. 3), the nature of virtue is that it should direct
man to good. Now moral virtue is properly a perfection of the appetitive part of the soul in
regard to some determinate matter: and the measure or rule of the appetitive movement in respect
of appetible objects is the reason. But the good of that which is measured or ruled consists
in its conformity with its rule: thus the good things made by art is that they follow the rule
of art. Consequently, in things of this sort, evil consists in discordance from their rule
or measure. Now this may happen either by their exceeding the measure or by their falling short
of it; as is clearly the case in all things ruled or measured. Hence it is evident that the
good of moral virtue consists in conformity with the rule of reason. Now it is clear that between
excess and deficiency the mean is equality or conformity. Therefore it is evident that moral
virtue observes the mean.

Reply Obj. 1: Moral virtue derives goodness from the rule of reason, while its matter consists
in passions or operations. If therefore we compare moral virtue to reason, then, if we look
at that which it has of reason, it holds the position of one extreme, viz. conformity; while
excess and defect take the position of the other extreme, viz. deformity. But if we consider
moral virtue in respect of its matter, then it holds the position of mean, in so far as it
makes the passion conform to the rule of reason. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 6)
that "virtue, as to its essence, is a mean state," in so far as the rule of virtue is imposed
on its proper matter: "but it is an extreme in reference to the 'best' and the 'excellent,
'" viz. as to its conformity with reason.

Reply Obj. 2: In actions and passions the mean and the extremes depend on various circumstances:
hence nothing hinders something from being extreme in a particular virtue as to one circumstance,
while the same thing is a mean in respect of other circumstances, through being in conformity
with reason. This is the case with magnanimity and magnificence. For if we look at the absolute
quantity of the respective objects of these virtues, we shall call it an extreme and a maximum:
but if we consider the quantity in relation to other circumstances, then it has the character
of a mean: since these virtues tend to this maximum in accordance with the rule of reason,
i.e. where it is right, when it is right, and for an end that is right. There will be excess,
if one tends to this maximum when it is not right, or where it is not right, or for an undue
end; and there will be deficiency if one fails to tend thereto where one ought, and when one
ought. This agrees with the saying of the Philosopher (Ethic. iv, 3) that the "magnanimous
man observes the extreme in quantity, but the mean in the right mode of his action."

Reply Obj. 3: The same is to be said of virginity and poverty as of magnanimity. For virginity
abstains from all sexual matters, and poverty from all wealth, for a right end, and in a right
manner, i.e. according to God's word, and for the sake of eternal life. But if this be done
in an undue manner, i.e. out of unlawful superstition, or again for vainglory, it will be in
excess. And if it be not done when it ought to be done, or as it ought to be done, it is a
vice by deficiency: for instance, in those who break their vows of virginity or poverty.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 64, Art. 2]

Whether the Mean of Moral Virtue Is the Real Mean, or the Rational Mean?

Objection 1: It would seem that the mean of moral virtue is not the rational mean, but the
real mean. For the good of moral virtue consists in its observing the mean. Now, good, as stated
in Metaph. ii, text. 8, is in things themselves. Therefore the mean of moral virtue is a real mean.

Obj. 2: Further, the reason is a power of apprehension. But moral virtue does not observe a
mean between apprehensions, but rather a mean between operations or passions. Therefore the
mean of moral virtue is not the rational, but the real mean.

Obj. 3: Further, a mean that is observed according to arithmetical or geometrical proportion
is a real mean. Now such is the mean of justice, as stated in Ethic. v, 3. Therefore the mean
of moral virtue is not the rational, but the real mean.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 6) that "moral virtue observes the mean fixed,
in our regard, by reason."

I answer that, The rational mean can be understood in two ways. First, according as the mean
is observed in the act itself of reason, as though the very act of reason were made to observe
the mean: in this sense, since moral virtue perfects not the act of reason, but the act of
the appetitive power, the mean of moral virtue is not the rational mean. Secondly, the mean
of reason may be considered as that which the reason puts into some particular matter. In this
sense every mean of moral virtue is a rational mean, since, as above stated (A. 1), moral virtue
is said to observe the mean, through conformity with right reason.

But it happens sometimes that the rational mean is also the real mean: in which case the mean
of moral virtue is the real mean, for instance, in justice. On the other hand, sometimes the
rational mean is not the real mean, but is considered in relation to us: and such is the mean
in all the other moral virtues. The reason for this is that justice is about operations, which
deal with external things, wherein the right has to be established simply and absolutely, as
stated above (Q. 60, A. 2): wherefore the rational mean in justice is the same as the real
mean, in so far, to wit as justice gives to each one his due, neither more nor less. But the
other moral virtues deal with interior passions wherein the right cannot be established in
the same way, since men are variously situated in relation to their passions; hence the rectitude
of reason has to be established in the passions, with due regard to us, who are moved in respect
of the passions.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections. For the first two arguments take the rational
mean as being in the very act of reason, while the third argues from the mean of justice.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 64, Art. 3]

Whether the Intellectual Virtues Observe the Mean?

Objection 1: It would seem that the intellectual virtues do not observe the mean. Because moral
virtue observes the mean by conforming to the rule of reason. But the intellectual virtues
are in reason itself, so that they seem to have no higher rule. Therefore the intellectual
virtues do not observe the mean.

Obj. 2: Further, the mean of moral virtue is fixed by an intellectual virtue: for it is stated
in Ethic. ii, 6, that "virtue observes the mean appointed by reason, as a prudent man would
appoint it." If therefore intellectual virtue also observe the mean, this mean will have to
be appointed for them by another virtue, so that there would be an indefinite series of virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, a mean is, properly speaking, between contraries, as the Philosopher explains
(Metaph. x, text. 22, 23). But there seems to be no contrariety in the intellect; since contraries
themselves, as they are in the intellect, are not in opposition to one another, but are understood
together, as white and black, healthy and sick. Therefore there is no mean in the intellectual
virtues.

On the contrary, Art is an intellectual virtue; and yet there is a mean in art (Ethic. ii,
6). Therefore also intellectual virtue observes the mean.

I answer that, The good of anything consists in its observing the mean, by conforming with
a rule or measure in respect of which it may happen to be excessive or deficient, as stated
above (A. 1). Now intellectual virtue, like moral virtue, is directed to the good, as stated
above (Q. 56, A. 3). Hence the good of an intellectual virtue consists in observing the mean,
in so far as it is subject to a measure. Now the good of intellectual virtue is the true; in
the case of contemplative virtue, it is the true taken absolutely (Ethic. vi, 2); in the case
of practical virtue, it is the true in conformity with a right appetite.

Now truth apprehended by our intellect, if we consider it absolutely, is measured by things;
since things are the measure of our intellect, as stated in Metaph. x, text. 5; because there
is truth in what we think or say, according as the thing is so or not. Accordingly the good
of speculative intellectual virtue consists in a certain mean, by way of conformity with things
themselves, in so far as the intellect expresses them as being what they are, or as not being
what they are not: and it is in this that the nature of truth consists. There will be excess
if something false is affirmed, as though something were, which in reality it is not: and there
will be deficiency if something is falsely denied, and declared not to be, whereas in reality
it is.

The truth of practical intellectual virtue, if we consider it in relation to things, is by
way of that which is measured; so that both in practical and in speculative intellectual virtues,
the mean consists in conformity with things. But if we consider it in relation to the appetite,
it has the character of a rule and measure. Consequently the rectitude of reason is the mean
of moral virtue, and also the mean of prudence--of prudence as ruling and measuring, of moral
virtue, as ruled and measured by that mean. In like manner the difference between excess and
deficiency is to be applied in both cases.

Reply Obj. 1: Intellectual virtues also have their measure, as stated, and they observe the
mean according as they conform to that measure.

Reply Obj. 2: There is no need for an indefinite series of virtues: because the measure and
rule of intellectual virtue is not another kind of virtue, but things themselves.

Reply Obj. 3: The things themselves that are contrary have no contrariety in the mind, because
one is the reason for knowing the other: nevertheless there is in the intellect contrariety
of affirmation and negation, which are contraries, as stated at the end of Peri Hermen[e]ias.
For though "to be" and "not to be" are not in contrary, but in contradictory opposition to
one another, so long as we consider their signification in things themselves, for on the one
hand we have "being" and on the other we have simply "non-being"; yet if we refer them to the
act of the mind, there is something positive in both cases. Hence "to be" and "not to be" are
contradictory: but the opinion stating that "good is good" is contrary to the opinion stating
that "good is not good": and between two such contraries intellectual virtue observes the mean.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 64, Art. 4]

Whether the Theological Virtues Observe the Mean?

Objection 1: It would seem that theological virtue observes the mean. For the good of other
virtues consists in their observing the mean. Now the theological virtues surpass the others
in goodness. Therefore much more does theological virtue observe the mean.

Obj. 2: Further, the mean of moral virtue depends on the appetite being ruled by reason; while
the mean of intellectual virtue consists in the intellect being measured by things. Now theological
virtue perfects both intellect and appetite, as stated above (Q. 62, A. 3). Therefore theological
virtue also observes the mean.

Obj. 3: Further, hope, which is a theological virtue, is a mean between despair and presumption.
Likewise faith holds a middle course between contrary heresies, as Boethius states (De Duab.
Natur. vii): thus, by confessing one Person and two natures in Christ, we observe the mean
between the heresy of Nestorius, who maintained the existence of two persons and two natures,
and the heresy of Eutyches, who held to one person and one nature. Therefore theological virtue
observes the mean.

On the contrary, Wherever virtue observes the mean it is possible to sin by excess as well
as by deficiency. But there is no sinning by excess against God, Who is the object of theological
virtue: for it is written (Ecclus. 43:33): "Blessing the Lord, exalt Him as much as you can:
for He is above all praise." Therefore theological virtue does not observe the mean.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the mean of virtue depends on conformity with virtue's
rule or measure, in so far as one may exceed or fall short of that rule. Now the measure of
theological virtue may be twofold. One is taken from the very nature of virtue, and thus the
measure and rule of theological virtue is God Himself: because our faith is ruled according
to Divine truth; charity, according to His goodness; hope, according to the immensity of His
omnipotence and loving kindness. This measure surpasses all human power: so that never can
we love God as much as He ought to be loved, nor believe and hope in Him as much as we should.
Much less therefore can there be excess in such things. Accordingly the good of such virtues
does not consist in a mean, but increases the more we approach to the summit.

The other rule or measure of theological virtue is by comparison with us: for although we cannot
be borne towards God as much as we ought, yet we should approach to Him by believing, hoping
and loving, according to the measure of our condition. Consequently it is possible to find
a mean and extremes in theological virtue, accidentally and in reference to us.

Reply Obj. 1: The good of intellectual and moral virtues consists in a mean of reason by conformity
with a measure that may be exceeded: whereas this is not so in the case of theological virtue,
considered in itself, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Moral and intellectual virtues perfect our intellect and appetite in relation
to a created measure and rule; whereas the theological virtues perfect them in relation to
an uncreated rule and measure. Wherefore the comparison fails.

Reply Obj. 3: Hope observes the mean between presumption and despair, in relation to us, in
so far, to wit, as a man is said to be presumptuous, through hoping to receive from God a good
in excess of his condition; or to despair through failing to hope for that which according
to his condition he might hope for. But there can be no excess of hope in comparison with God,
Whose goodness is infinite. In like manner faith holds a middle course between contrary heresies,
not by comparison with its object, which is God, in Whom we cannot believe too much; but in
so far as human opinion itself takes a middle position between contrary opinions, as was explained
above.

QUESTION 65

OF THE CONNECTION OF VIRTUES (In Five Articles)

We must now consider the connection of virtues: under which head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the moral virtues are connected with one another?

(2) Whether the moral virtues can be without charity?

(3) Whether charity can be without them?

(4) Whether faith and hope can be without charity?

(5) Whether charity can be without them?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 65, Art. 1]

Whether the Moral Virtues Are Connected with One Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that the moral virtues are not connected with one another. Because
moral virtues are sometimes caused by the exercise of acts, as is proved in Ethic. ii, 1, 2.
But man can exercise himself in the acts of one virtue, without exercising himself in the acts
of some other virtue. Therefore it is possible to have one moral virtue without another.

Obj. 2: Further, magnificence and magnanimity are moral virtues. Now a man may have other moral
virtues without having magnificence or magnanimity: for the Philosopher says (Ethic. iv, 2,
3) that "a poor man cannot be magnificent," and yet he may have other virtues; and (Ethic.
iv) that "he who is worthy of small things, and so accounts his worth, is modest, but not magnanimous."
Therefore the moral virtues are not connected with one another.

Obj. 3: Further, as the moral virtues perfect the appetitive part of the soul, so do the intellectual
virtues perfect the intellective part. But the intellectual virtues are not mutually connected:
since we may have one science, without having another. Neither, therefore, are the moral virtues
connected with one another.

Obj. 4: Further, if the moral virtues are mutually connected, this can only be because they
are united together in prudence. But this does not suffice to connect the moral virtues together.
For, seemingly, one may be prudent about things to be done in relation to one virtue, without
being prudent in those that concern another virtue: even as one may have the art of making
certain things, without the art of making certain others. Now prudence is right reason about
things to be done. Therefore the moral virtues are not necessarily connected with one another.

On the contrary, Ambrose says on Luke 6:20: "The virtues are connected and linked together,
so that whoever has one, is seen to have several": and Augustine says (De Trin. vi, 4) that
"the virtues that reside in the human mind are quite inseparable from one another": and Gregory
says (Moral. xxii, 1) that "one virtue without the other is either of no account whatever,
or very imperfect": and Cicero says (Quaest. Tusc. ii): "If you confess to not having one particular
virtue, it must needs be that you have none at all."

I answer that, Moral virtue may be considered either as perfect or as imperfect. An imperfect
moral virtue, temperance for instance, or fortitude, is nothing but an inclination in us to
do some kind of good deed, whether such inclination be in us by nature or by habituation. If
we take the moral virtues in this way, they are not connected: since we find men who, by natural
temperament or by being accustomed, are prompt in doing deeds of liberality, but are not prompt
in doing deeds of chastity.

But the perfect moral virtue is a habit that inclines us to do a good deed well; and if we
take moral virtues in this way, we must say that they are connected, as nearly as all are agreed
in saying. For this two reasons are given, corresponding to the different ways of assigning
the distinction of the cardinal virtues. For, as we stated above (Q. 61, AA. 3, 4), some distinguish
them according to certain general properties of the virtues: for instance, by saying that discretion
belongs to prudence, rectitude to justice, moderation to temperance, and strength of mind to
fortitude, in whatever matter we consider these properties to be. In this way the reason for
the connection is evident: for strength of mind is not commended as virtuous, if it be without
moderation or rectitude or discretion: and so forth. This, too, is the reason assigned for
the connection by Gregory, who says (Moral. xxii, 1) that "a virtue cannot be perfect" as a
virtue, "if isolated from the others: for there can be no true prudence without temperance,
justice and fortitude": and he continues to speak in like manner of the other virtues (cf.
Q. 61, A. 4, Obj. 1). Augustine also gives the same reason (De Trin. vi, 4).

Others, however, differentiate these virtues in respect of their matters, and it is in this
way that Aristotle assigns the reason for their connection (Ethic. vi, 13). Because, as stated
above (Q. 58, A. 4), no moral virtue can be without prudence; since it is proper to moral virtue
to make a right choice, for it is an elective habit. Now right choice requires not only the
inclination to a due end, which inclination is the direct outcome of moral virtue, but also
correct choice of things conducive to the end, which choice is made by prudence, that counsels,
judges, and commands in those things that are directed to the end. In like manner one cannot
have prudence unless one has the moral virtues: since prudence is "right reason about things
to be done," and the starting point of reason is the end of the thing to be done, to which
end man is rightly disposed by moral virtue. Hence, just as we cannot have speculative science
unless we have the understanding of the principles, so neither can we have prudence without
the moral virtues: and from this it follows clearly that the moral virtues are connected with
one another.

Reply Obj. 1: Some moral virtues perfect man as regards his general state, in other words,
with regard to those things which have to be done in every kind of human life. Hence man needs
to exercise himself at the same time in the matters of all moral virtues. And if he exercise
himself, by good deeds, in all such matters, he will acquire the habits of all the moral virtues.
But if he exercise himself by good deeds in regard to one matter, but not in regard to another,
for instance, by behaving well in matters of anger, but not in matters of concupiscence; he
will indeed acquire a certain habit of restraining his anger; but this habit will lack the
nature of virtue, through the absence of prudence, which is wanting in matters of concupiscence.
In the same way, natural inclinations fail to have the complete character of virtue, if prudence
be lacking.

But there are some moral virtues which perfect man with regard to some eminent state, such
as magnificence and magnanimity; and since it does not happen to all in common to be exercised
in the matter of such virtues, it is possible for a man to have the other moral virtues, without
actually having the habits of these virtues--provided we speak of acquired virtue. Nevertheless,
when once a man has acquired those other virtues he possesses these in proximate potentiality.
Because when, by practice, a man has acquired liberality in small gifts and expenditure, if
he were to come in for a large sum of money, he would acquire the habit of magnificence with
but little practice: even as a geometrician, by dint of little study, acquires scientific knowledge
about some conclusion which had never been presented to his mind before. Now we speak of having
a thing when we are on the point of having it, according to the saying of the Philosopher (Phys.
ii, text. 56): "That which is scarcely lacking is not lacking at all."

This suffices for the Reply to the Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: The intellectual virtues are about divers matters having no relation to one another,
as is clearly the case with the various sciences and arts. Hence we do not observe in them
the connection that is to be found among the moral virtues, which are about passions and operations,
that are clearly related to one another. For all the passions have their rise in certain initial
passions, viz. love and hatred, and terminate in certain others, viz. pleasure and sorrow.
In like manner all the operations that are the matter of moral virtue are related to one another,
and to the passions. Hence the whole matter of moral virtues falls under the one rule of prudence.

Nevertheless, all intelligible things are related to first principles. And in this way, all
the intellectual virtues depend on the understanding of principles; even as prudence depends
on the moral virtues, as stated. On the other hand, the universal principles which are the
object of the virtue of understanding of principles, do not depend on the conclusions, which
are the objects of the other intellectual virtues, as do the moral virtues depend on prudence,
because the appetite, in a fashion, moves the reason, and the reason the appetite, as stated
above (Q. 9, A. 1; Q. 58, A. 5, ad 1).

Reply Obj. 4: Those things to which the moral virtues incline, are as the principles of prudence:
whereas the products of art are not the principles, but the matter of art. Now it is evident
that, though reason may be right in one part of the matter, and not in another, yet in no way
can it be called right reason, if it be deficient in any principle whatever. Thus, if a man
be wrong about the principle, "A whole is greater than its part," he cannot acquire the science
of geometry, because he must necessarily wander from the truth in his conclusion. Moreover,
things done are related to one another, but not things made, as stated above (ad 3). Consequently
the lack of prudence in one department of things to be done, would result in a deficiency affecting
other things to be done: whereas this does not occur in things to be made.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 65, Art. 2]

Whether Moral Virtues Can Be Without Charity?

Objection 1: It would seem that moral virtues can be without charity. For it is stated in the
Liber Sentent. Prosperi vii, that "every virtue save charity may be common to the good and
bad." But "charity can be in none except the good," as stated in the same book. Therefore the
other virtues can be had without charity.

Obj. Therefore it is possible to have the other virtues without charity.

Obj. 3: Further, the moral virtues are connected together, through depending on prudence. But
charity does not depend on prudence; indeed, it surpasses prudence, according to Eph. 3:19:
"The charity of Christ, which surpasseth all knowledge." Therefore the moral virtues are not
connected with charity, and can be without it. Now the spiritual life is perfected by the virtues,
since it is "by them" that "we lead a good life," as Augustine states (De Lib. Arb. ii, 17,
19). Therefore they cannot be without the love of charity.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 63, A. 2), it is possible by means of human works to acquire
moral virtues, in so far as they produce good works that are directed to an end not surpassing
the natural power of man: and when they are acquired thus, they can be without charity, even
as they were in many of the Gentiles. But in so far as they produce good works in proportion
to a supernatural last end, thus they have the character of virtue, truly and perfectly; and
cannot be acquired by human acts, but are infused by God. Such like moral virtues cannot be
without charity. For it has been stated above (A. 1; Q. 58, AA. 4, 5) that the other moral
virtues cannot be without prudence; and that prudence cannot be without the moral virtues,
because these latter make man well disposed to certain ends, which are the starting-point of
the procedure of prudence. Now for prudence to proceed aright, it is much more necessary that
man be well disposed towards his ultimate end, which is the effect of charity, than that he
be well disposed in respect of other ends, which is the effect of moral virtue: just as in
speculative matters right reason has greatest need of the first indemonstrable principle, that
"contradictories cannot both be true at the same time." It is therefore evident that neither
can infused prudence be without charity; nor, consequently, the other moral virtues, since
they cannot be without prudence.

It is therefore clear from what has been said that only the infused virtues are perfect, and
deserve to be called virtues simply: since they direct man well to the ultimate end. But the
other virtues, those, namely, that are acquired, are virtues in a restricted sense, but not
simply: for they direct man well in respect of the last end in some particular genus of action,
but not in respect of the last end simply. Hence a gloss of Augustine [*Cf. Lib. Sentent. Prosperi
cvi.] on the words, "All that is not of faith is sin" (Rom. 14:23), says: "He that fails to
acknowledge the truth, has no true virtue, even if his conduct be good."

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue, in the words quoted, denotes imperfect virtue. Else if we take moral
virtue in its perfect state, "it makes its possessor good," and consequently cannot be in the
wicked.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument holds good of virtue in the sense of acquired virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: Though charity surpasses science and prudence, yet prudence depends on charity,
as stated: and consequently so do all the infused moral virtues.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 65, Art. 3]

Whether Charity Can Be Without Moral Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem possible to have charity without the moral virtues. For when one
thing suffices for a certain purpose, it is superfluous to employ others. Now charity alone
suffices for the fulfilment of all the works of virtue, as is clear from 1 Cor. 13:4, seqq.:
"Charity is patient, is kind," etc. Therefore it seems that if one has charity, other virtues
are superfluous.

Obj. 2: Further, he that has a habit of virtue easily performs the works of that virtue, and
those works are pleasing to him for their own sake: hence "pleasure taken in a work is a sign
of habit" (Ethic. ii, 3). Now many have charity, being free from mortal sin, and yet they find
it difficult to do works of virtue; nor are these works pleasing to them for their own sake,
but only for the sake of charity. Therefore many have charity without the other virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, charity is to be found in every saint: and yet there are some saints who are
without certain virtues. For Bede says (on Luke 17:10) that the saints are more humbled on
account of their not having certain virtues, than rejoiced at the virtues they have. Therefore,
if a man has charity, it does not follow of necessity that he has all the moral virtues. Now
it is not possible to fulfil the whole Law, without having all the moral virtues: since the
law contains precepts about all acts of virtue, as stated in Ethic. v, 1, 2. Therefore he that
has charity, has all the moral virtues. Moreover, Augustine says in a letter (Epis. clxvii)
[*Cf. Serm. xxxix and xlvi de Temp.] that charity contains all the cardinal virtues.

I answer that, All the moral virtues are infused together with charity. The reason for this
is that God operates no less perfectly in works of grace than in works of nature. Now, in the
works of nature, we find that whenever a thing contains a principle of certain works, it has
also whatever is necessary for their execution: thus animals are provided with organs whereby
to perform the actions that their souls empower them to do. Now it is evident that charity,
inasmuch as it directs man to his last end, is the principle of all the good works that are
referable to his last end. Wherefore all the moral virtues must needs be infused together with
charity, since it is through them that man performs each different kind of good work.

It is therefore clear that the infused moral virtues are connected, not only through prudence,
but also on account of charity: and, again, that whoever loses charity through mortal sin,
forfeits all the infused moral virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: In order that the act of a lower power be perfect, not only must there be perfection
in the higher, but also in the lower power: for if the principal agent were well disposed,
perfect action would not follow, if the instrument also were not well disposed. Consequently,
in order that man work well in things referred to the end, he needs not only a virtue disposing
him well to the end, but also those virtues which dispose him well to whatever is referred
to the end: for the virtue which regards the end is the chief and moving principle in respect
of those things that are referred to the end. Therefore it is necessary to have the moral virtues
together with charity.

Reply Obj. 2: It happens sometimes that a man who has a habit, finds it difficult to act in
accordance with the habit, and consequently feels no pleasure and complacency in the act, on
account of some impediment supervening from without: thus a man who has a habit of science,
finds it difficult to understand, through being sleepy or unwell. In like manner sometimes
the habits of moral virtue experience difficulty in their works, by reason of certain ordinary
dispositions remaining from previous acts. This difficulty does not occur in respect of acquired
moral virtue: because the repeated acts by which they are acquired, remove also the contrary
dispositions.

Reply Obj. 3: Certain saints are said not to have certain virtues, in so far as they experience
difficulty in the acts of those virtues, for the reason stated; although they have the habits
of all the virtues.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 65, Art. 4]

Whether Faith and Hope Can Be Without Charity?

Objection 1: It would seem that faith and hope are never without charity. Because, since they
are theological virtues, they seem to be more excellent than even the infused moral virtues.
But the infused moral virtues cannot be without charity. Neither therefore can faith and hope
be without charity.

Obj. 2: Further, "no man believes unwillingly" as Augustine says (Tract. xxvi in Joan.). But
charity is in the will as a perfection thereof, as stated above (Q. 62, A. 3). Therefore faith
cannot be without charity.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (Enchiridion viii) that "there can be no hope without love."
But love is charity: for it is of this love that he speaks. Therefore hope cannot be without
charity. Now the begetter precedes the begotten, and can be without it. Therefore faith can
be without hope; and hope, without charity.

I answer that, Faith and hope, like the moral virtues, can be considered in two ways; first
in an inchoate state; secondly, as complete virtues. For since virtue is directed to the doing
of good works, perfect virtue is that which gives the faculty of doing a perfectly good work,
and this consists in not only doing what is good, but also in doing it well. Else, if what
is done is good, but not well done, it will not be perfectly good; wherefore neither will the
habit that is the principle of such an act, have the perfect character of virtue. For instance,
if a man do what is just, what he does is good: but it will not be the work of a perfect virtue
unless he do it well, i.e. by choosing rightly, which is the result of prudence; for which
reason justice cannot be a perfect virtue without prudence.

Accordingly faith and hope can exist indeed in a fashion without charity: but they have not
the perfect character of virtue without charity. For, since the act of faith is to believe
in God; and since to believe is to assent to someone of one's own free will: to will not as
one ought, will not be a perfect act of faith. To will as one ought is the outcome of charity
which perfects the will: since every right movement of the will proceeds from a right love,
as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 9). Hence faith may be without charity, but not as a perfect
virtue: just as temperance and fortitude can be without prudence. The same applies to hope.
Because the act of hope consists in looking to God for future bliss. This act is perfect, if
it is based on the merits which we have; and this cannot be without charity. But to expect
future bliss through merits which one has not yet, but which one proposes to acquire at some
future time, will be an imperfect act; and this is possible without charity. Consequently,
faith and hope can be without charity; yet, without charity, they are not virtues properly
so-called; because the nature of virtue requires that by it, we should not only do what is
good, but also that we should do it well (Ethic. ii, 6).

Reply Obj. 1: Moral virtue depends on prudence: and not even infused prudence has the character
of prudence without charity; for this involves the absence of due order to the first principle,
viz. the ultimate end. On the other hand faith and hope, as such, do not depend either on prudence
or charity; so that they can be without charity, although they are not virtues without charity,
as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument is true of faith considered as a perfect virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: Augustine is speaking here of that hope whereby we look to gain future bliss
through merits which we have already; and this is not without charity.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 65, Art. 5]

Whether Charity Can Be Without Faith and Hope?

Objection 1: It would seem that charity can be without faith and hope. For charity is the love
of God. But it is possible for us to love God naturally, without already having faith, or hope
in future bliss. Therefore charity can be without faith and hope.

Obj. Now the root is sometimes without branches. Therefore charity can sometimes be without
faith and hope, and the other virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, there was perfect charity in Christ. And yet He had neither faith nor hope:
because He was a perfect comprehensor, as we shall explain further on (III, Q. 7, AA. 3, 4).
Therefore charity can be without faith and hope.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Heb. 11:6): "Without faith it is impossible to please God";
and this evidently belongs most to charity, according to Prov. 8:17: "I love them that love
me." Again, it is by hope that we are brought to charity, as stated above (Q. 62, A. 4). Therefore
it is not possible to have charity without faith and hope.

I answer that, Charity signifies not only the love of God, but also a certain friendship with
Him; which implies, besides love, a certain mutual return of love, together with mutual communion,
as stated in Ethic. viii, 2. Now this fellowship of man with God, which consists in a certain
familiar colloquy with Him, is begun here, in this life, by grace, but will be perfected in
the future life, by glory; each of which things we hold by faith and hope. Wherefore just as
friendship with a person would be impossible, if one disbelieved in, or despaired of, the possibility
of their fellowship or familiar colloquy; so too, friendship with God, which is charity, is
impossible without faith, so as to believe in this fellowship and colloquy with God, and to
hope to attain to this fellowship. Therefore charity is quite impossible without faith and hope.

Reply Obj. 1: Charity is not any kind of love of God, but that love of God, by which He is
loved as the object of bliss, to which object we are directed by faith and hope.

Reply Obj. 2: Charity is the root of faith and hope, in so far as it gives them the perfection
of virtue. But faith and hope as such are the precursors of charity, as stated above (Q. 62,
A. 4), and so charity is impossible without them.

Reply Obj. 3: In Christ there was neither faith nor hope, on account of their implying an imperfection.
But instead of faith, He had manifest vision, and instead of hope, full comprehension [*See
above, Q. 4, A. 3]: so that in Him was perfect charity.

QUESTION 66

OF EQUALITY AMONG THE VIRTUES (In Six Articles)

We must now consider equality among the virtues: under which head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether one virtue can be greater or less than another?

(2) Whether all the virtues existing together in one subject are equal?

(3) Of moral virtue in comparison with intellectual virtue;

(4) Of the moral virtues as compared with one another;

(5) Of the intellectual virtues in comparison with one another;

(6) Of the theological virtues in comparison with one another.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 66, Art. 1]

Whether One Virtue Can Be Greater or Less Than Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that one virtue cannot be greater or less than another. For it is
written (Apoc. 21:16) that the sides of the city of Jerusalem are equal; and a gloss says that
the sides denote the virtues. Therefore all virtues are equal; and consequently one cannot
be greater than another.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing that, by its nature, consists in a maximum, cannot be more or less.
Now the nature of virtue consists in a maximum, for virtue is "the limit of power," as the
Philosopher states (De Coelo i, text. 116); and Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. ii, 19) that "virtues
are very great boons, and no one can use them to evil purpose." Therefore it seems that one
virtue cannot be greater or less than another.

Obj. 3: Further, the quantity of an effect is measured by the power of the agent. But perfect,
viz. infused virtues, are from God Whose power is uniform and infinite. Therefore it seems
that one virtue cannot be greater than another.

On the contrary, Wherever there can be increase and greater abundance, there can be inequality.
15:5): "In abundant justice there is the greatest strength (virtus)." Therefore it seems that
a virtue can be greater or less than another.

I answer that, When it is asked whether one virtue can be greater than another, the question
can be taken in two senses. First, as applying to virtues of different species. In this sense
it is clear that one virtue is greater than another; since a cause is always more excellent
than its effect; and among effects, those nearest to the cause are the most excellent. Now
it is clear from what has been said (Q. 18, A. 5; Q. 61, A. 2) that the cause and root of human
good is the reason. Hence prudence which perfects the reason, surpasses in goodness the other
moral virtues which perfect the appetitive power, in so far as it partakes of reason. And among
these, one is better than another, according as it approaches nearer to the reason. Consequently
justice, which is in the will, excels the remaining moral virtues; and fortitude, which is
in the irascible part, stands before temperance, which is in the concupiscible, which has a
smaller share of reason, as stated in Ethic. vii, 6.

The question can be taken in another way, as referring to virtues of the same species. In this
way, according to what was said above (Q. 52, A. 1), when we were treating of the intensity
of habits, virtue may be said to be greater or less in two ways: first, in itself; secondly
with regard to the subject that partakes of it. If we consider it in itself, we shall call
it great or little, according to the things to which it extends. Now whosoever has a virtue,
e.g. temperance, has it in respect of whatever temperance extends to. But this does not apply
to science and art: for every grammarian does not know everything relating to grammar. And
in this sense the Stoics said rightly, as Simplicius states in his Commentary on the Predicaments,
that virtue cannot be more or less, as science and art can; because the nature of virtue consists
in a maximum.

If, however, we consider virtue on the part of the subject, it may then be greater or less,
either in relation to different times, or in different men. Because one man is better disposed
than another to attain to the mean of virtue which is defined by right reason; and this, on
account of either greater habituation, or a better natural disposition, or a more discerning
judgment of reason, or again a greater gift of grace, which is given to each one "according
to the measure of the giving of Christ," as stated in Eph. 4:9. And here the Stoics erred,
for they held that no man should be deemed virtuous, unless he were, in the highest degree,
disposed to virtue. Because the nature of virtue does not require that man should reach the
mean of right reason as though it were an indivisible point, as the Stoics thought; but it
is enough that he should approach the mean, as stated in Ethic. ii, 6. Moreover, one same indivisible
mark is reached more nearly and more readily by one than by another: as may be seen when several
archers aim at a fixed target.

Reply Obj. 1: This equality is not one of absolute quantity, but of proportion: because all
virtues grow in a man proportionately, as we shall see further on (A. 2).

Reply Obj. 2: This "limit" which belongs to virtue, can have the character of something more
or less good, in the ways explained above: since, as stated, it is not an indivisible limit.

Reply Obj. 3: God does not work by necessity of nature, but according to the order of His wisdom,
whereby He bestows on men various measures of virtue, according to Eph. 4:7: "To every one
of you [Vulg.: 'us'] is given grace according to the measure of the giving of Christ."

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 66, Art. 2]

Whether All the Virtues That Are Together in One Man, Are Equal?

Objection 1: It would seem that the virtues in one same man are not all equally intense. For
the Apostle says (1 Cor. 7:7): "Everyone hath his proper gift from God; one after this manner,
and another after that." Now one gift would not be more proper than another to a man, if God
infused all the virtues equally into each man. Therefore it seems that the virtues are not
all equal in one and the same man.

Obj. 2: Further, if all the virtues were equally intense in one and the same man, it would
follow that whoever surpasses another in one virtue, would surpass him in all the others. But
this is clearly not the case: since various saints are specially praised for different virtues;
e.g. Abraham for faith (Rom. 4), Moses for his meekness (Num. 7:3), Job for his patience (Tob.
2:12). This is why of each Confessor the Church sings: "There was not found his like in keeping
the law of the most High," [*See Lesson in the Mass Statuit (Dominican Missal)], since each
one was remarkable for some virtue or other. Therefore the virtues are not all equal in one
and the same man.

Obj. 3: Further, the more intense a habit is, the greater one's pleasure and readiness in making
use of it. Now experience shows that a man is more pleased and ready to make use of one virtue
than of another. Therefore the virtues are not all equal in one and the same man.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. vi, 4) that "those who are equal in fortitude are
equal in prudence and temperance," and so on. Now it would not be so, unless all the virtues
in one man were equal. Therefore all virtues are equal in one man.

I answer that, As explained above (A. 1), the comparative greatness of virtues can be understood
in two ways. First, as referring to their specific nature: and in this way there is no doubt
that in a man one virtue is greater than another, for example, charity, than faith and hope.
Secondly, it may be taken as referring to the degree of participation by the subject, according
as a virtue becomes intense or remiss in its subject. In this sense all the virtues in one
man are equal with an equality of proportion, in so far as their growth in man is equal: thus
the fingers are unequal in size, but equal in proportion, since they grow in proportion to
one another.

Now the nature of this equality is to be explained in the same way as the connection of virtues;
for equality among virtues is their connection as to greatness. Now it has been stated above
(Q. 65, A. 1) that a twofold connection of virtues may be assigned. The first is according
to the opinion of those who understood these four virtues to be four general properties of
virtues, each of which is found together with the other in any matter. In this way virtues
cannot be said to be equal in any matter unless they have all these properties equal. Augustine
alludes to this kind of equality (De Trin. vi, 4) when he says: "If you say these men are equal
in fortitude, but that one is more prudent than the other; it follows that the fortitude of
the latter is less prudent. Consequently they are not really equal in fortitude, since the
former's fortitude is more prudent. You will find that this applies to the other virtues if
you run over them all in the same way."

The other kind of connection among virtues followed the opinion of those who hold these virtues
to have their own proper respective matters (Q. 65, AA. 1, 2). In this way the connection among
moral virtues results from prudence, and, as to the infused virtues, from charity, and not
from the inclination, which is on the part of the subject, as stated above (Q. 65, A. 1). Accordingly
the nature of the equality among virtues can also be considered on the part of prudence, in
regard to that which is formal in all the moral virtues: for in one and the same man, so long
as his reason has the same degree of perfection, the mean will be proportionately defined according
to right reason in each matter of virtue.

But in regard to that which is material in the moral virtues, viz. the inclination to the virtuous
act, one may be readier to perform the act of one virtue, than the act of another virtue, and
this either from nature, or from habituation, or again by the grace of God.

Reply Obj. 1: This saying of the Apostle may be taken to refer to the gifts of gratuitous grace,
which are not common to all, nor are all of them equal in the one same subject. We might also
say that it refers to the measure of sanctifying grace, by reason of which one man has all
the virtues in greater abundance than another man, on account of his greater abundance of prudence,
or also of charity, in which all the infused virtues are connected.

Reply Obj. 2: One saint is praised chiefly for one virtue, another saint for another virtue,
on account of his more admirable readiness for the act of one virtue than for the act of another
virtue.

This suffices for the Reply to the Third Objection.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 66, Art. 3]

Whether the Moral Virtues Are Better Than the Intellectual Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that the moral virtues are better than the intellectual. Because
that which is more necessary, and more lasting, is better. Now the moral virtues are "more
lasting even than the sciences" (Ethic. i) which are intellectual virtues: and, moreover, they
are more necessary for human life. Therefore they are preferable to the intellectual virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue is defined as "that which makes its possessor good." Now man is said
to be good in respect of moral virtue, and art in respect of intellectual virtue, except perhaps
in respect of prudence alone. Therefore moral is better than intellectual virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, the end is more excellent than the means. But according to Ethic. vi, 12,
"moral virtue gives right intention of the end; whereas prudence gives right choice of the
means." Therefore moral virtue is more excellent than prudence, which is the intellectual virtue
that regards moral matters.

On the contrary, Moral virtue is in that part of the soul which is rational by participation;
while intellectual virtue is in the essentially rational part, as stated in Ethic. i, 13. Now
rational by essence is more excellent than rational by participation. Therefore intellectual
virtue is better than moral virtue.

I answer that, A thing may be said to be greater or less in two ways: first, simply; secondly,
relatively. For nothing hinders something from being better simply, e.g. "learning than riches,"
and yet not better relatively, i.e. "for one who is in want" [*Aristotle, Topic. iii.]. Now
to consider a thing simply is to consider it in its proper specific nature. Accordingly, a
virtue takes its species from its object, as explained above (Q. 54, A. 2; Q. 60, A. 1). Hence,
speaking simply, that virtue is more excellent, which has the more excellent object. Now it
is evident that the object of the reason is more excellent than the object of the appetite:
since the reason apprehends things in the universal, while the appetite tends to things themselves,
whose being is restricted to the particular. Consequently, speaking simply, the intellectual
virtues, which perfect the reason, are more excellent than the moral virtues, which perfect
the appetite.

But if we consider virtue in its relation to act, then moral virtue, which perfects the appetite,
whose function it is to move the other powers to act, as stated above (Q. 9, A. 1), is more
excellent. And since virtue is so called from its being a principle of action, for it is the
perfection of a power, it follows again that the nature of virtue agrees more with moral than
with intellectual virtue, though the intellectual virtues are more excellent habits, simply
speaking.

Reply Obj. 1: The moral virtues are more lasting than the intellectual virtues, because they
are practised in matters pertaining to the life of the community. Yet it is evident that the
objects of the sciences, which are necessary and invariable, are more lasting than the objects
of moral virtue, which are certain particular matters of action. That the moral virtues are
more necessary for human life, proves that they are more excellent, not simply, but relatively.
Indeed, the speculative intellectual virtues, from the very fact that they are not referred
to something else, as a useful thing is referred to an end, are more excellent. The reason
for this is that in them we have a kind of beginning of that happiness which consists in the
knowledge of truth, as stated above (Q. 3, A. 6).

Reply Obj. 2: The reason why man is said to be good simply, in respect of moral virtue, but
not in respect of intellectual virtue, is because the appetite moves the other powers to their
acts, as stated above (Q. 56, A. 3). Wherefore this argument, too, proves merely that moral
virtue is better relatively.

Reply Obj. 3: Prudence directs the moral virtues not only in the choice of the means, but also
in appointing the end. Now the end of each moral virtue is to attain the mean in the matter
proper to that virtue; which mean is appointed according to the right ruling of prudence, as
stated in Ethic. ii, 6; vi, 13.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 66, Art. 4]

Whether Justice Is the Chief of the Moral Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that justice is not the chief of the moral virtues. For it is better
to give of one's own than to pay what is due. Now the former belongs to liberality, the latter
to justice. Therefore liberality is apparently a greater virtue than justice.

Obj. 2: Further, the chief quality of a thing is, seemingly, that in which it is most perfect.
Now, according to Jam. 1:4, "Patience hath a perfect work." Therefore it would seem that patience
is greater than justice.

Obj. 3: Further, "Magnanimity has a great influence on every virtue," as stated in Ethic. iv,
3. Therefore it magnifies even justice. Therefore it is greater than justice.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 1) that "justice is the most excellent of
the virtues."

I answer that, A virtue considered in its species may be greater or less, either simply or
relatively. A virtue is said to be greater simply, whereby a greater rational good shines forth,
as stated above (A. 1). In this way justice is the most excellent of all the moral virtues,
as being most akin to reason. This is made evident by considering its subject and its object:
its subject, because this is the will, and the will is the rational appetite, as stated above
(Q. 8, A. 1; Q. 26, A. 1): its object or matter, because it is about operations, whereby man
is set in order not only in himself, but also in regard to another. Hence "justice is the most
excellent of virtues" (Ethic. v, 1). Among the other moral virtues, which are about the passions,
the more excellent the matter in which the appetitive movement is subjected to reason, so much
the more does the rational good shine forth in each. Now in things touching man, the chief
of all is life, on which all other things depend. Consequently fortitude which subjects the
appetitive movement to reason in matters of life and death, holds the first place among those
moral virtues that are about the passions, but is subordinate to justice. Hence the Philosopher
says (Rhet. 1) that "those virtues must needs be greatest which receive the most praise: since
virtue is a power of doing good. Hence the brave man and the just man are honored more than
others; because the former," i.e. fortitude, "is useful in war, and the latter," i.e. justice,
"both in war and in peace." After fortitude comes temperance, which subjects the appetite to
reason in matters directly relating to life, in the one individual, or in the one species,
viz. in matters of food and of sex. And so these three virtues, together with prudence, are
called principal virtues, in excellence also.

A virtue is said to be greater relatively, by reason of its helping or adorning a principal
virtue: even as substance is more excellent simply than accident: and yet relatively some particular
accident is more excellent than substance in so far as it perfects substance in some accidental
mode of being.

Reply Obj. 1: The act of liberality needs to be founded on an act of justice, for "a man is
not liberal in giving, unless he gives of his own" (Polit. ii, 3). Hence there could be no
liberality apart from justice, which discerns between "meum" and "tuum": whereas justice can
be without liberality. Hence justice is simply greater than liberality, as being more universal,
and as being its foundation: while liberality is greater relatively since it is an ornament
and an addition to justice.

Reply Obj. 2: Patience is said to have "a perfect work," by enduring evils, wherein it excludes
not only unjust revenge, which is also excluded by justice; not only hatred, which is also
suppressed by charity; nor only anger, which is calmed by gentleness; but also inordinate sorrow,
which is the root of all the above. Wherefore it is more perfect and excellent through plucking
up the root in this matter. It is not, however, more perfect than all the other virtues simply.
Because fortitude not only endures trouble without being disturbed, but also fights against
it if necessary. Hence whoever is brave is patient; but the converse does not hold, for patience
is a part of fortitude.

Reply Obj. 3: There can be no magnanimity without the other virtues, as stated in Ethic. iv,
3. Hence it is compared to them as their ornament, so that relatively it is greater than all
the others, but not simply.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 66, Art. 5]

Whether Wisdom Is the Greatest of the Intellectual Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that wisdom is not the greatest of the intellectual virtues. Because
the commander is greater than the one commanded. Now prudence seems to command wisdom, for
it is stated in Ethic. i, 2 that political science, which belongs to prudence (Ethic. vi, 8),
"orders that sciences should be cultivated in states, and to which of these each individual
should devote himself, and to what extent." Since, then, wisdom is one of the sciences, it
seems that prudence is greater than wisdom.

Obj. 2: Further, it belongs to the nature of virtue to direct man to happiness: because virtue
is "the disposition of a perfect thing to that which is best," as stated in Phys. vii, text.
17. Now prudence is "right reason about things to be done," whereby man is brought to happiness:
whereas wisdom takes no notice of human acts, whereby man attains happiness. Therefore prudence
is a greater virtue than wisdom.

Obj. 3: Further, the more perfect knowledge is, the greater it seems to be. Now we can have
more perfect knowledge of human affairs, which are the subject of science, than of Divine things,
which are the object of wisdom, which is the distinction given by Augustine (De Trin. xii,
14): because Divine things are incomprehensible, according to Job 26:26: "Behold God is great,
exceeding our knowledge." Therefore science is a greater virtue than wisdom.

Obj. 4: Further, knowledge of principles is more excellent than knowledge of conclusions. But
wisdom draws conclusions from indemonstrable principles which are the object of the virtue
of understanding, even as other sciences do. Therefore understanding is a greater virtue than
wisdom.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. vi, 7) that wisdom is "the head" among "the intellectual
virtues."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), the greatness of a virtue, as to its species, is taken
from its object. Now the object of wisdom surpasses the objects of all the intellectual virtues:
because wisdom considers the Supreme Cause, which is God, as stated at the beginning of the
Metaphysics. And since it is by the cause that we judge of an effect, and by the higher cause
that we judge of the lower effects; hence it is that wisdom exercises judgment over all the
other intellectual virtues, directs them all, and is the architect of them all.

Reply Obj. 1: Since prudence is about human affairs, and wisdom about the Supreme Cause, it
is impossible for prudence to be a greater virtue than wisdom, "unless," as stated in Ethic.
vi, 7, "man were the greatest thing in the world." Wherefore we must say, as stated in the
same book (Ethic. vi), that prudence does not command wisdom, but vice versa: because "the
spiritual man judgeth all things; and he himself is judged by no man" (1 Cor. 2:15). For prudence
has no business with supreme matters which are the object of wisdom: but its command covers
things directed to wisdom, viz. how men are to obtain wisdom. Wherefore prudence, or political
science, is, in this way, the servant of wisdom; for it leads to wisdom, preparing the way
for her, as the doorkeeper for the king.

Reply Obj. 2: Prudence considers the means of acquiring happiness, but wisdom considers the
very object of happiness, viz. the Supreme Intelligible. And if indeed the consideration of
wisdom were perfect in respect of its object, there would be perfect happiness in the act of
wisdom: but as, in this life, the act of wisdom is imperfect in respect of its principal object,
which is God, it follows that the act of wisdom is a beginning or participation of future happiness,
so that wisdom is nearer than prudence to happiness.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (De Anima i, text. 1), "one knowledge is preferable to
another, either because it is about a higher object, or because it is more certain." Hence
if the objects be equally good and sublime, that virtue will be greater which possesses more
certain knowledge. But a virtue which is less certain about a higher and better object, is
preferable to that which is more certain about an object of inferior degree. Wherefore the
Philosopher says (De Coelo ii, text. 60) that "it is a great thing to be able to know something
about celestial beings, though it be based on weak and probable reasoning"; and again (De Part.
Animal. i, 5) that "it is better to know a little about sublime things, than much about mean
things." Accordingly wisdom, to which knowledge about God pertains, is beyond the reach of
man, especially in this life, so as to be his possession: for this "belongs to God alone" (Metaph.
i, 2): and yet this little knowledge about God which we can have through wisdom is preferable
to all other knowledge.

Reply Obj. 4: The truth and knowledge of indemonstrable principles depends on the meaning of
the terms: for as soon as we know what is a whole, and what is a part, we know at once that
every whole is greater than its part. Now to know the meaning of being and non-being, of whole
and part, and of other things consequent to being, which are the terms whereof indemonstrable
principles are constituted, is the function of wisdom: since universal being is the proper
effect of the Supreme Cause, which is God. And so wisdom makes use of indemonstrable principles
which are the object of understanding, not only by drawing conclusions from them, as other
sciences do, but also by passing its judgment on them, and by vindicating them against those
who deny them. Hence it follows that wisdom is a greater virtue than understanding.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 66, Art. 6]

Whether Charity Is the Greatest of the Theological Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that charity is not the greatest of the theological virtues. Because,
since faith is in the intellect, while hope and charity are in the appetitive power, it seems
that faith is compared to hope and charity, as intellectual to moral virtue. Now intellectual
virtue is greater than moral virtue, as was made evident above (Q. 62, A. 3). Therefore faith
is greater than hope and charity.

Obj. 2: Further, when two things are added together, the result is greater than either one.
Now hope results from something added to charity; for it presupposes love, as Augustine says
(Enchiridion viii), and it adds a certain movement of stretching forward to the beloved. Therefore
hope is greater than charity.

Obj. 3: Further, a cause is more noble than its effect. Now faith and hope are the cause of
charity: for a gloss on Matt. 1:3 says that "faith begets hope, and hope charity." Therefore
faith and hope are greater than charity.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), the greatness of a virtue, as to its species, is taken
from its object. Now, since the three theological virtues look at God as their proper object,
it cannot be said that any one of them is greater than another by reason of its having a greater
object, but only from the fact that it approaches nearer than another to that object; and in
this way charity is greater than the others. Because the others, in their very nature, imply
a certain distance from the object: since faith is of what is not seen, and hope is of what
is not possessed.

Reply Obj. 1: Faith and hope are not related to charity in the same way as prudence to moral
virtue; and for two reasons. First, because the theological virtues have an object surpassing
the human soul: whereas prudence and the moral virtues are about things beneath man. Now in
things that are above man, to love them is more excellent than to know them. Because knowledge
is perfected by the known being in the knower: whereas love is perfected by the lover being
drawn to the beloved. Now that which is above man is more excellent in itself than in man:
since a thing is contained according to the mode of the container. But it is the other way
about in things beneath man. Secondly, because prudence moderates the appetitive movements
pertaining to the moral virtues, whereas faith does not moderate the appetitive movement tending
to God, which movement belongs to the theological virtues: it only shows the object. And this
appetitive movement towards its object surpasses human knowledge, according to Eph. 3:19: "The
charity of Christ which surpasseth all knowledge."

Reply Obj. 2: Hope presupposes love of that which a man hopes to obtain; and such love is love
of concupiscence, whereby he who desires good, loves himself rather than something else. On
the other hand, charity implies love of friendship, to which we are led by hope, as stated
above (Q. 62, A. 4).

Reply Obj. 3: An efficient cause is more noble than its effect: but not a disposing cause.
For otherwise the heat of fire would be more noble than the soul, to which the heat disposes
the matter. It is in this way that faith begets hope, and hope charity: in the sense, to wit,
that one is a disposition to the other.

QUESTION 67

OF THE DURATION OF VIRTUES AFTER THIS LIFE (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the duration of virtues after this life, under which head there are six
points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the moral virtues remain after this life?

(2) Whether the intellectual virtues remain?

(3) Whether faith remains?

(4) Whether hope remains?

(5) Whether anything remains of faith or hope?

(6) Whether charity remains?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 67, Art. 1]

Whether the Moral Virtues Remain After This Life?

Objection 1: It would seem that the moral virtues do not remain after this life. For in the
future state of glory men will be like angels, according to Matt. 22:30. But it is absurd to
put moral virtues in the angels [*"Whatever relates to moral action is petty, and unworthy
of the gods" (Ethic. x, 8)], as stated in Ethic. x, 8. Therefore neither in man will there
be moral virtues after this life.

Obj. 2: Further, moral virtues perfect man in the active life. But the active life does not
remain after this life: for Gregory says (Moral. iv, 18): "The works of the active life pass
away from the body." Therefore moral virtues do not remain after this life.

Obj. 3: Further, temperance and fortitude, which are moral virtues, are in the irrational parts
of the soul, as the Philosopher states (Ethic. iii, 10). Now the irrational parts of the soul
are corrupted, when the body is corrupted: since they are acts of bodily organs. Therefore
it seems that the moral virtues do not remain after this life.

On the contrary, It is written (Wis. 1:15) that "justice is perpetual and immortal."

I answer that, As Augustine says (De Trin. xiv, 9), Cicero held that the cardinal virtues do
not remain after this life; and that, as Augustine says (De Trin. xiv, 9), "in the other life
men are made happy by the mere knowledge of that nature, than which nothing is better or more
lovable, that Nature, to wit, which created all others." Afterwards he concludes that these
four virtues remain in the future life, but after a different manner.

In order to make this evident, we must note that in these virtues there is a formal element,
and a quasi-material element. The material element in these virtues is a certain inclination
of the appetitive part to the passions and operations according to a certain mode: and since
this mode is fixed by reason, the formal element is precisely this order of reason.

Accordingly we must say that these moral virtues do not remain in the future life, as regards
their material element. For in the future life there will be no concupiscences and pleasures
in matters of food and sex; nor fear and daring about dangers of death; nor distributions and
commutations of things employed in this present life. But, as regards the formal element, they
will remain most perfect, after this life, in the Blessed, in as much as each one's reason
will have most perfect rectitude in regard to things concerning him in respect of that state
of life: and his appetitive power will be moved entirely according to the order of reason,
in things pertaining to that same state. Hence Augustine says (De Trin. xiv, 9) that "prudence
will be there without any danger of error; fortitude, without the anxiety of bearing with evil;
temperance, without the rebellion of the desires: so that prudence will neither prefer nor
equal any good to God; fortitude will adhere to Him most steadfastly; and temperance will delight
in Him Who knows no imperfection." As to justice, it is yet more evident what will be its act
in that life, viz. "to be subject to God": because even in this life subjection to a superior
is part of justice.

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher is speaking there of these moral virtues, as to their material
element; thus he speaks of justice, as regards "commutations and distributions"; of fortitude,
as to "matters of terror and danger"; of temperance, in respect of "lewd desires."

The same applies to the Second Objection. For those things that concern the active life, belong
to the material element of the virtues.

Reply Obj. 3: There is a twofold state after this life; one before the resurrection, during
which the soul will be separate from the body; the other, after the resurrection, when the
souls will be reunited to their bodies. In this state of resurrection, the irrational powers
will be in the bodily organs, just as they now are. Hence it will be possible for fortitude
to be in the irascible, and temperance in the concupiscible part, in so far as each power will
be perfectly disposed to obey the reason. But in the state preceding the resurrection, the
irrational parts will not be in the soul actually, but only radically in its essence, as stated
in the First Part (Q. 77, A. 8). Wherefore neither will these virtues be actually, but only
in their root, i.e. in the reason and will, wherein are certain nurseries of these virtues,
as stated above (Q. 63, A. 1). Justice, however, will remain because it is in the will. Hence
of justice it is specially said that it is "perpetual and immortal"; both by reason of its
subject, since the will is incorruptible; and because its act will not change, as stated.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 67, Art. 2]

Whether the Intellectual Virtues Remain After This Life?

Objection 1: It would seem that the intellectual virtues do not remain after this life. For
the Apostle says (1 Cor. 13:8, 9) that "knowledge shall be destroyed," and he states the reason
to be because "we know in part." Now just as the knowledge of science is in part, i.e. imperfect;
so also is the knowledge of the other intellectual virtues, as long as this life lasts. Therefore
all the intellectual virtues will cease after this life.

Obj. 2: Further, the Philosopher says (Categor. vi) that since science is a habit, it is a
quality difficult to remove: for it is not easily lost, except by reason of some great change
or sickness. But no bodily change is so great as that of death. Therefore science and the other
intellectual virtues do not remain after death.

Obj. 3: Further, the intellectual virtues perfect the intellect so that it may perform its
proper act well. Now there seems to be no act of the intellect after this life, since "the
soul understands nothing without a phantasm" (De Anima iii, text. 30); and, after this life,
the phantasms do not remain, since their only subject is an organ of the body. Therefore the
intellectual virtues do not remain after this life.

On the contrary, The knowledge of what is universal and necessary is more constant than that
of particular and contingent things. Now the knowledge of contingent particulars remains in
man after this life; for instance, the knowledge of what one has done or suffered, according
to Luke 16:25: "Son, remember that thou didst receive good things in thy life-time, and likewise
Lazarus evil things." Much more, therefore, does the knowledge of universal and necessary things
remain, which belong to science and the other intellectual virtues.

I answer that, As stated in the First Part (Q. 79, A. 6) some have held that the intelligible
species do not remain in the passive intellect except when it actually understands; and that
so long as actual consideration ceases, the species are not preserved save in the sensitive
powers which are acts of bodily organs, viz. in the powers of imagination and memory. Now these
powers cease when the body is corrupted: and consequently, according to this opinion, neither
science nor any other intellectual virtue will remain after this life when once the body is
corrupted.

But this opinion is contrary to the mind of Aristotle, who states (De Anima iii, text. 8) that
"the possible intellect is in act when it is identified with each thing as knowing it; and
yet, even then, it is in potentiality to consider it actually." It is also contrary to reason,
because intelligible species are contained by the "possible" intellect immovably, according
to the mode of their container. Hence the "possible" intellect is called "the abode of the
species" (De Anima iii) because it preserves the intelligible species.

And yet the phantasms, by turning to which man understands in this life, by applying the intelligible
species to them as stated in the First Part (Q. 84, A. 7; Q. 85, A. 1, ad 5), cease as soon
as the body is corrupted. Hence, so far as the phantasms are concerned, which are the quasi-material
element in the intellectual virtues, these latter cease when the body is destroyed: but as
regards the intelligible species, which are in the "possible" intellect, the intellectual virtues
remain. Now the species are the quasi-formal element of the intellectual virtues. Therefore
these remain after this life, as regards their formal element, just as we have stated concerning
the moral virtues (A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: The saying of the Apostle is to be understood as referring to the material element
in science, and to the mode of understanding; because, to it, neither do the phantasms remain,
when the body is destroyed; nor will science be applied by turning to the phantasms.

Reply Obj. 2: Sickness destroys the habit of science as to its material element, viz. the phantasms,
but not as to the intelligible species, which are in the "possible" intellect.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated in the First Part (Q. 89, A. 1), the separated soul has a mode of understanding,
other than by turning to the phantasms. Consequently science remains, yet not as to the same
mode of operation; as we have stated concerning the moral virtues (A. 1).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 67, Art. 3]

Whether Faith Remains After This Life?

Objection 1: It would seem that faith remains after this life. Because faith is more excellent
than science. Now science remains after this life, as stated above (A. 2). Therefore faith
remains also.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (1 Cor. 3:11): "Other foundation no man can lay, but that which
is laid; which is Christ Jesus," i.e. faith in Jesus Christ. Now if the foundation is removed,
that which is built upon it remains no more. Therefore, if faith remains not after this life,
no other virtue remains.

Obj. 3: Further, the knowledge of faith and the knowledge of glory differ as perfect from imperfect.
Now imperfect knowledge is compatible with perfect knowledge: thus in an angel there can be
"evening" and "morning" knowledge [*Cf. I, Q. 58, A. 6]; and a man can have science through
a demonstrative syllogism, together with opinion through a probable syllogism, about one same
conclusion. Therefore after this life faith also is compatible with the knowledge of glory.
But those who are in glory are not absent from the Lord, but present to Him. Therefore after
this life faith does not remain in the life of glory.

I answer that, Opposition is of itself the proper cause of one thing being excluded from another,
in so far, to wit, as wherever two things are opposite to one another, we find opposition of
affirmation and negation. Now in some things we find opposition in respect of contrary forms;
thus in colors we find white and black. In others we find opposition in respect of perfection
and imperfection: wherefore in alterations, more and less are considered to be contraries,
as when a thing from being less hot is made more hot (Phys. v, text. 19). And since perfect
and imperfect are opposite to one another, it is impossible for perfection and imperfection
to affect the same thing at the same time.

Now we must take note that sometimes imperfection belongs to a thing's very nature, and belongs
to its species: even as lack of reason belongs to the very specific nature of a horse and an
ox. And since a thing, so long as it remains the same identically, cannot pass from one species
to another, it follows that if such an imperfection be removed, the species of that thing is
changed: even as it would no longer be an ox or a horse, were it to be rational. Sometimes,
however, the imperfection does not belong to the specific nature, but is accidental to the
individual by reason of something else; even as sometimes lack of reason is accidental to a
man, because he is asleep, or because he is drunk, or for some like reason; and it is evident,
that if such an imperfection be removed, the thing remains substantially. Wherefore Augustine
says (Tract. xl in Joan.): "What is faith? Believing without seeing." But it is an imperfect
knowledge that is of things unapparent or unseen. Consequently imperfect knowledge belongs
to the very nature of faith: therefore it is clear that the knowledge of faith cannot be perfect
and remain identically the same.

But we must also consider whether it is compatible with perfect knowledge: for there is nothing
to prevent some kind of imperfect knowledge from being sometimes with perfect knowledge. Accordingly
we must observe that knowledge can be imperfect in three ways: first, on the part of the knowable
object; secondly, on the part of the medium; thirdly, on the part of the subject. The difference
of perfect and imperfect knowledge on the part of the knowable object is seen in the "morning"
and "evening" knowledge of the angels: for the "morning" knowledge is about things according
to the being which they have in the Word, while the "evening" knowledge is about things according
as they have being in their own natures, which being is imperfect in comparison with the First
Being. On the part of the medium, perfect and imperfect knowledge are exemplified in the knowledge
of a conclusion through a demonstrative medium, and through a probable medium. On the part
of the subject the difference of perfect and imperfect knowledge applies to opinion, faith,
and science. For it is essential to opinion that we assent to one of two opposite assertions
with fear of the other, so that our adhesion is not firm: to science it is essential to have
firm adhesion with intellectual vision, for science possesses certitude which results from
the understanding of principles: while faith holds a middle place, for it surpasses opinion
in so far as its adhesion is firm, but falls short of science in so far as it lacks vision.

Now it is evident that a thing cannot be perfect and imperfect in the same respect; yet the
things which differ as perfect and imperfect can be together in the same respect in one and
the same other thing. Accordingly, knowledge which is perfect on the part of the object is
quite incompatible with imperfect knowledge about the same object; but they are compatible
with one another in respect of the same medium or the same subject: for nothing hinders a man
from having at one and the same time, through one and the same medium, perfect and imperfect
knowledge about two things, one perfect, the other imperfect, e.g. about health and sickness,
good and evil. In like manner knowledge that is perfect on the part of the medium is incompatible
with imperfect knowledge through one and the same medium: but nothing hinders them being about
the same subject or in the same subject: for one man can know the same conclusions through
a probable and through a demonstrative medium. Again, knowledge that is perfect on the part
of the subject is incompatible with imperfect knowledge in the same subject. Now faith, of
its very nature, contains an imperfection on the part of the subject, viz. that the believer
sees not what he believes: whereas bliss, of its very nature, implies perfection on the part
of the subject, viz. that the Blessed see that which makes them happy, as stated above (Q.
3, A. 8). Hence it is manifest that faith and bliss are incompatible in one and the same subject.

Reply Obj. 1: Faith is more excellent than science, on the part of the object, because its
object is the First Truth. Yet science has a more perfect mode of knowing its object, which
is not incompatible with vision which is the perfection of happiness, as the mode of faith
is incompatible.

Reply Obj. 2: Faith is the foundation in as much as it is knowledge: consequently when this
knowledge is perfected, the foundation will be perfected also.

The Reply to the Third Objection is clear from what has been said.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 67, Art. 4]

Whether Hope Remains After Death, in the State of Glory?

Objection 1: It would seem that hope remains after death, in the state of glory. Because hope
perfects the human appetite in a more excellent manner than the moral virtues. But the moral
virtues remain after this life, as Augustine clearly states (De Trin. xiv, 9). Much more then
does hope remain.

Obj. 2: Further, fear is opposed to hope. But fear remains after this life: in the Blessed,
filial fear, which abides for ever--in the lost, the fear of punishment. Therefore, in a like
manner, hope can remain.

Obj. 3: Further, just as hope is of future good, so is desire. Now in the Blessed there is
desire for future good; both for the glory of the body, which the souls of the Blessed desire,
as Augustine declares (Gen. ad lit. xii, 35); and for the glory of the soul, according to Ecclus.
24:29: "They that eat me, shall yet hunger, and they that drink me, shall yet thirst," and
1 Pet. 1:12: "On Whom the angels desire to look." Therefore it seems that there can be hope
in the Blessed after this life is past. God. Therefore they do not hope.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), that which, in its very nature, implies imperfection
of its subject, is incompatible with the opposite perfection in that subject. Thus it is evident
that movement of its very nature implies imperfection of its subject, since it is "the act
of that which is in potentiality as such" (Phys. iii): so that as soon as this potentiality
is brought into act, the movement ceases; for a thing does not continue to become white, when
once it is made white. Now hope denotes a movement towards that which is not possessed, as
is clear from what we have said above about the passion of hope (Q. 40, AA. 1, 2). Therefore
when we possess that which we hope for, viz. the enjoyment of God, it will no longer be possible
to have hope.

Reply Obj. 1: Hope surpasses the moral virtues as to its object, which is God. But the acts
of the moral virtues are not incompatible with the perfection of happiness, as the act of hope
is; except perhaps, as regards their matter, in respect of which they do not remain. For moral
virtue perfects the appetite, not only in respect of what is not yet possessed, but also as
regards something which is in our actual possession.

Reply Obj. 2: Fear is twofold, servile and filial, as we shall state further on (II-II, Q.
19, A. 2). Servile fear regards punishment, and will be impossible in the life of glory, since
there will no longer be possibility of being punished. Filial fear has two acts: one is an
act of reverence to God, and with regard to this act, it remains: the other is an act of fear
lest we be separated from God, and as regards this act, it does not remain. Because separation
from God is in the nature of an evil: and no evil will be feared there, according to Prov.
1:33: "He . . . shall enjoy abundance without fear of evils." Now fear is opposed to hope by
opposition of good and evil, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 2; Q. 40, A. 1), and therefore the
fear which will remain in glory is not opposed to hope. In the lost there can be fear of punishment,
rather than hope of glory in the Blessed. Because in the lost there will be a succession of
punishments, so that the notion of something future remains there, which is the object of fear:
but the glory of the saints has no succession, by reason of its being a kind of participation
of eternity, wherein there is neither past nor future, but only the present. And yet, properly
speaking, neither in the lost is there fear. For, as stated above (Q. 42, A. 2), fear is never
without some hope of escape: and the lost have no such hope. Consequently neither will there
be fear in them; except speaking in a general way, in so far as any expectation of future evil
is called fear.

Reply Obj. 3: As to the glory of the soul, there can be no desire in the Blessed, in so far
as desire looks for something future, for the reason already given (ad 2). Yet hunger and thirst
are said to be in them because they never weary, and for the same reason desire is said to
be in the angels. With regard to the glory of the body, there can be desire in the souls of
the saints, but not hope, properly speaking; neither as a theological virtue, for thus its
object is God, and not a created good; nor in its general signification. Because the object
of hope is something difficult, as stated above (Q. 40, A. 1): while a good whose unerring
cause we already possess, is not compared to us as something difficult. Hence he that has money
is not, properly speaking, said to hope for what he can buy at once. In like manner those who
have the glory of the soul are not, properly speaking, said to hope for the glory of the body,
but only to desire it.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 67, Art. 5]

Whether Anything of Faith or Hope Remains in Glory?

Objection 1: It would seem that something of faith and hope remains in glory. For when that
which is proper to a thing is removed, there remains what is common; thus it is stated in De
Causis that "if you take away rational, there remains living, and when you remove living, there
remains being." Now in faith there is something that it has in common with beatitude, viz.
knowledge: and there is something proper to it, viz. darkness, for faith is knowledge in a
dark manner. Therefore, the darkness of faith removed, the knowledge of faith still remains.

Obj. 2: Further, faith is a spiritual light of the soul, according to Eph. Now an imperfect
light remains when a perfect light supervenes: for a candle is not extinguished when the sun's
rays appear. Therefore it seems that the light of faith itself remains with the light of glory.

Obj. 3: Further, the substance of a habit does not cease through the withdrawal of its matter:
for a man may retain the habit of liberality, though he have lost his money: yet he cannot
exercise the act. Now the object of faith is the First Truth as unseen. Therefore when this
ceases through being seen, the habit of faith can still remain.

On the contrary, Faith is a simple habit. Now a simple thing is either withdrawn entirely,
or remains entirely. Since therefore faith does not remain entirely, but is taken away as stated
above (A. 3), it seems that it is withdrawn entirely.

I answer that, Some have held that hope is taken away entirely: but that faith is taken away
in part, viz. as to its obscurity, and remains in part, viz. as to the substance of its knowledge.
And if this be understood to mean that it remains the same, not identically but generically,
it is absolutely true; since faith is of the same genus, viz. knowledge, as the beatific vision.
On the other hand, hope is not of the same genus as heavenly bliss: because it is compared
to the enjoyment of bliss, as movement is to rest in the term of movement.

But if it be understood to mean that in heaven the knowledge of faith remains identically the
same, this is absolutely impossible. Because when you remove a specific difference, the substance
of the genus does not remain identically the same: thus if you remove the difference constituting
whiteness, the substance of color does not remain identically the same, as though the identical
color were at one time whiteness, and, at another, blackness. The reason is that genus is not
related to difference as matter to form, so that the substance of the genus remains identically
the same, when the difference is removed, as the substance of matter remains identically the
same, when the form is changed: for genus and difference are not the parts of a species, else
they would not be predicated of the species. But even as the species denotes the whole, i.e.
the compound of matter and form in material things, so does the difference, and likewise the
genus; the genus denotes the whole by signifying that which is material; the difference, by
signifying that which is formal; the species, by signifying both. Thus, in man, the sensitive
nature is as matter to the intellectual nature, and animal is predicated of that which has
a sensitive nature, rational of that which has an intellectual nature, and man of that which
has both. So that the one same whole is denoted by these three, but not under the same aspect.

It is therefore evident that, since the signification of the difference is confined to the
genus if the difference be removed, the substance of the genus cannot remain the same: for
the same animal nature does not remain, if another kind of soul constitute the animal. Hence
it is impossible for the identical knowledge, which was previously obscure, to become clear
vision. It is therefore evident that, in heaven, nothing remains of faith, either identically
or specifically the same, but only generically.

Reply Obj. 1: If "rational" be withdrawn, the remaining "living" thing is the same, not identically,
but generically, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: The imperfection of candlelight is not opposed to the perfection of sunlight,
since they do not regard the same subject: whereas the imperfection of faith and the perfection
of glory are opposed to one another and regard the same subject. Consequently they are incompatible
with one another, just as light and darkness in the air.

Reply Obj. 3: He that loses his money does not therefore lose the possibility of having money,
and therefore it is reasonable for the habit of liberality to remain. But in the state of glory
not only is the object of faith, which is the unseen, removed actually, but even its possibility,
by reason of the unchangeableness of heavenly bliss: and so such a habit would remain to no
purpose.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 67, Art. 6]

Whether Charity Remains After This Life, in Glory?

Objection 1: It would seem that charity does not remain after this life, in glory. Because
according to 1 Cor. 13:10, "when that which is perfect is come, that which is in part," i.e.
that which is imperfect, "shall be done away." Now the charity of the wayfarer is imperfect.
Therefore it will be done away when the perfection of glory is attained.

Obj. 2: Further, habits and acts are differentiated by their objects. But the object of love
is good apprehended. Since therefore the apprehension of the present life differs from the
apprehension of the life to come, it seems that charity is not the same in both cases.

Obj. 3: Further, things of the same kind can advance from imperfection to perfection by continuous
increase. But the charity of the wayfarer can never attain to equality with the charity of
heaven, however much it be increased. Therefore it seems that the charity of the wayfarer does
not remain in heaven.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (1 Cor. 13:8): "Charity never falleth away."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), when the imperfection of a thing does not belong to
its specific nature, there is nothing to hinder the identical thing passing from imperfection
to perfection, even as man is perfected by growth, and whiteness by intensity. Now charity
is love, the nature of which does not include imperfection, since it may relate to an object
either possessed or not possessed, either seen or not seen. Therefore charity is not done away
by the perfection of glory, but remains identically the same.

Reply Obj. 1: The imperfection of charity is accidental to it; because imperfection is not
included in the nature of love. Now although that which is accidental to a thing be withdrawn,
the substance remains. Hence the imperfection of charity being done away, charity itself is
not done away.

Reply Obj. 2: The object of charity is not knowledge itself; if it were, the charity of the
wayfarer would not be the same as the charity of heaven: its object is the thing known, which
remains the same, viz. God Himself.

Reply Obj. 3: The reason why charity of the wayfarer cannot attain to the perfection of the
charity of heaven, is a difference on the part of the cause: for vision is a cause of love,
as stated in Ethic. ix, 5: and the more perfectly we know God, the more perfectly we love Him.

QUESTION 68

OF THE GIFTS (In Eight Articles)

We now come to consider the Gifts; under which head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the Gifts differ from the virtues?

(2) Of the necessity of the Gifts?

(3) Whether the Gifts are habits?

(4) Which, and how many are they?

(5) Whether the Gifts are connected?

(6) Whether they remain in heaven?

(7) Of their comparison with one another;

(8) Of their comparison with the virtues.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 1]

Whether the Gifts Differ from the Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gifts do not differ from the virtues. For Gregory commenting
on Job 1:2, "There were born to him seven sons," says (Moral. i, 12): "Seven sons were born
to us, when through the conception of heavenly thought, the seven virtues of the Holy Ghost
take birth in us": and he quotes the words of Isa. 11:2, 3: "And the Spirit . . . of understanding
. . . shall rest upon him," etc. where the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost are enumerated. Therefore
the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost are virtues.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine commenting on Matt. 12:45, "Then he goeth and taketh with him seven
other spirits," etc., says (De Quaest. Evang. i, qu. 8): "The seven vices are opposed to the
seven virtues of the Holy Ghost," i.e. to the seven gifts. Now the seven vices are opposed
to the seven virtues, commonly so called. Therefore the gifts do not differ from the virtues
commonly so called.

Obj. 3: Further, things whose definitions are the same, are themselves the same. But the definition
of virtue applies to the gifts; for each gift is "a good quality of the mind, whereby we lead
a good life," etc. [*Cf. Q. 55, A. 4]. Likewise the definition of a gift can apply to the infused
virtues: for a gift is "an unreturnable giving," according to the Philosopher (Topic. iv, 4).
Therefore the virtues and gifts do not differ from one another.

Obj. 4: Several of the things mentioned among the gifts, are virtues: for, as stated above
(Q. 57, A. 2), wisdom, understanding, and knowledge are intellectual virtues, counsel pertains
to prudence, piety to a kind of justice, and fortitude is a moral virtue. Therefore it seems
that the gifts do not differ from the virtues.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. i, 12) distinguishes seven gifts, which he states to be denoted
by the seven sons of Job, from the three theological virtues, which, he says, are signified
by Job's three daughters. He also distinguishes (Moral. ii, 26) the same seven gifts from the
four cardinal virtues, which he says were signified by the four corners of the house.

I answer that, If we speak of gift and virtue with regard to the notion conveyed by the words
themselves, there is no opposition between them. Because the word "virtue" conveys the notion
that it perfects man in relation to well-doing, while the word "gift" refers to the cause from
which it proceeds. Now there is no reason why that which proceeds from one as a gift should
not perfect another in well-doing: especially as we have already stated (Q. 63, A. 3) that
some virtues are infused into us by God. Wherefore in this respect we cannot differentiate
gifts from virtues. Consequently some have held that the gifts are not to be distinguished
from the virtues. But there remains no less a difficulty for them to solve; for they must explain
why some virtues are called gifts and some not; and why among the gifts there are some, fear,
for instance, that are not reckoned virtues.

Hence it is that others have said that the gifts should be held as being distinct from the
virtues; yet they have not assigned a suitable reason for this distinction, a reason, to wit,
which would apply either to all the virtues, and to none of the gifts, or vice versa. For,
seeing that of the seven gifts, four belong to the reason, viz. wisdom, knowledge, understanding
and counsel, and three to the appetite, viz. fortitude, piety and fear; they held that the
gifts perfect the free-will according as it is a faculty of the reason, while the virtues perfect
it as a faculty of the will: since they observed only two virtues in the reason or intellect,
viz. faith and prudence, the others being in the appetitive power or the affections. If this
distinction were true, all the virtues would have to be in the appetite, and all the gifts
in the reason.

Others observing that Gregory says (Moral. ii, 26) that "the gift of the Holy Ghost, by coming
into the soul endows it with prudence, temperance, justice, and fortitude, and at the same
time strengthens it against every kind of temptation by His sevenfold gift," said that the
virtues are given us that we may do good works, and the gifts, that we may resist temptation.
But neither is this distinction sufficient. Because the virtues also resist those temptations
which lead to the sins that are contrary to the virtues; for everything naturally resists its
contrary: which is especially clear with regard to charity, of which it is written (Cant. 8:7):
"Many waters cannot quench charity."

Others again, seeing that these gifts are set down in Holy Writ as having been in Christ, according
to Isa. 11:2, 3, said that the virtues are given simply that we may do good works, but the
gifts, in order to conform us to Christ, chiefly with regard to His Passion, for it was then
that these gifts shone with the greatest splendor. Yet neither does this appear to be a satisfactory
distinction. Because Our Lord Himself wished us to be conformed to Him, chiefly in humility
and meekness, according to Matt. 11:29: "Learn of Me, because I am meek and humble of heart,"
and in charity, according to John 15:12: "Love one another, as I have loved you." Moreover,
these virtues were especially resplendent in Christ's Passion.

Accordingly, in order to differentiate the gifts from the virtues, we must be guided by the
way in which Scripture expresses itself, for we find there that the term employed is "spirit"
rather than "gift." For thus it is written (Isa. 11:2, 3): "The spirit . . . of wisdom and
of understanding . . . shall rest upon him," etc.: from which words we are clearly given to
understand that these seven are there set down as being in us by Divine inspiration. Now inspiration
denotes motion from without. For it must be noted that in man there is a twofold principle
of movement, one within him, viz. the reason; the other extrinsic to him, viz. God, as stated
above (Q. 9, AA. 4, 6): moreover the Philosopher says this in the chapter On Good Fortune (Ethic.
Eudem. vii, 8).

Now it is evident that whatever is moved must be proportionate to its mover: and the perfection
of the mobile as such, consists in a disposition whereby it is disposed to be well moved by
its mover. Hence the more exalted the mover, the more perfect must be the disposition whereby
the mobile is made proportionate to its mover: thus we see that a disciple needs a more perfect
disposition in order to receive a higher teaching from his master. Now it is manifest that
human virtues perfect man according as it is natural for him to be moved by his reason in his
interior and exterior actions. Consequently man needs yet higher perfections, whereby to be
disposed to be moved by God. These perfections are called gifts, not only because they are
infused by God, but also because by them man is disposed to become amenable to the Divine inspiration,
according to Isa. 50:5: "The Lord . . . hath opened my ear, and I do not resist; I have not
gone back." This then is what some say, viz. that the gifts perfect man for acts which are
higher than acts of virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Sometimes these gifts are called virtues, in the broad sense of the word. Nevertheless,
they have something over and above the virtues understood in this broad way, in so far as they
are Divine virtues, perfecting man as moved by God. Hence the Philosopher (Ethic. vii, 1) above
virtue commonly so called, places a kind of "heroic" or "divine virtue [*arete heroike kai
theia]," in respect of which some men are called "divine."

Reply Obj. 2: The vices are opposed to the virtues, in so far as they are opposed to the good
as appointed by reason; but they are opposed to the gifts, in as much as they are opposed to
the Divine instinct. For the same thing is opposed both to God and to reason, whose light flows
from God.

Reply Obj. 3: This definition applies to virtue taken in its general sense. Consequently, if
we wish to restrict it to virtue as distinguished from the gifts, we must explain the words,
"whereby we lead a good life" as referring to the rectitude of life which is measured by the
rule of reason. Likewise the gifts, as distinct from infused virtue, may be defined as something
given by God in relation to His motion; something, to wit, that makes man to follow well the
promptings of God.

Reply Obj. 4: Wisdom is called an intellectual virtue, so far as it proceeds from the judgment
of reason: but it is called a gift, according as its work proceeds from the Divine prompting.
The same applies to the other virtues.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 2]

Whether the Gifts Are Necessary to Man for Salvation?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gifts are not necessary to man for salvation. Because the
gifts are ordained to a perfection surpassing the ordinary perfection of virtue. Now it is
not necessary for man's salvation that he should attain to a perfection surpassing the ordinary
standard of virtue; because such perfection falls, not under the precept, but under a counsel.
Therefore the gifts are not necessary to man for salvation.

Obj. 2: Further, it is enough, for man's salvation, that he behave well in matters concerning
God and matters concerning man. Now man's behavior to God is sufficiently directed by the theological
virtues; and his behavior towards men, by the moral virtues. Therefore gifts are not necessary
to man for salvation.

Obj. 3: Further, Gregory says (Moral. ii, 26) that "the Holy Ghost gives wisdom against folly,
understanding against dullness, counsel against rashness, fortitude against fears, knowledge
against ignorance, piety against hardness of our heart, and fear against pride." But a sufficient
remedy for all these things is to be found in the virtues. Therefore the gifts are not necessary
to man for salvation.

On the contrary, Of all the gifts, wisdom seems to be the highest, and fear the lowest. 1:28):
"He that is without fear cannot be justified." Therefore the other gifts that are placed between
these are also necessary for salvation.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the gifts are perfections of man, whereby he is disposed
so as to be amenable to the promptings of God. Wherefore in those matters where the prompting
of reason is not sufficient, and there is need for the prompting of the Holy Ghost, there is,
in consequence, need for a gift.

Now man's reason is perfected by God in two ways: first, with its natural perfection, to wit,
the natural light of reason; secondly, with a supernatural perfection, to wit, the theological
virtues, as stated above (Q. 62, A. 1). And, though this latter perfection is greater than
the former, yet the former is possessed by man in a more perfect manner than the latter: because
man has the former in his full possession, whereas he possesses the latter imperfectly, since
we love and know God imperfectly. Now it is evident that anything that has a nature or a form
or a virtue perfectly, can of itself work according to them: not, however, excluding the operation
of God, Who works inwardly in every nature and in every will. On the other hand, that which
has a nature, or form, or virtue imperfectly, cannot of itself work, unless it be moved by
another. Thus the sun which possesses light perfectly, can shine by itself; whereas the moon
which has the nature of light imperfectly, sheds only a borrowed light. Again, a physician,
who knows the medical art perfectly, can work by himself; but his pupil, who is not yet fully
instructed, cannot work by himself, but needs to receive instructions from him.

Accordingly, in matters subject to human reason, and directed to man's connatural end, man
can work through the judgment of his reason. If, however, even in these things man receive
help in the shape of special promptings from God, this will be out of God's superabundant goodness:
hence, according to the philosophers, not every one that had the acquired moral virtues, had
also the heroic or divine virtues. But in matters directed to the supernatural end, to which
man's reason moves him, according as it is, in a manner, and imperfectly, informed by the theological
virtues, the motion of reason does not suffice, unless it receive in addition the prompting
or motion of the Holy Ghost, according to Rom. 8:14, 17: "Whosoever are led by the Spirit of
God, they are sons of God . . . and if sons, heirs also": and Ps. 142:10: "Thy good Spirit
shall lead me into the right land," because, to wit, none can receive the inheritance of that
land of the Blessed, except he be moved and led thither by the Holy Ghost. Therefore, in order
to accomplish this end, it is necessary for man to have the gift of the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 1: The gifts surpass the ordinary perfection of the virtues, not as regards the
kind of works (as the counsels surpass the commandments), but as regards the manner of working,
in respect of man being moved by a higher principle.

Reply Obj. 2: By the theological and moral virtues, man is not so perfected in respect of his
last end, as not to stand in continual need of being moved by the yet higher promptings of
the Holy Ghost, for the reason already given.

Reply Obj. 3: Whether we consider human reason as perfected in its natural perfection, or as
perfected by the theological virtues, it does not know all things, nor all possible things.
Consequently it is unable to avoid folly and other like things mentioned in the objection.
God, however, to Whose knowledge and power all things are subject, by His motion safeguards
us from all folly, ignorance, dullness of mind and hardness of heart, and the rest. Consequently
the gifts of the Holy Ghost, which make us amenable to His promptings, are said to be given
as remedies to these defects.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 3]

Whether the Gifts of the Holy Ghost Are Habits?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gifts of the Holy Ghost are not habits. Because a habit
is a quality abiding in man, being defined as "a quality difficult to remove," as stated in
the Predicaments (Categor. vi). Now it is proper to Christ that the gifts of the Holy Ghost
rest in Him, as stated in Isa. 11:2, 3: "He upon Whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending
and remaining upon Him, He it is that baptizeth"; on which words Gregory comments as follows
(Moral. ii, 27): "The Holy Ghost comes upon all the faithful; but, in a singular way, He dwells
always in the Mediator." Therefore the gifts of the Holy Ghost are not habits.

Obj. 2: Further, the gifts of the Holy Ghost perfect man according as he is moved by the Spirit
of God, as stated above (AA. 1, 2). But in so far as man is moved by the Spirit of God, he
is somewhat like an instrument in His regard. Now to be perfected by a habit is befitting,
not an instrument, but a principal agent. Therefore the gifts of the Holy Ghost are not habits.

Obj. 3: Further, as the gifts of the Holy Ghost are due to Divine inspiration, so is the gift
of prophecy. Now prophecy is not a habit: for "the spirit of prophecy does not always reside
in the prophets," as Gregory states (Hom. i in Ezechiel). Neither, therefore, are the gifts
of the Holy Ghost.

On the contrary, Our Lord in speaking of the Holy Ghost said to His disciples (John 14:17):
"He shall abide with you, and shall be in you." Now the Holy Ghost is not in a man without
His gifts. Therefore His gifts abide in man. Therefore they are not merely acts or passions
but abiding habits.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the gifts are perfections of man, whereby he becomes
amenable to the promptings of the Holy Ghost. Now it is evident from what has been already
said (Q. 56, A. 4; Q. 58, A. 2), that the moral virtues perfect the appetitive power according
as it partakes somewhat of the reason, in so far, to wit, as it has a natural aptitude to be
moved by the command of reason. Accordingly the gifts of the Holy Ghost, as compared with the
Holy Ghost Himself, are related to man, even as the moral virtues, in comparison with the reason,
are related to the appetitive power. Now the moral virtues are habits, whereby the powers of
appetite are disposed to obey reason promptly. Therefore the gifts of the Holy Ghost are habits
whereby man is perfected to obey readily the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 1: Gregory solves this objection (Moral. ii, 27) by saying that "by those gifts
without which one cannot obtain life, the Holy Ghost ever abides in all the elect, but not
by His other gifts." Now the seven gifts are necessary for salvation, as stated above (A. 2).
Therefore, with regard to them, the Holy Ghost ever abides in holy men.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument holds, in the case of an instrument which has no faculty of action,
but only of being acted upon. But man is not an instrument of that kind; for he is so acted
upon, by the Holy Ghost, that he also acts himself, in so far as he has a free-will. Therefore
he needs a habit.

Reply Obj. 3: Prophecy is one of those gifts which are for the manifestation of the Spirit,
not for the necessity of salvation: hence the comparison fails.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 4]

Whether the Seven Gifts of the Holy Ghost Are Suitably Enumerated?

Objection 1: It would seem that seven gifts of the Holy Ghost are unsuitably enumerated. For
in that enumeration four are set down corresponding to the intellectual virtues, viz. wisdom,
understanding, knowledge, and counsel, which corresponds to prudence; whereas nothing is set
down corresponding to art, which is the fifth intellectual virtue. Moreover, something is included
corresponding to justice, viz. piety, and something corresponding to fortitude, viz. the gift
of fortitude; while there is nothing to correspond to temperance. Therefore the gifts are enumerated
insufficiently.

Obj. 2: Further, piety is a part of justice. But no part of fortitude is assigned to correspond
thereto, but fortitude itself. Therefore justice itself, and not piety, ought to have been
set down.

Obj. 3: Further, the theological virtues, more than any, direct us to God. Since, then, the
gifts perfect man according as he is moved by God, it seems that some gifts, corresponding
to the theological virtues, should have been included.

Obj. 4: Further, even as God is an object of fear, so is He of love, of hope, and of joy. Now
love, hope, and joy are passions condivided with fear. Therefore, as fear is set down as a
gift, so ought the other three.

Obj. 5: Further, wisdom is added in order to direct understanding; counsel, to direct fortitude;
knowledge, to direct piety. Therefore, some gift should have been added for the purpose of
directing fear. Therefore the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost are unsuitably enumerated.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Holy Writ (Isa. 11:2, 3).

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), the gifts are habits perfecting man so that he is ready
to follow the promptings of the Holy Ghost, even as the moral virtues perfect the appetitive
powers so that they obey the reason. Now just as it is natural for the appetitive powers to
be moved by the command of reason, so it is natural for all the forces in man to be moved by
the instinct of God, as by a superior power. Therefore whatever powers in man can be the principles
of human actions, can also be the subjects of gifts, even as they are virtues; and such powers
are the reason and appetite.

Now the reason is speculative and practical: and in both we find the apprehension of truth
(which pertains to the discovery of truth), and judgment concerning the truth. Accordingly,
for the apprehension of truth, the speculative reason is perfected by understanding; the practical
reason, by counsel. In order to judge aright, the speculative reason is perfected by wisdom;
the practical reason by knowledge. The appetitive power, in matters touching a man's relations
to another, is perfected by piety; in matters touching himself, it is perfected by fortitude
against the fear of dangers; and against inordinate lust for pleasures, by fear, according
to Prov. Hence it is clear that these gifts extend to all those things to which the virtues,
both intellectual and moral, extend.

Reply Obj. 1: The gifts of the Holy Ghost perfect man in matters concerning a good life: whereas
art is not directed to such matters, but to external things that can be made, since art is
the right reason, not about things to be done, but about things to be made (Ethic. vi, 4).
However, we may say that, as regards the infusion of the gifts, the art is on the part of the
Holy Ghost, Who is the principal mover, and not on the part of men, who are His organs when
He moves them. The gift of fear corresponds, in a manner, to temperance: for just as it belongs
to temperance, properly speaking, to restrain man from evil pleasures for the sake of the good
appointed by reason, so does it belong to the gift of fear, to withdraw man from evil pleasures
through fear of God.

Reply Obj. 2: Justice is so called from the rectitude of the reason, and so it is more suitably
called a virtue than a gift. But the name of piety denotes the reverence which we give to our
father and to our country. And since God is the Father of all, the worship of God is also called
piety, as Augustine states (De Civ. Dei x, 1). Therefore the gift whereby a man, through reverence
for God, works good to all, is fittingly called piety.

Reply Obj. 3: The mind of man is not moved by the Holy Ghost, unless in some way it be united
to Him: even as the instrument is not moved by the craftsman, unless there by contact or some
other kind of union between them. Now the primal union of man with God is by faith, hope and
charity: and, consequently, these virtues are presupposed to the gifts, as being their roots.
Therefore all the gifts correspond to these three virtues, as being derived therefrom.

Reply Obj. 4: Love, hope and joy have good for their object. Now God is the Sovereign Good:
wherefore the names of these passions are transferred to the theological virtues which unite
man to God. On the other hand, the object of fear is evil, which can nowise apply to God: hence
fear does not denote union with God, but withdrawal from certain things through reverence for
God. Hence it does not give its name to a theological virtue, but to a gift, which withdraws
us from evil, for higher motives than moral virtue does.

Reply Obj. 5: Wisdom directs both the intellect and the affections of man. Hence two gifts
are set down as corresponding to wisdom as their directing principle; on the part of the intellect,
the gift of understanding; on the part of the affections, the gift of fear. Because the principal
reason for fearing God is taken from a consideration of the Divine excellence, which wisdom
considers.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 5]

Whether the Gifts of the Holy Ghost Are Connected? Now wisdom and knowledge are reckoned among
the gifts of the Holy Ghost. Therefore the gifts of the Holy Ghost are given to divers men,
and are not connected together in the same man.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Trin. xiv, 1) that "many of the faithful have not knowledge,
though they have faith." But some of the gifts, at least the gift of fear, accompany faith.
Therefore it seems that the gifts are not necessarily connected together in one and the same man.

Obj. 3: Further, Gregory says (Moral. i) that wisdom "is of small account if it lack understanding,
and understanding is wholly useless if it be not based upon wisdom . . . Counsel is worthless,
when the strength of fortitude is lacking thereto . . . and fortitude is very weak if it be
not supported by counsel . . . Knowledge is nought if it hath not the use of piety . . . and
piety is very useless if it lack the discernment of knowledge . . . and assuredly, unless it
has these virtues with it, fear itself rises up to the doing of no good action": from which
it seems that it is possible to have one gift without another. Therefore the gifts of the Holy
Ghost are not connected.

On the contrary, Gregory prefaces the passage above quoted, with the following remark: "It
is worthy of note in this feast of Job's sons, that by turns they fed one another." Now the
sons of Job, of whom he is speaking, denote the gifts of the Holy Ghost. Therefore the gifts
of the Holy Ghost are connected together by strengthening one another.

I answer that, The true answer to this question is easily gathered from what has been already
set down. For it has been stated (A. 3) that as the powers of the appetite are disposed by
the moral virtues as regards the governance of reason, so all the powers of the soul are disposed
by the gifts as regards the motion of the Holy Ghost. Wherefore, just as the moral virtues
are united together in prudence, so the gifts of the Holy Ghost are connected together in charity:
so that whoever has charity has all the gifts of the Holy Ghost, none of which can one possess
without charity.

Reply Obj. 1: Wisdom and knowledge can be considered in one way as gratuitous graces, in so
far, to wit, as man so far abounds in the knowledge of things Divine and human, that he is
able both to instruct the believer and confound the unbeliever. It is in this sense that the
Apostle speaks, in this passage, about wisdom and knowledge: hence he mentions pointedly the
"word" of wisdom and the "word" of knowledge. They may be taken in another way for the gifts
of the Holy Ghost: and thus wisdom and knowledge are nothing else but perfections of the human
mind, rendering it amenable to the promptings of the Holy Ghost in the knowledge of things
Divine and human. Consequently it is clear that these gifts are in all who are possessed of
charity.

Reply Obj. 2: Augustine is speaking there of knowledge, while expounding the passage of the
Apostle quoted above (Obj. 1): hence he is referring to knowledge, in the sense already explained,
as a gratuitous grace. This is clear from the context which follows: "For it is one thing to
know only what a man must believe in order to gain the blissful life, which is no other than
eternal life; and another, to know how to impart this to godly souls, and to defend it against
the ungodly, which latter the Apostle seems to have styled by the proper name of knowledge."

Reply Obj. 3: Just as the connection of the cardinal virtues is proved in one way from the
fact that one is, in a manner, perfected by another, as stated above (Q. 65, A. 1); so Gregory
wishes to prove the connection of the gifts, in the same way, from the fact that one cannot
be perfect without the other. Hence he had already observed that "each particular virtue is
to the last degree destitute, unless one virtue lend its support to another." We are therefore
not to understand that one gift can be without another; but that if understanding were without
wisdom, it would not be a gift; even as temperance, without justice, would not be a virtue.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 6]

Whether the Gifts of the Holy Ghost Remain in Heaven?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gifts of the Holy Ghost do not remain in heaven. For Gregory
says (Moral. ii, 26) that by means of His sevenfold gift the "Holy Ghost instructs the mind
against all temptations." Now there will be no temptations in heaven, according to Isa. 11:9:
"They shall not hurt, nor shall they kill in all My holy mountain." Therefore there will be
no gifts of the Holy Ghost in heaven.

Obj. 2: Further, the gifts of the Holy Ghost are habits, as stated above (A. 3). But habits
are of no use, where their acts are impossible. Now the acts of some gifts are not possible
in heaven; for Gregory says (Moral. i, 15) that "understanding . . . penetrates the truths
heard . . . counsel . . . stays us from acting rashly . . . fortitude . . . has no fear of
adversity . . . piety satisfies the inmost heart with deeds of mercy," all of which are incompatible
with the heavenly state. Therefore these gifts will not remain in the state of glory.

Obj. 3: Further, some of the gifts perfect man in the contemplative life, e.g. wisdom and understanding:
and some in the active life, e.g. piety and fortitude. Now the active life ends with this as
Gregory states (Moral. vi). Therefore not all the gifts of the Holy Ghost will be in the state
of glory.

On the contrary, Ambrose says (De Spiritu Sancto i, 20): "The city of God, the heavenly Jerusalem
is not washed with the waters of an earthly river: it is the Holy Ghost, of Whose outpouring
we but taste, Who, proceeding from the Fount of life, seems to flow more abundantly in those
celestial spirits, a seething torrent of sevenfold heavenly virtue."

I answer that, We may speak of the gifts in two ways: first, as to their essence; and thus
they will be most perfectly in heaven, as may be gathered from the passage of Ambrose, just
quoted. The reason for this is that the gifts of the Holy Ghost render the human mind amenable
to the motion of the Holy Ghost: which will be especially realized in heaven, where God will
be "all in all" (1 Cor. 15:28), and man entirely subject unto Him. Secondly, they may be considered
as regards the matter about which their operations are: and thus, in the present life they
have an operation about a matter, in respect of which they will have no operation in the state
of glory. Considered in this way, they will not remain in the state of glory; just as we have
stated to be the case with regard to the cardinal virtues (Q. 67, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 1: Gregory is speaking there of the gifts according as they are compatible with
the present state: for it is thus that they afford us protection against evil temptations.
But in the state of glory, where all evil will have ceased, we shall be perfected in good by
the gifts of the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 2: Gregory, in almost every gift, includes something that passes away with the present
state, and something that remains in the future state. For he says that "wisdom strengthens
the mind with the hope and certainty of eternal things"; of which two, hope passes, and certainty
remains. Of understanding, he says "that it penetrates the truths heard, refreshing the heart
and enlightening its darkness," of which, hearing passes away, since "they shall teach no more
every man . . . his brother" (Jer. 31:3, 4); but the enlightening of the mind remains. Of counsel
he says that it "prevents us from being impetuous," which is necessary in the present life;
and also that "it makes the mind full of reason," which is necessary even in the future state.
Of fortitude he says that it "fears not adversity," which is necessary in the present life;
and further, that it "sets before us the viands of confidence," which remains also in the future
life. With regard to knowledge he mentions only one thing, viz. that "she overcomes the void
of ignorance," which refers to the present state. When, however, he adds "in the womb of the
mind," this may refer figuratively to the fulness of knowledge, which belongs to the future
state. Of piety he says that "it satisfies the inmost heart with deeds of mercy." These words
taken literally refer only to the present state: yet the inward regard for our neighbor, signified
by "the inmost heart," belongs also to the future state, when piety will achieve, not works
of mercy, but fellowship of joy. Of fear he says that "it oppresses the mind, lest it pride
itself in present things," which refers to the present state, and that "it strengthens it with
the meat of hope for the future," which also belongs to the present state, as regards hope,
but may also refer to the future state, as regards being "strengthened" for things we hope
are here, and obtain there.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers the gifts as to their matter. For the matter of the gifts
will not be the works of the active life; but all the gifts will have their respective acts
about things pertaining to the contemplative life, which is the life of heavenly bliss.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 7]

Whether the Gifts Are Set Down by Isaias in Their Order of Dignity?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gifts are not set down by Isaias in their order of dignity.
For the principal gift is, seemingly, that which, more than the others, God requires of man.
I be a master, where is My fear?" Therefore it seems that fear, which is mentioned last, is
not the lowest but the greatest of the gifts.

Obj. Now a common good is preferable to particular goods. Therefore piety, which is given the
last place but one, seems to be the most excellent gift.

Obj. 3: Further, knowledge perfects man's judgment, while counsel pertains to inquiry. But
judgment is more excellent than inquiry. Therefore knowledge is a more excellent gift than
counsel; and yet it is set down as being below it.

Obj. 4: Further, fortitude pertains to the appetitive power, while science belongs to reason.
But reason is a more excellent power than the appetite. Therefore knowledge is a more excellent
gift than fortitude; and yet the latter is given the precedence. Therefore the gifts are not
set down in their order of dignity.

On the contrary, Augustine says [*De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4]: "It seems to me that the sevenfold
operation of the Holy Ghost, of which Isaias speaks, agrees in degrees and expression with
these" (of which we read in Matt. 5:3): "but there is a difference of order, for there" (viz.
in Isaias) "the enumeration begins with the more excellent gifts, here, with the lower gifts."

I answer that, The excellence of the gifts can be measured in two ways: first, simply, viz.
by comparison to their proper acts as proceeding from their principles; secondly, relatively,
viz. by comparison to their matter. If we consider the excellence of the gifts simply, they
follow the same rule as the virtues, as to their comparison one with another; because the gifts
perfect man for all the acts of the soul's powers, even as the virtues do, as stated above
(A. 4). Hence, as the intellectual virtues have the precedence of the moral virtues, and among
the intellectual virtues, the contemplative are preferable to the active, viz. wisdom, understanding
and science to prudence and art (yet so that wisdom stands before understanding, and understanding
before science, and prudence and synesis before eubulia): so also among the gifts, wisdom,
understanding, knowledge, and counsel are more excellent than piety, fortitude, and fear; and
among the latter, piety excels fortitude, and fortitude fear, even as justice surpasses fortitude,
and fortitude temperance. But in regard to their matter, fortitude and counsel precede knowledge
and piety: because fortitude and counsel are concerned with difficult matters, whereas piety
and knowledge regard ordinary matters. Consequently the excellence of the gifts corresponds
with the order in which they are enumerated; but so far as wisdom and understanding are given
the preference to the others, their excellence is considered simply, while, so far, as counsel
and fortitude are preferred to knowledge and piety, it is considered with regard to their matter.

Reply Obj. 1: Fear is chiefly required as being the foundation, so to speak, of the perfection
of the other gifts, for "the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom" (Ps. 110:10; Ecclus.
1:16), and not as though it were more excellent than the others. Because, in the order of generation,
man departs from evil on account of fear (Prov. 16:16), before doing good works, and which
result from the other gifts.

Reply Obj. 2: In the words quoted from the Apostle, piety is not compared with all God's gifts,
but only with "bodily exercise," of which he had said it "is profitable to little."

Reply Obj. 3: Although knowledge stands before counsel by reason of its judgment, yet counsel
is more excellent by reason of its matter: for counsel is only concerned with matters of difficulty
(Ethic. iii, 3), whereas the judgment of knowledge embraces all matters.

Reply Obj. 4: The directive gifts which pertain to the reason are more excellent than the executive
gifts, if we consider them in relation to their acts as proceeding from their powers, because
reason transcends the appetite as a rule transcends the thing ruled. But on the part of the
matter, counsel is united to fortitude as the directive power to the executive, and so is knowledge
united to piety: because counsel and fortitude are concerned with matters of difficulty, while
knowledge and piety are concerned with ordinary matters. Hence counsel together with fortitude,
by reason of their matter, are given the preference to knowledge and piety.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 68, Art. 8]

Whether the Virtues Are More Excellent Than the Gifts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the virtues are more excellent than the gifts. For Augustine
says (De Trin. xv, 18) while speaking of charity: "No gift of God is more excellent than this.
It is this alone which divides the children of the eternal kingdom from the children of eternal
damnation. Other gifts are bestowed by the Holy Ghost, but, without charity, they avail nothing."
But charity is a virtue. Therefore a virtue is more excellent than the gifts of the Holy Ghost.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is first naturally, seems to be more excellent. Now the virtues
precede the gifts of the Holy Ghost; for Gregory says (Moral. ii, 26) that "the gift of the
Holy Ghost in the mind it works on, forms first of all justice, prudence, fortitude, temperance
. . . and doth afterwards give it a temper in the seven virtues" (viz. the gifts), so "as against
folly to bestow wisdom; against dullness, understanding; against rashness, counsel; against
fear, fortitude; against ignorance, knowledge; against hardness of heart, piety; against piety,
fear." Therefore the virtues are more excellent than the gifts.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. ii, 19) that "the virtues cannot be used to evil
purpose." But it is possible to make evil use of the gifts, for Gregory says (Moral. i, 18):
"We offer up the sacrifice of prayer . . . lest wisdom may uplift; or understanding, while
it runs nimbly, deviate from the right path; or counsel, while it multiplies itself, grow into
confusion; that fortitude, while it gives confidence, may not make us rash; lest knowledge,
while it knows and yet loves not, may swell the mind; lest piety, while it swerves from the
right line, may become distorted; and lest fear, while it is unduly alarmed, may plunge us
into the pit of despair." Therefore the virtues are more excellent than the gifts of the Holy
Ghost.

On the contrary, The gifts are bestowed to assist the virtues and to remedy certain defects,
as is shown in the passage quoted (Obj. 2), so that, seemingly, they accomplish what the virtues
cannot. Therefore the gifts are more excellent than the virtues.

I answer that, As was shown above (Q. 58, A. 3; Q. 62, A. 1), there are three kinds of virtues:
for some are theological, some intellectual, and some moral. The theological virtues are those
whereby man's mind is united to God; the intellectual virtues are those whereby reason itself
is perfected; and the moral virtues are those which perfect the powers of appetite in obedience
to the reason. On the other hand the gifts of the Holy Ghost dispose all the powers of the
soul to be amenable to the Divine motion.

Accordingly the gifts seem to be compared to the theological virtues, by which man is united
to the Holy Ghost his Mover, in the same way as the moral virtues are compared to the intellectual
virtues, which perfect the reason, the moving principle of the moral virtues. Wherefore as
the intellectual virtues are more excellent than the moral virtues and control them, so the
theological virtues are more excellent than the gifts of the Holy Ghost and regulate them.
Hence Gregory says (Moral. i, 12) that "the seven sons," i.e. the seven gifts, "never attain
the perfection of the number ten, unless all they do be done in faith, hope, and charity."

But if we compare the gifts to the other virtues, intellectual and moral, then the gifts have
the precedence of the virtues. Because the gifts perfect the soul's powers in relation to the
Holy Ghost their Mover; whereas the virtues perfect, either the reason itself, or the other
powers in relation to reason: and it is evident that the more exalted the mover, the more excellent
the disposition whereby the thing moved requires to be disposed. Therefore the gifts are more
perfect than the virtues.

Reply Obj. 1: Charity is a theological virtue; and such we grant to be more perfect than the gifts.

Reply Obj. 2: There are two ways in which one thing precedes another. One is in order of perfection
and dignity, as love of God precedes love of our neighbor: and in this way the gifts precede
the intellectual and moral virtues, but follow the theological virtues. The other is the order
of generation or disposition: thus love of one's neighbor precedes love of God, as regards
the act: and in this way moral and intellectual virtues precede the gifts, since man, through
being well subordinate to his own reason, is disposed to be rightly subordinate to God.

Reply Obj. 3: Wisdom and understanding and the like are gifts of the Holy Ghost, according
as they are quickened by charity, which "dealeth not perversely" (1 Cor. 13:4). Consequently
wisdom and understanding and the like cannot be used to evil purpose, in so far as they are
gifts of the Holy Ghost. But, lest they depart from the perfection of charity, they assist
one another. This is what Gregory means to say.

QUESTION 69

OF THE BEATITUDES (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the beatitudes: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the beatitudes differ from the gifts and virtues?

(2) Of the rewards of the beatitudes: whether they refer to this life?

(3) Of the number of the beatitudes;

(4) Of the fittingness of the rewards ascribed to the beatitudes.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 69, Art. 1]

Whether the Beatitudes Differ from the Virtues and Gifts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the beatitudes do not differ from the virtues and gifts. For
Augustine (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4) assigns the beatitudes recited by Matthew (v 3, seqq.)
to the gifts of the Holy Ghost; and Ambrose in his commentary on Luke 6:20, seqq., ascribes
the beatitudes mentioned there, to the four cardinal virtues. Therefore the beatitudes do not
differ from the virtues and gifts.

Obj. 2: Further, there are but two rules of the human will: the reason and the eternal law,
as stated above (Q. 19, A. 3; Q. 21, A. 1). Now the virtues perfect man in relation to reason;
while the gifts perfect him in relation to the eternal law of the Holy Ghost, as is clear from
what has been said (Q. 68, AA. 1, 3, seqq.). Therefore there cannot be anything else pertaining
to the rectitude of the human will, besides the virtues and gifts. Therefore the beatitudes
do not differ from them.

Obj. 3: Further, among the beatitudes are included meekness, justice, and mercy, which are
said to be virtues. Therefore the beatitudes do not differ from the virtues and gifts.

On the contrary, Certain things are included among the beatitudes, that are neither virtues
nor gifts, e.g. poverty, mourning, and peace. Therefore the beatitudes differ from the virtues
and gifts.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 2, A. 7; Q. 3, A. 1), happiness is the last end of human
life. Now one is said to possess the end already, when one hopes to possess it; wherefore the
Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 9) that "children are said to be happy because they are full of
hope"; and the Apostle says (Rom. 8:24): "We are saved by hope." Again, we hope to obtain an
end, because we are suitably moved towards that end, and approach thereto; and this implies
some action. And a man is moved towards, and approaches the happy end by works of virtue, and
above all by the works of the gifts, if we speak of eternal happiness, for which our reason
is not sufficient, since we need to be moved by the Holy Ghost, and to be perfected with His
gifts that we may obey and follow him. Consequently the beatitudes differ from the virtues
and gifts, not as habit from habit, but as act from habit.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine and Ambrose assign the beatitudes to the gifts and virtues, as acts
are ascribed to habits. But the gifts are more excellent than the cardinal virtues, as stated
above (Q. 68, A. 8). Wherefore Ambrose, in explaining the beatitudes propounded to the throng,
assigns them to the cardinal virtues, whereas Augustine, who is explaining the beatitudes delivered
to the disciples on the mountain, and so to those who were more perfect, ascribes them to the
gifts of the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument proves that no other habits, besides the virtues and gifts, rectify
human conduct.

Reply Obj. 3: Meekness is to be taken as denoting the act of meekness: and the same applies
to justice and mercy. And though these might seem to be virtues, they are nevertheless ascribed
to gifts, because the gifts perfect man in all matters wherein the virtues perfect him, as
stated above (Q. 68, A. 2).

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 69, Art. 2]

Whether the Rewards Assigned to the Beatitudes Refer to This Life?

Objection 1: It would seem that the rewards assigned to the beatitudes do not refer to this
life. Because some are said to be happy because they hope for a reward, as stated above (A.
1). Now the object of hope is future happiness. Therefore these rewards refer to the life to come.

Obj. 2: Further, certain punishments are set down in opposition to the beatitudes, Luke 6:25,
where we read: "Woe to you that are filled; for you shall hunger. Woe to you that now laugh,
for you shall mourn and weep." Now these punishments do not refer to this life, because frequently
men are not punished in this life, according to Job 21:13: "They spend their days in wealth."
Therefore neither do the rewards of the beatitudes refer to this life.

Obj. 3: Further, the kingdom of heaven which is set down as the reward of poverty is the happiness
of heaven, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xix) [*Cf. De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 1]. Again, abundant
fullness is not to be had save in the life to come, according to Ps. 16:15: "I shall be filled
[Douay: 'satisfied'] when Thy glory shall appear." Again, it is only in the future life that
we shall see God, and that our Divine sonship will be made manifest, according to 1 John 3:2:
"We are now the sons of God; and it hath not yet appeared what we shall be. We know that, when
He shall appear, we shall be like to Him, because we shall see Him as He is." Therefore these
rewards refer to the future life.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4): "These promises can be fulfilled
in this life, as we believe them to have been fulfilled in the apostles. For no words can express
that complete change into the likeness even of an angel, which is promised to us after this life."

I answer that, Expounders of Holy Writ are not agreed in speaking of these rewards. For some,
with Ambrose (Super Luc. v), hold that all these rewards refer to the life to come; while Augustine
(De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4) holds them to refer to the present life; and Chrysostom in his
homilies (In Matth. xv) says that some refer to the future, and some to the present life.

In order to make the matter clear we must take note that hope of future happiness may be in
us for two reasons. First, by reason of our having a preparation for, or a disposition to future
happiness; and this is by way of merit; secondly, by a kind of imperfect inchoation of future
happiness in holy men, even in this life. For it is one thing to hope that the tree will bear
fruit, when the leaves begin to appear, and another, when we see the first signs of the fruit.

Accordingly, those things which are set down as merits in the beatitudes, are a kind of preparation
for, or disposition to happiness, either perfect or inchoate: while those that are assigned
as rewards, may be either perfect happiness, so as to refer to the future life, or some beginning
of happiness, such as is found in those who have attained perfection, in which case they refer
to the present life. Because when a man begins to make progress in the acts of the virtues
and gifts, it is to be hoped that he will arrive at perfection, both as a wayfarer, and as
a citizen of the heavenly kingdom.

Reply Obj. 1: Hope regards future happiness as the last end: yet it may also regard the assistance
of grace as that which leads to that end, according to Ps. 27:7: "In Him hath my heart hoped,
and I have been helped."

Reply Obj. 2: Although sometimes the wicked do not undergo temporal punishment in this life,
yet they suffer spiritual punishment. Hence Augustine says (Confess. i): "Thou hast decreed,
and it is so, Lord--that the disordered mind should be its own punishment." The Philosopher,
too, says of the wicked (Ethic. ix, 4) that "their soul is divided against itself . . . one
part pulls this way, another that"; and afterwards he concludes, saying: "If wickedness makes
a man so miserable, he should strain every nerve to avoid vice." In like manner, although,
on the other hand, the good sometimes do not receive material rewards in this life, yet they
never lack spiritual rewards, even in this life, according to Matt. 19:29, and Mk. 10:30: "Ye
shall receive a hundred times as much" even "in this time."

Reply Obj. 3: All these rewards will be fully consummated in the life to come: but meanwhile
they are, in a manner, begun, even in this life. Because the "kingdom of heaven," as Augustine
says (loc. cit.), can denote the beginning of perfect wisdom, in so far as "the spirit" begins
to reign in men. The "possession" of the land denotes the well-ordered affections of the soul
that rests, by its desire, on the solid foundation of the eternal inheritance, signified by
"the land." They are "comforted" in this life, by receiving the Holy Ghost, Who is called the
"Paraclete," i.e. the Comforter. They "have their fill," even in this life, of that food of
which Our Lord said (John 4:34): "My meat is to do the will of Him that sent Me." Again, in
this life, men "obtain" God's "Mercy." Again, the eye being cleansed by the gift of understanding,
we can, so to speak, "see God." Likewise, in this life, those who are the "peacemakers" of
their own movements, approach to likeness to God, and are called "the children of God." Nevertheless
these things will be more perfectly fulfilled in heaven.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 69, Art. 3]

Whether the Beatitudes Are Suitably Enumerated?

Objection 1: It would seem that the beatitudes are unsuitably enumerated. For the beatitudes
are assigned to the gifts, as stated above (A. 1, ad 1). Now some of the gifts, viz. wisdom
and understanding, belong to the contemplative life: yet no beatitude is assigned to the act
of contemplation, for all are assigned to matters connected with the active life. Therefore
the beatitudes are insufficiently enumerated.

Obj. 2: Further, not only do the executive gifts belong to the active life, but also some of
the directive gifts, e.g. knowledge and counsel: yet none of the beatitudes seems to be directly
connected with the acts of knowledge or counsel. Therefore the beatitudes are insufficiently
indicated.

Obj. 3: Further, among the executive gifts connected with the active life, fear is said to
be connected with poverty, while piety seems to correspond to the beatitude of mercy: yet nothing
is included directly connected with justice. Therefore the beatitudes are insufficiently enumerated.

Obj. 4: Further, many other beatitudes are mentioned in Holy Writ. Thus, it is written (Job
5:17): "Blessed is the man whom God correcteth"; and (Ps. i, 1): "Blessed is the man who hath
not walked in the counsel of the ungodly"; and (Prov. 3:13): "Blessed is the man that findeth
wisdom." Therefore the beatitudes are insufficiently enumerated.

Obj. 5: On the other hand, it seems that too many are mentioned. For there are seven gifts
of the Holy Ghost: whereas eight beatitudes are indicated.

Obj. 6: Further, only four beatitudes are indicated in the sixth chapter of Luke. Therefore
the seven or eight mentioned in Matthew 5 are too many.

I answer that, These beatitudes are most suitably enumerated. To make this evident it must
be observed that beatitude has been held to consist in one of three things: for some have ascribed
it to a sensual life, some, to an active life, and some, to a contemplative life [*See Q. 3].
Now these three kinds of happiness stand in different relations to future beatitude, by hoping
for which we are said to be happy. Because sensual happiness, being false and contrary to reason,
is an obstacle to future beatitude; while happiness of the active life is a disposition of
future beatitude; and contemplative happiness, if perfect, is the very essence of future beatitude,
and, if imperfect, is a beginning thereof.

And so Our Lord, in the first place, indicated certain beatitudes as removing the obstacle
of sensual happiness. For a life of pleasure consists of two things. First, in the affluence
of external goods, whether riches or honors; from which man is withdrawn--by a virtue so that
he uses them in moderation--and by a gift, in a more excellent way, so that he despises them
altogether. Hence the first beatitude is: "Blessed are the poor in spirit," which may refer
either to the contempt of riches, or to the contempt of honors, which results from humility.
Secondly, the sensual life consists in following the bent of one's passions, whether irascible
or concupiscible. From following the irascible passions man is withdrawn--by a virtue, so that
they are kept within the bounds appointed by the ruling of reason--and by a gift, in a more
excellent manner, so that man, according to God's will, is altogether undisturbed by them:
hence the second beatitude is: "Blessed are the meek." From following the concupiscible passions,
man is withdrawn--by a virtue, so that man uses these passions in moderation--and by a gift,
so that, if necessary, he casts them aside altogether; nay more, so that, if need be, he makes
a deliberate choice of sorrow [*Cf. Q. 35, A. 3]; hence the third beatitude is: "Blessed are
they that mourn."

Active life consists chiefly in man's relations with his neighbor, either by way of duty or
by way of spontaneous gratuity. To the former we are disposed--by a virtue, so that we do not
refuse to do our duty to our neighbor, which pertains to justice--and by a gift, so that we
do the same much more heartily, by accomplishing works of justice with an ardent desire, even
as a hungry and thirsty man eats and drinks with eager appetite. Hence the fourth beatitude
is: "Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after justice." "but . . . call the poor, the
maimed," etc.; which, properly, is to have mercy: hence the fifth beatitude is: "Blessed are
the merciful."

Those things which concern the contemplative life, are either final beatitude itself, or some
beginning thereof: wherefore they are included in the beatitudes, not as merits, but as rewards.
Yet the effects of the active life, which dispose man for the contemplative life, are included
in the beatitudes. Now the effect of the active life, as regards those virtues and gifts whereby
man is perfected in himself, is the cleansing of man's heart, so that it is not defiled by
the passions: hence the sixth beatitude is: "Blessed are the clean of heart." But as regards
the virtues and gifts whereby man is perfected in relation to his neighbor, the effect of the
active life is peace, according to Isa. 32:17: "The work of justice shall be peace": hence
the seventh beatitude is "Blessed are the peacemakers."

Reply Obj. 1: The acts of the gifts which belong to the active life are indicated in the merits:
but the acts of the gifts pertaining to the contemplative life are indicated in the rewards,
for the reason given above. Because to "see God" corresponds to the gift of understanding;
and to be like God by being adoptive "children of God,"    corresponds to the gift of wisdom.

Reply Obj. 2: In things pertaining to the active life, knowledge is not sought for its own
sake, but for the sake of operation, as even the Philosopher states (Ethic. ii, 2). And therefore,
since beatitude implies something ultimate, the beatitudes do not include the acts of those
gifts which direct man in the active life, such acts, to wit, as are elicited by those gifts,
as, e.g. to counsel is the act of counsel, and to judge, the act of knowledge: but, on the
other hand, they include those operative acts of which the gifts have the direction, as, e.g.
mourning in respect of knowledge, and mercy in respect of counsel.

Reply Obj. 3: In applying the beatitudes to the gifts we may consider two things. One is likeness
of matter. In this way all the first five beatitudes may be assigned to knowledge and counsel
as to their directing principles: whereas they must be distributed among the executive gifts:
so that, to wit, hunger and thirst for justice, and mercy too, correspond to piety, which perfects
man in his relations to others; meekness to fortitude, for Ambrose says on Luke 6:22: "It is
the business of fortitude to conquer anger, and to curb indignation,"    fortitude being about
the irascible passions: poverty and mourning to the gift of fear, whereby man withdraws from
the lusts and pleasures of the world.

Secondly, we may consider the motives of the beatitudes: and, in this way, some of them will
have to be assigned differently. Because the principal motive for meekness is reverence for
God, which belongs to piety. It is thus that Augustine assigns them (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4).

Reply Obj. 4: All the beatitudes mentioned in Holy Writ must be reduced to these, either as
to the merits or as to the rewards: because they must all belong either to the active or to
the contemplative life. Accordingly, when we read, "Blessed is the man whom the Lord correcteth,"
we must refer this to the beatitude of mourning: when we read, "Blessed is the man that hath
not walked in the counsel of the ungodly," we must refer it to cleanness of heart: and when
we read, "Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom," this must be referred to the reward of the
seventh beatitude. The same applies to all others that can be adduced.

Reply Obj. 5: The eighth beatitude is a confirmation and declaration of all those that precede.
Because from the very fact that a man is confirmed in poverty of spirit, meekness, and the
rest, it follows that no persecution will induce him to renounce them. Hence the eighth beatitude
corresponds, in a way, to all the preceding seven.

Reply Obj. 6: Luke relates Our Lord's sermon as addressed to the multitude (Luke 6:17). Hence
he sets down the beatitudes according to the capacity of the multitude, who know no other happiness
than pleasure, temporal and earthly: wherefore by these four beatitudes Our Lord excludes four
things which seem to belong to such happiness. The first of these is abundance of external
goods, which he sets aside by saying: "Blessed are ye poor." The second is that man be well
off as to his body, in food and drink, and so forth; this he excludes by saying in the second
place: "Blessed are ye that hunger." The third is that it should be well with man as to joyfulness
of heart, and this he puts aside by saying: "Blessed are ye that weep now." The fourth is the
outward favor of man; and this he excludes, saying, fourthly: "Blessed shall you be, when men
shall hate you." And as Ambrose says on Luke 6:20, "poverty corresponds to temperance, which
is unmoved by delights; hunger, to justice, since who hungers is compassionate and, through
compassion gives; mourning, to prudence, which deplores perishable things; endurance of men's
hatred belongs to fortitude."

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 69, Art. 4]

Whether the Rewards of the Beatitudes Are Suitably Enumerated?

Objection 1: It would seem that the rewards of the beatitudes are unsuitably enumerated. Because
the kingdom of heaven, which is eternal life, contains all good things. Therefore, once given
the kingdom of heaven, no other rewards should be mentioned.

Obj. 2: Further, the kingdom of heaven is assigned as the reward, both of the first and of
the eighth beatitude. Therefore, on the same ground it should have been assigned to all.

Obj. 3: Further, the beatitudes are arranged in the ascending order, as Augustine remarks (De
Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 4): whereas the rewards seem to be placed in the descending order, since
to "possess the land" is less than to possess "the kingdom of heaven." Therefore these rewards
are unsuitably enumerated.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Our Lord Who propounded these rewards.

I answer that, These rewards are most suitably assigned, considering the nature of the beatitudes
in relation to the three kinds of happiness indicated above (A. 3). For the first three beatitudes
concerned the withdrawal of man from those things in which sensual happiness consists: which
happiness man desires by seeking the object of his natural desire, not where he should seek
it, viz. in God, but in temporal and perishable things. Wherefore the rewards of the first
three beatitudes correspond to these things which some men seek to find in earthly happiness.
For men seek in external things, viz. riches and honors, a certain excellence and abundance,
both of which are implied in the kingdom of heaven, whereby man attains to excellence and abundance
of good things in God. Hence Our Lord promised the kingdom of heaven to the poor in spirit.
Again, cruel and pitiless men seek by wrangling and fighting to destroy their enemies so as
to gain security for themselves. Hence Our Lord promised the meek a secure and peaceful possession
of the land of the living, whereby the solid reality of eternal goods is denoted. Again, men
seek consolation for the toils of the present life, in the lusts and pleasures of the world.
Hence Our Lord promises comfort to those that mourn.

Two other beatitudes belong to the works of active happiness, which are the works of virtues
directing man in his relations to his neighbor: from which operations some men withdraw through
inordinate love of their own good. Hence Our Lord assigns to these beatitudes rewards in correspondence
with the motives for which men recede from them. For there are some who recede from acts of
justice, and instead of rendering what is due, lay hands on what is not theirs, that they may
abound in temporal goods. Wherefore Our Lord promised those who hunger after justice, that
they shall have their fill. Some, again, recede from works of mercy, lest they be busied with
other people's misery. Hence Our Lord promised the merciful that they should obtain mercy,
and be delivered from all misery.

The last two beatitudes belong to contemplative happiness or beatitude: hence the rewards are
assigned in correspondence with the dispositions included in the merit. For cleanness of the
eye disposes one to see clearly: hence the clean of heart are promised that they shall see
God. Again, to make peace either in oneself or among others, shows a man to be a follower of
God, Who is the God of unity and peace. Hence, as a reward, he is promised the glory of the
Divine sonship, consisting in perfect union with God through consummate wisdom.

Reply Obj. 1: As Chrysostom says (Hom. xv in Matth.), all these rewards are one in reality,
viz. eternal happiness, which the human intellect cannot grasp. Hence it was necessary to describe
it by means of various boons known to us, while observing due proportion to the merits to which
those rewards are assigned.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as the eighth beatitude is a confirmation of all the beatitudes, so it deserves
all the rewards of the beatitudes. Hence it returns to the first, that we may understand all
the other rewards to be attributed to it in consequence. Or else, according to Ambrose (Super
Luc. v), the kingdom of heaven is promised to the poor in spirit, as regards the glory of the
soul; but to those who suffer persecution in their bodies, it is promised as regards the glory
of the body.

Reply Obj. 3: The rewards are also arranged in ascending order. For it is more to possess the
land of the heavenly kingdom than simply to have it: since we have many things without possessing
them firmly and peacefully. Again, it is more to be comforted in the kingdom than to have and
possess it, for there are many things the possession of which is accompanied by sorrow. Again,
it is more to have one's fill than simply to be comforted, because fulness implies abundance
of comfort. And mercy surpasses satiety, for thereby man receives more than he merited or was
able to desire. And yet more is it to see God, even as he is a greater man who not only dines
at court, but also sees the king's countenance. Lastly, the highest place in the royal palace
belongs to the king's son.

QUESTION 70

OF THE FRUITS OF THE HOLY GHOST (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the Fruits of the Holy Ghost: under which head there are four points of
inquiry:

(1) Whether the fruits of the Holy Ghost are acts?

(2) Whether they differ from the beatitudes?

(3) Of their number?

(4) Of their opposition to the works of the flesh.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 70, Art. 1]

Whether the Fruits of the Holy Ghost Which the Apostle Enumerates (Gal. 5) Are Acts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the fruits of the Holy Ghost, enumerated by the Apostle (Gal.
5:22, 23), are not acts. For that which bears fruit, should not itself be called a fruit, else
we should go on indefinitely. But our actions bear fruit: for it is written (Wis. 3:15): "The
fruit of good labor is glorious," and (John 4:36): "He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth
fruit unto life everlasting." Therefore our actions are not to be called fruits.

Obj. 2: Further, as Augustine says (De Trin. x, 10), "we enjoy [*'Fruimur', from which verb
we have the Latin 'fructus' and the English 'fruit'] the things we know, when the will rests
by rejoicing in them." But our will should not rest in our actions for their own sake. Therefore
our actions should not be called fruits.

Obj. 3: Further, among the fruits of the Holy Ghost, the Apostle numbers certain virtues, viz.
charity, meekness, faith, and chastity. Now virtues are not actions but habits, as stated above
(Q. 55, A. 1). Therefore the fruits are not actions.

On the contrary, It is written (Matt. 12:33): "By the fruit the tree is known"; that is to
say, man is known by his works, as holy men explain the passage. Therefore human actions are
called fruits.

I answer that, The word "fruit" has been transferred from the material to the spiritual world.
Now fruit, among material things, is the product of a plant when it comes to perfection, and
has a certain sweetness. This fruit has a twofold relation: to the tree that produces it, and
to the man who gathers the fruit from the tree. Accordingly, in spiritual matters, we may take
the word "fruit" in two ways: first, so that the fruit of man, who is likened to the tree,
is that which he produces; secondly, so that man's fruit is what he gathers.

Yet not all that man gathers is fruit, but only that which is last and gives pleasure. For
a man has both a field and a tree, and yet these are not called fruits; but that only which
is last, to wit, that which man intends to derive from the field and from the tree. In this
sense man's fruit is his last end which is intended for his enjoyment.

If, however, by man's fruit we understand a product of man, then human actions are called fruits:
because operation is the second act of the operator, and gives pleasure if it is suitable to him.

Reply Obj. 1: Since fruit is something last and final, nothing hinders one fruit bearing another
fruit, even as one end is subordinate to another. And so our works, in so far as they are produced
by the Holy Ghost working in us, are fruits: but, in so far as they are referred to the end
which is eternal life, they should rather be called flowers: hence it is written (Ecclus. 24:23):
"My flowers are the fruits of honor and riches."

Reply Obj. 2: When the will is said to delight in a thing for its own sake, this may be understood
in two ways. First, so that the expression "for the sake of" be taken to designate the final
cause; and in this way, man delights in nothing for its own sake, except the last end. Secondly,
so that it expresses the formal cause; and in this way, a man may delight in anything that
is delightful by reason of its form. Thus it is clear that a sick man delights in health, for
its own sake, as in an end; in a nice medicine, not as in an end, but as in something tasty;
and in a nasty medicine, nowise for its own sake, but only for the sake of something else.
Accordingly we must say that man must delight in God for His own sake, as being his last end,
and in virtuous deeds, not as being his end, but for the sake of their inherent goodness which
is delightful to the virtuous. Hence Ambrose says (De Parad. xiii) that virtuous deeds are
called fruits because "they refresh those that have them, with a holy and genuine delight."

Reply Obj. It is thus that the names of the virtues are used in reckoning the fruits.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 70, Art. 2]

Whether the Fruits Differ from the Beatitudes?

Objection 1: It would seem that the fruits do not differ from the beatitudes. For the beatitudes
are assigned to the gifts, as stated above (Q. 69, A. 1, ad 1). But the gifts perfect man in
so far as he is moved by the Holy Ghost. Therefore the beatitudes themselves are fruits of
the Holy Ghost.

Obj. 2: Further, as the fruit of eternal life is to future beatitude which is that of actual
possession, so are the fruits of the present life to the beatitudes of the present life, which
are based on hope. Now the fruit of eternal life is identified with future beatitude. Therefore
the fruits of the present life are the beatitudes.

Obj. 3: Further, fruit is essentially something ultimate and delightful. Now this is the very
nature of beatitude, as stated above (Q. 3, A. 1; Q. 4, A. 1). Therefore fruit and beatitude
have the same nature, and consequently should not be distinguished from one another.

On the contrary, Things divided into different species, differ from one another. But fruits
and beatitudes are divided into different parts, as is clear from the way in which they are
enumerated. Therefore the fruits differ from the beatitudes.

I answer that, More is required for a beatitude than for a fruit. Because it is sufficient
for a fruit to be something ultimate and delightful; whereas for a beatitude, it must be something
perfect and excellent. Hence all the beatitudes may be called fruits, but not vice versa. For
the fruits are any virtuous deeds in which one delights: whereas the beatitudes are none but
perfect works, and which, by reason of their perfection, are assigned to the gifts rather than
to the virtues, as already stated (Q. 69, A. 1, ad 1).

Reply Obj. 1: This argument proves the beatitudes to be fruits, but not that all the fruits
are beatitudes.

Reply Obj. 2: The fruit of eternal life is ultimate and perfect simply: hence it nowise differs
from future beatitude. On the other hand the fruits of the present life are not simply ultimate
and perfect; wherefore not all the fruits are beatitudes.

Reply Obj. 3: More is required for a beatitude than for a fruit, as stated.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 70, Art. 3]

Whether the Fruits Are Suitably Enumerated by the Apostle?

Objection 1: It would seem that the fruits are unsuitably enumerated by the Apostle (Gal. 5:22,
23). Because, elsewhere, he says that there is only one fruit of the present life; according
to Rom. 6:22: "You have your fruit unto sanctification." Moreover it is written (Isa. 27:9):
"This is all the fruit . . . that the sin . . . be taken away." Therefore we should not reckon
twelve fruits.

Obj. 2: Further, fruit is the product of spiritual seed, as stated (A. 1). But Our Lord mentions
(Matt. 13:23) a threefold fruit as growing from a spiritual seed in a good ground, viz. "hundredfold,
sixtyfold," and "thirtyfold." Therefore one should not reckon twelve fruits.

Obj. 3: Further, the very nature of fruit is to be something ultimate and delightful. But this
does not apply to all the fruits mentioned by the Apostle: for patience and long-suffering
seem to imply a painful object, while faith is not something ultimate, but rather something
primary and fundamental. Therefore too many fruits are enumerated.

Obj. 4: On the other hand, It seems that they are enumerated insufficiently and incompletely.
For it has been stated (A. 2) that all the beatitudes may be called fruits; yet not all are
mentioned here. Nor is there anything corresponding to the acts of wisdom, and of many other
virtues. Therefore it seems that the fruits are insufficiently enumerated.

I answer that, The number of the twelve fruits enumerated by the Apostle is suitable, and that
there may be a reference to them in the twelve fruits of which it is written (Apoc. 22:2):
"On both sides of the river was the tree bearing twelve fruits." Since, however, a fruit is
something that proceeds from a source as from a seed or root, the difference between these
fruits must be gathered from the various ways in which the Holy Ghost proceeds in us: which
process consists in this, that the mind of man is set in order, first of all, in regard to
itself; secondly, in regard to things that are near it; thirdly, in regard to things that are
below it.

Accordingly man's mind is well disposed in regard to itself when it has a good disposition
towards good things and towards evil things. Now the first disposition of the human mind towards
the good is effected by love, which is the first of our emotions and the root of them all,
as stated above (Q. 27, A. 4). Wherefore among the fruits of the Holy Ghost, we reckon "charity,"
wherein the Holy Ghost is given in a special manner, as in His own likeness, since He Himself
is love. The necessary result of the love of charity is joy: because every lover rejoices at
being united to the beloved. Now the perfection of joy is peace in two respects. Secondly,
as regards the calm of the restless desire: for he does not perfectly rejoice, who is not satisfied
with the object of his joy. Now peace implies these two things, namely, that we be not disturbed
by external things, and that our desires rest altogether in one object. Wherefore after charity
and joy, "peace" is given the third place. In evil things the mind has a good disposition,
in respect of two things. First, by not being disturbed whenever evil threatens: which pertains
to "patience"; secondly, by not being disturbed, whenever good things are delayed; which belongs
to "long suffering," since "to lack good is a kind of evil" (Ethic. v, 3).

Man's mind is well disposed as regards what is near him, viz. his neighbor, first, as to the
will to do good; and to this belongs goodness. Secondly, as to the execution of well-doing;
and to this belongs benignity, for the benign are those in whom the salutary flame (bonus ignis)
of love has enkindled the desire to be kind to their neighbor. Thirdly, as to his suffering
with equanimity the evils his neighbor inflicts on him. To this belongs meekness, which curbs
anger. Fourthly, in the point of our refraining from doing harm to our neighbor not only through
anger, but also through fraud or deceit. To this pertains faith, if we take it as denoting
fidelity. But if we take it for the faith whereby we believe in God, then man is directed thereby
to that which is above him, so that he subject his intellect and, consequently, all that is
his, to God.

Man is well disposed in respect of that which is below him, as regards external action, by
modesty, whereby we observe the mode in all our words and deeds: as regards internal desires,
by continency and chastity: whether these two differ because chastity withdraws man from unlawful
desires, continency also from lawful desires: or because the continent man is subject to concupiscence,
but is not led away; whereas the chaste man is neither subject to, nor led away from them.

Reply Obj. 1: Sanctification is effected by all the virtues, by which also sins are taken away.
Consequently fruit is mentioned there in the singular, on account of its being generically
one, though divided into many species which are spoken of as so many fruits.

Reply Obj. 2: The hundredfold, sixtyfold, and thirtyfold fruits do not differ as various species
of virtuous acts, but as various degrees of perfection, even in the same virtue. Thus continency
of the married state is said to be signified by the thirtyfold fruit; the continency of widowhood,
by the sixtyfold; and virginal continency, by the hundredfold fruit. There are, moreover, other
ways in which holy men distinguish three evangelical fruits according to the three degrees
of virtue: and they speak of three degrees, because the perfection of anything is considered
with respect to its beginning, its middle, and its end.

Reply Obj. 3: The fact of not being disturbed by painful things is something to delight in.
And as to faith, if we consider it as the foundation, it has the aspect of being ultimate and
delightful, in as much as it contains certainty: hence a gloss expounds thus: "Faith, which
is certainly about the unseen."

Reply Obj. 4: As Augustine says on Gal. 5:22, 23, "the Apostle had no intention of teaching
us how many (either works of the flesh, or fruits of the Spirit) there are; but to show how
the former should be avoided, and the latter sought after." Hence either more or fewer fruits
might have been mentioned. Nevertheless, all the acts of the gifts and virtues can be reduced
to these by a certain kind of fittingness, in so far as all the virtues and gifts must needs
direct the mind in one of the above-mentioned ways. Wherefore the acts of wisdom and of any
gifts directing to good, are reduced to charity, joy and peace. The reason why he mentions
these rather than others, is that these imply either enjoyment of good things, or relief from
evils, which things seem to belong to the notion of fruit.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 70, Art. 4]

Whether the Fruits of the Holy Ghost Are Contrary to the Works of the Flesh?

Objection 1: It would seem that the fruits of the Holy Ghost are not contrary to the works
of the flesh, which the Apostle enumerates (Gal. 5:19, seqq.). Because contraries are in the
same genus. But the works of the flesh are not called fruits. Therefore the fruits of the Spirit
are not contrary to them.

Obj. 2: Further, one thing has a contrary. Now the Apostle mentions more works of the flesh
than fruits of the Spirit. Therefore the fruits of the Spirit and the works of the flesh are
not contrary to one another.

Obj. 3: Further, among the fruits of the Spirit, the first place is given to charity, joy,
and peace: to which, fornication, uncleanness, and immodesty, which are the first of the works
of the flesh, are not opposed. Therefore the fruits of the Spirit are not contrary to the works
of the flesh.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Gal. 5:17) that "the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and
the spirit against the flesh."

I answer that, The works of the flesh and the fruits of the Spirit may be taken in two ways.
First, in general: and in this way the fruits of the Holy Ghost considered in general are contrary
to the works of the flesh. Because the Holy Ghost moves the human mind to that which is in
accord with reason, or rather to that which surpasses reason: whereas the fleshly, viz. the
sensitive, appetite draws man to sensible goods which are beneath him. Wherefore, since upward
and downward are contrary movements in the physical order, so in human actions the works of
the flesh are contrary to the fruits of the Spirit.

Secondly, both fruits and fleshly works as enumerated may be considered singly, each according
to its specific nature. And in this they are not of necessity contrary each to each: because,
as stated above (A. 3, ad 4), the Apostle did not intend to enumerate all the works, whether
spiritual or carnal. However, by a kind of adaptation, Augustine, commenting on Gal. 5:22,
23, contrasts the fruits with the carnal works, each to each. Thus "to fornication, which is
the love of satisfying lust outside lawful wedlock, we may contrast charity, whereby the soul
is wedded to God: wherein also is true chastity. By uncleanness we must understand whatever
disturbances arise from fornication: and to these the joy of tranquillity is opposed. Idolatry,
by reason of which war was waged against the Gospel of God, is opposed to peace. Against witchcrafts,
enmities, contentions, emulations, wraths and quarrels, there is longsuffering, which helps
us to bear the evils inflicted on us by those among whom we dwell; while kindness helps us
to cure those evils; and goodness, to forgive them. In contrast to heresy there is faith; to
envy, mildness; to drunkenness and revellings, contingency."

Reply Obj. 1: That which proceeds from a tree against the tree's nature, is not called its
fruit, but rather its corruption. And since works of virtue are connatural to reason, while
works of vice are contrary to nature, therefore it is that works of virtue are called fruits,
but not so works of vice.

Reply Obj. 2: "Good happens in one way, evil in all manner of ways," as Dionysius says (Div.
Nom. iv): so that to one virtue many vices are contrary. Consequently we must not be surprised
if the works of the flesh are more numerous than the fruits of the spirit.

The Reply to the Third Objection is clear from what has been said.

EVIL HABITS, i.e. VICES AND SINS (QQ. 71-89)

QUESTION 71

OF VICE AND SIN CONSIDERED IN THEMSELVES (In Six Articles)

We have in the next place to consider vice and sin: about which six points have to be considered:
(1) Vice and sin considered in themselves; (2) their distinction; (3) their comparison with
one another; (4) the subject of sin; (5) the cause of sin; (6) the effect of sin.

Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether vice is contrary to virtue?

(2) Whether vice is contrary to nature?

(3) Which is worse, a vice or a vicious act?

(4) Whether a vicious act is compatible with virtue?

(5) Whether every sin includes action?

(6) Of the definition of sin proposed by Augustine (Contra Faust. xxii): "Sin is a word, deed,
or desire against the eternal law."

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 71, Art. 1]

Whether Vice Is Contrary to Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that vice is not contrary to virtue. For one thing has one contrary,
as proved in Metaph. x, text. 17. Now sin and malice are contrary to virtue. Therefore vice
is not contrary to it: since vice applies also to undue disposition of bodily members or of
any things whatever.

Obj. 2: Further, virtue denotes a certain perfection of power. But vice does not denote anything
relative to power. Therefore vice is not contrary to virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, Cicero (De Quaest. Tusc. iv) says that "virtue is the soul's health." Now
sickness or disease, rather than vice, is opposed to health. Therefore vice is not contrary
to virtue.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Perfect. Justit. ii) that "vice is a quality in respect
of which the soul is evil." But "virtue is a quality which makes its subject good," as was
shown above (Q. 55, AA. 3, 4). Therefore vice is contrary to virtue.

I answer that, Two things may be considered in virtue--the essence of virtue, and that to which
virtue is ordained. In the essence of virtue we may consider something directly, and we may
consider something consequently. That which virtue implies consequently is that it is a kind
of goodness: because the goodness of a thing consists in its being well disposed according
to the mode of its nature. That to which virtue is directed is a good act, as was shown above
(Q. 56, A. 3).

Accordingly three things are found to be contrary to virtue. One of these is sin, which is
opposed to virtue in respect of that to which virtue is ordained: since, properly speaking,
sin denotes an inordinate act; even as an act of virtue is an ordinate and due act: in respect
of that which virtue implies consequently, viz. that it is a kind of goodness, the contrary
of virtue is malice: while in respect of that which belongs to the essence of virtue directly,
its contrary is vice: because the vice of a thing seems to consist in its not being disposed
in a way befitting its nature: hence Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. iii): "Whatever is lacking
for a thing's natural perfection may be called a vice."

Reply Obj. 1: These three things are contrary to virtue, but not in the same respect: for sin
is opposed to virtue, according as the latter is productive of a good work; malice, according
as virtue is a kind of goodness; while vice is opposed to virtue properly as such.

Reply Obj. 2: Virtue implies not only perfection of power, the principle of action; but also
the due disposition of its subject. The reason for this is because a thing operates according
as it is in act: so that a thing needs to be well disposed if it has to produce a good work.
It is in this respect that vice is contrary to virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: As Cicero says (De Quaest. Tusc. iv), "disease and sickness are vicious qualities,"
for in speaking of the body he calls it disease "when the whole body is infected," for instance,
with fever or the like; he calls it sickness "when the disease is attended with weakness";
and vice "when the parts of the body are not well compacted together." And although at times
there may be disease in the body without sickness, for instance, when a man has a hidden complaint
without being hindered outwardly from his wonted occupations; "yet, in the soul," as he says,
"these two things are indistinguishable, except in thought." For whenever a man is ill-disposed
inwardly, through some inordinate affection, he is rendered thereby unfit for fulfilling his
duties: since "a tree is known by its fruit," i.e. man by his works, according to Matt. 12:33.
But "vice of the soul," as Cicero says (De Quaest. Tusc. iv), "is a habit or affection of the
soul discordant and inconsistent with itself through life": and this is to be found even without
disease and sickness, e.g. when a man sins from weakness or passion. Consequently vice is of
wider extent than sickness or disease; even as virtue extends to more things than health; for
health itself is reckoned a kind of virtue (Phys. vii, text. 17). Consequently vice is reckoned
as contrary to virtue, more fittingly than sickness or disease.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 71, Art. 2]

Whether Vice Is Contrary to Nature?

Objection 1: It would seem that vice is not contrary to nature. Because vice is contrary to
virtue, as stated above (A. 1). Now virtue is in us, not by nature but by infusion or habituation,
as stated above (Q. 63, AA. 1, 2, 3). Therefore vice is not contrary to nature.

Obj. 2: Further, it is impossible to become habituated to that which is contrary to nature:
thus "a stone never becomes habituated to upward movement" (Ethic. ii, 1). But some men become
habituated to vice. Therefore vice is not contrary to nature.

Obj. 3: Further, anything contrary to a nature, is not found in the greater number of individuals
possessed of that nature. Now vice is found in the greater number of men; for it is written
(Matt. 7:13): "Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there are who go in thereat."
Therefore vice is not contrary to nature.

Obj. 4: Further, sin is compared to vice, as act to habit, as stated above (A. 1). Now sin
is defined as "a word, deed, or desire, contrary to the Law of God," as Augustine shows (Contra
Faust. xxii, 27). But the Law of God is above nature. Therefore we should say that vice is
contrary to the Law, rather than to nature.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. iii, 13): "Every vice, simply because it is a
vice, is contrary to nature."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), vice is contrary to virtue. Now the virtue of a thing
consists in its being well disposed in a manner befitting its nature, as stated above (A. 1).
Hence the vice of any thing consists in its being disposed in a manner not befitting its nature,
and for this reason is that thing "vituperated," which word is derived from "vice" according
to Augustine (De Lib. Arb. iii, 14).

But it must be observed that the nature of a thing is chiefly the form from which that thing
derives its species. Now man derives his species from his rational soul: and consequently whatever
is contrary to the order of reason is, properly speaking, contrary to the nature of man, as
man; while whatever is in accord with reason, is in accord with the nature of man, as man.

Reply Obj. 1: Although the virtues are not caused by nature as regards their perfection of
being, yet they incline us to that which accords with reason, i.e. with the order of reason.
For Cicero says (De Inv. Rhet. ii) that "virtue is a habit in accord with reason, like a second
nature": and it is in this sense that virtue is said to be in accord with nature, and on the
other hand that vice is contrary to nature.

Reply Obj. 2: The Philosopher is speaking there of a thing being against nature, in so far
as "being against nature" is contrary to "being from nature": and not in so far as "being against
nature" is contrary to "being in accord with nature," in which latter sense virtues are said
to be in accord with nature, in as much as they incline us to that which is suitable to nature.

Reply Obj. 3: There is a twofold nature in man, rational nature, and the sensitive nature.
And since it is through the operation of his senses that man accomplishes acts of reason, hence
there are more who follow the inclinations of the sensitive nature, than who follow the order
of reason: because more reach the beginning of a business than achieve its completion. Now
the presence of vices and sins in man is owing to the fact that he follows the inclination
of his sensitive nature against the order of his reason.

Reply Obj. 4: Whatever is irregular in a work of art, is unnatural to the art which produced
that work. Now the eternal law is compared to the order of human reason, as art to a work of
art. Therefore it amounts to the same that vice and sin are against the order of human reason,
and that they are contrary to the eternal law. Hence Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. iii, 6) that
"every nature, as such, is from God; and is a vicious nature, in so far as it fails from the
Divine art whereby it was made."

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 71, Art. 3]

Whether Vice Is Worse Than a Vicious Act?

Objection 1: It would seem that vice, i.e. a bad habit, is worse than a sin, i.e. a bad act.
For, as the more lasting a good is, the better it is, so the longer an evil lasts, the worse
it is. Now a vicious habit is more lasting than vicious acts, that pass forthwith. Therefore
a vicious habit is worse than a vicious act.

Obj. 2: Further, several evils are more to be shunned than one. But a bad habit is virtually
the cause of many bad acts. Therefore a vicious habit is worse than a vicious act.

Obj. 3: Further, a cause is more potent than its effect. But a habit produces its actions both
as to their goodness and as to their badness. Therefore a habit is more potent than its act,
both in goodness and in badness.

On the contrary, A man is justly punished for a vicious act; but not for a vicious habit, so
long as no act ensues. Therefore a vicious action is worse than a vicious habit.

I answer that, A habit stands midway between power and act. Now it is evident that both in
good and in evil, act precedes power, as stated in Metaph. ix, 19. For it is better to do well
than to be able to do well, and in like manner, it is more blameworthy to do evil, than to
be able to do evil: whence it also follows that both in goodness and in badness, habit stands
midway between power and act, so that, to wit, even as a good or evil habit stands above the
corresponding power in goodness or in badness, so does it stand below the corresponding act.
This is also made clear from the fact that a habit is not called good or bad, save in so far
as it induces to a good or bad act: wherefore a habit is called good or bad by reason of the
goodness or badness of its act: so that an act surpasses its habit in goodness or badness,
since "the cause of a thing being such, is yet more so."

Reply Obj. 1: Nothing hinders one thing from standing above another simply, and below it in
some respect. Now a thing is deemed above another simply if it surpasses it in a point which
is proper to both; while it is deemed above it in a certain respect, if it surpasses it in
something which is accidental to both. Now it has been shown from the very nature of act and
habit, that act surpasses habit both in goodness and in badness. Whereas the fact that habit
is more lasting than act, is accidental to them, and is due to the fact that they are both
found in a nature such that it cannot always be in action, and whose action consists in a transient
movement. Consequently act simply excels in goodness and badness, but habit excels in a certain
respect.

Reply Obj. 2: A habit is several acts, not simply, but in a certain respect, i.e. virtually.
Wherefore this does not prove that habit precedes act simply, both in goodness and in badness.

Reply Obj. 3: Habit causes act by way of efficient causality: but act causes habit, by way
of final causality, in respect of which we consider the nature of good and evil. Consequently
act surpasses habit both in goodness and in badness.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 71, Art. 4]

Whether Sin Is Compatible with Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that a vicious act, i.e. sin, is incompatible with virtue. For contraries
cannot be together in the same subject. Now sin is, in some way, contrary to virtue, as stated
above (A. 1). Therefore sin is incompatible with virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, sin is worse than vice, i.e. evil act than evil habit. But vice cannot be
in the same subject with virtue: neither, therefore, can sin.

Obj. 3: Further, sin occurs in natural things, even as in voluntary matters (Phys. ii, text.
82). Now sin never happens in natural things, except through some corruption of the natural
power; thus monsters are due to corruption of some elemental force in the seed, as stated in
Phys. ii. Therefore no sin occurs in voluntary matters, except through the corruption of some
virtue in the soul: so that sin and virtue cannot be together in the same subject.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 2, 3) that "virtue is engendered and corrupted
by contrary causes." Now one virtuous act does not cause a virtue, as stated above (Q. 51,
A. 3): and, consequently, one sinful act does not corrupt virtue. Therefore they can be together
in the same subject.

I answer that, Sin is compared to virtue, as evil act to good habit. Now the position of a
habit in the soul is not the same as that of a form in a natural thing. For the form of a natural
thing produces, of necessity, an operation befitting itself; wherefore a natural form is incompatible
with the act of a contrary form: thus heat is incompatible with the act of cooling, and lightness
with downward movement (except perhaps violence be used by some extrinsic mover): whereas the
habit that resides in the soul, does not, of necessity, produce its operation, but is used
by man when he wills. Consequently man, while possessing a habit, may either fail to use the
habit, or produce a contrary act; and so a man having a virtue may produce an act of sin. And
this sinful act, so long as there is but one, cannot corrupt virtue, if we compare the act
to the virtue itself as a habit: since, just as habit is not engendered by one act, so neither
is it destroyed by one act as stated above (Q. 63, A. 2, ad 2). But if we compare the sinful
act to the cause of the virtues, then it is possible for some virtues to be destroyed by one
sinful act. For every mortal sin is contrary to charity, which is the root of all the infused
virtues, as virtues; and consequently, charity being banished by one act of mortal sin, it
follows that all the infused virtues are expelled as virtues. And I say [this] on account of
faith and hope, whose habits remain unquickened after mortal sin, so that they are no longer
virtues. On the other hand, since venial sin is neither contrary to charity, nor banishes it,
as a consequence, neither does it expel the other virtues. As to the acquired virtues, they
are not destroyed by one act of any kind of sin.

Accordingly, mortal sin is incompatible with the infused virtues, but is consistent with acquired
virtue: while venial sin is compatible with virtues, whether infused or acquired.

Reply Obj. 1: Sin is contrary to virtue, not by reason of itself, but by reason of its act.
Hence sin is incompatible with the act, but not with the habit, of virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: Vice is directly contrary to virtue, even as sin to virtuous act: and so vice
excludes virtue, just as sin excludes acts of virtue.

Reply Obj. 3: The natural powers act of necessity, and hence so long as the power is unimpaired,
no sin can be found in the act. On the other hand, the virtues of the soul do not produce their
acts of necessity; hence the comparison fails.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 71, Art. 5]

Whether Every Sin Includes an Action?

Objection 1: It would seem that every sin includes an action. For as merit is compared with
virtue, even so is sin compared with vice. Now there can be no merit without an action. Neither,
therefore, can there be sin without action.

Obj. Now nothing can be voluntary, save through an act of the will. Therefore every sin implies
an act.

Obj. 3: Further, if sin could be without act, it would follow that a man sins as soon as he
ceases doing what he ought. Now he who never does something that he ought to do, ceases continually
doing what he ought. Therefore it would follow that he sins continually; and this is untrue.
Therefore there is no sin without an act. Now "not to do" does not imply an act. Therefore
sin can be without act.

I answer that, The reason for urging this question has reference to the sin of omission, about
which there have been various opinions. For some say that in every sin of omission there is
some act, either interior or exterior--interior, as when a man wills not to go to church, when
he is bound to go--exterior, as when a man, at the very hour that he is bound to go to church
(or even before), occupies himself in such a way that he is hindered from going. This seems,
in a way, to amount to the same as the first, for whoever wills one thing that is incompatible
with this other, wills, consequently, to go without this other: unless, perchance, it does
not occur to him, that what he wishes to do, will hinder him from that which he is bound to
do, in which case he might be deemed guilty of negligence. On the other hand, others say, that
a sin of omission does not necessarily suppose an act: for the mere fact of not doing what
one is bound to do is a sin.

Now each of these opinions has some truth in it. For if in the sin of omission we look merely
at that in which the essence of the sin consists, the sin of omission will be sometimes with
an interior act, as when a man wills not to go to church: while sometimes it will be without
any act at all, whether interior or exterior, as when a man, at the time that he is bound to
go to church, does not think of going or not going to church.

If, however, in the sin of omission, we consider also the causes, or occasions of the omission,
then the sin of omission must of necessity include some act. For there is no sin of omission,
unless we omit what we can do or not do: and that we turn aside so as not to do what we can
do or not do, must needs be due to some cause or occasion, either united with the omission
or preceding it. Now if this cause be not in man's power, the omission will not be sinful,
as when anyone omits going to church on account of sickness: but if the cause or occasion be
subject to the will, the omission is sinful; and such cause, in so far as it is voluntary,
must needs always include some act, at least the interior act of the will: which act sometimes
bears directly on the omission, as when a man wills not to go to church, because it is too
much trouble; and in this case this act, of its very nature, belongs to the omission, because
the volition of any sin whatever, pertains, of itself, to that sin, since voluntariness is
essential to sin. Sometimes, however, the act of the will bears directly on something else
which hinders man from doing what he ought, whether this something else be united with the
omission, as when a man wills to play at the time he ought to go to church--or, precede the
omission, as when a man wills to sit up late at night, the result being that he does not go
to church in the morning. In this case the act, interior or exterior, is accidental to the
omission, since the omission follows outside the intention, and that which is outside the intention
is said to be accidental (Phys. ii, text. 49, 50). Wherefore it is evident that then the sin
of omission has indeed an act united with, or preceding the omission, but that this act is
accidental to the sin of omission.

Now in judging about things, we must be guided by that which is proper to them, and not by
that which is accidental: and consequently it is truer to say that a sin can be without any
act; else the circumstantial acts and occasions would be essential to other actual sins.

Reply Obj. 1: More things are required for good than for evil, since "good results from a whole
and entire cause, whereas evil results from each single defect," as Dionysius states (Div.
Nom. iv): so that sin may arise from a man doing what he ought not, or by his not doing what
he ought; while there can be no merit, unless a man do willingly what he ought to do: wherefore
there can be no merit without act, whereas there can be sin without act.

Reply Obj. 2: The term "voluntary" is applied not only to that on which the act of the will
is brought to bear, but also to that which we have the power to do or not to do, as stated
in Ethic. iii, 5. Hence even not to will may be called voluntary, in so far as man has it in
his power to will, and not to will.

Reply Obj. 3: The sin of omission is contrary to an affirmative precept which binds always,
but not for always. Hence, by omitting to act, a man sins only for the time at which the affirmative
precept binds him to act.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 71, Art. 6]

Whether Sin Is Fittingly Defined As a Word, Deed, or Desire Contrary to the Eternal Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin is unfittingly defined by saying: "Sin is a word, deed,
or desire, contrary to the eternal law." Because "word," "deed," and "desire" imply an act;
whereas not every sin implies an act, as stated above (A. 5). Therefore this definition does
not include every sin.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Duab. Anim. xii): "Sin is the will to retain or obtain
what justice forbids." Now will is comprised under desire, in so far as desire denotes any
act of the appetite. Therefore it was enough to say: "Sin is a desire contrary to the eternal
law," nor was there need to add "word" or "deed."

Obj. 3: Further, sin apparently consists properly in aversion from the end: because good and
evil are measured chiefly with regard to the end as explained above (Q. 1, A. 3; Q. 18, AA.
4, 6; Q. 20, AA. 2, 3): wherefore Augustine (De Lib. Arb. i) defines sin in reference to the
end, by saying that "sin is nothing else than to neglect eternal things, and seek after temporal
things": and again he says (Qq. lxxxii, qu. 30) that "all human wickedness consists in using
what we should enjoy, and in enjoying what we should use." Now the definition in question contains
no mention of aversion from our due end: therefore it is an insufficient definition of sin.

Obj. 4: Further, a thing is said to be forbidden, because it is contrary to the law. Now not
all sins are evil through being forbidden, but some are forbidden because they are evil. Therefore
sin in general should not be defined as being against the law of God.

Obj. 5: Further, a sin denotes a bad human act, as was explained above (A. 1). Now man's evil
is to be against reason, as Dionysius states (Div. Nom. iv). Therefore it would have been better
to say that sin is against reason than to say that it is contrary to the eternal law.

On the contrary, the authority of Augustine suffices (Contra Faust. xxii, 27).

I answer that, As was shown above (A. 1), sin is nothing else than a bad human act. Now that
an act is a human act is due to its being voluntary, as stated above (Q. 1, A. 1), whether
it be voluntary, as being elicited by the will, e.g. to will or to choose, or as being commanded
by the will, e.g. the exterior actions of speech or operation. Again, a human act is evil through
lacking conformity with its due measure: and conformity of measure in a thing depends on a
rule, from which if that thing depart, it is incommensurate. Now there are two rules of the
human will: one is proximate and homogeneous, viz. the human reason; the other is the first
rule, viz. the eternal law, which is God's reason, so to speak. Accordingly Augustine (Contra
Faust. xxii, 27) includes two things in the definition of sin; one, pertaining to the substance
of a human act, and which is the matter, so to speak, of sin, when he says "word, deed, or
desire"; the other, pertaining to the nature of evil, and which is the form, as it were, of
sin, when he says, "contrary to the eternal law."

Reply Obj. 1: Affirmation and negation are reduced to one same genus: e.g. in Divine things,
begotten and unbegotten are reduced to the genus "relation," as Augustine states (De Trin.
v, 6, 7): and so "word" and "deed" denote equally what is said and what is not said, what is
done and what is not done.

Reply Obj. 2: The first cause of sin is in the will, which commands all voluntary acts, in
which alone is sin to be found: and hence it is that Augustine sometimes defines sin in reference
to the will alone. But since external acts also pertain to the substance of sin, through being
evil of themselves, as stated, it was necessary in defining sin to include something referring
to external action.

Reply Obj. 3: The eternal law first and foremost directs man to his end, and in consequence,
makes man to be well disposed in regard to things which are directed to the end: hence when
he says, "contrary to the eternal law," he includes aversion from the end and all other forms
of inordinateness.

Reply Obj. 4: When it is said that not every sin is evil through being forbidden, this must
be understood of prohibition by positive law. If, however, the prohibition be referred to the
natural law, which is contained primarily in the eternal law, but secondarily in the natural
code of the human reason, then every sin is evil through being prohibited: since it is contrary
to natural law, precisely because it is inordinate.

Reply Obj. 5: The theologian considers sin chiefly as an offense against God; and the moral
philosopher, as something contrary to reason. Hence Augustine defines sin with reference to
its being "contrary to the eternal law," more fittingly than with reference to its being contrary
to reason; the more so, as the eternal law directs us in many things that surpass human reason,
e.g. in matters of faith.

QUESTION 72

OF THE DISTINCTION OF SINS (In Nine Articles)

We must now consider the distinction of sins or vices: under which head there are nine points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether sins are distinguished specifically by their objects?

(2) Of the distinction between spiritual and carnal sins;

(3) Whether sins differ in reference to their causes?

(4) Whether they differ with respect to those who are sinned against?

(5) Whether sins differ in relation to the debt of punishment?

(6) Whether they differ in regard to omission and commission?

(7) Whether they differ according to their various stages?

(8) Whether they differ in respect of excess and deficiency?

(9) Whether they differ according to their various circumstances?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 1]

Whether Sins Differ in Species According to Their Objects?

Objection 1: It would seem that sins do not differ in species, according to their objects.
For acts are said to be good or evil, in relation, chiefly, to their end, as shown above (Q.
1, A. 3; Q. 18, AA. 4, 6). Since then sin is nothing else than a bad human act, as stated above
(Q. 71, A. 1), it seems that sins should differ specifically according to their ends rather
than according to their objects.

Obj. 2: Further, evil, being a privation, differs specifically according to the different species
of opposites. Now sin is an evil in the genus of human acts. Therefore sins differ specifically
according to their opposites rather than according to their objects.

Obj. 3: Further, if sins differed specifically according to their objects, it would be impossible
to find the same specific sin with diverse objects: and yet such sins are to be found. For
pride is about things spiritual and material as Gregory says (Moral. xxxiv, 18); and avarice
is about different kinds of things. Therefore sins do not differ in species according to their
objects.

On the contrary, "Sin is a word, deed, or desire against God's law." Now words, deeds, and
desires differ in species according to their various objects: since acts differ by their objects,
as stated above (Q. 18, A. 2). Therefore sins, also differ in species according to their objects.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 71, A. 6), two things concur in the nature of sin, viz.
the voluntary act, and its inordinateness, which consists in departing from God's law. Of these
two, one is referred essentially to the sinner, who intends such and such an act in such and
such matter; while the other, viz. the inordinateness of the act, is referred accidentally
to the intention of the sinner, for "no one acts intending evil," as Dionysius declares (Div.
Nom. iv). Now it is evident that a thing derives its species from that which is essential and
not from that which is accidental: because what is accidental is outside the specific nature.
Consequently sins differ specifically on the part of the voluntary acts rather than of the
inordinateness inherent to sin. Now voluntary acts differ in species according to their objects,
as was proved above (Q. 18, A. 2). Therefore it follows that sins are properly distinguished
in species by their objects.

Reply Obj. 1: The aspect of good is found chiefly in the end: and therefore the end stands
in the relation of object to the act of the will which is at the root of every sin. Consequently
it amounts to the same whether sins differ by their objects or by their ends.

Reply Obj. 2: Sin is not a pure privation but an act deprived of its due order: hence sins
differ specifically according to the objects of their acts rather than according to their opposites,
although, even if they were distinguished in reference to their opposite virtues, it would
come to the same: since virtues differ specifically according to their objects, as stated above
(Q. 60, A. 5).

Reply Obj. 3: In various things, differing in species or genus, nothing hinders our finding
one formal aspect of the object, from which aspect sin receives its species. It is thus that
pride seeks excellence in reference to various things; and avarice seeks abundance of things
adapted to human use.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 2]

Whether Spiritual Sins Are Fittingly Distinguished from Carnal Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that spiritual sins are unfittingly distinguished from carnal sins.
Now carnal sins are called works of the flesh. Therefore carnal sins should not be distinguished
from spiritual sins.

Obj. 2: Further, whosoever sins, walks according to the flesh, as stated in Rom. 8:13: "If
you live according to the flesh, you shall die. But if by the spirit you mortify the deeds
of the flesh, you shall live." Now to live or walk according to the flesh seems to pertain
to the nature of carnal sin. Therefore carnal sins should not be distinguished from spiritual sins.

Obj. 3: Further, the higher part of the soul, which is the mind or reason, is called the spirit,
according to Eph. 4:23: "Be renewed in the spirit of your mind," where spirit stands for reason,
according to a gloss. Now every sin, which is committed in accordance with the flesh, flows
from the reason by its consent; since consent in a sinful act belongs to the higher reason,
as we shall state further on (Q. 74, A. 7). Therefore the same sins are both carnal and spiritual,
and consequently they should not be distinguished from one another.

Obj. 4: Further, if some sins are carnal specifically, this, seemingly, should apply chiefly
to those sins whereby man sins against his own body. But, according to the Apostle (1 Cor.
6:18), "every sin that a man doth, is without the body: but he that committeth fornication,
sinneth against his own body." Therefore fornication would be the only carnal sin, whereas
the Apostle (Eph. 5:3) reckons covetousness with the carnal sins.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 17) says that "of the seven capital sins five are spiritual,
and two carnal."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), sins take their species from their objects. Now every
sin consists in the desire for some mutable good, for which man has an inordinate desire, and
the possession of which gives him inordinate pleasure. Now, as explained above (Q. 31, A. 3),
pleasure is twofold. One belongs to the soul, and is consummated in the mere apprehension of
a thing possessed in accordance with desire; this can also be called spiritual pleasure, e.g.
when one takes pleasure in human praise or the like. The other pleasure is bodily or natural,
and is realized in bodily touch, and this can also be called carnal pleasure.

Accordingly, those sins which consist in spiritual pleasure, are called spiritual sins; while
those which consist in carnal pleasure, are called carnal sins, e.g. gluttony, which consists
in the pleasures of the table; and lust, which consists in sexual pleasures.

Reply Obj. 1: As a gloss says on the same passage, these vices are called works of the flesh,
not as though they consisted in carnal pleasure; but flesh here denotes man, who is said to
live according to the flesh, when he lives according to himself, as Augustine says (De Civ.
Dei xiv, 2, 3). The reason of this is because every failing in the human reason is due in some
way to the carnal sense.

This suffices for the Reply to the Second Objection.

Reply Obj. 3: Even in the carnal sins there is a spiritual act, viz. the act of reason: but
the end of these sins, from which they are named, is carnal pleasure.

Reply Obj. 4: As the gloss says, "in the sin of fornication the soul is the body's slave in
a special sense, because at the moment of sinning it can think of nothing else": whereas the
pleasure of gluttony, although carnal, does not so utterly absorb the reason. It may also be
said that in this sin, an injury is done to the body also, for it is defiled inordinately:
wherefore by this sin alone is man said specifically to sin against his body. While covetousness,
which is reckoned among the carnal sins, stands here for adultery, which is the unjust appropriation
of another's wife. Again, it may be said that the thing in which the covetous man takes pleasure
is something bodily, and in this respect covetousness is numbered with the carnal sins: but
the pleasure itself does not belong to the body, but to the spirit, wherefore Gregory says
(Moral. xxxi, 17) that it is a spiritual sin.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 3]

Whether Sins Differ Specifically in Reference to Their Causes?

Objection 1: It would seem that sins differ specifically in reference to their causes. For
a thing takes its species from that whence it derives its being. Now sins derive their being
from their causes. Therefore they take their species from them also. Therefore they differ
specifically in reference to their causes.

Obj. 2: Further, of all the causes the material cause seems to have least reference to the
species. Now the object in a sin is like its material cause. Since, therefore, sins differ
specifically according to their objects, it seems that much more do they differ in reference
to their other causes.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine, commenting on Ps. 79:17, "Things set on fire and dug down," says
that "every sin is due either to fear inducing false humility, or to love enkindling us to
undue ardor." For it is written (1 John 2:16) that "all that is in the world, is the concupiscence
of the flesh, or [Vulg.: 'and'] the concupiscence of the eyes, or [Vulg.: 'and'] the pride
of life." Now a thing is said to be in the world on account of sin, in as much as the world
denotes lovers of the world, as Augustine observes (Tract. ii in Joan.). Gregory, too (Moral.
xxxi, 17), distinguishes all sins according to the seven capital vices. Now all these divisions
refer to the causes of sins. Therefore, seemingly, sins differ specifically according to the
diversity of their causes.

On the contrary, If this were the case all sins would belong to one species, since they are
due to one cause. For it is written (Ecclus. 10:15) that "pride is the beginning of all sin,"
and (1 Tim. 6:10) that "the desire of money is the root of all evils." Now it is evident that
there are various species of sins. Therefore sins do not differ specifically according to their
different causes.

I answer that, Since there are four kinds of causes, they are attributed to various things
in various ways. Because the formal and the material cause regard properly the substance of
a thing; and consequently substances differ in respect of their matter and form, both in species
and in genus. The agent and the end regard directly movement and operation: wherefore movements
and operations differ specifically in respect of these causes; in different ways, however,
because the natural active principles are always determined to the same acts; so that the different
species of natural acts are taken not only from the objects, which are the ends or terms of
those acts, but also from their active principles: thus heating and cooling are specifically
distinct with reference to hot and cold. On the other hand, the active principles in voluntary
acts, such as the acts of sins, are not determined, of necessity, to one act, and consequently
from one active or motive principle, diverse species of sins can proceed: thus from fear engendering
false humility man may proceed to theft, or murder, or to neglect the flock committed to his
care; and these same things may proceed from love enkindling to undue ardor. Hence it is evident
that sins do not differ specifically according to their various active or motive causes, but
only in respect of diversity in the final cause, which is the end and object of the will. For
it has been shown above (Q. 1, A. 3; Q. 18, AA. 4, 6) that human acts take their species from
the end.

Reply Obj. 1: The active principles in voluntary acts, not being determined to one act, do
not suffice for the production of human acts, unless the will be determined to one by the intention
of the end, as the Philosopher proves (Metaph. ix, text. 15, 16), and consequently sin derives
both its being and its species from the end.

Reply Obj. 2: Objects, in relation to external acts, have the character of matter "about which";
but, in relation to the interior act of the will, they have the character of end; and it is
owing to this that they give the act its species. Nevertheless, even considered as the matter
"about which," they have the character of term, from which movement takes its species (Phys.
v, text. 4; Ethic. x, 4); yet even terms of movement specify movements, in so far as term has
the character of end.

Reply Obj. 3: These distinctions of sins are given, not as distinct species of sins, but to
show their various causes.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 4]

Whether Sin Is Fittingly Divided into Sin Against God, Against Oneself, and Against One's Neighbor?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin is unfittingly divided into sin against God, against one's
neighbor, and against oneself. For that which is common to all sins should not be reckoned
as a part in the division of sin. But it is common to all sins to be against God: for it is
stated in the definition of sin that it is "against God's law," as stated above (Q. 66, A.
6). Therefore sin against God should not be reckoned a part of the division of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, every division should consist of things in opposition to one another. But
these three kinds of sin are not opposed to one another: for whoever sins against his neighbor,
sins against himself and against God. Therefore sin is not fittingly divided into these three.

Obj. 3: Further, specification is not taken from things external. But God and our neighbor
are external to us. Therefore sins are not distinguished specifically with regard to them:
and consequently sin is unfittingly divided according to these three.

On the contrary, Isidore (De Summo Bono), in giving the division of sins, says that "man is
said to sin against himself, against God, and against his neighbor."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 71, AA. 1, 6), sin is an inordinate act. Now there should
be a threefold order in man: one in relation to the rule of reason, in so far as all our actions
and passions should be commensurate with the rule of reason: another order is in relation to
the rule of the Divine Law, whereby man should be directed in all things: and if man were by
nature a solitary animal, this twofold order would suffice. But since man is naturally a civic
and social animal, as is proved in Polit. i, 2, hence a third order is necessary, whereby man
is directed in relation to other men among whom he has to dwell. Of these orders the second
contains the first and surpasses it. For whatever things are comprised under the order of reason,
are comprised under the order of God Himself. Yet some things are comprised under the order
of God, which surpass the human reason, such as matters of faith, and things due to God alone.
Hence he that sins in such matters, for instance, by heresy, sacrilege, or blasphemy, is said
to sin against God. In like manner, the first order includes the third and surpasses it, because
in all things wherein we are directed in reference to our neighbor, we need to be directed
according to the order of reason. Yet in some things we are directed according to reason, in
relation to ourselves only, and not in reference to our neighbor; and when man sins in these
matters, he is said to sin against himself, as is seen in the glutton, the lustful, and the
prodigal. But when man sins in matters concerning his neighbor, he is said to sin against his
neighbor, as appears in the thief and murderer. Now the things whereby man is directed to God,
his neighbor, and himself are diverse. Wherefore this distinction of sins is in respect of
their objects, according to which the species of sins are diversified: and consequently this
distinction of sins is properly one of different species of sins: because the virtues also,
to which sins are opposed, differ specifically in respect of these three. For it is evident
from what has been said (Q. 62, AA. 1, 2, 3) that by the theological virtues man is directed
to God; by temperance and fortitude, to himself; and by justice to his neighbor.

Reply Obj. 1: To sin against God is common to all sins, in so far as the order to God includes
every human order; but in so far as order to God surpasses the other two orders, sin against
God is a special kind of sin.

Reply Obj. 2: When several things, of which one includes another, are distinct from one another,
this distinction is understood to refer, not to the part contained in another, but to that
in which one goes beyond another. This may be seen in the division of numbers and figures:
for a triangle is distinguished from a four-sided figure not in respect of its being contained
thereby, but in respect of that in which it is surpassed thereby: and the same applies to the
numbers three and four.

Reply Obj. 3: Although God and our neighbor are external to the sinner himself, they are not
external to the act of sin, but are related to it as to its object.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 5]

Whether the Division of Sins According to Their Debt of Punishment Diversifies Their Species?

Objection 1: It would seem that the division of sins according to their debt of punishment
diversifies their species; for instance, when sin is divided into "mortal" and "venial." For
things which are infinitely apart, cannot belong to the same species, nor even to the same
genus. But venial and mortal sin are infinitely apart, since temporal punishment is due to
venial sin, and eternal punishment to mortal sin; and the measure of the punishment corresponds
to the gravity of the fault, according to Deut. 25:2: "According to the measure of the sin
shall the measure be also of the stripes be." Therefore venial and mortal sins are not of the
same genus, nor can they be said to belong to the same species.

Obj. 2: Further, some sins are mortal in virtue of their species [*Ex genere, genus in this
case denoting the species], as murder and adultery; and some are venial in virtue of their
species, as in an idle word, and excessive laughter. Therefore venial and mortal sins differ
specifically.

Obj. 3: Further, just as a virtuous act stands in relation to its reward, so does sin stand
in relation to punishment. But the reward is the end of the virtuous act. Therefore punishment
is the end of sin. Now sins differ specifically in relation to their ends, as stated above
(A. 1, ad 1). Therefore they are also specifically distinct according to the debt of punishment.

On the contrary, Those things that constitute a species are prior to the species, e.g. specific
differences. But punishment follows sin as the effect thereof. Therefore sins do not differ
specifically according to the debt of punishment.

I answer that, In things that differ specifically we find a twofold difference: the first causes
the diversity of species, and is not to be found save in different species, e.g. "rational"
and "irrational," "animate," and "inanimate": the other difference is consequent to specific
diversity; and though, in some cases, it may [follow from the diversity of species], yet, in
others, it may be found within the same species; thus "white" and "black" are consequent to
the specific diversity of crow and swan, and yet this difference is found within the one species
of man.

We must therefore say that the difference between venial and mortal sin, or any other difference
is respect of the debt of punishment, cannot be a difference constituting specific diversity.
For what is accidental never constitutes a species; and what is outside the agent's intention
is accidental (Phys. ii, text. 50). Now it is evident that punishment is outside the intention
of the sinner, wherefore it is accidentally referred to sin on the part of the sinner. Nevertheless
it is referred to sin by an extrinsic principle, viz. the justice of the judge, who imposes
various punishments according to the various manners of sin. Therefore the difference derived
from the debt of punishment, may be consequent to the specific  diversity of sins, but cannot
constitute it.

Now the difference between venial and mortal sin is consequent to the diversity of that inordinateness
which constitutes the notion of sin. For inordinateness is twofold, one that destroys the principle
of order, and another which, without destroying the principle of order, implies inordinateness
in the things which follow the principle: thus, in an animal's body, the frame may be so out
of order that the vital principle is destroyed; this is the inordinateness of death; while,
on the other hand, saving the vital principle, there may be disorder in the bodily humors;
and then there is sickness. Now the principle of the entire moral order is the last end, which
stands in the same relation to matters of action, as the indemonstrable principle does to matters
of speculation (Ethic. vii, 8). Therefore when the soul is so disordered by sin as to turn
away from its last end, viz. God, to Whom it is united by charity, there is mortal sin; but
when it is disordered without turning away from God, there is venial sin. For even as in the
body, the disorder of death which results from the destruction of the principle of life, is
irreparable according to nature, while the disorder of sickness can be repaired by reason of
the vital principle being preserved, so it is in matters concerning the soul. Because, in speculative
matters, it is impossible to convince one who errs in the principles, whereas one who errs,
but retains the principles, can be brought back to the truth by means of the principles. Likewise
in practical matters, he who, by sinning, turns away from his last end, if we consider the
nature of his sin, falls irreparably, and therefore is said to sin mortally and to deserve
eternal punishment: whereas when a man sins without turning away from God, by the very nature
of his sin, his disorder can be repaired, because the principle of the order is not destroyed;
wherefore he is said to sin venially, because, to wit, he does not sin so as to deserve to
be punished eternally.

Reply Obj. 1: Mortal and venial sins are infinitely apart as regards what they turn away from,
not as regards what they turn to, viz. the object which specifies them. Hence nothing hinders
the same species from including mortal and venial sins; for instance, in the species "adultery"
the first movement is a venial sin; while an idle word, which is, generally speaking, venial,
may even be a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 2: From the fact that one sin is mortal by reason of its species, and another venial
by reason of its species, it follows that this difference is consequent to the specific difference
of sins, not that it is the cause thereof. And this difference may be found even in things
of the same species, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: The reward is intended by him that merits or acts virtu[ous]ly; whereas the punishment
is not intended by the sinner, but, on the contrary, is against his will. Hence the comparison
fails.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 6]

Whether Sins of Commission and Omission Differ Specifically?

Objection 1: It would seem that sins of commission and omission differ specifically. For "offense"
and "sin" are condivided with one another (Eph. 2:1), where it is written: "When you were dead
in your offenses and sins," which words a gloss explains, saying: "'Offenses,' by omitting
to do what was commanded, and 'sins,' by doing what was forbidden." Whence it is evident that
"offenses" here denotes sins of omission; while "sin" denotes sins of commission. Therefore
they differ specifically, since they are contrasted with one another as different species.

Obj. 2: Further, it is essential to sin to be against God's law, for this is part of its definition,
as is clear from what has been said (Q. 71, A. 6). Now in God's law, the affirmative precepts,
against which is the sin of omission, are different from the negative precepts, against which
is the sin of omission. Therefore sins of omission and commission differ specifically.

Obj. 3: Further, omission and commission differ as affirmation and negation. Now affirmation
and negation cannot be in the same species, since negation has no species; for "there is neither
species nor difference of non-being," as the Philosopher states (Phys. iv, text. 67). Therefore
omission and commission cannot belong to the same species.

On the contrary, Omission and commission are found in the same species of sin. For the covetous
man both takes what belongs to others, which is a sin of commission; and gives not of his own
to whom he should give, which is a sin of omission. Therefore omission and commission do not
differ specifically.

I answer that, There is a twofold difference in sins; a material difference and a formal difference:
the material difference is to be observed in the natural species of the sinful act; while the
formal difference is gathered from their relation to one proper end, which is also their proper
object. Hence we find certain acts differing from one another in the material specific difference,
which are nevertheless formally in the same species of sin, because they are directed to the
one same end: thus strangling, stoning, and stabbing come under the one species of murder,
although the actions themselves differ specifically according to the natural species. Accordingly,
if we refer to the material species in sins of omission and commission, they differ specifically,
using species in a broad sense, in so far as negation and privation may have a species. But
if we refer to the formal species of sins of omission and commission, they do not differ specifically,
because they are directed to the same end, and proceed from the same motive. For the covetous
man, in order to hoard money, both robs, and omits to give what he ought, and in like manner,
the glutton, to satiate his appetite, both eats too much and omits the prescribed fasts. The
same applies to other sins: for in things, negation is always founded on affirmation, which,
in a manner, is its cause. Hence in the physical order it comes under the same head, that fire
gives forth heat, and that it does not give forth cold.

Reply Obj. 1: This division in respect of commission and omission, is not according to different
formal species, but only according to material species, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: In God's law, the necessity for various affirmative and negative precepts, was
that men might be gradually led to virtue, first by abstaining from evil, being induced to
this by the negative precepts, and afterwards by doing good, to which we are induced by the
affirmative precepts. Wherefore the affirmative and negative precepts do not belong to different
virtues, but to different degrees of virtue; and consequently they are not, of necessity, opposed
to sins of different species. Moreover sin is not specified by that from which it turns away,
because in this respect it is a negation or privation, but by that to which it turns, in so
far as sin is an act. Consequently sins do not differ specifically according to the various
precepts of the Law.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection considers the material diversity of sins. It must be observed,
however, that although, properly speaking, negation is not in a species, yet it is allotted
to a species by reduction to the affirmation on which it is based.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 7]

Whether Sins Are Fittingly Divided into Sins of Thought, Word, and Deed?

Objection 1: It would seem that sins are unfittingly divided into sins of thought, word, and
deed. For Augustine (De Trin. xii, 12) describes three stages of sin, of which the first is
"when the carnal sense offers a bait," which is the sin of thought; the second stage is reached
"when one is satisfied with the mere pleasure of thought"; and the third stage, "when consent
is given to the deed." Now these three belong to the sin of thought. Therefore it is unfitting
to reckon sin of thought as one kind of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, Gregory (Moral. iv, 25) reckons four degrees of sin; the first of which is
"a fault hidden in the heart"; the second, "when it is done openly"; the third, "when it is
formed into a habit"; and the fourth, "when man goes so far as to presume on God's mercy or
to give himself up to despair": where no distinction is made between sins of deed and sins
of word, and two other degrees of sin are added. Therefore the first division was unfitting.

Obj. 3: Further, there can be no sin of word or deed unless there precede sin of thought. Therefore
these sins do not differ specifically. Therefore they should not be condivided with one another.

On the contrary, Jerome in commenting on Ezech. 43:23, says: "The human race is subject to
three kinds of sin, for when we sin, it is either by thought, or word, or deed."

I answer that, Things differ specifically in two ways: first, when each has the complete species;
thus a horse and an ox differ specifically: secondly, when the diversity of species is derived
from diversity of degree in generation or movement: thus the building is the complete generation
of a house, while the laying of the foundations, and the setting up of the walls are incomplete
species, as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. x, 4); and the same can apply to the generation
of animals. Accordingly sins are divided into these three, viz. sins of thought, word, and
deed, not as into various complete species: for the consummation of sin is in the deed, wherefore
sins of deed have the complete species; but the first beginning of sin is its foundation, as
it were, in the sin of thought; the second degree is the sin of word, in so far as man is ready
to break out into a declaration of his thought; while the third degree consists in the consummation
of the deed. Consequently these three differ in respect of the various degrees of sin. Nevertheless
it is evident that these three belong to the one complete species of sin, since they proceed
from the same motive. For the angry man, through desire of vengeance, is at first disturbed
in thought, then he breaks out into words of abuse, and lastly he goes on to wrongful deeds;
and the same applies to lust and to any other sin.

Reply Obj. 1: All sins of thought have the common note of secrecy, in respect of which they
form one degree, which is, however, divided into three stages, viz. of cogitation, pleasure,
and consent.

Reply Obj. 2: Sins of words and deed are both done openly, and for this reason Gregory (Moral.
iv, 25) reckons them under one head: whereas Jerome (in commenting on Ezech. 43:23) distinguishes
between them, because in sins of word there is nothing but manifestation which is intended
principally; while in sins of deed, it is the consummation of the inward thought which is principally
intended, and the outward manifestation is by way of sequel. Habit and despair are stages following
the complete species of sin, even as boyhood and youth follow the complete generation of a man.

Reply Obj. 3: Sin of thought and sin of word are not distinct from the sin of deed when they
are united together with it, but when each is found by itself: even as one part of a movement
is not distinct from the whole movement, when the movement is continuous, but only when there
is a break in the movement.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 8]

Whether Excess and Deficiency Diversify the Species of Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that excess and deficiency do not diversify the species of sins.
For excess and deficiency differ in respect of more and less. Now "more" and "less" do not
diversify a species. Therefore excess and deficiency do not diversify the species of sins.

Obj. 2: Further, just as sin, in matters of action, is due to straying from the rectitude of
reason, so falsehood, in speculative matters, is due to straying from the truth of the reality.
Now the species of falsehood is not diversified by saying more or less than the reality. Therefore
neither is the species of sin diversified by straying more or less from the rectitude of reason.

Obj. 3: Further, "one species cannot be made out of two," as Porphyry declares [*Isagog.; cf.
Arist. Metaph. i]. Now excess and deficiency are united in one sin; for some are at once illiberal
and wasteful--illiberality being a sin of deficiency, and prodigality, by excess. Therefore
excess and deficiency do not diversify the species of sins.

On the contrary, Contraries differ specifically, for "contrariety is a difference of form,"
as stated in Metaph. x, text. 13, 14. Now vices that differ according to excess and deficiency
are contrary to one another, as illiberality to wastefulness. Therefore they differ specifically.

I answer that, While there are two things in sin, viz. the act itself and its inordinateness,
in so far as sin is a departure from the order of reason and the Divine law, the species of
sin is gathered, not from its inordinateness, which is outside the sinner's intention, as stated
above (A. 1), but one the contrary, from the act itself as terminating in the object to which
the sinner's intention is directed. Consequently wherever we find a different motive inclining
the intention to sin, there will be a different species of sin. Now it is evident that the
motive for sinning, in sins by excess, is not the same as the motive for sinning, in sins of
deficiency; in fact, they are contrary to one another, just as the motive in the sin of intemperance
is love for bodily pleasures, while the motive in the sin of insensibility is hatred of the
same. Therefore these sins not only differ specifically, but are contrary to one another.

Reply Obj. 1: Although more and less do not cause diversity of species, yet they are sometimes
consequent to specific difference, in so far as they are the result of diversity of form; thus
we may say that fire is lighter than air. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. viii, 1) that
"those who held that there are no different species of friendship, by reason of its admitting
of degree, were led by insufficient proof." In this way to exceed reason or to fall short thereof
belongs to sins specifically different, in so far as they result from different motives.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not the sinner's intention to depart from reason; and so sins of excess
and deficiency do not become of one kind through departing from the one rectitude of reason.
On the other hand, sometimes he who utters a falsehood, intends to hide the truth, wherefore
in this respect, it matters not whether he tells more or less. If, however, departure from
the truth be not outside the intention, it is evident that then one is moved by different causes
to tell more or less; and in this respect there are different kinds of falsehood, as is evident
of the boaster, who exceeds in telling untruths for the sake of fame, and the cheat, who tells
less than the truth, in order to escape from paying his debts. This also explains how some
false opinions are contrary to one another.

Reply Obj. 3: One may be prodigal and illiberal with regard to different objects: for instance
one may be illiberal [*Cf. II-II, Q. 119, A. 1, ad 1] in taking what one ought not: and nothing
hinders contraries from being in the same subject, in different respects.

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 72, Art. 9]

Whether Sins Differ Specifically in Respect of Different Circumstances?

Objection 1: It would seem that vices and sins differ in respect of different circumstances.
Now individual defects are corruptions of individual circumstances. Therefore from the corruption
of each circumstance there results a corresponding species of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, sins are human acts. But human acts sometimes take their species from circumstances,
as stated above (Q. 18, A. 10). Therefore sins differ specifically according as different circumstances
are corrupted.

Obj. 3: Further, diverse species are assigned to gluttony, according to the words contained
in the following verse:

"Hastily, sumptuously, too much, greedily, daintily."

Now these pertain to various circumstances, for "hastily" means sooner than is right; "too
much," more than is right, and so on with the others. Therefore the species of sin is diversified
according to the various circumstances.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 7; iv, 1) that "every vice sins by doing
more than one ought, and when one ought not"; and in like manner as to the other circumstances.
Therefore the species of sins are not diversified in this respect.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 8), wherever there is a special motive for sinning, there
is a different species of sin, because the motive for sinning is the end and object of sin.
Now it happens sometimes that although different circumstances are corrupted, there is but
one motive: thus the illiberal man, for the same motive, takes when he ought not, where he
ought not, and more than he ought, and so on with the circumstances, since he does this through
an inordinate desire of hoarding money: and in such cases the corruption of different circumstances
does not diversify the species of sins, but belongs to one and the same species.

Sometimes, however, the corruption of different circumstances arises from different motives:
for instance that a man eat hastily, may be due to the fact that he cannot brook the delay
in taking food, on account of a rapid exhaustion of the digestive humors; and that he desire
too much food, may be due to a naturally strong digestion; that he desire choice meats, is
due to his desire for pleasure in taking food. Hence in such matters, the corruption of different
circumstances entails different species of sins.

Reply Obj. 1: Evil, as such, is a privation, and so it has different species in respect of
the thing which the subject is deprived, even as other privations. But sin does not take its
species from the privation or aversion, as stated above (A. 1), but from turning to the object
of the act.

Reply Obj. 2: A circumstance never transfers an act from one species to another, save when
there is another motive.

Reply Obj. 3: In the various species of gluttony there are various motives, as stated.

QUESTION 73

OF THE COMPARISON OF ONE SIN WITH ANOTHER (In Ten Articles)

We must now consider the comparison of one sin with another: under which head there are ten
points of inquiry:

(1) Whether all sins and vices are connected with one another?

(2) Whether all are equal?

(3) Whether the gravity of sin depends on its object?

(4) Whether it depends on the excellence of the virtue to which it is opposed?

(5) Whether carnal sins are more grievous than spiritual sins?

(6) Whether the gravity of sins depends on their causes?

(7) Whether it depends on their circumstances?

(8) Whether it depends on how much harm ensues?

(9) Whether on the position of the person sinned against?

(10) Whether sin is aggravated by reason of the excellence of the person sinning?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 1]

Whether All Sins Are Connected with One Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that all sins are connected. For it is written (James 2:10): "Whosoever
shall keep the whole Law, but offend in one point, is become guilty of all." Therefore whoever
commits one sin is guilty of all.

Obj. 2: Further, each sin banishes its opposite virtue. Now whoever lacks one virtue lacks
them all, as was shown above (Q. 65, A. 1). Therefore whoever commits one sin, is deprived
of all the virtues. Therefore whoever commits one sin, is guilty of all sins.

Obj. 3: Further, all virtues are connected, because they have a principle in common, as stated
above (Q. 65, AA. 1, 2). Now as the virtues have a common principle, so have sins, because,
as the love of God, which builds the city of God, is the beginning and root of all the virtues,
so self-love, which builds the city of Babylon, is the root of all sins, as Augustine declares
(De Civ. Dei xiv, 28). Therefore all vices and sins are also connected so that whoever has
one, has them all.

On the contrary, Some vices are contrary to one another, as the Philosopher states (Ethic.
ii, 8). But contraries cannot be together in the same subject. Therefore it is impossible for
all sins and vices to be connected with one another.

I answer that, The intention of the man who acts according to virtue in pursuance of his reason,
is different from the intention of the sinner in straying from the path of reason. For the
intention of every man acting according to virtue is to follow the rule of reason, wherefore
the intention of all the virtues is directed to the same end, so that all the virtues are connected
together in the right reason of things to be done, viz. prudence, as stated above (Q. 65, A.
1). But the intention of the sinner is not directed to the point of straying from the path
of reason; rather is it directed to tend to some appetible good whence it derives its species.
Now these goods, to which the sinner's intention is directed when departing from reason, are
of various kinds, having no mutual connection; in fact they are sometimes contrary to one another.
Since, therefore, vices and sins take their species from that to which they turn, it is evident
that, in respect of that which completes a sin's species, sins are not connected with one another.
For sin does not consist in passing from the many to the one, as is the case with virtues,
which are connected, but rather in forsaking the one for the many.

Reply Obj. 1: James is speaking of sin, not as regards the thing to which it turns and which
causes the distinction of sins, as stated above (Q. 72, A. 1), but as regards that from which
sin turns away, in as much as man, by sinning, departs from a commandment of the law. Now all
the commandments of the law are from one and the same, as he also says in the same passage,
so that the same God is despised in every sin; and in this sense he says that whoever "offends
in one point, is become guilty of all," for as much as, by committing one sin, he incurs the
debt of punishment through his contempt of God, which is the origin of all sins.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 71, A. 4), the opposite virtue is not banished by every act
of sin; because venial sin does not destroy virtue; while mortal sin destroys infused virtue,
by turning man away from God. Yet one act, even of mortal sin, does not destroy the habit of
acquired virtue; though if such acts be repeated so as to engender a contrary habit, the habit
of acquired virtue is destroyed, the destruction of which entails the loss of prudence, since
when man acts against any virtue whatever, he acts against prudence, without which no moral
virtue is possible, as stated above (Q. 58, A. 4; Q. 65, A. 1). Consequently all the moral
virtues are destroyed as to the perfect and formal being of virtue, which they have in so far
as they partake of prudence, yet there remain the inclinations to virtuous acts, which inclinations,
however, are not virtues. Nevertheless it does not follow that for this reason man contracts
all vices of sins--first, because several vices are opposed to one virtue, so that a virtue
can be destroyed by one of them, without the others being present; secondly, because sin is
directly opposed to virtue, as regards the virtue's inclination to act, as stated above (Q.
71, A. 1). Wherefore, as long as any virtuous inclinations remain, it cannot be said that man
has the opposite vices or sins.

Reply Obj. 3: The love of God is unitive, in as much as it draws man's affections from the
many to the one; so that the virtues, which flow from the love of God, are connected together.
But self-love disunites man's affections among different things, in so far as man loves himself,
by desiring for himself temporal goods, which are various and of many kinds: hence vices and
sins, which arise from self-love, are not connected together.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 2]

Whether All Sins Are Equal?

Objection 1: It would seem that all sins are equal. Because sin is to do what is unlawful.
Now to do what is unlawful is reproved in one and the same way in all things. Therefore sin
is reproved in one and the same way. Therefore one sin is not graver than another.

Obj. 2: Further, every sin is a transgression of the rule of reason, which is to human acts
what a linear rule is in corporeal things. Therefore to sin is the same as to pass over a line.
But passing over a line occurs equally and in the same way, even if one go a long way from
it or stay near it, since privations do not admit of more or less. Therefore all sins are equal.

Obj. 3: Further, sins are opposed to virtues. But all virtues are equal, as Cicero states (Paradox.
iii). Therefore all sins are equal.

On the contrary, Our Lord said to Pilate (John 19:11): "He that hath delivered me to thee,
hath the greater sin," and yet it is evident that Pilate was guilty of some sin. Therefore
one sin is greater than another.

I answer that, The opinion of the Stoics, which Cicero adopts in the book on Paradoxes (Paradox.
iii), was that all sins are equal: from which opinion arose the error of certain heretics,
who not only hold all sins to be equal, but also maintain that all the pains of hell are equal.
So far as can be gathered from the words of Cicero the Stoics arrived at their conclusion through
looking at sin on the side of the privation only, in so far, to wit, as it is a departure from
reason; wherefore considering simply that no privation admits of more or less, they held that
all sins are equal. Yet, if we consider the matter carefully, we shall see that there are two
kinds of privation. For there is a simple and pure privation, which consists, so to speak,
in being corrupted; thus death is privation of life, and darkness is privation of light. Such
like privations do not admit of more or less, because nothing remains of the opposite habit;
hence a man is not less dead on the first day after his death, or on the third or fourth days,
than after a year, when his corpse is already dissolved; and, in like manner, a house is no
darker if the light be covered with several shades, than if it were covered by a single shade
shutting out all the light. There is, however, another privation which is not simple, but retains
something of the opposite habit; it consists in becoming corrupted rather than in being corrupted,
like sickness which is a privation of the due commensuration of the humors, yet so that something
remains of that commensuration, else the animal would cease to live: and the same applies to
deformity and the like. Such privations admit of more or less on the part of what remains or
the contrary habit. For it matters much in sickness or deformity, whether one departs more
or less from the due commensuration of humors or members. The same applies to vices and sins:
because in them the privation of the due commensuration of reason is such as not to destroy
the order of reason altogether; else evil, if total, destroys itself, as stated in Ethic. iv,
5. For the substance of the act, or the affection of the agent could not remain, unless something
remained of the order of reason. Therefore it matters much to the gravity of a sin whether
one departs more or less from the rectitude of reason: and accordingly we must say that sins
are not all equal.

Reply Obj. 1: To commit sin is unlawful on account of some inordinateness therein: wherefore
those which contain a greater inordinateness are more unlawful, and consequently graver sins.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument looks upon sin as though it were a pure privation.

Reply Obj. 3: Virtues are proportionately equal in one and the same subject: yet one virtue
surpasses another in excellence according to its species; and again, one man is more virtuous
than another, in the same species of virtue, as stated above (Q. 66, AA. 1, 2). Moreover, even
if virtues were equal, it would not follow that vices are equal, since virtues are connected,
and vices or sins are not.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 3]

Whether the Gravity of Sins Varies According to Their Objects?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gravity of sins does not vary according to their objects.
Because the gravity of a sin pertains to its mode or quality: whereas the object is the matter
of the sin. Therefore the gravity of sins does not vary according to their various objects.

Obj. 2: Further, the gravity of a sin is the intensity of its malice. Now sin does not derive
its malice from its proper object to which it turns, and which is some appetible good, but
rather from that which it turns away from. Therefore the gravity of sins does not vary according
to their various objects.

Obj. 3: Further, sins that have different objects are of different kinds. But things of different
kinds cannot be compared with one another, as is proved in Phys. vii, text. 30, seqq. Therefore
one sin is not graver than another by reason of the difference of objects.

On the contrary, Sins take their species from their objects, as was shown above (Q. 72, A.
1). But some sins are graver than others in respect of their species, as murder is graver than
theft. Therefore the gravity of sins varies according to their objects.

I answer that, As is clear from what has been said (Q. 71, A. 5), the gravity of sins varies
in the same way as one sickness is graver than another: for just as the good of health consists
in a certain commensuration of the humors, in keeping with an animal's nature, so the good
of virtue consists in a certain commensuration of the human act in accord with the rule of
reason. Now it is evident that the higher the principle the disorder of which causes the disorder
in the humors, the graver is the sickness: thus a sickness which comes on the human body from
the heart, which is the principle of life, or from some neighboring part, is more dangerous.
Wherefore a sin must needs be so much the graver, as the disorder occurs in a principle which
is higher in the order of reason. Now in matters of action the reason directs all things in
view of the end: wherefore the higher the end which attaches to sins in human acts, the graver
the sin. Now the object of an act is its end, as stated above (Q. 72, A. 3, ad 2); and consequently
the difference of gravity in sins depends on their objects. Thus it is clear that external
things are directed to man as their end, while man is further directed to God as his end. Wherefore
a sin which is about the very substance of man, e.g. murder, is graver than a sin which is
about external things, e.g. theft; and graver still is a sin committed directly against God,
e.g. unbelief, blasphemy, and the like: and in each of these grades of sin, one sin will be
graver than another according as it is about a higher or lower principle. And forasmuch as
sins take their species from their objects, the difference of gravity which is derived from
the objects is first and foremost, as resulting from the species.

Reply Obj. 1: Although the object is the matter about which an act is concerned, yet it has
the character of an end, in so far as the intention of the agent is fixed on it, as stated
above (Q. 72, A. 3, ad 2). Now the form of a moral act depends on the end, as was shown above
(Q. 72, A. 6; Q. 18, A. 6).

Reply Obj. 2: From the very fact that man turns unduly to some mutable good, it follows that
he turns away from the immutable Good, which aversion completes the nature of evil. Hence the
various degrees of malice in sins must needs follow the diversity of those things to which
man turns.

Reply Obj. 3: All the objects of human acts are related to one another, wherefore all human
acts are somewhat of one kind, in so far as they are directed to the last end. Therefore nothing
prevents all sins from being compared with one another.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 4]

Whether the Gravity of Sins Depends on the Excellence of the Virtues to Which They Are Opposed?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gravity of sins does not vary according to the excellence
of the virtues to which they are opposed, so that, to wit, the graver sin is opposed to the
greater virtue. For, according to Prov. 15:5, "In abundant justice there is the greatest strength."
Now, as Our Lord says (Matt. 5:20, seqq.) abundant justice restrains anger, which is a less
grievous sin than murder, which less abundant justice restrains. Therefore the least grievous
sin is opposed to the greatest virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, it is stated in Ethic. ii, 3 that "virtue is about the difficult and the good":
whence it seems to follow that the greater virtue is about what is more difficult. But it is
a less grievous sin to fail in what is more difficult, than in what is less difficult. Therefore
the less grievous sin is opposed to the greater virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, charity is a greater virtue than faith or hope (1 Cor. 13:13). Now hatred
which is opposed to charity is a less grievous sin than unbelief or despair which are opposed
to faith and hope. Therefore the less grievous sin is opposed to the greater virtue.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. 8:10) that the "worst is opposed to the best."
Now in morals the best is the greatest virtue; and the worst is the most grievous sin. Therefore
the most grievous sin is opposed to the greatest virtue.

I answer that, A sin is opposed to a virtue in two ways: first, principally and directly; that
sin, to wit, which is about the same object: because contraries are about the same thing. In
this way, the more grievous sin must needs be opposed to the greater virtue: because, just
as the degrees of gravity in a sin depend on the object, so also does the greatness of a virtue,
since both sin and virtue take their species from the object, as shown above (Q. 60, A. 5;
Q. 72, A. 1). Wherefore the greatest sin must needs be directly opposed to the greatest virtue,
as being furthest removed from it in the same genus. Secondly, the opposition of virtue to
sin may be considered in respect of a certain extension of the virtue in checking sin. For
the greater a virtue is, the further it removes man from the contrary sin, so that it withdraws
man not only from that sin, but also from whatever leads to it. And thus it is evident that
the greater a virtue is, the more it withdraws man also from less grievous sins: even as the
more perfect health is, the more does it ward off even minor ailments. And in this way the
less grievous sin is opposed to the greater virtue, on the part of the latter's effect.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers the opposition which consists in restraining from sin;
for thus abundant justice checks even minor sins.

Reply Obj. 2: The greater virtue that is about a more difficult good is opposed directly to
the sin which is about a more difficult evil. For in each case there is a certain superiority,
in that the will is shown to be more intent on good or evil, through not being overcome by
the difficulty.

Reply Obj. 3: Charity is not any kind of love, but the love of God: hence not any kind of hatred
is opposed to it directly, but the hatred of God, which is the most grievous of all sins.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 5]

Whether Carnal Sins Are of Less Guilt Than Spiritual Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that carnal sins are not of less guilt than spiritual sins. Because
adultery is a more grievous sin than theft: for it is written (Prov. 6:30, 32): "The fault
is not so great when a man has stolen . . . but he that is an adulterer, for the folly of his
heart shall destroy his own soul." Now theft belongs to covetousness, which is a spiritual
sin; while adultery pertains to lust, which is a carnal sin. Therefore carnal sins are of greater
guilt than spiritual sins.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says in his commentary on Leviticus [*The quotation is from De Civ.
Dei ii, 4 and iv, 31.] that "the devil rejoices chiefly in lust and idolatry." But he rejoices
more in the greater sin. Therefore, since lust is a carnal sin, it seems that the carnal sins
are of most guilt.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher proves (Ethic. vii, 6) that "it is more shameful to be incontinent
in lust than in anger." But anger is a spiritual sin, according to Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 17);
while lust pertains to carnal sins. Therefore carnal sin is more grievous than spiritual sin.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Moral. xxxiii, 11) that carnal sins are of less guilt, but of
more shame than spiritual sins.

I answer that, Spiritual sins are of greater guilt than carnal sins: yet this does not mean
that each spiritual sin is of greater guilt than each carnal sin; but that, considering the
sole difference between spiritual and carnal, spiritual sins are more grievous than carnal
sins, other things being equal. Three reasons may be assigned for this. The first is on the
part of the subject: because spiritual sins belong to the spirit, to which it is proper to
turn to God, and to turn away from Him; whereas carnal sins are consummated in the carnal pleasure
of the appetite, to which it chiefly belongs to turn to goods of the body; so that carnal sin,
as such, denotes more a turning to something, and for that reason, implies a closer cleaving;
whereas spiritual sin denotes more a turning from something, whence the notion of guilt arises;
and for this reason it involves greater guilt. A second reason may be taken on the part of
the person against whom sin is committed: because carnal sin, as such, is against the sinner's
own body, which he ought to love less, in the order of charity, than God and his neighbor,
against whom he commits spiritual sins, and consequently spiritual sins, as such, are of greater
guilt. A third reason may be taken from the motive, since the stronger the impulse to sin,
the less grievous the sin, as we shall state further on (A. 6). Now carnal sins have a stronger
impulse, viz. our innate concupiscence of the flesh. Therefore spiritual sins, as such, are
of greater guilt.

Reply Obj. 1: Adultery belongs not only to the sin of lust, but also to the sin of injustice,
and in this respect may be brought under the head of covetousness, as a gloss observes on Eph.
5:5. "No fornicator, or unclean, or covetous person," etc.; so that adultery is so much more
grievous than theft, as a man loves his wife more than his chattels.

Reply Obj. 2: The devil is said to rejoice chiefly in the sin of lust, because it is of the
greatest adhesion, and man can with difficulty be withdrawn from it. "For the desire of pleasure
is insatiable," as the Philosopher states (Ethic. iii, 12).

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher himself says (Ethic. vii, 6), the reason why it is more shameful
to be incontinent in lust than in anger, is that lust partakes less of reason; and in the same
sense he says (Ethic. iii, 10) that "sins of intemperance are most worthy of reproach, because
they are about those pleasures which are common to us and irrational animals": hence, by these
sins man is, so to speak, brutalized; for which same reason Gregory says (Moral. xxxi, 17)
that they are more shameful.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 6]

Whether the Gravity of a Sin Depends on Its Cause?

Objection 1: It would seem that the gravity of a sin does not depend on its cause. Because
the greater a sin's cause, the more forcibly it moves to sin, and so the more difficult is
it to resist. But sin is lessened by the fact that it is difficult to resist; for it denotes
weakness in the sinner, if he cannot easily resist sin; and a sin that is due to weakness is
deemed less grievous. Therefore sin does not derive its gravity from its cause.

Obj. Now the greater the concupiscence by which man is overcome, the less grievous his sin.
Therefore the gravity of a sin is diminished by the greatness of its cause.

Obj. 3: Further, as rectitude of the reason is the cause of a virtuous act, so defect in the
reason seems to be the cause of sin. Now the greater the defect in the reason, the less grievous
the sin: so much so that he who lacks the use of reason, is altogether excused from sin, and
he who sins through ignorance, sins less grievously. Therefore the gravity of a sin is not
increased by the greatness of its cause.

On the contrary, If the cause be increased, the effect is increased. Therefore the greater
the cause of sin, the more grievous the sin.

I answer that, In the genus of sin, as in every other genus, two causes may be observed.

The other causes of sin are extrinsic and remote, as it were, being those whereby the will
is inclined to sin. Among these causes we must make a distinction; for some of them induce
the will to sin in accord with the very nature of the will: such is the end, which is the proper
object of the will; and by a such like cause sin is made more grievous, because a man sins
more grievously if his will is induced to sin by the intention of a more evil end. Other causes
incline the will to sin, against the nature and order of the will, whose natural inclination
is to be moved freely of itself in accord with the judgment of reason. Wherefore those causes
which weaken the judgment of reason (e.g. ignorance), or which weaken the free movement of
the will, (e.g. weakness, violence, fear, or the like), diminish the gravity of sin, even as
they diminish its voluntariness; and so much so, that if the act be altogether involuntary,
it is no longer sinful.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers the extrinsic moving cause, which diminishes voluntariness.
The increase of such a cause diminishes the sin, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: If concupiscence be understood to include the movement of the will, then, where
there is greater concupiscence, there is a greater sin. But if by concupiscence we understand
a passion, which is a movement of the concupiscible power, then a greater concupiscence, forestalling
the judgment of reason and the movement of the will, diminishes the sin, because the man who
sins, being stimulated by a greater concupiscence, falls through a more grievous temptation,
wherefore he is less to be blamed. On the other hand, if concupiscence be taken in this sense
follows the judgment of reason, and the movement of the will, then the greater concupiscence,
the graver the sin: because sometimes the movement of concupiscence is redoubled by the will
tending unrestrainedly to its object.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers the cause which renders the act involuntary, and such
a cause diminishes the gravity of sin, as stated.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 7]

Whether a Circumstance Aggravates a Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that a circumstance does not aggravate a sin. Because sin takes
its gravity from its species. Now a circumstance does not specify a sin, for it is an accident
thereof. Therefore the gravity of a sin is not taken from a circumstance.

Obj. 2: Further, a circumstance is either evil or not: if it is evil, it causes, of itself,
a species of evil; and if it is not evil, it cannot make a thing worse. Therefore a circumstance
nowise aggravates a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the malice of a sin is derived from its turning away (from God). But circumstances
affect sin on the part of the object to which it turns. Therefore they do not add to the sin's
malice.

On the contrary, Ignorance of a circumstance diminishes sin: for he who sins through ignorance
of a circumstance, deserves to be forgiven (Ethic. iii, 1). Now this would not be the case
unless a circumstance aggravated a sin. Therefore a circumstance makes a sin more grievous.

I answer that, As the Philosopher says in speaking of habits of virtue (Ethic. ii, 1, 2), "it
is natural for a thing to be increased by that which causes it." Now it is evident that a sin
is caused by a defect in some circumstance: because the fact that a man departs from the order
of reason is due to his not observing the due circumstances in his action. Wherefore it is
evident that it is natural for a sin to be aggravated by reason of its circumstances. This
happens in three ways. First, in so far as a circumstance draws a sin from one kind to another:
thus fornication is the intercourse of a man with one who is not his wife: but if to this be
added the circumstance that the latter is the wife of another, the sin is drawn to another
kind of sin, viz. injustice, in so far as he usurps another's property; and in this respect
adultery is a more grievous sin than fornication. Secondly, a circumstance aggravates a sin,
not by drawing it into another genus, but only by multiplying the ratio of sin: thus if a wasteful
man gives both when he ought not, and to whom he ought not to give, he commits the same kind
of sin in more ways than if he were to merely to give to whom he ought not, and for that very
reason his sin is more grievous; even as that sickness is the graver which affects more parts
of the body. Hence Cicero says (Paradox. iii) that "in taking his father's life a man commits
many sins; for he outrages one who begot him, who fed him, who educated him, to whom he owes
his lands, his house, his position in the republic." Thirdly, a circumstance aggravates a sin
by adding to the deformity which the sin derives from another circumstance: thus, taking another's
property constitutes the sin of theft; but if to this be added the circumstance that much is
taken of another's property, the sin will be more grievous; although in itself, to take more
or less has not the character of a good or of an evil act.

Reply Obj. 1: Some circumstances do specify a moral act, as stated above (Q. 18, A. 10). Nevertheless
a circumstance which does not give the species, may aggravate a sin; because, even as the goodness
of a thing is weighed, not only in reference to its species, but also in reference to an accident,
so the malice of an act is measured, not only according to the species of that act, but also
according to a circumstance.

Reply Obj. 2: A circumstance may aggravate a sin either way. For if it is evil, it does not
follow that it constitutes the sin's species; because it may multiply the ratio of evil within
the same species, as stated above. And if it be not evil, it may aggravate a sin in relation
to the malice of another circumstance.

Reply Obj. 3: Reason should direct the action not only as regards the object, but also as regards
every circumstance. Therefore one may turn aside from the rule of reason through corruption
of any single circumstance; for instance, by doing something when one ought not or where one
ought not; and to depart thus from the rule of reason suffices to make the act evil. This turning
aside from the rule of reason results from man's turning away from God, to Whom man ought to
be united by right reason.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 8]

Whether Sin Is Aggravated by Reason of Its Causing More Harm?

Objection 1: It would seem that a sin is not aggravated by reason of its causing more harm.
Because the harm done is an issue consequent to the sinful act. But the issue of an act does
not add to its goodness or malice, as stated above (Q. 20, A. 5). Therefore a sin is not aggravated
on account of its causing more harm.

Obj. 2: Further, harm is inflicted by sins against our neighbor. Because no one wishes to harm
himself: and no one can harm God, according to Job 35:6, 8: "If thy iniquities be multiplied,
what shalt thou do against Him? . . . Thy wickedness may hurt a man that is like thee." If,
therefore, sins were aggravated through causing more harm, it would follow that sins against
our neighbor are more grievous than sins against God or oneself.

Obj. 3: Further, greater harm is inflicted on a man by depriving him of the life of grace,
than by taking away his natural life; because the life of grace is better than the life of
nature, so far that man ought to despise his natural life lest he lose the life of grace. Now,
speaking absolutely, a man who leads a woman to commit fornication deprives her of the life
of grace by leading her into mortal sin. If therefore a sin were more grievous on account of
its causing a greater harm, it would follow that fornication, absolutely speaking, is a more
grievous sin than murder, which is evidently untrue. Therefore a sin is not more grievous on
account of its causing a greater harm.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. iii, 14): "Since vice is contrary to nature,
a vice is the more grievous according as it diminishes the integrity of nature." Now the diminution
of the integrity of nature is a harm. Therefore a sin is graver according as it does more harm.

I answer that, Harm may bear a threefold relation to sin. Because sometimes the harm resulting
from a sin is foreseen and intended, as when a man does something with a mind to harm another,
e.g. a murderer or a thief. In this case the quantity of harm aggravates the sin directly,
because then the harm is the direct object of the sin. Sometimes the harm is foreseen, but
not intended; for instance, when a man takes a short cut through a field, the result being
that he knowingly injures the growing crops, although his intention is not to do this harm,
but to commit fornication. In this case again the quantity of the harm done aggravates the
sin; indirectly, however, in so far, to wit, as it is owing to his will being strongly inclined
to sin, that a man does not forbear from doing, to himself or to another, a harm which he would
not wish simply. Sometimes, however, the harm is neither foreseen nor intended: and then if
this harm is connected with the sin accidentally, it does not aggravate the sin directly; but,
on account of his neglecting to consider the harm that might ensue, a man is deemed punishable
for the evil results of his action if it be unlawful. If, on the other hand, the harm follow
directly from the sinful act, although it be neither foreseen nor intended, it aggravates the
sin directly, because whatever is directly consequent to a sin, belongs, in a manner, to the
very species of that sin: for instance, if a man is a notorious fornicator, the result is that
many are scandalized; and although such was not his intention, nor was it perhaps foreseen
by him, yet it aggravates his sin directly.

But this does not seem to apply to penal harm, which the sinner himself incurs. Such like harm,
if accidentally connected with the sinful act, and if neither foreseen nor intended, does not
aggravate a sin, nor does it correspond with the gravity of the sin: for instance, if a man
in running to slay, slips and hurts his foot. If, on the other hand, this harm is directly
consequent to the sinful act, although perhaps it be neither foreseen nor intended, then greater
harm does not make greater sin, but, on the contrary, a graver sin calls for the infliction
of a greater harm. Thus, an unbeliever who has heard nothing about the pains of hell, would
suffer greater pain in hell for a sin of murder than for a sin of theft: but his sin is not
aggravated on account of his neither intending nor foreseeing this, as it would be in the case
of a believer, who, seemingly, sins more grievously in the very fact that he despises a greater
punishment, that he may satisfy his desire to sin; but the gravity of this harm is caused by
the sole gravity of sin.

Reply Obj. 1: As we have already stated (Q. 20, A. 5), in treating of the goodness and malice
of external actions, the result of an action if foreseen and intended adds to the goodness
and malice of an act.

Reply Obj. 2: Although the harm done aggravates a sin, it does not follow that this alone renders
a sin more grievous: in fact, it is inordinateness which of itself aggravates a sin. Wherefore
the harm itself that ensues aggravates a sin, in so far only as it renders the act more inordinate.
Hence it does not follow, supposing harm to be inflicted chiefly by sins against our neighbor,
that such sins are the most grievous, since a much greater inordinateness is to be found in
sins which man commits against God, and in some which he commits against himself. Moreover
we might say that although no man can do God any harm in His substance, yet he can endeavor
to do so in things concerning Him, e.g. by destroying faith, by outraging holy things, which
are most grievous sins. Again, a man sometimes knowingly and freely inflicts harm on himself,
as in the case of suicide, though this be referred finally to some apparent good, for example,
delivery from some anxiety.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument does not prove, for two reasons: first, because the murderer intends
directly to do harm to his neighbors; whereas the fornicator who solicits the woman intends
not harm but pleasure; secondly, because murder is the direct and sufficient cause of bodily
death; whereas no man can of himself be the sufficient cause of another's spiritual death,
because no man dies spiritually except by sinning of his own will.

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 9]

Whether a Sin Is Aggravated by Reason of the Condition of the Person Against Whom It Is Committed?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin is not aggravated by reason of the condition of the person
against whom it is committed. For if this were the case a sin would be aggravated chiefly by
being committed against a just and holy man. But this does not aggravate a sin: because a virtuous
man who bears a wrong with equanimity is less harmed by the wrong done him, than others, who,
through being scandalized, are also hurt inwardly. Therefore the condition of the person against
whom a sin is committed does not aggravate the sin.

Obj. 2: Further, if the condition of the person aggravated the sin, this would be still more
the case if the person be near of kin, because, as Cicero says (Paradox. iii): "The man who
kills his slave sins once: he that takes his father's life sins many times." But the kinship
of a person sinned against does not apparently aggravate a sin, because every man is most akin
to himself; and yet it is less grievous to harm oneself than another, e.g. to kill one's own,
than another's horse, as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. v, 11). Therefore kinship of the
person sinned against does not aggravate the sin.

Obj. Therefore, in like manner, on the part of the person sinned against, the sin is made more
grievous by reason of his position and knowledge. But, apparently, it is not a more grievous
sin to inflict an injury on a rich and powerful person than on a poor man, since "there is
no respect of persons with God" (Col. 3:25), according to Whose judgment the gravity of a sin
is measured. Therefore the condition of the person sinned against does not aggravate the sin.

On the contrary, Holy Writ censures especially those sins that are committed against the servants
of God. Thus it is written (3 Kings 19:14): "They have destroyed Thy altars, they have slain
Thy prophets with the sword." Moreover much blame is attached to the sin committed by a man
against those who are akin to him, according to Micah 7:6: "the son dishonoreth the father,
and the daughter riseth up against her mother." Furthermore sins committed against persons
of rank are expressly condemned: thus it is written (Job 34:18): "Who saith to the king: 'Thou
art an apostate'; who calleth rulers ungodly." Therefore the condition of the person sinned
against aggravates the sin.

I answer that, The person sinned against is, in a manner, the object of the sin. Now it has
been stated above (A. 3) that the primary gravity of a sin is derived from its object; so that
a sin is deemed to be so much the more grave, as its object is a more principal end. But the
principal ends of human acts are God, man himself, and his neighbor: for whatever we do, it
is on account of one of these that we do it; although one of them is subordinate to the other.
Therefore the greater or lesser gravity of a sin, in respect of the person sinned against,
may be considered on the part of these three.

First, on the part of God, to Whom man is the more closely united, as he is more virtuous or
more sacred to God: so that an injury inflicted on such a person redounds on to God according
to Zech. 2:8: "He that toucheth you, toucheth the apple of My eye." Wherefore a sin is the
more grievous, according as it is committed against a person more closely united to God by
reason of personal sanctity, or official station. On the part of man himself, it is evident
that he sins all the more grievously, according as the person against whom he sins, is more
united to him, either through natural affinity or kindness received or any other bond; because
he seems to sin against himself rather than the other, and, for this very reason, sins all
the more grievously, according to Ecclus. 14:5: "He that is evil to himself, to whom will he
be good?" On the part of his neighbor, a man sins the more grievously, according as his sin
affects more persons: so that a sin committed against a public personage, e.g. a sovereign
prince who stands in the place of the whole people, is more grievous than a sin committed against
a private person; hence it is expressly prohibited (Ex. 22:28): "The prince of thy people thou
shalt not curse." In like manner it would seem that an injury done to a person of prominence,
is all the more grave, on account of the scandal and the disturbance it would cause among many
people.

Reply Obj. 1: He who inflicts an injury on a virtuous person, so far as he is concerned, disturbs
him internally and externally; but that the latter is not disturbed internally is due to his
goodness, which does not extenuate the sin of the injurer.

Reply Obj. 2: The injury which a man inflicts on himself in those things which are subject
to the dominion of his will, for instance his possessions, is less sinful than if it were inflicted
on another, because he does it of his own will; but in those things that are not subject to
the dominion of his will, such as natural and spiritual goods, it is a graver sin to inflict
an injury on oneself: for it is more grievous for a man to kill himself than another. Since,
however, things belonging to our neighbor are not subject to the dominion of our will, the
argument fails to prove, in respect of injuries done to such like things, that it is less grievous
to sin in their regard, unless indeed our neighbor be willing, or give his approval.

Reply Obj. 3: There is no respect for persons if God punishes more severely those who sin against
a person of higher rank; for this is done because such an injury redounds to the harm of many.

TENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 73, Art. 10]

Whether the Excellence of the Person Sinning Aggravates the Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the excellence of the person sinning does not aggravate the
sin. For man becomes great chiefly by cleaving to God, according to Ecclus. 25:13: "How great
is he that findeth wisdom and knowledge! but there is none above him that feareth the Lord."
Now the more a man cleaves to God, the less is a sin imputed to him: for it is written (2 Paral.
Therefore a sin is not aggravated by the excellence of the person sinning.

Obj. 2: Further, "there is no respect of persons with God" (Rom. 2:11). Therefore He does not
punish one man more than another, for one and the same sin. Therefore a sin is not aggravated
by the excellence of the person sinning.

Obj. 3: Further, no one should reap disadvantage from good. But he would, if his action were
the more blameworthy on account of his goodness. Therefore a sin is not aggravated by reason
of the excellence of the person sinning.

On the contrary, Isidore says (De Summo Bono ii, 18): "A sin is deemed so much the more grievous
as the sinner is held to be a more excellent person."

I answer that, Sin is twofold. There is a sin which takes us unawares on account of the weakness
of human nature: and such like sins are less imputable to one who is more virtuous, because
he is less negligent in checking those sins, which nevertheless human weakness does not allow
us to escape altogether. But there are other sins which proceed from deliberation: and these
sins are all the more imputed to man according as he is more excellent. Four reasons may be
assigned for this. Secondly, on account of ingratitude, because every good in which a man excels,
is a gift of God, to Whom man is ungrateful when he sins: and in this respect any excellence,
even in temporal goods, aggravates a sin, according to Wis. 6:7: "The mighty shall be mightily
tormented." Thirdly, on account of the sinful act being specially inconsistent with the excellence
of the person sinning: for instance, if a prince were to violate justice, whereas he is set
up as the guardian of justice, or if a priest were to be a fornicator, whereas he has taken
the vow of chastity. Fourthly, on account of the example or scandal; because, as Gregory says
(Pastor. i, 2): "Sin becomes much more scandalous, when the sinner is honored for his position":
and the sins of the great are much more notorious and men are wont to bear them with more indignation.

Reply Obj. 1: The passage quoted alludes to those things which are done negligently when we
are taken unawares through human weakness.

Reply Obj. 2: God does not respect persons in punishing the great more severely, because their
excellence conduces to the gravity of their sin, as stated.

Reply Obj. 3: The man who excels in anything reaps disadvantage, not from the good which he
has, but from his abuse thereof.

QUESTION 74

OF THE SUBJECT OF SIN (In Ten Articles)

We must now consider the subject of vice or sin: under which head there are ten points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the will can be the subject of sin?

(2) Whether the will alone is the subject of sin?

(3) Whether the sensuality can be the subject of sin?

(4) Whether it can be the subject of mortal sin?

(5) Whether the reason can be the subject of sin?

(6) Whether morose delectation or non-morose delectation be subjected in the higher reason?

(7) Whether the sin of consent in the act of sin is subjected in the higher reason?

(8) Whether the lower reason can be the subject of mortal sin?

(9) Whether the higher reason can be the subject of venial sin?

(10) Whether there can be in the higher reason a venial sin directed to its proper object?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 1]

Whether the Will Is a Subject of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the will cannot be a subject of sin. For Dionysius says (Div.
Nom. iv) that "evil is outside the will and the intention." But sin has the character of evil.
Therefore sin cannot be in the will.

Obj. 2: Further, the will is directed either to the good or to what seems good. Now from the
fact that will wishes the good, it does not sin: and that it wishes what seems good but is
not truly good, points to a defect in the apprehensive power rather than in the will. Therefore
sin is nowise in the will.

Obj. 3: Further, the same thing cannot be both subject and efficient cause of sin: because
"the efficient and the material cause do not coincide" (Phys. 2, text. 70). Now the will is
the efficient cause of sin: because the first cause of sinning is the will, as Augustine states
(De Duabus Anim. x, 10, 11). Therefore it is not the subject of sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Retract. i, 9) that "it is by the will that we sin, and live
righteously."

I answer that, Sin is an act, as stated above (Q. 71, AA. 1, 6). Now some acts pass into external
matter, e.g. to cut and to burn: and such acts have for their matter and subject, the thing
into which the action passes: thus the Philosopher states (Phys. iii, text. 18) that "movement
is the act of the thing moved, caused by a mover." On the other hand, there are acts which
do not pass into external matter, but remain in the agent, e.g. to desire and to know: and
such are all moral acts, whether virtuous or sinful. Consequently the proper subject of sin
must needs be the power which is the principle of the act. Now since it is proper to moral
acts that they are voluntary, as stated above (Q. 1, A. 1; Q. 18, A. 6), it follows that the
will, which is the principle of voluntary acts, both of good acts, and of evil acts or sins,
is the principle of sins. Therefore it follows that sin is in the will as its subject.

Reply Obj. 1: Evil is said to be outside the will, because the will does not tend to it under
the aspect of evil. But since some evil is an apparent good, the will sometimes desires an
evil, and in this sense is in the will.

Reply Obj. 2: If the defect in the apprehensive power were nowise subject to the will, there
would be no sin, either in the will, or in the apprehensive power, as in the case of those
whose ignorance is invincible. It remains therefore that when there is in the apprehensive
power a defect that is subject to the will, this defect also is deemed a sin.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument applies to those efficient causes whose actions pass into external
matter, and which do not move themselves, but move other things; the contrary of which is to
be observed in the will; hence the argument does not prove.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 2]

Whether the Will Alone Is the Subject of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the will alone is the subject of sin. For Augustine says (De
Duabus Anim. x, 10) that "no one sins except by the will." Now the subject of sin is the power
by which we sin. Therefore the will alone is the subject of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, sin is an evil contrary to reason. Now good and evil pertaining to reason
are the object of the will alone. Therefore the will alone is the subject of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, every sin is a voluntary act, because, as Augustine states (De Lib. Arb. iii,
18) [*Cf. De Vera Relig. xiv.], "so true is it that every sin is voluntary, that unless it
be voluntary, it is no sin at all." Now the acts of the other powers are not voluntary, except
in so far as those powers are moved by the will; nor does this suffice for them to be the subject
of sin, because then even the external members of the body, which are moved by the will, would
be a subject of sin; which is clearly untrue. Therefore the will alone is the subject of sin.

On the contrary, Sin is contrary to virtue: and contraries are about one same thing. But the
other powers of the soul, besides the will, are the subject of virtues, as stated above (Q.
56). Therefore the will is not the only subject of sin.

I answer that, As was shown above (A. 1), whatever is the a principle of a voluntary act is
a subject of sin. Now voluntary acts are not only those which are elicited by the will, but
also those which are commanded by the will, as we stated above (Q. 6, A. 4) in treating of
voluntariness. Therefore not only the will can be a subject of sin, but also all those powers
which can be moved to their acts, or restrained from their acts, by the will; and these same
powers are the subjects of good and evil moral habits, because act and habit belong to the
same subject.

Reply Obj. 1: We do not sin except by the will as first mover; but we sin by the other powers
as moved by the will.

Reply Obj. 2: Good and evil pertain to the will as its proper objects; but the other powers
have certain determinate goods and evils, by reason of which they can be the subject of virtue,
vice, and sin, in so far as they partake of will and reason.

Reply Obj. 3: The members of the body are not principles but merely organs of action: wherefore
they are compared to the soul which moves them, as a slave who is moved but moves no other.
On the other hand, the internal appetitive powers are compared to reason as free agents, because
they both act and are acted upon, as is made clear in Polit.i, 3. Moreover, the acts of the
external members are actions that pass into external matter, as may be seen in the blow that
is inflicted in the sin of murder. Consequently there is no comparison.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 3]

Whether There Can Be Sin in the Sensuality?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be sin in the sensuality. For sin is proper to
man who is praised or blamed for his actions. Now sensuality is common to us and irrational
animals. Therefore sin cannot be in the sensuality.

Obj. 2: Further, "no man sins in what he cannot avoid," as Augustine states (De Lib. Arb. iii,
18). But man cannot prevent the movement of the sensuality from being inordinate, since "the
sensuality ever remains corrupt, so long as we abide in this mortal life; wherefore it is signified
by the serpent," as Augustine declares (De Trin. xii, 12, 13). Therefore the inordinate movement
of the sensuality is not a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, that which man himself does not do is not imputed to him as a sin. Now "that
alone do we seem to do ourselves, which we do with the deliberation of reason," as the Philosopher
says (Ethic. ix, 8). Therefore the movement of the sensuality, which is without the deliberation
of reason, is not imputed to a man as a sin.

On the contrary, It is written (Rom. 7:19): "The good which I will I do not; but the evil which
I will not, that I do": which words Augustine explains (Contra Julian. iii, 26; De Verb. Apost.
xii, 2, 3), as referring to the evil of concupiscence, which is clearly a movement of the sensuality.
Therefore there can be sin in the sensuality.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 2, 3), sin may be found in any power whose act can be voluntary
and inordinate, wherein consists the nature of sin. Now it is evident that the act of the sensuality,
or sensitive appetite, is naturally inclined to be moved by the will. Wherefore it follows
that sin can be in the sensuality.

Reply Obj. 1: Although some of the powers of the sensitive part are common to us and irrational
animals, nevertheless, in us, they have a certain excellence through being united to the reason;
thus we surpass other animals in the sensitive part for as much as we have the powers of cogitation
and reminiscence, as stated in the First Part (Q. 78, A. 4). In the same way our sensitive
appetite surpasses that of other animals by reason of a certain excellence consisting in its
natural aptitude to obey the reason; and in this respect it can be the principle of a voluntary
action, and, consequently, the subject of sin.

Reply Obj. 2: The continual corruption of the sensuality is to be understood as referring to
the fomes, which is never completely destroyed in this life, since, though the stain of original
sin passes, its effect remains. However, this corruption of the fomes does not hinder man from
using his rational will to check individual inordinate movements, if he be presentient of them,
for instance by turning his thoughts to other things. Yet while he is turning his thoughts
to something else, an inordinate movement may arise about this also: thus when a man, in order
to avoid the movements of concupiscence, turns his thoughts away from carnal pleasures, to
the considerations of science, sometimes an unpremeditated movement of vainglory will arise.
Consequently, a man cannot avoid all such movements, on account of the aforesaid corruption:
but it is enough, for the conditions of a voluntary sin, that he be able to avoid each single one.

Reply Obj. 3: Man does not do perfectly himself what he does without the deliberation of reason,
since the principal part of man does nothing therein: wherefore such is not perfectly a human
act; and consequently it cannot be a perfect act of virtue or of sin, but is something imperfect
of that kind. Therefore such movement of the sensuality as forestalls the reason, is a venial
sin, which is something imperfect in the genus of sin.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 4]

Whether Mortal Sin Can Be in the Sensuality?

Objection 1: It would seem that mortal sin can be in the sensuality. Because an act is discerned
by its object. Now it is possible to commit a mortal sin about the objects of the sensuality,
e.g. about carnal pleasures. Therefore the act of the sensuality can be a mortal sin, so that
mortal sin can be found in the sensuality.

Obj. 2: Further, mortal sin is opposed to virtue. But virtue can be in the sensuality; for
temperance and fortitude are virtues of the irrational parts, as the Philosopher states (Ethic.
iii, 10). Therefore, since it is natural to contraries to be about the same subject, sensuality
can be the subject of mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, venial sin is a disposition to mortal sin. Now disposition and habit are in
the same subject. Since therefore venial sin may be in the sensuality, as stated above (A.
3, ad 3), mortal sin can be there also.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Retract. i, 23): "The inordinate movement of concupiscence,
which is the sin of the sensuality, can even be in those who are in a state of grace," in whom,
however, mortal sin is not to be found. Therefore the inordinate movement of the sensuality
is not a mortal sin.

I answer that, Just as a disorder which destroys the principle of the body's life causes the
body's death, so too a disorder which destroys the principle of spiritual life, viz. the last
end, causes spiritual death, which is mortal sin, as stated above (Q. 72, A. 5). Now it belongs
to the reason alone, and not to the sensuality, to order anything to the end: and disorder
in respect of the end can only belong to the power whose function it is to order others to
the end. Wherefore mortal sin cannot be in the sensuality, but only in the reason.

Reply Obj. 1: The act of the sensuality can concur towards a mortal sin: yet the fact of its
being a mortal sin is due, not to its being an act of the sensuality, but to its being an act
of reason, to whom the ordering to the end belongs. Consequently mortal sin is imputed, not
to the sensuality, but to reason.

Reply Obj. 2: An act of virtue is perfected not only in that it is an act of the sensuality,
but still more in the fact of its being an act of reason and will, whose function it is to
choose: for the act of moral virtue is not without the exercise of choice: wherefore the act
of moral virtue, which perfects the appetitive power, is always accompanied by an act of prudence,
which perfects the rational power; and the same applies to mortal sin, as stated (ad 1).

Reply Obj. 3: A disposition may be related in three ways to that to which it disposes: for
sometimes it is the same thing and is in the same subject; thus inchoate science is a disposition
to perfect science: sometimes it is in the same subject, but is not the same thing; thus heat
is a disposition to the form of fire: sometimes it is neither the same thing, nor in the same
subject, as in those things which are subordinate to one another in such a way that we can
arrive at one through the other, e.g. goodness of the imagination is a disposition to science
which is in the intellect. In this way the venial sin that is in the sensuality, may be a disposition
to mortal sin, which is in the reason.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 5]

Whether Sin Can Be in the Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin cannot be in the reason. For the sin of any power is a
defect thereof. But the fault of the reason is not a sin, on the contrary, it excuses sin:
for a man is excused from sin on account of ignorance. Therefore sin cannot be in the reason.

Obj. 2: Further, the primary object of sin is the will, as stated above (A. 1). Now reason
precedes the will, since it directs it. Therefore sin cannot be in the reason.

Obj. 3: Further, there can be no sin except about things which are under our control. Now perfection
and defect of reason are not among those things which are under our control: since by nature
some are mentally deficient, and some shrewd-minded. Therefore no sin is in the reason.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. xii, 12) that sin is in the lower and in the higher
reason.

I answer that, The sin of any power is an act of that power, as we have clearly shown (AA.
1, 2, 3). Now reason has a twofold act: one is its proper act in respect of its proper object,
and this is the act of knowing the truth; the other is the act of reason as directing the other
powers. Now in both of these ways there may be sin in the reason. First, in so far as it errs
in the knowledge of truth, which error is imputed to the reason as a sin, when it is in ignorance
or error about what it is able and ought to know: secondly, when it either commands the inordinate
movements of the lower powers, or deliberately fails to check them.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers the defect in the proper act of the reason in respect
of its proper object, and with regard to the case when it is a defect of knowledge about something
which one is unable to know: for then this defect of reason is not a sin, and excuses from
sin, as is evident with regard to the actions of madmen. If, however, the defect of reason
be about something which a man is able and ought to know, he is not altogether excused from
sin, and the defect is imputed to him as a sin. The defect which belongs only to the act of
directing the other powers, is always imputed to reason as a sin, because it can always obviate
this defect by means of its proper act.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 17, A. 1), when we were treating of the acts of the will
and reason, the will moves and precedes the reason, in one way, and the reason moves and precedes
the will in another: so that both the movement of the will can be called rational, and the
act of the reason, voluntary. Accordingly sin is found in the reason, either through being
a voluntary defect of the reason, or through the reason being the principle of the will's act.

The Reply to the Third Objection is evident from what has been said (ad 1).

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 6]

Whether the Sin of Morose Delectation Is in the Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that the sin of morose delectation is not in the reason. For delectation
denotes a movement of the appetitive power, as stated above (Q. 31, A. 1). But the appetitive
power is distinct from the reason, which is an apprehensive power. Therefore morose delectation
is not in the reason.

Obj. 2: Further, the object shows to which power an act belongs, since it is through the act
that the power is directed to its object. Now a morose delectation is sometimes about sensible
goods, and not about the goods of the reason. Therefore the sin of morose delectation is not
in the reason.

Obj. 3: Further, a thing is said to be morose [*From the Latin mora--delay] through taking
a length of time. But length of time is no reason why an act should belong to a particular
power. Therefore morose delectation does not belong to the reason.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Trin. xii, 12) that "if the consent to a sensual delectation
goes no further than the mere thought of the pleasure, I deem this to be like as though the
woman alone had partaken of the forbidden fruit." Now "the woman" denotes the lower reason,
as he himself explains (De Trin. xii, 12). Therefore the sin of morose delectation is in the
reason.

I answer that, As stated (A. 5), sin may be in the reason, not only in respect of reason's
proper act, but sometimes in respect of its directing human actions. Now it is evident that
reason directs not only external acts, but also internal passions. Consequently when the reason
fails in directing the internal passions, sin is said to be in the reason, as also when it
fails in directing external actions. Now it fails, in two ways, in directing internal passions:
first, when it commands unlawful passions; for instance, when a man deliberately provokes himself
to a movement of anger, or of lust: secondly, when it fails to check the unlawful movement
of a passion; for instance, when a man, having deliberately considered that a rising movement
of passion is inordinate, continues, notwithstanding, to dwell (immoratur) upon it, and fails
to drive it away. And in this sense the sin of morose delectation is said to be in the reason.

Reply Obj. 1: Delectation is indeed in the appetitive power as its proximate principle; but
it is in the reason as its first mover, in accordance with what has been stated above (A. 1),
viz. that actions which do not pass into external matter are subjected in their principles.

Reply Obj. 2: Reason has its proper elicited act about its proper object; but it exercises
the direction of all the objects of those lower powers that can be directed by the reason:
and accordingly delectation about sensible objects comes also under the direction of reason.

Reply Obj. 3: Delectation is said to be morose not from a delay of time, but because the reason
in deliberating dwells (immoratur) thereon, and fails to drive it away, "deliberately holding
and turning over what should have been cast aside as soon as it touched the mind," as Augustine
says (De Trin. xii, 12).

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 7]

Whether the Sin of Consent to the Act Is in the Higher Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that the sin of consent to the act is not in the higher reason.
For consent is an act of the appetitive power, as stated above (Q. 15, A. 1): whereas the reason
is an apprehensive power. Therefore the sin of consent to the act is not in the higher reason.

Obj. 2: Further, "the higher reason is intent on contemplating and consulting the eternal law,"
as Augustine states (De Trin. xii, 7). [*Rationes aeternae, cf. I, Q. 15, AA. 2, 3, where as
in similar passages ratio has been rendered by the English type, because St. Thomas was speaking
of the Divine idea as the archetype of the creature. Hence the type or idea is a rule of conduct,
and is identified with the eternal law, (cf. A. 8, Obj. 1; A. 9)]. But sometimes consent is
given to an act, without consulting the eternal law: since man does not always think about
Divine things, whenever he consents to an act. Therefore the sin of consent to the act is not
always in the higher reason.

Obj. 3: Further, just as man can regulate his external actions according to the eternal law,
so can he regulate his internal pleasures or other passions. But "consent to a pleasure without
deciding to fulfil it by deed, belongs to the lower reason," as Augustine states (De Trin.
xii, 2). Therefore the consent to a sinful act should also be sometimes ascribed to the lower
reason.

Obj. 4: Further, just as the higher reason excels the lower, so does the reason excel the imagination.
Now sometimes man proceeds to act through the apprehension of the power of imagination, without
any deliberation of his reason, as when, without premeditation, he moves his hand, or foot.

I answer that, Consent implies a judgment about the thing to which consent is given. For just
as the speculative reason judges and delivers its sentence about intelligible matters, so the
practical reason judges and pronounces sentence on matters of action. Now we must observe that
in every case brought up for judgment, the final sentence belongs to the supreme court, even
as we see that in speculative matters the final sentence touching any proposition is delivered
by referring it to the first principles; since, so long as there remains a yet higher principle,
the question can yet be submitted to it: wherefore the judgment is still in suspense, the final
sentence not being as yet pronounced. But it is evident that human acts can be regulated by
the rule of human reason, which rule is derived from the created things that man knows naturally;
and further still, from the rule of the Divine law, as stated above (Q. 19, A. 4). Consequently,
since the rule of the Divine law is the higher rule, it follows that the ultimate sentence,
whereby the judgment is finally pronounced, belongs to the higher reason which is intent on
the eternal types. Now when judgment has to be pronounced on several points, the final judgment
deals with that which comes last; and, in human acts, the action itself comes last, and the
delectation which is the inducement to the action is a preamble thereto. Therefore the consent
to an action belongs properly to the higher reason, while the preliminary judgment which is
about the delectation belongs to the lower reason, which delivers judgment in a lower court:
although the higher reason can also judge of the delectation, since whatever is subject to
the judgment of the lower court, is subject also to the judgment of the higher court, but not
conversely.

Reply Obj. 1: Consent is an act of the appetitive power, not absolutely, but in consequence
of an act of reason deliberating and judging, as stated above (Q. 15, A. 3). Because the fact
that the consent is finally given to a thing is due to the fact that the will tends to that
upon which the reason has already passed its judgment. Hence consent may be ascribed both to
the will and to the reason.

Reply Obj. 2: The higher reason is said to consent, from the very fact that it fails to direct
the human act according to the Divine law, whether or not it advert to the eternal law. For
if it thinks of God's law, it holds it in actual contempt: and if not, it neglects it by a
kind of omission. Therefore the consent to a sinful act always proceeds from the higher reason:
because, as Augustine says (De Trin. xii, 12), "the mind cannot effectively decide on the commission
of a sin, unless by its consent, whereby it wields its sovereign power of moving the members
to action, or of restraining them from action, it become the servant or slave of the evil deed."

Reply Obj. 3: The higher reason, by considering the eternal law, can direct or restrain the
internal delectation, even as it can direct or restrain the external action: nevertheless,
before the judgment of the higher reason is pronounced the lower reason, while deliberating
the matter in reference to temporal principles, sometimes approves of this delectation: and
then the consent to the delectation belongs to the lower reason. If, however, after considering
the eternal law, man persists in giving the same consent, such consent will then belong to
the higher reason.

Reply Obj. 4: The apprehension of the power of imagination is sudden and indeliberate: wherefore
it can cause an act before the higher or lower reason has time to deliberate. But the judgment
of the lower reason is deliberate, and so requires time, during which the higher reason can
also deliberate; consequently, if by its deliberation it does not check the sinful act, this
will deservedly be imputed to it.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 8]

Whether Consent to Delectation Is a Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that consent to delectation is not a mortal sin, for consent to
delectation belongs to the lower reason, which does not consider the eternal types, i.e. the
eternal law, and consequently does not turn away from them. Now every mortal sin consists in
turning away from the Divine law, as is evident from Augustine's definition of mortal sin,
which was quoted above (Q. 71, A. 6). Therefore consent to delectation is not a mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, consent to a thing is not evil, unless the thing to which consent is given
be evil. Now "the cause of anything being such is yet more so," or at any rate not less. Consequently
the thing to which a man consents cannot be a lesser evil than his consent. But delectation
without deed is not a mortal sin, but only a venial sin. Therefore neither is the consent to
the delectation a mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, delectations differ in goodness and malice, according to the difference of
the deeds, as the Philosopher states (Ethic. x, 3, 5). Now the inward thought is one thing,
and the outward deed, e.g. fornication, is another. Therefore the delectation consequent to
the act of inward thought, differs in goodness and malice from the pleasure of fornication,
as much as the inward thought differs from the outward deed; and consequently there is a like
difference of consent on either hand. But the inward thought is not a mortal sin, nor is the
consent to that thought: and therefore neither is the consent to the delectation.

Obj. 4: Further, the external act of fornication or adultery is a mortal sin, not by reason
of the delectation, since this is found also in the marriage act, but by reason of an inordinateness
in the act itself. Now he that consents to the delectation does not, for this reason, consent
to the inordinateness of the act. Therefore he seems not to sin mortally.

Obj. 5: Further, the sin of murder is more grievous than simple fornication. Now it is not
a mortal sin to consent to the delectation resulting from the thought of murder. Much less
therefore is it a mortal sin to consent to the delectation resulting from the thought of fornication.

Obj. 6: Further, the Lord's prayer is recited every day for the remission of venial sins, as
Augustine asserts (Enchiridion lxxviii). Now Augustine teaches that consent to delectation
may be driven away by means of the Lord's Prayer: for he says (De Trin. xii, 12) that "this
sin is much less grievous than if it be decided to fulfil it by deed: wherefore we ought to
ask pardon for such thoughts also, and we should strike our breasts and say: 'Forgive us our
trespasses.'" Therefore consent to delectation is a venial sin.

On the contrary, Augustine adds after a few words: "Man will be altogether lost unless, through
the grace of the Mediator, he be forgiven those things which are deemed mere sins of thought,
since without the will to do them, he desires nevertheless to enjoy them." But no man is lost
except through mortal sin. Therefore consent to delectation is a mortal sin.

I answer that, There have been various opinions on this point, for some have held that consent
to delectation is not a mortal sin, but only a venial sin, while others have held it to be
a mortal sin, and this opinion is more common and more probable. For we must take note that
since every delectation results from some action, as stated in Ethic. x, 4, and again, that
since every delectation may be compared to two things, viz. to the operation from which it
results, and to the object in which a person takes delight. Now it happens that an action,
just as a thing, is an object of delectation, because the action itself can be considered as
a good and an end, in which the person who delights in it, rests. Sometimes the action itself,
which results in delectation, is the object of delectation, in so far as the appetitive power,
to which it belongs to take delight in anything, is brought to bear on the action itself as
a good: for instance, when a man thinks and delights in his thought, in so far as his thought
pleases him; while at other times the delight consequent to an action, e.g. a thought, has
for its object another action, as being the object of his thought; and then his thought proceeds
from the inclination of the appetite, not indeed to the thought, but to the action thought
of. Accordingly a man who is thinking of fornication, may delight in either of two things:
first, in the thought itself, secondly, in the fornication thought of. Now the delectation
in the thought itself results from the inclination of the appetite to the thought; and the
thought itself is not in itself a mortal sin; sometimes indeed it is only a venial sin, as
when a man thinks of such a thing for no purpose; and sometimes it is no sin at all, as when
a man has a purpose in thinking of it; for instance, he may wish to preach or dispute about
it. Consequently such affection or delectation in respect of the thought of fornication is
not a mortal sin in virtue of its genus, but is sometimes a venial sin and sometimes no sin
at all: wherefore neither is it a mortal sin to consent to such a thought. In this sense the
first opinion is true.

But that a man in thinking of fornication takes pleasure in the act thought of, is due to his
desire being inclined to this act. Wherefore the fact that a man consents to such a delectation,
amounts to nothing less than a consent to the inclination of his appetite to fornication: for
no man takes pleasure except in that which is in conformity with his appetite. Now it is a
mortal sin, if a man deliberately chooses that his appetite be conformed to what is in itself
a mortal sin. Wherefore such a consent to delectation in a mortal sin, is itself a mortal sin,
as the second opinion maintains.

Reply Obj. 1: Consent to delectation may be not only in the lower reason, but also in the higher
reason, as stated above (A. 7). Nevertheless the lower reason may turn away from the eternal
types, for, though it is not intent on them, as regulating according to them, which is proper
to the higher reason, yet, it is intent on them, as being regulated according to them: and
by turning from them in this sense, it may sin mortally; since even the acts of the lower powers
and of the external members may be mortal sins, in so far as the direction of the higher reason
fails in directing them according to the eternal types.

Reply Obj. 2: Consent to a sin that is venial in its genus, is itself a venial sin, and accordingly
one may conclude that the consent to take pleasure in a useless thought about fornication,
is a venial sin. But delectation in the act itself of fornication is, in its genus, a mortal
sin: and that it be a venial sin before the consent is given, is accidental, viz. on account
of the incompleteness of the act: which incompleteness ceases when the deliberate consent has
been given, so that therefore it has its complete nature and is a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers the delectation which has the thought for its object.

Reply Obj. 4: The delectation which has an external act for its object, cannot be without complacency
in the external act as such, even though there be no decision to fulfil it, on account of the
prohibition of some higher authority: wherefore the act is inordinate, and consequently the
delectation will be inordinate also.

Reply Obj. 5: The consent to delectation, resulting from complacency in an act of murder thought
of, is a mortal sin also: but not the consent to delectation resulting from complacency in
the thought of murder.

Reply Obj. 6: The Lord's Prayer is to be said in order that we may be preserved not only from
venial sin, but also from mortal sin.

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 9]

Whether There Can Be Venial Sin in the Higher Reason As Directing the Lower Powers?

Objection 1: It would seem that there cannot be venial sin in the higher reason as directing
the lower powers, i.e. as consenting to a sinful act. For Augustine says (De Trin. xii, 7)
that the "higher reason is intent on considering and consulting the eternal law." But mortal
sin consists in turning away from the eternal law. Therefore it seems that there can be no
other than mortal sin in the higher reason.

Obj. 2: Further, the higher reason is the principle of the spiritual life, as the heart is
of the body's life. But the diseases of the heart are deadly. Therefore the sins of the higher
reason are mortal.

Obj. 3: Further, a venial sin becomes a mortal sin if it be done out of contempt. But it would
seem impossible to commit even a venial sin, deliberately, without contempt. Since then the
consent of the higher reason is always accompanied by deliberate consideration of the eternal
law, it seems that it cannot be without mortal sin, on account of the contempt of the Divine law.

On the contrary, Consent to a sinful act belongs to the higher reason, as stated above (A.
7). But consent to an act of venial sin is itself a venial sin. Therefore a venial sin can
be in the higher reason. Now it may happen that the inordinateness of the act to which it consents,
is not contrary to the eternal law, in the same way as mortal sin is, because it does not imply
aversion from the last end, but is beside that law, as an act of venial sin is. Therefore when
the higher reason consents to the act of a venial sin, it does not turn away from the eternal
law: wherefore it sins, not mortally, but venially.

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: Disease of the heart is twofold: one which is in the very substance of the heart,
and affects its natural consistency, and such a disease is always mortal: the other is a disease
of the heart consisting in some disorder either of the movement or of the parts surrounding
the heart, and such a disease is not always mortal. In like manner there is mortal sin in the
higher reason whenever the order itself of the higher reason to its proper object which is
the eternal law, is destroyed; but when the disorder leaves this untouched, the sin is not
mortal but venial.

Reply Obj. 3: Deliberate consent to a sin does not always amount to contempt of the Divine
law, but only when the sin is contrary to the Divine law.

TENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 74, Art. 10]

Whether Venial Sin Can Be in the Higher Reason As Such?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sin cannot be in the higher reason as such, i.e. as
considering the eternal law. For the act of a power is not found to fail except that power
be inordinately disposed with regard to its object. Now the object of the higher reason is
the eternal law, in respect of which there can be no disorder without mortal sin. Therefore
there can be no venial sin in the higher reason as such.

Obj. 2: Further, since the reason is a deliberative power, there can be no act of reason without
deliberation. Now every inordinate movement in things concerning God, if it be deliberate,
is a mortal sin. Therefore venial sin is never in the higher reason as such.

Obj. 3: Further, it happens sometimes that a sin which takes us unawares, is a venial sin.
Now a deliberate sin is a mortal sin, through the reason, in deliberating, having recourse
to some higher good, by acting against which, man sins more grievously; just as when the reason
in deliberating about an inordinate pleasurable act, considers that it is contrary to the law
of God, it sins more grievously in consenting, than if it only considered that it is contrary
to moral virtue. But the higher reason cannot have recourse to any higher tribunal than its
own object. Therefore if a movement that takes us unawares is not a mortal sin, neither will
the subsequent deliberation make it a mortal sin; which is clearly false. Therefore there can
be no venial sin in the higher reason as such.

On the contrary, A sudden movement of unbelief is a venial sin. But it belongs to the higher
reason as such. Therefore there can be a venial sin in the higher reason as such.

I answer that, The higher reason regards its own object otherwise than the objects of the lower
powers that are directed by the higher reason. For it does not regard the objects of the lower
powers, except in so far as it consults the eternal law about them, and so it does not regard
them save by way of deliberation. Now deliberate consent to what is a mortal sin in its genus,
is itself a mortal sin; and consequently the higher reason always sins mortally, if the acts
of the lower powers to which it consents are mortal sins.

With regard to its own object it has a twofold act, viz. simple intuition, and deliberation,
in respect of which it again consults the eternal law about its own object. But in respect
of simple intuition, it can have an inordinate movement about Divine things, as when a man
suffers a sudden movement of unbelief. And although unbelief, in its genus, is a mortal sin,
yet a sudden movement of unbelief is a venial sin, because there is no mortal sin unless it
be contrary to the law of God. Now it is possible for one of the articles of faith to present
itself to the reason suddenly under some other aspect, before the eternal law, i.e. the law
of God, is consulted, or can be consulted, on the matter; as, for instance, when a man suddenly
apprehends the resurrection of the dead as impossible naturally, and rejects it, as soon as
he had thus apprehended it, before he has had time to deliberate and consider that this is
proposed to our belief in accordance with the Divine law. If, however, the movement of unbelief
remains after this deliberation, it is a mortal sin. Therefore, in sudden movements, the higher
reason may sin venially in respect of its proper object, even if it be a mortal sin in its
genus; or it may sin mortally in giving a deliberate consent; but in things pertaining to the
lower powers, it always sins mortally, in things which are mortal sins in their genus, but
not in those which are venial sins in their genus.

Reply Obj. 1: A sin which is against the eternal law, though it be mortal in its genus, may
nevertheless be venial, on account of the incompleteness of a sudden action, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: In matters of action, the simple intuition of the principles from which deliberation
proceeds, belongs to the reason, as well as the act of deliberation: even as in speculative
matters it belongs to the reason both to syllogize and to form propositions: consequently the
reason also can have a sudden movement.

Reply Obj. 3: One and the same thing may be the subject of different considerations, of which
one is higher than the other; thus the existence of God may be considered, either as possible
to be known by the human reason, or as delivered to us by Divine revelation, which is a higher
consideration. And therefore, although the object of the higher reason is, in its nature, something
sublime, yet it is reducible to some yet higher consideration: and in this way, that which
in the sudden movement was not a mortal sin, becomes a mortal sin in virtue of the deliberation
which brought it into the light of a higher consideration, as was explained above.

QUESTION 75

OF THE CAUSES OF SIN, IN GENERAL (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the causes of sin: (1) in general; (2) in particular. Under the first
head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether sin has a cause?

(2) Whether it has an internal cause?

(3) Whether it has an external cause?

(4) Whether one sin is the cause of another?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 75, Art. 1]

Whether Sin Has a Cause?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin has no cause. For sin has the nature of evil, as stated
above (Q. 71, A. 6). But evil has no cause, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv). Therefore sin
has no cause.

Obj. 2: Further, a cause is that from which something follows of necessity. Now that which
is of necessity, seems to be no sin, for every sin is voluntary. Therefore sin has no cause.

Obj. 3: Further, if sin has a cause, this cause is either good or evil. Likewise neither can
evil be the cause of sin, because the evil of punishment is a sequel to sin, and the evil of
guilt is the same as sin. Therefore sin has no cause.

On the contrary, Whatever is done has a cause, for, according to Job 5:6, "nothing upon earth
is done without a cause." But sin is something done; since it a "word, deed, or desire contrary
to the law of God." Therefore sin has a cause.

I answer that, A sin is an inordinate act. Accordingly, so far as it is an act, it can have
a direct cause, even as any other act; but, so far as it is inordinate, it has a cause, in
the same way as a negation or privation can have a cause. Now two causes may be assigned to
a negation: in the first place, absence of the cause of affirmation; i.e. the negation of the
cause itself, is the cause of the negation in itself; since the result of removing the cause
is the removal of the effect: thus the absence of the sun is the cause of darkness. In the
second place, the cause of an affirmation, of which a negation is a sequel, is the accidental
cause of the resulting negation: thus fire by causing heat in virtue of its principal tendency,
consequently causes a privation of cold. The first of these suffices to cause a simple negation.
But, since the inordinateness of sin and of every evil is not a simple negation, but the privation
of that which something ought naturally to have, such an inordinateness must needs have an
accidental efficient cause. For that which naturally is and ought to be in a thing, is never
lacking except on account of some impeding cause. And accordingly we are wont to say that evil,
which consists in a certain privation, has a deficient cause, or an accidental efficient cause.
Now every accidental cause is reducible to the direct cause. Since then sin, on the part of
its inordinateness, has an accidental efficient cause, and on the part of the act, a direct
efficient cause, it follows that the inordinateness of sin is a result of the cause of the
act. Accordingly then, the will lacking the direction of the rule of reason and of the Divine
law, and intent on some mutable good, causes the act of sin directly, and the inordinateness
of the act, indirectly, and beside the intention: for the lack of order in the act results
from the lack of direction in the will.

Reply Obj. 1: Sin signifies not only the privation of good, which privation is its inordinateness,
but also the act which is the subject of that privation, which has the nature of evil: and
how this evil has a cause, has been explained.

Reply Obj. 2: If this definition is to be verified in all cases, it must be understood as applying
to a cause which is sufficient and not impeded. For it happens that a thing is the sufficient
cause of something else, and that the effect does not follow of necessity, on account of some
supervening impediment: else it would follow that all things happen of necessity, as is proved
in Metaph. vi, text. 5. Accordingly, though sin has a cause, it does not follow that this is
a necessary cause, since its effect can be impeded.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above, the will in failing to apply the rule of reason or of the Divine
law, is the cause of sin. Now the fact of not applying the rule of reason or of the Divine
law, has not in itself the nature of evil, whether of punishment or of guilt, before it is
applied to the act. Wherefore accordingly, evil is not the cause of the first sin, but some
good lacking some other good.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 75, Art. 2]

Whether Sin Has an Internal Cause?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin has no internal cause. For that which is within a thing
is always in it. If therefore sin had an internal cause, man would always be sinning, since
given the cause, the effect follows.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing is not its own cause. But the internal movements of a man are sins.
Therefore they are not the cause of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, whatever is within man is either natural or voluntary. Now that which is natural
cannot be the cause of sin, for sin is contrary to nature, as Damascene states (De Fide Orth.
ii, 3; iv, 21); while that which is voluntary, if it be inordinate, is already a sin. Therefore
nothing intrinsic can be the cause of the first sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Duabus Anim. x, 10, 11; Retract. i, 9) that "the will is
the cause of sin."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the direct cause of sin must be considered on the part
of the act. Now we may distinguish a twofold internal cause of human acts, one remote, the
other proximate. The proximate internal cause of the human act is the reason and will, in respect
of which man has a free-will; while the remote cause is the apprehension of the sensitive part,
and also the sensitive appetite. For just as it is due to the judgment of reason, that the
will is moved to something in accord with reason, so it is due to an apprehension of the senses
that the sensitive appetite is inclined to something; which inclination sometimes influences
the will and reason, as we shall explain further on (Q. 77, A. 1). Accordingly a double interior
cause of sin may be assigned; one proximate, on the part of the reason and will; and the other
remote, on the part of the imagination or sensitive appetite.

But since we have said above (A. 1, ad 3) that the cause of sin is some apparent good as motive,
yet lacking the due motive, viz. the rule of reason or the Divine law, this motive which is
an apparent good, appertains to the apprehension of the senses and to the appetite; while the
lack of the due rule appertains to the reason, whose nature it is to consider this rule; and
the completeness of the voluntary sinful act appertains to the will, so that the act of the
will, given the conditions we have just mentioned, is already a sin.

Reply Obj. 1: That which is within a thing as its natural power, is always in it: but that
which is within it, as the internal act of the appetitive or apprehensive power, is not always
in it. Now the power of the will is the potential cause of sin, but is made actual by the preceding
movements, both of the sensitive part, in the first place, and afterwards, of the reason. For
it is because a thing is proposed as appetible to the senses, and because the appetite is inclined,
that the reason sometimes fails to consider the due rule, so that the will produces the act
of sin. Since therefore the movements that precede it are not always actual, neither is man
always actually sinning.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not true that all the internal acts belong to the substance of sin, for
this consists principally in the act of the will; but some precede and some follow the sin itself.

Reply Obj. 3: That which causes sin, as a power produces its act, is natural; and again, the
movement of the sensitive part, from which sin follows, is natural sometimes, as, for instance,
when anyone sins through appetite for food. Yet sin results in being unnatural from the very
fact that the natural rule fails, which man, in accord with his nature, ought to observe.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 75, Art. 3]

Whether Sin Has an External Cause?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin has no external cause. For sin is a voluntary act. Now
voluntary acts belong to principles that are within us, so that they have no external cause.
Therefore sin has no external cause.

Obj. 2: Further, as nature is an internal principle, so is the will. Now in natural things
sin can be due to no other than an internal cause; for instance, the birth of a monster is
due to the corruption of some internal principle. Therefore in the moral order, sin can arise
from no other than an internal cause. Therefore it has no external cause.

Obj. 3: Further, if the cause is multiplied, the effect is multiplied. Now the more numerous
and weighty the external inducements to sin are, the less is a man's inordinate act imputed
to him as a sin. Therefore nothing external is a cause of sin.

On the contrary, It is written (Num. 21:16): "Are not these they, that deceived the children
of Israel by the counsel of Balaam, and made you transgress against the Lord by the sin of
Phogor?" Therefore something external can be a cause of sin.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), the internal cause of sin is both the will, as completing
the sinful act, and the reason, as lacking the due rule, and the appetite, as inclining to
sin. Accordingly something external might be a cause of sin in three ways, either by moving
the will itself immediately, or by moving the reason, or by moving the sensitive appetite.
Now, as stated above (Q. 9, A. 6; Q. 10, A. 4), none can move the will inwardly save God alone,
who cannot be a cause of sin, as we shall prove further on (Q. 79, A. 1). Hence it follows
that nothing external can be a cause of sin, except by moving the reason, as a man or devil
by enticing to sin; or by moving the sensitive appetite, as certain external sensibles move
it. Yet neither does external enticement move the reason, of necessity, in matters of action,
nor do things proposed externally, of necessity move the sensitive appetite, except perhaps
it be disposed thereto in a certain way; and even the sensitive appetite does not, of necessity,
move the reason and will. Therefore something external can be a cause moving to sin, but not
so as to be a sufficient cause thereof: and the will alone is the sufficient completive cause
of sin being accomplished.

Reply Obj. 1: From the very fact that the external motive causes of sin do not lead to sin
sufficiently and necessarily, it follows that it remains in our power to sin or not to sin.

Reply Obj. 2: The fact that sin has an internal cause does not prevent its having an external
cause; for nothing external is a cause of sin, except through the medium of the internal cause,
as stated.

Reply Obj. 3: If the external causes inclining to sin be multiplied, the sinful acts are multiplied,
because they incline to the sinful act in both greater numbers and greater frequency. Nevertheless
the character of guilt is lessened, since this depends on the act being voluntary and in our power.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 75, Art. 4]

Whether One Sin Is a Cause of Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that one sin cannot be the cause of another. For there are four
kinds of cause, none of which will fit in with one sin causing another. Because the end has
the character of good; which is inconsistent with sin, which has the character of evil. In
like manner neither can a sin be an efficient cause, since "evil is not an efficient cause,
but is weak and powerless," as Dionysius declares (Div. Nom. iv). The material and formal cause
seems to have no place except in natural bodies, which are composed of matter and form. Therefore
sin cannot have either a material or a formal cause.

Obj. 2: Further, "to produce its like belongs to a perfect thing," as stated in Meteor. iv,
2 [*Cf. De Anima ii.]. But sin is essentially something imperfect. Therefore one sin cannot
be a cause of another.

Obj. 3: Further, if one sin is the cause of a second sin, in the same way, yet another sin
will be the cause of the first, and thus we go on indefinitely, which is absurd. Therefore
one sin is not the cause of another.

On the contrary, Gregory says on Ezechiel (Hom. xi): "A sin that is not quickly blotted out
by repentance, is both a sin and a cause of sin."

I answer that, Forasmuch as a sin has a cause on the part of the act of sin, it is possible
for one sin to be the cause of another, in the same way as one human act is the cause of another.
Hence it happens that one sin may be the cause of another in respect of the four kinds of causes.
First, after the manner of an efficient or moving cause, both directly and indirectly. Indirectly,
as that which removes an impediment is called an indirect cause of movement: for when man,
by one sinful act, loses grace, or charity, or shame, or anything else that withdraws him from
sin, he thereby falls into another sin, so that the first sin is the accidental cause of the
second. Directly, as when, by one sinful act, man is disposed to commit more readily another
like act: because acts cause dispositions and habits inclining to like acts. Secondly, after
the manner of a material cause, one sin is the cause of another, by preparing its matter: thus
covetousness prepares the matter for strife, which is often about the wealth a man has amassed
together. Thirdly, after the manner of a final cause, one sin causes another, in so far as
a man commits one sin for the sake of another which is his end; as when a man is guilty of
simony for the end of ambition, or fornication for the purpose of theft. And since the end
gives the form to moral matters, as stated above (Q. 1, A. 3; Q. 18, AA. 4, 6), it follows
that one sin is also the formal cause of another: because in the act of fornication committed
for the purpose of theft, the former is material while the latter is formal.

Reply Obj. 1: Sin, in so far as it is inordinate, has the character of evil; but, in so far
as it is an act, it has some good, at least apparent, for its end: so that, as an act, but
not as being inordinate, it can be the cause, both final and efficient, of another sin. A sin
has matter, not of which but about which it is: and it has its form from its end. Consequently
one sin can be the cause of another, in respect of the four kinds of cause, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Sin is something imperfect on account of its moral imperfection on the part of
its inordinateness. Nevertheless, as an act it can have natural perfection: and thus it can
be the cause of another sin.

Reply Obj. 3: Not every cause of one sin is another sin; so there is no need to go on indefinitely:
for one may come to one sin which is not caused by another sin.

QUESTION 76

OF THE CAUSES OF SIN, IN PARTICULAR (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the causes of sin, in particular, and (1) The internal causes of sin;
(2) its external causes; and (3) sins which are the causes of other sins. In view of what has
been said above (A. 2), the first consideration will be threefold: so that in the first place
we shall treat of ignorance, which is the cause of sin on the part of reason; secondly, of
weakness or passion, which is the cause of sin on the part of the sensitive appetite; thirdly,
of malice, which is the cause of sin on the part of the will.

Under the first head, there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether ignorance is a cause of sin?

(2) Whether ignorance is a sin?

(3) Whether it excuses from sin altogether?

(4) Whether it diminishes sin?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 76, Art. 1]

Whether Ignorance Can Be a Cause of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that ignorance cannot be a cause of sin: because a non-being is
not the cause of anything. Now ignorance is a non-being, since it is a privation of knowledge.
Therefore ignorance is not a cause of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, causes of sin should be reckoned in respect of sin being a turning to something,
as was stated above (Q. 75, A. 1). Now ignorance seems to savor of turning away from something.
Therefore it should not be reckoned a cause of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, every sin is seated in the will. Now the will does not turn to that which
is not known, because its object is the good apprehended. Therefore ignorance cannot be a cause
of sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Nat. et Grat. lxvii) "that some sin through ignorance."

I answer that, According to the Philosopher (Phys. viii, 27) a moving cause is twofold, direct
and indirect. A direct cause is one that moves by its own power, as the generator is the moving
cause of heavy and light things. An indirect cause, is either one that removes an impediment,
or the removal itself of an impediment: and it is in this way that ignorance can be the cause
of a sinful act; because it is a privation of knowledge perfecting the reason that forbids
the act of sin, in so far as it directs human acts.

Now we must observe that the reason directs human acts in accordance with a twofold knowledge,
universal and particular: because in conferring about what is to be done, it employs a syllogism,
the conclusion of which is an act of judgment, or of choice, or an operation. Now actions are
about singulars: wherefore the conclusion of a practical syllogism is a singular proposition.
But a singular proposition does not follow from a universal proposition, except through the
medium of a particular proposition: thus a man is restrained from an act of parricide, by the
knowledge that it is wrong to kill one's father, and that this man is his father. Hence ignorance
about either of these two propositions, viz. of the universal principle which is a rule of
reason, or of the particular circumstance, could cause an act of parricide. Hence it is clear
that not every kind of ignorance is the cause of a sin, but that alone which removes the knowledge
which would prevent the sinful act. Consequently if a man's will be so disposed that he would
not be restrained from the act of parricide, even though he recognized his father, his ignorance
about his father is not the cause of his committing the sin, but is concomitant with the sin:
wherefore such a man sins, not "through ignorance" but "in ignorance," as the Philosopher states
(Ethic. iii, 1).

Reply Obj. 1: Non-being cannot be the direct cause of anything: but it can be an accidental
cause, as being the removal of an impediment.

Reply Obj. 2: As knowledge, which is removed by ignorance, regards sin as turning towards something,
so too, ignorance of this respect of a sin is the cause of that sin, as removing its impediment.

Reply Obj. 3: The will cannot turn to that which is absolutely unknown: but if something be
known in one respect, and unknown in another, the will can will it. It is thus that ignorance
is the cause of sin: for instance, when a man knows that what he is killing is a man, but not
that it is his own father; or when one knows that a certain act is pleasurable, but not that
it is a sin.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 76, Art. 2]

Whether Ignorance Is a Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that ignorance is not a sin. For sin is "a word, deed or desire
contrary to God's law," as stated above (Q. 71, A. 5). Now ignorance does not denote an act,
either internal or external. Therefore ignorance is not a sin.

Obj. 2: Further, sin is more directly opposed to grace than to knowledge. Now privation of
grace is not a sin, but a punishment resulting from sin. Therefore ignorance which is privation
of knowledge is not a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, if ignorance is a sin, this can only be in so far as it is voluntary. But
if ignorance is a sin, through being voluntary, it seems that the sin will consist in the act
itself of the will, rather than in the ignorance. Therefore the ignorance will not be a sin,
but rather a result of sin.

Obj. 4: Further, every sin is taken away by repentance, nor does any sin, except only original
sin, pass as to guilt, yet remain in act. Now ignorance is not removed by repentance, but remains
in act, all its guilt being removed by repentance. Therefore ignorance is not a sin, unless
perchance it be original sin.

Obj. 5: Further, if ignorance be a sin, then a man will be sinning, as long as he remains in
ignorance. But ignorance is continual in the one who is ignorant. Therefore a person in ignorance
would be continually sinning, which is clearly false, else ignorance would be a most grievous
sin. Therefore ignorance is not a sin.

On the contrary, Nothing but sin deserves punishment. But ignorance deserves punishment, according
to 1 Cor. 14:38: "If any man know not, he shall not be known." Therefore ignorance is a sin.

I answer that, Ignorance differs from nescience, in that nescience denotes mere absence of
knowledge; wherefore whoever lacks knowledge about anything, can be said to be nescient about
it: in which sense Dionysius puts nescience in the angels (Coel. Hier. vii). On the other hand,
ignorance denotes privation of knowledge, i.e. lack of knowledge of those things that one has
a natural aptitude to know. Some of these we are under an obligation to know, those, to wit,
without the knowledge of which we are unable to accomplish a due act rightly. Wherefore all
are bound in common to know the articles of faith, and the universal principles of right, and
each individual is bound to know matters regarding his duty or state. Meanwhile there are other
things which a man may have a natural aptitude to know, yet he is not bound to know them, such
as the geometrical theorems, and contingent particulars, except in some individual case. Now
it is evident that whoever neglects to have or do what he ought to have or do, commits a sin
of omission. Wherefore through negligence, ignorance of what one is bound to know, is a sin;
whereas it is not imputed as a sin to man, if he fails to know what he is unable to know. Consequently
ignorance of such like things is called "invincible," because it cannot be overcome by study.
For this reason such like ignorance, not being voluntary, since it is not in our power to be
rid of it, is not a sin: wherefore it is evident that no invincible ignorance is a sin. On
the other hand, vincible ignorance is a sin, if it be about matters one is bound to know; but
not, if it be about things one is not bound to know.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (Q. 71, A. 6, ad 1), when we say that sin is a "word, deed or
desire," we include the opposite negations, by reason of which omissions have the character
of sin; so that negligence, in as much as ignorance is a sin, is comprised in the above definition
of sin; in so far as one omits to say what one ought, or to do what one ought, or to desire
what one ought, in order to acquire the knowledge which we ought to have.

Reply Obj. 2: Although privation of grace is not a sin in itself, yet by reason of negligence
in preparing oneself for grace, it may have the character of sin, even as ignorance; nevertheless
even here there is a difference, since man can acquire knowledge by his acts, whereas grace
is not acquired by acts, but by God's favor.

Reply Obj. 3: Just as in a sin of transgression, the sin consists not only in the act of the
will, but also in the act willed, which is commanded by the will; so in a sin of omission not
only the act of the will is a sin, but also the omission, in so far as it is in some way voluntary;
and accordingly, the neglect to know, or even lack of consideration is a sin.

Reply Obj. 4: Although when the guilt has passed away through repentance, the ignorance remains,
according as it is a privation of knowledge, nevertheless the negligence does not remain, by
reason of which the ignorance is said to be a sin.

Reply Obj. 5: Just as in other sins of omission, man sins actually only at the time at which
the affirmative precept is binding, so is it with the sin of ignorance. For the ignorant man
sins actually indeed, not continually, but only at the time for acquiring the knowledge that
he ought to have.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 76, Art. 3]

Whether Ignorance Excuses from Sin Altogether?

Objection 1: It would seem that ignorance excuses from sin altogether. For as Augustine says
(Retract. i, 9), every sin is voluntary. Now ignorance causes involuntariness, as stated above
(Q. 6, A. 8). Therefore ignorance excuses from sin altogether.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is done beside the intention, is done accidentally. Now the intention
cannot be about what is unknown. Therefore what a man does through ignorance is accidental
in human acts. But what is accidental does not give the species. Therefore nothing that is
done through ignorance in human acts, should be deemed sinful or virtuous.

Obj. 3: Further, man is the subject of virtue and sin, inasmuch as he is partaker of reason.
Now ignorance excludes knowledge which perfects the reason. Therefore ignorance excuses from
sin altogether.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. iii, 18) that "some things done through ignorance
are rightly reproved." Now those things alone are rightly reproved which are sins. Therefore
some things done through ignorance are sins. Therefore ignorance does not altogether excuse
from sin.

I answer that, Ignorance, by its very nature, renders the act which it causes involuntary.
Now it has already been stated (AA. 1, 2) that ignorance is said to cause the act which the
contrary knowledge would have prevented; so that this act, if knowledge were to hand, would
be contrary to the will, which is the meaning of the word involuntary. If, however, the knowledge,
which is removed by ignorance, would not have prevented the act, on account of the inclination
of the will thereto, the lack of this knowledge does not make that man unwilling, but not willing,
as stated in Ethic. iii, 1: and such like ignorance which is not the cause of the sinful act,
as already stated, since it does not make the act to be involuntary, does not excuse from sin.
The same applies to any ignorance that does not cause, but follows or accompanies the sinful act.

On the other hand, ignorance which is the cause of the act, since it makes it to be involuntary,
of its very nature excuses from sin, because voluntariness is essential to sin. But it may
fail to excuse altogether from sin, and this for two reasons. First, on the part of the thing
itself which is not known. For ignorance excuses from sin, in so far as something is not known
to be a sin. Now it may happen that a person ignores some circumstance of a sin, the knowledge
of which circumstance would prevent him from sinning, whether it belong to the substance of
the sin, or not; and nevertheless his knowledge is sufficient for him to be aware that the
act is sinful; for instance, if a man strike someone, knowing that it is a man (which suffices
for it to be sinful) and yet be ignorant of the fact that it is his father, (which is a circumstance
constituting another species of sin); or, suppose that he is unaware that this man will defend
himself and strike him back, and that if he had known this, he would not have struck him (which
does not affect the sinfulness of the act). Wherefore, though this man sins through ignorance,
yet he is not altogether excused, because, not withstanding, he has knowledge of the sin. Secondly,
this may happen on the part of the ignorance itself, because, to wit, this ignorance is voluntary,
either directly, as when a man wishes of set purpose to be ignorant of certain things that
he may sin the more freely; or indirectly, as when a man, through stress of work or other occupations,
neglects to acquire the knowledge which would restrain him from sin. For such like negligence
renders the ignorance itself voluntary and sinful, provided it be about matters one is bound
and able to know. Consequently this ignorance does not altogether excuse from sin. If, however,
the ignorance be such as to be entirely involuntary, either through being invincible, or through
being of matters one is not bound to know, then such like ignorance excuses from sin altogether.

Reply Obj.

Reply Obj. 2: So far as voluntariness remains in the ignorant person, the intention of sin
remains in him: so that, in this respect, his sin is not accidental.

Reply Obj. 3: If the ignorance be such as to exclude the use of reason entirely, it excuses
from sin altogether, as is the case with madmen and imbeciles: but such is not always the ignorance
that causes the sin; and so it does not always excuse from sin altogether.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 76, Art. 4]

Whether Ignorance Diminishes a Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that ignorance does not diminish a sin. For that which is common
to all sins does not diminish sin. Now ignorance is common to all sins, for the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iii, 1) that "every evil man is ignorant." Therefore ignorance does not diminish sin.

Obj. 2: Further, one sin added to another makes a greater sin. But ignorance is itself a sin,
as stated above (A. 2). Therefore it does not diminish a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the same thing does not both aggravate and diminish sin. Now ignorance aggravates
sin; for Ambrose commenting on Rom. 2:4, "Knowest thou not that the benignity of God leadeth
thee to penance?" says: "Thy sin is most grievous if thou knowest not." Therefore ignorance
does not diminish sin.

Obj. 4: Further, if any kind of ignorance diminishes a sin, this would seem to be chiefly the
case as regards the ignorance which removes the use of reason altogether. Now this kind of
ignorance does not diminish sin, but increases it: for the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 5)
that the "punishment is doubled for a drunken man." Therefore ignorance does not diminish sin.

On the contrary, Whatever is a reason for sin to be forgiven, diminishes sin. Now such is ignorance,
as is clear from 1 Tim. 1:13: "I obtained . . . mercy . . . because I did it ignorantly." Therefore
ignorance diminishes or alleviates sin.

I answer that, Since every sin is voluntary, ignorance can diminish sin, in so far as it diminishes
its voluntariness; and if it does not render it less voluntary, it nowise alleviates the sin.
Now it is evident that the ignorance which excuses from sin altogether (through making it altogether
involuntary) does not diminish a sin, but does away with it altogether. On the other hand,
ignorance which is not the cause of the sin being committed, but is concomitant with it, neither
diminishes nor increases the sin.

Therefore sin cannot be alleviated by any ignorance, but only by such as is a cause of the
sin being committed, and yet does not excuse from the sin altogether. Now it happens sometimes
that such like ignorance is directly and essentially voluntary, as when a man is purposely
ignorant that he may sin more freely, and ignorance of this kind seems rather to make the act
more voluntary and more sinful, since it is through the will's intention to sin that he is
willing to bear the hurt of ignorance, for the sake of freedom in sinning. Sometimes, however,
the ignorance which is the cause of a sin being committed, is not directly voluntary, but indirectly
or accidentally, as when a man is unwilling to work hard at his studies, the result being that
he is ignorant, or as when a man willfully drinks too much wine, the result being that he becomes
drunk and indiscreet, and this ignorance diminishes voluntariness and consequently alleviates
the sin. For when a thing is not known to be a sin, the will cannot be said to consent to the
sin directly, but only accidentally; wherefore, in that case there is less contempt, and therefore
less sin.

Reply Obj. 1: The ignorance whereby "every evil man is ignorant," is not the cause of sin being
committed, but something resulting from that cause, viz. of the passion or habit inclining to sin.

Reply Obj. 2: One sin added to another makes more sins, but it does not always make a sin greater,
since, perchance, the two sins do not coincide, but are separate. It may happen, if the first
diminishes the second, that the two together have not the same gravity as one of them alone
would have; thus murder is a more grievous sin if committed by a man when sober, than if committed
by a man when drunk, although in the latter case there are two sins: because drunkenness diminishes
the sinfulness of the resulting sin more than its own gravity implies.

Reply Obj. 3: The words of Ambrose may be understood as referring to simply affected ignorance;
or they may have reference to a species of the sin of ingratitude, the highest degree of which
is that man even ignores the benefits he has received; or again, they may be an allusion to
the ignorance of unbelief, which undermines the foundation of the spiritual edifice.

Reply Obj. 4: The drunken man deserves a "double punishment" for the two sins which he commits,
viz. drunkenness, and the sin which results from his drunkenness: and yet drunkenness, on account
of the ignorance connected therewith, diminishes the resulting sin, and more, perhaps, than
the gravity of the drunkenness implies, as stated above (ad 2). It might also be said that
the words quoted refer to an ordinance of the legislator named Pittacus, who ordered drunkards
to be more severely punished if they assaulted anyone; having an eye, not to the indulgence
which the drunkard might claim, but to expediency, since more harm is done by the drunk than
by the sober, as the Philosopher observes (Polit. ii).

QUESTION 77

OF THE CAUSE OF SIN, ON THE PART OF THE SENSITIVE APPETITE (In Eight Articles)

We must now consider the cause of sin, on the part of the sensitive appetite, as to whether
a passion of the soul may be a cause of sin: and under this head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether a passion of the sensitive appetite can move or incline the will?

(2) Whether it can overcome the reason against the latter's knowledge?

(3) Whether a sin resulting from a passion is a sin of weakness?

(4) Whether the passion of self-love is the cause of every sin?

(5) Of three causes mentioned in 1 John 2:16: "Concupiscence of the eyes, Concupiscence of
the flesh," and "Pride of life."

(6) Whether the passion which causes a sin diminishes it?

(7) Whether passion excuses from sin altogether?

(8) Whether a sin committed through passion can be mortal?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 1]

Whether the Will Is Moved by a Passion of the Sensitive Appetite?

Objection 1: It would seem that the will is not moved by a passion of the sensitive appetite.
For no passive power is moved except by its object. Now the will is a power both passive and
active, inasmuch as it is mover and moved, as the Philosopher says of the appetitive power
in general (De Anima iii, text. 54). Since therefore the object of the will is not a passion
of the sensitive appetite, but good defined by the reason, it seems that a passion of the sensitive
appetite does not move the will.

Obj. 2: Further, the higher mover is not moved by the lower; thus the soul is not moved by
the body. Now the will, which is the rational appetite, is compared to the sensitive appetite,
as a higher mover to a lower: for the Philosopher says (De Anima iii, text. 57) that "the rational
appetite moves the sensitive appetite, even as, in the heavenly bodies, one sphere moves another."
Therefore the will cannot be moved by a passion of the sensitive appetite.

Obj. 3: Further, nothing immaterial can be moved by that which is material. Now the will is
an immaterial power, because it does not use a corporeal organ, since it is in the reason,
as stated in De Anima iii, text. 42: whereas the sensitive appetite is a material force, since
it is seated in an organ of the body. Therefore a passion of the sensitive appetite cannot
move the intellective appetite.

On the contrary, It is written (Dan. 13:56): "Lust hath perverted thy heart."

I answer that, A passion of the sensitive appetite cannot draw or move the will directly; but
it can do so indirectly, and this in two ways. First, by a kind of distraction: because, since
all the soul's powers are rooted in the one essence of the soul, it follows of necessity that,
when one power is intent in its act, another power becomes remiss, or is even altogether impeded,
in its act, both because all energy is weakened through being divided, so that, on the contrary,
through being centered on one thing, it is less able to be directed to several; and because,
in the operations of the soul, a certain attention is requisite, and if this be closely fixed
on one thing, less attention is given to another. In this way, by a kind of distraction, when
the movement of the sensitive appetite is enforced in respect of any passion whatever, the
proper movement of the rational appetite or will must, of necessity, become remiss or altogether
impeded.

Secondly, this may happen on the part of the will's object, which is good apprehended by reason.
Because the judgment and apprehension of reason is impeded on account of a vehement and inordinate
apprehension of the imagination and judgment of the estimative power, as appears in those who
are out of their mind. Now it is evident that the apprehension of the imagination and the judgment
of the estimative power follow the passion of the sensitive appetite, even as the verdict of
the taste follows the disposition of the tongue: for which reason we observe that those who
are in some kind of passion, do not easily turn their imagination away from the object of their
emotion, the result being that the judgment of the reason often follows the passion of the
sensitive appetite, and consequently the will's movement follows it also, since it has a natural
inclination always to follow the judgment of the reason.

Reply Obj. 1: Although the passion of the sensitive appetite is not the direct object of the
will, yet it occasions a certain change in the judgment about the object of the will, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: The higher mover is not directly moved by the lower; but, in a manner, it can
be moved by it indirectly, as stated.

The Third Objection is solved in like manner.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 2]

Whether the Reason Can Be Overcome by a Passion, Against Its Knowledge?

Objection 1: It would seem that the reason cannot be overcome by a passion, against its knowledge.
For the stronger is not overcome by the weaker. Now knowledge, on account of its certitude,
is the strongest thing in us. Therefore it cannot be overcome by a passion, which is weak and
soon passes away.

Obj. 2: Further, the will is not directed save to the good or the apparent good. Now when a
passion draws the will to that which is really good, it does not influence the reason against
its knowledge; and when it draws it to that which is good apparently, but not really, it draws
it to that which appears good to the reason. But what appears to the reason is in the knowledge
of the reason. Therefore a passion never influences the reason against its knowledge.

Obj. 3: Further, if it be said that it draws the reason from its knowledge of something in
general, to form a contrary judgment about a particular matter--on the contrary, if a universal
and a particular proposition be opposed, they are opposed by contradiction, e.g. "Every man,"
and "Not every man." Now if two opinions contradict one another, they are contrary to one another,
as stated in Peri Herm. ii. If therefore anyone, while knowing something in general, were to
pronounce an opposite judgment in a particular case, he would have two contrary opinions at
the same time, which is impossible.

Obj. 4: Further, whoever knows the universal, knows also the particular which he knows to be
contained in the universal: thus who knows that every mule is sterile, knows that this particular
animal is sterile, provided he knows it to be a mule, as is clear from Poster. i, text. 2.
Now he who knows something in general, e.g. that "no fornication is lawful," knows this general
proposition to contain, for example, the particular proposition, "This is an act of fornication."
Therefore it seems that his knowledge extends to the particular.

Obj. 5: Further, according to the Philosopher (Peri Herm. i), "words express the thoughts of
the mind." Now it often happens that man, while in a state of passion, confesses that what
he has chosen is an evil, even in that particular case. Therefore he has knowledge, even in
particular.

Therefore it seems that the passions cannot draw the reason against its universal knowledge;
because it is impossible for it to have universal knowledge together with an opposite particular
judgment.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 7:23): "I see another law in my members, fighting against
the law of my mind, and captivating me in the law of sin." Now the law that is in the members
is concupiscence, of which he had been speaking previously. Since then concupiscence is a passion,
it seems that a passion draws the reason counter to its knowledge.

I answer that, As the Philosopher states (Ethic. vii, 2), the opinion of Socrates was that
knowledge can never be overcome by passion; wherefore he held every virtue to be a kind of
knowledge, and every sin a kind of ignorance. In this he was somewhat right, because, since
the object of the will is a good or an apparent good, it is never moved to an evil, unless
that which is not good appear good in some respect to the reason; so that the will would never
tend to evil, unless there were ignorance or error in the reason. Hence it is written (Prov.
14:22): "They err that work evil." Consequently he was not altogether right, and it is necessary,
with the Philosopher (Ethic. vii, 3) to make a distinction. Because, since man is directed
to right action by a twofold knowledge, viz. universal and particular, a defect in either of
them suffices to hinder the rectitude of the will and of the deed, as stated above (Q. 76,
A. 1). It may happen, then, that a man has some knowledge in general, e.g. that no fornication
is lawful, and yet he does not know in particular that this act, which is fornication, must
not be done; and this suffices for the will not to follow the universal knowledge of the reason.
Again, it must be observed that nothing prevents a thing which is known habitually from not
being considered actually: so that it is possible for a man to have correct knowledge not only
in general but also in particular, and yet not to consider his knowledge actually: and in such
a case it does not seem difficult for a man to act counter to what he does not actually consider.
Now, that a man sometimes fails to consider in particular what he knows habitually, may happen
through mere lack of attention: for instance, a man who knows geometry, may not attend to the
consideration of geometrical conclusions, which he is ready to consider at any moment. Sometimes
man fails to consider actually what he knows habitually, on account of some hindrance supervening,
e.g. some external occupation, or some bodily infirmity; and, in this way, a man who is in
a state of passion, fails to consider in particular what he knows in general, in so far as
the passions hinder him from considering it. Now it hinders him in three ways. First, by way
of distraction, as explained above (A. 1). Secondly, by way of opposition, because a passion
often inclines to something contrary to what man knows in general. Thirdly, by way of bodily
transmutation, the result of which is that the reason is somehow fettered so as not to exercise
its act freely; even as sleep or drunkenness, on account of some change wrought on the body,
fetters the use of reason. That this takes place in the passions is evident from the fact that
sometimes, when the passions are very intense, man loses the use of reason altogether: for
many have gone out of their minds through excess of love or anger. It is in this way that passion
draws the reason to judge in particular, against the knowledge which it has in general.

Reply Obj. 1: Universal knowledge, which is most certain, does not hold the foremost place
in action, but rather particular knowledge, since actions are about singulars: wherefore it
is not astonishing that, in matters of action, passion acts counter to universal knowledge,
if the consideration of particular knowledge be lacking.

Reply Obj. 2: The fact that something appears good in particular to the reason, whereas it
is not good, is due to a passion: and yet this particular judgment is contrary to the universal
knowledge of the reason.

Reply Obj. 3: It is impossible for anyone to have an actual knowledge or true opinion about
a universal affirmative proposition, and at the same time a false opinion about a particular
negative proposition, or vice versa: but it may well happen that a man has true habitual knowledge
about a universal affirmative proposition, and actually a false opinion about a particular
negative: because an act is directly opposed, not to a habit, but to an act.

Reply Obj. 4: He that has knowledge in a universal, is hindered, on account of a passion, from
reasoning about that universal, so as to draw the conclusion: but he reasons about another
universal proposition suggested by the inclination of the passion, and draws his conclusion
accordingly. Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 3) that the syllogism of an incontinent
man has four propositions, two particular and two universal, of which one is of the son, e.g.
No fornication is lawful, and the other, of passion, e.g. Pleasure is to be pursued. Hence
passion fetters the reason, and hinders it from arguing and concluding under the first proposition;
so that while the passion lasts, the reason argues and concludes under the second.

Reply Obj. 5: Even as a drunken man sometimes gives utterance to words of deep signification,
of which, however, he is incompetent to judge, his drunkenness hindering him; so that a man
who is in a state of passion, may indeed say in words that he ought not to do so and so, yet
his inner thought is that he must do it, as stated in Ethic. vii, 3.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 3]

Whether a Sin Committed Through Passion, Should Be Called a Sin of Weakness?

Objection 1: It would seem that a sin committed through passion should not be called a sin
of weakness. For a passion is a vehement movement of the sensitive appetite, as stated above
(A. 1). Now vehemence of movements is evidence of strength rather than of weakness. Therefore
a sin committed through passion, should not be called a sin of weakness.

Obj. 2: Further, weakness in man regards that which is most fragile in him. Now this is the
flesh; whence it is written (Ps. 77:39): "He remembered that they are flesh." Therefore sins
of weakness should be those which result from bodily defects, rather than those which are due
to a passion.

Obj. 3: Further, man does not seem to be weak in respect of things which are subject to his
will. Now it is subject to man's will, whether he do or do not the things to which his passions
incline him, according to Gen. 4:7: "Thy appetite shall be under thee [*Vulg.: 'The lust thereof
shall be under thee.'], and thou shalt have dominion over it." Therefore sin committed through
passion is not a sin of weakness.

On the contrary, Cicero (De Quaest. Tusc. iv) calls the passions diseases of the soul. Now
weakness is another name for disease. Therefore a sin that arises from passion should be called
a sin of weakness.

I answer that, The cause of sin is on the part of the soul, in which, chiefly, sin resides.
Now weakness may be applied to the soul by way of likeness to weakness of the body. Accordingly,
man's body is said to be weak, when it is disabled or hindered in the execution of its proper
action, through some disorder of the body's parts, so that the humors and members of the human
body cease to be subject to its governing and motive power. Hence a member is said to be weak,
when it cannot do the work of a healthy member, the eye, for instance, when it cannot see clearly,
as the Philosopher states (De Hist. Animal. x, 1). Therefore weakness of the soul is when the
soul is hindered from fulfilling its proper action on account of a disorder in its parts. Now
as the parts of the body are said to be out of order, when they fail to comply with the order
of nature, so too the parts of the soul are said to be inordinate, when they are not subject
to the order of reason, for the reason is the ruling power of the soul's parts. Accordingly,
when the concupiscible or irascible power is affected by any passion contrary to the order
of reason, the result being that an impediment arises in the aforesaid manner to the due action
of man, it is said to be a sin of weakness. Hence the Philosopher (Ethic. vii, 8) compares
the incontinent man to an epileptic, whose limbs move in a manner contrary to his intention.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as in the body the stronger the movement against the order of nature, the
greater the weakness, so likewise, the stronger the movement of passion against the order of
reason, the greater the weakness of the soul.

Reply Obj. 2: Sin consists chiefly in an act of the will, which is not hindered by weakness
of the body: for he that is weak in body may have a will ready for action, and yet be hindered
by a passion, as stated above (A. 1). Hence when we speak of sins of weakness, we refer to
weakness of soul rather than of body. And yet even weakness of soul is called weakness of the
flesh, in so far as it is owing to a condition of the flesh that the passions of the soul arise
in us through the sensitive appetite being a power using a corporeal organ.

Reply Obj. 3: It is in the will's power to give or refuse its consent to what passion inclines
us to do, and it is in this sense that our appetite is said to be under us; and yet this consent
or dissent of the will is hindered in the way already explained (A. 1).

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 4]

Whether Self-love Is the Source of Every Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that self-love is not the source of every sin. For that which is
good and right in itself is not the proper cause of sin. Now love of self is a good and right
thing in itself: wherefore man is commanded to love his neighbor as himself (Lev. 19:18). Therefore
self-love cannot be the proper cause of sin.

Obj. Now concupiscence is a distinct passion from love, as stated above (Q. 3, A. 2; Q. 23,
A. 4). Therefore self-love is not the cause of every sin. Therefore self-love is not the only
cause of sin.

Obj. 4: Further, as man sins at times through inordinate love of self, so does he sometimes
through inordinate love of his neighbor. Therefore self-love is not the cause of every sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 28) that "self-love, amounting to contempt
of God, builds up the city of Babylon." Now every sin makes man a citizen of Babylon. Therefore
self-love is the cause of every sin.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 75, A. 1), the proper and direct cause of sin is to be considered
on the part of the adherence to a mutable good; in which respect every sinful act proceeds
from inordinate desire for some temporal good. Now the fact that anyone desires a temporal
good inordinately, is due to the fact that he loves himself inordinately; for to wish anyone
some good is to love him. Therefore it is evident that inordinate love of self is the cause
of every sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Well ordered self-love, whereby man desires a fitting good for himself, is right
and natural; but it is inordinate self-love, leading to contempt of God, that Augustine (De
Civ. Dei xiv, 28) reckons to be the cause of sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Concupiscence, whereby a man desires good for himself, is reduced to self-love
as to its cause, as stated.

Reply Obj. 3: Man is said to love both the good he desires for himself, and himself to whom
he desires it. Love, in so far as it is directed to the object of desire (e.g. a man is said
to love wine or money) admits, as its cause, fear which pertains to avoidance of evil: for
every sin arises either from inordinate desire for some good, or from inordinate avoidance
of some evil. But each of these is reduced to self-love, since it is through loving himself
that man either desires good things, or avoids evil things.

Reply Obj. 4: A friend is like another self (Ethic. ix): wherefore the sin which is committed
through love for a friend, seems to be committed through self-love.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 5]

Whether Concupiscence of the Flesh, Concupiscence of the Eyes, and Pride of Life Are Fittingly
Described As Causes of Sin? Now pride of life is not included in covetousness. Therefore it
should not be reckoned among the causes of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, concupiscence of the flesh is aroused chiefly by what is seen by the eyes,
according to Dan. 13:56: "Beauty hath deceived thee." Therefore concupiscence of the eyes should
not be condivided with concupiscence of the flesh.

Obj. 3: Further, concupiscence is desire for pleasure, as stated above (Q. 30, A. 2). Now objects
of pleasure are perceived not only by the sight, but also by the other senses. Therefore "concupiscence
of the hearing" and of the other senses should also have been mentioned.

Obj. 4: Further, just as man is induced to sin, through inordinate desire of good things, so
is he also, through inordinate avoidance of evil things, as stated above (A. 4, ad 3). But
nothing is mentioned here pertaining to avoidance of evil. Therefore the causes of sin are
insufficiently described. Now a thing is said to be "in the world" by reason of sin: wherefore
it is written (1 John 5:19): "The whole world is seated in wickedness." Therefore these three
are causes of sin.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 4), inordinate self-love is the cause of every sin. Now
self-love includes inordinate desire of good: for a man desires good for the one he loves.
Hence it is evident that inordinate desire of good is the cause of every sin. Now good is,
in two ways, the object of the sensitive appetite, wherein are the passions which are the cause
of sin: first, absolutely, according as it is the object of the concupiscible part; secondly,
under the aspect of difficulty, according as it is the object of the irascible part, as stated
above (Q. 23, A. 1). Again, concupiscence is twofold, as stated above (Q. 30, A. 3). One is
natural, and is directed to those things which sustain the nature of the body, whether as regards
the preservation of the individual, such as food, drink, and the like, or as regards the preservation
of the species, such as sexual matters: and the inordinate appetite of such things is called
"concupiscence of the flesh." The other is spiritual concupiscence, and is directed to those
things which do not afford sustentation or pleasure in respect of the fleshly senses, but are
delectable in respect of the apprehension or imagination, or some similar mode of perception;
such are money, apparel, and the like; and this spiritual concupiscence is called "concupiscence
of the eyes," whether this be taken as referring to the sight itself, of which the eyes are
the organ, so as to denote curiosity according to Augustine's exposition (Confess. x); or to
the concupiscence of things which are proposed outwardly to the eyes, so as to denote covetousness,
according to the explanation of others.

The inordinate appetite of the arduous good pertains to the "pride of life"; for pride is the
inordinate appetite of excellence, as we shall state further on (Q. 84, A. 2; II-II, Q. 162, A. 1).

It is therefore evident that all passions that are a cause of sin can be reduced to these three:
since all the passions of the concupiscible part can be reduced to the first two, and all the
irascible passions to the third, which is not divided into two because all the irascible passions
conform to spiritual concupiscence.

Reply Obj. 1: "Pride of life" is included in covetousness according as the latter denotes any
kind of appetite for any kind of good. How covetousness, as a special vice, which goes by the
name of "avarice," is the root of all sins, shall be explained further on (Q. 84, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 2: "Concupiscence of the eyes" does not mean here the concupiscence for all things
which can be seen by the eyes, but only for such things as afford, not carnal pleasure in respect
of touch, but in respect of the eyes, i.e. of any apprehensive power.

Reply Obj. 3: The sense of sight is the most excellent of all the senses, and covers a larger
ground, as stated in Metaph. i: and so its name is transferred to all the other senses, and
even to the inner apprehensions, as Augustine states (De Verb. Dom., serm. xxxiii).

Reply Obj. 4: Avoidance of evil is caused by the appetite for good, as stated above (Q. 25,
A. 2; Q. 39, A. 2); and so those passions alone are mentioned which incline to good, as being
the causes of those which cause inordinately the avoidance of evil.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 6]

Whether Sin Is Alleviated on Account of a Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin is not alleviated on account of passion. For increase of
cause adds to the effect: thus if a hot thing causes something to melt, a hotter will do so
yet more. Now passion is a cause of sin, as stated (A. 5). Therefore the more intense the passion,
the greater the sin. Therefore passion does not diminish sin, but increases it.

Obj. 2: Further, a good passion stands in the same relation to merit, as an evil passion does
to sin. Now a good passion increases merit: for a man seems to merit the more, according as
he is moved by a greater pity to help a poor man. Therefore an evil passion also increases
rather than diminishes a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, a man seems to sin the more grievously, according as he sins with a more intense
will. But the passion that impels the will makes it tend with greater intensity to the sinful
act. Therefore passion aggravates a sin.

On the contrary, The passion of concupiscence is called a temptation of the flesh. But the
greater the temptation that overcomes a man, the less grievous his sin, as Augustine states
(De Civ. Dei iv, 12).

I answer that, Sin consists essentially in an act of the free will, which is a faculty of the
will and reason; while passion is a movement of the sensitive appetite. Now the sensitive appetite
can be related to the free-will, antecedently and consequently: antecedently, according as
a passion of the sensitive appetite draws or inclines the reason or will, as stated above (AA.
1, 2; Q. 10, A. 3); and consequently, in so far as the movements of the higher powers redound
on to the lower, since it is not possible for the will to be moved to anything intensely, without
a passion being aroused in the sensitive appetite.

Accordingly if we take passion as preceding the sinful act, it must needs diminish the sin:
because the act is a sin in so far as it is voluntary, and under our control. Now a thing is
said to be under our control, through the reason and will: and therefore the more the reason
and will do anything of their own accord, and not through the impulse of a passion, the more
is it voluntary and under our control. In this respect passion diminishes sin, in so far as
it diminishes its voluntariness.

On the other hand, a consequent passion does not diminish a sin, but increases it; or rather
it is a sign of its gravity, in so far, to wit, as it shows the intensity of the will towards
the sinful act; and so it is true that the greater the pleasure or the concupiscence with which
anyone sins, the greater the sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Passion is the cause of sin on the part of that to which the sinner turns. But
the gravity of a sin is measured on the part of that from which he turns, which results accidentally
from his turning to something else--accidentally, i.e. beside his intention. Now an effect
is increased by the increase, not of its accidental cause, but of its direct cause.

Reply Obj. 2: A good passion consequent to the judgment of reason increases merit; but if it
precede, so that a man is moved to do well, rather by his passion than by the judgment of his
reason, such a passion diminishes the goodness and praiseworthiness of his action.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the movement of the will incited by the passion is more intense, yet
it is not so much the will's own movement, as if it were moved to sin by the reason alone.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 7]

Whether Passion Excuses from Sin Altogether?

Objection 1: It would seem that passion excuses from sin altogether. For whatever causes an
act to be involuntary, excuses from sin altogether. But concupiscence of the flesh, which is
a passion, makes an act to be involuntary, according to Gal. 5:17: "The flesh lusteth against
the spirit . . . so that you do not the things that you would." Therefore passion excuses from
sin altogether.

Obj. 2: Further, passion causes a certain ignorance of a particular matter, as stated above
(A. 2; Q. 76, A. 3). But ignorance of a particular matter excuses from sin altogether, as stated
above (Q. 6, A. 8). Therefore passion excuses from sin altogether.

Obj. 3: Further, disease of the soul is graver than disease of the body. But bodily disease
excuses from sin altogether, as in the case of mad people. Much more, therefore, does passion,
which is a disease of the soul.

On the contrary, The Apostle (Rom. 7:5) speaks of the passions as "passions of sins," for no
other reason than that they cause sin: which would not be the case if they excused from sin
altogether. Therefore passion does not excuse from sin altogether.

I answer that, An act which, in its genus, is evil, cannot be excused from sin altogether,
unless it be rendered altogether involuntary. Consequently, if the passion be such that it
renders the subsequent act wholly involuntary, it entirely excuses from sin; otherwise, it
does not excuse entirely. In this matter two points apparently should be observed: first, that
a thing may be voluntary either in itself, as when the will tends towards it directly; or in
its cause, when the will tends towards that cause and not towards the effect; as is the case
with one who wilfully gets drunk, for in that case he is considered to do voluntarily whatever
he does through being drunk. Secondly, we must observe that a thing is said to be voluntary
"directly" or "indirectly"; directly, if the will tends towards it; indirectly, if the will
could have prevented it, but did not.

Accordingly therefore we must make a distinction: because a passion is sometimes so strong
as to take away the use of reason altogether, as in the case of those who are mad through love
or anger; and then if such a passion were voluntary from the beginning, the act is reckoned
a sin, because it is voluntary in its cause, as we have stated with regard to drunkenness.
If, however, the cause be not voluntary but natural, for instance, if anyone through sickness
or some such cause fall into such a passion as deprives him of the use of reason, his act is
rendered wholly involuntary, and he is entirely excused from sin. Sometimes, however, the passion
is not such as to take away the use of reason altogether; and then reason can drive the passion
away, by turning to other thoughts, or it can prevent it from having its full effect; since
the members are not put to work, except by the consent of reason, as stated above (Q. 17, A.
9): wherefore such a passion does not excuse from sin altogether.

Reply Obj. 1: The words, "So that you do not the things that you would" are not to be referred
to outward deeds, but to the inner movement of concupiscence; for a man would wish never to
desire evil, in which sense we are to understand the words of Rom. 7:19: "The evil which I
will not, that I do." Or again they may be referred to the will as preceding the passion, as
is the case with the incontinent, who act counter to their resolution on account of their concupiscence.

Reply Obj. 2: The particular ignorance which excuses altogether, is ignorance of a circumstance,
which a man is unable to know even after taking due precautions. But passion causes ignorance
of law in a particular case, by preventing universal knowledge from being applied to a particular
act, which passion the reason is able to drive away, as stated.

Reply Obj. 3: Bodily disease is involuntary: there would be a comparison, however, if it were
voluntary, as we have stated about drunkenness, which is a kind of bodily disease.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 77, Art. 8]

Whether a Sin Committed Through Passion Can Be Mortal?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin committed through passion cannot be mortal. Because venial
sin is condivided with mortal sin. Now sin committed from weakness is venial, since it has
in itself a motive for pardon (venia). Since therefore sin committed through passion is a sin
of weakness, it seems that it cannot be mortal.

Obj. 2: Further, the cause is more powerful than its effect. But passion cannot be a mortal
sin, for there is no mortal sin in the sensuality, as stated above (Q. 74, A. 4). Therefore
a sin committed through passion cannot be mortal.

Obj. 3: Further, passion is a hindrance to reason, as explained above (AA. 1, 2). Now it belongs
to the reason to turn to God, or to turn away from Him, which is the essence of a mortal sin.
Therefore a sin committed through passion cannot be mortal.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 7:5) that "the passions of the sins . . . work [Vulg.:
'did work'] in our members to bring forth fruit unto death." Now it is proper to mortal sin
to bring forth fruit unto death. Therefore sin committed through passion may be mortal.

I answer that, Mortal sin, as stated above (Q. 72, A. 5), consists in turning away from our
last end which is God, which aversion pertains to the deliberating reason, whose function it
is also to direct towards the end. Therefore that which is contrary to the last end can happen
not to be a mortal sin, only when the deliberating reason is unable to come to the rescue,
which is the case in sudden movements. Now when anyone proceeds from passion to a sinful act,
or to a deliberate consent, this does not happen suddenly: and so the deliberating reason can
come to the rescue here, since it can drive the passion away, or at least prevent it from having
its effect, as stated above: wherefore if it does not come to the rescue, there is a mortal
sin; and it is thus, as we see, that many murders and adulteries are committed through passion.

Reply Obj. 1: A sin may be venial in three ways. First, through its cause, i.e. through having
cause to be forgiven, which cause lessens the sin; thus a sin that is committed through weakness
or ignorance is said to be venial. Secondly, through its issue; thus every sin, through repentance,
becomes venial, i.e. receives pardon (veniam). Thirdly, by its genus, e.g. an idle word. This
is the only kind of venial sin that is opposed to mortal sin: whereas the objection regards
the first kind.

Reply Obj. 2: Passion causes sin as regards the adherence to something. But that this be a
mortal sin regards the aversion, which follows accidentally from the adherence, as stated above
(A. 6, ad 1): hence the argument does not prove.

Reply Obj. 3: Passion does not always hinder the act of reason altogether: consequently the
reason remains in possession of its free-will, so as to turn away from God, or turn to Him.
If, however, the use of reason be taken away altogether, the sin is no longer either mortal
or venial.

QUESTION 78

OF THAT CAUSE OF SIN WHICH IS MALICE (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the cause of sin on the part of the will, viz. malice: and under this
head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it is possible for anyone to sin through certain malice, i.e. purposely?

(2) Whether everyone that sins through habit, sins through certain malice?

(3) Whether every one that sins through certain malice, sins through habit?

(4) Whether it is more grievous to sin through certain malice, than through passion?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 78, Art. 1]

Whether Anyone Sins Through Certain Malice?

Objection 1: It would seem that no one sins purposely, or through certain malice. Because ignorance
is opposed to purpose or certain malice. Now "every evil man is ignorant," according to the
Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 1); and it is written (Prov. 14:22): "They err that work evil." Therefore
no one sins through certain malice.

Obj. 2: Further, Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "no one works intending evil." Now to sin
through malice seems to denote the intention of doing evil [*Alluding to the derivation of
malitia (malice) from malum (evil)] in sinning, because an act is not denominated from that
which is unintentional and accidental. Therefore no one sins through malice.

Obj. 3: Further, malice itself is a sin. If therefore malice is a cause of sin, it follows
that sin goes on causing sin indefinitely, which is absurd. Therefore no one sins through malice.

On the contrary, It is written (Job 34:27): "[Who] as it were on purpose have revolted from
God [Vulg.: 'Him'], and would not understand all His ways." Now to revolt from God is to sin.
Therefore some sin purposely or through certain malice.

I answer that, Man like any other being has naturally an appetite for the good; and so if his
appetite incline away to evil, this is due to corruption or disorder in some one of the principles
of man: for it is thus that sin occurs in the actions of natural things. Now the principles
of human acts are the intellect, and the appetite, both rational (i.e. the will) and sensitive.
Therefore even as sin occurs in human acts, sometimes through a defect of the intellect, as
when anyone sins through ignorance, and sometimes through a defect in the sensitive appetite,
as when anyone sins through passion, so too does it occur through a defect consisting in a
disorder of the will. Now the will is out of order when it loves more the lesser good. Again,
the consequence of loving a thing less is that one chooses to suffer some hurt in its regard,
in order to obtain a good that one loves more: as when a man, even knowingly, suffers the loss
of a limb, that he may save his life which he loves more. Accordingly when an inordinate will
loves some temporal good, e.g. riches or pleasure, more than the order of reason or Divine
law, or Divine charity, or some such thing, it follows that it is willing to suffer the loss
of some spiritual good, so that it may obtain possession of some temporal good. Now evil is
merely the privation of some good; and so a man wishes knowingly a spiritual evil, which is
evil simply, whereby he is deprived of a spiritual good, in order to possess a temporal good:
wherefore he is said to sin through certain malice or on purpose, because he chooses evil knowingly.

Reply Obj. 1: Ignorance sometimes excludes the simple knowledge that a particular action is
evil, and then man is said to sin through ignorance: sometimes it excludes the knowledge that
a particular action is evil at this particular moment, as when he sins through passion: and
sometimes it excludes the knowledge that a particular evil is not to be suffered for the sake
of possessing a particular good, but not the simple knowledge that it is an evil: it is thus
that a man is ignorant, when he sins through certain malice.

Reply Obj. 2: Evil cannot be intended by anyone for its own sake; but it can be intended for
the sake of avoiding another evil, or obtaining another good, as stated above: and in this
case anyone would choose to obtain a good intended for its own sake, without suffering loss
of the other good; even as a lustful man would wish to enjoy a pleasure without offending God;
but with the two set before him to choose from, he prefers sinning and thereby incurring God's
anger, to being deprived of the pleasure.

Reply Obj. 3: The malice through which anyone sins, may be taken to denote habitual malice,
in the sense in which the Philosopher (Ethic. v, 1) calls an evil habit by the name of malice,
just as a good habit is called virtue: and in this way anyone is said to sin through malice
when he sins through the inclination of a habit. It may also denote actual malice, whether
by malice we mean the choice itself of evil (and thus anyone is said to sin through malice,
in so far as he sins through making a choice of evil), or whether by malice we mean some previous
fault that gives rise to a subsequent fault, as when anyone impugns the grace of his brother
through envy. Nor does this imply that a thing is its own cause: for the interior act is the
cause of the exterior act, and one sin is the cause of another; not indefinitely, however,
since we can trace it back to some previous sin, which is not caused by any previous sin, as
was explained above (Q. 75, A. 4, ad 3).

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 78, Art. 2]

Whether Everyone That Sins Through Habit, Sins Through Certain Malice?

Objection 1: It would seem that not every one who sins through habit, sins through certain
malice. Because sin committed through certain malice, seems to be most grievous. Now it happens
sometimes that a man commits a slight sin through habit, as when he utters an idle word. Therefore
sin committed from habit is not always committed through certain malice.

Obj. 2: Further, "Acts proceeding from habits are like the acts by which those habits were
formed" (Ethic. ii, 1, 2). But the acts which precede a vicious habit are not committed through
certain malice. Therefore the sins that arise from habit are not committed through certain malice.

Obj. But those who sin through habit, are sorrowful after committing a sin: because "bad men,"
i.e. those who have a vicious habit, "are full of remorse" (Ethic. ix, 4). Therefore sins that
arise from habit are not committed through certain malice.

On the contrary, A sin committed through certain malice is one that is done through choice
of evil. Now we make choice of those things to which we are inclined by habit, as stated in
Ethic. vi, 2 with regard to virtuous habits. Therefore a sin that arises from habit is committed
through certain malice.

I answer that, There is a difference between a sin committed by one who has the habit, and
a sin committed by habit: for it is not necessary to use a habit, since it is subject to the
will of the person who has that habit. Hence habit is defined as being "something we use when
we will," as stated above (Q. 50, A. 1). And thus, even as it may happen that one who has a
vicious habit may break forth into a virtuous act, because a bad habit does not corrupt reason
altogether, something of which remains unimpaired, the result being that a sinner does some
works which are generically good; so too it may happen sometimes that one who has a vicious
habit, acts, not from that habit, but through the uprising of a passion, or again through ignorance.
But whenever he uses the vicious habit he must needs sin through certain malice: because to
anyone that has a habit, whatever is befitting to him in respect of that habit, has the aspect
of something lovable, since it thereby becomes, in a way, connatural to him, according as custom
and habit are a second nature. Now the very thing which befits a man in respect of a vicious
habit, is something that excludes a spiritual good: the result being that a man chooses a spiritual
evil, that he may obtain possession of what befits him in respect of that habit: and this is
to sin through certain malice. Wherefore it is evident that whoever sins through habit, sins
through certain malice.

Reply Obj. 1: Venial sin does not exclude spiritual good, consisting in the grace of God or
charity. Wherefore it is an evil, not simply, but in a relative sense: and for that reason
the habit thereof is not a simple but a relative evil.

Reply Obj. 2: Acts proceeding from habits are of like species as the acts from which those
habits were formed: but they differ from them as perfect from imperfect. Such is the difference
between sin committed through certain malice and sin committed through passion.

Reply Obj. 3: He that sins through habit is always glad for what he does through habit, as
long as he uses the habit. But since he is able not to use the habit, and to think of something
else, by means of his reason, which is not altogether corrupted, it may happen that while not
using the habit he is sorry for what he has done through the habit. And so it often happens
that such a man is sorry for his sin not because sin in itself is displeasing to him, but on
account of his reaping some disadvantage from the sin.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 78, Art. 3]

Whether One Who Sins Through Certain Malice, Sins Through Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that whoever sins through certain malice, sins through habit. For
the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 9) that "an unjust action is not done as an unjust man does
it," i.e. through choice, "unless it be done through habit." Now to sin through certain malice
is to sin through making a choice of evil, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore no one sins through
certain malice, unless he has the habit of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, Origen says (Peri Archon iii) that "a man is not suddenly ruined and lost,
but must needs fall away little by little." But the greatest fall seems to be that of the man
who sins through certain malice. Therefore a man comes to sin through certain malice, not from
the outset, but from inveterate custom, which may engender a habit.

Obj. 3: Further, whenever a man sins through certain malice, his will must needs be inclined
of itself to the evil he chooses. But by the nature of that power man is inclined, not to evil
but to good. Therefore if he chooses evil, this must be due to something supervening, which
is passion or habit. Now when a man sins through passion, he sins not through certain malice,
but through weakness, as stated (Q. 77, A. 3). Therefore whenever anyone sins through certain
malice, he sins through habit.

On the contrary, The good habit stands in the same relation to the choice of something good,
as the bad habit to the choice of something evil. But it happens sometimes that a man, without
having the habit of a virtue, chooses that which is good according to that virtue. Therefore
sometimes also a man, without having the habit of a vice, may choose evil, which is to sin
through certain malice.

I answer that, The will is related differently to good and to evil. Because from the very nature
of the power, it is inclined to the rational good, as its proper object; wherefore every sin
is said to be contrary to nature. Hence, if a will be inclined, by its choice, to some evil,
this must be occasioned by something else. Sometimes, in fact, this is occasioned through some
defect in the reason, as when anyone sins through ignorance; and sometimes this arises through
the impulse of the sensitive appetite, as when anyone sins through passion. Yet neither of
these amounts to a sin through certain malice; for then alone does anyone sin through certain
malice, when his will is moved to evil of its own accord. This may happen in two ways. First,
through his having a corrupt disposition inclining him to evil, so that, in respect of that
disposition, some evil is, as it were, suitable and similar to him; and to this thing, by reason
of its suitableness, the will tends, as to something good, because everything tends, of its
own accord, to that which is suitable to it. Moreover this corrupt disposition is either a
habit acquired by custom, or a sickly condition on the part of the body, as in the case of
a man who is naturally inclined to certain sins, by reason of some natural corruption in himself.
Secondly, the will, of its own accord, may tend to an evil, through the removal of some obstacle:
for instance, if a man be prevented from sinning, not through sin being in itself displeasing
to him, but through hope of eternal life, or fear of hell, if hope give place to despair, or
fear to presumption, he will end in sinning through certain malice, being freed from the bridle,
as it were.

It is evident, therefore, that sin committed through certain malice, always presupposes some
inordinateness in man, which, however, is not always a habit: so that it does not follow of
necessity, if a man sins through certain malice, that he sins through habit.

Reply Obj. 1: To do an action as an unjust man does, may be not only to do unjust things through
certain malice, but also to do them with pleasure, and without any notable resistance on the
part of reason, and this occurs only in one who has a habit.

Reply Obj. 2: It is true that a man does not fall suddenly into sin from certain malice, and
that something is presupposed; but this something is not always a habit, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: That which inclines the will to evil, is not always a habit or a passion, but
at times is something else. Moreover, there is no comparison between choosing good and choosing
evil: because evil is never without some good of nature, whereas good can be perfect without
the evil of fault.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 78, Art. 4]

Whether It Is More Grievous to Sin Through Certain Malice Than Through Passion?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is not more grievous to sin through certain malice than
through passion. Because ignorance excuses from sin either altogether or in part. Now ignorance
is greater in one who sins through certain malice, than in one who sins through passion; since
he that sins through certain malice suffers from the worst form of ignorance, which according
to the Philosopher (Ethic. vii, 8) is ignorance of principle, for he has a false estimation
of the end, which is the principle in matters of action. Therefore there is more excuse for
one who sins through certain malice, than for one who sins through passion.

Obj. 2: Further, the more a man is impelled to sin, the less grievous his sin, as is clear
with regard to a man who is thrown headlong into sin by a more impetuous passion. Now he that
sins through certain malice, is impelled by habit, the impulse of which is stronger than that
of passion. Therefore to sin through habit is less grievous than to sin through passion.

Obj. 3: Further, to sin through certain malice is to sin through choosing evil. Now he that
sins through passion, also chooses evil. Therefore he does not sin less than the man who sins
through certain malice.

On the contrary, A sin that is committed on purpose, for this very reason deserves heavier
punishment, according to Job 34:26: "He hath struck them as being wicked, in open sight, who,
as it were, on purpose, have revolted from Him." Now punishment is not increased except for
a graver fault. Therefore a sin is aggravated through being done on purpose, i.e. through certain
malice.

I answer that, A sin committed through malice is more grievous than a sin committed through
passion, for three reasons. First, because, as sin consists chiefly in an act of the will,
it follows that, other things being equal, a sin is all the more grievous, according as the
movement of the sin belongs more to the will. Now when a sin is committed through malice, the
movement of sin belongs more to the will, which is then moved to evil of its own accord, than
when a sin is committed through passion, when the will is impelled to sin by something extrinsic,
as it were. Wherefore a sin is aggravated by the very fact that it is committed through certain
malice, and so much the more, as the malice is greater; whereas it is diminished by being committed
through passion, and so much the more, as the passion is stronger. Secondly, because the passion
which incites the will to sin, soon passes away, so that man repents of his sin, and soon returns
to his good intentions; whereas the habit, through which a man sins, is a permanent quality,
so that he who sins through malice, abides longer in his sin. For this reason the Philosopher
(Ethic. vii, 8) compares the intemperate man, who sins through malice, to a sick man who suffers
from a chronic disease, while he compares the incontinent man, who sins through passion, to
one who suffers intermittently. Thirdly, because he who sins through certain malice is ill-disposed
in respect of the end itself, which is the principle in matters of action; and so the defect
is more dangerous than in the case of the man who sins through passion, whose purpose tends
to a good end, although this purpose is interrupted on account of the passion, for the time
being. Now the worst of all defects is defect of principle. Therefore it is evident that a
sin committed through malice is more grievous than one committed through passion.

Reply Obj. 1: Ignorance of choice, to which the objection refers, neither excuses nor diminishes
a sin, as stated above (Q. 76, A. 4). Therefore neither does a greater ignorance of the kind
make a sin to be less grave.

Reply Obj. 2: The impulse due to passion, is, as it were, due to a defect which is outside
the will: whereas, by a habit, the will is inclined from within. Hence the comparison fails.

Reply Obj. 3: It is one thing to sin while choosing, and another to sin through choosing. For
he that sins through passion, sins while choosing, but not through choosing, because his choosing
is not for him the first principle of his sin; for he is induced through the passion, to choose
what he would not choose, were it not for the passion. On the other hand, he that sins through
certain malice, chooses evil of his own accord, in the way already explained (AA. 2, 3), so
that his choosing, of which he has full control, is the principle of his sin: and for this
reason he is said to sin "through" choosing.

QUESTION 79

OF THE EXTERNAL CAUSES OF SIN (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the external causes of sin, and (1) on the part of God; (2) on the part
of the devil; (3) on the part of man.

Under the first head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God is a cause of sin?

(2) Whether the act of sin is from God?

(3) Whether God is the cause of spiritual blindness and hardness of heart?

(4) Whether these things are directed to the salvation of those who are blinded or hardened?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 79, Art. 1]

Whether God Is a Cause of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that God is a cause of sin. For the Apostle says of certain ones
(Rom. 1:28): "God delivered them up to a reprobate sense, to do those things which are not
right [Douay: 'convenient']," and a gloss comments on this by saying that "God works in men's
hearts, by inclining their wills to whatever He wills, whether to good or to evil." Now sin
consists in doing what is not right, and in having a will inclined to evil. Therefore God is
to man a cause of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Wis. 14:11): "The creatures of God are turned to an abomination;
and a temptation to the souls of men." But a temptation usually denotes a provocation to sin.
Since therefore creatures were made by God alone, as was established in the First Part (Q.
44, A. 1), it seems that God is a cause of sin, by provoking man to sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the cause of the cause is the cause of the effect. Now God is the cause of
the free-will, which itself is the cause of sin. Therefore God is the cause of sin.

Obj. 4: Further, every evil is opposed to good. But it is not contrary to God's goodness that
He should cause the evil of punishment; since of this evil it is written (Isa. 45:7) that God
creates evil, and (Amos 3:6): "Shall there be evil in the city which God [Vulg.: 'the Lord']
hath not done?" Therefore it is not incompatible with God's goodness that He should cause the
evil of fault.

On the contrary, It is written (Wis. 11:25): "Thou . . . hatest none of the things which Thou
hast made." Now God hates sin, according to Wis. 14:9: "To God the wicked and his wickedness
are hateful." Therefore God is not a cause of sin.

I answer that, Man is, in two ways, a cause either of his own or of another's sin. First, directly,
namely by inclining his or another's will to sin; secondly, indirectly, namely by not preventing
someone from sinning. Hence (Ezech. 3:18) it is said to the watchman: "If thou say not to the
wicked: 'Thou shalt surely die' [*Vulg.: "If, when I say to the wicked, 'Thou shalt surely
die,' thou declare it not to him."] . . . I will require his blood at thy hand." Now God cannot
be directly the cause of sin, either in Himself or in another, since every sin is a departure
from the order which is to God as the end: whereas God inclines and turns all things to Himself
as to their last end, as Dionysius states (Div. Nom. i): so that it is impossible that He should
be either to Himself or to another the cause of departing from the order which is to Himself.
Therefore He cannot be directly the cause of sin. In like manner neither can He cause sin indirectly.
For it happens that God does not give some the assistance, whereby they may avoid sin, which
assistance were He to give, they would not sin. But He does all this according to the order
of His wisdom and justice, since He Himself is Wisdom and Justice: so that if someone sin it
is not imputable to Him as though He were the cause of that sin; even as a pilot is not said
to cause the wrecking of the ship, through not steering the ship, unless he cease to steer
while able and bound to steer. It is therefore evident that God is nowise a cause of sin.

Reply Obj. 1: As to the words of the Apostle, the solution is clear from the text. For if God
delivered some up to a reprobate sense, it follows that they already had a reprobate sense,
so as to do what was not right. Accordingly He is said to deliver them up to a reprobate sense,
in so far as He does not hinder them from following that reprobate sense, even as we are said
to expose a person to danger if we do not protect him. The saying of Augustine (De Grat. et
Lib. Arb. xxi, whence the gloss quoted is taken) to the effect that "God inclines men's wills
to good and evil," is to be understood as meaning that He inclines the will directly to good;
and to evil, in so far as He does not hinder it, as stated above. And yet even this is due
as being deserved through a previous sin.

Reply Obj. 2: When it is said the "creatures of God are turned 'to' an abomination, and a temptation
to the souls of men," the preposition "to" does not denote causality but sequel [*This is made
clear by the Douay Version: the Latin "factae sunt in abominationem" admits of the translation
"were made to be an abomination," which might imply causality.]; for God did not make the creatures
that they might be an evil to man; this was the result of man's folly, wherefore the text goes
on to say, "and a snare to the feet of the unwise," who, to wit, in their folly, use creatures
for a purpose other than that for which they were made.

Reply Obj. 3: The effect which proceeds from the middle cause, according as it is subordinate
to the first cause, is reduced to that first cause; but if it proceed from the middle cause,
according as it goes outside the order of the first cause, it is not reduced to that first
cause: thus if a servant do anything contrary to his master's orders, it is not ascribed to
the master as though he were the cause thereof. In like manner sin, which the free-will commits
against the commandment of God, is not attributed to God as being its cause.

Reply Obj. 4: Punishment is opposed to the good of the person punished, who is thereby deprived
of some good or other: but fault is opposed to the good of subordination to God; and so it
is directly opposed to the Divine goodness; consequently there is no comparison between fault
and punishment.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 79, Art. 2]

Whether the Act of Sin Is from God?

Objection 1: It would seem that the act of sin is not from God. For Augustine says (De Perfect.
Justit. ii) that "the act of sin is not a thing." Now whatever is from God is a thing. Therefore
the act of sin is not from God.

Obj. 2: Further, man is not said to be the cause of sin, except because he is the cause of
the sinful act: for "no one works, intending evil," as Dionysius states (Div. Nom. iv). Now
God is not a cause of sin, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore God is not the cause of the act
of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, some actions are evil and sinful in their species, as was shown above (Q.
18, AA. 2, 8). Now whatever is the cause of a thing, causes whatever belongs to it in respect
of its species. If therefore God caused the act of sin, He would be the cause of sin, which
is false, as was proved above (A. 1). Therefore God is not the cause of the act of sin.

On the contrary, The act of sin is a movement of the free-will. Now "the will of God is the
cause of every movement," as Augustine declares (De Trin. iii, 4, 9). Therefore God's will
is the cause of the act of sin.

I answer that, The act of sin is both a being and an act; and in both respects it is from God.
Because every being, whatever the mode of its being, must be derived from the First Being,
as Dionysius declares (Div. Nom. v). Again every action is caused by something existing in
act, since nothing produces an action save in so far as it is in act; and every being in act
is reduced to the First Act, viz. God, as to its cause, Who is act by His Essence. Therefore
God is the cause of every action, in so far as it is an action. But sin denotes a being and
an action with a defect: and this defect is from the created cause, viz. the free-will, as
falling away from the order of the First Agent, viz. God. Consequently this defect is not reduced
to God as its cause, but to the free-will: even as the defect of limping is reduced to a crooked
leg as its cause, but not to the motive power, which nevertheless causes whatever there is
of movement in the limping. Accordingly God is the cause of the act of sin: and yet He is not
the cause of sin, because He does not cause the act to have a defect.

Reply Obj. 1: In this passage Augustine calls by the name of "thing," that which is a thing
simply, viz. substance; for in this sense the act of sin is not a thing.

Reply Obj. 2: Not only the act, but also the defect, is reduced to man as its cause, which
defect consists in man not being subject to Whom he ought to be, although he does not intend
this principally. Wherefore man is the cause of the sin: while God is the cause of the act,
in such a way, that nowise is He the cause of the defect accompanying the act, so that He is
not the cause of the sin.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 72, A. 1), acts and habits do not take their species from
the privation itself, wherein consists the nature of evil, but from some object, to which that
privation is united: and so this defect which consists in not being from God, belongs to the
species of the act consequently, and not as a specific difference.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 79, Art. 3]

Whether God Is the Cause of Spiritual Blindness and Hardness of Heart?

Objection 1: It would seem that God is not the cause of spiritual blindness and hardness of
heart. For Augustine says (Qq. lxxxiii, qu. 3) that God is not the cause of that which makes
man worse. Now man is made worse by spiritual blindness and hardness of heart. Therefore God
is not the cause of spiritual blindness and hardness of heart.

Obj. 2: Further, Fulgentius says (De Dupl. Praedest. i, 19): "God does not punish what He causes."
Now God punishes the hardened heart, according to Ecclus. 3:27: "A hard heart shall fear evil
at the last." Therefore God is not the cause of hardness of heart.

Obj. 3: Further, the same effect is not put down to contrary causes. But the cause of spiritual
blindness is said to be the malice of man, according to Wis. 2:21: "For their own malice blinded
them," and again, according to 2 Cor. 4:4: "The god of this world hath blinded the minds of
unbelievers": which causes seem to be opposed to God. Therefore God is not the cause of spiritual
blindness and hardness of heart.

On the contrary, It is written (Isa. 6:10): "Blind the heart of this people, and make their
ears heavy," and Rom. 9:18: "He hath mercy on whom He will, and whom He will He hardeneth."

I answer that, Spiritual blindness and hardness of heart imply two things. One is the movement
of the human mind in cleaving to evil, and turning away from the Divine light; and as regards
this, God is not the cause of spiritual blindness and hardness of heart, just as He is not
the cause of sin. The other thing is the withdrawal of grace, the result of which is that the
mind is not enlightened by God to see aright, and man's heart is not softened to live aright;
and as regards this God is the cause of spiritual blindness and hardness of heart.

Now we must consider that God is the universal cause of the enlightening of souls, according
to John 1:9: "That was the true light which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world,"
even as the sun is the universal cause of the enlightening of bodies, though not in the same
way; for the sun enlightens by necessity of nature, whereas God works freely, through the order
of His wisdom. Now although the sun, so far as it is concerned, enlightens all bodies, yet
if it be encountered by an obstacle in a body, it leaves it in darkness, as happens to a house
whose window-shutters are closed, although the sun is in no way the cause of the house being
darkened, since it does not act of its own accord in failing to light up the interior of the
house; and the cause of this is the person who closed the shutters. On the other hand, God,
of His own accord, withholds His grace from those in whom He finds an obstacle: so that the
cause of grace being withheld is not only the man who raises an obstacle to grace; but God,
Who, of His own accord, withholds His grace. In this way, God is the cause of spiritual blindness,
deafness of ear, and hardness of heart.

These differ from one another in respect of the effects of grace, which both perfects the intellect
by the gift of wisdom, and softens the affections by the fire of charity. And since two of
the senses excel in rendering service to the intellect, viz. sight and hearing, of which the
former assists "discovery," and the latter, "teaching," hence it is that spiritual "blindness"
corresponds to sight, "heaviness of the ears" to hearing, and "hardness of heart" to the affections.

Reply Obj. 1: Blindness and hardheartedness, as regards the withholding of grace, are punishments,
and therefore, in this respect, they make man no worse. It is because he is already worsened
by sin that he incurs them, even as other punishments.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument considers hardheartedness in so far as it is a sin.

Reply Obj. 3: Malice is the demeritorious cause of blindness, just as sin is the cause of punishment:
and in this way too, the devil is said to blind, in so far as he induces man to sin.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 79, Art. 4]

Whether Blindness and Hardness of Heart Are Directed to the Salvation of Those Who Are Blinded
and Hardened?

Objection 1: It would seem that blindness and hardness of heart are always directed to the
salvation of those who are blinded and hardened. For Augustine says (Enchiridion xi) that "as
God is supremely good, He would nowise allow evil to be done, unless He could draw some good
from every evil." Much more, therefore, does He direct to some good, the evil of which He Himself
is the cause. Now God is the cause of blindness and hardness of heart, as stated above (A.
3). Therefore they are directed to the salvation of those who are blinded and hardened.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Wis. 1:13) that "God hath no pleasure in the destruction of
the ungodly [*Vulg.: 'God made not death, neither hath He pleasure in the destruction of the
living.']." Now He would seem to take pleasure in their destruction, if He did not turn their
blindness to their profit: just as a physician would seem to take pleasure in torturing the
invalid, if he did not intend to heal the invalid when he prescribes a bitter medicine for
him. Therefore God turns blindness to the profit of those who are blinded.

Obj. 3: Further, "God is not a respecter of persons" (Acts 10:34). Now He directs the blinding
of some, to their salvation, as in the case of some of the Jews, who were blinded so as not
to believe in Christ, and, through not believing, to slay Him, and afterwards were seized with
compunction, and converted, as related by Augustine (De Quaest. Evang. iii). Therefore God
turns all blindness to the spiritual welfare of those who are blinded.

Obj. 4: On the other hand, according to Rom. 3:8, evil should not be done, that good may ensue.
Now blindness is an evil. Therefore God does not blind some for the sake of their welfare.

I answer that, Blindness is a kind of preamble to sin. Now sin has a twofold relation--to one
thing directly, viz. to the sinner's damnation--to another, by reason of God's mercy or providence,
viz. that the sinner may be healed, in so far as God permits some to fall into sin, that by
acknowledging their sin, they may be humbled and converted, as Augustine states (De Nat. et
Grat. xxii). Therefore blindness, of its very nature, is directed to the damnation of those
who are blinded; for which reason it is accounted an effect of reprobation. But, through God's
mercy, temporary blindness is directed medicinally to the spiritual welfare of those who are
blinded. This mercy, however, is not vouchsafed to all those who are blinded, but only to the
predestinated, to whom "all things work together unto good" (Rom. 8:28). Therefore as regards
some, blindness is directed to their healing; but as regards others, to their damnation; as
Augustine says (De Quaest. Evang. iii).

Reply Obj. 1: Every evil that God does, or permits to be done, is directed to some good; yet
not always to the good of those in whom the evil is, but sometimes to the good of others, or
of the whole universe: thus He directs the sin of tyrants to the good of the martyrs, and the
punishment of the lost to the glory of His justice.

Reply Obj. 2: God does not take pleasure in the loss of man, as regards the loss itself, but
by reason of His justice, or of the good that ensues from the loss.

Reply Obj. 3: That God directs the blindness of some to their spiritual welfare, is due to
His mercy; but that the blindness of others is directed to their loss is due to His justice:
and that He vouchsafes His mercy to some, and not to all, does not make God a respecter of
persons, as explained in the First Part (Q. 23, A. 5, ad 3).

Reply Obj. 4: Evil of fault must not be done, that good may ensue; but evil of punishment must
be inflicted for the sake of good.

QUESTION 80

OF THE CAUSE OF SIN, AS REGARDS THE DEVIL (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the cause of sin, as regards the devil; and under this head there are
four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the devil is directly the cause of sin?

(2) Whether the devil induces us to sin, by persuading us inwardly?

(3) Whether he can make us sin of necessity?

(4) Whether all sins are due to the devil's suggestion?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 80, Art. 1]

Whether the Devil Is Directly the Cause of Man's Sinning?

Objection 1: It would seem that the devil is directly the cause of man's sinning. For sin consists
directly in an act of the appetite. Now Augustine says (De Trin. iv, 12) that "the devil inspires
his friends with evil desires"; and Bede, commenting on Acts 5:3, says that the devil "draws
the mind to evil desires"; and Isidore says (De Summo Bono ii, 41; iii, 5) that the devil "fills
men's hearts with secret lusts." Therefore the devil is directly the cause of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, Jerome says (Contra Jovin. ii, 2) that "as God is the perfecter of good, so
is the devil the perfecter of evil." But God is directly the cause of our good. Therefore the
devil is directly the cause of our sins.

Obj. 3: Further, the Philosopher says in a chapter of the Eudeme[a]n Ethics (vii, 18): "There
must needs be some extrinsic principle of human counsel." Now human counsel is not only about
good things but also about evil things. Therefore, as God moves man to take good counsel, and
so is the cause of good, so the devil moves him to take evil counsel, and consequently is directly
the cause of sin.

On the contrary, Augustine proves (De Lib. Arb. i, 11) that "nothing else than his own will
makes man's mind the slave of his desire." Now man does not become a slave to his desires,
except through sin. Therefore the cause of sin cannot be the devil, but man's own will alone.

I answer that, Sin is an action: so that a thing can be directly the cause of sin, in the same
way as anyone is directly the cause of an action; and this can only happen by moving that action's
proper principle to act. Now the proper principle of a sinful action is the will, since every
sin is voluntary. Consequently nothing can be directly the cause of sin, except that which
can move the will to act.

Now the will, as stated above (Q. 9, AA. 3, 4, 6), can be moved by two things: first by its
object, inasmuch as the apprehended appetible is said to move the appetite: secondly by that
agent which moves the will inwardly to will, and this is no other than the will itself, or
God, as was shown above (Q. 9, AA. 3, 4, 6). Now God cannot be the cause of sin, as stated
above (Q. 79, A. 1). Therefore it follows that in this respect, a man's will alone is directly
the cause of his sin.

As regards the object, a thing may be understood as moving the will in three ways. First, the
object itself which is proposed to the will: thus we say that food arouses man's desire to
eat. Secondly, he that proposes or offers this object. Thirdly, he that persuades the will
that the object proposed has an aspect of good, because he also, in a fashion, offers the will
its proper object, which is a real or apparent good of reason. Accordingly, in the first way
the sensible things, which approach from without, move a man's will to sin. In the second and
third ways, either the devil or a man may incite to sin, either by offering an object of appetite
to the senses, or by persuading the reason. But in none of these three ways can anything be
the direct cause of sin, because the will is not, of necessity, moved by any object except
the last end, as stated above (Q. 10, AA. 1, 2). Consequently neither the thing offered from
without, nor he that proposes it, nor he that persuades, is the sufficient cause of sin. Therefore
it follows that the devil is a cause of sin, neither directly nor sufficiently, but only by
persuasion, or by proposing the object of appetite.

Reply Obj. 1: All these, and other like authorities, if we meet with them, are to be understood
as denoting that the devil induces man to affection for a sin, either by suggesting to him,
or by offering him objects of appetite.

Reply Obj. 2: This comparison is true in so far as the devil is somewhat the cause of our sins,
even as God is in a certain way the cause of our good actions, but does not extend to the mode
of causation: for God causes good things in us by moving the will inwardly, whereas the devil
cannot move us in this way.

Reply Obj. 3: God is the universal principle of all inward movements of man; but that the human
will be determined to an evil counsel, is directly due to the human will, and to the devil
as persuading or offering the object of appetite.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 80, Art. 2]

Whether the Devil Can Induce Man to Sin, by Internal Instigations?

Objection 1: It would seem that the devil cannot induce man to sin, by internal instigations.
Because the internal movements of the soul are vital functions. Now no vital functions can
be exercised except by an intrinsic principle, not even those of the vegetal soul, which are
the lowest of vital functions. Therefore the devil cannot instigate man to evil through his
internal movements.

Obj. 2: Further, all the internal movements arise from the external senses according to the
order of nature. Now it belongs to God alone to do anything beside the order of nature, as
was stated in the First Part (Q. 110, A. 4). Therefore the devil cannot effect anything in
man's internal movements, except in respect of things which are perceived by the external senses.

Obj. 3: Further, the internal acts of the soul are to understand and to imagine. Now the devil
can do nothing in connection with either of these, because, as stated in the First Part (Q.
111, AA. 2, 3, ad 2), the devil cannot impress species on the human intellect, nor does it
seem possible for him to produce imaginary species, since imaginary forms, being more spiritual,
are more excellent than those which are in sensible matter, which, nevertheless, the devil
is unable to produce, as is clear from what we have said in the First Part (Q. 110, A. 2; Q.
111, AA. 2, 3, ad 2). Therefore the devil cannot through man's internal movements induce him
to sin.

On the contrary, In that case, the devil would never tempt man, unless he appeared visibly;
which is evidently false.

I answer that, The interior part of the soul is intellective and sensitive; and the intellective
part contains the intellect and the will. As regards the will, we have already stated (A. 1;
I, Q. 111, A. 1) what is the devil's relation thereto. Now the intellect, of its very nature,
is moved by that which enlightens it in the knowledge of truth, which the devil has no intention
of doing in man's regard; rather does he darken man's reason so that it may consent to sin,
which darkness is due to the imagination and sensitive appetite. Consequently the operation
of the devil seems to be confined to the imagination and sensitive appetite, by moving either
of which he can induce man to sin. For his operation may result in presenting certain forms
to the imagination; and he is able to incite the sensitive appetite to some passion or other.

The reason of this is, that as stated in the First Part (Q. 110, A. 3), the corporeal nature
has a natural aptitude to be moved locally by the spiritual nature: so that the devil can produce
all those effects which can result from the local movement of bodies here below, except he
be restrained by the Divine power. Now the representation of forms to the imagination is due,
sometimes, to local movement: for the Philosopher says (De Somno et Vigil.) [*De Insomn. iii,
iv.] that "when an animal sleeps, the blood descends in abundance to the sensitive principle,
and the movements descend with it, viz. the impressions left by the action of sensible objects,
which impressions are preserved by means of sensible species, and continue to move the apprehensive
principle, so that they appear just as though the sensitive principles were being affected
by them at the time." Hence such a local movement of the vital spirits or humors can be procured
by the demons, whether man sleep or wake: and so it happens that man's imagination is brought
into play.

In like manner, the sensitive appetite is incited to certain passions according to certain
fixed movements of the heart and the vital spirits: wherefore the devil can cooperate in this
also. And through certain passions being aroused in the sensitive appetite, the result is that
man more easily perceives the movement or sensible image which is brought in the manner explained,
before the apprehensive principle, since, as the Philosopher observes (De Somno et Virgil.:
De Insomn. iii, iv), "lovers are moved, by even a slight likeness, to an apprehension of the
beloved." It also happens, through the rousing of a passion, that what is put before the imagination,
is judged, as being something to be pursued, because, to him who is held by a passion, whatever
the passion inclines him to, seems good. In this way the devil induces man inwardly to sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Although vital functions are always from an intrinsic principle, yet an extrinsic
agent can cooperate with them, even as external heat cooperates with the functions of the vegetal
soul, that food may be more easily digested.

Reply Obj. 2: This apparition of imaginary forms is not altogether outside the order of nature,
nor is it due to a command alone, but according to local movement, as explained above.

Consequently the Reply to the Third Objection is clear, because these forms are received originally
from the senses.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q, 80, Art. 3]

Whether the Devil Can Induce Man to Sin of Necessity?

Objection 1: It would seem that the devil can induce man to sin of necessity. Because the greater
can compel the lesser. Now it is said of the devil (Job 41:24) that "there is no power on earth
that can compare with him." Therefore he can compel man to sin, while he dwells on the earth.

Obj. 2: Further, man's reason cannot be moved except in respect of things that are offered
outwardly to the senses, or are represented to the imagination: because "all our knowledge
arises from the senses, and we cannot understand without a phantasm" (De Anima iii, text. 30.
39). Now the devil can move man's imagination, as stated above (A. 2); and also the external
senses, for Augustine says (Qq. lxxxiii, qu. 12) that "this evil," of which, to wit, the devil
is the cause, "extends gradually through all the approaches to the senses, it adapts itself
to shapes, blends with colors, mingles with sounds, seasons every flavor." Therefore it can
incline man's reason to sin of necessity.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xix, 4) that "there is some sin when the flesh
lusteth against the spirit." Now the devil can cause concupiscence of the flesh, even as other
passions, in the way explained above (A. 2). Therefore he can induce man to sin of necessity.

On the contrary, It is written (1 Pet. 5:8): "Your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion,
goeth about seeking whom he may devour." Now it would be useless to admonish thus, if it were
true that man were under the necessity of succumbing to the devil. Therefore he cannot induce
man to sin of necessity.

Further, it is likewise written (Jam. 4:7): "Be subject . . . to God, but resist the devil,
and he will fly from you," which would be said neither rightly nor truly, if the devil were
able to compel us, in any way whatever, to sin; for then neither would it be possible to resist
him, nor would he fly from those who do. Therefore he does not compel to sin.

I answer that, The devil, by his own power, unless he be restrained by God, can compel anyone
to do an act which, in its genus, is a sin; but he cannot bring about the necessity of sinning.
This is evident from the fact that man does not resist that which moves him to sin, except
by his reason; the use of which the devil is able to impede altogether, by moving the imagination
and the sensitive appetite; as is the case with one who is possessed. But then, the reason
being thus fettered, whatever man may do, it is not imputed to him as a sin. If, however, the
reason is not altogether fettered, then, in so far as it is free, it can resist sin, as stated
above (Q. 77, A. 7). It is consequently evident that the devil can nowise compel man to sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Not every power that is greater than man, can move man's will; God alone can
do this, as stated above (Q. 9, A. 6).

Reply Obj. 2: That which is apprehended by the senses or the imagination does not move the
will, of necessity, so long as man has the use of reason; nor does such an apprehension always
fetter the reason.

Reply Obj. 3: The lusting of the flesh against the spirit, when the reason actually resists
it, is not a sin, but is matter for the exercise of virtue. That reason does not resist, is
not in the devil's power; wherefore he cannot bring about the necessity of sinning.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 80, Art. 4]

Whether All the Sins of Men Are Due to the Devil's Suggestion?

Objection 1: It would seem that all the sins of men are due to the devil's suggestion. For
Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that the "crowd of demons are the cause of all evils, both to
themselves and to others."

Obj. 2: Further, whoever sins mortally, becomes the slave of the devil, according to John 8:34:
"Whosoever committeth sin is the slave [Douay: 'servant'] of sin." Now "by whom a man is overcome,
of the same also he is the slave" (2 Pet. 2:19). Therefore whoever commits a sin, has been
overcome by the devil.

Obj. 3: Further, Gregory says (Moral. iv, 10) the sin of the devil is irreparable, because
he sinned at no other's suggestion. Therefore, if any men were to sin of their own free-will
and without suggestion from any other, their sin would be irremediable: which is clearly false.
Therefore all the sins of men are due to the devil's suggestion.

On the contrary, It is written (De Eccl. Dogm. lxxxii): "Not all our evil thoughts are incited
by the devil; sometimes they are due to a movement of the free-will."

I answer that, the devil is the occasional and indirect cause of all our sins, in so far as
he induced the first man to sin, by reason of whose sin human nature is so infected, that we
are all prone to sin: even as the burning of wood might be imputed to the man who dried the
wood so as to make it easily inflammable. He is not, however, the direct cause of all the sins
of men, as though each were the result of his suggestion. Origen proves this (Peri Archon iii,
2) from the fact that even if the devil were no more, men would still have the desire for food,
sexual pleasures and the like; which desire might be inordinate, unless it were subordinate
to reason, a matter that is subject to the free-will.

Reply Obj. 1: The crowd of demons are the cause of all our evils, as regards their original
cause, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: A man becomes another's slave not only by being overcome by him, but also by
subjecting himself to him spontaneously: it is thus that one who sins of his own accord, becomes
the slave of the devil.

Reply Obj. 3: The devil's sin was irremediable, not only because he sinned without another's
suggestion; but also because he was not already prone to sin, on account of any previous sin;
which can be said of no sin of man.

QUESTION 81

OF THE CAUSE OF SIN, ON THE PART OF MAN (In Five Articles)

We must now consider the cause of sin, on the part of man. Now, while man, like the devil,
is the cause of another's sin, by outward suggestion, he has a certain special manner of causing
sin, by way of origin. Wherefore we must speak about original sin, the consideration of which
will be three-fold: (1) Of its transmission; (2) of its essence; (3) of its subject.

Under the first head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether man's first sin is transmitted, by way of origin to his descendants?

(2) Whether all the other sins of our first parent, or of any other parents, are transmitted
to their descendants, by way of origin?

(3) Whether original sin is contracted by all those who are begotten of Adam by way of seminal
generation?

(4) Whether it would be contracted by anyone formed miraculously from some part of the human body?

(5) Whether original sin would have been contracted if the woman, and not the man, had sinned?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 81, Art. 1]

Whether the First Sin of Our First Parent Is Contracted by His Descendants, by Way of Origin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the first sin of our first parent is not contracted by others,
by way of origin. For it is written (Ezech. 18:20): "The son shall not bear the iniquity of
the father." But he would bear the iniquity if he contracted it from him. Therefore no one
contracts any sin from one of his parents by way of origin.

Obj. 2: Further, an accident is not transmitted by way of origin, unless its subject be also
transmitted, since accidents do not pass from one subject to another. Now the rational soul
which is the subject of sin, is not transmitted by way of origin, as was shown in the First
Part (Q. 118, A. 2). Therefore neither can any sin be transmitted by way of origin.

Obj. 3: Further, whatever is transmitted by way of human origin, is caused by the semen. But
the semen cannot cause sin, because it lacks the rational part of the soul, which alone can
be a cause of sin. Therefore no sin can be contracted by way of origin.

Obj. 4: Further, that which is more perfect in nature, is more powerful in action. Now perfect
flesh cannot infect the soul united to it, else the soul could not be cleansed of original
sin, so long as it is united to the body. Much less, therefore, can the semen infect the soul.

Obj. 5: Further, the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 5): "No one finds fault with those who are
ugly by nature, but only those who are so through want of exercise and through carelessness."
Now those are said to be "naturally ugly," who are so from their origin. Therefore nothing
which comes by way of origin is blameworthy or sinful. Nor can this be understood as denoting
imitation or suggestion, since it is written (Wis. 2:24): "By the envy of the devil, death
came into this world." It follows therefore that through origin from the first man sin entered
into the world.

I answer that, According to the Catholic Faith we are bound to hold that the first sin of the
first man is transmitted to his descendants, by way of origin. For this reason children are
taken to be baptized soon after their birth, to show that they have to be washed from some
uncleanness. The contrary is part of the Pelagian heresy, as is clear from Augustine in many
of his books [*For instance, Retract. i, 9; De Pecc. Merit. et Remiss. ix; Contra Julian. iii,
1; De Dono Persev. xi, xii.]

In endeavoring to explain how the sin of our first parent could be transmitted by way of origin
to his descendants, various writers have gone about it in various ways. For some, considering
that the subject of sin is the rational soul, maintained that the rational soul is transmitted
with the semen, so that thus an infected soul would seem to produce other infected souls. Others,
rejecting this as erroneous, endeavored to show how the guilt of the parent's soul can be transmitted
to the children, even though the soul be not transmitted, from the fact that defects of the
body are transmitted from parent to child--thus a leper may beget a leper, or a gouty man may
be the father of a gouty son, on account of some seminal corruption, although this corruption
is not leprosy or gout. Now since the body is proportionate to the soul, and since the soul's
defects redound into the body, and vice versa, in like manner, say they, a culpable defect
of the soul is passed on to the child, through the transmission of the semen, albeit the semen
itself is not the subject of the guilt.

But all these explanations are insufficient. Because, granted that some bodily defects are
transmitted by way of origin from parent to child, and granted that even some defects of the
soul are transmitted in consequence, on account of a defect in the bodily habit, as in the
case of idiots begetting idiots; nevertheless the fact of having a defect by the way of origin
seems to exclude the notion of guilt, which is essentially something voluntary. Wherefore granted
that the rational soul were transmitted, from the very fact that the stain on the child's soul
is not in its will, it would cease to be a guilty stain binding its subject to punishment;
for, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. iii, 5), "no one reproaches a man born blind; one rather
takes pity on him."

Therefore we must explain the matter otherwise by saying that all men born of Adam may be considered
as one man, inasmuch as they have one common nature, which they receive from their first parents;
even as in civil matters, all who are members of one community are reputed as one body, and
the whole community as one man. Indeed Porphyry says (Praedic., De Specie) that "by sharing
the same species, many men are one man." Accordingly the multitude of men born of Adam, are
as so many members of one body. Now the action of one member of the body, of the hand for instance,
is voluntary not by the will of that hand, but by the will of the soul, the first mover of
the members. Wherefore a murder which the hand commits would not be imputed as a sin to the
hand, considered by itself as apart from the body, but is imputed to it as something belonging
to man and moved by man's first moving principle. In this way, then, the disorder which is
in this man born of Adam, is voluntary, not by his will, but by the will of his first parent,
who, by the movement of generation, moves all who originate from him, even as the soul's will
moves all the members to their actions. Hence the sin which is thus transmitted by the first
parent to his descendants is called "original," just as the sin which flows from the soul into
the bodily members is called "actual." And just as the actual sin that is committed by a member
of the body, is not the sin of that member, except inasmuch as that member is a part of the
man, for which reason it is called a "human sin"; so original sin is not the sin of this person,
except inasmuch as this person receives his nature from his first parent, for which reason
it is called the "sin of nature," according to Eph. 2:3: "We . . . were by nature children
of wrath."

Reply Obj. 1: The son is said not to bear the iniquity of his father, because he is not punished
for his father's sin, unless he share in his guilt. It is thus in the case before us: because
guilt is transmitted by the way of origin from father to son, even as actual sin is transmitted
through being imitated.

Reply Obj. 2: Although the soul is not transmitted, because the power in the semen is not able
to cause the rational soul, nevertheless the motion of the semen is a disposition to the transmission
of the rational soul: so that the semen by its own power transmits the human nature from parent
to child, and with that nature, the stain which infects it: for he that is born is associated
with his first parent in his guilt, through the fact that he inherits his nature from him by
a kind of movement which is that of generation.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the guilt is not actually in the semen, yet human nature is there virtually
accompanied by that guilt.

Reply Obj. 4: The semen is the principle of generation, which is an act proper to nature, by
helping it to propagate itself. Hence the soul is more infected by the semen, than by the flesh
which is already perfect, and already affixed to a certain person.

Reply Obj. 5: A man is not blamed for that which he has from his origin, if we consider the
man born, in himself. But it we consider him as referred to a principle, then he may be reproached
for it: thus a man may from his birth be under a family disgrace, on account of a crime committed
by one of his forbears.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 81, Art. 2]

Whether Also Other Sins of the First Parent or of Nearer Ancestors Are Transmitted to Their
Descendants?

Objection 1: It would seem that also other sins, whether of the first parent or of nearer ancestors,
are transmitted to their descendants. For punishment is never due unless for fault. Now some
are punished by the judgment of God for the sin of their immediate parents, according to Ex.
20:5: "I am . . . Furthermore, according to human law, the children of those who are guilty
of high treason are disinherited. Therefore the guilt of nearer ancestors is also transmitted
to their descendants.

Obj. 2: Further, a man can better transmit to another, that which he has of himself, than that
which he has received from another: thus fire heats better than hot water does. Now a man transmits
to his children, by the way, of origin, the sin which he has from Adam. Much more therefore
should he transmit the sin which he has contracted of himself.

Obj. 3: Further, the reason why we contract original sin from our first parent is because we
were in him as in the principle of our nature, which he corrupted. But we were likewise in
our nearer ancestors, as in principles of our nature, which however it be corrupt, can be corrupted
yet more by sin, according to Apoc. 22:11: "He that is filthy, let him be filthier still."
Therefore children contract, by the way of origin, the sins of their nearer ancestors, even
as they contract the sin of their first parent.

On the contrary, Good is more self-diffusive than evil. But the merits of the nearer ancestors
are not transmitted to their descendants. Much less therefore are their sins.

I answer that, Augustine puts this question in the Enchiridion xlvi, xlvii, and leaves it unsolved.
Yet if we look into the matter carefully we shall see that it is impossible for the sins of
the nearer ancestors, or even any other but the first sin of our first parent to be transmitted
by way of origin. The reason is that a man begets his like in species but not in individual.
Consequently those things that pertain directly to the individual, such as personal actions
and matters affecting them, are not transmitted by parents to their children: for a grammarian
does not transmit to his son the knowledge of grammar that he has acquired by his own studies.
On the other hand, those things that concern the nature of the species, are transmitted by
parents to their children, unless there be a defect of nature: thus a man with eyes begets
a son having eyes, unless nature fails. And if nature be strong, even certain accidents of
the individual pertaining to natural disposition, are transmitted to the children, e.g. fleetness
of body, acuteness of intellect, and so forth; but nowise those that are purely personal, as
stated above.

Now just as something may belong to the person as such, and also something through the gift
of grace, so may something belong to the nature as such, viz. whatever is caused by the principles
of nature, and something too through the gift of grace. In this way original justice, as stated
in the First Part (Q. 100, A. 1), was a gift of grace, conferred by God on all human nature
in our first parent. This gift the first man lost by his first sin. Wherefore as that original
justice together with the nature was to have been transmitted to his posterity, so also was
its disorder. Other actual sins, however, whether of the first parent or of others, do not
corrupt the nature as nature, but only as the nature of that person, i.e. in respect of the
proneness to sin: and consequently other sins are not transmitted.

Reply Obj. 1: According to Augustine in his letter to Avitus [*Ep. ad Auxilium ccl.], children
are never inflicted with spiritual punishment on account of their parents, unless they share
in their guilt, either in their origin, or by imitation, because every soul is God's immediate
property, as stated in Ezech. 18:4. Sometimes, however, by Divine or human judgment, children
receive bodily punishment on their parents' account, inasmuch as the child, as to its body,
is part of its father.

Reply Obj. 2: A man can more easily transmit that which he has of himself, provided it be transmissible.
But the actual sins of our nearer ancestors are not transmissible, because they are purely
personal, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: The first sin infects nature with a human corruption pertaining to nature; whereas
other sins infect it with a corruption pertaining only to the person.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 81, Art. 3]

Whether the Sin of the First Parent Is Transmitted, by the Way of Origin, to All Men?

Objection 1: It would seem that the sin of the first parent is not transmitted, by the way
of origin, to all men. Because death is a punishment consequent upon original sin. But not
all those, who are born of the seed of Adam, will die: since those who will be still living
at the coming of our Lord, will never die, as, seemingly, may be gathered from 1 Thess. 4:14:
"We who are alive . . . unto the coming of the Lord, shall not prevent them who have slept."
Therefore they do not contract original sin.

Obj. 2: Further, no one gives another what he has not himself. Now a man who has been baptized
has not original sin. Therefore he does not transmit it to his children.

Obj. 3: Further, the gift of Christ is greater than the sin of Adam, as the Apostle declares
(Rom. 5:15, seqq). But the gift of Christ is not transmitted to all men: neither, therefore,
is the sin of Adam.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 5:12): "Death passed upon all men in whom all have sinned."

I answer that, According to the Catholic Faith we must firmly believe that, Christ alone excepted,
all men descended from Adam contract original sin from him; else all would not need redemption
[*Cf. Translator's note inserted before III, Q. 27] which is through Christ; and this is erroneous.
The reason for this may be gathered from what has been stated (A. 1), viz. that original sin,
in virtue of the sin of our first parent, is transmitted to his posterity, just as, from the
soul's will, actual sin is transmitted to the members of the body, through their being moved
by the will. Now it is evident that actual sin can be transmitted to all such members as have
an inborn aptitude to be moved by the will. Therefore original sin is transmitted to all those
who are moved by Adam by the movement of generation.

Reply Obj. 1: It is held with greater probability and more commonly that all those that are
alive at the coming of our Lord, will die, and rise again shortly, as we shall state more fully
in the Third Part (Suppl., Q. 78, A. 1, Obj. 1). If, however, it be true, as others hold, that
they will never die, (an opinion which Jerome mentions among others in a letter to Minerius,
on the Resurrection of the Body--Ep. cxix), then we must say in reply to the objection, that
although they are not to die, the debt of death is none the less in them, and that the punishment
of death will be remitted by God, since He can also forgive the punishment due for actual sins.

Reply Obj. 1: Original sin is taken away by Baptism as to the guilt, in so far as the soul
recovers grace as regards the mind. Nevertheless original sin remains in its effect as regards
the fomes, which is the disorder of the lower parts of the soul and of the body itself, in
respect of which, and not of the mind, man exercises his power of generation. Consequently
those who are baptized transmit original sin: since they do not beget as being renewed in Baptism,
but as still retaining something of the oldness of the first sin.

Reply Obj. 3: Just as Adam's sin is transmitted to all who are born of Adam corporally, so
is the grace of Christ transmitted to all that are begotten of Him spiritually, by faith and
Baptism: and this, not only unto the removal of sin of their first parent, but also unto the
removal of actual sins, and the obtaining of glory.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 81, Art. 4]

Whether Original Sin Would Be Contracted by a Person Formed Miraculously from Human Flesh?
For a gloss on Gen. 4:1 says that "Adam's entire posterity was corrupted in his loins, because
they were not severed from him in the place of life, before he sinned, but in the place of
exile after he had sinned." But if a man were to be formed in the aforesaid manner, his flesh
would be severed in the place of exile. Therefore it would contract original sin.

Obj. 2: Further, original sin is caused in us by the soul being infected through the flesh.
But man's flesh is entirely corrupted. Therefore a man's soul would contract the infection
of original sin, from whatever part of the flesh it was formed.

Obj. 3: Further, original sin comes upon all from our first parent, in so far as we were all
in him when he sinned. But those who might be formed out of human flesh, would have been in
Adam. Therefore they would contract original sin.

On the contrary, They would not have been in Adam according to seminal virtue, which alone
is the cause of the transmission of original sin, as Augustine states (Gen. ad lit. x, 18, seqq.).

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 1, 3), original sin is transmitted from the first parent
to his posterity, inasmuch as they are moved by him through generation, even as the members
are moved by the soul to actual sin. Now there is no movement to generation except by the active
power of generation: so that those alone contract original sin, who are descended from Adam
through the active power of generation originally derived from Adam, i.e. who are descended
from him through seminal power; for the seminal power is nothing else than the active power
of generation. But if anyone were to be formed by God out of human flesh, it is evident that
the active power would not be derived from Adam. Consequently he would not contract original
sin: even as a hand would have no part in a human sin, if it were moved, not by the man's will,
but by some external power.

Reply Obj. 1: Adam was not in the place of exile until after his sin. Consequently it is not
on account of the place of exile, but on account of the sin, that original sin is transmitted
to those to whom his active generation extends.

Reply Obj. 2: The flesh does not corrupt the soul, except in so far as it is the active principle
in generation, as we have stated.

Reply Obj. 3: If a man were to be formed from human flesh, he would have been in Adam, "by
way of bodily substance" [*The expression is St. Augustine's (Gen. ad lit. x). Cf. Summa Theologica,
III, Q. 31, A. 6, Reply to First Objection.], but not according to seminal virtue, as stated
above. Therefore he would not contract original sin.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 81, Art. 5]

Whether If Eve, and Not Adam, Had Sinned, Their Children Would Have Contracted Original Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that if Eve, and not Adam, had sinned, their children would have
contracted original sin. Because we contract original sin from our parents, in so far as we
were once in them, according to the word of the Apostle (Rom. 5:12): "In whom all have sinned."
Now a man pre-exists in his mother as well as in his father. Therefore a man would have contracted
original sin from his mother's sin as well as from his father's.

Obj. 2: Further, if Eve, and not Adam, had sinned, their children would have been born liable
to suffering and death, since it is "the mother" that "provides the matter in generation" as
the Philosopher states (De Gener. Animal. ii, 1, 4), when death and liability to suffering
are the necessary results of matter. Now liability to suffering and the necessity of dying
are punishments of original sin. Therefore if Eve, and not Adam, had sinned, their children
would contract original sin.

Obj. 3: Further, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii, 3) that "the Holy Ghost came upon the Virgin,"
(of whom Christ was to be born without original sin) "purifying her." But this purification
would not have been necessary, if the infection of original sin were not contracted from the
mother. Therefore the infection of original sin is contracted from the mother: so that if Eve
had sinned, her children would have contracted original sin, even if Adam had not sinned. Now
if the woman would have transmitted original sin to her children, he should have said that
it entered by two, since both of them sinned, or rather that it entered by a woman, since she
sinned first. Therefore original sin is transmitted to the children, not by the mother, but
by the father.

I answer that, The solution of this question is made clear by what has been said. For it has
been stated (A. 1) that original sin is transmitted by the first parent in so far as he is
the mover in the begetting of his children: wherefore it has been said (A. 4) that if anyone
were begotten materially only, of human flesh, they would not contract original sin. Now it
is evident that in the opinion of philosophers, the active principle of generation is from
the father, while the mother provides the matter. Therefore original sin is contracted, not
from the mother, but from the father: so that, accordingly, if Eve, and not Adam, had sinned,
their children would not contract original sin: whereas, if Adam, and not Eve, had sinned,
they would contract it.

Reply Obj. 1: The child pre-exists in its father as in its active principle, and in its mother,
as in its material and passive principle. Consequently the comparison fails.

Reply Obj. 2: Some hold that if Eve, and not Adam, had sinned, their children would be immune
from the sin, but would have been subject to the necessity of dying and to other forms of suffering
that are a necessary result of the matter which is provided by the mother, not as punishments,
but as actual defects. This, however, seems unreasonable. Because, as stated in the First Part
(Q. 97, AA. 1, 2, ad 4), immortality and impassibility, in the original state, were a result,
not of the condition of matter, but of original justice, whereby the body was subjected to
the soul, so long as the soul remained subject to God. Now privation of original justice is
original sin. If, therefore, supposing Adam had not sinned, original sin would not have been
transmitted to posterity on account of Eve's sin; it is evident that the children would not
have been deprived of original justice: and consequently they would not have been liable to
suffer and subject to the necessity of dying.

Reply Obj. 3: This prevenient purification in the Blessed Virgin was not needed to hinder the
transmission of original sin, but because it behooved the Mother of God "to shine with the
greatest purity" [*Cf. Anselm, De Concep. Virg. xviii.]. For nothing is worthy to receive God
unless it be pure, according to Ps. 92:5: "Holiness becometh Thy House, O Lord."

QUESTION 82

OF ORIGINAL SIN, AS TO ITS ESSENCE (Question 82)

We must now consider original sin as to its essence, and under this head there are four points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether original sin is a habit?

(2) Whether there is but one original sin in each man?

(3) Whether original sin is concupiscence?

(4) Whether original sin is equally in all?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 82, Art. 1]

Whether Original Sin Is a Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that original sin is not a habit. For original sin is the absence
of original justice, as Anselm states (De Concep. Virg. ii, iii, xxvi), so that original sin
is a privation. But privation is opposed to habit. Therefore original sin is not a habit.

Obj. 2: Further, actual sin has the nature of fault more than original sin, in so far as it
is more voluntary. Now the habit of actual sin has not the nature of a fault, else it would
follow that a man while asleep, would be guilty of sin. Therefore no original habit has the
nature of a fault.

Obj. 3: Further, in wickedness act always precedes habit, because evil habits are not infused,
but acquired. Now original sin is not preceded by an act. Therefore original sin is not a habit.

On the contrary, Augustine says in his book on the Baptism of infants (De Pecc. Merit. et Remiss.
i, 39) that on account of original sin little children have the aptitude of concupiscence though
they have not the act. Now aptitude denotes some kind of habit. Therefore original sin is a habit.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 49, A. 4; Q. 50, A. 1), habit is twofold. The first is a
habit whereby power is inclined to an act: thus science and virtue are called habits. In this
way original sin is not a habit. The second kind of habit is the disposition of a complex nature,
whereby that nature is well or ill disposed to something, chiefly when such a disposition has
become like a second nature, as in the case of sickness or health. In this sense original sin
is a habit. For it is an inordinate disposition, arising from the destruction of the harmony
which was essential to original justice, even as bodily sickness is an inordinate disposition
of the body, by reason of the destruction of that equilibrium which is essential to health.
Hence it is that original sin is called the "languor of nature" [*Cf. Augustine, In Ps. 118,
serm. iii].

Reply Obj. 1: As bodily sickness is partly a privation, in so far as it denotes the destruction
of the equilibrium of health, and partly something positive, viz. the very humors that are
inordinately disposed, so too original sin denotes the privation of original justice, and besides
this, the inordinate disposition of the parts of the soul. Consequently it is not a pure privation,
but a corrupt habit.

Reply Obj. 2: Actual sin is an inordinateness of an act: whereas original sin, being the sin
of nature, is an inordinate disposition of nature, and has the character of fault through being
transmitted from our first parent, as stated above (Q. 81, A. 1). Now this inordinate disposition
of nature is a kind of habit, whereas the inordinate disposition of an act is not: and for
this reason original sin can be a habit, whereas actual sin cannot.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection considers the habit which inclines a power to an act: but original
sin is not this kind of habit. Nevertheless a certain inclination to an inordinate act does
follow from original sin, not directly, but indirectly, viz. by the removal of the obstacle,
i.e. original justice, which hindered inordinate movements: just as an inclination to inordinate
bodily movements results indirectly from bodily sickness. Nor is it necessary to say that original
sin is a habit "infused," or a habit "acquired" (except by the act of our first parent, but
not by our own act): but it is a habit "inborn" due to our corrupt origin.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 82, Art. 2]

Whether There Are Several Original Sins in One Man?

Objection 1: It would seem that there are many original sins in one man. For it is written
(Ps. 1:7): "Behold I was conceived in iniquities, and in sins did my mother conceive me." But
the sin in which a man is conceived is original sin. Therefore there are several original sins
in man.

Obj. 2: Further, one and the same habit does not incline its subject to contraries: since the
inclination of habit is like that of nature which tends to one thing. Now original sin, even
in one man, inclines to various and contrary sins. Therefore original sin is not one habit;
but several.

Obj. 3: Further, original sin infects every part of the soul. Now the different parts of the
soul are different subjects of sin, as shown above (Q. 74). Since then one sin cannot be in
different subjects, it seems that original sin is not one but several.

On the contrary, It is written (John 1:29): "Behold the Lamb of God, behold Him Who taketh
away the sin of the world": and the reason for the employment of the singular is that the "sin
of the world" is original sin, as a gloss expounds this passage.

I answer that, In one man there is one original sin. Two reasons may be assigned for this.
The first is on the part of the cause of original sin. For it has been stated (Q. 81, A. 2),
that the first sin alone of our first parent was transmitted to his posterity. Wherefore in
one man original sin is one in number; and in all men, it is one in proportion, i.e. in relation
to its first principle. The second reason may be taken from the very essence of original sin.
Because in every inordinate disposition, unity of species depends on the cause, while the unity
of number is derived from the subject. For example, take bodily sickness: various species of
sickness proceed from different causes, e.g. from excessive heat or cold, or from a lesion
in the lung or liver; while one specific sickness in one man will be one in number. Now the
cause of this corrupt disposition that is called original sin, is one only, viz. the privation
of original justice, removing the subjection of man's mind to God. Consequently original sin
is specifically one, and, in one man, can be only one in number; while, in different men, it
is one in species and in proportion, but is numerically many.

Reply Obj. 1: The employment of the plural--"in sins"--may be explained by the custom of the
Divine Scriptures in the frequent use of the plural for the singular, e.g. "They are dead that
sought the life of the child"; or by the fact that all actual sins virtually pre-exist in original
sin, as in a principle so that it is virtually many; or by the fact of there being many deformities
in the sin of our first parent, viz. pride, disobedience, gluttony, and so forth; or by several
parts of the soul being infected by original sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Of itself and directly, i.e. by its own form, one habit cannot incline its subject
to contraries. But there is no reason why it should not do so, indirectly and accidentally,
i.e. by the removal of an obstacle: thus, when the harmony of a mixed body is destroyed, the
elements have contrary local tendencies. In like manner, when the harmony of original justice
is destroyed, the various powers of the soul have various opposite tendencies.

Reply Obj. 3: Original sin infects the different parts of the soul, in so far as they are the
parts of one whole; even as original justice held all the soul's parts together in one. Consequently
there is but one original sin: just as there is but one fever in one man, although the various
parts of the body are affected.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 82, Art. 3]

Whether Original Sin Is Concupiscence?

Objection 1: It would seem that original sin is not concupiscence. But concupiscence is in
accordance with nature, since it is the proper act of the concupiscible faculty which is a
natural power. Therefore concupiscence is not original sin.

Obj. 2: Further, through original sin "the passions of sins" are in us, according to the Apostle
(Rom. 7:5). Now there are several other passions besides concupiscence, as stated above (Q.
23, A. 4). Therefore original sin is not concupiscence any more than another passion.

Obj. 3: Further, by original sin, all the parts of the soul are disordered, as stated above
(A. 2, Obj. 3). But the intellect is the highest of the soul's parts, as the Philosopher states
(Ethic. x, 7). Therefore original sin is ignorance rather than concupiscence.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Retract. i, 15): "Concupiscence is the guilt of original sin."

I answer that, Everything takes its species from its form: and it has been stated (A. 2) that
the species of original sin is taken from its cause. Consequently the formal element of original
sin must be considered in respect of the cause of original sin. But contraries have contrary
causes. Therefore the cause of original sin must be considered with respect to the cause of
original justice, which is opposed to it. Now the whole order of original justice consists
in man's will being subject to God: which subjection, first and chiefly, was in the will, whose
function it is to move all the other parts to the end, as stated above (Q. 9, A. 1), so that
the will being turned away from God, all the other powers of the soul become inordinate. Accordingly
the privation of original justice, whereby the will was made subject to God, is the formal
element in original sin; while every other disorder of the soul's powers, is a kind of material
element in respect of original sin. Now the inordinateness of the other powers of the soul
consists chiefly in their turning inordinately to mutable good; which inordinateness may be
called by the general name of concupiscence. Hence original sin is concupiscence, materially,
but privation of original justice, formally.

Reply Obj. 1: Since, in man, the concupiscible power is naturally governed by reason, the act
of concupiscence is so far natural to man, as it is in accord with the order of reason; while,
in so far as it trespasses beyond the bounds of reason, it is, for a man, contrary to reason.
Such is the concupiscence of original sin.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 25, A. 1), all the irascible passions are reducible to concupiscible
passions, as holding the princip[al] place: and of these, concupiscence is the most impetuous
in moving, and is felt most, as stated above (Q. 25, A. 2, ad 1). Therefore original sin is
ascribed to concupiscence, as being the chief passion, and as including all the others, in
a fashion.

Reply Obj. 3: As, in good things, the intellect and reason stand first, so conversely in evil
things, the lower part of the soul is found to take precedence, for it clouds and draws the
reason, as stated above (Q. 77, AA. 1, 2;Q. 80, A. 2). Hence original sin is called concupiscence
rather than ignorance, although ignorance is comprised among the material defects of original sin.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 82, Art. 4]

Whether Original Sin Is Equally in All?

Objection 1: It would seem that original sin is not equally in all. Because original sin is
inordinate concupiscence, as stated above (A. 3). Now all are not equally prone to acts of
concupiscence. Therefore original sin is not equally in all.

Obj. 2: Further, original sin is an inordinate disposition of the soul, just as sickness is
an inordinate disposition of the body. But sickness is subject to degrees. Therefore original
sin is subject to degrees.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Nup. et Concep. i, 23) that "lust transmits original sin
to the child." But the act of generation may be more lustful in one than in another. Therefore
original sin may be greater in one than in another.

On the contrary, Original sin is the sin of nature, as stated above (Q. 81, A. 1). But nature
is equally in all. Therefore original sin is too.

I answer that, There are two things in original sin: one is the privation of original justice;
the other is the relation of this privation to the sin of our first parent, from whom it is
transmitted to man through his corrupt origin. As to the first, original sin has no degrees,
since the gift of original justice is taken away entirely; and privations that remove something
entirely, such as death and darkness, cannot be more or less, as stated above (Q. 73, A. 2).
In like manner, neither is this possible, as to the second: since all are related equally to
the first principle of our corrupt origin, from which principle original sin takes the nature
of guilt; for relations cannot be more or less. Consequently it is evident that original sin
cannot be more in one than in another.

Reply Obj. 1: Through the bond of original justice being broken, which held together all the
powers of the soul in a certain order, each power of the soul tends to its own proper movement,
and the more impetuously, as it is stronger. Now it happens that some of the soul's powers
are stronger in one man than in another, on account of the different bodily temperaments. Consequently
if one man is more prone than another to acts of concupiscence, this is not due to original
sin, because the bond of original justice is equally broken in all, and the lower parts of
the soul are, in all, left to themselves equally; but it is due to the various dispositions
of the powers, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: Sickness of the body, even sickness of the same species, has not an equal cause
in all; for instance if a fever be caused by corruption of the bile, the corruption may be
greater or less, and nearer to, or further from a vital principle. But the cause of original
sin is equal to all, so that there is no comparison.

Reply Obj. 3: It is not the actual lust that transmits original sin: for, supposing God were
to grant to a man to feel no inordinate lust in the act of generation, he would still transmit
original sin; we must understand this to be habitual lust, whereby the sensitive appetite is
not kept subject to reason by the bonds of original justice. This lust is equally in all.

QUESTION 83

OF THE SUBJECT OF ORIGINAL SIN (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the subject of original sin, under which head there are four points of
inquiry:

(1) Whether the subject of original sin is the flesh rather than the soul?

(2) If it be the soul, whether this be through its essence, or through its powers?

(3) Whether the will prior to the other powers is the subject of original sin?

(4) Whether certain powers of the soul are specially infected, viz. the generative power, the
concupiscible part, and the sense of touch?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 83, Art. 1]

Whether Original Sin Is More in the Flesh Than in the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that original sin is more in the flesh than in the soul. Because
the rebellion of the flesh against the mind arises from the corruption of original sin. Therefore
original sin is seated chiefly in the flesh.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing is more in its cause than in its effect: thus heat is in the heating
fire more than in the hot water. Now the soul is infected with the corruption of original sin
by the carnal semen. Therefore original sin is in the flesh rather than in the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, we contract original sin from our first parent, in so far as we were in him
by reason of seminal virtue. Now our souls were not in him thus, but only our flesh. Therefore
original sin is not in the soul, but in the flesh.

Obj. 4: Further, the rational soul created by God is infused into the body. If therefore the
soul were infected with original sin, it would follow that it is corrupted in its creation
or infusion: and thus God would be the cause of sin, since He is the author of the soul's creation
and fusion.

Obj. 5: Further, no wise man pours a precious liquid into a vessel, knowing that the vessel
will corrupt the liquid. But the rational soul is more precious than any liquid. If therefore
the soul, by being united with the body, could be corrupted with the infection of original
sin, God, Who is wisdom itself, would never infuse the soul into such a body. And yet He does;
wherefore it is not corrupted by the flesh. Therefore original sin is not in the soul but in
the flesh.

On the contrary, The same is the subject of a virtue and of the vice or sin contrary to that
virtue. But the flesh cannot be the subject of virtue: for the Apostle says (Rom. 7:18): "I
know that there dwelleth not in me, that is to say, in my flesh, that which is good." Therefore
the flesh cannot be the subject of original sin, but only the soul.

I answer that, One thing can be in another in two ways. First, as in its cause, either principal,
or instrumental; secondly, as in its subject. Accordingly the original sin of all men was in
Adam indeed, as in its principal cause, according to the words of the Apostle (Rom. 5:12):
"In whom all have sinned": whereas it is in the bodily semen, as in its instrumental cause,
since it is by the active power of the semen that original sin together with human nature is
transmitted to the child. But original sin can nowise be in the flesh as its subject, but only
in the soul.

The reason for this is that, as stated above (Q. 81, A. 1), original sin is transmitted from
the will of our first parent to this posterity by a certain movement of generation, in the
same way as actual sin is transmitted from any man's will to his other parts. Now in this transmission
it is to be observed, that whatever accrues from the motion of the will consenting to sin,
to any part of man that can in any way share in that guilt, either as its subject or as its
instrument, has the character of sin. Thus from the will consenting to gluttony, concupiscence
of food accrues to the concupiscible faculty, and partaking of food accrues to the hand and
the mouth, which, in so far as they are moved by the will to sin, are the instruments of sin.
But that further action is evoked in the nutritive power and the internal members, which have
no natural aptitude for being moved by the will, does not bear the character of guilt.

Accordingly, since the soul can be the subject of guilt, while the flesh, of itself, cannot
be the subject of guilt; whatever accrues to the soul from the corruption of the first sin,
has the character of guilt, while whatever accrues to the flesh, has the character, not of
guilt but of punishment: so that, therefore, the soul is the subject of original sin, and not
the flesh.

Reply Obj. 1: As Augustine says (Retract. i, 27) [*Cf. QQ. lxxxiii, qu. 66], the Apostle is
speaking, in that passage, of man already redeemed, who is delivered from guilt, but is still
liable to punishment, by reason of which sin is stated to dwell "in the flesh." Consequently
it follows that the flesh is the subject, not of guilt, but of punishment.

Reply Obj. 2: Original sin is caused by the semen as instrumental cause. Now there is no need
for anything to be more in the instrumental cause than in the effect; but only in the principal
cause: and, in this way, original sin was in Adam more fully, since in him it had the nature
of actual sin.

Reply Obj. 3: The soul of any individual man was in Adam, in respect of his seminal power,
not indeed as in its effective principle, but as in a dispositive principle: because the bodily
semen, which is transmitted from Adam, does not of its own power produce the rational soul,
but disposes the matter for it.

Reply Obj. 4: The corruption of original sin is nowise caused by God, but by the sin alone
of our first parent through carnal generation. And so, since creation implies a relation in
the soul to God alone, it cannot be said that the soul is tainted through being created. On
the other hand, infusion implies relation both to God infusing and to the flesh into which
the soul is infused. And so, with regard to God infusing, it cannot be said that the soul is
stained through being infused; but only with regard to the body into which it is infused.

Reply Obj. 5: The common good takes precedence of private good. Wherefore God, according to
His wisdom, does not overlook the general order of things (which is that such a soul be infused
into such a body), lest this soul contract a singular corruption: all the more that the nature
of the soul demands that it should not exist prior to its infusion into the body, as stated
in the First Part (Q. 90, A. 4; Q. 118, A. 3). And it is better for the soul to be thus, according
to its nature, than not to be at all, especially since it can avoid damnation, by means of grace.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 83, Art. 2]

Whether Original Sin Is in the Essence of the Soul Rather Than in the Powers?

Objection 1: It would seem that original sin is not in the essence of the soul rather than
in the powers. For the soul is naturally apt to be the subject of sin, in respect of those
parts which can be moved by the will. Now the soul is moved by the will, not as to its essence
but only as to the powers. Therefore original sin is in the soul, not according to its essence,
but only according to the powers.

Obj. 2: Further, original sin is opposed to original justice. Now original justice was in a
power of the soul, because power is the subject of virtue. Therefore original sin also is in
a power of the soul, rather than in its essence.

Obj. 3: Further, just as original sin is derived from the soul as from the flesh, so is it
derived by the powers from the essence. But original sin is more in the soul than in the flesh.
Therefore it is more in the powers than in the essence of the soul.

Obj. 4: Further, original sin is said to be concupiscence, as stated (Q. 82, A. 3). But concupiscence
is in the powers of the soul. Therefore original sin is also.

On the contrary, Original sin is called the sin of nature, as stated above (Q. 81, A. 1). Now
the soul is the form and nature of the body, in respect of its essence and not in respect of
its powers, as stated in the First Part (Q. 76, A. 6). Therefore the soul is the subject of
original sin chiefly in respect of its essence.

I answer that, The subject of a sin is chiefly that part of the soul to which the motive cause
of that sin primarily pertains: thus if the motive cause of a sin is sensual pleasure, which
regards the concupiscible power through being its proper object, it follows that the concupiscible
power is the proper subject of that sin. Now it is evident that original sin is caused through
our origin. Consequently that part of the soul which is first reached by man's origin, is the
primary subject of original sin. Now the origin reaches the soul as the term of generation,
according as it is the form of the body: and this belongs to the soul in respect of its essence,
as was proved in the First Part (Q. 76, A. 6). Therefore the soul, in respect of its essence,
is the primary subject of original sin.

Reply Obj. 1: As the motion of the will of an individual reaches to the soul's powers and not
to its essence, so the motion of the will of the first generator, through the channel of generation,
reaches first of all to the essence of the soul, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: Even original justice pertained radically to the essence of the soul, because
it was God's gift to human nature, to which the essence of the soul is related before the powers.
For the powers seem to regard the person, in as much as they are the principles of personal
acts. Hence they are the proper subjects of actual sins, which are the sins of the person.

Reply Obj. 3: The body is related to the soul as matter to form, which though it comes second
in order of generation, nevertheless comes first in the order of perfection and nature. But
the essence of the soul is related to the powers, as a subject to its proper accidents, which
follow their subject both in the order of generation and in that of perfection. Consequently
the comparison fails.

Reply Obj. 4: Concupiscence, in relation to original sin, holds the position of matter and
effect, as stated above (Q. 82, A. 3).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 83, Art. 3]

Whether Original Sin Infects the Will Before the Other Powers?

Objection 1: It would seem that original sin does not infect the will before the other powers.
For every sin belongs chiefly to that power by whose act it was caused. Now original sin is
caused by an act of the generative power. Therefore it seems to belong to the generative power
more than to the others.

Obj. 2: Further, original sin is transmitted through the carnal semen. But the other powers
of the soul are more akin to the flesh than the will is, as is evident with regard to all the
sensitive powers, which use a bodily organ. Therefore original sin is in them more than in
the will.

Obj. 3: Further, the intellect precedes the will, for the object of the will is only the good
understood. If therefore original sin infects all the powers of the soul, it seems that it
must first of all infect the intellect, as preceding the others.

On the contrary, Original justice has a prior relation to the will, because it is "rectitude
of the will," as Anselm states (De Concep. Virg. iii). Therefore original sin, which is opposed
to it, also has a prior relation to the will.

I answer that, Two things must be considered in the infection of original sin. First, its inherence
to its subject; and in this respect it regards first the essence of the soul, as stated above
(A. 2). In the second place we must consider its inclination to act; and in this way it regards
the powers of the soul. It must therefore regard first of all that power in which is seated
the first inclination to commit a sin, and this is the will, as stated above (Q. 74, AA. 1,
2). Therefore original sin regards first of all the will.

Reply Obj. 1: Original sin, in man, is not caused by the generative power of the child, but
by the act of the parental generative power. Consequently, it does not follow that the child's
generative power is the subject of original sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Original sin spreads in two ways; from the flesh to the soul, and from the essence
of the soul to the powers. The former follows the order of generation, the latter follows the
order of perfection. Therefore, although the other, viz. the sensitive powers, are more akin
to the flesh, yet, since the will, being the higher power, is more akin to the essence of the
soul, the infection of original sin reaches it first.

Reply Obj. 3: The intellect precedes the will, in one way, by proposing its object to it. In
another way, the will precedes the intellect, in the order of motion to act, which motion pertains
to sin.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 83, Art. 4]

Whether the Aforesaid Powers Are More Infected Than the Others?

Objection 1: It would seem that the aforesaid powers are not more infected than the others.
For the infection of original sin seems to pertain more to that part of the soul which can
be first the subject of sin. Now this is the rational part, and chiefly the will. Therefore
that power is most infected by original sin.

Obj. 2: Further, no power of the soul is infected by guilt, except in so far as it can obey
reason. Now the generative power cannot obey reason, as stated in Ethic. i, 13. Therefore the
generative power is not the most infected by original sin.

Obj. 3: Further, of all the senses the sight is the most spiritual and the nearest to reason,
in so far "as it shows us how a number of things differ" (Metaph. i). But the infection of
guilt is first of all in the reason. Therefore the sight is more infected than touch.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 16, seqq., 24) that the infection of original
sin is most apparent in the movements of the members of generation, which are not subject to
reason. Now those members serve the generative power in the mingling of sexes, wherein there
is the delectation of touch, which is the most powerful incentive to concupiscence. Therefore
the infection of original sin regards these three chiefly, viz. the generative power, the concupiscible
faculty and the sense of touch.

I answer that, Those corruptions especially are said to be infectious, which are of such a
nature as to be transmitted from one subject to another: hence contagious diseases, such as
leprosy and murrain and the like, are said to be infectious. Now the corruption of original
sin is transmitted by the act of generation, as stated above (Q. 81, A. 1). Therefore the powers
which concur in this act, are chiefly said to be infected. Now this act serves the generative
power, in as much as it is directed to generation; and it includes delectation of the touch,
which is the most powerful object of the concupiscible faculty. Consequently, while all the
parts of the soul are said to be corrupted by original sin, these three are said specially
to be corrupted and infected.

Reply Obj. 1: Original sin, in so far as it inclines to actual sins, belongs chiefly to the
will, as stated above (A. 3). But in so far as it is transmitted to the offspring, it belongs
to the aforesaid powers proximately, and to the will, remotely.

Reply Obj. 2: The infection of actual sin belongs only to the powers which are moved by the
will of the sinner. But the infection of original sin is not derived from the will of the contractor,
but through his natural origin, which is effected by the generative power. Hence it is this
power that is infected by original sin.

Reply Obj. 3: Sight is not related to the act of generation except in respect of remote disposition,
in so far as the concupiscible species is seen through the sight. But the delectation is completed
in the touch. Wherefore the aforesaid infection is ascribed to the touch rather than to the sight.

QUESTION 84

OF THE CAUSE OF SIN, IN RESPECT OF ONE SIN BEING THE CAUSE OF ANOTHER (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the cause of sin, in so far as one sin can be the cause of another. Under
this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether covetousness is the root of all sins?

(2) Whether pride is the beginning of every sin?

(3) Whether other special sins should be called capital vices, besides pride and covetousness?

(4) How many capital vices there are, and which are they?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 84, Art. 1]

Whether Covetousness Is the Root of All Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that covetousness is not the root of all sins. For covetousness,
which is immoderate desire for riches, is opposed to the virtue of liberality. But liberality
is not the root of all virtues. Therefore covetousness is not the root of all sins.

Obj. 2: Further, the desire for the means proceeds from desire for the end. Now riches, the
desire for which is called covetousness, are not desired except as being useful for some end,
as stated in Ethic. i, 5. Therefore covetousness is not the root of all sins, but proceeds
from some deeper root.

Obj. 3: Further, it often happens that avarice, which is another name for covetousness, arises
from other sins; as when a man desires money through ambition, or in order to sate his gluttony.
Therefore it is not the root of all sins.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (1 Tim. 6:10): "The desire of money is the root of all evil."

I answer that, According to some, covetousness may be understood in different ways. First,
as denoting inordinate desire for riches: and thus it is a special sin. Secondly, as denoting
inordinate desire for any temporal good: and thus it is a genus comprising all sins, because
every sin includes an inordinate turning to a mutable good, as stated above (Q. 72, A. 2).
Thirdly, as denoting an inclination of a corrupt nature to desire corruptible goods inordinately:
and they say that in this sense covetousness is the root of all sins, comparing it to the root
of a tree, which draws its sustenance from earth, just as every sin grows out of the love of
temporal things.

Now, though all this is true, it does not seem to explain the mind of the Apostle when he states
that covetousness is the root of all sins. For in that passage he clearly speaks against those
who, because they "will become rich, fall into temptation, and into the snare of the devil
. . . for covetousness is the root of all evils." Hence it is evident that he is speaking of
covetousness as denoting the inordinate desire for riches. Accordingly, we must say that covetousness,
as denoting a special sin, is called the root of all sins, in likeness to the root of a tree,
in furnishing sustenance to the whole tree. For we see that by riches man acquires the means
of committing any sin whatever, and of sating his desire for any sin whatever, since money
helps man to obtain all manner of temporal goods, according to Eccles. 10:19: "All things obey
money": so that in this desire for riches is the root of all sins.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue and sin do not arise from the same source. For sin arises from the desire
of mutable good; and consequently the desire of that good which helps one to obtain all temporal
goods, is called the root of all sins.

Reply Obj. 2: The desire of money is said to be the root of sins, not as though riches were
sought for their own sake, as being the last end; but because they are much sought after as
useful for any temporal end. And since a universal good is more desirable than a particular
good, they move the appetite more than any individual goods, which along with many others can
be procured by means of money.

Reply Obj. 3: Just as in natural things we do not ask what always happens, but what happens
most frequently, for the reason that the nature of corruptible things can be hindered, so as
not always to act in the same way; so also in moral matters, we consider what happens in the
majority of cases, not what happens invariably, for the reason that the will does not act of
necessity. So when we say that covetousness is the root of all evils, we do not assert that
no other evil can be its root, but that other evils more frequently arise therefrom, for the
reason given.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 84, Art. 2]

Whether Pride Is the Beginning of Every Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that pride is not the beginning of every sin. For the root is a
beginning of a tree, so that the beginning of a sin seems to be the same as the root of sin.
Now covetousness is the root of every sin, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore it is also the
beginning of every sin, and not pride. But apostasy from God is a sin. Therefore another sin
is the beginning of pride, so that the latter is not the beginning of every sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the beginning of every sin would seem to be that which causes all sins. Now
this is inordinate self-love, which, according to Augustine (De Civ. Dei xiv), "builds up the
city of Babylon." Therefore self-love and not pride, is the beginning of every sin. First,
as denoting inordinate desire to excel; and thus it is a special sin. Secondly, as denoting
actual contempt of God, to the effect of not being subject to His commandment; and thus, they
say, it is a generic sin. Thirdly, as denoting an inclination to this contempt, owing to the
corruption of nature; and in this sense they say that it is the beginning of every sin, and
that it differs from covetousness, because covetousness regards sin as turning towards the
mutable good by which sin is, as it were, nourished and fostered, for which reason covetousness
is called the "root"; whereas pride regards sin as turning away from God, to Whose commandment
man refuses to be subject, for which reason it is called the "beginning," because the beginning
of evil consists in turning away from God.

Now though all this is true, nevertheless it does not explain the mind of the wise man who
said (Ecclus. 10:15): "Pride is the beginning of all sin." For it is evident that he is speaking
of pride as denoting inordinate desire to excel, as is clear from what follows (verse 17):
"God hath overturned the thrones of proud princes"; indeed this is the point of nearly the
whole chapter. We must therefore say that pride, even as denoting a special sin, is the beginning
of every sin. For we must take note that, in voluntary actions, such as sins, there is a twofold
order, of intention, and of execution. In the former order, the principle is the end, as we
have stated many times before (Q. 1, A. 1, ad 1; Q. 18, A. 7, ad 2; Q. 15, A. 1, ad 2; Q. 25,
A. 2). Now man's end in acquiring all temporal goods is that, through their means, he may have
some perfection and excellence. Therefore, from this point of view, pride, which is the desire
to excel, is said to be the "beginning" of every sin. On the other hand, in the order of execution,
the first place belongs to that which by furnishing the opportunity of fulfilling all desires
of sin, has the character of a root, and such are riches; so that, from this point of view,
covetousness is said to be the "root" of all evils, as stated above (A. 1).

This suffices for the Reply to the First Objection.

Reply Obj. 2: Apostasy from God is stated to be the beginning of pride, in so far as it denotes
a turning away from God, because from the fact that man wishes not to be subject to God, it
follows that he desires inordinately his own excellence in temporal things. Wherefore, in the
passage quoted, apostasy from God does not denote the special sin, but rather that general
condition of every sin, consisting in its turning away from God. It may also be said that apostasy
from God is said to be the beginning of pride, because it is the first species of pride. For
it is characteristic of pride to be unwilling to be subject to any superior, and especially
to God; the result being that a man is unduly lifted up, in respect of the other species of pride.

Reply Obj. 3: In desiring to excel, man loves himself, for to love oneself is the same as to
desire some good for oneself. Consequently it amounts to the same whether we reckon pride or
self-love as the beginning of every evil.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 84, Art. 3]

Whether Any Other Special Sins, Besides Pride and Avarice, Should Be Called Capital?

Objection 1: It would seem that no other special sins, besides pride and avarice, should be
called capital. Because "the head seems to be to an animal, what the root is to a plant," as
stated in De Anima ii, text. 38: for the roots are like a mouth. If therefore covetousness
is called the "root of all evils," it seems that it alone, and no other sin, should be called
a capital vice.

Obj. 2: Further, the head bears a certain relation of order to the other members, in so far
as sensation and movement follow from the head. But sin implies privation of order. Therefore
sin has not the character of head: so that no sins should be called capital.

Obj. 3: Further, capital crimes are those which receive capital punishment. But every kind
of sin comprises some that are punished thus. Therefore the capital sins are not certain specific
sins.

On the contrary, Gregory (Moral. xxxi, 17) enumerates certain special vices under the name
of capital.

I answer that, The word capital is derived from caput (a head). Now the head, properly speaking,
is that part of an animal's body, which is the principle and director of the whole animal.
Hence, metaphorically speaking, every principle is called a head, and even men who direct and
govern others are called heads. Accordingly a capital vice is so called, in the first place,
from "head" taken in the proper sense, and thus the name "capital" is given to a sin for which
capital punishment is inflicted. It is not in this sense that we are now speaking of capital
sins, but in another sense, in which the term "capital" is derived from head, taken metaphorically
for a principle or director of others. In this way a capital vice is one from which other vices
arise, chiefly by being their final cause, which origin is formal, as stated above (Q. 72,
A. 6). Wherefore a capital vice is not only the principle of others, but is also their director
and, in a way, their leader: because the art or habit, to which the end belongs, is always
the principle and the commander in matters concerning the means. Hence Gregory (Moral. xxxi,
17) compares these capital vices to the "leaders of an army."

Reply Obj. 1: The term "capital" is taken from caput and applied to something connected with,
or partaking of the head, as having some property thereof, but not as being the head taken
literally. And therefore the capital vices are not only those which have the character of primary
origin, as covetousness which is called the "root," and pride which is called the beginning,
but also those which have the character of proximate origin in respect of several sins.

Reply Obj. 2: Sin lacks order in so far as it turns away from God, for in this respect it is
an evil, and evil, according to Augustine (De Natura Boni iv), is "the privation of mode, species
and order." But in so far as sin implies a turning to something, it regards some good: wherefore,
in this respect, there can be order in sin.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection considers capital sin as so called from the punishment it deserves,
in which sense we are not taking it here.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 84, Art. 4]

Whether the Seven Capital Vices Are Suitably Reckoned?

Objection 1: It would seem that we ought not to reckon seven capital vices, viz. vainglory,
envy, anger, sloth, covetousness, gluttony, lust. For sins are opposed to virtues. But there
are four principal virtues, as stated above (Q. 61, A. 2). Therefore there are only four principal
or capital vices.

Obj. 2: Further, the passions of the soul are causes of sin, as stated above (Q. 77). But there
are four principal passions of the soul; two of which, viz. hope and fear, are not mentioned
among the above sins, whereas certain vices are mentioned to which pleasure and sadness belong,
since pleasure belongs to gluttony and lust, and sadness to sloth and envy. Therefore the principal
sins are unfittingly enumerated.

Obj. 3: Further, anger is not a principal passion. Therefore it should not be placed among
the principal vices.

Obj. 4: Further, just as covetousness or avarice is the root of sin, so is pride the beginning
of sin, as stated above (A. 2). But avarice is reckoned to be one of the capital vices. Therefore
pride also should be placed among the capital vices.

Obj. 5: Further, some sins are committed which cannot be caused through any of these: as, for
instance, when one sins through ignorance, or when one commits a sin with a good intention,
e.g. steals in order to give an alms. Therefore the capital vices are insufficiently enumerated.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Gregory who enumerates them in this way (Moral. xxxi, 17).

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), the capital vices are those which give rise to others,
especially by way of final cause. Now this kind of origin may take place in two ways. First,
on account of the condition of the sinner, who is disposed so as to have a strong inclination
for one particular end, the result being that he frequently goes forward to other sins. But
this kind of origin does not come under the consideration of art, because man's particular
dispositions are infinite in number. Secondly, on account of a natural relationship of the
ends to one another: and it is in this way that most frequently one vice arises from another,
so that this kind of origin can come under the consideration of art.

Accordingly therefore, those vices are called capital, whose ends have certain fundamental
reasons for moving the appetite; and it is in respect of these fundamental reasons that the
capital vices are differentiated. Now a thing moves the appetite in two ways. First, directly
and of its very nature: thus good moves the appetite to seek it, while evil, for the same reason,
moves the appetite to avoid it. Secondly, indirectly and on account of something else, as it
were: thus one seeks an evil on account of some attendant good, or avoids a good on account
of some attendant evil.

Again, man's good is threefold. For, in the first place, there is a certain good of the soul,
which derives its aspect of appetibility, merely through being apprehended, viz. the excellence
of honor and praise, and this good is sought inordinately by vainglory. Secondly, there is
the good of the body, and this regards either the preservation of the individual, e.g. meat
and drink, which good is pursued inordinately by gluttony, or the preservation of the species,
e.g. sexual intercourse, which good is sought inordinately by lust. Thirdly, there is external
good, viz. riches, to which covetousness is referred. These same four vices avoid inordinately
the contrary evils.

Or again, good moves the appetite chiefly through possessing some property of happiness, which
all men seek naturally. Now in the first place happiness implies perfection, since happiness
is a perfect good, to which belongs excellence or renown, which is desired by pride or vainglory.
Secondly, it implies satiety, which covetousness seeks in riches that give promise thereof.
Thirdly, it implies pleasure, without which happiness is impossible, as stated in Ethic. i,
7; x, 6, 7, 8 and this gluttony and lust pursue.

On the other hand, avoidance of good on account of an attendant evil occurs in two ways. For
this happens either in respect of one's own good, and thus we have sloth, which is sadness
about one's spiritual good, on account of the attendant bodily labor: or else it happens in
respect of another's good, and this, if it be without recrimination, belongs to envy, which
is sadness about another's good as being a hindrance to one's own excellence, while if it be
with recrimination with a view to vengeance, it is anger. Again, these same vices seek the
contrary evils.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue and vice do not originate in the same way: since virtue is caused by the
subordination of the appetite to reason, or to the immutable good, which is God, whereas vice
arises from the appetite for mutable good. Wherefore there is no need for the principal vices
to be contrary to the principal virtues.

Reply Obj. 2: Fear and hope are irascible passions. Now all the passions of the irascible part
arise from passions of the concupiscible part; and these are all, in a way, directed to pleasure
or sorrow. Hence pleasure and sorrow have a prominent place among the capital sins, as being
the most important of the passions, as stated above (Q. 25, A. 4).

Reply Obj. 3: Although anger is not a principal passion, yet it has a distinct place among
the capital vices, because it implies a special kind of movement in the appetite, in so far
as recrimination against another's good has the aspect of a virtuous good, i.e. of the right
to vengeance.

Reply Obj. 4: Pride is said to be the beginning of every sin, in the order of the end, as stated
above (A. 2): and it is in the same order that we are to consider the capital sin as being
principal. Wherefore pride, like a universal vice, is not counted along with the others, but
is reckoned as the "queen of them all," as Gregory states (Moral. xxxi, 27). But covetousness
is said to be the root from another point of view, as stated above (AA. 1, 2).

Reply Obj. 5: These vices are called capital because others, most frequently, arise from them:
so that nothing prevents some sins from arising out of other causes. Nevertheless we might
say that all the sins which are due to ignorance, can be reduced to sloth, to which pertains
the negligence of a man who declines to acquire spiritual goods on account of the attendant
labor; for the ignorance that can cause sin, is due to negligence, as stated above (Q. 76,
A. 2). That a man commit a sin with a good intention, seems to point to ignorance, in so far
as he knows not that evil should not be done that good may come of it.

QUESTION 85

OF THE EFFECTS OF SIN, AND, FIRST, OF THE CORRUPTION OF THE GOOD OF NATURE (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the effects of sin; and (1) the corruption of the good of nature; (2)
the stain on the soul; (3) the debt of punishment.

Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the good of nature is diminished by sin?

(2) Whether it can be taken away altogether?

(3) Of the four wounds, mentioned by Bede, with which human nature is stricken in consequence
of sin.

(4) Whether privation of mode, species and order is an effect of sin?

(5) Whether death and other bodily defects are the result of sin?

(6) Whether they are, in any way, natural to man?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 85, Art. 1]

Whether Sin Diminishes the Good of Nature?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin does not diminish the good of nature. For man's sin is
no worse than the devil's. But natural good remains unimpaired in devils after sin, as Dionysius
states (Div. Nom. iv). Therefore neither does sin diminish the good of human nature.

Obj. 2: Further, when that which follows is changed, that which precedes remains unchanged,
since substance remains the same when its accidents are changed. But nature exists before the
voluntary action. Therefore, when sin has caused a disorder in a voluntary act, nature is not
changed on that account, so that the good of nature be diminished.

Obj. 3: Further, sin is an action, while diminution is a passion. Now no agent is passive by
the very reason of its acting, although it is possible for it to act on one thing, and to be
passive as regards another. Therefore he who sins, does not, by his sin, diminish the good
of his nature.

Obj. 4: Further, no accident acts on its subject: because that which is patient is a potential
being, while that which is subjected to an accident, is already an actual being as regards
that accident. But sin is in the good of nature as an accident in a subject. Therefore sin
does not diminish the good of nature, since to diminish is to act.

On the contrary, "A certain man going down from Jerusalem to Jericho (Luke 10:30), i.e. to
the corruption of sin, was stripped of his gifts, and wounded in his nature," as Bede [*The
quotation is from the Glossa Ordinaria of Strabo] expounds the passage. Therefore sin diminishes
the good of nature.

I answer that, The good of human nature is threefold. First, there are the principles of which
nature is constituted, and the properties that flow from them, such as the powers of the soul,
and so forth. Secondly, since man has from nature an inclination to virtue, as stated above
(Q. 60, A. 1; Q. 63, A. 1), this inclination to virtue is a good of nature. Thirdly, the gift
of original justice, conferred on the whole of human nature in the person of the first man,
may be called a good of nature.

Accordingly, the first-mentioned good of nature is neither destroyed nor diminished by sin.
The third good of nature was entirely destroyed through the sin of our first parent. But the
second good of nature, viz. the natural inclination to virtue, is diminished by sin. Because
human acts produce an inclination to like acts, as stated above (Q. 50, A. 1). Now from the
very fact that thing becomes inclined to one of two contraries, its inclination to the other
contrary must needs be diminished. Wherefore as sin is opposed to virtue, from the very fact
that a man sins, there results a diminution of that good of nature, which is the inclination
to virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Dionysius is speaking of the first-mentioned good of nature, which consists in
"being, living and understanding," as anyone may see who reads the context.

Reply Obj. 2: Although nature precedes the voluntary action, it has an inclination to a certain
voluntary action. Wherefore nature is not changed in itself, through a change in the voluntary
action: it is the inclination that is changed in so far as it is directed to its term.

Reply Obj. 3: A voluntary action proceeds from various powers, active and passive. The result
is that through voluntary actions something is caused or taken away in the man who acts, as
we have stated when treating of the production of habits (Q. 51, A. 2).

Reply Obj. 4: An accident does not act effectively on its subject, but it acts on it formally,
in the same sense as when we say that whiteness makes a thing white. In this way there is nothing
to hinder sin from diminishing the good of nature; but only in so far as sin is itself a diminution
of the good of nature, through being an inordinateness of action. But as regards the inordinateness
of the agent, we must say that such like inordinateness is caused by the fact that in the acts
of the soul, there is an active, and a passive element: thus the sensible object moves the
sensitive appetite, and the sensitive appetite inclines the reason and will, as stated above
(Q. 77, AA. 1, 2). The result of this is the inordinateness, not as though an accident acted
on its own subject, but in so far as the object acts on the power, and one power acts on another
and puts it out of order.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 85, Art. 2]

Whether the Entire Good of Human Nature Can Be Destroyed by Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the entire good of human nature can be destroyed by sin. For
the good of human nature is finite, since human nature itself is finite. Now any finite thing
is entirely taken away, if the subtraction be continuous. Since therefore the good of nature
can be continually diminished by sin, it seems that in the end it can be entirely taken away.

Obj. 2: Further, in a thing of one nature, the whole and the parts are uniform, as is evidently
the case with air, water, flesh and all bodies with similar parts. But the good of nature is
wholly uniform. Since therefore a part thereof can be taken away by sin, it seems that the
whole can also be taken away by sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the good of nature, that is weakened by sin, is aptitude for virtue. Now this
aptitude is destroyed entirely in some on account of sin: thus the lost cannot be restored
to virtue any more than the blind can to sight. Therefore sin can take away the good of nature
entirely.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Enchiridion xiv) that "evil does not exist except in some
good." But the evil of sin cannot be in the good of virtue or of grace, because they are contrary
to it. Therefore it must be in the good of nature, and consequently it does not destroy it
entirely.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the good of nature, that is diminished by sin, is the
natural inclination to virtue, which is befitting to man from the very fact that he is a rational
being; for it is due to this that he performs actions in accord with reason, which is to act
virtuously. Now sin cannot entirely take away from man the fact that he is a rational being,
for then he would no longer be capable of sin. Wherefore it is not possible for this good of
nature to be destroyed entirely.

Since, however, this same good of nature may be continually diminished by sin, some, in order
to illustrate this, have made use of the example of a finite thing being diminished indefinitely,
without being entirely destroyed. For the Philosopher says (Phys. i, text. 37) that if from
a finite magnitude a continual subtraction be made in the same quantity, it will at last be
entirely destroyed, for instance if from any finite length I continue to subtract the length
of a span. If, however, the subtraction be made each time in the same proportion, and not in
the same quantity, it may go on indefinitely, as, for instance, if a quantity be halved, and
one half be diminished by half, it will be possible to go on thus indefinitely, provided that
what is subtracted in each case be less than what was subtracted before. But this does not
apply to the question at issue, since a subsequent sin does not diminish the good of nature
less than a previous sin, but perhaps more, if it be a more grievous sin.

We must, therefore, explain the matter otherwise by saying that the aforesaid inclination is
to be considered as a middle term between two others: for it is based on the rational nature
as on its root, and tends to the good of virtue, as to its term and end. Consequently its diminution
may be understood in two ways: first, on the part of its root, secondly, on the part of its
term. In the first way, it is not diminished by sin, because sin does not diminish nature,
as stated above (A. 1). But it is diminished in the second way, in so far as an obstacle is
placed against its attaining its term. Now if it were diminished in the first way, it would
needs be entirely destroyed at last by the rational nature being entirely destroyed. Since,
however, it is diminished on the part of the obstacle which is placed against its attaining
its term, it is evident that it can be diminished indefinitely, because obstacles can be placed
indefinitely, inasmuch as man can go on indefinitely adding sin to sin: and yet it cannot be
destroyed entirely, because the root of this inclination always remains. An example of this
may be seen in a transparent body, which has an inclination to receive light, from the very
fact that it is transparent; yet this inclination or aptitude is diminished on the part of
supervening clouds, although it always remains rooted in the nature of the body.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection avails when diminution is made by subtraction. But here the diminution
is made by raising obstacles, and this neither diminishes nor destroys the root of the inclination,
as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: The natural inclination is indeed wholly uniform: nevertheless it stands in relation
both to its principle and to its term, in respect of which diversity of relation, it is diminished
on the one hand, and not on the other.

Reply Obj. 3: Even in the lost the natural inclination to virtue remains, else they would have
no remorse of conscience. That it is not reduced to act is owing to their being deprived of
grace by Divine justice. Thus even in a blind man the aptitude to see remains in the very root
of his nature, inasmuch as he is an animal naturally endowed with sight: yet this aptitude
is not reduced to act, for the lack of a cause capable of reducing it, by forming the organ
requisite for sight.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 85, Art. 3]

Whether Weakness, Ignorance, Malice and Concupiscence Are Suitably Reckoned As the Wounds of
Nature Consequent Upon Sin? For one same thing is not both effect and cause of the same thing.
But these are reckoned to be causes of sin, as appears from what has been said above (Q. 76,
A. 1; Q. 77, AA. 3, 5; Q. 78, A. 1). Therefore they should not be reckoned as effects of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, malice is the name of a sin. Therefore it should have no place among the effects
of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, concupiscence is something natural, since it is an act of the concupiscible
power. But that which is natural should not be reckoned a wound of nature. Therefore concupiscence
should not be reckoned a wound of nature.

Obj. 4: Further, it has been stated (Q. 77, A. 3) that to sin from weakness is the same as
to sin from passion. But concupiscence is a passion. Therefore it should not be condivided
with weakness.

Obj. 5: Further, Augustine (De Nat. et Grat. lxvii, 67) reckons "two things to be punishments
inflicted on the soul of the sinner, viz. ignorance and difficulty," from which arise "error
and vexation," which four do not coincide with the four in question. Therefore it seems that
one or the other reckoning is incomplete.

On the contrary, The authority of Bede suffices [*Reference not known].

I answer that, As a result of original justice, the reason had perfect hold over the lower
parts of the soul, while reason itself was perfected by God, and was subject to Him. Now this
same original justice was forfeited through the sin of our first parent, as already stated
(Q. 81, A. 2); so that all the powers of the soul are left, as it were, destitute of their
proper order, whereby they are naturally directed to virtue; which destitution is called a
wounding of nature.

Again, there are four of the soul's powers that can be subject of virtue, as stated above (Q.
61, A. 2), viz. the reason, where prudence resides, the will, where justice is, the irascible,
the subject of fortitude, and the concupiscible, the subject of temperance. Therefore in so
far as the reason is deprived of its order to the true, there is the wound of ignorance; in
so far as the will is deprived of its order of good, there is the wound of malice; in so far
as the irascible is deprived of its order to the arduous, there is the wound of weakness; and
in so far as the concupiscible is deprived of its order to the delectable, moderated by reason,
there is the wound of concupiscence.

Accordingly these are the four wounds inflicted on the whole of human nature as a result of
our first parent's sin. But since the inclination to the good of virtue is diminished in each
individual on account of actual sin, as was explained above (AA. 1, 2), these four wounds are
also the result of other sins, in so far as, through sin, the reason is obscured, especially
in practical matters, the will hardened to evil, good actions become more difficult and concupiscence
more impetuous.

Reply Obj. 1: There is no reason why the effect of one sin should not be the cause of another:
because the soul, through sinning once, is more easily inclined to sin again.

Reply Obj. 2: Malice is not to be taken here as a sin, but as a certain proneness of the will
to evil, according to the words of Gen. 8:21: "Man's senses are prone to evil from his youth"
[*Vulgate: 'The imagination and thought of man's heart are prone to evil from his youth.'].

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 82, A. 3, ad 1), concupiscence is natural to man, in so far
as it is subject to reason: whereas, in so far as it is goes beyond the bounds of reason, it
is unnatural to man.

Reply Obj. 4: Speaking in a general way, every passion can be called a weakness, in so far
as it weakens the soul's strength and clogs the reason. Bede, however, took weakness in the
strict sense, as contrary to fortitude which pertains to the irascible.

Reply Obj. 5: The "difficulty" which is mentioned in this book of Augustine, includes the three
wounds affecting the appetitive powers, viz. "malice," "weakness" and "concupiscence," for
it is owing to these three that a man finds it difficult to tend to the good. "Error" and "vexation"
are consequent wounds, since a man is vexed through being weakened in respect of the objects
of his concupiscence.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 85, Art. 4]

Whether Privation of Mode, Species and Order Is the Effect of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that privation of mode, species and order is not the effect of sin.
For Augustine says (De Natura Boni iii) that "where these three abound, the good is great;
where they are less, there is less good; where they are not, there is no good at all." But
sin does not destroy the good of nature. Therefore it does not destroy mode, species and order.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing is its own cause. Therefore privation of mode, species and order is
not the effect of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, different effects result from different sins. Now since mode, species and
order are diverse, their corresponding privations must be diverse also, and, consequently,
must be the result of different sins. Therefore privation of mode, species and order is not
the effect of each sin.

On the contrary, Sin is to the soul what weakness is to the body, according to Ps. 6:3, "Have
mercy on me, O Lord, for I am weak." Now weakness deprives the body of mode, species and order.

I answer that, As stated in the First Part, Q. 5, A. 5, mode, species and order are consequent
upon every created good, as such, and also upon every being. Because every being and every
good as such depends on its form from which it derives its species. Again, any kind of form,
whether substantial or accidental, of anything whatever, is according to some measure, wherefore
it is stated in Metaph. viii, that "the forms of things are like numbers," so that a form has
a certain mode corresponding to its measure. Lastly owing to its form, each thing has a relation
of order to something else.

Accordingly there are different grades of mode, species and order, corresponding to the different
degrees of good. For there is a good belonging to the very substance of nature, which good
has its mode, species and order, and is neither destroyed nor diminished by sin. There is again
the good of the natural inclination, which also has its mode, species and order; and this is
diminished by sin, as stated above (AA. 1, 2), but is not entirely destroyed. Again, there
is the good of virtue and grace: this too has its mode, species and order, and is entirely
taken away by sin. Lastly, there is a good consisting in the ordinate act itself, which also
has its mode, species and order, the privation of which is essentially sin. Hence it is clear
both how sin is privation of mode, species and order, and how it destroys or diminishes mode,
species and order.

This suffices for the Replies to the first two Objections.

Reply Obj. 3: Mode, species and order follow one from the other, as explained above: and so
they are destroyed or diminished together.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 85, Art. 5]

Whether Death and Other Bodily Defects Are the Result of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that death and other bodily defects are not the result of sin. Because
equal causes have equal effects. Now these defects are not equal in all, but abound in some
more than in others, whereas original sin, from which especially these defects seem to result,
is equal in all, as stated above (Q. 82, A. 4). Therefore death and suchlike defects are not
the result of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, if the cause is removed, the effect is removed. But these defects are not
removed, when all sin is removed by Baptism or Penance. Therefore they are not the effect of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, actual sin has more of the character of guilt than original sin has. But actual
sin does not change the nature of the body by subjecting it to some defect. Much less, therefore,
does original sin. By reason of itself, one thing is the cause of another, if it produces its
effect by reason of the power of its nature or form, the result being that the effect is directly
intended by the cause. Consequently, as death and such like defects are beside the intention
of the sinner, it is evident that sin is not, of itself, the cause of these defects. Accidentally,
one thing is the cause of another if it causes it by removing an obstacle: thus it is stated
in Phys. viii, text. 32, that "by displacing a pillar a man moves accidentally the stone resting
thereon." In this way the sin of our first parent is the cause of death and all such like defects
in human nature, in so far as by the sin of our first parent original justice was taken away,
whereby not only were the lower powers of the soul held together under the control of reason,
without any disorder whatever, but also the whole body was held together in subjection to the
soul, without any defect, as stated in the First Part (Q. 97, A. 1). Wherefore, original justice
being forfeited through the sin of our first parent; just as human nature was stricken in the
soul by the disorder among the powers, as stated above (A. 3; Q. 82, A. 3), so also it became
subject to corruption, by reason of disorder in the body.

Now the withdrawal of original justice has the character of punishment, even as the withdrawal
of grace has. Consequently, death and all consequent bodily defects are punishments of original
sin. And although the defects are not intended by the sinner, nevertheless they are ordered
according to the justice of God Who inflicts them as punishments.

Reply Obj. 1: Causes that produce their effects of themselves, if equal, produce equal effects:
for if such causes be increased or diminished, the effect is increased or diminished. But equal
causes of an obstacle being removed, do not point to equal effects. For supposing a man employs
equal force in displacing two columns, it does not follow that the movements of the stones
resting on them will be equal; but that one will move with greater velocity, which has the
greater weight according to the property of its nature, to which it is left when the obstacle
to its falling is removed. Accordingly, when original justice is removed, the nature of the
human body is left to itself, so that according to diverse natural temperaments, some men's
bodies are subject to more defects, some to fewer, although original sin is equal in all.

Reply Obj. 2: Both original and actual sin are removed by the same cause that removes these
defects, according to the Apostle (Rom. 8:11): "He . . . shall quicken . . . your mortal bodies,
because of His Spirit that dwelleth in you": but each is done according to the order of Divine
wisdom, at a fitting time. Because it is right that we should first of all be conformed to
Christ's sufferings, before attaining to the immortality and impassibility of glory, which
was begun in Him, and by Him acquired for us. Hence it behooves that our bodies should remain,
for a time, subject to suffering, in order that we may merit the impassibility of glory, in
conformity with Christ.

Reply Obj. 3: Two things may be considered in actual sin, the substance of the act, and the
aspect of fault. As regards the substance of the act, actual sin can cause a bodily defect:
thus some sicken and die through eating too much. But as regards the fault, it deprives us
of grace which is given to us that we may regulate the acts of the soul, but not that we may
ward off defects of the body, as original justice did. Wherefore actual sin does not cause
those defects, as original sin does.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 85, Art. 6]

Whether Death and Other Defects Are Natural to Man?

Objection 1: It would seem that death and such like defects are natural to man. For "the corruptible
and the incorruptible differ generically" (Metaph. x, text. 26). But man is of the same genus
as other animals which are naturally corruptible. Therefore man is naturally corruptible.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is composed of contraries is naturally corruptible, as having within
itself the cause of corruption. But such is the human body. Therefore it is naturally corruptible.

Obj. 3: Further, a hot thing naturally consumes moisture. Now human life is preserved by hot
and moist elements. Since therefore the vital functions are fulfilled by the action of natural
heat, as stated in De Anima ii, text. 50, it seems that death and such like defects are natural
to man.

On the contrary, (1) God made in man whatever is natural to him. Now "God made not death" (Wis.
1:13). Therefore death is not natural to man.

(2) Further, that which is natural cannot be called either a punishment or an evil: since what
is natural to a thing is suitable to it. But death and such like defects are the punishment
of original sin, as stated above (A. 5). Therefore they are not natural to man.

(3) Further, matter is proportionate to form, and everything to its end. Now man's end is everlasting
happiness, as stated above (Q. 2, A. 7; Q. 5, AA. 3, 4): and the form of the human body is
the rational soul, as was proved in the First Part (Q. 75, A. 6). Therefore the human body
is naturally incorruptible.

I answer that, We may speak of any corruptible thing in two ways; first, in respect of its
universal nature, secondly, as regards its particular nature. A thing's particular nature is
its own power of action and self-preservation. And in respect of this nature, every corruption
and defect is contrary to nature, as stated in De Coelo ii, text. 37, since this power tends
to the being and preservation of the thing to which it belongs.

On the other hand, the universal nature is an active force in some universal principle of nature,
for instance in some heavenly body; or again belonging to some superior substance, in which
sense God is said by some to be "the Nature Who makes nature." This force intends the good
and the preservation of the universe, for which alternate generation and corruption in things
are requisite: and in this respect corruption and defect in things are natural, not indeed
as regards the inclination of the form which is the principle of being and perfection, but
as regards the inclination of matter which is allotted proportionately to its particular form
according to the discretion of the universal agent. And although every form intends perpetual
being as far as it can, yet no form of a corruptible being can achieve its own perpetuity,
except the rational soul; for the reason that the latter is not entirely subject to matter,
as other forms are; indeed it has an immaterial operation of its own, as stated in the First
Part (Q. 75, A. 2). Consequently as regards his form, incorruption is more natural to man than
to other corruptible things. But since that very form has a matter composed of contraries,
from the inclination of that matter there results corruptibility in the whole. In this respect
man is naturally corruptible as regards the nature of his matter left to itself, but not as
regards the nature of his form.

The first three objections argue on the side of the matter; while the other three argue on
the side of the form. Wherefore in order to solve them, we must observe that the form of man
which is the rational soul, in respect of its incorruptibility is adapted to its end, which
is everlasting happiness: whereas the human body, which is corruptible, considered in respect
of its nature, is, in a way, adapted to its form, and, in another way, it is not. For we may
note a twofold condition in any matter, one which the agent chooses, and another which is not
chosen by the agent, and is a natural condition of matter. Thus, a smith in order to make a
knife, chooses a matter both hard and flexible, which can be sharpened so as to be useful for
cutting, and in respect of this condition iron is a matter adapted for a knife: but that iron
be breakable and inclined to rust, results from the natural disposition of iron, nor does the
workman choose this in the iron, indeed he would do without it if he could: wherefore this
disposition of matter is not adapted to the workman's intention, nor to the purpose of his
art. In like manner the human body is the matter chosen by nature in respect of its being of
a mixed temperament, in order that it may be most suitable as an organ of touch and of the
other sensitive and motive powers. Whereas the fact that it is corruptible is due to a condition
of matter, and is not chosen by nature: indeed nature would choose an incorruptible matter
if it could. But God, to Whom every nature is subject, in forming man supplied the defect of
nature, and by the gift of original justice, gave the body a certain incorruptibility, as was
stated in the First Part (Q. 97, A. 1). It is in this sense that it is said that "God made
not death," and that death is the punishment of sin.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections.

QUESTION 86

OF THE STAIN OF SIN (In Two Articles)

We must now consider the stain of sin; under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether an effect of sin is a stain on the soul?

(2) Whether it remains in the soul after the act of sin?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 86, Art. 1]

Whether Sin Causes a Stain on the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin causes no stain on the soul. For a higher nature cannot
be defiled by contact with a lower nature: hence the sun's ray is not defiled by contact with
tainted bodies, as Augustine says (Contra Quinque Haereses v). Now the human soul is of a much
higher nature than mutable things, to which it turns by sinning. Therefore it does not contract
a stain from them by sinning.

Obj. 2: Further, sin is chiefly in the will, as stated above (Q. 74, AA. 1, 2). Now the will
is in the reason, as stated in De Anima iii, text. 42. But the reason or intellect is not stained
by considering anything whatever; rather indeed is it perfected thereby. Therefore neither
is the will stained by sin.

Obj. 3: Further, if sin causes a stain, this stain is either something positive, or a pure
privation. If it be something positive, it can only be either a disposition or a habit: for
it seems that nothing else can be caused by an act. But it is neither disposition nor habit:
for it happens that a stain remains even after the removal of a disposition or habit; for instance,
in a man who after committing a mortal sin of prodigality, is so changed as to fall into a
sin of the opposite vice. Therefore the stain does not denote anything positive in the soul.
Again, neither is it a pure privation. Because all sins agree on the part of aversion and privation
of grace: and so it would follow that there is but one stain caused by all sins. Therefore
the stain is not the effect of sin.

On the contrary, It was said to Solomon (Ecclus. 47:22): "Thou hast stained thy glory": and
it is written (Eph. 5:27): "That He might present it to Himself a glorious church not having
spot or wrinkle": and in each case it is question of the stain of sin. Therefore a stain is
the effect of sin.

I answer that, A stain is properly ascribed to corporeal things, when a comely body loses its
comeliness through contact with another body, e.g. a garment, gold or silver, or the like.
Accordingly a stain is ascribed to spiritual things in like manner. Now man's soul has a twofold
comeliness; one from the refulgence of the natural light of reason, whereby he is directed
in his actions; the other, from the refulgence of the Divine light, viz. of wisdom and grace,
whereby man is also perfected for the purpose of doing good and fitting actions. Now, when
the soul cleaves to things by love, there is a kind of contact in the soul: and when man sins,
he cleaves to certain things, against the light of reason and of the Divine law, as shown above
(Q. 71, A. 6). Wherefore the loss of comeliness occasioned by this contact, is metaphorically
called a stain on the soul.

Reply Obj. 1: The soul is not defiled by inferior things, by their own power, as though they
acted on the soul: on the contrary, the soul, by its own action, defiles itself, through cleaving
to them inordinately, against the light of reason and of the Divine law.

Reply Obj. 2: The action of the intellect is accomplished by the intelligible thing being in
the intellect, according to the mode of the intellect, so that the intellect is not defiled,
but perfected, by them. On the other hand, the act of the will consists in a movement towards
things themselves, so that love attaches the soul to the thing loved. Thus it is that the soul
is stained, when it cleaves inordinately, according to Osee 9:10: "They . . . became abominable
as those things were which they loved."

Reply Obj. 3: The stain is neither something positive in the soul, nor does it denote a pure
privation: it denotes a privation of the soul's brightness in relation to its cause, which
is sin; wherefore diverse sins occasion diverse stains. It is like a shadow, which is the privation
of light through the interposition of a body, and which varies according to the diversity of
the interposed bodies.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 86, Art. 2]

Whether the Stain Remains in the Soul After the Act of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the stain does not remain in the soul after the act of sin.
For after an action, nothing remains in the soul except habit or disposition. But the stain
is not a habit or disposition, as stated above (A. 1, Obj. 3). Therefore the stain does not
remain in the soul after the act of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, the stain is to the sin what the shadow is to the body, as stated above (A.
1, ad 3). But the shadow does not remain when the body has passed by. Therefore the stain does
not remain in the soul when the act of sin is past.

Obj. 3: Further, every effect depends on its cause. Now the cause of the stain is the act of
sin. Therefore when the act of sin is no longer there, neither is the stain in the soul.

On the contrary, It is written (Jos. 22:17): "Is it a small thing to you that you sinned with
Beelphegor, and the stain of that crime remaineth in you [Vulg.: 'us'] to this day?"

I answer that, The stain of sin remains in the soul even when the act of sin is past. The reason
for this is that the stain, as stated above (A. 1), denotes a blemish in the brightness of
the soul, on account of its withdrawing from the light of reason or of the Divine law. And
therefore so long as man remains out of this light, the stain of sin remains in him: but as
soon as, moved by grace, he returns to the Divine light and to the light of reason, the stain
is removed. For although the act of sin ceases, whereby man withdrew from the light of reason
and of the Divine law, man does not at once return to the state in which he was before, and
it is necessary that his will should have a movement contrary to the previous movement. Thus
if one man be parted from another on account of some kind of movement, he is not reunited to
him as soon as the movement ceases, but he needs to draw nigh to him and to return by a contrary
movement.

Reply Obj. 1: Nothing positive remains in the soul after the act of sin, except the disposition
or habit; but there does remain something privative, viz. the privation of union with the Divine
light.

Reply Obj. 2: After the interposed body has passed by, the transparent body remains in the
same position and relation as regards the illuminating body, and so the shadow passes at once.
But when the sin is past, the soul does not remain in the same relation to God: and so there
is no comparison.

Reply Obj. 3: The act of sin parts man from God, which parting causes the defect of brightness,
just as local movement causes local parting. Wherefore, just as when movement ceases, local
distance is not removed, so neither, when the act of sin ceases, is the stain removed.

QUESTION 87

OF THE DEBT OF PUNISHMENT (In Eight Articles)

We must now consider the debt of punishment. We shall consider (1) the debt itself; (2) mortal
and venial sin, which differ in respect of the punishment due to them.

Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the debt of punishment is an effect of sin?

(2) Whether one sin can be the punishment of another?

(3) Whether any sin incurs a debt of eternal punishment?

(4) Whether sin incurs a debt of punishment that is infinite in quantity?

(5) Whether every sin incurs a debt of eternal and infinite punishment?

(6) Whether the debt of punishment can remain after sin?

(7) Whether every punishment is inflicted for a sin?

(8) Whether one person can incur punishment for another's sin?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 1]

Whether the Debt of Punishment Is an Effect of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the debt of punishment is not an effect of sin. For that which
is accidentally related to a thing, does not seem to be its proper effect. Now the debt of
punishment is accidentally related to sin, for it is beside the intention of the sinner. Therefore
the debt of punishment is not an effect of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, evil is not the cause of good. But punishment is good, since it is just, and
is from God. Therefore it is not an effect of sin, which is evil.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (Confess. i) that "every inordinate affection is its own punishment."
But punishment does not incur a further debt of punishment, because then it would go on indefinitely.
Therefore sin does not incur the debt of punishment.

On the contrary, It is written (Rom. 2:9): "Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man
that worketh evil." But to work evil is to sin. Therefore sin incurs a punishment which is
signified by the words "tribulation and anguish."

I answer that, It has passed from natural things to human affairs that whenever one thing rises
up against another, it suffers some detriment therefrom. For we observe in natural things that
when one contrary supervenes, the other acts with greater energy, for which reason "hot water
freezes more rapidly," as stated in Meteor. i, 12. Wherefore we find that the natural inclination
of man is to repress those who rise up against him. Now it is evident that all things contained
in an order, are, in a manner, one, in relation to the principle of that order. Consequently,
whatever rises up against an order, is put down by that order or by the principle thereof.
And because sin is an inordinate act, it is evident that whoever sins, commits an offense against
an order: wherefore he is put down, in consequence, by that same order, which repression is
punishment.

Accordingly, man can be punished with a threefold punishment corresponding to the three orders
to which the human will is subject. In the first place a man's nature is subjected to the order
of his own reason; secondly, it is subjected to the order of another man who governs him either
in spiritual or in temporal matters, as a member either of the state or of the household; thirdly,
it is subjected to the universal order of the Divine government. Now each of these orders is
disturbed by sin, for the sinner acts against his reason, and against human and Divine law.
Wherefore he incurs a threefold punishment; one, inflicted by himself, viz. remorse of conscience;
another, inflicted by man; and a third, inflicted by God.

Reply Obj. 1: Punishment follows sin, inasmuch as this is an evil by reason of its being inordinate.
Wherefore just as evil is accidental to the sinner's act, being beside his intention, so also
is the debt of punishment.

Reply Obj. 2: Further, a just punishment may be inflicted either by God or by man: wherefore
the punishment itself is the effect of sin, not directly but dispositively. Sin, however, makes
man deserving of punishment, and that is an evil: for Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "punishment
is not an evil, but to deserve punishment is." Consequently the debt of punishment is considered
to be directly the effect of sin.

Reply Obj. 3: This punishment of the inordinate affection is due to sin as overturning the
order of reason. Nevertheless sin incurs a further punishment, through disturbing the order
of the Divine or human law.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 2]

Whether Sin Can Be the Punishment of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin cannot be the punishment of sin. For the purpose of punishment
is to bring man back to the good of virtue, as the Philosopher declares (Ethic. x, 9). Now
sin does not bring man back to the good of virtue, but leads him in the opposite direction.
Therefore sin is not the punishment of sin.

Obj. 2: Further, just punishments are from God, as Augustine says (Qq. lxxxiii, qu. 82). But
sin is not from God, and is an injustice. Therefore sin cannot be the punishment of sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the nature of punishment is to be something against the will. But sin is something
from the will, as shown above (Q. 74, AA. 1, 2). Therefore sin cannot be the punishment of sin.

On the contrary, Gregory speaks (Hom. xi in Ezech.) that some sins are punishments of others.

I answer that, We may speak of sin in two ways: first, in its essence, as such; secondly, as
to that which is accidental thereto. Sin as such can nowise be the punishment of another. Because
sin considered in its essence is something proceeding from the will, for it is from this that
it derives the character of guilt. Whereas punishment is essentially something against the
will, as stated in the First Part (Q. 48, A. 5). Consequently it is evident that sin regarded
in its essence can nowise be the punishment of sin.

On the other hand, sin can be the punishment of sin accidentally in three ways. First, when
one sin is the cause of another, by removing an impediment thereto. For passions, temptations
of the devil, and the like are causes of sin, but are impeded by the help of Divine grace which
is withdrawn on account of sin. Wherefore since the withdrawal of grace is a punishment, and
is from God, as stated above (Q. 79, A. 3), the result is that the sin which ensues from this
is also a punishment accidentally. It is in this sense that the Apostle speaks (Rom. 1:24)
when he says: "Wherefore God gave them up to the desires of their heart," i.e. to their passions;
because, to wit, when men are deprived of the help of Divine grace, they are overcome by their
passions. In this way sin is always said to be the punishment of a preceding sin. Secondly,
by reason of the substance of the act, which is such as to cause pain, whether it be an interior
act, as is clearly the case with anger or envy, or an exterior act, as is the case with one
who endures considerable trouble and loss in order to achieve a sinful act, according to Wis.
5:7: "We wearied ourselves in the way of iniquity." Thirdly, on the part of the effect, so
that one sin is said to be a punishment by reason of its effect. In the last two ways, a sin
is a punishment not only in respect of a preceding sin, but also with regard to itself.

Reply Obj. 1: Even when God punishes men by permitting them to fall into sin, this is directed
to the good of virtue. Sometimes indeed it is for the good of those who are punished, when,
to wit, men arise from sin, more humble and more cautious. But it is always for the amendment
of others, who seeing some men fall from sin to sin, are the more fearful of sinning. With
regard to the other two ways, it is evident that the punishment is intended for the sinner's
amendment, since the very fact that man endures toil and loss in sinning, is of a nature to
withdraw man from sin.

Reply Obj. 2: This objection considers sin essentially as such: and the same answer applies
to the Third Objection.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 3]

Whether Any Sin Incurs a Debt of Eternal Punishment?

Objection 1: It would seem that no sin incurs a debt of eternal punishment. For a just punishment
is equal to the fault, since justice is equality: wherefore it is written (Isa. 27:8): "In
measure against measure, when it shall be cast off, thou shalt judge it." Now sin is temporal.
Therefore it does not incur a debt of eternal punishment.

Obj. 2: Further, "punishments are a kind of medicine" (Ethic. ii, 3). But no medicine should
be infinite, because it is directed to an end, and "what is directed to an end, is not infinite,"
as the Philosopher states (Polit. i, 6). Therefore no punishment should be infinite.

Obj. 3: Further, no one does a thing always unless he delights in it for its own sake. But
"God hath not pleasure in the destruction of men" [Vulg.: 'of the living']. Therefore He will
not inflict eternal punishment on man.

Obj. 4: Further, nothing accidental is infinite. But punishment is accidental, for it is not
natural to the one who is punished. Therefore it cannot be of infinite duration.

On the contrary, It is written (Matt. 25:46): "These shall go into everlasting punishment";
and (Mk. 3:29): "He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost, shall never have forgiveness,
but shall be guilty of an everlasting sin."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), sin incurs a debt of punishment through disturbing an
order. But the effect remains so long as the cause remains. Wherefore so long as the disturbance
of the order remains the debt of punishment must needs remain also. Now disturbance of an order
is sometimes reparable, sometimes irreparable: because a defect which destroys the principle
is irreparable, whereas if the principle be saved, defects can be repaired by virtue of that
principle. For instance, if the principle of sight be destroyed, sight cannot be restored except
by Divine power; whereas, if the principle of sight be preserved, while there arise certain
impediments to the use of sight, these can be remedied by nature or by art. Now in every order
there is a principle whereby one takes part in that order. Consequently if a sin destroys the
principle of the order whereby man's will is subject to God, the disorder will be such as to
be considered in itself, irreparable, although it is possible to repair it by the power of
God. Now the principle of this order is the last end, to which man adheres by charity. Therefore
whatever sins turn man away from God, so as to destroy charity, considered in themselves, incur
a debt of eternal punishment.

Reply Obj. 1: Punishment is proportionate to sin in point of severity, both in Divine and in
human judgments. In no judgment, however, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xxi, 11) is it requisite
for punishment to equal fault in point of duration. For the fact that adultery or murder is
committed in a moment does not call for a momentary punishment: in fact they are punished sometimes
by imprisonment or banishment for life--sometimes even by death; wherein account is not taken
of the time occupied in killing, but rather of the expediency of removing the murderer from
the fellowship of the living, so that this punishment, in its own way, represents the eternity
of punishment inflicted by God. Now according to Gregory (Dial. iv, 44) it is just that he
who has sinned against God in his own eternity should be punished in God's eternity. A man
is said to have sinned in his own eternity, not only as regards continual sinning throughout
his whole life, but also because, from the very fact that he fixes his end in sin, he has the
will to sin, everlastingly. Wherefore Gregory says (Dial. iv, 44) that the "wicked would wish
to live without end, that they might abide in their sins for ever."

Reply Obj. 2: Even the punishment that is inflicted according to human laws, is not always
intended as a medicine for the one who is punished, but sometimes only for others: thus when
a thief is hanged, this is not for his own amendment, but for the sake of others, that at least
they may be deterred from crime through fear of the punishment, according to Prov. 19:25: "The
wicked man being scourged, the fool shall be wiser." Accordingly the eternal punishments inflicted
by God on the reprobate, are medicinal punishments for those who refrain from sin through the
thought of those punishments, according to Ps. 59:6: "Thou hast given a warning to them that
fear Thee, that they may flee from before the bow, that Thy beloved may be delivered."

Reply Obj. 3: God does not delight in punishments for their own sake; but He does delight in
the order of His justice, which requires them.

Reply Obj. 4: Although punishment is related indirectly to nature, nevertheless it is essentially
related to the disturbance of the order, and to God's justice. Wherefore, so long as the disturbance
lasts, the punishment endures.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 4]

Whether Sin Incurs a Debt of Punishment Infinite in Quantity?

Objection 1: It would seem that sin incurs a debt of punishment infinite in quantity. For it
is written (Jer. 10:24): "Correct me, O Lord, but yet with judgment: and not in Thy fury, lest
Thou bring me to nothing." Now God's anger or fury signifies metaphorically the vengeance of
Divine justice: and to be brought to nothing is an infinite punishment, even as to make a thing
out of nothing denotes infinite power. Therefore according to God's vengeance, sin is awarded
a punishment infinite in quantity.

Obj. Now a sin which is committed against God, is infinite: because the gravity of a sin increases
according to the greatness of the person sinned against (thus it is a more grievous sin to
strike the sovereign than a private individual), and God's greatness is infinite. Therefore
an infinite punishment is due for a sin committed against God.

Obj. 3: Further, a thing may be infinite in two ways, in duration, and in quantity. Now the
punishment is infinite in duration. Therefore it is infinite in quantity also.

On the contrary, If this were the case, the punishments of all mortal sins would be equal;
because one infinite is not greater than another.

I answer that, Punishment is proportionate to sin. Now sin comprises two things. First, there
is the turning away from the immutable good, which is infinite, wherefore, in this respect,
sin is infinite. Secondly, there is the inordinate turning to mutable good. In this respect
sin is finite, both because the mutable good itself is finite, and because the movement of
turning towards it is finite, since the acts of a creature cannot be infinite. Accordingly,
in so far as sin consists in turning away from something, its corresponding punishment is the
pain of loss, which also is infinite, because it is the loss of the infinite good, i.e. God.
But in so far as sin turns inordinately to something, its corresponding punishment is the pain
of sense, which is also finite.

Reply Obj. 1: It would be inconsistent with Divine justice for the sinner to be brought to
nothing absolutely, because this would be incompatible with the perpetuity of punishment that
Divine justice requires, as stated above (A. 3). The expression "to be brought to nothing"
is applied to one who is deprived of spiritual goods, according to 1 Cor. 13:2: "If I . . .
have not charity, I am nothing."

Reply Obj. 2: This argument considers sin as turning away from something, for it is thus that
man sins against God.

Reply Obj. 3: Duration of punishment corresponds to duration of fault, not indeed as regards
the act, but on the part of the stain, for as long as this remains, the debt of punishment
remains. But punishment corresponds to fault in the point of severity. And a fault which is
irreparable, is such that, of itself, it lasts for ever; wherefore it incurs an everlasting
punishment. But it is not infinite as regards the thing it turns to; wherefore, in this respect,
it does not incur punishment of infinite quantity.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. Now eternal punishment differs infinitely from temporal punishment:
whereas no sin, apparently, differs infinitely from another, since every sin is a human act,
which cannot be infinite. Since therefore some sins incur a debt of everlasting punishment,
as stated above (A. 4), it seems that no sin incurs a debt of mere temporal punishment.

Obj. 2: Further, original sin is the least of all sins, wherefore Augustine says (Enchiridion
xciii) that "the lightest punishment is incurred by those who are punished for original sin
alone." But original sin incurs everlasting punishment, since children who have died in original
sin through not being baptized, will never see the kingdom of God, as shown by our Lord's words
(John 3:3): "Unless a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." Much more, therefore,
will the punishments of all other sins be everlasting.

Obj. 3: Further, a sin does not deserve greater punishment through being united to another
sin; for Divine justice has allotted its punishment to each sin. Now a venial sin deserves
eternal punishment if it be united to a mortal sin in a lost soul, because in hell there is
no remission of sins. Therefore venial sin by itself deserves eternal punishment. Therefore
temporal punishment is not due for any sin.

On the contrary, Gregory says (Dial. iv, 39), that certain slighter sins are remitted after
this life. Therefore all sins are not punished eternally.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 3), a sin incurs a debt of eternal punishment, in so far
as it causes an irreparable disorder in the order of Divine justice, through being contrary
to the very principle of that order, viz. the last end. Now it is evident that in some sins
there is disorder indeed, but such as not to involve contrariety in respect of the last end,
but only in respect of things referable to the end, in so far as one is too much or too little
intent on them without prejudicing the order to the last end: as, for instance, when a man
is too fond of some temporal thing, yet would not offend God for its sake, by breaking one
of His commandments. Consequently such sins do not incur everlasting, but only temporal punishment.

Reply Obj. 1: Sins do not differ infinitely from one another in respect of their turning towards
mutable good, which constitutes the substance of the sinful act; but they do differ infinitely
in respect of their turning away from something. Because some sins consist in turning away
from the last end, and some in a disorder affecting things referable to the end: and the last
end differs infinitely from the things that are referred to it.

Reply Obj. 2: Original sin incurs everlasting punishment, not on account of its gravity, but
by reason of the condition of the subject, viz. a human being deprived of grace, without which
there is no remission of sin.

The same answer applies to the Third Objection about venial sin. Because eternity of punishment
does not correspond to the quantity of the sin, but to its irremissibility, as stated above (A. 3).

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 6]

Whether the Debt of Punishment Remains After Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that there remains no debt of punishment after sin. For if the cause
be removed the effect is removed. But sin is the cause of the debt of punishment. Therefore,
when the sin is removed, the debt of punishment ceases also.

Obj. 2: Further, sin is removed by man returning to virtue. Now a virtuous man deserves, not
punishment, but reward. Therefore, when sin is removed, the debt of punishment no longer remains.

Obj. 3: Further, "Punishments are a kind of medicine" (Ethic. ii, 3). But a man is not given
medicine after being cured of his disease. Therefore, when sin is removed the debt of punishment
does not remain.

On the contrary, It is written (2 Kings xii. Therefore a man is punished by God even after
his sin is forgiven: and so the debt of punishment remains, when the sin has been removed.

I answer that, Two things may be considered in sin: the guilty act, and the consequent stain.
Now it is evident that in all actual sins, when the act of sin has ceased, the guilt remains;
because the act of sin makes man deserving of punishment, in so far as he transgresses the
order of Divine justice, to which he cannot return except he pay some sort of penal compensation,
which restores him to the equality of justice; so that, according to the order of Divine justice,
he who has been too indulgent to his will, by transgressing God's commandments, suffers, either
willingly or unwillingly, something contrary to what he would wish. This restoration of the
equality of justice by penal compensation is also to be observed in injuries done to one's
fellow men. Consequently it is evident that when the sinful or injurious act has ceased there
still remains the debt of punishment.

But if we speak of the removal of sin as to the stain, it is evident that the stain of sin
cannot be removed from the soul, without the soul being united to God, since it was through
being separated from Him that it suffered the loss of its brightness, in which the stain consists,
as stated above (Q. 86, A. 1). Now man is united to God by his will. Wherefore the stain of
sin cannot be removed from man, unless his will accept the order of Divine justice, that is
to say, unless either of his own accord he take upon himself the punishment of his past sin,
or bear patiently the punishment which God inflicts on him; and in both ways punishment avails
for satisfaction. Now when punishment is satisfactory, it loses somewhat of the nature of punishment:
for the nature of punishment is to be against the will; and although satisfactory punishment,
absolutely speaking, is against the will, nevertheless in this particular case and for this
particular purpose, it is voluntary. Consequently it is voluntary simply, but involuntary in
a certain respect, as we have explained when speaking of the voluntary and the involuntary
(Q. 6, A. 6). We must, therefore, say that, when the stain of sin has been removed, there may
remain a debt of punishment, not indeed of punishment simply, but of satisfactory punishment.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as after the act of sin has ceased, the stain remains, as stated above (Q.
86, A. 2), so the debt of punishment also can remain. But when the stain has been removed,
the debt of punishment does not remain in the same way, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: The virtuous man does not deserve punishment simply, but he may deserve it as
satisfactory: because his very virtue demands that he should do satisfaction for his offenses
against God or man.

Reply Obj. 3: When the stain is removed, the wound of sin is healed as regards the will. But
punishment is still requisite in order that the other powers of the soul be healed, since they
were so disordered by the sin committed, so that, to wit, the disorder may be remedied by the
contrary of that which caused it. Moreover punishment is requisite in order to restore the
equality of justice, and to remove the scandal given to others, so that those who were scandalized
at the sin many be edified by the punishment, as may be seen in the example of David quoted above.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 7]

Whether Every Punishment Is Inflicted for a Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that not every punishment is inflicted for a sin. For it is written
(John 9:3, 2) about the man born blind: "Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents . .
. that he should be born blind." In like manner we see that many children, those also who have
been baptized, suffer grievous punishments, fevers, for instance, diabolical possession, and
so forth, and yet there is no sin in them after they have been baptized. Moreover before they
are baptized, there is no more sin in them than in the other children who do not suffer such
things. Therefore not every punishment is inflicted for a sin.

Obj. 2: Further, that sinners should thrive and that the innocent should be punished seem to
come under the same head. Now each of these is frequently observed in human affairs, for it
is written about the wicked (Ps. 72:5): "They are not in the labor of men: neither shall they
be scourged like other men"; and (Job 21:7): "[Why then do] the wicked live, are [they] advanced,
and strengthened with riches" (?)[*The words in brackets show the readings of the Vulgate];
and (Hab. 1:13): "Why lookest Thou upon the contemptuous [Vulg.: 'them that do unjust things'],
and holdest Thy peace, when the wicked man oppresseth [Vulg.: 'devoureth'], the man that is
more just than himself?" Therefore not every punishment is inflicted for a sin.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written of Christ (1 Pet. 2:22) that "He did no sin, nor was guile found
in His mouth." And yet it is said (1 Pet. 2:21) that "He suffered for us." Therefore punishment
is not always inflicted by God for sin.

On the contrary, It is written (Job 4:7, seqq.): "Who ever perished innocent? Or when were
the just destroyed? On the contrary, I have seen those who work iniquity . . . perishing by
the blast of God"; and Augustine writes (Retract. i) that "all punishment is just, and is inflicted
for a sin."

I answer that, As already stated (A. 6), punishment can be considered in two ways--simply,
and as being satisfactory. A satisfactory punishment is, in a way, voluntary. And since those
who differ as to the debt of punishment, may be one in will by the union of love, it happens
that one who has not sinned, bears willingly the punishment for another: thus even in human
affairs we see men take the debts of another upon themselves. If, however, we speak of punishment
simply, in respect of its being something penal, it has always a relation to a sin in the one
punished. Sometimes this is a relation to actual sin, as when a man is punished by God or man
for a sin committed by him. Sometimes it is a relation to original sin: and this, either principally
or consequently--principally, the punishment of original sin is that human nature is left to
itself, and deprived of original justice: and consequently, all the penalties which result
from this defect in human nature.

Nevertheless we must observe that sometimes a thing seems penal, and yet is not so simply.
Because punishment is a species of evil, as stated in the First Part (Q. 48, A. 5). Now evil
is privation of good. And since man's good is manifold, viz. good of the soul, good of the
body, and external goods, it happens sometimes that man suffers the loss of a lesser good,
that he may profit in a greater good, as when he suffers loss of money for the sake of bodily
health, or loss of both of these, for the sake of his soul's health and the glory of God. In
such cases the loss is an evil to man, not simply but relatively; wherefore it does not answer
to the name of punishment simply, but of medicinal punishment, because a medical man prescribes
bitter potions to his patients, that he may restore them to health. And since such like are
not punishments properly speaking, they are not referred to sin as their cause, except in a
restricted sense: because the very fact that human nature needs a treatment of penal medicines,
is due to the corruption of nature which is itself the punishment of original sin. For there
was no need, in the state of innocence, for penal exercises in order to make progress in virtue;
so that whatever is penal in the exercise of virtue, is reduced to original sin as its cause.

Reply Obj. 1: Such like defects of those who are born with them, or which children suffer from,
are the effects and the punishments of original sin, as stated above (Q. 85, A. 5); and they
remain even after baptism, for the cause stated above (Q. 85, A. 5, ad 2): and that they are
not equally in all, is due to the diversity of nature, which is left to itself, as stated above
(Q. 85, A. 5, ad 1). Nevertheless, they are directed by Divine providence, to the salvation
of men, either of those who suffer, or of others who are admonished by their means--and also
to the glory of God.

Reply Obj. 2: Temporal and bodily goods are indeed goods of man, but they are of small account:
whereas spiritual goods are man's chief goods. Consequently it belongs to Divine justice to
give spiritual goods to the virtuous, and to award them as much temporal goods or evils, as
suffices for virtue: for, as Dionysius says (Div. Nom. viii), "Divine justice does not enfeeble
the fortitude of the virtuous man, by material gifts." The very fact that others receive temporal
goods, is detrimental to their spiritual good; wherefore the psalm quoted concludes (verse
6): "Therefore pride hath held them fast."

Reply Obj. 3: Christ bore a satisfactory punishment, not for His, but for our sins.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 87, Art. 8]

Whether Anyone Is Punished for Another's Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that one may be punished for another's sin. For it is written (Ex.
20:5): "I am . . . 23:35): "That upon you may come all the just blood that hath been shed upon
the earth."

Obj. 2: Further, human justice springs from Divine justice. Now, according to human justice,
children are sometimes punished for their parents, as in the case of high treason. Therefore
also according to Divine justice, one is punished for another's sin.

Obj. 3: Further, if it be replied that the son is punished, not for the father's sin, but for
his own, inasmuch as he imitates his father's wickedness; this would not be said of the children
rather than of outsiders, who are punished in like manner as those whose crimes they imitate.
It seems, therefore, that children are punished, not for their own sins, but for those of their
parents.

I answer that, If we speak of that satisfactory punishment, which one takes upon oneself voluntarily,
one may bear another's punishment, in so far as they are, in some way, one, as stated above
(A. 7). If, however, we speak of punishment inflicted on account of sin, inasmuch as it is
penal, then each one is punished for his own sin only, because the sinful act is something
personal. But if we speak of a punishment that is medicinal, in this way it does happen that
one is punished for another's sin. For it has been stated (A. 7) that ills sustained in bodily
goods or even in the body itself, are medicinal punishments intended for the health of the
soul. Wherefore there is no reason why one should not have such like punishments inflicted
on one for another's sin, either by God or by man; e.g. on children for their parents, or on
servants for their masters, inasmuch as they are their property so to speak; in such a way,
however, that, if the children or the servants take part in the sin, this penal ill has the
character of punishment in regard to both the one punished and the one he is punished for.
But if they do not take part in the sin, it has the character of punishment in regard to the
one for whom the punishment is borne, while, in regard to the one who is punished, it is merely
medicinal (except accidentally, if he consent to the other's sin), since it is intended for
the good of his soul, if he bears it patiently.

With regard to spiritual punishments, these are not merely medicinal, because the good of the
soul is not directed to a yet higher good. Consequently no one suffers loss in the goods of
the soul without some fault of his own. Wherefore Augustine says (Ep. ad Avit.) [*Ep. ad Auxilium,
ccl.], such like punishments are not inflicted on one for another's sin, because, as regards
the soul, the son is not the father's property. Hence the Lord assigns the reason for this
by saying (Ezech. 18:4): "All souls are Mine."

Reply Obj. 1: Both the passages quoted should, seemingly, be referred to temporal or bodily
punishments, in so far as children are the property of their parents, and posterity, of their
forefathers. Else, if they be referred to spiritual punishments, they must be understood in
reference to the imitation of sin, wherefore in Exodus these words are added, "Of them that
hate Me," and in the chapter quoted from Matthew (verse 32) we read: "Fill ye up then the measure
of your fathers." The sins of the fathers are said to be punished in their children, because
the latter are the more prone to sin through being brought up amid their parents' crimes, both
by becoming accustomed to them, and by imitating their parents' example, conforming to their
authority as it were. Moreover they deserve heavier punishment if, seeing the punishment of
their parents, they fail to mend their ways. The text adds, "to the third and fourth generation,"
because men are wont to live long enough to see the third and fourth generation, so that both
the children can witness their parents' sins so as to imitate them, and the parents can see
their children's punishments so as to grieve for them.

Reply Obj. 2: The punishments which human justice inflicts on one for another's sin are bodily
and temporal. They are also remedies or medicines against future sins, in order that either
they who are punished, or others may be restrained from similar faults.

Reply Obj. 3: Those who are near of kin are said to be punished, rather than outsiders, for
the sins of others, both because the punishment of kindred redounds somewhat upon those who
sinned, as stated above, in so far as the child is the father's property, and because the examples
and the punishments that occur in one's own household are more moving. Consequently when a
man is brought up amid the sins of his parents, he is more eager to imitate them, and if he
is not deterred by their punishments, he would seem to be the more obstinate, and, therefore,
to deserve more severe punishment.

QUESTION 88

OF VENIAL AND MORTAL SIN (In Six Articles)

In the next place, since venial and mortal sins differ in respect of the debt of punishment,
we must consider them. First, we shall consider venial sin as compared with mortal sin; secondly,
we shall consider venial sin in itself.

Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether venial sin is fittingly condivided with mortal sin?

(2) Whether they differ generically?

(3) Whether venial sin is a disposition to mortal sin?

(4) Whether a venial sin can become mortal?

(5) Whether a venial sin can become mortal by reason of an aggravating circumstance?

(6) Whether a mortal sin can become venial?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 88, Art. 1]

Whether Venial Sin Is Fittingly Condivided with Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sin is unfittingly condivided with mortal sin. But the
fact of being against the eternal law makes a sin to be mortal. Consequently every sin is mortal.
Therefore venial sin is not condivided with mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, the Apostle says (1 Cor. 10:31): "Whether you eat or drink, or whatever else
you do; do all to the glory of God." Now whoever sins breaks this commandment, because sin
is not done for God's glory. Consequently, since to break a commandment is to commit a mortal
sin, it seems that whoever sins, sins mortally.

Obj. 3: Further, whoever cleaves to a thing by love, cleaves either as enjoying it, or as using
it, as Augustine states (De Doctr. Christ. i, 3, 4). But no person, in sinning, cleaves to
a mutable good as using it: because he does not refer it to that good which gives us happiness,
which, properly speaking, is to use, according to Augustine (De Doctr. Christ. i, 3, 4). Therefore
whoever sins enjoys a mutable good. Now "to enjoy what we should use is human perverseness,"
as Augustine again says (Qq. lxxxiii, qu. 30). Therefore, since "perverseness" [*The Latin
'pervertere' means to overthrow, to destroy, hence 'perversion' of God's law is a mortal sin.]
denotes a mortal sin, it seems that whoever sins, sins mortally.

Obj. 4: Further, whoever approaches one term, from that very fact turns away from the opposite.
Now whoever sins, approaches a mutable good, and, consequently turns away from the immutable
good, so that he sins mortally. Therefore venial sin is unfittingly condivided with mortal sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Tract. xli in Joan.), that "a crime is one that merits damnation,
and a venial sin, one that does not." But a crime denotes a mortal sin. Therefore venial sin
is fittingly condivided with mortal sin.

I answer that, Certain terms do not appear to be mutually opposed, if taken in their proper
sense, whereas they are opposed if taken metaphorically: thus "to smile" is not opposed to
"being dry"; but if we speak of the smiling meadows when they are decked with flowers and fresh
with green hues this is opposed to drought. In like manner if mortal be taken literally as
referring to the death of the body, it does not imply opposition to venial, nor belong to the
same genus. But if mortal be taken metaphorically, as applied to sin, it is opposed to that
which is venial.

For sin, being a sickness of the soul, as stated above (Q. 71, A. 1, ad 3; Q. 72, A. 5; Q.
74, A. 9, ad 2), is said to be mortal by comparison with a disease, which is said to be mortal,
through causing an irreparable defect consisting in the corruption of a principle, as stated
above (Q. 72, A. 5). Now the principle of the spiritual life, which is a life in accord with
virtue, is the order to the last end, as stated above (Q. 72, A. 5; Q. 87, A. 3): and if this
order be corrupted, it cannot be repaired by any intrinsic principle, but by the power of God
alone, as stated above (Q. 87, A. 3), because disorders in things referred to the end, are
repaired through the end, even as an error about conclusions can be repaired through the truth
of the principles. Hence the defect of order to the last end cannot be repaired through something
else as a higher principle, as neither can an error about principles. Wherefore such sins are
called mortal, as being irreparable. On the other hand, sins which imply a disorder in things
referred to the end, the order to the end itself being preserved, are reparable. These sins
are called venial: because a sin receives its acquittal (veniam) when the debt of punishment
is taken away, and this ceases when the sin ceases, as explained above (Q. 87, A. 6).

Accordingly, mortal and venial are mutually opposed as reparable and irreparable: and I say
this with reference to the intrinsic principle, but not to the Divine power, which can repair
all diseases, whether of the body or of the soul. Therefore venial sin is fittingly condivided
with mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 1: The division of sin into venial and mortal is not a division of a genus into
its species which have an equal share of the generic nature: but it is the division of an analogous
term into its parts, of which it is predicated, of the one first, and of the other afterwards.
Consequently the perfect notion of sin, which Augustine gives, applies to mortal sin. On the
other hand, venial sin is called a sin, in reference to an imperfect notion of sin, and in
relation to mortal sin: even as an accident is called a being, in relation to substance, in
reference to the imperfect notion of being. For it is not against the law, since he who sins
venially neither does what the law forbids, nor omits what the law prescribes to be done; but
he acts beside the law, through not observing the mode of reason, which the law intends.

Reply Obj. 2: This precept of the Apostle is affirmative, and so it does not bind for all times.
Consequently everyone who does not actually refer all his actions to the glory of God, does
not therefore act against this precept. In order, therefore, to avoid mortal sin each time
that one fails actually to refer an action to God's glory, it is enough to refer oneself and
all that one has to God habitually. Now venial sin excludes only actual reference of the human
act to God's glory, and not habitual reference: because it does not exclude charity, which
refers man to God habitually. Therefore it does not follow that he who sins venially, sins
mortally.

Reply Obj. 3: He that sins venially, cleaves to temporal good, not as enjoying it, because
he does not fix his end in it, but as using it, by referring it to God, not actually but habitually.

Reply Obj. 4: Mutable good is not considered to be a term in contraposition to the immutable
good, unless one's end is fixed therein: because what is referred to the end has not the character
of finality.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 88, Art. 2]

Whether Mortal and Venial Sin Differ Generically?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial and mortal sin do not differ generically, so that some
sins be generically mortal, and some generically venial. Because human acts are considered
to be generically good or evil according to their matter or object, as stated above (Q. 18,
A. 2). Now either mortal or venial sin may be committed in regard to any object or matter:
since man can love any mutable good, either less than God, which may be a venial sin, or more
than God, which is a mortal sin. Therefore venial and mortal sin do not differ generically.

Obj. 2: Further, as stated above (A. 1; Q. 72, A. 5; Q. 87, A. 3), a sin is called mortal when
it is irreparable, venial when it can be repaired. Now irreparability belongs to sin committed
out of malice, which, according to some, is irremissible: whereas reparability belongs to sins
committed through weakness or ignorance, which are remissible. Therefore mortal and venial
sin differ as sin committed through malice differs from sin committed through weakness or ignorance.
But, in this respect, sins differ not in genus but in cause, as stated above (Q. 77, A. 8,
ad 1). Therefore venial and mortal sin do not differ generically.

Obj. 3: Further, it was stated above (Q. 74, A. 3, ad 3; A. 10) that sudden movements both
of the sensuality and of the reason are venial sins. But sudden movements occur in every kind
of sin. Therefore no sins are generically venial.

On the contrary, Augustine, in a sermon on Purgatory (De Sanctis, serm. xli), enumerates certain
generic venial sins, and certain generic mortal sins.

I answer that, Venial sin is so called from venia (pardon). Consequently a sin may be called
venial, first of all, because it has been pardoned: thus Ambrose says that "penance makes every
sin venial": and this is called venial "from the result." Secondly, a sin is called venial
because it does not contain anything either partially or totally, to prevent its being pardoned:
partially, as when a sin contains something diminishing its guilt, e.g. a sin committed through
weakness or ignorance: and this is called venial "from the cause": totally, through not destroying
the order to the last end, wherefore it deserves temporal, but not everlasting punishment.
It is of this venial sin that we wish to speak now.

For as regards the first two, it is evident that they have no determinate genus: whereas venial
sin, taken in the third sense, can have a determinate genus, so that one sin may be venial
generically, and another generically mortal, according as the genus or species of an act is
determined by its object. For, when the will is directed to a thing that is in itself contrary
to charity, whereby man is directed to his last end, the sin is mortal by reason of its object.
Consequently it is a mortal sin generically, whether it be contrary to the love of God, e.g.
blasphemy, perjury, and the like, or against the love of one's neighbor, e.g. murder, adultery,
and such like: wherefore such sins are mortal by reason of their genus. Sometimes, however,
the sinner's will is directed to a thing containing a certain inordinateness, but which is
not contrary to the love of God and one's neighbor, e.g. an idle word, excessive laughter,
and so forth: and such sins are venial by reason of their genus.

Nevertheless, since moral acts derive their character of goodness and malice, not only from
their objects, but also from some disposition of the agent, as stated above (Q. 18, AA. 4,
6), it happens sometimes that a sin which is venial generically by reason of its object, becomes
mortal on the part of the agent, either because he fixes his last end therein, or because he
directs it to something that is a mortal sin in its own genus; for example, if a man direct
an idle word to the commission of adultery. In like manner it may happen, on the part of the
agent, that a sin generically mortal because venial, by reason of the act being imperfect,
i.e. not deliberated by reason, which is the proper principle of an evil act, as we have said
above in reference to sudden movements of unbelief.

Reply Obj. 1: The very fact that anyone chooses something that is contrary to divine charity,
proves that he prefers it to the love of God, and consequently, that he loves it more than
he loves God. Hence it belongs to the genus of some sins, which are of themselves contrary
to charity, that something is loved more than God; so that they are mortal by reason of their
genus.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument considers those sins which are venial from their cause.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers those sins which are venial by reason of the imperfection
of the act.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 88, Art. 3]

Whether Venial Sin Is a Disposition to Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sin is not a disposition to mortal sin. For one contrary
does not dispose to another. But venial and mortal sin are condivided as contrary to one another,
as stated above (A. 1). Therefore venial sin is not a disposition to mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, an act disposes to something of like species, wherefore it is stated in Ethic.
ii, 1, 2, that "from like acts like dispositions and habits are engendered." But mortal and
venial sin differ in genus or species, as stated above (A. 2). Therefore venial sin does not
dispose to mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, if a sin is called venial because it disposes to mortal sin, it follows that
whatever disposes to mortal sin is a venial sin. Now every good work disposes to mortal sin;
wherefore Augustine says in his Rule (Ep. ccxi) that "pride lies in wait for good works that
it may destroy them." Therefore even good works would be venial sins, which is absurd.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 19:1): "He that contemneth small things shall fall
by little and little." Now he that sins venially seems to contemn small things. Therefore by
little and little he is disposed to fall away together into mortal sin.

I answer that, A disposition is a kind of cause; wherefore as there is a twofold manner of
cause, so is there a twofold manner of disposition. For there is a cause which moves directly
to the production of the effect, as a hot thing heats: and there is a cause which moves indirectly,
by removing an obstacle, as he who displaces a pillar is said to displace the stone that rests
on it. Accordingly an act of sin disposes to something in two ways. First, directly, and thus
it disposes to an act of like species. In this way, a sin generically venial does not, primarily
and of its nature, dispose to a sin generically mortal, for they differ in species. Nevertheless,
in this same way, a venial sin can dispose, by way of consequence, to a sin which is mortal
on the part of the agent: because the disposition or habit may be so far strengthened by acts
of venial sin, that the lust of sinning increases, and the sinner fixes his end in that venial
sin: since the end for one who has a habit, as such, is to work according to that habit; and
the consequence will be that, by sinning often venially, he becomes disposed to a mortal sin.
Secondly, a human act disposes to something by removing an obstacle thereto. In this way a
sin generically venial can dispose to a sin generically mortal. Because he that commits a sin
generically venial, turns aside from some particular order; and through accustoming his will
not to be subject to the due order in lesser matters, is disposed not to subject his will even
to the order of the last end, by choosing something that is a mortal sin in its genus.

Reply Obj. 1: Venial and mortal sin are not condivided in contrariety to one another, as though
they were species of one genus, as stated above (A. 1, ad 1), but as an accident is condivided
with substance. Wherefore an accident can be a disposition to a substantial form, so can a
venial sin dispose to mortal.

Reply Obj. 2: Venial sin is not like mortal sin in species; but it is in genus, inasmuch as
they both imply a defect of due order, albeit in different ways, as stated (AA. 1, 2).

Reply Obj. 3: A good work is not, of itself, a disposition to mortal sin; but it can be the
matter or occasion of mortal sin accidentally; whereas a venial sin, of its very nature, disposes
to mortal sin, as stated.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 88, Art. 4]

Whether a Venial Sin Can Become Mortal?

Objection 1: It would seem that a venial sin can become a mortal sin. For Augustine in explaining
the words of John 3:36: "He that believeth not the Son, shall not see life," says (Tract. xii
in Joan.): "The slightest," i.e. venial, "sins kill if we make little of them." Now a sin is
called mortal through causing the spiritual death of the soul. Therefore a venial sin can become
mortal.

Obj. 2: Further, a movement in the sensuality before the consent of reason, is a venial sin,
but after consent, is a mortal sin, as stated above (Q. 74, A. 8, ad 2). Therefore a venial
sin can become mortal.

Obj. 3: Further, venial and mortal sin differ as curable and incurable disease, as stated above
(A. 1). But a curable disease may become incurable. Therefore a venial sin may become mortal.

Obj. 4: Further, a disposition may become a habit. Now venial sin is a disposition to mortal,
as stated (A. 3). Therefore a venial sin can become mortal.

I answer that, The fact of a venial sin becoming a mortal sin may be understood in three ways.
First, so that the same identical act be at first a venial, and then a mortal sin. This is
impossible: because a sin, like any moral act, consists chiefly in an act of the will: so that
an act is not one morally, if the will be changed, although the act be continuous physically.
If, however, the will be not changed, it is not possible for a venial sin to become mortal.

Secondly, this may be taken to mean that a sin generically venial, becomes mortal. This is
possible, in so far as one may fix one's end in that venial sin, or direct it to some mortal
sin as end, as stated above (A. 2).

Thirdly, this may be understood in the sense of many venial sins constituting one mortal sin.
If this be taken as meaning that many venial sins added together make one mortal sin, it is
false, because all the venial sins in the world cannot incur a debt of punishment equal to
that of one mortal sin. This is evident as regards the duration of the punishment, since mortal
sin incurs a debt of eternal punishment, while venial sin incurs a debt of temporal punishment,
as stated above (Q. 87, AA. 3, 5). It is also evident as regards the pain of loss, because
mortal sins deserve to be punished by the privation of seeing God, to which no other punishment
is comparable, as Chrysostom states (Hom. xxiv in Matth.). It is also evident as regards the
pain of sense, as to the remorse of conscience; although as to the pain of fire, the punishments
may perhaps not be improportionate to one another.

If, however, this be taken as meaning that many venial sins make one mortal sin dispositively,
it is true, as was shown above (A. 3) with regard to the two different manners of disposition,
whereby venial sin disposes to mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine is referring to the fact of many venial sins making one mortal sin
dispositively.

Reply Obj. 2: The same movement of the sensuality which preceded the consent of reason can
never become a mortal sin; but the movement of the reason in consenting is a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 3: Disease of the body is not an act, but an abiding disposition; wherefore, while
remaining the same disease, it may undergo change. On the other hand, venial sin is a transient
act, which cannot be taken up again: so that in this respect the comparison fails.

Reply Obj. 4: A disposition that becomes a habit, is like an imperfect thing in the same species;
thus imperfect science, by being perfected, becomes a habit. On the other hand, venial sin
is a disposition to something differing generically, even as an accident which disposes to
a substantial form, into which it is never changed.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 88, Art. 5]

Whether a Circumstance Can Make a Venial Sin to Be Mortal?

Objection 1: It would seem that a circumstance can make a venial sin mortal. For Augustine
says in a sermon on Purgatory (De Sanctis, serm. xli) that "if anger continue for a long time,
or if drunkenness be frequent, they become mortal sins." But anger and drunkenness are not
mortal but venial sins generically, else they would always be mortal sins. Therefore a circumstance
makes a venial sin to be mortal.

Obj. 2: Further, the Master says (Sentent. ii, D, 24) that delectation, if morose [*See Q.
74, A. 6], is a mortal sin, but that if it be not morose, it is a venial sin. Now moroseness
is a circumstance. Therefore a circumstance makes a venial sin to be mortal.

Obj. 3: Further, evil and good differ more than venial and mortal sin, both of which are generically
evil. But a circumstance makes a good act to be evil, as when a man gives an alms for vainglory.
Much more, therefore, can it make a venial sin to be mortal.

On the contrary, Since a circumstance is an accident, its quantity cannot exceed that of the
act itself, derived from the act's genus, because the subject always excels its accident. If,
therefore, an act be venial by reason of its genus, it cannot become mortal by reason of an
accident: since, in a way, mortal sin infinitely surpasses the quantity of venial sin, as is
evident from what has been said (Q. 72, A. 5, ad 1; Q. 87, A. 5, ad 1).

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 7, A. 1; Q. 18, A. 5, ad 4; AA. 10, 11), when we were treating
of circumstances, a circumstance, as such, is an accident of the moral act: and yet a circumstance
may happen to be taken as the specific difference of a moral act, and then it loses its nature
of circumstance, and constitutes the species of the moral act. This happens in sins when a
circumstance adds the deformity of another genus; thus when a man has knowledge of another
woman than his wife, the deformity of his act is opposed to chastity; but if this other be
another man's wife, there is an additional deformity opposed to justice which forbids one to
take what belongs to another; and accordingly this circumstance constitutes a new species of
sin known as adultery.

It is, however, impossible for a circumstance to make a venial sin become mortal, unless it
adds the deformity of another species. For it has been stated above (A. 1) that the deformity
of a venial sin consists in a disorder affecting things that are referred to the end, whereas
the deformity of a mortal sin consists in a disorder about the last end. Consequently it is
evident that a circumstance cannot make a venial sin to be mortal, so long as it remains a
circumstance, but only when it transfers the sin to another species, and becomes, as it were,
the specific difference of the moral act.

Reply Obj. 1: Length of time is not a circumstance that draws a sin to another species, nor
is frequency or custom, except perhaps by something accidental supervening. For an action does
not acquire a new species through being repeated or prolonged, unless by chance something supervene
in the repeated or prolonged act to change its species, e.g. disobedience, contempt, or the like.

We must therefore reply to the objection by saying that since anger is a movement of the soul
tending to the hurt of one's neighbor, if the angry movement tend to a hurt which is a mortal
sin generically, such as murder or robbery, that anger will be a mortal sin generically: and
if it be a venial sin, this will be due to the imperfection of the act, in so far as it is
a sudden movement of the sensuality: whereas, if it last a long time, it returns to its generic
nature, through the consent of reason. If, on the other hand, the hurt to which the angry movement
tends, is a sin generically venial, for instance, if a man be angry with someone, so as to
wish to say some trifling word in jest that would hurt him a little, the anger will not be
mortal sin, however long it last, unless perhaps accidentally; for instance, if it were to
give rise to great scandal or something of the kind.

With regard to drunkenness we reply that it is a mortal sin by reason of its genus; for, that
a man, without necessity, and through the mere lust of wine, make himself unable to use his
reason, whereby he is directed to God and avoids committing many sins, is expressly contrary
to virtue. That it be a venial sin, is due some sort of ignorance or weakness, as when a man
is ignorant of the strength of the wine, or of his own unfitness, so that he has no thought
of getting drunk, for in that case the drunkenness is not imputed to him as a sin, but only
the excessive drink. If, however, he gets drunk frequently, this ignorance no longer avails
as an excuse, for his will seems to choose to give way to drunkenness rather than to refrain
from excess of wine: wherefore the sin returns to its specific nature.

Reply Obj. 2: Morose delectation is not a mortal sin except in those matters which are mortal
sins generically. In such matters, if the delectation be not morose, there is a venial sin
through imperfection of the act, as we have said with regard to anger (ad 1): because anger
is said to be lasting, and delectation to be morose, on account of the approval of the deliberating
reason.

Reply Obj. 3: A circumstance does not make a good act to be evil, unless it constitute the
species of a sin, as we have stated above (Q. 18, A. 5, ad 4).

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 88, Art. 6]

Whether a Mortal Sin Can Become Venial?

Objection 1: It would seem that a mortal sin can become venial. Because venial sin is equally
distant from mortal, as mortal sin is from venial. But a venial sin can become mortal, as stated
above (A. 5). Therefore also a mortal sin can become venial.

Obj. 2: Further, venial and mortal sin are said to differ in this, that he who sins mortally
loves a creature more than God, while he who sins venially loves the creature less than God.
Now it may happen that a person in committing a sin generically mortal, loves a creature less
than God; for instance, if anyone being ignorant that simple fornication is a mortal sin, and
contrary to the love of God, commits the sin of fornication, yet so as to be ready, for the
love of God, to refrain from that sin if he knew that by committing it he was acting counter
to the love of God. Therefore his will be a venial sin; and accordingly a mortal sin can become
venial.

Obj. 3: Further, as stated above (A. 5, Obj. 3), good is more distant from evil, than venial
from mortal sin. But an act which is evil in itself, can become good; thus to kill a man may
be an act of justice, as when a judge condemns a thief to death. Much more therefore can a
mortal sin become venial.

On the contrary, An eternal thing can never become temporal. But mortal sin deserves eternal
punishment, whereas venial sin deserves temporal punishment. Therefore a mortal sin can never
become venial.

I answer that, Venial and mortal differ as perfect and imperfect in the genus of sin, as stated
above (A. 1, ad 1). Now the imperfect can become perfect, by some sort of addition: and, consequently,
a venial sin can become mortal, by the addition of some deformity pertaining to the genus of
mortal sin, as when a man utters an idle word for the purpose of fornication. On the other
hand, the perfect cannot become imperfect, by addition; and so a mortal sin cannot become venial,
by the addition of a deformity pertaining to the genus of venial sin, for the sin is not diminished
if a man commit fornication in order to utter an idle word; rather is it aggravated by the
additional deformity.

Nevertheless a sin which is generically mortal, can become venial by reason of the imperfection
of the act, because then it does not completely fulfil the conditions of a moral act, since
it is not a deliberate, but a sudden act, as is evident from what we have said above (A. 2).
This happens by a kind of subtraction, namely, of deliberate reason. And since a moral act
takes its species from deliberate reason, the result is that by such a subtraction the species
of the act is destroyed.

Reply Obj. 1: Venial differs from mortal as imperfect from perfect, even as a boy differs from
a man. But the boy becomes a man and not vice versa. Hence the argument does not prove.

Reply Obj. 2: If the ignorance be such as to excuse sin altogether, as the ignorance of a madman
or an imbecile, then he that commits fornication in a state of such ignorance, commits no sin
either mortal or venial. But if the ignorance be not invincible, then the ignorance itself
is a sin, and contains within itself the lack of the love of God, in so far as a man neglects
to learn those things whereby he can safeguard himself in the love of God.

Reply Obj. 3: As Augustine says (Contra Mendacium vii), "those things which are evil in themselves,
cannot be well done for any good end." Now murder is the slaying of the innocent, and this
can nowise be well done. But, as Augustine states (De Lib. Arb. i, 4, 5), the judge who sentences
a thief to death, or the soldier who slays the enemy of the common weal, are not murderers.

(2) Of the different kinds of venial sin, as denoted by "wood," "hay," "stubble" (1 Cor. 3:12);

(3) Whether man could sin venially in the state of innocence?

(4) Whether a good or a wicked angel can sin venially?

(5) Whether the movements of unbelievers are venial sins?

(6) Whether venial sin can be in a man with original sin alone?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 89, Art. 1]

Whether Venial Sin Causes a Stain on the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sin causes a stain in the soul. For Augustine says (De
Poenit.) [*Hom. 50, inter. L., 2], that if venial sins be multiplied, they destroy the beauty
of our souls so as to deprive us of the embraces of our heavenly spouse. But the stain of sin
is nothing else but the loss of the soul's beauty. Therefore venial sins cause a stain in the soul.

Obj. 2: Further, mortal sin causes a stain in the soul, on account of the inordinateness of
the act and of the sinner's affections. But, in venial sin, there is an inordinateness of the
act and of the affections. Therefore venial sin causes a stain in the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, the stain on the soul is caused by contact with a temporal thing, through
love thereof as stated above (Q. 86, A. 1). But, in venial sin, the soul is in contact with
a temporal thing through inordinate love. therefore, venial sin brings a stain on the soul.
Therefore it seems proper to mortal sin to cause a stain on the soul.

I answer that as stated above (Q. 86, A. 1), a stain denotes a loss of comeliness due to contact
with something, as may be seen in corporeal matters, from which the term has been transferred
to the soul, by way of similitude. Now, just as in the body there is a twofold comeliness,
one resulting from the inward disposition of the members and colors, the other resulting from
outward refulgence supervening, so too, in the soul, there is a twofold comeliness, one habitual
and, so to speak, intrinsic, the other actual like an outward flash of light. Now venial sin
is a hindrance to actual comeliness, but not to habitual comeliness, because it neither destroys
nor diminishes the habit of charity and of the other virtues, as we shall show further on (II-II,
Q. 24, A. 10; Q. 133, A. 1, ad 2), but only hinders their acts. On the other hand a stain denotes
something permanent in the thing stained, wherefore it seems in the nature of a loss of habitual
rather than of actual comeliness. Therefore, properly speaking, venial sin does not cause a
stain in the soul. If, however, we find it stated anywhere that it does induce a stain, this
is in a restricted sense, in so far as it hinders the comeliness that results from acts of virtue.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine is speaking of the case in which many venial sins lead to mortal sin
dispositively: because otherwise they would not sever the soul from its heavenly spouse.

Reply Obj. 2: In mortal sin the inordinateness of the act destroys the habit of virtue, but
not in venial sin.

Reply Obj. 3: In mortal sin the soul comes into contact with a temporal thing as its end, so
that the shedding of the light of grace, which accrues to those who, by charity, cleave to
God as their last end, is entirely cut off. On the contrary, in venial sin, man does not cleave
to a creature as his last end: hence there is no comparison.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 89, Art. 2]

Whether Venial Sins Are Suitably Designated As "Wood, Hay, and Stubble"?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sins are unsuitably designated as "wood, hay, and stubble."
Because wood, hay, and stubble are said (1 Cor. 3:12) to be built on a spiritual foundation.
Now venial sins are something outside a spiritual foundation, even as false opinions are outside
the pale of science. Therefore, venial sins are not suitably designated as wood, hay, and stubble.

Obj. 2: Further, he who builds wood, hay, and stubble, "shall be saved yet so as by fire" (1
Cor. 3:15). But sometimes the man who commits a venial sin, will not be saved, even by fire,
e.g. when a man dies in mortal sin to which venial sins are attached. Therefore, venial sins
are unsuitably designated by wood, hay, and stubble.

Obj. 3: Further, according to the Apostle (1 Cor. 3:12) those who build "gold, silver, precious
stones," i.e. love of God and our neighbor, and good works, are others from those who build
wood, hay, and stubble. But those even who love God and their neighbor, and do good works,
commit venial sins: for it is written (1 John 1:8): "If we say that we have no sin, we deceive
ourselves." Therefore venial sins are not suitably designated by these three.

Obj. 4: Further, there are many more than three differences and degrees of venial sins. Therefore
they are unsuitably comprised under these three.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (1 Cor. 3:15) that the man who builds up wood, hay and stubble,
"shall be saved yet so as by fire," so that he will suffer punishment, but not everlasting.
Now the debt of temporal punishment belongs properly to venial sin, as stated above (Q. 87,
A. 5). Therefore these three signify venial sins.

I answer that, Some have understood the "foundation" to be dead faith, upon which some build
good works, signified by gold, silver, and precious stones, while others build mortal sins,
which according to them are designated by wood, hay and stubble. But Augustine disapproves
of this explanation (De Fide et Oper. xv), because, as the Apostle says (Gal. 5:21), he who
does the works of the flesh, "shall not obtain the kingdom of God," which signifies to be saved;
whereas the Apostle says that he who builds wood, hay, and stubble "shall be saved yet so as
by fire." Consequently wood, hay, stubble cannot be understood to denote mortal sins.

Others say that wood, hay, stubble designate good works, which are indeed built upon the spiritual
edifice, but are mixed with venial sins: as, when a man is charged with the care of a family,
which is a good thing, excessive love of his wife or of his children or of his possessions
insinuates itself into his life, under God however, so that, to wit, for the sake of these
things he would be unwilling to do anything in opposition to God. But neither does this seem
to be reasonable. For it is evident that all good works are referred to the love of God, and
one's neighbor, wherefore they are designated by "gold," "silver," and "precious stones," and
consequently not by "wood," "hay," and "stubble."

We must therefore say that the very venial sins that insinuate themselves into those who have
a care for earthly things, are designated by wood, hay, and stubble. For just as these are
stored in a house, without belonging to the substance of the house, and can be burnt, while
the house is saved, so also venial sins are multiplied in a man, while the spiritual edifice
remains, and for them, man suffers fire, either of temporal trials in this life, or of purgatory
after this life, and yet he is saved for ever.

Reply Obj. 1: Venial sins are not said to be built upon the spiritual foundation, as though
they were laid directly upon it, but because they are laid beside it; in the same sense as
it is written (Ps. 136:1): "Upon the waters of Babylon," i.e. "beside the waters": because
venial sins do not destroy the edifice. And this foundation is not dead faith, as some have
esteemed, but faith quickened by charity, according to Eph. 3:17: "Rooted and founded in charity."
Accordingly, he that dies in mortal sin with venial sins, has indeed wood, hay, and stubble,
but not built upon the spiritual edifice; and consequently he will not be saved so as by fire.

Reply Obj. 3: Although those who are withdrawn from the care of temporal things, sin venially
sometimes, yet they commit but slight venial sins, and in most cases they are cleansed by the
fervor of charity: wherefore they do not build up venial sins, because these do not remain
long in them. But the venial sins of those who are busy about earthly things remain longer,
because they are unable to have such frequent recourse to the fervor of charity in order to
remove them.

Reply Obj. 4: As the Philosopher says (De Coelo i, text. 2), "all things are comprised under
three, the beginning, the middle, the end." Accordingly all degrees of venial sins are reduced
to three, viz. to "wood," which remains longer in the fire; "stubble," which is burnt up at
once; and "hay," which is between these two: because venial sins are removed by fire, quickly
or slowly, according as man is more or less attached to them.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 89, Art. 3]

Whether Man Could Commit a Venial Sin in the State of Innocence?

Objection 1: It would seem that man could commit a venial sin in the state of innocence. Because
on 1 Tim. 2:14, "Adam was not seduced," a gloss says: "Having had no experience of God's severity,
it was possible for him to be so mistaken as to think that what he had done was a venial sin."
But he would not have thought this unless he could have committed a venial sin. Therefore he
could commit a venial sin without sinning mortally.

Obj. 2: Further Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xi, 5): "We must not suppose that the tempter
would have overcome man, unless first of all there had arisen in man's soul a movement of vainglory
which should have been checked." Now the vainglory which preceded man's defeat, which was accomplished
through his falling into mortal sin, could be nothing more than a venial sin. In like manner,
Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xi, 5) that "man was allured by a certain desire of making the
experiment, when he saw that the woman did not die when she had taken the forbidden fruit."
Again there seems to have been a certain movement of unbelief in Eve, since she doubted what
the Lord had said, as appears from her saying (Gen. 3:3): "Lest perhaps we die." Now these
apparently were venial sins. Therefore man could commit a venial sin before he committed a
mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, mortal sin is more opposed to the integrity of the original state, than venial
sin is. Now man could sin mortally notwithstanding the integrity of the original state. Therefore
he could also sin venially.

On the contrary, Every sin deserves some punishment. But nothing penal was possible in the
state of innocence, as Augustine declares (De Civ. Dei xiv, 10). Therefore he could not commit
a sin that would not deprive him of that state of integrity. But venial sin does not change
man's state. Therefore he could not sin venially.

I answer that, It is generally admitted that man could not commit a venial sin in the state
of innocence. This, however, is not to be understood as though on account of the perfection
of his state, the sin which is venial for us would have been mortal for him, if he had committed
it. Because the dignity of a person is circumstance that aggravates a sin, but it does not
transfer it to another species, unless there be an additional deformity by reason of disobedience,
or vow or the like, which does not apply to the question in point. Consequently what is venial
in itself could not be changed into mortal by reason of the excellence of the original state.
We must therefore understand this to mean that he could not sin venially, because it was impossible
for him to commit a sin which was venial in itself, before losing the integrity of the original
state by sinning mortally.

The reason for this is because venial sin occurs in us, either through the imperfection of
the act, as in the case of sudden movements, in a genus of mortal sin or through some inordinateness
in respect of things referred to the end, the due order of the end being safeguarded. Now each
of these happens on account of some defect of order, by reason of the lower powers not being
checked by the higher. Because the sudden rising of a movement of the sensuality in us is due
to the sensuality not being perfectly subject to reason: and the sudden rising of a movement
of reason itself is due, in us, to the fact that the execution of the act of reason is not
subject to the act of deliberation which proceeds from a higher good, as stated above (Q. 74,
A. 10); and that the human mind be out of order as regards things directed to the end, the
due order of the end being safeguarded, is due to the fact that the things referred to the
end are not infallibly directed under the end, which holds the highest place, being the beginning,
as it were, in matters concerning the appetite, as stated above (Q. 10, AA. 1, 2, ad 3; Q.
72, A. 5). Now, in the state of innocence, as stated in the First Part (Q. 95, A. 1), there
was an unerring stability of order, so that the lower powers were always subjected to the higher,
so long as man remained subject to God, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xiv, 13). Hence there
can be no inordinateness in man, unless first of all the highest part of man were not subject
to God, which constitutes a mortal sin. From this it is evident that, in the state of innocence,
man could not commit a venial sin, before committing a mortal sin.

Reply Obj. 1: In the passage quoted, venial is not taken in the same sense as we take it now;
but by venial sin we mean that which is easily forgiven.

Reply Obj. 2: This vainglory which preceded man's downfall, was his first mortal sin, for it
is stated to have preceded his downfall into the outward act of sin. This vainglory was followed,
in the man, by the desire to make and experiment, and in the woman, by doubt, for she gave
way to vainglory, merely through hearing the serpent mention the precept, as though she refused
to be held in check by the precept. And because the integrity of the primitive state is incompatible
with any inordinateness whatever, the result is that the first man could not sin venially,
before committing a mortal sin.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 89, Art. 4]

Whether a Good or a Wicked Angel Can Sin Venially?

Objection 1: It seems that a good or wicked angel can sin venially. Because man agrees with
the angels in the higher part of his soul which is called the mind, according to Gregory, who
says (Hom. xxix in Evang.) that "man understands in common with the angels." But man can commit
a venial sin in the higher part of his soul. Therefore an angel can commit a venial sin also.

Obj. 2: Further, He that can do more can do less. But an angel could love a created good more
than God, and he did, by sinning mortally. Therefore he could also love a creature less than
God inordinately, by sinning venially.

Obj. 3: Further, wicked angels seem to do things which are venial sins generically, by provoking
men to laughter, and other like frivolities. Now the circumstance of the person does not make
a mortal sin to be venial as stated above (A. 3), unless there is a special prohibition, which
is not the case in point. Therefore an angel can sin venially.

On the contrary, The perfection of an angel is greater than that of man in the primitive state.
But man could not sin venially in the primitive state, and much less, therefore, can an angel.

I answer that, An angel's intellect, as stated above in the First Part (Q. 58, A. 3; Q. 79,
A. 8), is not discursive, i.e. it does not proceed from principles to conclusions, so as to
understand both separately, as we do. Consequently, whenever the angelic intellect considers
a conclusion, it must, of necessity, consider it in its principles. Now in matters of appetite,
as we have often stated (Q. 8, A. 2; Q. 10, A. 1; Q. 72, A. 5), ends are like principles, while
the means are like conclusions. Wherefore, an angel's mind is not directed to the means, except
as they stand under the order to the end. Consequently, from their very nature, they can have
no inordinateness in respect of the means, unless at the same time they have an inordinateness
in respect of the end, and this is a mortal sin. Now good angels are not moved to the means,
except in subordination to the due end which is God: wherefore all their acts are acts of charity,
so that no venial sin can be in them. On the other hand, wicked angels are moved to nothing
except in subordination to the end which is their sin of pride. Therefore they sin mortally
in everything that they do of their own will. This does not apply to the appetite for the natural
good, which appetite we have stated to be in them (I, Q. 63, A. 4; Q. 64, A. 2, ad 5).

Reply Obj. 1: Man does indeed agree with the angels in the mind or intellect, but he differs
in his mode of understanding, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: An angel could not love a creature less than God, without, at the same time,
either referring it to God, as the last end, or to some inordinate end, for the reason given above.

Reply Obj. 3: The demons incite man to all such things which seem venial, that he may become
used to them, so as to lead him on to mortal sin. Consequently in all such things they sin
mortally, on account of the end they have in view.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 89, Art. 5]

Whether the First Movements of the Sensuality in Unbelievers Are Mortal Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the first movements of the sensuality in unbelievers are mortal
sins. For the Apostle says (Rom. 8:1) that "there is . . . no condemnation to them that are
in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh": and he is speaking there of the concupiscence
of the sensuality, as appears from the context (Rom. 7). Therefore the reason why concupiscence
is not a matter of condemnation to those who walk not according to the flesh, i.e. by consenting
to concupiscence, is because they are in Christ Jesus. But unbelievers are not in Christ Jesus.
Therefore in unbelievers this is a matter of condemnation. Therefore the first movements of
unbelievers are mortal sins.

Obj. 2: Further Anselm says (De Gratia et Lib. Arb. vii): "Those who are not in Christ, when
they feel the sting of the flesh, follow the road of damnation, even if they walk not according
to the flesh." But damnation is not due save to mortal sin. Therefore, since man feels the
sting of the flesh in the first movements of the concupiscence, it seems that the first movements
of concupiscence in unbelievers are mortal sins.

Obj. 3: Further, Anselm says (De Gratia et Lib. Arb. vii): "Man was so made that he was not
liable to feel concupiscence." Now this liability seems to be remitted to man by the grace
of Baptism, which the unbeliever has not. Therefore every act of concupiscence in an unbeliever,
even without his consent, is a mortal sin, because he acts against his duty.

On the contrary, It is stated in Acts 10:34 that "God is not a respecter of persons." Therefore
he does not impute to one unto condemnation, what He does not impute to another. But he does
not impute first movements to believers, unto condemnation. Neither therefore does He impute
them to unbelievers.

I answer that, It is unreasonable to say that the first movements of unbelievers are mortal
sins, when they do not consent to them. This is evident for two reasons. First, because the
sensuality itself could not be the subject of mortal sin, as stated above (Q. 79, A. 4). Now
the sensuality has the same nature in unbelievers as in believers. Therefore it is not possible
for the mere movements of the sensuality in unbelievers, to be mortal sins.

Secondly, from the state of the sinner. Because excellence of the person never diminishes sin,
but, on the contrary, increases it, as stated above (Q. 73, A. 10). Therefore a sin is not
less grievous in a believer than in an unbeliever, but much more so. For the sins of an unbeliever
are more deserving of forgiveness, on account of their ignorance, according to 1 Tim. 1:13:
"I obtained the mercy of God, because I did it ignorantly in my unbelief": whereas the sins
of believers are more grievous on account of the sacraments of grace, according to Heb. 10:29:
"How much more, do you think, he deserveth worse punishments . . . who hath esteemed the blood
of the testament unclean, by which he was sanctified?"

Reply Obj. 1: The Apostle is speaking of the condemnation due to original sin, which condemnation
is remitted by the grace of Jesus Christ, although the fomes of concupiscence remain. Wherefore
the fact that believers are subject to concupiscence is not in them a sign of the condemnation
due to original sin, as it is in unbelievers.

In this way also is to be understood the saying of Anselm, wherefore the Reply to the Second
Objection is evident.

Reply Obj. 3: This freedom from liability to concupiscence was a result of original justice.
Wherefore that which is opposed to such liability pertains, not to actual but to original sin.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 89, Art. 6]

Whether Venial Sin Can Be in Anyone with Original Sin Alone?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sin can be in a man with original sin alone. For disposition
precedes habit. Now venial sin is a disposition to mortal sin, as stated above (Q. 88, A. 3).
Therefore in an unbeliever, in whom original sin is not remitted, venial sin exists before
mortal sin: and so sometimes unbelievers have venial together with original sin, and without
mortal sins.

Obj. 2: Further, venial sin has less in common, and less connection with mortal sin, than one
mortal sin has with another. But an unbeliever in the state of original sin, can commit one
mortal sin without committing another. Therefore he can also commit a venial sin without committing
a mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, it is possible to fix the time at which a child is first able to commit an
actual sin: and when the child comes to that time, it can stay a short time at least, without
committing a mortal sin, because this happens in the worst criminals. Now it is possible for
the child to sin venially during that space of time, however short it may be. Therefore venial
sin can be in anyone with original sin alone and without mortal sin.

On the contrary, Man is punished for original sin in the children's limbo, where there is no
pain of sense as we shall state further on (II-II, Q. 69, A. 6): whereas men are punished in
hell for no other than mortal sin. Therefore there will be no place where a man can be punished
for venial sin with no other than original sin.

I answer that, It is impossible for venial sin to be in anyone with original sin alone, and
without mortal sin. The reason for this is because before a man comes to the age of discretion,
the lack of years hinders the use of reason and excuses him from mortal sin, wherefore, much
more does it excuse him from venial sin, if he does anything which is such generically. But
when he begins to have the use of reason, he is not entirely excused from the guilt of venial
or mortal sin. Now the first thing that occurs to a man to think about then, is to deliberate
about himself. And if he then direct himself to the due end, he will, by means of grace, receive
the remission of original sin: whereas if he does not then direct himself to the due end, as
far as he is capable of discretion at that particular age, he will sin mortally, through not
doing that which is in his power to do. Accordingly thenceforward there cannot be venial sin
in him without mortal, until afterwards all sin shall have been remitted to him through grace.

Reply Obj. 1: Venial sin always precedes mortal sin not as a necessary, but as a contingent
disposition, just as work sometimes disposes to fever, but not as heat disposes to the form
of fire.

Reply Obj. 2: Venial sin is prevented from being with original sin alone, not on account of
its want of connection or likeness, but on account of the lack of use of reason, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: The child that is beginning to have the use of reason can refrain from other
mortal sins for a time, but it is not free from the aforesaid sin of omission, unless it turns
to God as soon as possible. For the first thing that occurs to a man who has discretion, is
to think of himself, and to direct other things to himself as to their end, since the end is
the first thing in the intention. Therefore this is the time when man is bound by God's affirmative
precept, which the Lord expressed by saying (Zech. 1:3): "Turn ye to Me . . . and I will turn
to you."

TREATISE ON LAW (QQ. 90-108)

QUESTION 90

OF THE ESSENCE OF LAW (In Four Articles)

We have now to consider the extrinsic principles of acts. Now the extrinsic principle inclining
to evil is the devil, of whose temptations we have spoken in the First Part (Q. 114). But the
extrinsic principle moving to good is God, Who both instructs us by means of His Law, and assists
us by His Grace: wherefore in the first place we must speak of law; in the second place, of grace.

Concerning law, we must consider: (1) Law itself in general; (2) its parts. Concerning law
in general three points offer themselves for our consideration: (1) Its essence; (2) The different
kinds of law; (3) The effects of law.

Under the first head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether law is something pertaining to reason?

(2) Concerning the end of law;

(3) Its cause;

(4) The promulgation of law.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 90, Art. 1]

Whether Law Is Something Pertaining to Reason?

Objection 1: It would seem that law is not something pertaining to reason. For the Apostle
says (Rom. 7:23): "I see another law in my members," etc. But nothing pertaining to reason
is in the members; since the reason does not make use of a bodily organ. Therefore law is not
something pertaining to reason.

Obj. 2: Further, in the reason there is nothing else but power, habit, and act. But law is
not the power itself of reason. In like manner, neither is it a habit of reason: because the
habits of reason are the intellectual virtues of which we have spoken above (Q. 57). Nor again
is it an act of reason: because then law would cease, when the act of reason ceases, for instance,
while we are asleep. Therefore law is nothing pertaining to reason.

Obj. 3: Further, the law moves those who are subject to it to act aright. But it belongs properly
to the will to move to act, as is evident from what has been said above (Q. 9, A. 1). Therefore
law pertains, not to the reason, but to the will; according to the words of the Jurist (Lib.
i, ff., De Const. Prin. leg. i): "Whatsoever pleaseth the sovereign, has force of law."

On the contrary, It belongs to the law to command and to forbid. But it belongs to reason to
command, as stated above (Q. 17, A. 1). Therefore law is something pertaining to reason.

I answer that, Law is a rule and measure of acts, whereby man is induced to act or is restrained
from acting: for lex (law) is derived from ligare (to bind), because it binds one to act. Now
the rule and measure of human acts is the reason, which is the first principle of human acts,
as is evident from what has been stated above (Q. 1, A. 1, ad 3); since it belongs to the reason
to direct to the end, which is the first principle in all matters of action, according to the
Philosopher (Phys. ii). Now that which is the principle in any genus, is the rule and measure
of that genus: for instance, unity in the genus of numbers, and the first movement in the genus
of movements. Consequently it follows that law is something pertaining to reason.

Reply Obj. 1: Since law is a kind of rule and measure, it may be in something in two ways.
First, as in that which measures and rules: and since this is proper to reason, it follows
that, in this way, law is in the reason alone. Secondly, as in that which is measured and ruled.
In this way, law is in all those things that are inclined to something by reason of some law:
so that any inclination arising from a law, may be called a law, not essentially but by participation
as it were. And thus the inclination of the members to concupiscence is called "the law of
the members."

Reply Obj. 2: Just as, in external action, we may consider the work and the work done, for
instance the work of building and the house built; so in the acts of reason, we may consider
the act itself of reason, i.e. to understand and to reason, and something produced by this
act. With regard to the speculative reason, this is first of all the definition; secondly,
the proposition; thirdly, the syllogism or argument. And since also the practical reason makes
use of a syllogism in respect of the work to be done, as stated above (Q. 13, A. 3; Q. 76,
A. 1) and since as the Philosopher teaches (Ethic. vii, 3); hence we find in the practical
reason something that holds the same position in regard to operations, as, in the speculative
intellect, the proposition holds in regard to conclusions. Such like universal propositions
of the practical intellect that are directed to actions have the nature of law. And these propositions
are sometimes under our actual consideration, while sometimes they are retained in the reason
by means of a habit.

Reply Obj. 3: Reason has its power of moving from the will, as stated above (Q. 17, A. 1):
for it is due to the fact that one wills the end, that the reason issues its commands as regards
things ordained to the end. But in order that the volition of what is commanded may have the
nature of law, it needs to be in accord with some rule of reason. And in this sense is to be
understood the saying that the will of the sovereign has the force of law; otherwise the sovereign's
will would savor of lawlessness rather than of law.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 90, Art. 2]

Whether the Law Is Always Something Directed to the Common Good?

Objection 1: It would seem that the law is not always directed to the common good as to its
end. For it belongs to law to command and to forbid. But commands are directed to certain individual
goods. Therefore the end of the law is not always the common good.

Obj. 2: Further, the law directs man in his actions. But human actions are concerned with particular
matters. Therefore the law is directed to some particular good.

Obj. 3: Further, Isidore says (Etym. v, 3): "If the law is based on reason, whatever is based
on reason will be a law." But reason is the foundation not only of what is ordained to the
common good, but also of that which is directed to private good. Therefore the law is not only
directed to the good of all, but also to the private good of an individual.

On the contrary, Isidore says (Etym. v, 21) that "laws are enacted for no private profit, but
for the common benefit of the citizens."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the law belongs to that which is a principle of human
acts, because it is their rule and measure. Now as reason is a principle of human acts, so
in reason itself there is something which is the principle in respect of all the rest: wherefore
to this principle chiefly and mainly law must needs be referred. Now the first principle in
practical matters, which are the object of the practical reason, is the last end: and the last
end of human life is bliss or happiness, as stated above (Q. 2, A. 7; Q. 3, A. 1). Consequently
the law must needs regard principally the relationship to happiness. Moreover, since every
part is ordained to the whole, as imperfect to perfect; and since one man is a part of the
perfect community, the law must needs regard properly the relationship to universal happiness.
Wherefore the Philosopher, in the above definition of legal matters mentions both happiness
and the body politic: for he says (Ethic. v, 1) that we call those legal matters "just, which
are adapted to produce and preserve happiness and its parts for the body politic": since the
state is a perfect community, as he says in Polit. i, 1.

Now in every genus, that which belongs to it chiefly is the principle of the others, and the
others belong to that genus in subordination to that thing: thus fire, which is chief among
hot things, is the cause of heat in mixed bodies, and these are said to be hot in so far as
they have a share of fire. Consequently, since the law is chiefly ordained to the common good,
any other precept in regard to some individual work, must needs be devoid of the nature of
a law, save in so far as it regards the common good. Therefore every law is ordained to the
common good.

Reply Obj. 1: A command denotes an application of a law to matters regulated by the law. Now
the order to the common good, at which the law aims, is applicable to particular ends. And
in this way commands are given even concerning particular matters.

Reply Obj. 2: Actions are indeed concerned with particular matters: but those particular matters
are referable to the common good, not as to a common genus or species, but as to a common final
cause, according as the common good is said to be the common end.

Reply Obj. 3: Just as nothing stands firm with regard to the speculative reason except that
which is traced back to the first indemonstrable principles, so nothing stands firm with regard
to the practical reason, unless it be directed to the last end which is the common good: and
whatever stands to reason in this sense, has the nature of a law.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 90, Art. 3]

Whether the Reason of Any Man Is Competent to Make Laws?

Objection 1: It would seem that the reason of any man is competent to make laws. For the Apostle
says (Rom. 2:14) that "when the Gentiles, who have not the law, do by nature those things that
are of the law . . . they are a law to themselves." Now he says this of all in general. Therefore
anyone can make a law for himself.

Obj. 2: Further, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 1), "the intention of the lawgiver is
to lead men to virtue." But every man can lead another to virtue. Therefore the reason of any
man is competent to make laws.

Obj. 3: Further, just as the sovereign of a state governs the state, so every father of a family
governs his household. But the sovereign of a state can make laws for the state. Therefore
every father of a family can make laws for his household.

On the contrary, Isidore says (Etym. v, 10): "A law is an ordinance of the people, whereby
something is sanctioned by the Elders together with the Commonalty."

I answer that, A law, properly speaking, regards first and foremost the order to the common
good. Now to order anything to the common good, belongs either to the whole people, or to someone
who is the viceregent of the whole people. And therefore the making of a law belongs either
to the whole people or to a public personage who has care of the whole people: since in all
other matters the directing of anything to the end concerns him to whom the end belongs.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (A. 1, ad 1), a law is in a person not only as in one that rules,
but also by participation as in one that is ruled. In the latter way each one is a law to himself,
in so far as he shares the direction that he receives from one who rules him. Hence the same
text goes on: "Who show the work of the law written in their hearts."

Reply Obj. 2: A private person cannot lead another to virtue efficaciously: for he can only
advise, and if his advice be not taken, it has no coercive power, such as the law should have,
in order to prove an efficacious inducement to virtue, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 9).
But this coercive power is vested in the whole people or in some public personage, to whom
it belongs to inflict penalties, as we shall state further on (Q. 92, A. 2, ad 3; II-II, Q.
64, A. 3). Wherefore the framing of laws belongs to him alone.

Reply Obj. 3: As one man is a part of the household, so a household is a part of the state:
and the state is a perfect community, according to Polit. i, 1. And therefore, as the good
of one man is not the last end, but is ordained to the common good; so too the good of one
household is ordained to the good of a single state, which is a perfect community. Consequently
he that governs a family, can indeed make certain commands or ordinances, but not such as to
have properly the force of law.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 90, Art. 4]

Whether Promulgation Is Essential to a Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that promulgation is not essential to a law. For the natural law
above all has the character of law. But the natural law needs no promulgation. Therefore it
is not essential to a law that it be promulgated.

Obj. 2: Further, it belongs properly to a law to bind one to do or not to do something. But
the obligation of fulfilling a law touches not only those in whose presence it is promulgated,
but also others. Therefore promulgation is not essential to a law.

Obj. 3: Further, the binding force of a law extends even to the future, since "laws are binding
in matters of the future," as the jurists say (Cod. 1, tit. De lege et constit. leg. vii).
But promulgation concerns those who are present. Therefore it is not essential to a law.

On the contrary, It is laid down in the Decretals, dist. 4, that "laws are established when
they are promulgated."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), a law is imposed on others by way of a rule and measure.
Now a rule or measure is imposed by being applied to those who are to be ruled and measured
by it. Wherefore, in order that a law obtain the binding force which is proper to a law, it
must needs be applied to the men who have to be ruled by it. Such application is made by its
being notified to them by promulgation. Wherefore promulgation is necessary for the law to
obtain its force.

Thus from the four preceding articles, the definition of law may be gathered; and it is nothing
else than an ordinance of reason for the common good, made by him who has care of the community,
and promulgated.

Reply Obj. 1: The natural law is promulgated by the very fact that God instilled it into man's
mind so as to be known by him naturally.

Reply Obj. 2: Those who are not present when a law is promulgated, are bound to observe the
law, in so far as it is notified or can be notified to them by others, after it has been promulgated.

Reply Obj. 3: The promulgation that takes place now, extends to future time by reason of the
durability of written characters, by which means it is continually promulgated. Hence Isidore
says (Etym. v, 3; ii, 10) that "lex (law) is derived from legere (to read) because it is written."

QUESTION 91

OF THE VARIOUS KINDS OF LAW (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the various kinds of law: under which head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there is an eternal law?

(2) Whether there is a natural law?

(3) Whether there is a human law?

(4) Whether there is a Divine law?

(5) Whether there is one Divine law, or several?

(6) Whether there is a law of sin?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 91, Art. 1]

Whether There Is an Eternal Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is no eternal law. Because every law is imposed on someone.
But there was not someone from eternity on whom a law could be imposed: since God alone was
from eternity. Therefore no law is eternal.

Obj. 2: Further, promulgation is essential to law. But promulgation could not be from eternity:
because there was no one to whom it could be promulgated from eternity. Therefore no law can
be eternal.

Obj. 3: Further, a law implies order to an end. But nothing ordained to an end is eternal:
for the last end alone is eternal. Therefore no law is eternal.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6): "That Law which is the Supreme Reason
cannot be understood to be otherwise than unchangeable and eternal."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, A. 1, ad 2; AA. 3, 4), a law is nothing else but a dictate
of practical reason emanating from the ruler who governs a perfect community. Now it is evident,
granted that the world is ruled by Divine Providence, as was stated in the First Part (Q. 22,
AA. 1, 2), that the whole community of the universe is governed by Divine Reason. Wherefore
the very Idea of the government of things in God the Ruler of the universe, has the nature
of a law. And since the Divine Reason's conception of things is not subject to time but is
eternal, according to Prov. 8:23, therefore it is that this kind of law must be called eternal.

Reply Obj. 1: Those things that are not in themselves, exist with God, inasmuch as they are
foreknown and preordained by Him, according to Rom. 4:17: "Who calls those things that are
not, as those that are." Accordingly the eternal concept of the Divine law bears the character
of an eternal law, in so far as it is ordained by God to the government of things foreknown by Him.

Reply Obj. 2: Promulgation is made by word of mouth or in writing; and in both ways the eternal
law is promulgated: because both the Divine Word and the writing of the Book of Life are eternal.
But the promulgation cannot be from eternity on the part of the creature that hears or reads.

Reply Obj. 3: The law implies order to the end actively, in so far as it directs certain things
to the end; but not passively--that is to say, the law itself is not ordained to the end--except
accidentally, in a governor whose end is extrinsic to him, and to which end his law must needs
be ordained. But the end of the Divine government is God Himself, and His law is not distinct
from Himself. Wherefore the eternal law is not ordained to another end.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 91, Art. 2]

Whether There Is in Us a Natural Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is no natural law in us. Because man is governed sufficiently
by the eternal law: for Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i) that "the eternal law is that by which
it is right that all things should be most orderly." But nature does not abound in superfluities
as neither does she fail in necessaries. Therefore no law is natural to man.

Obj. 2: Further, by the law man is directed, in his acts, to the end, as stated above (Q. 90,
A. 2). But the directing of human acts to their end is not a function of nature, as is the
case in irrational creatures, which act for an end solely by their natural appetite; whereas
man acts for an end by his reason and will. Therefore no law is natural to man.

Obj. 3: Further, the more a man is free, the less is he under the law. But man is freer than
all the animals, on account of his free-will, with which he is endowed above all other animals.
Since therefore other animals are not subject to a natural law, neither is man subject to a
natural law.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, A. 1, ad 1), law, being a rule and measure, can be in
a person in two ways: in one way, as in him that rules and measures; in another way, as in
that which is ruled and measured, since a thing is ruled and measured, in so far as it partakes
of the rule or measure. Wherefore, since all things subject to Divine providence are ruled
and measured by the eternal law, as was stated above (A. 1); it is evident that all things
partake somewhat of the eternal law, in so far as, namely, from its being imprinted on them,
they derive their respective inclinations to their proper acts and ends. Now among all others,
the rational creature is subject to Divine providence in the most excellent way, in so far
as it partakes of a share of providence, by being provident both for itself and for others.
Wherefore it has a share of the Eternal Reason, whereby it has a natural inclination to its
proper act and end: and this participation of the eternal law in the rational creature is called
the natural law. Hence the Psalmist after saying (Ps. 4:6): "Offer up the sacrifice of justice,"
as though someone asked what the works of justice are, adds: "Many say, Who showeth us good
things?" in answer to which question he says: "The light of Thy countenance, O Lord, is signed
upon us": thus implying that the light of natural reason, whereby we discern what is good and
what is evil, which is the function of the natural law, is nothing else than an imprint on
us of the Divine light. It is therefore evident that the natural law is nothing else than the
rational creature's participation of the eternal law.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument would hold, if the natural law were something different from the
eternal law: whereas it is nothing but a participation thereof, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Every act of reason and will in us is based on that which is according to nature,
as stated above (Q. 10, A. 1): for every act of reasoning is based on principles that are known
naturally, and every act of appetite in respect of the means is derived from the natural appetite
in respect of the last end. Accordingly the first direction of our acts to their end must needs
be in virtue of the natural law.

Reply Obj. 3: Even irrational animals partake in their own way of the Eternal Reason, just
as the rational creature does. But because the rational creature partakes thereof in an intellectual
and rational manner, therefore the participation of the eternal law in the rational creature
is properly called a law, since a law is something pertaining to reason, as stated above (Q.
90, A. 1). Irrational creatures, however, do not partake thereof in a rational manner, wherefore
there is no participation of the eternal law in them, except by way of similitude.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 91, Art. 3]

Whether There Is a Human Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is not a human law. For the natural law is a participation
of the eternal law, as stated above (A. 2). Now through the eternal law "all things are most
orderly," as Augustine states (De Lib. Arb. i, 6). Therefore the natural law suffices for the
ordering of all human affairs. Consequently there is no need for a human law.

Obj. 2: Further, a law bears the character of a measure, as stated above (Q. 90, A. 1). But
human reason is not a measure of things, but vice versa, as stated in Metaph. x, text. 5. Therefore
no law can emanate from human reason.

Obj. 3: Further, a measure should be most certain, as stated in Metaph. x, text. 3. Therefore
no law can emanate from human reason.

On the contrary, Augustine (De Lib. Arb. i, 6) distinguishes two kinds of law, the one eternal,
the other temporal, which he calls human.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, A. 1, ad 2), a law is a dictate of the practical reason.
Now it is to be observed that the same procedure takes place in the practical and in the speculative
reason: for each proceeds from principles to conclusions, as stated above (ibid.). Accordingly
we conclude that just as, in the speculative reason, from naturally known indemonstrable principles,
we draw the conclusions of the various sciences, the knowledge of which is not imparted to
us by nature, but acquired by the efforts of reason, so too it is from the precepts of the
natural law, as from general and indemonstrable principles, that the human reason needs to
proceed to the more particular determination of certain matters. These particular determinations,
devised by human reason, are called human laws, provided the other essential conditions of
law be observed, as stated above (Q. 90, AA. 2, 3, 4). Wherefore Tully says in his Rhetoric
(De Invent. Rhet. ii) that "justice has its source in nature; thence certain things came into
custom by reason of their utility; afterwards these things which emanated from nature and were
approved by custom, were sanctioned by fear and reverence for the law."

Reply Obj. 1: The human reason cannot have a full participation of the dictate of the Divine
Reason, but according to its own mode, and imperfectly. Consequently, as on the part of the
speculative reason, by a natural participation of Divine Wisdom, there is in us the knowledge
of certain general principles, but not proper knowledge of each single truth, such as that
contained in the Divine Wisdom; so too, on the part of the practical reason, man has a natural
participation of the eternal law, according to certain general principles, but not as regards
the particular determinations of individual cases, which are, however, contained in the eternal
law. Hence the need for human reason to proceed further to sanction them by law.

Reply Obj. 2: Human reason is not, of itself, the rule of things: but the principles impressed
on it by nature, are general rules and measures of all things relating to human conduct, whereof
the natural reason is the rule and measure, although it is not the measure of things that are
from nature.

Reply Obj. 3: The practical reason is concerned with practical matters, which are singular
and contingent: but not with necessary things, with which the speculative reason is concerned.
Wherefore human laws cannot have that inerrancy that belongs to the demonstrated conclusions
of sciences. Nor is it necessary for every measure to be altogether unerring and certain, but
according as it is possible in its own particular genus.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 91, Art. 4]

Whether There Was Any Need for a Divine Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that there was no need for a Divine law. Because, as stated above
(A. 2), the natural law is a participation in us of the eternal law. But the eternal law is
a Divine law, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore there was no need for a Divine law in addition
to the natural law, and human laws derived therefrom.

Obj. Now counsel is an act of reason, as stated above (Q. 14, A. 1). Therefore man was left
to the direction of his reason. But a dictate of human reason is a human law as stated above
(A. 3). Therefore there is no need for man to be governed also by a Divine law.

Obj. 3: Further, human nature is more self-sufficing than irrational creatures. But irrational
creatures have no Divine law besides the natural inclination impressed on them. Much less,
therefore, should the rational creature have a Divine law in addition to the natural law.

On the contrary, David prayed God to set His law before him, saying (Ps. 118:33): "Set before
me for a law the way of Thy justifications, O Lord."

I answer that, Besides the natural and the human law it was necessary for the directing of
human conduct to have a Divine law. And this for four reasons. First, because it is by law
that man is directed how to perform his proper acts in view of his last end. And indeed if
man were ordained to no other end than that which is proportionate to his natural faculty,
there would be no need for man to have any further direction of the part of his reason, besides
the natural law and human law which is derived from it. But since man is ordained to an end
of eternal happiness which is improportionate to man's natural faculty, as stated above (Q.
5, A. 5), therefore it was necessary that, besides the natural and the human law, man should
be directed to his end by a law given by God.

Secondly, because, on account of the uncertainty of human judgment, especially on contingent
and particular matters, different people form different judgments on human acts; whence also
different and contrary laws result. In order, therefore, that man may know without any doubt
what he ought to do and what he ought to avoid, it was necessary for man to be directed in
his proper acts by a law given by God, for it is certain that such a law cannot err.

Thirdly, because man can make laws in those matters of which he is competent to judge. But
man is not competent to judge of interior movements, that are hidden, but only of exterior
acts which appear: and yet for the perfection of virtue it is necessary for man to conduct
himself aright in both kinds of acts. Consequently human law could not sufficiently curb and
direct interior acts; and it was necessary for this purpose that a Divine law should supervene.

Fourthly, because, as Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 5, 6), human law cannot punish or forbid
all evil deeds: since while aiming at doing away with all evils, it would do away with many
good things, and would hinder the advance of the common good, which is necessary for human
intercourse. In order, therefore, that no evil might remain unforbidden and unpunished, it
was necessary for the Divine law to supervene, whereby all sins are forbidden.

And these four causes are touched upon in Ps. 118:8, where it is said: "The law of the Lord
is unspotted," i.e. allowing no foulness of sin; "converting souls," because it directs not
only exterior, but also interior acts; "the testimony of the Lord is faithful," because of
the certainty of what is true and right; "giving wisdom to little ones," by directing man to
an end supernatural and Divine.

Reply Obj. 1: By the natural law the eternal law is participated proportionately to the capacity
of human nature. But to his supernatural end man needs to be directed in a yet higher way.
Hence the additional law given by God, whereby man shares more perfectly in the eternal law.

Reply Obj. 2: Counsel is a kind of inquiry: hence it must proceed from some principles. Nor
is it enough for it to proceed from principles imparted by nature, which are the precepts of
the natural law, for the reasons given above: but there is need for certain additional principles,
namely, the precepts of the Divine law.

Reply Obj. 3: Irrational creatures are not ordained to an end higher than that which is proportionate
to their natural powers: consequently the comparison fails.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 91, Art. 5]

Whether There Is but One Divine Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is but one Divine law. Because, where there is one king
in one kingdom there is but one law. Now the whole of mankind is compared to God as to one
king, according to Ps. 46:8: "God is the King of all the earth." Therefore there is but one
Divine law.

Obj. 2: Further, every law is directed to the end which the lawgiver intends for those for
whom he makes the law. But God intends one and the same thing for all men; since according
to 1 Tim. 2:4: "He will have all men to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of the truth."
Therefore there is but one Divine law.

Obj. 3: Further, the Divine law seems to be more akin to the eternal law, which is one, than
the natural law, according as the revelation of grace is of a higher order than natural knowledge.
Therefore much more is the Divine law but one.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Heb. 7:12): "The priesthood being translated, it is necessary
that a translation also be made of the law." But the priesthood is twofold, as stated in the
same passage, viz. the levitical priesthood, and the priesthood of Christ. Therefore the Divine
law is twofold, namely the Old Law and the New Law.

I answer that, As stated in the First Part (Q. 30, A. 3), distinction is the cause of number.
Now things may be distinguished in two ways. First, as those things that are altogether specifically
different, e.g. a horse and an ox. Secondly, as perfect and imperfect in the same species,
e.g. a boy and a man: and in this way the Divine law is divided into Old and New. Hence the
Apostle (Gal. 3:24, 25) compares the state of man under the Old Law to that of a child "under
a pedagogue"; but the state under the New Law, to that of a full grown man, who is "no longer
under a pedagogue."

Now the perfection and imperfection of these two laws is to be taken in connection with the
three conditions pertaining to law, as stated above. For, in the first place, it belongs to
law to be directed to the common good as to its end, as stated above (Q. 90, A. 2). This good
may be twofold. It may be a sensible and earthly good; and to this, man was directly ordained
by the Old Law: wherefore, at the very outset of the law, the people were invited to the earthly
kingdom of the Chananaeans (Ex. 3:8, 17). Again it may be an intelligible and heavenly good:
and to this, man is ordained by the New Law. Wherefore, at the very beginning of His preaching,
Christ invited men to the kingdom of heaven, saying (Matt. 4:17): "Do penance, for the kingdom
of heaven is at hand." Hence Augustine says (Contra Faust. iv) that "promises of temporal goods
are contained in the Old Testament, for which reason it is called old; but the promise of eternal
life belongs to the New Testament." Hence the saying that "the Old Law restrains the hand,
but the New Law controls the mind" ( Sentent. iii, D, xl).

Thirdly, it belongs to the law to induce men to observe its commandments. This the Old Law
did by the fear of punishment: but the New Law, by love, which is poured into our hearts by
the grace of Christ, bestowed in the New Law, but foreshadowed in the Old. Hence Augustine
says (Contra Adimant. Manich. discip. xvii) that "there is little difference [*The 'little
difference' refers to the Latin words 'timor' and 'amor'--'fear' and 'love.'] between the Law
and the Gospel--fear and love."

Reply Obj. 1: As the father of a family issues different commands to the children and to the
adults, so also the one King, God, in His one kingdom, gave one law to men, while they were
yet imperfect, and another more perfect law, when, by the preceding law, they had been led
to a greater capacity for Divine things.

Reply Obj. 2: The salvation of man could not be achieved otherwise than through Christ, according
to Acts 4:12: "There is no other name . . . given to men, whereby we must be saved." Consequently
the law that brings all to salvation could not be given until after the coming of Christ. But
before His coming it was necessary to give to the people, of whom Christ was to be born, a
law containing certain rudiments of righteousness unto salvation, in order to prepare them
to receive Him.

Reply Obj. 3: The natural law directs man by way of certain general precepts, common to both
the perfect and the imperfect: wherefore it is one and the same for all. But the Divine law
directs man also in certain particular matters, to which the perfect and imperfect do not stand
in the same relation. Hence the necessity for the Divine law to be twofold, as already explained.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 91, Art. 6]

Whether There Is a Law in the Fomes of Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that there is no law of the fomes of sin. For Isidore says (Etym.
v) that the "law is based on reason." But the fomes of sin is not based on reason, but deviates
from it. Therefore the fomes has not the nature of a law.

Obj. 2: Further, every law is binding, so that those who do not obey it are called transgressors.
But man is not called a transgressor, from not following the instigations of the fomes; but
rather from his following them. Therefore the fomes has not the nature of a law.

Obj. 3: Further, the law is ordained to the common good, as stated above (Q. 90, A. 2). But
the fomes inclines us, not to the common, but to our own private good. Therefore the fomes
has not the nature of sin.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2; Q. 90, A. 1, ad 1), the law, as to its essence, resides
in him that rules and measures; but, by way of participation, in that which is ruled and measured;
so that every inclination or ordination which may be found in things subject to the law, is
called a law by participation, as stated above (A. 2; Q. 90, A. 1, ad 1). Now those who are
subject to a law may receive a twofold inclination from the lawgiver. First, in so far as he
directly inclines his subjects to something; sometimes indeed different subjects to different
acts; in this way we may say that there is a military law and a mercantile law. Secondly, indirectly;
thus by the very fact that a lawgiver deprives a subject of some dignity, the latter passes
into another order, so as to be under another law, as it were: thus if a soldier be turned
out of the army, he becomes a subject of rural or of mercantile legislation.

Accordingly under the Divine Lawgiver various creatures have various natural inclinations,
so that what is, as it were, a law for one, is against the law for another: thus I might say
that fierceness is, in a way, the law of a dog, but against the law of a sheep or another meek
animal. And so the law of man, which, by the Divine ordinance, is allotted to him, according
to his proper natural condition, is that he should act in accordance with reason: and this
law was so effective in the primitive state, that nothing either beside or against reason could
take man unawares.

So, then, this very inclination of sensuality which is called the fomes, in other animals has
simply the nature of a law (yet only in so far as a law may be said to be in such things),
by reason of a direct inclination. But in man, it has not the nature of law in this way, rather
is it a deviation from the law of reason. But since, by the just sentence of God, man is destitute
of original justice, and his reason bereft of its vigor, this impulse of sensuality, whereby
he is led, in so far as it is a penalty following from the Divine law depriving man of his
proper dignity, has the nature of a law.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers the fomes in itself, as an incentive to evil. It is not
thus that it has the nature of a law, as stated above, but according as it results from the
justice of the Divine law: it is as though we were to say that the law allows a nobleman to
be condemned to hard labor for some misdeed.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument considers law in the light of a rule or measure: for it is in this
sense that those who deviate from the law become transgressors. But the fomes is not a law
in this respect, but by a kind of participation, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers the fomes as to its proper inclination, and not as to
its origin. And yet if the inclination of sensuality be considered as it is in other animals,
thus it is ordained to the common good, namely, to the preservation of nature in the species
or in the individual. And this is in man also, in so far as sensuality is subject to reason.
But it is called fomes in so far as it strays from the order of reason.

QUESTION 92

OF THE EFFECTS OF LAW (In Two articles)

We must now consider the effects of law; under which head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether an effect of law is to make men good?

(2) Whether the effects of law are to command, to forbid, to permit, and to punish, as the
Jurist states?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 92, Art. 1]

Whether an Effect of Law Is to Make Men Good?

Objection 1: It seems that it is not an effect of law to make men good. For men are good through
virtue, since virtue, as stated in Ethic. ii, 6 is "that which makes its subject good." But
virtue is in man from God alone, because He it is Who "works it in us without us," as we stated
above (Q. 55, A. 4) in giving the definition of virtue. Therefore the law does not make men good.

Obj. 2: Further, Law does not profit a man unless he obeys it. But the very fact that a man
obeys a law is due to his being good. Therefore in man goodness is presupposed to the law.
Therefore the law does not make men good. But some behave well in things regarding the community,
who behave ill in things regarding themselves. Therefore it is not the business of the law
to make men good.

Obj. 4: Further, some laws are tyrannical, as the Philosopher says (Polit. iii, 6). But a tyrant
does not intend the good of his subjects, but considers only his own profit. Therefore law
does not make men good.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. ii, 1) that the "intention of every lawgiver
is to make good citizens." Now the virtue of any subordinate thing consists in its being well
subordinated to that by which it is regulated: thus we see that the virtue of the irascible
and concupiscible faculties consists in their being obedient to reason; and accordingly "the
virtue of every subject consists in his being well subjected to his ruler," as the Philosopher
says (Polit. i). But every law aims at being obeyed by those who are subject to it. Consequently
it is evident that the proper effect of law is to lead its subjects to their proper virtue:
and since virtue is "that which makes its subject good," it follows that the proper effect
of law is to make those to whom it is given, good, either simply or in some particular respect.
For if the intention of the lawgiver is fixed on true good, which is the common good regulated
according to Divine justice, it follows that the effect of the law is to make men good simply.
If, however, the intention of the lawgiver is fixed on that which is not simply good, but useful
or pleasurable to himself, or in opposition to Divine justice; then the law does not make men
good simply, but in respect to that particular government. In this way good is found even in
things that are bad of themselves: thus a man is called a good robber, because he works in
a way that is adapted to his end.

Reply Obj. 1: Virtue is twofold, as explained above (Q. 63, A. 2), viz. acquired and infused.
Now the fact of being accustomed to an action contributes to both, but in different ways; for
it causes the acquired virtue; while it disposes to infused virtue, and preserves and fosters
it when it already exists. And since law is given for the purpose of directing human acts;
as far as human acts conduce to virtue, so far does law make men good. Wherefore the Philosopher
says in the second book of the Politics (Ethic. ii) that "lawgivers make men good by habituating
them to good works."

Reply Obj. 2: It is not always through perfect goodness of virtue that one obeys the law, but
sometimes it is through fear of punishment, and sometimes from the mere dictates of reason,
which is a beginning of virtue, as stated above (Q. 63, A. 1).

Reply Obj. 3: The goodness of any part is considered in comparison with the whole; hence Augustine
says (Confess. iii) that "unseemly is the part that harmonizes not with the whole." Since then
every man is a part of the state, it is impossible that a man be good, unless he be well proportionate
to the common good: nor can the whole be well consistent unless its parts be proportionate
to it. Consequently the common good of the state cannot flourish, unless the citizens be virtuous,
at least those whose business it is to govern. But it is enough for the good of the community,
that the other citizens be so far virtuous that they obey the commands of their rulers. Hence
the Philosopher says (Polit. ii, 2) that "the virtue of a sovereign is the same as that of
a good man, but the virtue of any common citizen is not the same as that of a good man."

Reply Obj. 4: A tyrannical law, through not being according to reason, is not a law, absolutely
speaking, but rather a perversion of law; and yet in so far as it is something in the nature
of a law, it aims at the citizens' being good. For all it has in the nature of a law consists
in its being an ordinance made by a superior to his subjects, and aims at being obeyed by them,
which is to make them good, not simply, but with respect to that particular government.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 92, Art. 2]

Whether the Acts of Law Are Suitably Assigned?

Objection 1: It would seem that the acts of law are not suitably assigned as consisting in
"command, prohibition, permission, and punishment." For "every law is a general precept," as
the Jurist states. But command and precept are the same. Therefore the other three are superfluous.

Obj. 2: Further, the effect of a law is to induce its subjects to be good, as stated above
(A. 1). But counsel aims at a higher good than a command does. Therefore it belongs to law
to counsel rather than to command.

Obj. 3: Further, just as punishment stirs a man to good deeds, so does reward. Therefore if
to punish is reckoned an effect of law, so also is to reward.

Obj. 4: Further, the intention of a lawgiver is to make men good, as stated above (A. 1). But
he that obeys the law, merely through fear of being punished, is not good: because "although
a good deed may be done through servile fear, i.e. fear of punishment, it is not done well,"
as Augustine says (Contra duas Epist. Pelag. ii). Therefore punishment is not a proper effect
of law.

On the contrary, Isidore says (Etym. v, 19): "Every law either permits something, as: 'A brave
man may demand his reward'": or forbids something, as: "No man may ask a consecrated virgin
in marriage": or punishes, as: "Let him that commits a murder be put to death."

I answer that, Just as an assertion is a dictate of reason asserting something, so is a law
a dictate of reason, commanding something. Now it is proper to reason to lead from one thing
to another. Wherefore just as, in demonstrative sciences, the reason leads us from certain
principles to assent to the conclusion, so it induces us by some means to assent to the precept
of the law.

Now the precepts of law are concerned with human acts, in which the law directs, as stated
above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2; Q. 91, A. 4). Again there are three kinds of human acts: for, as stated
above (Q. 18, A. 8), some acts are good generically, viz. acts of virtue; and in respect of
these the act of the law is a precept or command, for "the law commands all acts of virtue"
(Ethic. v, 1). Some acts are evil generically, viz. acts of vice, and in respect of these the
law forbids. Some acts are generically indifferent, and in respect of these the law permits;
and all acts that are either not distinctly good or not distinctly bad may be called indifferent.
And it is the fear of punishment that law makes use of in order to ensure obedience: in which
respect punishment is an effect of law.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as to cease from evil is a kind of good, so a prohibition is a kind of precept:
and accordingly, taking precept in a wide sense, every law is a kind of precept.

Reply Obj. 2: To advise is not a proper act of law, but may be within the competency even of
a private person, who cannot make a law. Wherefore too the Apostle, after giving a certain
counsel (1 Cor. 7:12) says: "I speak, not the Lord." Consequently it is not reckoned as an
effect of law.

Reply Obj. 3: To reward may also pertain to anyone: but to punish pertains to none but the
framer of the law, by whose authority the pain is inflicted. Wherefore to reward is not reckoned
an effect of law, but only to punish.

Reply Obj. 4: From becoming accustomed to avoid evil and fulfill what is good, through fear
of punishment, one is sometimes led on to do so likewise, with delight and of one's own accord.
Accordingly, law, even by punishing, leads men on to being good. Of the sixth law which is
the law of the fomes, suffice what we have said when treating of original sin.

Concerning the first there are six points of inquiry:

(1) What is the eternal law?

(2) Whether it is known to all?

(3) Whether every law is derived from it?

(4) Whether necessary things are subject to the eternal law?

(5) Whether natural contingencies are subject to the eternal law?

(6) Whether all human things are subject to it?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 93, Art. 1]

Whether the Eternal Law Is a Sovereign Type [*Ratio] Existing in God?

Objection 1: It would seem that the eternal law is not a sovereign type existing in God. For
there is only one eternal law. But there are many types of things in the Divine mind; for Augustine
says (Qq. lxxxiii, qu. 46) that God "made each thing according to its type." Therefore the
eternal law does not seem to be a type existing in the Divine mind.

Obj. 2: Further, it is essential to a law that it be promulgated by word, as stated above (Q.
90, A. 4). But Word is a Personal name in God, as stated in the First Part (Q. 34, A. 1): whereas
type refers to the Essence. Therefore the eternal law is not the same as a Divine type.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Vera Relig. xxx): "We see a law above our minds, which
is called truth." But the law which is above our minds is the eternal law. Therefore truth
is the eternal law. But the idea of truth is not the same as the idea of a type. Therefore
the eternal law is not the same as the sovereign type.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6) that "the eternal law is the sovereign
type, to which we must always conform."

I answer that, Just as in every artificer there pre-exists a type of the things that are made
by his art, so too in every governor there must pre-exist the type of the order of those things
that are to be done by those who are subject to his government. And just as the type of the
things yet to be made by an art is called the art or exemplar of the products of that art,
so too the type in him who governs the acts of his subjects, bears the character of a law,
provided the other conditions be present which we have mentioned above (Q. 90). Now God, by
His wisdom, is the Creator of all things in relation to which He stands as the artificer to
the products of his art, as stated in the First Part (Q. 14, A. 8). Moreover He governs all
the acts and movements that are to be found in each single creature, as was also stated in
the First Part (Q. 103, A. 5). Wherefore as the type of the Divine Wisdom, inasmuch as by It
all things are created, has the character of art, exemplar or idea; so the type of Divine Wisdom,
as moving all things to their due end, bears the character of law. Accordingly the eternal
law is nothing else than the type of Divine Wisdom, as directing all actions and movements.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine is speaking in that passage of the ideal types which regard the proper
nature of each single thing; and consequently in them there is a certain distinction and plurality,
according to their different relations to things, as stated in the First Part (Q. 15, A. 2).
But law is said to direct human acts by ordaining them to the common good, as stated above
(Q. 90, A. 2). And things, which are in themselves different, may be considered as one, according
as they are ordained to one common thing. Wherefore the eternal law is one since it is the
type of this order.

Reply Obj. 2: With regard to any sort of word, two points may be considered: viz. the word
itself, and that which is expressed by the word. For the spoken word is something uttered by
the mouth of man, and expresses that which is signified by the human word. The same applies
to the human mental word, which is nothing else than something conceived by the mind, by which
man expresses his thoughts mentally. So then in God the Word conceived by the intellect of
the Father is the name of a Person: but all things that are in the Father's knowledge, whether
they refer to the Essence or to the Persons, or to the works of God, are expressed by this
Word, as Augustine declares (De Trin. xv, 14). And among other things expressed by this Word,
the eternal law itself is expressed thereby. Nor does it follow that the eternal law is a Personal
name in God: yet it is appropriated to the Son, on account of the kinship between type and word.

Reply Obj. 3: The types of the Divine intellect do not stand in the same relation to things,
as the types of the human intellect. For the human intellect is measured by things, so that
a human concept is not true by reason of itself, but by reason of its being consonant with
things, since "an opinion is true or false according as it answers to the reality." But the
Divine intellect is the measure of things: since each thing has so far truth in it, as it represents
the Divine intellect, as was stated in the First Part (Q. 16, A. 1). Consequently the Divine
intellect is true in itself; and its type is truth itself.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 93, Art. 2]

Whether the Eternal Law Is Known to All?

Objection 1: It would seem that the eternal law is not known to all. Because, as the Apostle
says (1 Cor. 2:11), "the things that are of God no man knoweth, but the Spirit of God." But
the eternal law is a type existing in the Divine mind. Therefore it is unknown to all save
God alone.

Obj. 2: Further, as Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6) "the eternal law is that by which it
is right that all things should be most orderly." But all do not know how all things are most
orderly. Therefore all do not know the eternal law.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Vera Relig. xxxi) that "the eternal law is not subject
to the judgment of man." But according to Ethic. i, "any man can judge well of what he knows."
Therefore the eternal law is not known to us.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6) that "knowledge of the eternal law is imprinted
on us."

I answer that, A thing may be known in two ways: first, in itself; secondly, in its effect,
wherein some likeness of that thing is found: thus someone not seeing the sun in its substance,
may know it by its rays. So then no one can know the eternal law, as it is in itself, except
the blessed who see God in His Essence. But every rational creature knows it in its reflection,
greater or less. For every knowledge of truth is a kind of reflection and participation of
the eternal law, which is the unchangeable truth, as Augustine says (De Vera Relig. xxxi).
Now all men know the truth to a certain extent, at least as to the common principles of the
natural law: and as to the others, they partake of the knowledge of truth, some more, some
less; and in this respect are more or less cognizant of the eternal law.

Reply Obj.

Reply Obj. 2: Although each one knows the eternal law according to his own capacity, in the
way explained above, yet none can comprehend it: for it cannot be made perfectly known by its
effects. Therefore it does not follow that anyone who knows the eternal law in the way aforesaid,
knows also the whole order of things, whereby they are most orderly.

Reply Obj. 3: To judge a thing may be understood in two ways. First, as when a cognitive power
judges of its proper object, according to Job 12:11: "Doth not the ear discern words, and the
palate of him that eateth, the taste?" It is to this kind of judgment that the Philosopher
alludes when he says that "anyone can judge well of what he knows," by judging, namely, whether
what is put forward is true. In another way we speak of a superior judging of a subordinate
by a kind of practical judgment, as to whether he should be such and such or not. And thus
none can judge of the eternal law.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 93, Art. 3]

Whether Every Law Is Derived from the Eternal Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that not every law is derived from the eternal law. For there is
a law of the fomes, as stated above (Q. 91, A. 6), which is not derived from that Divine law
which is the eternal law, since thereunto pertains the "prudence of the flesh," of which the
Apostle says (Rom. 8:7), that "it cannot be subject to the law of God." Therefore not every
law is derived from the eternal law.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing unjust can be derived from the eternal law, because, as stated above
(A. 2, Obj. 2), "the eternal law is that, according to which it is right that all things should
be most orderly." But some laws are unjust, according to Isa. 10:1: "Woe to them that make
wicked laws." Therefore not every law is derived from the eternal law.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 5) that "the law which is framed for ruling
the people, rightly permits many things which are punished by Divine providence." But the type
of Divine providence is the eternal law, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore not even every good
law is derived from the eternal law.

On the contrary, Divine Wisdom says (Prov. 8:15): "By Me kings reign, and lawgivers decree
just things." But the type of Divine Wisdom is the eternal law, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore
all laws proceed from the eternal law.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2), the law denotes a kind of plan directing
acts towards an end. Now wherever there are movers ordained to one another, the power of the
second mover must needs be derived from the power of the first mover; since the second mover
does not move except in so far as it is moved by the first. Wherefore we observe the same in
all those who govern, so that the plan of government is derived by secondary governors from
the governor in chief; thus the plan of what is to be done in a state flows from the king's
command to his inferior administrators: and again in things of art the plan of whatever is
to be done by art flows from the chief craftsman to the under-craftsmen, who work with their
hands. Since then the eternal law is the plan of government in the Chief Governor, all the
plans of government in the inferior governors must be derived from the eternal law. But these
plans of inferior governors are all other laws besides the eternal law. Therefore all laws,
in so far as they partake of right reason, are derived from the eternal law. Hence Augustine
says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6) that "in temporal law there is nothing just and lawful, but what man
has drawn from the eternal law."

Reply Obj. 1: The fomes has the nature of law in man, in so far as it is a punishment resulting
from Divine justice; and in this respect it is evident that it is derived from the eternal
law. But in so far as it denotes a proneness to sin, it is contrary to the Divine law, and
has not the nature of law, as stated above (Q. 91, A. 6).

Reply Obj. 2: Human law has the nature of law in so far as it partakes of right reason; and
it is clear that, in this respect, it is derived from the eternal law. But in so far as it
deviates from reason, it is called an unjust law, and has the nature, not of law but of violence.
Nevertheless even an unjust law, in so far as it retains some appearance of law, though being
framed by one who is in power, is derived from the eternal law; since all power is from the
Lord God, according to Rom. 13:1.

Reply Obj. 3: Human law is said to permit certain things, not as approving them, but as being
unable to direct them. And many things are directed by the Divine law, which human law is unable
to direct, because more things are subject to a higher than to a lower cause. Hence the very
fact that human law does not meddle with matters it cannot direct, comes under the ordination
of the eternal law. It would be different, were human law to sanction what the eternal law
condemns. Consequently it does not follow that human law is not derived from the eternal law,
but that it is not on a perfect equality with it.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 93, Art. 4]

Whether Necessary and Eternal Things Are Subject to the Eternal Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that necessary and eternal things are subject to the eternal law.
For whatever is reasonable is subject to reason. But the Divine will is reasonable, for it
is just. Therefore it is subject to (the Divine) reason. But the eternal law is the Divine
reason. Therefore God's will is subject to the eternal law. But God's will is eternal. Therefore
eternal and necessary things are subject to the eternal law.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is subject to the King, is subject to the King's law. Now the Son,
according to 1 Cor. 15:28, 24, "shall be subject . . . to God and the Father . . . when He
shall have delivered up the Kingdom to Him." Therefore the Son, Who is eternal, is subject
to the eternal law.

Obj. 3: Further, the eternal law is Divine providence as a type. But many necessary things
are subject to Divine providence: for instance, the stability of incorporeal substances and
of the heavenly bodies. Therefore even necessary things are subject to the eternal law.

On the contrary, Things that are necessary cannot be otherwise, and consequently need no restraining.
But laws are imposed on men, in order to restrain them from evil, as explained above (Q. 92,
A. 2). Therefore necessary things are not subject to the eternal law.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the eternal law is the type of the Divine government.
Consequently whatever is subject to the Divine government, is subject to the eternal law: while
if anything is not subject to the Divine government, neither is it subject to the eternal law.
The application of this distinction may be gathered by looking around us. For those things
are subject to human government, which can be done by man; but what pertains to the nature
of man is not subject to human government; for instance, that he should have a soul, hands,
or feet. Accordingly all that is in things created by God, whether it be contingent or necessary,
is subject to the eternal law: while things pertaining to the Divine Nature or Essence are
not subject to the eternal law, but are the eternal law itself.

Reply Obj. 1: We may speak of God's will in two ways. First, as to the will itself: and thus,
since God's will is His very Essence, it is subject neither to the Divine government, nor to
the eternal law, but is the same thing as the eternal law. Secondly, we may speak of God's
will, as to the things themselves that God wills about creatures; which things are subject
to the eternal law, in so far as they are planned by Divine Wisdom. In reference to these things
God's will is said to be reasonable (rationalis): though regarded in itself it should rather
be called their type (ratio).

Reply Obj. 2: God the Son was not made by God, but was naturally born of God. Consequently
He is not subject to Divine providence or to the eternal law: but rather is Himself the eternal
law by a kind of appropriation, as Augustine explains (De Vera Relig. xxxi). But He is said
to be subject to the Father by reason of His human nature, in respect of which also the Father
is said to be greater than He.

The third objection we grant, because it deals with those necessary things that are created.

Reply Obj. 4: As the Philosopher says (Metaph. v, text. 6), some necessary things have a cause
of their necessity: and thus they derive from something else the fact that they cannot be otherwise.
And this is in itself a most effective restraint; for whatever is restrained, is said to be
restrained in so far as it cannot do otherwise than it is allowed to.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 93, Art. 5]

Whether Natural Contingents Are Subject to the Eternal Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that natural contingents are not subject to the eternal law. Because
promulgation is essential to law, as stated above (Q. 90, A. 4). But a law cannot be promulgated
except to rational creatures, to whom it is possible to make an announcement. Therefore none
but rational creatures are subject to the eternal law; and consequently natural contingents
are not.

Obj. 2: Further, "Whatever obeys reason partakes somewhat of reason," as stated in Ethic. i.
But the eternal law is the supreme type, as stated above (A. 1). Since then natural contingents
do not partake of reason in any way, but are altogether void of reason, it seems that they
are not subject to the eternal law.

Obj. 3: Further, the eternal law is most efficient. But in natural contingents defects occur.
Therefore they are not subject to the eternal law.

On the contrary, It is written (Prov. 8:29): "When He compassed the sea with its bounds, and
set a law to the waters, that they should not pass their limits."

I answer that, We must speak otherwise of the law of man, than of the eternal law which is
the law of God. For the law of man extends only to rational creatures subject to man. The reason
of this is because law directs the actions of those that are subject to the government of someone:
wherefore, properly speaking, none imposes a law on his own actions. Now whatever is done regarding
the use of irrational things subject to man, is done by the act of man himself moving those
things, for these irrational creatures do not move themselves, but are moved by others, as
stated above (Q. 1, A. 2). Consequently man cannot impose laws on irrational beings, however
much they may be subject to him. But he can impose laws on rational beings subject to him,
in so far as by his command or pronouncement of any kind, he imprints on their minds a rule
which is a principle of action.

Now just as man, by such pronouncement, impresses a kind of inward principle of action on the
man that is subject to him, so God imprints on the whole of nature the principles of its proper
actions. And so, in this way, God is said to command the whole of nature, according to Ps.
148:6: "He hath made a decree, and it shall not pass away." And thus all actions and movements
of the whole of nature are subject to the eternal law. Consequently irrational creatures are
subject to the eternal law, through being moved by Divine providence; but not, as rational
creatures are, through understanding the Divine commandment.

Reply Obj. 1: The impression of an inward active principle is to natural things, what the promulgation
of law is to men: because law, by being promulgated, imprints on man a directive principle
of human actions, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Irrational creatures neither partake of nor are obedient to human reason: whereas
they do partake of the Divine Reason by obeying it; because the power of Divine Reason extends
over more things than human reason does. And as the members of the human body are moved at
the command of reason, and yet do not partake of reason, since they have no apprehension subordinate
to reason; so too irrational creatures are moved by God, without, on that account, being rational.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the defects which occur in natural things are outside the order of particular
causes, they are not outside the order of universal causes, especially of the First Cause,
i.e. God, from Whose providence nothing can escape, as stated in the First Part (Q. 22, A.
2). And since the eternal law is the type of Divine providence, as stated above (A. 1), hence
the defects of natural things are subject to the eternal law.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 93, Art. 6]

Whether All Human Affairs Are Subject to the Eternal Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that not all human affairs are subject to the eternal law. For the
Apostle says (Gal. 5:18): "If you are led by the spirit you are not under the law." Therefore
not all men are under the eternal law.

Obj. But many are those in whom the prudence of the flesh dominates. Therefore all men are
not subject to the eternal law which is the law of God.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6) that "the eternal law is that by which
the wicked deserve misery, the good, a life of blessedness." But those who are already blessed,
and those who are already lost, are not in the state of merit. Therefore they are not under
the eternal law.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xix, 12): "Nothing evades the laws of the most
high Creator and Governor, for by Him the peace of the universe is administered."

I answer that, There are two ways in which a thing is subject to the eternal law, as explained
above (A. 5): first, by partaking of the eternal law by way of knowledge; secondly, by way
of action and passion, i.e. by partaking of the eternal law by way of an inward motive principle:
and in this second way, irrational creatures are subject to the eternal law, as stated above
(A. 5). But since the rational nature, together with that which it has in common with all creatures,
has something proper to itself inasmuch as it is rational, consequently it is subject to the
eternal law in both ways; because while each rational creature has some knowledge of the eternal
law, as stated above (A. 2), it also has a natural inclination to that which is in harmony
with the eternal law; for "we are naturally adapted to the recipients of virtue" (Ethic. ii, 1).

Both ways, however, are imperfect, and to a certain extent destroyed, in the wicked; because
in them the natural inclination to virtue is corrupted by vicious habits, and, moreover, the
natural knowledge of good is darkened by passions and habits of sin. But in the good both ways
are found more perfect: because in them, besides the natural knowledge of good, there is the
added knowledge of faith and wisdom; and again, besides the natural inclination to good, there
is the added motive of grace and virtue.

Accordingly, the good are perfectly subject to the eternal law, as always acting according
to it: whereas the wicked are subject to the eternal law, imperfectly as to their actions,
indeed, since both their knowledge of good, and their inclination thereto, are imperfect; but
this imperfection on the part of action is supplied on the part of passion, in so far as they
suffer what the eternal law decrees concerning them, according as they fail to act in harmony
with that law. Hence Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 15): "I esteem that the righteous act
according to the eternal law; and (De Catech. Rud. xviii): Out of the just misery of the souls
which deserted Him, God knew how to furnish the inferior parts of His creation with most suitable
laws."

Reply Obj. 1: This saying of the Apostle may be understood in two ways. First, so that a man
is said to be under the law, through being pinned down thereby, against his will, as by a load.
Hence, on the same passage a gloss says that "he is under the law, who refrains from evil deeds,
through fear of punishment threatened by the law, and not from love of virtue." In this way
the spiritual man is not under the law, because he fulfils the law willingly, through charity
which is poured into his heart by the Holy Ghost. Secondly, it can be understood as meaning
that the works of a man, who is led by the Holy Ghost, are the works of the Holy Ghost rather
than his own. Therefore, since the Holy Ghost is not under the law, as neither is the Son,
as stated above (A. 4, ad 2); it follows that such works, in so far as they are of the Holy
Ghost, are not under the law. The Apostle witnesses to this when he says (2 Cor. 3:17): "Where
the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty."

Reply Obj. 2: The prudence of the flesh cannot be subject to the law of God as regards action;
since it inclines to actions contrary to the Divine law: yet it is subject to the law of God,
as regards passion; since it deserves to suffer punishment according to the law of Divine justice.
Nevertheless in no man does the prudence of the flesh dominate so far as to destroy the whole
good of his nature: and consequently there remains in man the inclination to act in accordance
with the eternal law. For we have seen above (Q. 85, A. 2) that sin does not destroy entirely
the good of nature.

Reply Obj. 3: A thing is maintained in the end and moved towards the end by one and the same
cause: thus gravity which makes a heavy body rest in the lower place is also the cause of its
being moved thither. We therefore reply that as it is according to the eternal law that some
deserve happiness, others unhappiness, so is it by the eternal law that some are maintained
in a happy state, others in an unhappy state. Accordingly both the blessed and the damned are
under the eternal law.

QUESTION 94

OF THE NATURAL LAW (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the natural law; concerning which there are six points of inquiry:

(1) What is the natural law?

(2) What are the precepts of the natural law?

(3) Whether all acts of virtue are prescribed by the natural law?

(4) Whether the natural law is the same in all?

(5) Whether it is changeable?

(6) Whether it can be abolished from the heart of man?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 94, Art. 1]

Whether the Natural Law Is a Habit?

Objection 1: It would seem that the natural law is a habit. Because, as the Philosopher says
(Ethic. ii, 5), "there are three things in the soul: power, habit, and passion." But the natural
law is not one of the soul's powers: nor is it one of the passions; as we may see by going
through them one by one. Therefore the natural law is a habit.

Obj. 2: Further, Basil [*Damascene, De Fide Orth. iv, 22] says that the conscience or synderesis
"is the law of our mind"; which can only apply to the natural law. But the "synderesis" is
a habit, as was shown in the First Part (Q. 79, A. 12). Therefore the natural law is a habit.

Obj. 3: Further, the natural law abides in man always, as will be shown further on (A. 6).
But man's reason, which the law regards, does not always think about the natural law. Therefore
the natural law is not an act, but a habit.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Bono Conjug. xxi) that "a habit is that whereby something
is done when necessary." But such is not the natural law: since it is in infants and in the
damned who cannot act by it. Therefore the natural law is not a habit.

I answer that, A thing may be called a habit in two ways. First, properly and essentially:
and thus the natural law is not a habit. For it has been stated above (Q. 90, A. 1, ad 2) that
the natural law is something appointed by reason, just as a proposition is a work of reason.
Now that which a man does is not the same as that whereby he does it: for he makes a becoming
speech by the habit of grammar. Since then a habit is that by which we act, a law cannot be
a habit properly and essentially.

Secondly, the term habit may be applied to that which we hold by a habit: thus faith may mean
that which we hold by faith. And accordingly, since the precepts of the natural law are sometimes
considered by reason actually, while sometimes they are in the reason only habitually, in this
way the natural law may be called a habit. Thus, in speculative matters, the indemonstrable
principles are not the habit itself whereby we hold those principles, but are the principles
the habit of which we possess.

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher proposes there to discover the genus of virtue; and since it
is evident that virtue is a principle of action, he mentions only those things which are principles
of human acts, viz. powers, habits and passions. But there are other things in the soul besides
these three: there are acts; thus to will is in the one that wills; again, things known are
in the knower; moreover its own natural properties are in the soul, such as immortality and
the like.

Reply Obj. 2: Synderesis is said to be the law of our mind, because it is a habit containing
the precepts of the natural law, which are the first principles of human actions.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument proves that the natural law is held habitually; and this is granted.

To the argument advanced in the contrary sense we reply that sometimes a man is unable to make
use of that which is in him habitually, on account of some impediment: thus, on account of
sleep, a man is unable to use the habit of science. In like manner, through the deficiency
of his age, a child cannot use the habit of understanding of principles, or the natural law,
which is in him habitually.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 94, Art. 2]

Whether the Natural Law Contains Several Precepts, or Only One?

Objection 1: It would seem that the natural law contains, not several precepts, but one only.
For law is a kind of precept, as stated above (Q. 92, A. 2). If therefore there were many precepts
of the natural law, it would follow that there are also many natural laws.

Obj. 2: Further, the natural law is consequent to human nature. But human nature, as a whole,
is one; though, as to its parts, it is manifold. Therefore, either there is but one precept
of the law of nature, on account of the unity of nature as a whole; or there are many, by reason
of the number of parts of human nature. The result would be that even things relating to the
inclination of the concupiscible faculty belong to the natural law.

Obj. 3: Further, law is something pertaining to reason, as stated above (Q. 90, A. 1). Now
reason is but one in man. Therefore there is only one precept of the natural law.

On the contrary, The precepts of the natural law in man stand in relation to practical matters,
as the first principles to matters of demonstration. But there are several first indemonstrable
principles. Therefore there are also several precepts of the natural law.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 91, A. 3), the precepts of the natural law are to the practical
reason, what the first principles of demonstrations are to the speculative reason; because
both are self-evident principles. Now a thing is said to be self-evident in two ways: first,
in itself; secondly, in relation to us. Any proposition is said to be self-evident in itself,
if its predicate is contained in the notion of the subject: although, to one who knows not
the definition of the subject, it happens that such a proposition is not self-evident. For
instance, this proposition, "Man is a rational being," is, in its very nature, self-evident,
since who says "man," says "a rational being": and yet to one who knows not what a man is,
this proposition is not self-evident. Hence it is that, as Boethius says (De Hebdom.), certain
axioms or propositions are universally self-evident to all; and such are those propositions
whose terms are known to all, as, "Every whole is greater than its part," and, "Things equal
to one and the same are equal to one another." But some propositions are self-evident only
to the wise, who understand the meaning of the terms of such propositions: thus to one who
understands that an angel is not a body, it is self-evident that an angel is not circumscriptively
in a place: but this is not evident to the unlearned, for they cannot grasp it.

Now a certain order is to be found in those things that are apprehended universally. For that
which, before aught else, falls under apprehension, is being, the notion of which is included
in all things whatsoever a man apprehends. Wherefore the first indemonstrable principle is
that "the same thing cannot be affirmed and denied at the same time," which is based on the
notion of being and not-being: and on this principle all others are based, as is stated in
Metaph. iv, text. 9. Now as being is the first thing that falls under the apprehension simply,
so good is the first thing that falls under the apprehension of the practical reason, which
is directed to action: since every agent acts for an end under the aspect of good. Consequently
the first principle of practical reason is one founded on the notion of good, viz. that "good
is that which all things seek after." Hence this is the first precept of law, that "good is
to be done and pursued, and evil is to be avoided." All other precepts of the natural law are
based upon this: so that whatever the practical reason naturally apprehends as man's good (or
evil) belongs to the precepts of the natural law as something to be done or avoided.

Since, however, good has the nature of an end, and evil, the nature of a contrary, hence it
is that all those things to which man has a natural inclination, are naturally apprehended
by reason as being good, and consequently as objects of pursuit, and their contraries as evil,
and objects of avoidance. Wherefore according to the order of natural inclinations, is the
order of the precepts of the natural law. Because in man there is first of all an inclination
to good in accordance with the nature which he has in common with all substances: inasmuch
as every substance seeks the preservation of its own being, according to its nature: and by
reason of this inclination, whatever is a means of preserving human life, and of warding off
its obstacles, belongs to the natural law. Secondly, there is in man an inclination to things
that pertain to him more specially, according to that nature which he has in common with other
animals: and in virtue of this inclination, those things are said to belong to the natural
law, "which nature has taught to all animals" [*Pandect. Just. I, tit. i], such as sexual intercourse,
education of offspring and so forth. Thirdly, there is in man an inclination to good, according
to the nature of his reason, which nature is proper to him: thus man has a natural inclination
to know the truth about God, and to live in society: and in this respect, whatever pertains
to this inclination belongs to the natural law; for instance, to shun ignorance, to avoid offending
those among whom one has to live, and other such things regarding the above inclination.

Reply Obj. 1: All these precepts of the law of nature have the character of one natural law,
inasmuch as they flow from one first precept.

Reply Obj. 2: All the inclinations of any parts whatsoever of human nature, e.g. of the concupiscible
and irascible parts, in so far as they are ruled by reason, belong to the natural law, and
are reduced to one first precept, as stated above: so that the precepts of the natural law
are many in themselves, but are based on one common foundation.

Reply Obj. 3: Although reason is one in itself, yet it directs all things regarding man; so
that whatever can be ruled by reason, is contained under the law of reason.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 94, Art. 3]

Whether All Acts of Virtue Are Prescribed by the Natural Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that not all acts of virtue are prescribed by the natural law. Because,
as stated above (Q. 90, A. 2) it is essential to a law that it be ordained to the common good.
But some acts of virtue are ordained to the private good of the individual, as is evident especially
in regards to acts of temperance. Therefore not all acts of virtue are the subject of natural law.

Obj. 2: Further, every sin is opposed to some virtuous act. If therefore all acts of virtue
are prescribed by the natural law, it seems to follow that all sins are against nature: whereas
this applies to certain special sins.

Obj. 3: Further, those things which are according to nature are common to all. But acts of
virtue are not common to all: since a thing is virtuous in one, and vicious in another. Therefore
not all acts of virtue are prescribed by the natural law.

On the contrary, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii, 4) that "virtues are natural." Therefore
virtuous acts also are a subject of the natural law.

I answer that, We may speak of virtuous acts in two ways: first, under the aspect of virtuous;
secondly, as such and such acts considered in their proper species. If then we speak of acts
of virtue, considered as virtuous, thus all virtuous acts belong to the natural law. For it
has been stated (A. 2) that to the natural law belongs everything to which a man is inclined
according to his nature. Now each thing is inclined naturally to an operation that is suitable
to it according to its form: thus fire is inclined to give heat. Wherefore, since the rational
soul is the proper form of man, there is in every man a natural inclination to act according
to reason: and this is to act according to virtue. Consequently, considered thus, all acts
of virtue are prescribed by the natural law: since each one's reason naturally dictates to
him to act virtuously. But if we speak of virtuous acts, considered in themselves, i.e. in
their proper species, thus not all virtuous acts are prescribed by the natural law: for many
things are done virtuously, to which nature does not incline at first; but which, through the
inquiry of reason, have been found by men to be conducive to well-living.

Reply Obj. 1: Temperance is about the natural concupiscences of food, drink and sexual matters,
which are indeed ordained to the natural common good, just as other matters of law are ordained
to the moral common good.

Reply Obj. 2: By human nature we may mean either that which is proper to man--and in this sense
all sins, as being against reason, are also against nature, as Damascene states (De Fide Orth.
ii, 30): or we may mean that nature which is common to man and other animals; and in this sense,
certain special sins are said to be against nature; thus contrary to sexual intercourse, which
is natural to all animals, is unisexual lust, which has received the special name of the unnatural
crime.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument considers acts in themselves. For it is owing to the various conditions
of men, that certain acts are virtuous for some, as being proportionate and becoming to them,
while they are vicious for others, as being out of proportion to them.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 94, Art. 4]

Whether the Natural Law Is the Same in All Men?

Objection 1: It would seem that the natural law is not the same in all. For it is stated in
the Decretals (Dist. i) that "the natural law is that which is contained in the Law and the
Gospel." But this is not common to all men; because, as it is written (Rom. 10:16), "all do
not obey the gospel." Therefore the natural law is not the same in all men.

Obj. 2: Further, "Things which are according to the law are said to be just," as stated in
Ethic. v. But it is stated in the same book that nothing is so universally just as not to be
subject to change in regard to some men. Therefore even the natural law is not the same in all men.

Obj. 3: Further, as stated above (AA. 2, 3), to the natural law belongs everything to which
a man is inclined according to his nature. Now different men are naturally inclined to different
things; some to the desire of pleasures, others to the desire of honors, and other men to other
things. Therefore there is not one natural law for all.

On the contrary, Isidore says (Etym. v, 4): "The natural law is common to all nations."

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 2, 3), to the natural law belong those things to which
a man is inclined naturally: and among these it is proper to man to be inclined to act according
to reason. Now the process of reason is from the common to the proper, as stated in Phys. i.
The speculative reason, however, is differently situated in this matter, from the practical
reason. For, since the speculative reason is busied chiefly with necessary things, which cannot
be otherwise than they are, its proper conclusions, like the universal principles, contain
the truth without fail. The practical reason, on the other hand, is busied with contingent
matters, about which human actions are concerned: and consequently, although there is necessity
in the general principles, the more we descend to matters of detail, the more frequently we
encounter defects. Accordingly then in speculative matters truth is the same in all men, both
as to principles and as to conclusions: although the truth is not known to all as regards the
conclusions, but only as regards the principles which are called common notions. But in matters
of action, truth or practical rectitude is not the same for all, as to matters of detail, but
only as to the general principles: and where there is the same rectitude in matters of detail,
it is not equally known to all.

It is therefore evident that, as regards the general principles whether of speculative or of
practical reason, truth or rectitude is the same for all, and is equally known by all. As to
the proper conclusions of the speculative reason, the truth is the same for all, but is not
equally known to all: thus it is true for all that the three angles of a triangle are together
equal to two right angles, although it is not known to all. But as to the proper conclusions
of the practical reason, neither is the truth or rectitude the same for all, nor, where it
is the same, is it equally known by all. Thus it is right and true for all to act according
to reason: and from this principle it follows as a proper conclusion, that goods entrusted
to another should be restored to their owner. Now this is true for the majority of cases: but
it may happen in a particular case that it would be injurious, and therefore unreasonable,
to restore goods held in trust; for instance, if they are claimed for the purpose of fighting
against one's country. And this principle will be found to fail the more, according as we descend
further into detail, e.g. if one were to say that goods held in trust should be restored with
such and such a guarantee, or in such and such a way; because the greater the number of conditions
added, the greater the number of ways in which the principle may fail, so that it be not right
to restore or not to restore.

Consequently we must say that the natural law, as to general principles, is the same for all,
both as to rectitude and as to knowledge. But as to certain matters of detail, which are conclusions,
as it were, of those general principles, it is the same for all in the majority of cases, both
as to rectitude and as to knowledge; and yet in some few cases it may fail, both as to rectitude,
by reason of certain obstacles (just as natures subject to generation and corruption fail in
some few cases on account of some obstacle), and as to knowledge, since in some the reason
is perverted by passion, or evil habit, or an evil disposition of nature; thus formerly, theft,
although it is expressly contrary to the natural law, was not considered wrong among the Germans,
as Julius Caesar relates (De Bello Gall. vi).

Reply Obj. 1: The meaning of the sentence quoted is not that whatever is contained in the Law
and the Gospel belongs to the natural law, since they contain many things that are above nature;
but that whatever belongs to the natural law is fully contained in them. Wherefore Gratian,
after saying that "the natural law is what is contained in the Law and the Gospel," adds at
once, by way of example, "by which everyone is commanded to do to others as he would be done by."

Reply Obj. 2: The saying of the Philosopher is to be understood of things that are naturally
just, not as general principles, but as conclusions drawn from them, having rectitude in the
majority of cases, but failing in a few.

Reply Obj. 3: As, in man, reason rules and commands the other powers, so all the natural inclinations
belonging to the other powers must needs be directed according to reason. Wherefore it is universally
right for all men, that all their inclinations should be directed according to reason.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 94, Art. 5]

Whether the Natural Law Can Be Changed?

Objection 1: It would seem that the natural law can be changed. Because on Ecclus. 17:9, "He
gave them instructions, and the law of life," the gloss says: "He wished the law of the letter
to be written, in order to correct the law of nature." But that which is corrected is changed.
Therefore the natural law can be changed.

Obj. 2: Further, the slaying of the innocent, adultery, and theft are against the natural law.
But we find these things changed by God: as when God commanded Abraham to slay his innocent
son (Gen. 22:2); and when he ordered the Jews to borrow and purloin the vessels of the Egyptians
(Ex. 12:35); and when He commanded Osee to take to himself "a wife of fornications" (Osee 1:2).
Therefore the natural law can be changed.

Obj. 3: Further, Isidore says (Etym. 5:4) that "the possession of all things in common, and
universal freedom, are matters of natural law." But these things are seen to be changed by
human laws. Therefore it seems that the natural law is subject to change.

On the contrary, It is said in the Decretals (Dist. v): "The natural law dates from the creation
of the rational creature. It does not vary according to time, but remains unchangeable."

I answer that, A change in the natural law may be understood in two ways. First, by way of
addition. In this sense nothing hinders the natural law from being changed: since many things
for the benefit of human life have been added over and above the natural law, both by the Divine
law and by human laws.

Secondly, a change in the natural law may be understood by way of subtraction, so that what
previously was according to the natural law, ceases to be so. In this sense, the natural law
is altogether unchangeable in its first principles: but in its secondary principles, which,
as we have said (A. 4), are certain detailed proximate conclusions drawn from the first principles,
the natural law is not changed so that what it prescribes be not right in most cases. But it
may be changed in some particular cases of rare occurrence, through some special causes hindering
the observance of such precepts, as stated above (A. 4).

Reply Obj. 1: The written law is said to be given for the correction of the natural law, either
because it supplies what was wanting to the natural law; or because the natural law was perverted
in the hearts of some men, as to certain matters, so that they esteemed those things good which
are naturally evil; which perversion stood in need of correction.

Reply Obj. 2: All men alike, both guilty and innocent, die the death of nature: which death
of nature is inflicted by the power of God on account of original sin, according to 1 Kings
2:6: "The Lord killeth and maketh alive." Consequently, by the command of God, death can be
inflicted on any man, guilty or innocent, without any injustice whatever. In like manner adultery
is intercourse with another's wife; who is allotted to him by the law emanating from God. Consequently
intercourse with any woman, by the command of God, is neither adultery nor fornication. The
same applies to theft, which is the taking of another's property. For whatever is taken by
the command of God, to Whom all things belong, is not taken against the will of its owner,
whereas it is in this that theft consists. Nor is it only in human things, that whatever is
commanded by God is right; but also in natural things, whatever is done by God, is, in some
way, natural, as stated in the First Part, Q. 105, A. 6, ad 1.

Reply Obj. 3: A thing is said to belong to the natural law in two ways. First, because nature
inclines thereto: e.g. that one should not do harm to another. Secondly, because nature did
not bring in the contrary: thus we might say that for man to be naked is of the natural law,
because nature did not give him clothes, but art invented them. In this sense, "the possession
of all things in common and universal freedom" are said to be of the natural law, because,
to wit, the distinction of possessions and slavery were not brought in by nature, but devised
by human reason for the benefit of human life. Accordingly the law of nature was not changed
in this respect, except by addition.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 94, Art. 6]

Whether the Law of Nature Can Be Abolished from the Heart of Man?

Objection 1: It would seem that the natural law can be abolished from the heart of man. Because
on Rom. 2:14, "When the Gentiles who have not the law," etc. a gloss says that "the law of
righteousness, which sin had blotted out, is graven on the heart of man when he is restored
by grace." But the law of righteousness is the law of nature. Therefore the law of nature can
be blotted out.

Obj. 2: Further, the law of grace is more efficacious than the law of nature. But the law of
grace is blotted out by sin. Much more therefore can the law of nature be blotted out.

Obj. 3: Further, that which is established by law is made just. But many things are enacted
by men, which are contrary to the law of nature. Therefore the law of nature can be abolished
from the heart of man.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Confess. ii): "Thy law is written in the hearts of men, which
iniquity itself effaces not." But the law which is written in men's hearts is the natural law.
Therefore the natural law cannot be blotted out.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 4, 5), there belong to the natural law, first, certain
most general precepts, that are known to all; and secondly, certain secondary and more detailed
precepts, which are, as it were, conclusions following closely from first principles. As to
those general principles, the natural law, in the abstract, can nowise be blotted out from
men's hearts. But it is blotted out in the case of a particular action, in so far as reason
is hindered from applying the general principle to a particular point of practice, on account
of concupiscence or some other passion, as stated above (Q. 77, A. 2). But as to the other,
i.e. the secondary precepts, the natural law can be blotted out from the human heart, either
by evil persuasions, just as in speculative matters errors occur in respect of necessary conclusions;
or by vicious customs and corrupt habits, as among some men, theft, and even unnatural vices,
as the Apostle states (Rom. i), were not esteemed sinful.

Reply Obj. 1: Sin blots out the law of nature in particular cases, not universally, except
perchance in regard to the secondary precepts of the natural law, in the way stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: Although grace is more efficacious than nature, yet nature is more essential
to man, and therefore more enduring.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument is true of the secondary precepts of the natural law, against which
some legislators have framed certain enactments which are unjust.

QUESTION 95

OF HUMAN LAW (In Four Articles)

We must now consider human law; and (1) this law considered in itself; (2) its power; (3) its
mutability. Under the first head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Its utility.

(2) Its origin.

(3) Its quality.

(4) Its division.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 95, Art. 1]

Whether It Was Useful for Laws to Be Framed by Men?

Objection 1: It would seem that it was not useful for laws to be framed by men. Because the
purpose of every law is that man be made good thereby, as stated above (Q. 92, A. 1). But men
are more to be induced to be good willingly by means of admonitions, than against their will,
by means of laws. Therefore there was no need to frame laws.

Obj. 2: Further, As the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 4), "men have recourse to a judge as to
animate justice." But animate justice is better than inanimate justice, which contained in
laws. Therefore it would have been better for the execution of justice to be entrusted to the
decision of judges, than to frame laws in addition.

Obj. 3: Further, every law is framed for the direction of human actions, as is evident from
what has been stated above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2). But since human actions are about singulars,
which are infinite in number, matter pertaining to the direction of human actions cannot be
taken into sufficient consideration except by a wise man, who looks into each one of them.
Therefore it would have been better for human acts to be directed by the judgment of wise men,
than by the framing of laws. Therefore there was no need of human laws.

On the contrary, Isidore says (Etym. v, 20): "Laws were made that in fear thereof human audacity
might be held in check, that innocence might be safeguarded in the midst of wickedness, and
that the dread of punishment might prevent the wicked from doing harm." But these things are
most necessary to mankind. Therefore it was necessary that human laws should be made.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 63, A. 1; Q. 94, A. 3), man has a natural aptitude for virtue;
but the perfection of virtue must be acquired by man by means of some kind of training. Thus
we observe that man is helped by industry in his necessities, for instance, in food and clothing.
Certain beginnings of these he has from nature, viz. his reason and his hands; but he has not
the full complement, as other animals have, to whom nature has given sufficiency of clothing
and food. Now it is difficult to see how man could suffice for himself in the matter of this
training: since the perfection of virtue consists chiefly in withdrawing man from undue pleasures,
to which above all man is inclined, and especially the young, who are more capable of being
trained. Consequently a man needs to receive this training from another, whereby to arrive
at the perfection of virtue. And as to those young people who are inclined to acts of virtue,
by their good natural disposition, or by custom, or rather by the gift of God, paternal training
suffices, which is by admonitions. But since some are found to be depraved, and prone to vice,
and not easily amenable to words, it was necessary for such to be restrained from evil by force
and fear, in order that, at least, they might desist from evil-doing, and leave others in peace,
and that they themselves, by being habituated in this way, might be brought to do willingly
what hitherto they did from fear, and thus become virtuous. Now this kind of training, which
compels through fear of punishment, is the discipline of laws. Therefore in order that man
might have peace and virtue, it was necessary for laws to be framed: for, as the Philosopher
says (Polit. i, 2), "as man is the most noble of animals if he be perfect in virtue, so is
he the lowest of all, if he be severed from law and righteousness"; because man can use his
reason to devise means of satisfying his lusts and evil passions, which other animals are unable
to do.

Reply Obj. 1: Men who are well disposed are led willingly to virtue by being admonished better
than by coercion: but men who are evilly disposed are not led to virtue unless they are compelled.

Reply Obj. 2: As the Philosopher says (Rhet. i, 1), "it is better that all things be regulated
by law, than left to be decided by judges": and this for three reasons. First, because it is
easier to find a few wise men competent to frame right laws, than to find the many who would
be necessary to judge aright of each single case. Secondly, because those who make laws consider
long beforehand what laws to make; whereas judgment on each single case has to be pronounced
as soon as it arises: and it is easier for man to see what is right, by taking many instances
into consideration, than by considering one solitary fact. Thirdly, because lawgivers judge
in the abstract and of future events; whereas those who sit in judgment judge of things present,
towards which they are affected by love, hatred, or some kind of cupidity; wherefore their
judgment is perverted.

Since then the animated justice of the judge is not found in every man, and since it can be
deflected, therefore it was necessary, whenever possible, for the law to determine how to judge,
and for very few matters to be left to the decision of men.

Reply Obj. 3: Certain individual facts which cannot be covered by the law "have necessarily
to be committed to judges," as the Philosopher says in the same passage: for instance, "concerning
something that has happened or not happened," and the like.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 95, Art. 2]

Whether Every Human Law Is Derived from the Natural Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that not every human law is derived from the natural law. For the
Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 7) that "the legal just is that which originally was a matter of
indifference." But those things which arise from the natural law are not matters of indifference.
Therefore the enactments of human laws are not derived from the natural law.

Obj. 2: Further, positive law is contrasted with natural law, as stated by Isidore (Etym. v,
4) and the Philosopher (Ethic. v, 7). But those things which flow as conclusions from the general
principles of the natural law belong to the natural law, as stated above (Q. 94, A. 4). Therefore
that which is established by human law does not belong to the natural law.

Obj. 3: Further, the law of nature is the same for all; since the Philosopher says (Ethic.
v, 7) that "the natural just is that which is equally valid everywhere." If therefore human
laws were derived from the natural law, it would follow that they too are the same for all:
which is clearly false.

Obj. 4: Further, it is possible to give a reason for things which are derived from the natural
law. But "it is not possible to give the reason for all the legal enactments of the lawgivers,"
as the jurist says [*Pandect. Justin. lib. i, ff, tit. iii, v; De Leg. et Senat.]. Therefore
not all human laws are derived from the natural law.

I answer that, As Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 5) "that which is not just seems to be no
law at all": wherefore the force of a law depends on the extent of its justice. Now in human
affairs a thing is said to be just, from being right, according to the rule of reason. But
the first rule of reason is the law of nature, as is clear from what has been stated above
(Q. 91, A. 2, ad 2). Consequently every human law has just so much of the nature of law, as
it is derived from the law of nature. But if in any point it deflects from the law of nature,
it is no longer a law but a perversion of law.

But it must be noted that something may be derived from the natural law in two ways: first,
as a conclusion from premises, secondly, by way of determination of certain generalities. The
first way is like to that by which, in sciences, demonstrated conclusions are drawn from the
principles: while the second mode is likened to that whereby, in the arts, general forms are
particularized as to details: thus the craftsman needs to determine the general form of a house
to some particular shape. Some things are therefore derived from the general principles of
the natural law, by way of conclusions; e.g. that "one must not kill" may be derived as a conclusion
from the principle that "one should do harm to no man": while some are derived therefrom by
way of determination; e.g. the law of nature has it that the evil-doer should be punished;
but that he be punished in this or that way, is a determination of the law of nature.

Accordingly both modes of derivation are found in the human law. But those things which are
derived in the first way, are contained in human law not as emanating therefrom exclusively,
but have some force from the natural law also. But those things which are derived in the second
way, have no other force than that of human law.

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher is speaking of those enactments which are by way of determination
or specification of the precepts of the natural law.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument avails for those things that are derived from the natural law,
by way of conclusions.

Reply Obj. 3: The general principles of the natural law cannot be applied to all men in the
same way on account of the great variety of human affairs: and hence arises the diversity of
positive laws among various people.

Reply Obj. 4: These words of the Jurist are to be understood as referring to decisions of rulers
in determining particular points of the natural law: on which determinations the judgment of
expert and prudent men is based as on its principles; in so far, to wit, as they see at once
what is the best thing to decide.

Hence the Philosopher says (Ethic. vi, 11) that in such matters, "we ought to pay as much attention
to the undemonstrated sayings and opinions of persons who surpass us in experience, age and
prudence, as to their demonstrations."

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 95, Art. 3]

Whether Isidore's Description of the Quality of Positive Law Is Appropriate?

Objection 1: It would seem that Isidore's description of the quality of positive law is not
appropriate, when he says (Etym. v, 21): "Law shall be virtuous, just, possible to nature,
according to the custom of the country, suitable to place and time, necessary, useful; clearly
expressed, lest by its obscurity it lead to misunderstanding; framed for no private benefit,
but for the common good." Because he had previously expressed the quality of law in three conditions,
saying that "law is anything founded on reason, provided that it foster religion, be helpful
to discipline, and further the common weal." Therefore it was needless to add any further conditions
to these.

Obj. 2: Further, Justice is included in honesty, as Tully says (De Offic. vii). Therefore after
saying "honest" it was superfluous to add "just."

Obj. 3: Further, written law is condivided with custom, according to Isidore (Etym. ii, 10).
Therefore it should not be stated in the definition of law that it is "according to the custom
of the country."

Obj. 4: Further, a thing may be necessary in two ways. It may be necessary simply, because
it cannot be otherwise: and that which is necessary in this way, is not subject to human judgment,
wherefore human law is not concerned with necessity of this kind. Again a thing may be necessary
for an end: and this necessity is the same as usefulness. Therefore it is superfluous to say
both "necessary" and "useful."

On the contrary, stands the authority of Isidore.

I answer that, Whenever a thing is for an end, its form must be determined proportionately
to that end; as the form of a saw is such as to be suitable for cutting (Phys. ii, text. 88).
Again, everything that is ruled and measured must have a form proportionate to its rule and
measure. Now both these conditions are verified of human law: since it is both something ordained
to an end; and is a rule or measure ruled or measured by a higher measure. And this higher
measure is twofold, viz. the Divine law and the natural law, as explained above (A. 2; Q. 93,
A. 3). Now the end of human law is to be useful to man, as the Jurist states [*Pandect. Justin.
lib. xxv, ff., tit. iii; De Leg. et Senat.]. Wherefore Isidore in determining the nature of
law, lays down, at first, three conditions; viz. that it "foster religion," inasmuch as it
is proportionate to the Divine law; that it be "helpful to discipline," inasmuch as it is proportionate
to the nature law; and that it "further the common weal," inasmuch as it is proportionate to
the utility of mankind.

All the other conditions mentioned by him are reduced to these three. For it is called virtuous
because it fosters religion. And when he goes on to say that it should be "just, possible to
nature, according to the customs of the country, adapted to place and time," he implies that
it should be helpful to discipline. For human discipline depends first on the order of reason,
to which he refers by saying "just": secondly, it depends on the ability of the agent; because
discipline should be adapted to each one according to his ability, taking also into account
the ability of nature (for the same burdens should not be laid on children as adults); and
should be according to human customs; since man cannot live alone in society, paying no heed
to others: thirdly, it depends on certain circumstances, in respect of which he says, "adapted
to place and time." The remaining words, "necessary, useful," etc. mean that law should further
the common weal: so that "necessity" refers to the removal of evils; "usefulness" to the attainment
of good; "clearness of expression," to the need of preventing any harm ensuing from the law
itself. And since, as stated above (Q. 90, A. 2), law is ordained to the common good, this
is expressed in the last part of the description.

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 95, Art. 4]

Whether Isidore's Division of Human Laws Is Appropriate?

Objection 1: It would seem that Isidore wrongly divided human statutes or human law (Etym.
v, 4, seqq.). For under this law he includes the "law of nations," so called, because, as he
says, "nearly all nations use it." But as he says, "natural law is that which is common to
all nations." Therefore the law of nations is not contained under positive human law, but rather
under natural law.

Obj. 2: Further, those laws which have the same force, seem to differ not formally but only
materially. But "statutes, decrees of the commonalty, senatorial decrees," and the like which
he mentions (Etym. v, 9), all have the same force. Therefore they do not differ, except materially.
But art takes no notice of such a distinction: since it may go on to infinity. Therefore this
division of human laws is not appropriate.

Obj. 3: Further, just as, in the state, there are princes, priests and soldiers, so are there
other human offices. Therefore it seems that, as this division includes military law, and public
law, referring to priests and magistrates; so also it should include other laws pertaining
to other offices of the state.

Obj. 4: Further, those things that are accidental should be passed over. But it is accidental
to law that it be framed by this or that man. Therefore it is unreasonable to divide laws according
to the names of lawgivers, so that one be called the "Cornelian" law, another the "Falcidian"
law, etc.

On the contrary, The authority of Isidore (Obj. 1) suffices.

I answer that, A thing can of itself be divided in respect of something contained in the notion
of that thing. Thus a soul either rational or irrational is contained in the notion of animal:
and therefore animal is divided properly and of itself in respect of its being rational or
irrational; but not in the point of its being white or black, which are entirely beside the
notion of animal. Now, in the notion of human law, many things are contained, in respect of
any of which human law can be divided properly and of itself. For in the first place it belongs
to the notion of human law, to be derived from the law of nature, as explained above (A. 2).
In this respect positive law is divided into the law of nations and civil law, according to
the two ways in which something may be derived from the law of nature, as stated above (A.
2). Because, to the law of nations belong those things which are derived from the law of nature,
as conclusions from premises, e.g. just buyings and sellings, and the like, without which men
cannot live together, which is a point of the law of nature, since man is by nature a social
animal, as is proved in Polit. i, 2. But those things which are derived from the law of nature
by way of particular determination, belong to the civil law, according as each state decides
on what is best for itself.

Secondly, it belongs to the notion of human law, to be ordained to the common good of the state.
In this respect human law may be divided according to the different kinds of men who work in
a special way for the common good: e.g. priests, by praying to God for the people; princes,
by governing the people; soldiers, by fighting for the safety of the people. Wherefore certain
special kinds of law are adapted to these men.

Thirdly, it belongs to the notion of human law, to be framed by that one who governs the community
of the state, as shown above (Q. 90, A. 3). In this respect, there are various human laws according
to the various forms of government. Of these, according to the Philosopher (Polit. iii, 10)
one is monarchy, i.e. when the state is governed by one; and then we have Royal Ordinances.
Another form is aristocracy, i.e. government by the best men or men of highest rank; and then
we have the Authoritative legal opinions (Responsa Prudentum) and Decrees of the Senate (Senatus
consulta). Another form is oligarchy, i.e. government by a few rich and powerful men; and then
we have Praetorian, also called Honorary, law. Another form of government is that of the people,
which is called democracy, and there we have Decrees of the commonalty (Plebiscita). There
is also tyrannical government, which is altogether corrupt, which, therefore, has no corresponding
law. Finally, there is a form of government made up of all these, and which is the best: and
in this respect we have law sanctioned by the Lords and Commons, as stated by Isidore (Etym.
v, 4, seqq.).

Fourthly, it belongs to the notion of human law to direct human actions. In this respect, according
to the various matters of which the law treats, there are various kinds of laws, which are
sometimes named after their authors: thus we have the Lex Julia about adultery, the Lex Cornelia
concerning assassins, and so on, differentiated in this way, not on account of the authors,
but on account of the matters to which they refer.

Reply Obj. 1: The law of nations is indeed, in some way, natural to man, in so far as he is
a reasonable being, because it is derived from the natural law by way of a conclusion that
is not very remote from its premises. Wherefore men easily agreed thereto. Nevertheless it
is distinct from the natural law, especially it is distinct from the natural law which is common
to all animals.

The Replies to the other Objections are evident from what has been said.

QUESTION 96

OF THE POWER OF HUMAN LAW (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the power of human law. Under this head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether human law should be framed for the community?

(2) Whether human law should repress all vices?

(3) Whether human law is competent to direct all acts of virtue?

(4) Whether it binds man in conscience?

(5) Whether all men are subject to human law?

(6) Whether those who are under the law may act beside the letter of the law?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 96, Art. 1]

Whether Human Law Should Be Framed for the Community Rather Than for the Individual?

Objection 1: It would seem that human law should be framed not for the community, but rather
for the individual. For the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 7) that "the legal just . . . includes
all particular acts of legislation . . . and all those matters which are the subject of decrees,"
which are also individual matters, since decrees are framed about individual actions. Therefore
law is framed not only for the community, but also for the individual.

Obj. 2: Further, law is the director of human acts, as stated above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2). But
human acts are about individual matters. Therefore human laws should be framed, not for the
community, but rather for the individual.

Obj. 3: Further, law is a rule and measure of human acts, as stated above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2).
But a measure should be most certain, as stated in Metaph. x. Since therefore in human acts
no general proposition can be so certain as not to fail in some individual cases, it seems
that laws should be framed not in general but for individual cases.

On the contrary, The Jurist says (Pandect. Justin. lib. i, tit. iii, art. ii; De legibus, etc.)
that "laws should be made to suit the majority of instances; and they are not framed according
to what may possibly happen in an individual case."

I answer that, Whatever is for an end should be proportionate to that end. Now the end of law
is the common good; because, as Isidore says (Etym. v, 21) that "law should be framed, not
for any private benefit, but for the common good of all the citizens." Hence human laws should
be proportionate to the common good. Now the common good comprises many things. Wherefore law
should take account of many things, as to persons, as to matters, and as to times. Because
the community of the state is composed of many persons; and its good is procured by many actions;
nor is it established to endure for only a short time, but to last for all time by the citizens
succeeding one another, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei ii, 21; xxii, 6).

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher (Ethic. v, 7) divides the legal just, i.e. positive law, into
three parts. For some things are laid down simply in a general way: and these are the general
laws. Of these he says that "the legal is that which originally was a matter of indifference,
but which, when enacted, is so no longer": as the fixing of the ransom of a captive. Some things
affect the community in one respect, and individuals in another. These are called "privileges,"
i.e. "private laws," as it were, because they regard private persons, although their power
extends to many matters; and in regard to these, he adds, "and further, all particular acts
of legislation." Other matters are legal, not through being laws, but through being applications
of general laws to particular cases: such are decrees which have the force of law; and in regard
to these, he adds "all matters subject to decrees."

Reply Obj. 2: A principle of direction should be applicable to many; wherefore (Metaph. x,
text. 4) the Philosopher says that all things belonging to one genus, are measured by one,
which is the principle in that genus. For if there were as many rules or measures as there
are things measured or ruled, they would cease to be of use, since their use consists in being
applicable to many things. Hence law would be of no use, if it did not extend further than
to one single act. Because the decrees of prudent men are made for the purpose of directing
individual actions; whereas law is a general precept, as stated above (Q. 92, A. 2, Obj. 2).

Reply Obj. 3: "We must not seek the same degree of certainty in all things" (Ethic. i, 3).
Consequently in contingent matters, such as natural and human things, it is enough for a thing
to be certain, as being true in the greater number of instances, though at times and less frequently
it fail.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 96, Art. 2]

Whether It Belongs to the Human Law to Repress All Vices?

Objection 1: It would seem that it belongs to human law to repress all vices. For Isidore says
(Etym. v, 20) that "laws were made in order that, in fear thereof, man's audacity might be
held in check." But it would not be held in check sufficiently, unless all evils were repressed
by law. Therefore human laws should repress all evils.

Obj. 2: Further, the intention of the lawgiver is to make the citizens virtuous. But a man
cannot be virtuous unless he forbear from all kinds of vice. Therefore it belongs to human
law to repress all vices.

Obj. 3: Further, human law is derived from the natural law, as stated above (Q. 95, A. 2).
But all vices are contrary to the law of nature. Therefore human law should repress all vices.

On the contrary, We read in De Lib. Arb. i, 5: "It seems to me that the law which is written
for the governing of the people rightly permits these things, and that Divine providence punishes
them." But Divine providence punishes nothing but vices. Therefore human law rightly allows
some vices, by not repressing them.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2), law is framed as a rule or measure of human
acts. Now a measure should be homogeneous with that which it measures, as stated in Metaph.
x, text. 3, 4, since different things are measured by different measures. Wherefore laws imposed
on men should also be in keeping with their condition, for, as Isidore says (Etym. v, 21),
law should be "possible both according to nature, and according to the customs of the country."
Now possibility or faculty of action is due to an interior habit or disposition: since the
same thing is not possible to one who has not a virtuous habit, as is possible to one who has.
Thus the same is not possible to a child as to a full-grown man: for which reason the law for
children is not the same as for adults, since many things are permitted to children, which
in an adult are punished by law or at any rate are open to blame. In like manner many things
are permissible to men not perfect in virtue, which would be intolerable in a virtuous man.

Now human law is framed for a number of human beings, the majority of whom are not perfect
in virtue. Wherefore human laws do not forbid all vices, from which the virtuous abstain, but
only the more grievous vices, from which it is possible for the majority to abstain; and chiefly
those that are to the hurt of others, without the prohibition of which human society could
not be maintained: thus human law prohibits murder, theft and such like.

Reply Obj. 1: Audacity seems to refer to the assailing of others. Consequently it belongs to
those sins chiefly whereby one's neighbor is injured: and these sins are forbidden by human
law, as stated.

Reply Obj. 2: The purpose of human law is to lead men to virtue, not suddenly, but gradually.
Wherefore it does not lay upon the multitude of imperfect men the burdens of those who are
already virtuous, viz. that they should abstain from all evil. Otherwise these imperfect ones,
being unable to bear such precepts, would break out into yet greater evils: thus it is written
(Ps. 30:33): "He that violently bloweth his nose, bringeth out blood"; and (Matt. 9:17) that
if "new wine," i.e. precepts of a perfect life, "is put into old bottles," i.e. into imperfect
men, "the bottles break, and the wine runneth out," i.e. the precepts are despised, and those
men, from contempt, break into evils worse still.

Reply Obj. 3: The natural law is a participation in us of the eternal law: while human law
falls short of the eternal law. Now Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 5): "The law which is framed
for the government of states, allows and leaves unpunished many things that are punished by
Divine providence. Nor, if this law does not attempt to do everything, is this a reason why
it should be blamed for what it does." Wherefore, too, human law does not prohibit everything
that is forbidden by the natural law.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 96, Art. 3]

Whether Human Law Prescribes Acts of All the Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that human law does not prescribe acts of all the virtues. For vicious
acts are contrary to acts of virtue. But human law does not prohibit all vices, as stated above
(A. 2). Therefore neither does it prescribe all acts of virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, a virtuous act proceeds from a virtue. But virtue is the end of law; so that
whatever is from a virtue, cannot come under a precept of law. Therefore human law does not
prescribe all acts of virtue. But some acts of virtue are ordained, not to the common good,
but to private good. Therefore the law does not prescribe all acts of virtue.

On the contrary, The Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 1) that the law "prescribes the performance
of the acts of a brave man . . . and the acts of the temperate man . . . and the acts of the
meek man: and in like manner as regards the other virtues and vices, prescribing the former,
forbidding the latter."

I answer that, The species of virtues are distinguished by their objects, as explained above
(Q. 54, A. 2; Q. 60, A. 1; Q. 62, A. 2). Now all the objects of virtues can be referred either
to the private good of an individual, or to the common good of the multitude: thus matters
of fortitude may be achieved either for the safety of the state, or for upholding the rights
of a friend, and in like manner with the other virtues. But law, as stated above (Q. 90, A.
2) is ordained to the common good. Wherefore there is no virtue whose acts cannot be prescribed
by the law. Nevertheless human law does not prescribe concerning all the acts of every virtue:
but only in regard to those that are ordainable to the common good--either immediately, as
when certain things are done directly for the common good--or mediately, as when a lawgiver
prescribes certain things pertaining to good order, whereby the citizens are directed in the
upholding of the common good of justice and peace.

Reply Obj. 1: Human law does not forbid all vicious acts, by the obligation of a precept, as
neither does it prescribe all acts of virtue. But it forbids certain acts of each vice, just
as it prescribes some acts of each virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: An act is said to be an act of virtue in two ways. First, from the fact that
a man does something virtuous; thus the act of justice is to do what is right, and an act of
fortitude is to do brave things: and in this way law prescribes certain acts of virtue. Secondly
an act of virtue is when a man does a virtuous thing in a way in which a virtuous man does
it. Such an act always proceeds from virtue: and it does not come under a precept of law, but
is the end at which every lawgiver aims.

Reply Obj. 3: There is no virtue whose act is not ordainable to the common good, as stated
above, either mediately or immediately.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 96, Art. 4]

Whether Human Law Binds a Man in Conscience?

Objection 1: It would seem that human law does not bind man in conscience. For an inferior
power has no jurisdiction in a court of higher power. But the power of man, which frames human
law, is beneath the Divine power. Therefore human law cannot impose its precept in a Divine
court, such as is the court of conscience.

Obj. 2: Further, the judgment of conscience depends chiefly on the commandments of God. But
sometimes God's commandments are made void by human laws, according to Matt. 15:6: "You have
made void the commandment of God for your tradition." Therefore human law does not bind a man
in conscience.

Obj. 3: Further, human laws often bring loss of character and injury on man, according to Isa.
10:1 et seqq.: "Woe to them that make wicked laws, and when they write, write injustice; to
oppress the poor in judgment, and do violence to the cause of the humble of My people." But
it is lawful for anyone to avoid oppression and violence. Therefore human laws do not bind
man in conscience.

On the contrary, It is written (1 Pet. 2:19): "This is thankworthy, if for conscience . . .
a man endure sorrows, suffering wrongfully."

I answer that, Laws framed by man are either just or unjust. Now laws are said to be just,
both from the end, when, to wit, they are ordained to the common good--and from their author,
that is to say, when the law that is made does not exceed the power of the lawgiver--and from
their form, when, to wit, burdens are laid on the subjects, according to an equality of proportion
and with a view to the common good. For, since one man is a part of the community, each man
in all that he is and has, belongs to the community; just as a part, in all that it is, belongs
to the whole; wherefore nature inflicts a loss on the part, in order to save the whole: so
that on this account, such laws as these, which impose proportionate burdens, are just and
binding in conscience, and are legal laws.

On the other hand laws may be unjust in two ways: first, by being contrary to human good, through
being opposed to the things mentioned above--either in respect of the end, as when an authority
imposes on his subjects burdensome laws, conducive, not to the common good, but rather to his
own cupidity or vainglory--or in respect of the author, as when a man makes a law that goes
beyond the power committed to him--or in respect of the form, as when burdens are imposed unequally
on the community, although with a view to the common good. The like are acts of violence rather
than laws; because, as Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 5), "a law that is not just, seems to
be no law at all." Wherefore such laws do not bind in conscience, except perhaps in order to
avoid scandal or disturbance, for which cause a man should even yield his right, according
to Matt. 5:40, 41: "If a man . . . take away thy coat, let go thy cloak also unto him; and
whosoever will force thee one mile, go with him other two."

Secondly, laws may be unjust through being opposed to the Divine good: such are the laws of
tyrants inducing to idolatry, or to anything else contrary to the Divine law: and laws of this
kind must nowise be observed, because, as stated in Acts 5:29, "we ought to obey God rather
than man."

Reply Obj. 1: As the Apostle says (Rom. 13:1, 2), all human power is from God . . . "therefore
he that resisteth the power," in matters that are within its scope, "resisteth the ordinance
of God"; so that he becomes guilty according to his conscience.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument is true of laws that are contrary to the commandments of God, which
is beyond the scope of (human) power. Wherefore in such matters human law should not be obeyed.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument is true of a law that inflicts unjust hurt on its subjects. The
power that man holds from God does not extend to this: wherefore neither in such matters is
man bound to obey the law, provided he avoid giving scandal or inflicting a more grievous hurt.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 96, Art. 5]

Whether All Are Subject to the Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that not all are subject to the law. For those alone are subject
to a law for whom a law is made. But the Apostle says (1 Tim. 1:9): "The law is not made for
the just man." Therefore the just are not subject to the law.

Obj. 2: Further, Pope Urban says [*Decretals. caus. xix, qu. 2]: "He that is guided by a private
law need not for any reason be bound by the public law." Therefore not all men are subject
to human law.

Obj. 3: Further, the jurist says [*Pandect. Justin. i, ff., tit. 3, De Leg. et Senat.] that
"the sovereign is exempt from the laws." But he that is exempt from the law is not bound thereby.
Therefore not all are subject to the law. But subjection to a power seems to imply subjection
to the laws framed by that power. Therefore all men should be subject to human law.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, AA. 1, 2; A. 3, ad 2), the notion of law contains two
things: first, that it is a rule of human acts; secondly, that it has coercive power. Wherefore
a man may be subject to law in two ways. First, as the regulated is subject to the regulator:
and, in this way, whoever is subject to a power, is subject to the law framed by that power.
But it may happen in two ways that one is not subject to a power. In one way, by being altogether
free from its authority: hence the subjects of one city or kingdom are not bound by the laws
of the sovereign of another city or kingdom, since they are not subject to his authority. In
another way, by being under a yet higher law; thus the subject of a proconsul should be ruled
by his command, but not in those matters in which the subject receives his orders from the
emperor: for in these matters, he is not bound by the mandate of the lower authority, since
he is directed by that of a higher. In this way, one who is simply subject to a law, may not
be subject thereto in certain matters, in respect of which he is ruled by a higher law.

Secondly, a man is said to be subject to a law as the coerced is subject to the coercer. In
this way the virtuous and righteous are not subject to the law, but only the wicked. Because
coercion and violence are contrary to the will: but the will of the good is in harmony with
the law, whereas the will of the wicked is discordant from it. Wherefore in this sense the
good are not subject to the law, but only the wicked.

Reply Obj. 2:14, 15). Consequently the law does not enforce itself upon them as it does on
the wicked.

Reply Obj. 2: The law of the Holy Ghost is above all law framed by man: and therefore spiritual
men, in so far as they are led by the law of the Holy Ghost, are not subject to the law in
those matters that are inconsistent with the guidance of the Holy Ghost.

Reply Obj. 3: The sovereign is said to be "exempt from the law," as to its coercive power;
since, properly speaking, no man is coerced by himself, and law has no coercive power save
from the authority of the sovereign. Thus then is the sovereign said to be exempt from the
law, because none is competent to pass sentence on him, if he acts against the law. Wherefore
on Ps. 50:6: "To Thee only have I sinned," a gloss says that "there is no man who can judge
the deeds of a king." But as to the directive force of law, the sovereign is subject to the
law by his own will, according to the statement (Extra, De Constit. cap. Cum omnes) that "whatever
law a man makes for another, he should keep himself. And a wise authority [*Dionysius Cato,
Dist. de Moribus] says: 'Obey the law that thou makest thyself.'" Moreover the Lord reproaches
those who "say and do not"; and who "bind heavy burdens and lay them on men's shoulders, but
with a finger of their own they will not move them" (Matt. 23:3, 4). Hence, in the judgment
of God, the sovereign is not exempt from the law, as to its directive force; but he should
fulfil it to his own free-will and not of constraint. Again the sovereign is above the law,
in so far as, when it is expedient, he can change the law, and dispense in it according to
time and place.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 96, Art. 6]

Whether He Who Is Under a Law May Act Beside the Letter of the Law?

Objection 1: It seems that he who is subject to a law may not act beside the letter of the
law. For Augustine says (De Vera Relig. 31): "Although men judge about temporal laws when they
make them, yet when once they are made they must pass judgment not on them, but according to
them." But if anyone disregard the letter of the law, saying that he observes the intention
of the lawgiver, he seems to pass judgment on the law. Therefore it is not right for one who
is under the law to disregard the letter of the law, in order to observe the intention of the
lawgiver.

Obj. 2: Further, he alone is competent to interpret the law who can make the law. But those
who are subject to the law cannot make the law. Therefore they have no right to interpret the
intention of the lawgiver, but should always act according to the letter of the law.

Obj. 3: Further, every wise man knows how to explain his intention by words. Therefore we should
not judge of the intention of the lawgiver otherwise than by the words of the law.

On the contrary, Hilary says (De Trin. iv): "The meaning of what is said is according to the
motive for saying it: because things are not subject to speech, but speech to things." Therefore
we should take account of the motive of the lawgiver, rather than of his very words.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 4), every law is directed to the common weal of men, and
derives the force and nature of law accordingly. Hence the jurist says [*Pandect. Justin. lib.
i, ff., tit. Now it happens often that the observance of some point of law conduces to the
common weal in the majority of instances, and yet, in some cases, is very hurtful. Since then
the lawgiver cannot have in view every single case, he shapes the law according to what happens
most frequently, by directing his attention to the common good. Wherefore if a case arise wherein
the observance of that law would be hurtful to the general welfare, it should not be observed.
For instance, suppose that in a besieged city it be an established law that the gates of the
city are to be kept closed, this is good for public welfare as a general rule: but, it were
to happen that the enemy are in pursuit of certain citizens, who are defenders of the city,
it would be a great loss to the city, if the gates were not opened to them: and so in that
case the gates ought to be opened, contrary to the letter of the law, in order to maintain
the common weal, which the lawgiver had in view.

Nevertheless it must be noted, that if the observance of the law according to the letter does
not involve any sudden risk needing instant remedy, it is not competent for everyone to expound
what is useful and what is not useful to the state: those alone can do this who are in authority,
and who, on account of such like cases, have the power to dispense from the laws. If, however,
the peril be so sudden as not to allow of the delay involved by referring the matter to authority,
the mere necessity brings with it a dispensation, since necessity knows no law.

Reply Obj. 1: He who in a case of necessity acts beside the letter of the law, does not judge
the law; but of a particular case in which he sees that the letter of the law is not to be
observed.

Reply Obj. 2: He who follows the intention of the lawgiver, does not interpret the law simply;
but in a case in which it is evident, by reason of the manifest harm, that the lawgiver intended
otherwise. For if it be a matter of doubt, he must either act according to the letter of the
law, or consult those in power.

Reply Obj. 3: No man is so wise as to be able to take account of every single case; wherefore
he is not able sufficiently to express in words all those things that are suitable for the
end he has in view. And even if a lawgiver were able to take all the cases into consideration,
he ought not to mention them all, in order to avoid confusion: but should frame the law according
to that which is of most common occurrence.

QUESTION 97

OF CHANGE IN LAWS (In Four Articles)

We must now consider change in laws: under which head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether human law is changeable?

(2) Whether it should be always changed, whenever anything better occurs?

(3) Whether it is abolished by custom, and whether custom obtains the force of law?

(4) Whether the application of human law should be changed by dispensation of those in authority?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 97, Art. 1]

Whether Human Law Should Be Changed in Any Way?

Objection 1: It would seem that human law should not be changed in any way at all. But the
natural law endures unchangeably. Therefore human law should also remain without any change.

Obj. 2: Further, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 5), a measure should be absolutely stable.
Therefore it should remain without change.

Obj. 3: Further, it is of the essence of law to be just and right, as stated above (Q. 95,
A. 2). But that which is right once is right always. Therefore that which is law once, should
be always law.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Lib. Arb. i, 6): "A temporal law, however just, may be
justly changed in course of time."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 91, A. 3), human law is a dictate of reason, whereby human
acts are directed. Thus there may be two causes for the just change of human law: one on the
part of reason; the other on the part of man whose acts are regulated by law. The cause on
the part of reason is that it seems natural to human reason to advance gradually from the imperfect
to the perfect. Hence, in speculative sciences, we see that the teaching of the early philosophers
was imperfect, and that it was afterwards perfected by those who succeeded them. So also in
practical matters: for those who first endeavored to discover something useful for the human
community, not being able by themselves to take everything into consideration, set up certain
institutions which were deficient in many ways; and these were changed by subsequent lawgivers
who made institutions that might prove less frequently deficient in respect of the common weal.

On the part of man, whose acts are regulated by law, the law can be rightly changed on account
of the changed condition of man, to whom different things are expedient according to the difference
of his condition. An example is proposed by Augustine (De Lib. Arb. i, 6): "If the people have
a sense of moderation and responsibility, and are most careful guardians of the common weal,
it is right to enact a law allowing such a people to choose their own magistrates for the government
of the commonwealth. But if, as time goes on, the same people become so corrupt as to sell
their votes, and entrust the government to scoundrels and criminals; then the right of appointing
their public officials is rightly forfeit to such a people, and the choice devolves to a few
good men."

Reply Obj. 1: The natural law is a participation of the eternal law, as stated above (Q. 91,
A. 2), and therefore endures without change, owing to the unchangeableness and perfection of
the Divine Reason, the Author of nature. But the reason of man is changeable and imperfect:
wherefore his law is subject to change. Moreover the natural law contains certain universal
precepts, which are everlasting: whereas human law contains certain particular precepts, according
to various emergencies.

Reply Obj. 2: A measure should be as enduring as possible. But nothing can be absolutely unchangeable
in things that are subject to change. And therefore human law cannot be altogether unchangeable.

Reply Obj. 3: In corporal things, right is predicated absolutely: and therefore, as far as
itself is concerned, always remains right. But right is predicated of law with reference to
the common weal, to which one and the same thing is not always adapted, as stated above: wherefore
rectitude of this kind is subject to change.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 97, Art. 2]

Whether Human Law Should Always Be Changed, Whenever Something Better Occurs?

Objection 1: It would seem that human law should be changed, whenever something better occurs.
Because human laws are devised by human reason, like other arts. But in the other arts, the
tenets of former times give place to others, if something better occurs. Therefore the same
should apply to human laws.

Obj. 2: Further, by taking note of the past we can provide for the future. Now unless human
laws had been changed when it was found possible to improve them, considerable inconvenience
would have ensued; because the laws of old were crude in many points. Therefore it seems that
laws should be changed, whenever anything better occurs to be enacted.

Obj. 3: Further, human laws are enacted about single acts of man. But we cannot acquire perfect
knowledge in singular matters, except by experience, which "requires time," as stated in Ethic.
ii. Therefore it seems that as time goes on it is possible for something better to occur for
legislation.

On the contrary, It is stated in the Decretals (Dist. xii, 5): "It is absurd, and a detestable
shame, that we should suffer those traditions to be changed which we have received from the
fathers of old."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), human law is rightly changed, in so far as such change
is conducive to the common weal. But, to a certain extent, the mere change of law is of itself
prejudicial to the common good: because custom avails much for the observance of laws, seeing
that what is done contrary to general custom, even in slight matters, is looked upon as grave.
Consequently, when a law is changed, the binding power of the law is diminished, in so far
as custom is abolished. Wherefore human law should never be changed, unless, in some way or
other, the common weal be compensated according to the extent of the harm done in this respect.
Such compensation may arise either from some very great and every evident benefit conferred
by the new enactment; or from the extreme urgency of the case, due to the fact that either
the existing law is clearly unjust, or its observance extremely harmful. Wherefore the Jurist
says [*Pandect. Justin. lib. i, ff., tit. 4, De Constit. Princip.] that "in establishing new
laws, there should be evidence of the benefit to be derived, before departing from a law which
has long been considered just."

Reply Obj. 1: Rules of art derive their force from reason alone: and therefore whenever something
better occurs, the rule followed hitherto should be changed. But "laws derive very great force
from custom," as the Philosopher states (Polit. ii, 5): consequently they should not be quickly
changed.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument proves that laws ought to be changed: not in view of any improvement,
but for the sake of a great benefit or in a case of great urgency, as stated above. This answer
applies also to the Third Objection.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 97, Art. 3]

Whether Custom Can Obtain Force of Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that custom cannot obtain force of law, nor abolish a law. Because
human law is derived from the natural law and from the Divine law, as stated above (Q. 93,
A. 3; Q. 95, A. 2). But human custom cannot change either the law of nature or the Divine law.
Therefore neither can it change human law.

Obj. 2: Further, many evils cannot make one good. But he who first acted against the law, did
evil. Therefore by multiplying such acts, nothing good is the result. Now a law is something
good; since it is a rule of human acts. Therefore law is not abolished by custom, so that the
mere custom should obtain force of law.

Obj. 3: Further, the framing of laws belongs to those public men whose business it is to govern
the community; wherefore private individuals cannot make laws. But custom grows by the acts
of private individuals. Therefore custom cannot obtain force of law, so as to abolish the law.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Ep. ad Casulan. xxxvi): "The customs of God's people and the
institutions of our ancestors are to be considered as laws. And those who throw contempt on
the customs of the Church ought to be punished as those who disobey the law of God."

I answer that, All law proceeds from the reason and will of the lawgiver; the Divine and natural
laws from the reasonable will of God; the human law from the will of man, regulated by reason.
Now just as human reason and will, in practical matters, may be made manifest by speech, so
may they be made known by deeds: since seemingly a man chooses as good that which he carries
into execution. But it is evident that by human speech, law can be both changed and expounded,
in so far as it manifests the interior movement and thought of human reason. Wherefore by actions
also, especially if they be repeated, so as to make a custom, law can be changed and expounded;
and also something can be established which obtains force of law, in so far as by repeated
external actions, the inward movement of the will, and concepts of reason are most effectually
declared; for when a thing is done again and again, it seems to proceed from a deliberate judgment
of reason. Accordingly, custom has the force of a law, abolishes law, and is the interpreter
of law.

Reply Obj. 1: The natural and Divine laws proceed from the Divine will, as stated above. Wherefore
they cannot be changed by a custom proceeding from the will of man, but only by Divine authority.
Hence it is that no custom can prevail over the Divine or natural laws: for Isidore says (Synon.
ii, 16): "Let custom yield to authority: evil customs should be eradicated by law and reason."

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 96, A. 6), human laws fail in some cases: wherefore it is
possible sometimes to act beside the law; namely, in a case where the law fails; yet the act
will not be evil. And when such cases are multiplied, by reason of some change in man, then
custom shows that the law is no longer useful: just as it might be declared by the verbal promulgation
of a law to the contrary. If, however, the same reason remains, for which the law was useful
hitherto, then it is not the custom that prevails against the law, but the law that overcomes
the custom: unless perhaps the sole reason for the law seeming useless, be that it is not "possible
according to the custom of the country" [*Q. 95, A. 3], which has been stated to be one of
the conditions of law. For it is not easy to set aside the custom of a whole people.

Reply Obj. 3: The people among whom a custom is introduced may be of two conditions. For if
they are free, and able to make their own laws, the consent of the whole people expressed by
a custom counts far more in favor of a particular observance, that does the authority of the
sovereign, who has not the power to frame laws, except as representing the people. Wherefore
although each individual cannot make laws, yet the whole people can. If however the people
have not the free power to make their own laws, or to abolish a law made by a higher authority;
nevertheless with such a people a prevailing custom obtains force of law, in so far as it is
tolerated by those to whom it belongs to make laws for that people: because by the very fact
that they tolerate it they seem to approve of that which is introduced by custom.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 97, Art. 4]

Whether the Rulers of the People Can Dispense from Human Laws?

Objection 1: It would seem that the rulers of the people cannot dispense from human laws. For
the law is established for the "common weal," as Isidore says (Etym. v, 21). But the common
good should not be set aside for the private convenience of an individual: because, as the
Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 2), "the good of the nation is more godlike than the good of one
man." Therefore it seems that a man should not be dispensed from acting in compliance with
the general law.

Obj. But to allow one man to do that which is equally forbidden to all, seems to be respect
of persons. Therefore the rulers of a community cannot grant such dispensations, since this
is against a precept of the Divine law.

Obj. 3: Further, human law, in order to be just, should accord with the natural and Divine
laws: else it would not "foster religion," nor be "helpful to discipline," which is requisite
to the nature of law, as laid down by Isidore (Etym. v, 3). But no man can dispense from the
Divine and natural laws. Neither, therefore, can he dispense from the human law.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (1 Cor. 9:17): "A dispensation is committed to me."

I answer that, Dispensation, properly speaking, denotes a measuring out to individuals of some
common goods: thus the head of a household is called a dispenser, because to each member of
the household he distributes work and necessaries of life in due weight and measure. Accordingly
in every community a man is said to dispense, from the very fact that he directs how some general
precept is to be fulfilled by each individual. Now it happens at times that a precept, which
is conducive to the common weal as a general rule, is not good for a particular individual,
or in some particular case, either because it would hinder some greater good, or because it
would be the occasion of some evil, as explained above (Q. 96, A. 6). But it would be dangerous
to leave this to the discretion of each individual, except perhaps by reason of an evident
and sudden emergency, as stated above (Q. 96, A. 6). Consequently he who is placed over a community
is empowered to dispense in a human law that rests upon his authority, so that, when the law
fails in its application to persons or circumstances, he may allow the precept of the law not
to be observed. If however he grant this permission without any such reason, and of his mere
will, he will be an unfaithful or an imprudent dispenser: unfaithful, if he has not the common
good in view; imprudent, if he ignores the reasons for granting dispensations. Hence Our Lord
says (Luke 12:42): "Who, thinkest thou, is the faithful and wise dispenser [Douay: steward],
whom his lord setteth over his family?"

Reply Obj. 1: When a person is dispensed from observing the general law, this should not be
done to the prejudice of, but with the intention of benefiting, the common good.

Reply Obj. 2: It is not respect of persons if unequal measures are served out to those who
are themselves unequal. Wherefore when the condition of any person requires that he should
reasonably receive special treatment, it is not respect of persons if he be the object of special
favor.

Reply Obj. 3: Natural law, so far as it contains general precepts, which never fail, does not
allow of dispensations. In other precepts, however, which are as conclusions of the general
precepts, man sometimes grants a dispensation: for instance, that a loan should not be paid
back to the betrayer of his country, or something similar. But to the Divine law each man stands
as a private person to the public law to which he is subject. Wherefore just as none can dispense
from public human law, except the man from whom the law derives its authority, or his delegate;
so, in the precepts of the Divine law, which are from God, none can dispense but God, or the
man to whom He may give special power for that purpose.

QUESTION 98

OF THE OLD LAW (In Six Articles)

In due sequence we must now consider the Old Law; and (1) The Law itself; (2) Its precepts.
Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the Old Law was good?

(2) Whether it was from God?

(3) Whether it came from Him through the angels?

(4) Whether it was given to all?

(5) Whether it was binding on all?

(6) Whether it was given at a suitable time?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 98, Art. 1]

Whether the Old Law Was Good?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law was not good. For it is written (Ezech. 20:25):
"I gave them statutes that were not good, and judgments in which they shall not live." But
a law is not said to be good except on account of the goodness of the precepts that it contains.
Therefore the Old Law was not good.

Obj. 2: Further, it belongs to the goodness of a law that it conduce to the common welfare,
as Isidore says (Etym. v, 3). But the Old Law was not salutary; rather was it deadly and hurtful.
For the Apostle says (Rom. 7:8, seqq.): "Without the law sin was dead. And I lived some time
without the law. But when the commandment came sin revived; and I died." Again he says (Rom.
5:20): "Law entered in that sin might abound." Therefore the Old Law was not good.

Obj. 3: Further, it belongs to the goodness of the law that it should be possible to obey it,
both according to nature, and according to human custom. But such the Old Law was not: since
Peter said (Acts 15:10): "Why tempt you (God) to put a yoke on the necks of the disciples,
which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?" Therefore it seems that the Old Law
was not good.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 7:12): "Wherefore the law indeed is holy, and the commandment
holy, and just, and good."

I answer that, Without any doubt, the Old Law was good. For just as a doctrine is shown to
be good by the fact that it accords with right reason, so is a law proved to be good if it
accords with reason. Now the Old Law was in accordance with reason. Because it repressed concupiscence
which is in conflict with reason, as evidenced by the commandment, "Thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor's goods" (Ex. 20:17). Moreover the same law forbade all kinds of sin; and these too
are contrary to reason. Consequently it is evident that it was a good law. The Apostle argues
in the same way (Rom. 7): "I am delighted," says he (verse 22), "with the law of God, according
to the inward man": and again (verse 16): "I consent to the law, that is good."

But it must be noted that the good has various degrees, as Dionysius states (Div. Nom. iv):
for there is a perfect good, and an imperfect good. In things ordained to an end, there is
perfect goodness when a thing is such that it is sufficient in itself to conduce to the end:
while there is imperfect goodness when a thing is of some assistance in attaining the end,
but is not sufficient for the realization thereof. Thus a medicine is perfectly good, if it
gives health to a man; but it is imperfect, if it helps to cure him, without being able to
bring him back to health. Again it must be observed that the end of human law is different
from the end of Divine law. For the end of human law is the temporal tranquillity of the state,
which end law effects by directing external actions, as regards those evils which might disturb
the peaceful condition of the state. On the other hand, the end of the Divine law is to bring
man to that end which is everlasting happiness; which end is hindered by any sin, not only
of external, but also of internal action. Consequently that which suffices for the perfection
of human law, viz. the prohibition and punishment of sin, does not suffice for the perfection
of the Divine law: but it is requisite that it should make man altogether fit to partake of
everlasting happiness. Now this cannot be done save by the grace of the Holy Ghost, whereby
"charity" which fulfilleth the law . . . "is spread abroad in our hearts" (Rom. 5:5): since
"the grace of God is life everlasting" (Rom. 6:23). Consequently the Old Law was good indeed,
but imperfect, according to Heb. 7:19: "The law brought nothing to perfection."

Reply Obj. 1: The Lord refers there to the ceremonial precepts; which are said not to be good,
because they did not confer grace unto the remission of sins, although by fulfilling these
precepts man confessed himself a sinner. Hence it is said pointedly, "and judgments in which
they shall not live"; i.e. whereby they are unable to obtain life; and so the text goes on:
"And I polluted them," i.e. showed them to be polluted, "in their own gifts, when they offered
all that opened the womb, for their offenses."

Reply Obj. 2: The law is said to have been deadly, as being not the cause, but the occasion
of death, on account of its imperfection: in so far as it did not confer grace enabling man
to fulfil what is prescribed, and to avoid what it forbade. Hence this occasion was not given
to men, but taken by them. Wherefore the Apostle says (Rom. 5:11): "Sin, taking occasion by
the commandment, seduced me, and by it killed me." In the same sense when it is said that "the
law entered in that sin might abound," the conjunction "that" must be taken as consecutive
and not final: in so far as men, taking occasion from the law, sinned all the more, both because
a sin became more grievous after law had forbidden it, and because concupiscence increased,
since we desire a thing the more from its being forbidden.

Reply Obj. 3: The yoke of the law could not be borne without the help of grace, which the law
did not confer: for it is written (Rom. 9:16): "It is not him that willeth, nor of him that
runneth," viz. that he wills and runs in the commandments of God, "but of God that showeth
mercy." Wherefore it is written (Ps. 118:32): "I have run the way of Thy commandments, when
Thou didst enlarge my heart," i.e. by giving me grace and charity.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 98, Art. 2]

Whether the Old Law Was from God? But the Law was imperfect, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore
the Old Law was not from God.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Eccles. 3:14): "I have learned that all the works which God
hath made continue for ever." But the Old Law does not continue for ever: since the Apostle
says (Heb. 7:18): "There is indeed a setting aside of the former commandment, because of the
weakness and unprofitableness thereof." Therefore the Old Law was not from God.

Obj. 3: Further, a wise lawgiver should remove, not only evil, but also the occasions of evil.
But the Old Law was an occasion of sin, as stated above (A. 1, ad 2). Therefore the giving
of such a law does not pertain to God, to Whom "none is like among the lawgivers" (Job 36:22).

Obj. 4: Further, it is written (1 Tim. 2:4) that God "will have all men to be saved." But the
Old Law did not suffice to save man, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore the giving of such a
law did not appertain to God. Therefore the Old Law was not from God.

On the contrary, Our Lord said (Matt. 15:6) while speaking to the Jews, to whom the Law was
given: "You have made void the commandment of God for your tradition." And shortly before (verse
4) He had said: "Honor thy father and mother," which is contained expressly in the Old Law
(Ex. 20:12; Deut. 5:16). Therefore the Old Law was from God.

I answer that, The Old Law was given by the good God, Who is the Father of Our Lord Jesus Christ.
For the Old Law ordained men to Christ in two ways. First by bearing witness to Christ; wherefore
He Himself says (Luke 24:44): "All things must needs be fulfilled, which are written in the
law . . . and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning Me": and (John 5:46): "If you
did believe Moses, you would perhaps believe Me also; for he wrote of Me." Secondly, as a kind
of disposition, since by withdrawing men from idolatrous worship, it enclosed (concludebat)
them in the worship of one God, by Whom the human race was to be saved through Christ. Wherefore
the Apostle says (Gal. 3:23): "Before the faith came, we were kept under the law shut up (conclusi),
unto that faith which was to be revealed." Now it is evident that the same thing it is, which
gives a disposition to the end, and which brings to the end; and when I say "the same," I mean
that it does so either by itself or through its subjects. For the devil would not make a law
whereby men would be led to Christ, Who was to cast him out, according to Matt. 12:26: "If
Satan cast out Satan, his kingdom is divided" [Vulg.: 'he is divided against himself']. Therefore
the Old Law was given by the same God, from Whom came salvation to man, through the grace of
Christ.

Reply Obj. 1: Nothing prevents a thing being not perfect simply, and yet perfect in respect
of time: thus a boy is said to be perfect, not simply, but with regard to the condition of
time. So, too, precepts that are given to children are perfect in comparison with the condition
of those to whom they are given, although they are not perfect simply. Hence the Apostle says
(Gal. 3:24): "The law was our pedagogue in Christ."

Reply Obj. 2: Those works of God endure for ever which God so made that they would endure for
ever; and these are His perfect works. But the Old Law was set aside when there came the perfection
of grace; not as though it were evil, but as being weak and useless for this time; because,
as the Apostle goes on to say, "the law brought nothing to perfection": hence he says (Gal.
3:25): "After the faith is come, we are no longer under a pedagogue."

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 79, A. 4), God sometimes permits certain ones to fall into
sin, that they may thereby be humbled. So also did He wish to give such a law as men by their
own forces could not fulfill, so that, while presuming on their own powers, they might find
themselves to be sinners, and being humbled might have recourse to the help of grace.

Reply Obj. 4: Although the Old Law did not suffice to save man, yet another help from God besides
the Law was available for man, viz. faith in the Mediator, by which the fathers of old were
justified even as we were. Accordingly God did not fail man by giving him insufficient aids
to salvation.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 98, Art. 3]

Whether the Old Law Was Given Through the Angels?

Objection 1: It seems that the Old Law was not given through the angels, but immediately by
God. For an angel means a "messenger"; so that the word "angel" denotes ministry, not lordship,
according to Ps. 102:20, 21: "Bless the Lord, all ye His Angels . . . you ministers of His."
But the Old Law is related to have been given by the Lord: for it is written (Ex. 20:1): "And
the Lord spoke . . . these words," and further on: "I am the Lord Thy God." Moreover the same
expression is often repeated in Exodus, and the later books of the Law. Therefore the Law was
given by God immediately.

Obj. 2: Further, according to John 1:17, "the Law was given by Moses." Therefore the Old Law
was given by God immediately.

Obj. 3: Further, it belongs to the sovereign alone to make a law, as stated above (Q. 90, A.
3). But God alone is Sovereign as regards the salvation of souls: while the angels are the
"ministering spirits," as stated in Heb. 1:14. Therefore it was not meet for the Law to be
given through the angels, since it is ordained to the salvation of souls.

On the contrary, The Apostle said (Gal. 3:19) that the Law was "given [Vulg.: 'ordained'] by
angels in the hand of a Mediator." And Stephen said (Acts 7:53): "(Who) have received the Law
by the disposition of angels."

I answer that, The Law was given by God through the angels. And besides the general reason
given by Dionysius (Coel. Hier. iv), viz. that "the gifts of God should be brought to men by
means of the angels," there is a special reason why the Old Law should have been given through
them. For it has been stated (AA. 1, 2) that the Old Law was imperfect, and yet disposed man
to that perfect salvation of the human race, which was to come through Christ. Now it is to
be observed that wherever there is an order of powers or arts, he that holds the highest place,
himself exercises the principal and perfect acts; while those things which dispose to the ultimate
perfection are effected by him through his subordinates: thus the ship-builder himself rivets
the planks together, but prepares the material by means of the workmen who assist him under
his direction. Consequently it was fitting that the perfect law of the New Testament should
be given by the incarnate God immediately; but that the Old Law should be given to men by the
ministers of God, i.e. by the angels. It is thus that the Apostle at the beginning of his epistle
to the Hebrews (1:2) proves the excellence of the New Law over the Old; because in the New
Testament "God . . . hath spoken to us by His Son," whereas in the Old Testament "the word
was spoken by angels" (Heb. 2:2).

Reply Obj. 1: As Gregory says at the beginning of his Morals (Praef. chap. i), "the angel who
is described to have appeared to Moses, is sometimes mentioned as an angel, sometimes as the
Lord: an angel, in truth, in respect of that which was subservient to the external delivery;
and the Lord, because He was the Director within, Who supported the effectual power of speaking."
Hence also it is that the angel spoke as personating the Lord.

Reply Obj. 2: As Augustine says (Gen. ad lit. xii, 27), it is stated in Exodus that "the Lord
spoke to Moses face to face"; and shortly afterwards we read, "'Show me Thy glory.' Therefore
He perceived what he saw and he desired what he saw not." Hence he did not see the very Essence
of God; and consequently he was not taught by Him immediately. Accordingly when Scripture states
that "He spoke to him face to face," this is to be understood as expressing the opinion of
the people, who thought that Moses was speaking with God mouth to mouth, when God spoke and
appeared to him, by means of a subordinate creature, i.e. an angel and a cloud. Again we may
say that this vision "face to face" means some kind of sublime and familiar contemplation,
inferior to the vision of the Divine Essence.

Reply Obj. 3: It is for the sovereign alone to make a law by his own authority; but sometimes
after making a law, he promulgates it through others. Thus God made the Law by His own authority,
but He promulgated it through the angels.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q, 98, Art. 4]

Whether the Old Law Should Have Been Given to the Jews Alone?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law should not have been given to the Jews alone. For
the Old Law disposed men for the salvation which was to come through Christ, as stated above
(AA. 2, 3). But that salvation was to come not to the Jews alone but to all nations, according
to Isa. 49:6: "It is a small thing that thou shouldst be my servant to raise up the tribes
of Jacob, and to convert the dregs of Israel. Behold I have given thee to be the light of the
Gentiles, that thou mayest be My salvation, even to the farthest part of the earth." Therefore
the Old Law should have been given to all nations, and not to one people only.

Obj. 2: Further, according to Acts 10:34, 35, "God is not a respecter of persons: but in every
nation, he that feareth Him, and worketh justice, is acceptable to Him." Therefore the way
of salvation should not have been opened to one people more than to another.

Obj. 3: Further, the law was given through the angels, as stated above (A. 3). But God always
vouchsafed the ministrations of the angels not to the Jews alone, but to all nations: for it
is written (Ecclus. 17:14): "Over every nation He set a ruler." Also on all nations He bestows
temporal goods, which are of less account with God than spiritual goods. Therefore He should
have given the Law also to all peoples.

On the contrary, It is written (Rom. 3:1, 2): "What advantage then hath the Jew? . . . Much
every way. First indeed, because the words of God were committed to them": and (Ps. 147:9):
"He hath not done in like manner to every nation: and His judgments He hath not made manifest
unto them."

I answer that, It might be assigned as a reason for the Law being given to the Jews rather
than to other peoples, that the Jewish people alone remained faithful to the worship of one
God, while the others turned away to idolatry; wherefore the latter were unworthy to receive
the Law, lest a holy thing should be given to dogs.

But this reason does not seem fitting: because that people turned to idolatry, even after the
Law had been made, which was more grievous, as is clear from Ex. 32 and from Amos 5:25, 26:
"Did you offer victims and sacrifices to Me in the desert for forty years, O house of Israel?
But you carried a tabernacle for your Moloch, and the image of your idols, the star of your
god, which you made to yourselves." Moreover it is stated expressly (Deut. 9:6): "Know therefore
that the Lord thy God giveth thee not this excellent land in possession for thy justices, for
thou art a very stiff-necked people": but the real reason is given in the preceding verse:
"That the Lord might accomplish His word, which He promised by oath to thy fathers Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob."

What this promise was is shown by the Apostle, who says (Gal. 3:16) that "to Abraham were the
promises made and to his seed. He saith not, 'And to his seeds,' as of many: but as of one,
'And to thy seed,' which is Christ." And so God vouchsafed both the Law and other special boons
to that people, on account of the promised made to their fathers that Christ should be born
of them. For it was fitting that the people, of whom Christ was to be born, should be signalized
by a special sanctification, according to the words of Lev. 19:2: "Be ye holy, because I .
. . am holy." Nor again was it on account of the merit of Abraham himself that this promise
was made to him, viz. that Christ should be born of his seed: but of gratuitous election and
vocation. Hence it is written (Isa. 41:2): "Who hath raised up the just one form the east,
hath called him to follow him?"

It is therefore evident that it was merely from gratuitous election that the patriarchs received
the promise, and that the people sprung from them received the law; according to Deut. 4:36,
37: "Ye did [Vulg.: 'Thou didst'] hear His words out of the midst of the fire, because He loved
thy fathers, and chose their seed after them." And if again it asked why He chose this people,
and not another, that Christ might be born thereof; a fitting answer is given by Augustine
(Tract. super Joan. xxvi): "Why He draweth one and draweth not another, seek not thou to judge,
if thou wish not to err."

Reply Obj. 1: Although the salvation, which was to come through Christ, was prepared for all
nations, yet it was necessary that Christ should be born of one people, which, for this reason,
was privileged above other peoples; according to Rom. 9:4: "To whom," namely the Jews, "belongeth
the adoption as of children (of God) . . . and the testament, and the giving of the Law . .
. whose are the fathers, and of whom is Christ according to the flesh."

Reply Obj. 2: Respect of persons takes place in those things which are given according to due;
but it has no place in those things which are bestowed gratuitously. Because he who, out of
generosity, gives of his own to one and not to another, is not a respecter of persons: but
if he were a dispenser of goods held in common, and were not to distribute them according to
personal merits, he would be a respecter of persons. Now God bestows the benefits of salvation
on the human race gratuitously: wherefore He is not a respecter of persons, if He gives them
to some rather than to others. Hence Augustine says (De Praedest. Sanct. viii): "All whom God
teaches, he teaches out of pity; but whom He teaches not, out of justice He teaches not": for
this is due to the condemnation of the human race for the sin of the first parent.

Reply Obj. 3: The benefits of grace are forfeited by man on account of sin: but not the benefits
of nature. Among the latter are the ministries of the angels, which the very order of various
natures demands, viz. that the lowest beings be governed through the intermediate beings: and
also bodily aids, which God vouchsafes not only to men, but also to beasts, according to Ps.
35:7: "Men and beasts Thou wilt preserve, O Lord."

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 98, Art. 5]

Whether All Men Were Bound to Observe the Old Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that all men were bound to observe the Old Law. Because whoever
is subject to the king, must needs be subject to his law. But the Old Law was given by God,
Who is "King of all the earth" (Ps. 46:8). Therefore all the inhabitants of the earth were
bound to observe the Law.

Obj. If therefore other men could be saved without the observance of the Old Law, the Jews
would be in a worse plight than other men.

Obj. 3: Further, the Gentiles were admitted to the Jewish ritual and to the observances of
the Law: for it is written (Ex. 12:48): "If any stranger be willing to dwell among you, and
to keep the Phase of the Lord, all his males shall first be circumcised, and then shall he
celebrate it according to the manner; and he shall be as he that is born in the land." But
it would have been useless to admit strangers to the legal observances according to Divine
ordinance, if they could have been saved without the observance of the Law. Therefore none
could be saved without observing the Law.

On the contrary, Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. ix) that many of the Gentiles were brought back
to God by the angels. But it is clear that the Gentiles did not observe the Law. Therefore
some could be saved without observing the Law.

I answer that, The Old Law showed forth the precepts of the natural law, and added certain
precepts of its own. Accordingly, as to those precepts of the natural law contained in the
Old Law, all were bound to observe the Old Law; not because they belonged to the Old Law, but
because they belonged to the natural law. But as to those precepts which were added by the
Old Law, they were not binding on any save the Jewish people alone.

The reason of this is because the Old Law, as stated above (A. 4), was given to the Jewish
people, that it might receive a prerogative of holiness, in reverence for Christ Who was to
be born of that people. Now whatever laws are enacted for the special sanctification of certain
ones, are binding on them alone: thus clerics who are set aside for the service of God are
bound to certain obligations to which the laity are not bound; likewise religious are bound
by their profession to certain works of perfection, to which people living in the world are
not bound. In like manner this people was bound to certain special observances, to which other
peoples were not bound. Wherefore it is written (Deut. 18:13): "Thou shalt be perfect and without
spot before the Lord thy God": and for this reason they used a kind of form of profession,
as appears from Deut. 26:3: "I profess this day before the Lord thy God," etc.

Reply Obj. 1: Whoever are subject to a king, are bound to observe his law which he makes for
all in general. But if he orders certain things to be observed by the servants of his household,
others are not bound thereto.

Reply Obj. 2: The more a man is united to God, the better his state becomes: wherefore the
more the Jewish people were bound to the worship of God, the greater their excellence over
other peoples. Hence it is written (Deut. 4:8): "What other nation is there so renowned that
hath ceremonies and just judgments, and all the law?" In like manner, from this point of view,
the state of clerics is better than that of the laity, and the state of religious than that
of folk living in the world.

Reply Obj. 3: The Gentiles obtained salvation more perfectly and more securely under the observances
of the Law than under the mere natural law: and for this reason they were admitted to them.
So too the laity are now admitted to the ranks of the clergy, and secular persons to those
of the religious, although they can be saved without this.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 98, Art. 6]

Whether the Old Law Was Suitably Given at the Time of Moses?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law was not suitably given at the time of Moses. Because
the Old Law disposed man for the salvation which was to come through Christ, as stated above
(AA. 2, 3). But man needed this salutary remedy immediately after he had sinned. Therefore
the Law should have been given immediately after sin.

Obj. 2: Further, the Old Law was given for the sanctification of those from whom Christ was
to be born. Now the promise concerning the "seed, which is Christ" (Gal. 3:16) was first made
to Abraham, as related in Gen. 12:7. Therefore the Law should have been given at once at the
time of Abraham.

Obj. 3: Further, as Christ was born of those alone who descended from Noe through Abraham,
to whom the promise was made; so was He born of no other of the descendants of Abraham but
David, to whom the promise was renewed, according to 2 Kings 23:1: "The man to whom it was
appointed concerning the Christ of the God of Jacob . . . said." Therefore the Old Law should
have been given after David, just as it was given after Abraham.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Gal. 3:19) that the Law "was set because of transgressions,
until the seed should come, to whom He made the promise, being ordained by angels in the hand
of a Mediator": ordained, i.e. "given in orderly fashion," as the gloss explains. Therefore
it was fitting that the Old Law should be given in this order of time.

I answer that, It was most fitting for the Law to be given at the time of Moses. The reason
for this may be taken from two things in respect of which every law is imposed on two kinds
of men. Because it is imposed on some men who are hard-hearted and proud, whom the law restrains
and tames: and it is imposed on good men, who, through being instructed by the law, are helped
to fulfil what they desire to do. Hence it was fitting that the Law should be given at such
a time as would be appropriate for the overcoming of man's pride. For man was proud of two
things, viz. of knowledge and of power. He was proud of his knowledge, as though his natural
reason could suffice him for salvation: and accordingly, in order that his pride might be overcome
in this matter, man was left to the guidance of his reason without the help of a written law:
and man was able to learn from experience that his reason was deficient, since about the time
of Abraham man had fallen headlong into idolatry and the most shameful vices. Wherefore, after
those times, it was necessary for a written law to be given as a remedy for human ignorance:
because "by the Law is the knowledge of sin" (Rom. 3:20). But, after man had been instructed
by the Law, his pride was convinced of his weakness, through his being unable to fulfil what
he knew. Hence, as the Apostle concludes (Rom. 8:3, 4), "what the Law could not do in that
it was weak through the flesh, God sent [Vulg.: 'sending'] His own Son . . . that the justification
of the Law might be fulfilled in us."

With regard to good men, the Law was given to them as a help; which was most needed by the
people, at the time when the natural law began to be obscured on account of the exuberance
of sin: for it was fitting that this help should be bestowed on men in an orderly manner, so
that they might be led from imperfection to perfection; wherefore it was becoming that the
Old Law should be given between the law of nature and the law of grace.

Reply Obj. 1: It was not fitting for the Old Law to be given at once after the sin of the first
man: both because man was so confident in his own reason, that he did not acknowledge his need
of the Old Law; because as yet the dictate of the natural law was not darkened by habitual sinning.

Reply Obj. 2: A law should not be given save to the people, since it is a general precept,
as stated above (Q. 90, AA. 2, 3); wherefore at the time of Abraham God gave men certain familiar,
and, as it were, household precepts: but when Abraham's descendants had multiplied, so as to
form a people, and when they had been freed from slavery, it was fitting that they should be
given a law; for "slaves are not that part of the people or state to which it is fitting for
the law to be directed," as the Philosopher says (Polit. iii, 2, 4, 5).

Reply Obj. 3: Since the Law had to be given to the people, not only those, of whom Christ was
born, received the Law, but the whole people, who were marked with the seal of circumcision,
which was the sign of the promise made to Abraham, and in which he believed, according to Rom.
4:11: hence even before David, the Law had to be given to that people as soon as they were
collected together.

QUESTION 99

OF THE PRECEPTS OF THE OLD LAW (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the precepts of the Old Law; and (1) how they are distinguished from one
another; (2) each kind of precept. Under the first head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the Old Law contains several precepts or only one?

(2) Whether the Old Law contains any moral precepts?

(3) Whether it contains ceremonial precepts in addition to the moral precepts?

(4) Whether besides these it contains judicial precepts?

(5) Whether it contains any others besides these?

(6) How the Old Law induced men to keep its precepts.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 99, Art. 1]

Whether the Old Law Contains Only One Precept?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law contains but one precept. Because a law is nothing
else than a precept, as stated above (Q. 90, AA. 2, 3). Now there is but one Old Law. Therefore
it contains but one precept.

Obj. 2: Further, the Apostle says (Rom. 13:9): "If there be any other commandment, it is comprised
in this word: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." But this is only one commandment. Therefore
the Old Law contained but one commandment.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (Matt. 7:12): "All things . . . whatsoever you would that men
should do to you, do you also to them. For this is the Law and the prophets." But the whole
of the Old Law is comprised in the Law and the prophets. Therefore the whole of the Old Law
contains but one commandment.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Eph. 2:15): "Making void the Law of commandments contained
in decrees": where he is referring to the Old Law, as the gloss comments, on the passage. Therefore
the Old Law comprises many commandments.

I answer that, Since a precept of law is binding, it is about something which must be done:
and, that a thing must be done, arises from the necessity of some end. Hence it is evident
that a precept implies, in its very idea, relation to an end, in so far as a thing is commanded
as being necessary or expedient to an end. Now many things may happen to be necessary or expedient
to an end; and, accordingly, precepts may be given about various things as being ordained to
one end. Consequently we must say that all the precepts of the Old Law are one in respect of
their relation to one end: and yet they are many in respect of the diversity of those things
that are ordained to that end.

Reply Obj. 1: The Old Law is said to be one as being ordained to one end: yet it comprises
various precepts, according to the diversity of the things which it directs to the end. Thus
also the art of building is one according to the unity of its end, because it aims at the building
of a house: and yet it contains various rules, according to the variety of acts ordained thereto.

Reply Obj. Wherefore the whole Law is comprised in this one commandment, "Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself," as expressing the end of all commandments: because love of one's neighbor
includes love of God, when we love our neighbor for God's sake.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated in Ethic. ix, 8, "friendship towards another arises from friendship
towards oneself," in so far as man looks on another as on himself. Hence when it is said, "All
things whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do you also to them," this is an explanation
of the rule of neighborly love contained implicitly in the words, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself": so that it is an explanation of this commandment.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 99, Art. 2]

Whether the Old Law Contains Moral Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law contains no moral precepts. For the Old Law is
distinct from the law of nature, as stated above (Q. 91, AA. 4, 5; Q. 98, A. 5). But the moral
precepts belong to the law of nature. Therefore they do not belong to the Old Law.

Obj. 2: Further, the Divine Law should have come to man's assistance where human reason fails
him: as is evident in regard to things that are of faith, which are above reason. But man's
reason seems to suffice for the moral precepts. Therefore the moral precepts do not belong
to the Old Law, which is a Divine law.

Obj. 3: Further, the Old Law is said to be "the letter that killeth" (2 Cor. 3:6). But the
moral precepts do not kill, but quicken, according to Ps. 118:93: "Thy justifications I will
never forget, for by them Thou hast given me life." Therefore the moral precepts do not belong
to the Old Law.

On the contrary, It is written (Ecclus. 17:9): "Moreover, He gave them discipline [Douay: 'instructions']
and the law of life for an inheritance." Now discipline belongs to morals; for this gloss on
Heb. 12:11: "Now all chastisement (disciplina)," etc., says: "Discipline is an exercise in
morals by means of difficulties." Therefore the Law which was given by God comprised moral
precepts.

I answer that, The Old Law contained some moral precepts; as is evident from Ex. 20:13, 15:
"Thou shalt not kill," "Thou shalt not steal." This was reasonable: because, just as the principal
intention of human law is to create friendship between man and man; so the chief intention
of the Divine law is to establish man in friendship with God. Now since likeness is the reason
of love, according to Ecclus. 13:19: "Every beast loveth its like"; there cannot possibly be
any friendship of man to God, Who is supremely good, unless man become good: wherefore it is
written (Lev. 19:2; 11:45): "You shall be holy, for I am holy." But the goodness of man is
virtue, which "makes its possessor good" (Ethic. ii, 6). Therefore it was necessary for the
Old Law to include precepts about acts of virtue: and these are the moral precepts of the Law.

Reply Obj. 1: The Old Law is distinct from the natural law, not as being altogether different
from it, but as something added thereto. For just as grace presupposes nature, so must the
Divine law presuppose the natural law.

Reply Obj. 2: It was fitting that the Divine law should come to man's assistance not only in
those things for which reason is insufficient, but also in those things in which human reason
may happen to be impeded. Now human reason could not go astray in the abstract, as to the universal
principles of the natural law; but through being habituated to sin, it became obscured in the
point of things to be done in detail. But with regard to the other moral precepts, which are
like conclusions drawn from the universal principles of the natural law, the reason of many
men went astray, to the extend of judging to be lawful, things that are evil in themselves.
Hence there was need for the authority of the Divine law to rescue man from both these defects.
Thus among the articles of faith not only are those things set forth to which reason cannot
reach, such as the Trinity of the Godhead; but also those to which right reason can attain,
such as the Unity of the Godhead; in order to remove the manifold errors to which reason is liable.

Reply Obj. 3: As Augustine proves (De Spiritu et Litera xiv), even the letter of the law is
said to be the occasion of death, as to the moral precepts; in so far as, to wit, it prescribes
what is good, without furnishing the aid of grace for its fulfilment.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 99, Art. 3]

Whether the Old Law Comprises Ceremonial, Besides Moral, Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law does not comprise ceremonial, besides moral, precepts.
For every law that is given to man is for the purpose of directing human actions. Now human
actions are called moral, as stated above (Q. 1, A. 3). Therefore it seems that the Old Law
given to men should not comprise other than moral precepts.

Obj. 2: Further, those precepts that are styled ceremonial seem to refer to the Divine worship.
But Divine worship is the act of a virtue, viz. religion, which, as Tully says (De Invent.
ii) "offers worship and ceremony to the Godhead." Since, then, the moral precepts are about
acts of virtue, as stated above (A. 2), it seems that the ceremonial precepts should not be
distinct from the moral.

Obj. 3: Further, the ceremonial precepts seem to be those which signify something figuratively.
But, as Augustine observes (De Doctr. Christ. ii, 3, 4), "of all signs employed by men words
hold the first place." Therefore there is no need for the Law to contain ceremonial precepts
about certain figurative actions.

On the contrary, It is written (Deut. 4:13, 14): "Ten words . . . He wrote in two tables of
stone; and He commanded me at that time that I should teach you the ceremonies and judgments
which you shall do." But the ten commandments of the Law are moral precepts. Therefore besides
the moral precepts there are others which are ceremonial.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), the Divine law is instituted chiefly in order to direct
men to God; while human law is instituted chiefly in order to direct men in relation to one
another. Hence human laws have not concerned themselves with the institution of anything relating
to Divine worship except as affecting the common good of mankind: and for this reason they
have devised many institutions relating to Divine matters, according as it seemed expedient
for the formation of human morals; as may be seen in the rites of the Gentiles. On the other
hand the Divine law directed men to one another according to the demands of that order whereby
man is directed to God, which order was the chief aim of that law. Now man is directed to God
not only by the interior acts of the mind, which are faith, hope, and love, but also by certain
external works, whereby man makes profession of his subjection to God: and it is these works
that are said to belong to the Divine worship. This worship is called "ceremony,"--the munia,
i.e. gifts, of Ceres (who was the goddess of fruits), as some say: because, at first, offerings
were made to God from the fruits: or because, as Valerius Maximus states [*Fact. et Dict. Memor.
i, 1], the word "ceremony" was introduced among the Latins, to signify the Divine worship,
being derived from a town near Rome called "Caere": since, when Rome was taken by the Gauls,
the sacred chattels of the Romans were taken thither and most carefully preserved. Accordingly
those precepts of the Law which refer to the Divine worship are specially called ceremonial.

Reply Obj. 1: Human acts extend also to the Divine worship: and therefore the Old Law given
to man contains precepts about these matters also.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 91, A. 3), the precepts of the natural law are general, and
require to be determined: and they are determined both by human law and by Divine law. And
just as these very determinations which are made by human law are said to be, not of natural,
but of positive law; so the determinations of the precepts of the natural law, effected by
the Divine law, are distinct from the moral precepts which belong to the natural law. Wherefore
to worship God, since it is an act of virtue, belongs to a moral precept; but the determination
of this precept, namely that He is to be worshipped by such and such sacrifices, and such and
such offerings, belongs to the ceremonial precepts. Consequently the ceremonial precepts are
distinct from the moral precepts.

Reply Obj. 3: As Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. i), the things of God cannot be manifested to
men except by means of sensible similitudes. Now these similitudes move the soul more when
they are not only expressed in words, but also offered to the senses. Wherefore the things
of God are set forth in the Scriptures not only by similitudes expressed in words, as in the
case of metaphorical expressions; but also by similitudes of things set before the eyes, which
pertains to the ceremonial precepts.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 99, Art. 4]

Whether, Besides the Moral and Ceremonial Precepts, There Are Also Judicial Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that there are no judicial precepts in addition to the moral and
ceremonial precepts in the Old Law. For Augustine says (Contra Faust. vi, 2) that in the Old
Law there are "precepts concerning the life we have to lead, and precepts regarding the life
that is foreshadowed." Now the precepts of the life we have to lead are moral precepts; and
the precepts of the life that is foreshadowed are ceremonial. Therefore besides these two kinds
of precepts we should not put any judicial precepts in the Law.

Obj. 2: Further, a gloss on Ps. 118:102, "I have not declined from Thy judgments," says, i.e.
"from the rule of life Thou hast set for me." But a rule of life belongs to the moral precepts.
Therefore the judicial precepts should not be considered as distinct from the moral precepts.

Obj. 3: Further, judgment seems to be an act of justice, according to Ps. 93:15: "Until justice
be turned into judgment." But acts of justice, like the acts of other virtues, belong to the
moral precepts. Therefore the moral precepts include the judicial precepts, and consequently
should not be held as distinct from them.

On the contrary, It is written (Deut. 6:1): "These are the precepts and ceremonies, and judgments":
where "precepts" stands for "moral precepts" antonomastically. Therefore there are judicial
precepts besides moral and ceremonial precepts.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 2, 3), it belongs to the Divine law to direct men to one
another and to God. Now each of these belongs in the abstract to the dictates of the natural
law, to which dictates the moral precepts are to be referred: yet each of them has to be determined
by Divine or human law, because naturally known principles are universal, both in speculative
and in practical matters. Accordingly just as the determination of the universal principle
about Divine worship is effected by the ceremonial precepts, so the determination of the general
precepts of that justice which is to be observed among men is effected by the judicial precepts.

We must therefore distinguish three kinds of precept in the Old Law; viz. moral precepts, which
are dictated by the natural law; ceremonial precepts, which are determinations of the Divine
worship; and judicial precepts, which are determinations of the justice to be maintained among
men. Wherefore the Apostle (Rom. 7:12) after saying that the "Law is holy," adds that "the
commandment is just, and holy, and good": "just," in respect of the judicial precepts; "holy,"
with regard to the ceremonial precepts (since the word "sanctus"--"holy"--is applied to that
which is consecrated to God); and "good," i.e. conducive to virtue, as to the moral precepts.

Reply Obj. 1: Both the moral and the judicial precepts aim at the ordering of human life: and
consequently they are both comprised under one of the heads mentioned by Augustine, viz. under
the precepts of the life we have to lead.

Reply Obj. 2: Judgment denotes execution of justice, by an application of the reason to individual
cases in a determinate way. Hence the judicial precepts have something in common with the moral
precepts, in that they are derived from reason; and something in common with the ceremonial
precepts, in that they are determinations of general precepts. This explains why sometimes
"judgments" comprise both judicial and moral precepts, as in Deut. 5:1: "Hear, O Israel, the
ceremonies and judgments"; and sometimes judicial and ceremonial precepts, as in Lev. 18:4:
"You shall do My judgments, and shall observe My precepts," where "precepts" denotes moral
precepts, while "judgments" refers to judicial and ceremonial precepts.

Reply Obj. 3: The act of justice, in general, belongs to the moral precepts; but its determination
to some special kind of act belongs to the judicial precepts.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 99, Art. 5]

Whether the Old Law Contains Any Others Besides the Moral, Judicial, and Ceremonial Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law contains others besides the moral, judicial, and
ceremonial precepts. Because the judicial precepts belong to the act of justice, which is between
man and man; while the ceremonial precepts belong to the act of religion, whereby God is worshipped.
Now besides these there are many other virtues, viz. temperance, fortitude, liberality, and
several others, as stated above (Q. 60, A. 5). Therefore besides the aforesaid precepts, the
Old Law should comprise others.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Deut. 11:1): "Love the Lord thy God, and observe His precepts
and ceremonies, His judgments and commandments." Now precepts concern moral matters, as stated
above (A. 4). Therefore besides the moral, judicial and ceremonial precepts, the Law contains
others which are called "commandments." [*The "commandments" (mandata) spoken of here and in
the body of this article are not to be confused with the Commandments (praecepta) in the ordinary
acceptance of the word.]

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (Deut. 6:17): "Keep the precepts of the Lord thy God, and the
testimonies and ceremonies which I have [Vulg.: 'He hath'] commanded thee." Therefore in addition
to the above, the Law comprises "testimonies."

Obj. 4: Further, it is written (Ps. 118:93): "Thy justifications (i.e. "Thy Law," according
to a gloss) I will never forget." Therefore in the Old Law there are not only moral, ceremonial
and judicial precepts, but also others, called "justifications." And these words are placed
at the beginning of the Law. Therefore all the precepts of the Law are included under them.

I answer that, Some things are included in the Law by way of precept; other things, as being
ordained to the fulfilment of the precepts. Now the precepts refer to things which have to
be done: and to their fulfilment man is induced by two considerations, viz. the authority of
the lawgiver, and the benefit derived from the fulfilment, which benefit consists in the attainment
of some good, useful, pleasurable or virtuous, or in the avoidance of some contrary evil. Hence
it was necessary that in the Old Law certain things should be set forth to indicate the authority
of God the lawgiver: e.g. Deut. Again it was necessary that in the Law certain rewards should
be appointed for those who observe the Law, and punishments for those who transgress; as it
may be seen in Deut. 28: "If thou wilt hear the voice of the Lord thy God . . . He will make
thee higher than all the nations," etc.: and these are called "justifications," according as
God punishes or rewards certain ones justly.

The things that have to be done do not come under the precept except in so far as they have
the character of a duty. Now a duty is twofold: one according to the rule of reason; the other
according to the rule of a law which prescribes that duty: thus the Philosopher distinguishes
a twofold just--moral and legal (Ethic. v, 7).

Moral duty is twofold: because reason dictates that something must be done, either as being
so necessary that without it the order of virtue would be destroyed; or as being useful for
the better maintaining of the order of virtue. And in this sense some of the moral precepts
are expressed by way of absolute command or prohibition, as "Thou shalt not kill," "Thou shalt
not steal": and these are properly called "precepts." Other things are prescribed or forbidden,
not as an absolute duty, but as something better to be done. These may be called "commandments";
because they are expressed by way of inducement and persuasion: an example whereof is seen
in Ex. 22:26: "If thou take of thy neighbor a garment in pledge, thou shalt give it him again
before sunset"; and in other like cases. Wherefore Jerome (Praefat. in Comment. super Marc.)
says that "justice is in the precepts, charity in the commandments." Duty as fixed by the Law,
belongs to the judicial precepts, as regards human affairs; to the ceremonial precepts, as
regards Divine matters.

Nevertheless those ordinances also which refer to punishments and rewards may be called "testimonies,"
in so far as they testify to the Divine justice. Again all the precepts of the Law may be styled
"justifications," as being executions of legal justice. Furthermore the commandments may be
distinguished from the precepts, so that those things be called "precepts" which God Himself
prescribed; and those things "commandments" which He enjoined (mandavit) through others, as
the very word seems to denote.

From this it is clear that all the precepts of the Law are either moral, ceremonial, or judicial;
and that other ordinances have not the character of a precept, but are directed to the observance
of the precepts, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 1: Justice alone, of all the virtues, implies the notion of duty. Consequently moral
matters are determinable by law in so far as they belong to justice: of which virtue religion
is a part, as Tully says (De Invent. ii). Wherefore the legal just cannot be anything foreign
to the ceremonial and judicial precepts.

The Replies to the other Objections are clear from what has been said.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 99, Art. 6]

Whether the Old Law Should Have Induced Men to the Observance of Its Precepts, by Means of
Temporal Promises and Threats? But the desire for temporal goods leads man away from God: for
Augustine says (Qq. lxxxiii, qu. 36), that "covetousness is the bane of charity." Therefore
temporal promises and threats seem to be contrary to the intention of a lawgiver: and this
makes a law worthy of rejection, as the Philosopher declares (Polit. ii, 6).

Obj. 2: Further, the Divine law is more excellent than human law. Now, in sciences, we notice
that the loftier the science, the higher the means of persuasion that it employs. Therefore,
since human law employs temporal threats and promises, as means of persuading man, the Divine
law should have used, not these, but more lofty means.

Obj. 3: Further, the reward of righteousness and the punishment of guilt cannot be that which
befalls equally the good and the wicked. But as stated in Eccles. 9:2, "all" temporal "things
equally happen to the just and to the wicked, to the good and the evil, to the clean and to
the unclean, to him that offereth victims, and to him that despiseth sacrifices." Therefore
temporal goods or evils are not suitably set forth as punishments or rewards of the commandments
of the Divine law.

On the contrary, It is written (Isa. 1:19, 20): "If you be willing, and will hearken to Me,
you shall eat the good things of the land. But if you will not, and will provoke Me to wrath:
the sword shall devour you."

I answer that, As in speculative sciences men are persuaded to assent to the conclusions by
means of syllogistic arguments, so too in every law, men are persuaded to observe its precepts
by means of punishments and rewards. Now it is to be observed that, in speculative sciences,
the means of persuasion are adapted to the conditions of the pupil: wherefore the process of
argument in sciences should be ordered becomingly, so that the instruction is based on principles
more generally known. And thus also he who would persuade a man to the observance of any precepts,
needs to move him at first by things for which he has an affection; just as children are induced
to do something, by means of little childish gifts. Now it has been said above (Q. 98, AA.
1, 2, 3) that the Old Law disposed men to (the coming of) Christ, as the imperfect in comparison
disposes to the perfect, wherefore it was given to a people as yet imperfect in comparison
to the perfection which was to result from Christ's coming: and for this reason, that people
is compared to a child that is still under a pedagogue (Gal. 3:24). But the perfection of man
consists in his despising temporal things and cleaving to things spiritual, as is clear from
the words of the Apostle (Phil. 3:13, 15): "Forgetting the things that are behind, I stretch
[Vulg.: 'and stretching'] forth myself to those that are before . . . Let us therefore, as
many as are perfect, be thus minded." Those who are yet imperfect desire temporal goods, albeit
in subordination to God: whereas the perverse place their end in temporalities. It was therefore
fitting that the Old Law should conduct men to God by means of temporal goods for which the
imperfect have an affection.

Reply Obj. 1: Covetousness whereby man places his end in temporalities, is the bane of charity.
But the attainment of temporal goods which man desires in subordination to God is a road leading
the imperfect to the love of God, according to Ps. 48:19: "He will praise Thee, when Thou shalt
do well to him."

Reply Obj. 2: Human law persuades men by means of temporal rewards or punishments to be inflicted
by men: whereas the Divine law persuades men by means of rewards or punishments to be received
from God. In this respect it employs higher means.

Reply Obj. 3: As any one can see, who reads carefully the story of the Old Testament, the common
weal of the people prospered under the Law as long as they obeyed it; and as soon as they departed
from the precepts of the Law they were overtaken by many calamities. But certain individuals,
although they observed the justice of the Law, met with misfortunes--either because they had
already become spiritual (so that misfortune might withdraw them all the more from attachment
to temporal things, and that their virtue might be tried)--or because, while outwardly fulfilling
the works of the Law, their heart was altogether fixed on temporal goods, and far removed from
God, according to Isa. 29:13 (Matt. 15:8): "This people honoreth Me with their lips; but their
hearts is far from Me."

QUESTION 100

OF THE MORAL PRECEPTS OF THE OLD LAW (In Twelve Articles)

We must now consider each kind of precept of the Old Law: and (1) the moral precepts, (2) the
ceremonial precepts, (3) the judicial precepts. Under the first head there are twelve points
of inquiry:

(1) Whether all the moral precepts of the Old Law belong to the law of nature?

(2) Whether the moral precepts of the Old Law are about the acts of all the virtues?

(3) Whether all the moral precepts of the Old Law are reducible to the ten precepts of the
decalogue?

(4) How the precepts of the decalogue are distinguished from one another?

(5) Their number;

(6) Their order;

(7) The manner in which they were given;

(8) Whether they are dispensable?

(9) Whether the mode of observing a virtue comes under the precept of the Law?

(10) Whether the mode of charity comes under the precept?

(11) The distinction of other moral precepts;

(12) Whether the moral precepts of the Old Law justified man?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 1]

Whether All the Moral Precepts of the Old Law Belong to the Law of Nature?

Objection 1: It would seem that not all the moral precepts belong to the law of nature. For
it is written (Ecclus. 17:9): "Moreover He gave them instructions, and the law of life for
an inheritance." But instruction is in contradistinction to the law of nature; since the law
of nature is not learnt, but instilled by natural instinct. Therefore not all the moral precepts
belong to the natural law.

Obj. 2: Further, the Divine law is more perfect than human law. But human law adds certain
things concerning good morals, to those that belong to the law of nature: as is evidenced by
the fact that the natural law is the same in all men, while these moral institutions are various
for various people. Much more reason therefore was there why the Divine law should add to the
law of nature, ordinances pertaining to good morals.

Obj. 3: Further, just as natural reason leads to good morals in certain matters, so does faith:
hence it is written (Gal. 5:6) that faith "worketh by charity." But faith is not included in
the law of nature; since that which is of faith is above nature. Therefore not all the moral
precepts of the Divine law belong to the law of nature. Therefore all the moral precepts of
the Law belong to the law of nature.

I answer that, The moral precepts, distinct from the ceremonial and judicial precepts, are
about things pertaining of their very nature to good morals. Now since human morals depend
on their relation to reason, which is the proper principle of human acts, those morals are
called good which accord with reason, and those are called bad which are discordant from reason.
And as every judgment of speculative reason proceeds from the natural knowledge of first principles,
so every judgment of practical reason proceeds from principles known naturally, as stated above
(Q. 94, AA. 2, 4): from which principles one may proceed in various ways to judge of various
matters. For some matters connected with human actions are so evident, that after very little
consideration one is able at once to approve or disapprove of them by means of these general
first principles: while some matters cannot be the subject of judgment without much consideration
of the various circumstances, which all are not competent to do carefully, but only those who
are wise: just as it is not possible for all to consider the particular conclusions of sciences,
but only for those who are versed in philosophy: and lastly there are some matters of which
man cannot judge unless he be helped by Divine instruction; such as the articles of faith.

It is therefore evident that since the moral precepts are about matters which concern good
morals; and since good morals are those which are in accord with reason; and since also every
judgment of human reason must needs by derived in some way from natural reason; it follows,
of necessity, that all the moral precepts belong to the law of nature; but not all in the same
way. For there are certain things which the natural reason of every man, of its own accord
and at once, judges to be done or not to be done: e.g. "Honor thy father and thy mother," and
"Thou shalt not kill," "Thou shalt not steal": and these belong to the law of nature absolutely.
And there are certain things which, after a more careful consideration, wise men deem obligatory.
Such belong to the law of nature, yet so that they need to be inculcated, the wiser teaching
the less wise: e.g. "Rise up before the hoary head, and honor the person of the aged man,"
and the like. And there are some things, to judge of which, human reason needs Divine instruction,
whereby we are taught about the things of God: e.g. "Thou shalt not make to thyself a graven
thing, nor the likeness of anything"; "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain."

This suffices for the Replies to the Objections.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 2]

Whether the Moral Precepts of the Law Are About All the Acts of Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that the moral precepts of the Law are not about all the acts of
virtue. For observance of the precepts of the Old Law is called justification, according to
Ps. 118:8: "I will keep Thy justifications." But justification is the execution of justice.
Therefore the moral precepts are only about acts of justice.

Obj. 2: Further, that which comes under a precept has the character of a duty. But the character
of duty belongs to justice alone and to none of the other virtues, for the proper act of justice
consists in rendering to each one his due. Therefore the precepts of the moral law are not
about the acts of the other virtues, but only about the acts of justice.

Obj. 3: Further, every law is made for the common good, as Isidore says (Etym. v, 21). But
of all the virtues justice alone regards the common good, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. v,
1). Therefore the moral precepts are only about the acts of justice.

On the contrary, Ambrose says (De Paradiso viii) that "a sin is a transgression of the Divine
law, and a disobedience to the commandments of heaven." But there are sins contrary to all
the acts of virtue. Therefore it belongs to Divine law to direct all the acts of virtue.

I answer that, Since the precepts of the Law are ordained to the common good, as stated above
(Q. 90, A. 2), the precepts of the Law must needs be diversified according to the various kinds
of community: hence the Philosopher (Polit. iv, 1) teaches that the laws which are made in
a state which is ruled by a king must be different from the laws of a state which is ruled
by the people, or by a few powerful men in the state. Now human law is ordained for one kind
of community, and the Divine law for another kind. Because human law is ordained for the civil
community, implying mutual duties of man and his fellows: and men are ordained to one another
by outward acts, whereby men live in communion with one another. This life in common of man
with man pertains to justice, whose proper function consists in directing the human community.
Wherefore human law makes precepts only about acts of justice; and if it commands acts of other
virtues, this is only in so far as they assume the nature of justice, as the Philosopher explains
(Ethic. v, 1).

But the community for which the Divine law is ordained, is that of men in relation to God,
either in this life or in the life to come. And therefore the Divine law proposes precepts
about all those matters whereby men are well ordered in their relations to God. Now man is
united to God by his reason or mind, in which is God's image. Wherefore the Divine law proposes
precepts about all those matters whereby human reason is well ordered. But this is effected
by the acts of all the virtues: since the intellectual virtues set in good order the acts of
the reason in themselves: while the moral virtues set in good order the acts of the reason
in reference to the interior passions and exterior actions. It is therefore evident that the
Divine law fittingly proposes precepts about the acts of all the virtues: yet so that certain
matters, without which the order of virtue, which is the order of reason, cannot even exist,
come under an obligation of precept; while other matters, which pertain to the well-being of
perfect virtue, come under an admonition of counsel.

Reply Obj. 1: The fulfilment of the commandments of the Law, even of those which are about
the acts of the other virtues, has the character of justification, inasmuch as it is just that
man should obey God: or again, inasmuch as it is just that all that belongs to man should be
subject to reason.

Reply Obj. 2: Justice properly so called regards the duty of one man to another: but all the
other virtues regard the duty of the lower powers to reason. It is in relation to this latter
duty that the Philosopher speaks (Ethic. v, 11) of a kind of metaphorical justice.

The Reply to the Third Objection is clear from what has been said about the different kinds
of community.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art.

Objection 1: It would seem that not all the moral precepts of the Old Law are reducible to
the ten precepts of the decalogue. 22:37, 39. But these two are not contained in the precepts
of the decalogue. Therefore not all the moral precepts are contained in the precepts of the
decalogue.

Obj. 2: Further, the moral precepts are not reducible to the ceremonial precepts, but rather
vice versa. But among the precepts of the decalogue, one is ceremonial, viz. "Remember that
thou keep holy the Sabbath-day." Therefore the moral precepts are not reducible to all the
precepts of the decalogue.

Obj. 3: Further, the moral precepts are about all the acts of virtue. But among the precepts
of the decalogue are only such as regard acts of justice; as may be seen by going through them
all. Therefore the precepts of the decalogue do not include all the moral precepts.

On the contrary, The gloss on Matt. 5:11: "Blessed are ye when they shall revile you," etc.
says that "Moses, after propounding the ten precepts, set them out in detail." Therefore all
the precepts of the Law are so many parts of the precepts of the decalogue.

I answer that, The precepts of the decalogue differ from the other precepts of the Law, in
the fact that God Himself is said to have given the precepts of the decalogue; whereas He gave
the other precepts to the people through Moses. Wherefore the decalogue includes those precepts
the knowledge of which man has immediately from God. Such are those which with but slight reflection
can be gathered at once from the first general principles: and those also which become known
to man immediately through divinely infused faith. Consequently two kinds of precepts are not
reckoned among the precepts of the decalogue: viz. first general principles, for they need
no further promulgation after being once imprinted on the natural reason to which they are
self-evident; as, for instance, that one should do evil to no man, and other similar principles:
and again those which the careful reflection of wise men shows to be in accord with reason;
since the people receive these principles from God, through being taught by wise men. Nevertheless
both kinds of precepts are contained in the precepts of the decalogue; yet in different ways.
For the first general principles are contained in them, as principles in their proximate conclusions;
while those which are known through wise men are contained, conversely, as conclusions in their
principles.

Reply Obj. 1: Those two principles are the first general principles of the natural law, and
are self-evident to human reason, either through nature or through faith. Wherefore all the
precepts of the decalogue are referred to these, as conclusions to general principles.

Reply Obj. 2: The precept of the Sabbath observance is moral in one respect, in so far as it
commands man to give some time to the things of God, according to Ps. 45:11: "Be still and
see that I am God." In this respect it is placed among the precepts of the decalogue: but not
as to the fixing of the time, in which respect it is a ceremonial precept.

Reply Obj. 3: The notion of duty is not so patent in the other virtues as it is in justice.
Hence the precepts about the acts of the other virtues are not so well known to the people
as are the precepts about acts of justice. Wherefore the acts of justice especially come under
the precepts of the decalogue, which are the primary elements of the Law.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 4]

Whether the Precepts of the Decalogue Are Suitably Distinguished from One Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that the precepts of the decalogue are unsuitably distinguished
from one another. For worship is a virtue distinct from faith. Now the precepts are about acts
of virtue. But that which is said at the beginning of the decalogue, "Thou shalt not have strange
gods before Me," belongs to faith: and that which is added, "Thou shalt not make . . . any
graven thing," etc. belongs to worship. Therefore these are not one precept, as Augustine asserts
(Qq. in Exod. qu. lxxi), but two.

Obj. But this, "I am the Lord thy God," is affirmative: and that which follows, "Thou shalt
not have strange gods before Me," is negative. Therefore these are two precepts, and do not,
as Augustine says (Qq. in Exod. qu. lxxi), make one.

Obj. 3: Further, the Apostle says (Rom. 7:7): "I had not known concupiscence, if the Law did
not say: 'Thou shalt not covet.'" Hence it seems that this precept, "Thou shalt not covet,"
is one precept; and, therefore, should not be divided into two.

On the contrary, stands the authority of Augustine who, in commenting on Exodus (Qq. in Exod.
qu. lxxi) distinguishes three precepts as referring to God, and seven as referring to our neighbor.

I answer that, The precepts of the decalogue are differently divided by different authorities.
For Hesychius commenting on Lev. 26:26, "Ten women shall bake your bread in one oven," says
that the precept of the Sabbath-day observance is not one of the ten precepts, because its
observance, in the letter, is not binding for all time. But he distinguishes four precepts
pertaining to God, the first being, "I am the Lord thy God"; the second, "Thou shalt not have
strange gods before Me," (thus also Jerome distinguishes these two precepts, in his commentary
on Osee 10:10, "On thy" [Vulg.: "their"] "two iniquities"); the third precept according to
him is, "Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven thing"; and the fourth, "Thou shalt not
take the name of the Lord thy God in vain."

But, in the first place, it seems unbecoming for the precept of the Sabbath-day observance
to be put among the precepts of the decalogue, if it nowise belonged to the decalogue. Secondly,
because, since it is written (Matt. 6:24), "No man can serve two masters," the two statements,
"I am the Lord thy God," and, "Thou shalt not have strange gods before Me" seem to be of the
same nature and to form one precept. Hence Origen (Hom. viii in Exod.) who also distinguishes
four precepts as referring to God, unites these two under one precept; and reckons in the second
place, "Thou shalt not make . . . any graven thing"; as third, "Thou shalt not take the name
of the Lord thy God in vain"; and as fourth, "Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath-day."
The other six he reckons in the same way as Hesychius.

Since, however, the making of graven things or the likeness of anything is not forbidden except
as to the point of their being worshipped as gods--for God commanded an image of the Seraphim
[Vulg.: Cherubim] to be made and placed in the tabernacle, as related in Ex. 25:18--Augustine
more fittingly unites these two, "Thou shalt not have strange gods before Me," and, "Thou shalt
not make . . . any graven thing," into one precept. Likewise to covet another's wife, for the
purpose of carnal knowledge, belongs to the concupiscence of the flesh; whereas, to covet other
things, which are desired for the purpose of possession, belongs to the concupiscence of the
eyes; wherefore Augustine reckons as distinct precepts, that which forbids the coveting of
another's goods, and that which prohibits the coveting of another's wife. Thus he distinguishes
three precepts as referring to God, and seven as referring to our neighbor. And this is better.

Reply Obj. 1: Worship is merely a declaration of faith: wherefore the precepts about worship
should not be reckoned as distinct from those about faith. Nevertheless precepts should be
given about worship rather than about faith, because the precept about faith is presupposed
to the precepts of the decalogue, as is also the precept of charity. For just as the first
general principles of the natural law are self-evident to a subject having natural reason,
and need no promulgation; so also to believe in God is a first and self-evident principle to
a subject possessed of faith: "for he that cometh to God, must believe that He is" (Heb. 11:6).
Hence it needs no other promulgation that the infusion of faith.

Reply Obj. 2: The affirmative precepts are distinct from the negative, when one is not comprised
in the other: thus that man should honor his parents does not include that he should not kill
another man; nor does the latter include the former. But when an affirmative precept is included
in a negative, or vice versa, we do not find that two distinct precepts are given: thus there
is not one precept saying that "Thou shalt not steal," and another binding one to keep another's
property intact, or to give it back to its owner. In the same way there are not different precepts
about believing in God, and about not believing in strange gods.

Reply Obj. 3: All covetousness has one common ratio: and therefore the Apostle speaks of the
commandment about covetousness as though it were one. But because there are various special
kinds of covetousness, therefore Augustine distinguishes different prohibitions against coveting:
for covetousness differs specifically in respect of the diversity of actions or things coveted,
as the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 5).

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 5]

Whether the Precepts of the Decalogue Are Suitably Set Forth?

Objection 1: It would seem that the precepts of the decalogue are unsuitably set forth. Because
sin, as stated by Ambrose (De Paradiso viii), is "a transgression of the Divine law and a disobedience
to the commandments of heaven." But sins are distinguished according as man sins against God,
or his neighbor, or himself. Since, then, the decalogue does not include any precepts directing
man in his relations to himself, but only such as direct him in his relations to God and himself,
it seems that the precepts of the decalogue are insufficiently enumerated.

Obj. 2: Further, just as the Sabbath-day observance pertained to the worship of God, so also
did the observance of other solemnities, and the offering of sacrifices. But the decalogue
contains a precept about the Sabbath-day observance. Therefore it should contain others also,
pertaining to the other solemnities, and to the sacrificial rite.

Obj. 3: Further, as sins against God include the sin of perjury, so also do they include blasphemy,
or other ways of lying against the teaching of God. But there is a precept forbidding perjury,
"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." Therefore there should be also
a precept of the decalogue forbidding blasphemy and false doctrine.

Obj. 4: Further, just as man has a natural affection for his parents, so has he also for his
children. Moreover the commandment of charity extends to all our neighbors. Now the precepts
of the decalogue are ordained unto charity, according to 1 Tim. 1:5: "The end of the commandment
is charity." Therefore as there is a precept referring to parents, so should there have been
some precepts referring to children and other neighbors.

Obj. 5: Further, in every kind of sin, it is possible to sin in thought or in deed. But in
some kinds of sin, namely in theft and adultery, the prohibition of sins of deed, when it is
said, "Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal," is distinct from the prohibition
of the sin of thought, when it is said, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's goods," and, "Thou
shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife." Therefore the same should have been done in regard to
the sins of homicide and false witness.

Obj. 6: Further, just as sin happens through disorder of the concupiscible faculty, so does
it arise through disorder of the irascible part. But some precepts forbid inordinate concupiscence,
when it is said, "Thou shalt not covet." Therefore the decalogue should have included some
precepts forbidding the disorders of the irascible faculty. Therefore it seems that the ten
precepts of the decalogue are unfittingly enumerated.

On the contrary, It is written (Deut. 4:13): "He shewed you His covenant, which He commanded
you to do, and the ten words that He wrote in two tablets of stone."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), just as the precepts of human law direct man in his
relations to the human community, so the precepts of the Divine law direct man in his relations
to a community or commonwealth of men under God. Now in order that any man may dwell aright
in a community, two things are required: the first is that he behave well to the head of the
community; the other is that he behave well to those who are his fellows and partners in the
community. It is therefore necessary that the Divine law should contain in the first place
precepts ordering man in his relations to God; and in the second place, other precepts ordering
man in his relations to other men who are his neighbors and live with him under God.

Now man owes three things to the head of the community: first, fidelity; secondly, reverence;
thirdly, service. Fidelity to his master consists in his not giving sovereign honor to another:
and this is the sense of the first commandment, in the words "Thou shalt not have strange gods."
Reverence to his master requires that he should do nothing injurious to him: and this is conveyed
by the second commandment, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." Service
is due to the master in return for the benefits which his subjects receive from him: and to
this belongs the third commandment of the sanctification of the Sabbath in memory of the creation
of all things.

To his neighbors a man behaves himself well both in particular and in general. In particular,
as to those to whom he is indebted, by paying his debts: and in this sense is to be taken the
commandment about honoring one's parents. In general, as to all men, by doing harm to none,
either by deed, or by word, or by thought. By deed, harm is done to one's neighbor--sometimes
in his person, i.e. as to his personal existence; and this is forbidden by the words, "Thou
shalt not kill": sometimes in a person united to him, as to the propagation of offspring; and
this is prohibited by the words, "Thou shalt not commit adultery": sometimes in his possessions,
which are directed to both the aforesaid; and with this regard to this it is said, "Thou shalt
not steal." Harm done by word is forbidden when it is said, "Thou shalt not bear false witness
against thy neighbor": harm done by thought is forbidden in the words, "Thou shalt not covet."

The three precepts that direct man in his behavior towards God may also be differentiated in
this same way. For the first refers to deeds; wherefore it is said, "Thou shalt not make .
. . a graven thing": the second, to words; wherefore it is said, "Thou shalt not take the name
of the Lord thy God in vain": the third, to thoughts; because the sanctification of the Sabbath,
as the subject of a moral precept, requires repose of the heart in God. Or, according to Augustine
(In Ps. 32: Conc. 1), by the first commandment we reverence the unity of the First Principle;
by the second, the Divine truth; by the third, His goodness whereby we are sanctified, and
wherein we rest as in our last end.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection may be answered in two ways. First, because the precepts of the
decalogue can be reduced to the precepts of charity. Now there was need for man to receive
a precept about loving God and his neighbor, because in this respect the natural law had become
obscured on account of sin: but not about the duty of loving oneself, because in this respect
the natural law retained its vigor: or again, because love of oneself is contained in the love
of God and of one's neighbor: since true self-love consists in directing oneself to God. And
for this reason the decalogue includes those precepts only which refer to our neighbor and to God.

Secondly, it may be answered that the precepts of the decalogue are those which the people
received from God immediately; wherefore it is written (Deut. 10:4): "He wrote in the tables,
according as He had written before, the ten words, which the Lord spoke to you." Hence the
precepts of the decalogue need to be such as the people can understand at once. Now a precept
implies the notion of duty. But it is easy for a man, especially for a believer, to understand
that, of necessity, he owes certain duties to God and to his neighbor. But that, in matters
which regard himself and not another, man has, of necessity, certain duties to himself, is
not so evident: for, at the first glance, it seems that everyone is free in matters that concern
himself. And therefore the precepts which prohibit disorders of a man with regard to himself,
reach the people through the instruction of men who are versed in such matters; and, consequently,
they are not contained in the decalogue.

Reply Obj. 2: All the solemnities of the Old Law were instituted in celebration of some Divine
favor, either in memory of past favors, or in sign of some favor to come: in like manner all
the sacrifices were offered up with the same purpose. Now of all the Divine favors to be commemorated
the chief was that of the Creation, which was called to mind by the sanctification of the Sabbath;
wherefore the reason for this precept is given in Ex. 20:11: "In six days the Lord made heaven
and earth," etc. And of all future blessings, the chief and final was the repose of the mind
in God, either, in the present life, by grace, or, in the future life, by glory; which repose
was also foreshadowed in the Sabbath-day observance: wherefore it is written (Isa. 58:13):
"If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy own will in My holy day, and call
the Sabbath delightful, and the holy of the Lord glorious." Because these favors first and
chiefly are borne in mind by men, especially by the faithful. But other solemnities were celebrated
on account of certain particular favors temporal and transitory, such as the celebration of
the Passover in memory of the past favor of the delivery from Egypt, and as a sign of the future
Passion of Christ, which though temporal and transitory, brought us to the repose of the spiritual
Sabbath. Consequently, the Sabbath alone, and none of the other solemnities and sacrifices,
is mentioned in the precepts of the decalogue.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Apostle says (Heb. 6:16), "men swear by one greater than themselves; and
an oath for confirmation is the end of all their controversy." Hence, since oaths are common
to all, inordinate swearing is the matter of a special prohibition by a precept of the decalogue.
According to one interpretation, however, the words, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord
thy God in vain," are a prohibition of false doctrine, for one gloss expounds them thus: "Thou
shalt not say that Christ is a creature."

Reply Obj. 4: That a man should not do harm to anyone is an immediate dictate of his natural
reason: and therefore the precepts that forbid the doing of harm are binding on all men. But
it is not an immediate dictate of natural reason that a man should do one thing in return for
another, unless he happen to be indebted to someone. Now a son's debt to his father is so evident
that one cannot get away from it by denying it: since the father is the principle of generation
and being, and also of upbringing and teaching. Wherefore the decalogue does not prescribe
deeds of kindness or service to be done to anyone except to one's parents. On the other hand
parents do not seem to be indebted to their children for any favors received, but rather the
reverse is the case. Again, a child is a part of his father; and "parents love their children
as being a part of themselves," as the Philosopher states (Ethic. viii, 12). Hence, just as
the decalogue contains no ordinance as to man's behavior towards himself, so, for the same
reason, it includes no precept about loving one's children.

Reply Obj. 5: The pleasure of adultery and the usefulness of wealth, in so far as they have
the character of pleasurable or useful good, are of themselves, objects of appetite: and for
this reason they needed to be forbidden not only in the deed but also in the desire. But murder
and falsehood are, of themselves, objects of repulsion (since it is natural for man to love
his neighbor and the truth): and are desired only for the sake of something else. Consequently
with regard to sins of murder and false witness, it was necessary to proscribe, not sins of
thought, but only sins of deed.

Reply Obj. 6: As stated above (Q. 25, A. 1), all the passions of the irascible faculty arise
from the passions of the concupiscible part. Hence, as the precepts of the decalogue are, as
it were, the first elements of the Law, there was no need for mention of the irascible passions,
but only of the concupiscible passions.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 6]

Whether the Ten Precepts of the Decalogue Are Set in Proper Order?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ten precepts of the decalogue are not set in proper order.
But the first three precepts belong to the love of God, while the other seven pertain to the
love of our neighbor. Therefore the precepts of the decalogue are not set in proper order.

Obj. 2: Further, the acts of virtue are prescribed by the affirmative precepts, and acts of
vice are forbidden by the negative precepts. But according to Boethius in his commentary on
the Categories [*Lib. iv, cap. De Oppos.], vices should be uprooted before virtues are sown.
Therefore among the precepts concerning our neighbor, the negative precepts should have preceded
the affirmative.

Obj. 3: Further, the precepts of the Law are about men's actions. But actions of thought precede
actions of word or outward deed. Therefore the precepts about not coveting, which regard our
thoughts, are unsuitably placed last in order. But the precepts of the decalogue were given
immediately by God, as stated above (A. 3). Therefore they are arranged in becoming order.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 3, 5, ad 1), the precepts of the decalogue are such as
the mind of man is ready to grasp at once. Now it is evident that a thing is so much the more
easily grasped by the reason, as its contrary is more grievous and repugnant to reason. Moreover,
it is clear, since the order of reason begins with the end, that, for a man to be inordinately
disposed towards his end, is supremely contrary to reason. Now the end of human life and society
is God. Consequently it was necessary for the precepts of the decalogue, first of all, to direct
man to God; since the contrary to this is most grievous. Thus also, in an army, which is ordained
to the commander as to its end, it is requisite first that the soldier should be subject to
the commander, and the opposite of this is most grievous; and secondly it is requisite that
he should be in coordination with the other soldiers.

Now among those things whereby we are ordained to God, the first is that man should be subjected
to Him faithfully, by having nothing in common with His enemies. The second is that he should
show Him reverence: the third that he should offer Him service. Thus, in an army, it is a greater
sin for a soldier to act treacherously and make a compact with the foe, than to be insolent
to his commander: and this last is more grievous than if he be found wanting in some point
of service to him.

As to the precepts that direct man in his behavior towards his neighbor, it is evident that
it is more repugnant to reason, and a more grievous sin, if man does not observe the due order
as to those persons to whom he is most indebted. Consequently, among those precepts that direct
man in his relations to his neighbor, the first place is given to that one which regards his
parents. Among the other precepts we again find the order to be according to the gravity of
sin. For it is more grave and more repugnant to reason, to sin by deed than by word; and by
word than by thought. And among sins of deed, murder which destroys life in one already living
is more grievous than adultery, which imperils the life of the unborn child; and adultery is
more grave than theft, which regards external goods.

Reply Obj. 1: Although our neighbor is better known than God by the way of the senses, nevertheless
the love of God is the reason for the love of our neighbor, as shall be declared later on (II-II,
Q. 25, A. 1; Q. 26, A. 2). Hence the precepts ordaining man to God demanded precedence of the
others.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as God is the universal principle of being in respect of all things, so
is a father a principle of being in respect of his son. Therefore the precept regarding parents
was fittingly placed after the precepts regarding God. This argument holds in respect of affirmative
and negative precepts about the same kind of deed: although even then it is not altogether
cogent. For although in the order of execution, vices should be uprooted before virtues are
sown, according to Ps. 33:15: "Turn away from evil, and do good," and Isa. 1:16, 17: "Cease
to do perversely; learn to do well"; yet, in the order of knowledge, virtue precedes vice,
because "the crooked line is known by the straight" (De Anima i): and "by the law is the knowledge
of sin" (Rom. 3:20). Wherefore the affirmative precept demanded the first place. However, this
is not the reason for the order, but that which is given above. Because in the precepts regarding
God, which belongs to the first table, an affirmative precept is placed last, since its transgression
implies a less grievous sin.

Reply Obj. 3: Although sin of thought stands first in the order of execution, yet its prohibition
holds a later position in the order of reason.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 7]

Whether the Precepts of the Decalogue Are Suitably Formulated?

Objection 1: It would seem that the precepts of the decalogue are unsuitably formulated. Because
the affirmative precepts direct man to acts of virtue, while the negative precepts withdraw
him from acts of vice. But in every matter there are virtues and vices opposed to one another.
Therefore in whatever matter there is an ordinance of a precept of the decalogue, there should
have been an affirmative and a negative precept. Therefore it was unfitting that affirmative
precepts should be framed in some matters, and negative precepts in others.

Obj. 2: Further, Isidore says (Etym. ii, 10) that every law is based on reason. But all the
precepts of the decalogue belong to the Divine law. Therefore the reason should have been pointed
out in each precept, and not only in the first and third.

Obj. 3: Further, by observing the precepts man deserves to be rewarded by God. But the Divine
promises concern the rewards of the precepts. Therefore the promise should have been included
in each precept, and not only in the second and fourth.

Obj. 4: Further, the Old Law is called "the law of fear," in so far as it induced men to observe
the precepts, by means of the threat of punishments. But all the precepts of the decalogue
belong to the Old Law. Therefore a threat of punishment should have been included in each,
and not only in the first and second.

Obj. 5: Further, all the commandments of God should be retained in the memory: for it is written
(Prov. 3:3): "Write them in the tables of thy heart." Therefore it was not fitting that mention
of the memory should be made in the third commandment only. Consequently it seems that the
precepts of the decalogue are unsuitably formulated.

On the contrary, It is written (Wis. 11:21) that "God made all things, in measure, number and
weight." Much more therefore did He observe a suitable manner in formulating His Law.

I answer that, The highest wisdom is contained in the precepts of the Divine law: wherefore
it is written (Deut. 4:6): "This is your wisdom and understanding in the sight of nations."
Now it belongs to wisdom to arrange all things in due manner and order. Therefore it must be
evident that the precepts of the Law are suitably set forth.

Reply Obj. 1: Affirmation of one thing always leads to the denial of its opposite: but the
denial of one opposite does not always lead to the affirmation of the other. For it follows
that if a thing is white, it is not black: but it does not follow that if it is not black,
it is white: because negation extends further than affirmation. And hence too, that one ought
not to do harm to another, which pertains to the negative precepts, extends to more persons,
as a primary dictate of reason, than that one ought to do someone a service or kindness. Nevertheless
it is a primary dictate of reason that man is a debtor in the point of rendering a service
or kindness to those from whom he has received kindness, if he has not yet repaid the debt.
Now there are two whose favors no man can sufficiently repay, viz. God and man's father, as
stated in Ethic. viii, 14. Therefore it is that there are only two affirmative precepts; one
about the honor due to parents, the other about the celebration of the Sabbath in memory of
the Divine favor.

Reply Obj. 2: The reasons for the purely moral precepts are manifest; hence there was no need
to add the reason. But some of the precepts include ceremonial matter, or a determination of
a general moral precept; thus the first precept includes the determination, "Thou shalt not
make a graven thing"; and in the third precept the Sabbath-day is fixed. Consequently there
was need to state the reason in each case.

Reply Obj. 3: Generally speaking, men direct their actions to some point of utility. Consequently
in those precepts in which it seemed that there would be no useful result, or that some utility
might be hindered, it was necessary to add a promise of reward. And since parents are already
on the way to depart from us, no benefit is expected from them: wherefore a promise of reward
is added to the precept about honoring one's parents. The same applies to the precept forbidding
idolatry: since thereby it seemed that men were hindered from receiving the apparent benefit
which they think they can get by entering into a compact with the demons.

Reply Obj. 4: Punishments are necessary against those who are prone to evil, as stated in Ethic.
x, 9. Wherefore a threat of punishment is only affixed to those precepts of the law which forbade
evils to which men were prone. Now men were prone to idolatry by reason of the general custom
of the nations. Likewise men are prone to perjury on account of the frequent use of oaths.
Hence it is that a threat is affixed to the first two precepts.

Reply Obj. 5: The commandment about the Sabbath was made in memory of a past blessing. Wherefore
special mention of the memory is made therein. Or again, the commandment about the Sabbath
has a determination affixed to it that does not belong to the natural law, wherefore this precept
needed a special admonition.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 8]

Whether the Precepts of the Decalogue Are Dispensable?

Objection 1: It would seem that the precepts of the decalogue are dispensable. For the precepts
of the decalogue belong to the natural law. But the natural law fails in some cases and is
changeable, like human nature, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. v, 7). Now the failure of law
to apply in certain particular cases is a reason for dispensation, as stated above (Q. 96,
A. 6; Q. 97, A. 4). Therefore a dispensation can be granted in the precepts of the decalogue.

Obj. 2: Further, man stands in the same relation to human law as God does to Divine law. But
man can dispense with the precepts of a law made by man. Therefore, since the precepts of the
decalogue are ordained by God, it seems that God can dispense with them. Now our superiors
are God's viceregents on earth; for the Apostle says (2 Cor. 2:10): "For what I have pardoned,
if I have pardoned anything, for your sakes have I done it in the person of Christ." Therefore
superiors can dispense with the precepts of the decalogue.

Obj. 3: Further, among the precepts of the decalogue is one forbidding murder. But it seems
that a dispensation is given by men in this precept: for instance, when according to the prescription
of human law, such as evil-doers or enemies are lawfully slain. Therefore the precepts of the
decalogue are dispensable.

Obj. 4: Further, the observance of the Sabbath is ordained by a precept of the decalogue. But
a dispensation was granted in this precept; for it is written (1 Macc. 2:4): "And they determined
in that day, saying: Whosoever shall come up to fight against us on the Sabbath-day, we will
fight against him." Therefore the precepts of the decalogue are dispensable.

On the contrary, are the words of Isa. 24:5, where some are reproved for that "they have changed
the ordinance, they have broken the everlasting covenant"; which, seemingly, apply principally
to the precepts of the decalogue. Therefore the precepts of the decalogue cannot be changed
by dispensation.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 96, A. 6; Q. 97, A. 4), precepts admit of dispensation,
when there occurs a particular case in which, if the letter of the law be observed, the intention
of the lawgiver is frustrated. Now the intention of every lawgiver is directed first and chiefly
to the common good; secondly, to the order of justice and virtue, whereby the common good is
preserved and attained. If therefore there be any precepts which contain the very preservation
of the common good, or the very order of justice and virtue, such precepts contain the intention
of the lawgiver, and therefore are indispensable. For instance, if in some community a law
were enacted, such as this--that no man should work for the destruction of the commonwealth,
or betray the state to its enemies, or that no man should do anything unjust or evil, such
precepts would not admit of dispensation. But if other precepts were enacted, subordinate to
the above, and determining certain special modes of procedure, these latter precepts would
admit of dispensation, in so far as the omission of these precepts in certain cases would not
be prejudicial to the former precepts which contain the intention of the lawgiver. For instance
if, for the safeguarding of the commonwealth, it were enacted in some city that from each ward
some men should keep watch as sentries in case of siege, some might be dispensed from this
on account of some greater utility.

Now the precepts of the decalogue contain the very intention of the lawgiver, who is God. For
the precepts of the first table, which direct us to God, contain the very order to the common
and final good, which is God; while the precepts of the second table contain the order of justice
to be observed among men, that nothing undue be done to anyone, and that each one be given
his due; for it is in this sense that we are to take the precepts of the decalogue. Consequently
the precepts of the decalogue admit of no dispensation whatever.

Reply Obj. 1: The Philosopher is not speaking of the natural law which contains the very order
of justice: for it is a never-failing principle that "justice should be preserved." But he
is speaking in reference to certain fixed modes of observing justice, which fail to apply in
certain cases.

Reply Obj. 2: As the Apostle says (2 Tim. 2:13), "God continueth faithful, He cannot deny Himself."
But He would deny Himself if He were to do away with the very order of His own justice, since
He is justice itself. Wherefore God cannot dispense a man so that it be lawful for him not
to direct himself to God, or not to be subject to His justice, even in those matters in which
men are directed to one another.

Reply Obj. 3: The slaying of a man is forbidden in the decalogue, in so far as it bears the
character of something undue: for in this sense the precept contains the very essence of justice.
Human law cannot make it lawful for a man to be slain unduly. But it is not undue for evil-doers
or foes of the common weal to be slain: hence this is not contrary to the precept of the decalogue;
and such a killing is no murder as forbidden by that precept, as Augustine observes (De Lib.
Arb. i, 4). In like manner when a man's property is taken from him, if it be due that he should
lose it, this is not theft or robbery as forbidden by the decalogue.

Consequently when the children of Israel, by God's command, took away the spoils of the Egyptians,
this was not theft; since it was due to them by the sentence of God. Likewise when Abraham
consented to slay his son, he did not consent to murder, because his son was due to be slain
by the command of God, Who is Lord of life and death: for He it is Who inflicts the punishment
of death on all men, both godly and ungodly, on account of the sin of our first parent, and
if a man be the executor of that sentence by Divine authority, he will be no murderer any more
than God would be. Again Osee, by taking unto himself a wife of fornications, or an adulterous
woman, was not guilty either of adultery or of fornication: because he took unto himself one
who was his by command of God, Who is the Author of the institution of marriage.

Accordingly, therefore, the precepts of the decalogue, as to the essence of justice which they
contain, are unchangeable: but as to any determination by application to individual actions--for
instance, that this or that be murder, theft or adultery, or not--in this point they admit
of change; sometimes by Divine authority alone, namely, in such matters as are exclusively
of Divine institution, as marriage and the like; sometimes also by human authority, namely
in such matters as are subject to human jurisdiction: for in this respect men stand in the
place of God: and yet not in all respects.

Reply Obj. 4: This determination was an interpretation rather than a dispensation. For a man
is not taken to break the Sabbath, if he does something necessary for human welfare; as Our
Lord proves (Matt. 12:3, seqq.).

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 9]

Whether the Mode of Virtue Falls Under the Precept of the Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the mode of virtue falls under the precept of the law. For
the mode of virtue is that deeds of justice should be done justly, that deeds of fortitude
should be done bravely, and in like manner as to the other virtues. But it is commanded (Deut.
26:20) that "thou shalt follow justly after that which is just." Therefore the mode of virtue
falls under the precept.

Obj. 2: Further, that which belongs to the intention of the lawgiver comes chiefly under the
precept. But the intention of the lawgiver is directed chiefly to make men virtuous, as stated
in Ethic. ii: and it belongs to a virtuous man to act virtuously. Therefore the mode of virtue
falls under the precept.

Obj. 3: Further, the mode of virtue seems to consist properly in working willingly and with
pleasure. But this falls under a precept of the Divine law, for it is written (Ps. 99:2): "Serve
ye the Lord with gladness"; and (2 Cor. 9:7): "Not with sadness or necessity: for God loveth
a cheerful giver"; whereupon the gloss says: "Whatever ye do, do gladly; and then you will
do it well; whereas if you do it sorrowfully, it is done in thee, not by thee." Therefore the
mode of virtue falls under the precept of the law.

On the contrary, No man can act as a virtuous man acts unless he has the habit of virtue, as
the Philosopher explains (Ethic. ii, 4; v, 8). Now whoever transgresses a precept of the law,
deserves to be punished. Hence it would follow that a man who has not the habit of virtue,
would deserve to be punished, whatever he does. But this is contrary to the intention of the
law, which aims at leading man to virtue, by habituating him to good works. Therefore the mode
of virtue does not fall under the precept.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, A. 3, ad 2), a precept of law has compulsory power.
Hence that on which the compulsion of the law is brought to bear, falls directly under the
precept of the law. Now the law compels through fear of punishment, as stated in Ethic. x,
9, because that properly falls under the precept of the law, for which the penalty of the law
is inflicted. But Divine law and human law are differently situated as to the appointment of
penalties; since the penalty of the law is inflicted only for those things which come under
the judgment of the lawgiver; for the law punishes in accordance with the verdict given. Now
man, the framer of human law, is competent to judge only of outward acts; because "man seeth
those things that appear," according to 1 Kings 16:7: while God alone, the framer of the Divine
law, is competent to judge of the inward movements of wills, according to Ps. 7:10: "The searcher
of hearts and reins is God."

Accordingly, therefore, we must say that the mode of virtue is in some sort regarded both by
human and by Divine law; in some respect it is regarded by the Divine, but not by the human
law; and in another way, it is regarded neither by the human nor by the Divine law. Now the
mode of virtue consists in three things, as the Philosopher states in Ethic. ii. The first
is that man should act "knowingly": and this is subject to the judgment of both Divine and
human law; because what a man does in ignorance, he does accidentally. Hence according to both
human and Divine law, certain things are judged in respect of ignorance to be punishable or
pardonable.

The second point is that a man should act "deliberately," i.e. "from choice, choosing that
particular action for its own sake"; wherein a twofold internal movement is implied, of volition
and of intention, about which we have spoken above (QQ. 8, 12): and concerning these two, Divine
law alone, and not human law, is competent to judge.

The third point is that he should "act from a firm and immovable principle": which firmness
belongs properly to a habit, and implies that the action proceeds from a rooted habit. In this
respect, the mode of virtue does not fall under the precept either of Divine or of human law,
since neither by man nor by God is he punished as breaking the law, who gives due honor to
his parents and yet has not the habit of filial piety.

Reply Obj. 1: The mode of doing acts of justice, which falls under the precept, is that they
be done in accordance with right; but not that they be done from the habit of justice.

Reply Obj. 2: The intention of the lawgiver is twofold. His aim, in the first place, is to
lead men to something by the precepts of the law: and this is virtue. Secondly, his intention
is brought to bear on the matter itself of the precept: and this is something leading or disposing
to virtue, viz. an act of virtue. For the end of the precept and the matter of the precept
are not the same: just as neither in other things is the end the same as that which conduces
to the end.

Reply Obj. 3: That works of virtue should be done without sadness, falls under the precept
of the Divine law; for whoever works with sadness works unwillingly. But to work with pleasure,
i.e. joyfully or cheerfully, in one respect falls under the precept, viz. in so far as pleasure
ensues from the love of God and one's neighbor (which love falls under the precept), and love
causes pleasure: and in another respect does not fall under the precept, in so far as pleasure
ensues from a habit; for "pleasure taken in a work proves the existence of a habit," as stated
in Ethic. ii, 3. For an act may give pleasure either on account of its end, or through its
proceeding from a becoming habit.

TENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 10]

Whether the Mode of Charity Falls Under the Precept of the Divine Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the mode of charity falls under the precept of the Divine law.
For it is written (Matt. 19:17): "If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments": whence
it seems to follow that the observance of the commandments suffices for entrance into life.
Therefore the mode of charity is included in the commandment.

Obj. 2: Further, the mode of charity consists properly speaking in doing all things for God.
But this falls under the precept; for the Apostle says (1 Cor. 10:31): "Do all to the glory
of God." Therefore the mode of charity falls under the precept.

Obj. 3: Further, if the mode of charity does not fall under the precept, it follows that one
can fulfil the precepts of the law without having charity. Now what can be done without charity
can be done without grace, which is always united to charity. Therefore one can fulfil the
precepts of the law without grace. But this is the error of Pelagius, as Augustine declares
(De Haeres. lxxxviii). Therefore the mode of charity is included in the commandment.

On the contrary, Whoever breaks a commandment sins mortally. If therefore the mode of charity
falls under the precept, it follows that whoever acts otherwise than from charity sins mortally.
But whoever has not charity, acts otherwise than from charity. Therefore it follows that whoever
has not charity, sins mortally in whatever he does, however good this may be in itself: which
is absurd.

I answer that, Opinions have been contrary on this question. For some have said absolutely
that the mode of charity comes under the precept; and yet that it is possible for one not having
charity to fulfil this precept: because he can dispose himself to receive charity from God.
Nor (say they) does it follow that a man not having charity sins mortally whenever he does
something good of its kind: because it is an affirmative precept that binds one to act from
charity, and is binding not for all time, but only for such time as one is in a state of charity.
On the other hand, some have said that the mode of charity is altogether outside the precept.

Both these opinions are true up to a certain point. Because the act of charity can be considered
in two ways. First, as an act by itself: and thus it falls under the precept of the law which
specially prescribes it, viz. In this sense, the first opinion is true. Because it is not impossible
to observe this precept which regards the act of charity; since man can dispose himself to
possess charity, and when he possesses it, he can use it. Secondly, the act of charity can
be considered as being the mode of the acts of the other virtues, i.e. inasmuch as the acts
of the other virtues are ordained to charity, which is "the end of the commandment," as stated
in 1 Tim. i, 5: for it has been said above (Q. 12, A. 4) that the intention of the end is a
formal mode of the act ordained to that end. In this sense the second opinion is true in saying
that the mode of charity does not fall under the precept, that is to say that this commandment,
"Honor thy father," does not mean that a man must honor his father from charity, but merely
that he must honor him. Wherefore he that honors his father, yet has not charity, does not
break this precept: although he does break the precept concerning the act of charity, for which
reason he deserves to be punished.

Reply Obj. 1: Our Lord did not say, "If thou wilt enter into life, keep one commandment"; but
"keep" all "the commandments": among which is included the commandment concerning the love
of God and our neighbor.

Reply Obj. 2: The precept of charity contains the injunction that God should be loved from
our whole heart, which means that all things would be referred to God. Consequently man cannot
fulfil the precept of charity, unless he also refer all things to God. And since these are
two affirmative precepts, not binding for all times, they can be binding, each one at a different
time: so that it may happen that a man fulfils the precept of honoring his father and mother,
without at the same time breaking the precept concerning the omission of the mode of charity.

Reply Obj. 3: Man cannot fulfil all the precepts of the law, unless he fulfil the precept of
charity, which is impossible without charity. Consequently it is not possible, as Pelagius
maintained, for man to fulfil the law without grace.

ELEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 11]

Whether It Is Right to Distinguish Other Moral Precepts of the Law Besides the Decalogue?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is wrong to distinguish other moral precepts of the law
besides the decalogue. Because, as Our Lord declared (Matt. 22:40), "on these two commandments"
of charity "dependeth the whole law and the prophets." But these two commandments are explained
by the ten commandments of the decalogue. Therefore there is no need for other moral precepts.

Obj. 2: Further, the moral precepts are distinct from the judicial and ceremonial precepts,
as stated above (Q. 99, AA. 3, 4). But the determinations of the general moral precepts belong
to the judicial and ceremonial precepts: and the general moral precepts are contained in the
decalogue, or are even presupposed to the decalogue, as stated above (A. 3). Therefore it was
unsuitable to lay down other moral precepts besides the decalogue.

Obj. 3: Further, the moral precepts are about the acts of all the virtues, as stated above
(A. 2). Therefore, as the Law contains, besides the decalogue, moral precepts pertaining to
religion, liberality, mercy, and chastity; so there should have been added some precepts pertaining
to the other virtues, for instance, fortitude, sobriety, and so forth. And yet such is not
the case. It is therefore unbecoming to distinguish other moral precepts in the Law besides
those of the decalogue.

On the contrary, It is written (Ps. 18:8): "The law of the Lord is unspotted, converting souls."
But man is preserved from the stain of sin, and his soul is converted to God by other moral
precepts besides those of the decalogue. Therefore it was right for the Law to include other
moral precepts.

I answer that, As is evident from what has been stated (Q. 99, AA. 3, 4), the judicial and
ceremonial precepts derive their force from their institution alone: since before they were
instituted, it seemed of no consequence whether things were done in this or that way. But the
moral precepts derive their efficacy from the very dictate of natural reason, even if they
were never included in the Law. Now of these there are three grades: for some are most certain,
and so evident as to need no promulgation; such as the commandments of the love of God and
our neighbor, and others like these, as stated above (A. 3), which are, as it were, the ends
of the commandments; wherefore no man can have an erroneous judgment about them. Some precepts
are more detailed, the reason of which even an uneducated man can easily grasp; and yet they
need to be promulgated, because human judgment, in a few instances, happens to be led astray
concerning them: these are the precepts of the decalogue. Again, there are some precepts the
reason of which is not so evident to everyone, but only the wise; these are moral precepts
added to the decalogue, and given to the people by God through Moses and Aaron.

But since the things that are evident are the principles whereby we know those that are not
evident, these other moral precepts added to the decalogue are reducible to the precepts of
the decalogue, as so many corollaries. Thus the first commandment of the decalogue forbids
the worship of strange gods: and to this are added other precepts forbidding things relating
to worship of idols: thus it is written (Deut. 18:10, 11): "Neither let there be found among
you anyone that shall expiate his son or daughter, making them to pass through the fire: .
. . neither let there by any wizard nor charmer, nor anyone that consulteth pythonic spirits,
or fortune-tellers, or that seeketh the truth from the dead." The second commandment forbids
perjury. To this is added the prohibition of blasphemy (Lev. 24:15, seqq) and the prohibition
of false doctrine (Deut. 13). To the third commandment are added all the ceremonial precepts.
To the fifth commandment, which forbids murder, is added the prohibition of hatred and of any
kind of violence inflicted on our neighbor, according to Lev. To the sixth commandment which
forbids adultery, is added the prohibition about whoredom, according to Deut. 23:17: "There
shall be no whore among the daughters of Israel, nor whoremonger among the sons of Israel";
and the prohibition against unnatural sins, according to Lev. 28:22, 23: "Thou shalt not lie
with mankind . . . thou shalt not copulate with any beast." To the seventh commandment which
prohibits theft, is added the precept forbidding usury, according to Deut. To the eighth commandment,
forbidding false testimony, is added the prohibition against false judgment, according to Ex.
23:2: "Neither shalt thou yield in judgment, to the opinion of the most part, to stray from
the truth"; and the prohibition against lying (Ex. 23:7): "Thou shalt fly lying," and the prohibition
against detraction, according to Lev. 19:16: "Thou shalt not be a detractor, nor a whisperer
among the people." To the other two commandments no further precepts are added, because thereby
are forbidden all kinds of evil desires.

Reply Obj. 1: The precepts of the decalogue are ordained to the love of God and our neighbor
as pertaining evidently to our duty towards them; but the other precepts are so ordained as
pertaining thereto less evidently.

Reply Obj. 2: It is in virtue of their institution that the ceremonial and judicial precepts
are determinations of the precepts of the decalogue, not by reason of a natural instinct, as
in the case of the superadded moral precepts.

Reply Obj. And since those virtues which direct our conduct towards others pertain directly
to the common good, as also does the virtue of chastity, in so far as the generative act conduces
to the common good of the species; hence precepts bearing directly on these virtues are given,
both in the decalogue and in addition thereto. As to the act of fortitude there are the order
to be given by the commanders in the war, which is undertaken for the common good: as is clear
from Deut. 20:3, where the priest is commanded (to speak thus): "Be not afraid, do not give
back." In like manner the prohibition of acts of gluttony is left to paternal admonition, since
it is contrary to the good of the household; hence it is said (Deut. 21:20) in the person of
parents: "He slighteth hearing our admonitions, he giveth himself to revelling, and to debauchery
and banquetings."

TWELFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 100, Art. 12]

Whether the Moral Precepts of the Old Law Justified Man?

Objection 1: It would seem that the moral precepts of the Old Law justified man. Because the
Apostle says (Rom. 2:13): "For not the hearers of the Law are justified before God, but the
doers of the Law shall be justified." But the doers of the Law are those who fulfil the precepts
of the Law. Therefore the fulfilling of the precepts of the Law was a cause of justification.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Lev. 18:5): "Keep My laws and My judgments, which if a man
do, he shall live in them." But the spiritual life of man is through justice. Therefore the
fulfilling of the precepts of the Law was a cause of justification.

Obj. 3: Further, the Divine law is more efficacious than human law. But human law justifies
man; since there is a kind of justice consisting in fulfilling the precepts of law. Therefore
the precepts of the Law justified man.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (2 Cor. 3:6): "The letter killeth": which, according to Augustine
(De Spir. et Lit. xiv), refers even to the moral precepts. Therefore the moral precepts did
not cause justice.

I answer that, Just as "healthy" is said properly and first of that which is possessed of health,
and secondarily of that which is a sign or a safeguard of health; so justification means first
and properly the causing of justice; while secondarily and improperly, as it were, it may denote
a sign of justice or a disposition thereto. If justice be taken in the last two ways, it is
evident that it was conferred by the precepts of the Law; in so far, to wit, as they disposed
men to the justifying grace of Christ, which they also signified, because as Augustine says
(Contra Faust. xxii, 24), "even the life of that people foretold and foreshadowed Christ."

But if we speak of justification properly so called, then we must notice that it can be considered
as in the habit or as in the act: so that accordingly justification may be taken in two ways.
First, according as man is made just, by becoming possessed of the habit of justice: secondly,
according as he does works of justice, so that in this sense justification is nothing else
than the execution of justice. Now justice, like the other virtues, may denote either the acquired
or the infused virtue, as is clear from what has been stated (Q. 63, A. 4). The acquired virtue
is caused by works; but the infused virtue is caused by God Himself through His grace. The
latter is true justice, of which we are speaking now, and in this respect of which a man is
said to be just before God, according to Rom. 4:2: "If Abraham were justified by works, he
hath whereof to glory, but not before God." Hence this justice could not be caused by moral
precepts, which are about human actions: wherefore the moral precepts could not justify man
by causing justice.

If, on the other hand, by justification we understand the execution of justice, thus all the
precepts of the Law justified man, but in various ways. Because the ceremonial precepts taken
as a whole contained something just in itself, in so far as they aimed at offering worship
to God; whereas taken individually they contained that which is just, not in itself, but by
being a determination of the Divine law. Hence it is said of these precepts that they did not
justify man save through the devotion and obedience of those who complied with them. On the
other hand the moral and judicial precepts, either in general or also in particular, contained
that which is just in itself: but the moral precepts contained that which is just in itself
according to that "general justice" which is "every virtue" according to Ethic. v, 1: whereas
the judicial precepts belonged to "special justice," which is about contracts connected with
the human mode of life, between one man and another.

Reply Obj. 1: The Apostle takes justification for the execution of justice.

Reply Obj. 2: The man who fulfilled the precepts of the Law is said to live in them, because
he did not incur the penalty of death, which the Law inflicted on its transgressors: in this
sense the Apostle quotes this passage (Gal. 3:12).

Reply Obj. 3: The precepts of human law justify man by acquired justice: it is not about this
that we are inquiring now, but only about that justice which is before God.

QUESTION 101

OF THE CEREMONIAL PRECEPTS IN THEMSELVES (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the ceremonial precepts: and first we must consider them in themselves;
secondly, their cause; thirdly, their duration. Under the first head there are four points
of inquiry:

(1) The nature of the ceremonial precepts;

(2) Whether they are figurative?

(3) Whether there should have been many of them?

(4) Of their various kinds.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 101, Art. 1]

Whether the Nature of the Ceremonial Precepts Consists in Their Pertaining to the Worship of God?

Objection 1: It would seem that the nature of the ceremonial precepts does not consist in their
pertaining to the worship of God. Because, in the Old Law, the Jews were given certain precepts
about abstinence from food (Lev. 11); and about refraining from certain kinds of clothes, e.g.
(Lev. 19:19): "Thou shalt not wear a garment that is woven of two sorts"; and again (Num. 15:38):
"To make to themselves fringes in the corners of their garments." But these are not moral precepts;
since they do not remain in the New Law. Nor are they judicial precepts; since they do not
pertain to the pronouncing of judgment between man and man. Therefore they are ceremonial precepts.
Yet they seem in no way to pertain to the worship of God. Therefore the nature of the ceremonial
precepts does not consist in their pertaining to Divine worship.

Obj. 2: Further, some state that the ceremonial precepts are those which pertain to solemnities;
as though they were so called from the cerei (candles) which are lit up on those occasions.
But many other things besides solemnities pertain to the worship of God. Therefore it does
not seem that the ceremonial precepts are so called from their pertaining to the Divine worship.

Obj. 3: Further, some say that the ceremonial precepts are patterns, i.e. rules, of salvation:
because the Greek chaire is the same as the Latin "salve." But all the precepts of the Law
are rules of salvation, and not only those that pertain to the worship of God. Therefore not
only those precepts which pertain to Divine worship are called ceremonial.

Obj. 4: Further, Rabbi Moses says (Doct. Perplex. iii) that the ceremonial precepts are those
for which there is no evident reason. But there is evident reason for many things pertaining
to the worship of God; such as the observance of the Sabbath, the feasts of the Passover and
of the Tabernacles, and many other things, the reason for which is set down in the Law. Therefore
the ceremonial precepts are not those which pertain to the worship of God.

On the contrary, It is written (Ex. 18:19, 20): "Be thou to the people in those things that
pertain to God . . . and . . . shew the people the ceremonies and the manner of worshipping."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 99, A. 4), the ceremonial precepts are determinations of
the moral precepts whereby man is directed to God, just as the judicial precepts are determinations
of the moral precepts whereby he is directed to his neighbor. Now man is directed to God by
the worship due to Him. Wherefore those precepts are properly called ceremonial, which pertain
to the Divine worship. The reason for their being so called was given above (Q. 99, A. 3),
when we established the distinction between the ceremonial and the other precepts.

Reply Obj. 1: The Divine worship includes not only sacrifices and the like, which seem to be
directed to God immediately, but also those things whereby His worshippers are duly prepared
to worship Him: thus too in other matters, whatever is preparatory to the end comes under the
science whose object is the end. Accordingly those precepts of the Law which regard the clothing
and food of God's worshippers, and other such matters, pertain to a certain preparation of
the ministers, with the view of fitting them for the Divine worship: just as those who administer
to a king make use of certain special observances. Consequently such are contained under the
ceremonial precepts.

Reply Obj. 2: The alleged explanation of the name does not seem very probable: especially as
the Law does not contain many instances of the lighting of candles in solemnities; since, even
the lamps of the Candlestick were furnished with "oil of olives," as stated in Lev. 24:2. Nevertheless
we may say that all things pertaining to the Divine worship were more carefully observed on
solemn festivals: so that all ceremonial precepts may be included under the observance of solemnities.

Reply Obj. 3: Neither does this explanation of the name appear to be very much to the point,
since the word "ceremony" is not Greek but Latin. We may say, however, that, since man's salvation
is from God, those precepts above all seem to be rules of salvation, which direct man to God:
and accordingly those which refer to Divine worship are called ceremonial precepts.

Reply Obj. 4: This explanation of the ceremonial precepts has a certain amount of probability:
not that they are called ceremonial precisely because there is no evident reason for them;
this is a kind of consequence. For, since the precepts referring to the Divine worship must
needs be figurative, as we shall state further on (A. 2), the consequence is that the reason
for them is not so very evident.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 101, Art. 2]

Whether the Ceremonial Precepts Are Figurative?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ceremonial precepts are not figurative. For it is the duty
of every teacher to express himself in such a way as to be easily understood, as Augustine
states (De Doctr. Christ. iv, 4, 10) and this seems very necessary in the framing of a law:
because precepts of law are proposed to the populace; for which reason a law should be manifest,
as Isidore declares (Etym. v, 21). If therefore the precepts of the Law were given as figures
of something, it seems unbecoming that Moses should have delivered these precepts without explaining
what they signified.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is done for the worship of God, should be entirely free from unfittingness.
But the performance of actions in representation of others, seems to savor of the theatre or
of the drama: because formerly the actions performed in theatres were done to represent the
actions of others. Therefore it seems that such things should not be done for the worship of
God. But the ceremonial precepts are ordained to the Divine worship, as stated above (A. 1).
Therefore they should not be figurative.

Obj. 3: Further, Augustine says (Enchiridion iii, iv) that "God is worshipped chiefly by faith,
hope, and charity." But the precepts of faith, hope, and charity are not figurative. Therefore
the ceremonial precepts should not be figurative.

Obj. But a figure is not the very truth: in fact one is condivided with the other. Therefore
the ceremonial precepts, which refer to the Divine worship, should not be figurative.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Col. 2:16, 17): "Let no man . . . judge you in meat or in
drink, or in respect of a festival day, or of the new moon, or of the sabbaths, which are a
shadow of things to come."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1; Q. 99, AA. 3, 4), the ceremonial precepts are those which
refer to the worship of God. Now the Divine worship is twofold: internal, and external. And
as the body is ordained to God through the soul, so the outward worship is ordained to the
internal worship. Now interior worship consists in the soul being united to God by the intellect
and affections. Wherefore according to the various ways in which the intellect and affections
of the man who worships God are rightly united to God, his external actions are applied in
various ways to the Divine worship.

For in the state of future bliss, the human intellect will gaze on the Divine Truth in Itself.
Wherefore the external worship will not consist in anything figurative, but solely in the praise
of God, proceeding from the inward knowledge and affection, according to Isa. 51:3: "Joy and
gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of praise."

But in the present state of life, we are unable to gaze on the Divine Truth in Itself, and
we need the ray of Divine light to shine upon us under the form of certain sensible figures,
as Dionysius states (Coel. Hier. i); in various ways, however, according to the various states
of human knowledge. For under the Old Law, neither was the Divine Truth manifest in Itself,
nor was the way leading to that manifestation as yet opened out, as the Apostle declares (Heb.
9:8). Hence the external worship of the Old Law needed to be figurative not only of the future
truth to be manifested in our heavenly country, but also of Christ, Who is the way leading
to that heavenly manifestation. But under the New Law this way is already revealed: and therefore
it needs no longer to be foreshadowed as something future, but to be brought to our minds as
something past or present: and the truth of the glory to come, which is not yet revealed, alone
needs to be foreshadowed. This is what the Apostle says (Heb. 11:1): "The Law has [Vulg.: 'having']
a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things": for a shadow is less
than an image; so that the image belongs to the New Law, but the shadow to the Old.

Reply Obj. 1: The things of God are not to be revealed to man except in proportion to his capacity:
else he would be in danger of downfall, were he to despise what he cannot grasp. Hence it was
more beneficial that the Divine mysteries should be revealed to uncultured people under a veil
of figures, that thus they might know them at least implicitly by using those figures to the
honor of God.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as human reason fails to grasp poetical expressions on account of their
being lacking in truth, so does it fail to grasp Divine things perfectly, on account of the
sublimity of the truth they contain: and therefore in both cases there is need of signs by
means of sensible figures.

Reply Obj. 3: Augustine is speaking there of internal worship; to which, however, external
worship should be ordained, as stated above.

The same answer applies to the Fourth Objection: because men were taught by Him to practice
more perfectly the spiritual worship of God.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 101, Art. 3]

Whether There Should Have Been Many Ceremonial Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that there should not have been many ceremonial precepts. For those
things which conduce to an end should be proportionate to that end. But the ceremonial precepts,
as stated above (AA. 1, 2), are ordained to the worship of God, and to the foreshadowing of
Christ. Now "there is but one God, of Whom are all things . . . and one Lord Jesus Christ,
by Whom are all things" (1 Cor. 8:6). Therefore there should not have been many ceremonial
precepts.

Obj. Now the transgression of the Divine precepts is an obstacle to man's salvation. Since,
therefore, every law should conduce to man's salvation, as Isidore says (Etym. v, 3), it seems
that the ceremonial precepts should not have been given in great number.

Obj. 3: Further, the ceremonial precepts referred to the outward and bodily worship of God,
as stated above (A. 2). But the Law should have lessened this bodily worship: since it directed
men to Christ, Who taught them to worship God "in spirit and in truth," as stated in John 4:23.
Therefore there should not have been many ceremonial precepts.

On the contrary, (Osee 8:12): "I shall write to them [Vulg.: 'him'] My manifold laws"; and
(Job 11:6): "That He might show thee the secrets of His wisdom, and that His Law is manifold."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 96, A. 1), every law is given to a people. Now a people
contains two kinds of men: some, prone to evil, who have to be coerced by the precepts of the
law, as stated above (Q. 95, A. 1); some, inclined to good, either from nature or from custom,
or rather from grace; and the like have to be taught and improved by means of the precepts
of the law. Accordingly, with regard to both kinds of men it was expedient that the Old Law
should contain many ceremonial precepts. For in that people there were many prone to idolatry;
wherefore it was necessary to recall them by means of ceremonial precepts from the worship
of idols to the worship of God. And since men served idols in many ways, it was necessary on
the other hand to devise many means of repressing every single one: and again, to lay many
obligations on such like men, in order that being burdened, as it were, by their duties to
the Divine worship, they might have no time for the service of idols. As to those who were
inclined to good, it was again necessary that there should be many ceremonial precepts; both
because thus their mind turned to God in many ways, and more continually; and because the mystery
of Christ, which was foreshadowed by these ceremonial precepts, brought many boons to the world,
and afforded men many considerations, which needed to be signified by various ceremonies.

Reply Obj. 1: When that which conduces to an end is sufficient to conduce thereto, then one
such thing suffices for one end: thus one remedy, if it be efficacious, suffices sometimes
to restore men to health, and then the remedy needs not to be repeated. But when that which
conduces to an end is weak and imperfect, it needs to be multiplied: thus many remedies are
given to a sick man, when one is not enough to heal him. Now the ceremonies of the Old Law
were weak and imperfect, both for representing the mystery of Christ, on account of its surpassing
excellence; and for subjugating men's minds to God. Hence the Apostle says (Heb. 7:18, 19):
"There is a setting aside of the former commandment because of the weakness and unprofitableness
thereof, for the law brought nothing to perfection." Consequently these ceremonies needed to
be in great number.

Reply Obj. 2: A wise lawgiver should suffer lesser transgressions, that the greater may be
avoided. And therefore, in order to avoid the sin of idolatry, and the pride which would arise
in the hearts of the Jews, were they to fulfil all the precepts of the Law, the fact that they
would in consequence find many occasions of disobedience did not prevent God from giving them
many ceremonial precepts.

Reply Obj. 3: The Old Law lessened bodily worship in many ways. Thus it forbade sacrifices
to be offered in every place and by any person. Many such like things did it enact for the
lessening of bodily worship; as Rabbi Moses, the Egyptian testifies (Doct. Perplex. iii). Nevertheless
it behooved not to attenuate the bodily worship of God so much as to allow men to fall away
into the worship of idols.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 101, Art. 4]

Whether the Ceremonies of the Old Law Are Suitably Divided into Sacrifices, Sacred Things,
Sacraments, and Observances?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ceremonies of the Old Law are unsuitably divided into "sacrifices,
sacred things, sacraments, and observances." For the ceremonies of the Old Law foreshadowed
Christ. But this was done only by the sacrifices, which foreshadowed the sacrifice in which
Christ "delivered Himself an oblation and a sacrifice to God" (Eph. 5:2). Therefore none but
the sacrifices were ceremonies.

Obj. 2: Further, the Old Law was ordained to the New. But in the New Law the sacrifice is the
Sacrament of the Altar. Therefore in the Old Law there should be no distinction between "sacrifices"
and "sacraments."

Obj. 3: Further, a "sacred thing" is something dedicated to God: in which sense the tabernacle
and its vessels were said to be consecrated. But all the ceremonial precepts were ordained
to the worship of God, as stated above (A. 1). Therefore all ceremonies were sacred things.
Therefore "sacred things" should not be taken as a part of the ceremonies.

Obj. 4: Further, "observances" are so called from having to be observed. But all the precepts
of the Law had to be observed: for it is written (Deut. 8:11): "Observe [Douay: 'Take heed']
and beware lest at any time thou forget the Lord thy God, and neglect His commandments and
judgments and ceremonies." Therefore the "observances" should not be considered as a part of
the ceremonies.

Obj. 5: Further, the solemn festivals are reckoned as part of the ceremonial: since they were
a shadow of things to come (Col. 2:16, 17): and the same may be said of the oblations and gifts,
as appears from the words of the Apostle (Heb. 9:9): and yet these do not seem to be inclined
in any of those mentioned above. Therefore the above division of ceremonies is unsuitable.

On the contrary, In the Old Law each of the above is called a ceremony. For the sacrifices
are called ceremonies (Num. 15:24): "They shall offer a calf . . . and the sacrifices and libations
thereof, as the ceremonies require." Of the sacrament of Order it is written (Lev. 7:35): "This
is the anointing of Aaron and his sons in the ceremonies." Of sacred things also it is written
(Ex. 38:21): "These are the instruments of the tabernacle of the testimony . . . in the ceremonies
of the Levites." And again of the observances it is written (3 Kings 9:6): "If you . . . shall
turn away from following Me, and will not observe [Douay: 'keep'] My . . . ceremonies which
I have set before you."

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 1, 2), the ceremonial precepts are ordained to the Divine
worship. Now in this worship we may consider the worship itself, the worshippers, and the instruments
of worship. The worship consists specially in sacrifices, which are offered up in honor of
God. The instruments of worship refer to the sacred things, such as the tabernacle, the vessels
and so forth. With regard to the worshippers two points may be considered. The first point
is their preparation for Divine worship, which is effected by a sort of consecration either
of the people or of the ministers; and to this the sacraments refer. The second point is their
particular mode of life, whereby they are distinguished from those who do not worship God:
and to this pertain the observances, for instance, in matters of food, clothing, and so forth.

Reply Obj. 1: It was necessary for the sacrifices to be offered both in some certain place
and by some certain men: and all this pertained to the worship of God. Wherefore just as their
sacrifices signified Christ the victim, so too their sacraments and sacred things foreshadowed
the sacraments and sacred things of the New Law; while their observances foreshadowed the mode
of life of the people under the New Law: all of which things pertain to Christ.

Reply Obj. 2: The sacrifice of the New Law, viz. the Eucharist, contains Christ Himself, the
Author of our Sanctification: for He sanctified "the people by His own blood" (Heb. 13:12).
Hence this Sacrifice is also a sacrament. But the sacrifices of the Old Law did not contain
Christ, but foreshadowed Him; hence they are not called sacraments. In order to signify this
there were certain sacraments apart from the sacrifices of the Old Law, which sacraments were
figures of the sanctification to come. Nevertheless to certain consecrations certain sacrifices
were united.

Reply Obj. 3: The sacrifices and sacraments were of course sacred things. But certain things
were sacred, through being dedicated to the Divine worship, and yet were not sacrifices or
sacraments: wherefore they retained the common designation of sacred things.

Reply Obj. 4: Those things which pertained to the mode of life of the people who worshipped
God, retained the common designation of observances, in so far as they fell short of the above.
For they were not called sacred things, because they had no immediate connection with the worship
of God, such as the tabernacle and its vessels had. But by a sort of consequence they were
matters of ceremony, in so far as they affected the fitness of the people who worshipped God.

Reply Obj. 5: Just as the sacrifices were offered in a fixed place, so were they offered at
fixed times: for which reason the solemn festivals seem to be reckoned among the sacred things.

QUESTION 102

OF THE CAUSES OF THE CEREMONIAL PRECEPTS (In Six Articles)

We must now consider the causes of the ceremonial precepts: under which head there are six
points of inquiry:

(1) Whether there was any cause for the ceremonial precepts?

(2) Whether the cause of the ceremonial precepts was literal or figurative?

(3) The causes of the sacrifices;

(4) The causes of the sacrifices;

(5) The causes of the sacred things;

(6) The causes of the observances.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 102, Art. 1]

Whether There Was Any Cause for the Ceremonial Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that there was no cause for the ceremonial precepts. Because on
Eph. 2:15, "Making void the law of the commandments," the gloss says, (i.e.) "making void the
Old Law as to the carnal observances, by substituting decrees, i.e. evangelical precepts, which
are based on reason." But if the observances of the Old Law were based on reason, it would
have been useless to void them by the reasonable decrees of the New Law. Therefore there was
no reason for the ceremonial observances of the Old Law.

Obj. 2: Further, the Old Law succeeded the law of nature. But in the law of nature there was
a precept for which there was no reason save that man's obedience might be tested; as Augustine
says (Gen. ad lit. viii, 6, 13), concerning the prohibition about the tree of life. Therefore
in the Old Law there should have been some precepts for the purpose of testing man's obedience,
having no reason in themselves.

Obj. 3: Further, man's works are called moral according as they proceed from reason. If therefore
there is any reason for the ceremonial precepts, they would not differ from the moral precepts.
It seems therefore that there was no cause for the ceremonial precepts: for the reason of a
precept is taken from some cause. But the ceremonial precepts are commandments of God. Therefore
they are lightsome: and yet they would not be so, if they had no reasonable cause. Therefore
the ceremonial precepts have a reasonable cause.

I answer that, Since, according to the Philosopher (Metaph. i, 2), it is the function of a
"wise man to do everything in order," those things which proceed from the Divine wisdom must
needs be well ordered, as the Apostle states (Rom. 13:1). Now there are two conditions required
for things to be well ordered. First, that they be ordained to their due end, which is the
principle of the whole order in matters of action: since those things that happen by chance
outside the intention of the end, or which are not done seriously but for fun, are said to
be inordinate. Secondly, that which is done in view of the end should be proportionate to the
end. From this it follows that the reason for whatever conduces to the end is taken from the
end: thus the reason for the disposition of a saw is taken from cutting, which is its end,
as stated in Phys. ii, 9. Consequently we must needs say that the ceremonial precepts were
ordained to a certain end, wherefrom their reasonable causes can be gathered.

Reply Obj. 1: It may be said there was no reason for the observances of the Old Law, in the
sense that there was no reason in the very nature of the thing done: for instance that a garment
should not be made of wool and linen. But there could be a reason for them in relation to something
else: namely, in so far as something was signified or excluded thereby. On the other hand,
the decrees of the New Law, which refer chiefly to faith and the love of God, are reasonable
from the very nature of the act.

Reply Obj. 2: The reason for the prohibition concerning the tree of knowledge of good and evil
was not that this tree was naturally evil: and yet this prohibition was reasonable in its relation
to something else, in as much as it signified something. And so also the ceremonial precepts
of the Old Law were reasonable on account of their relation to something else.

Reply Obj. 3: The moral precepts in their very nature have reasonable causes: as for instance,
"Thou shalt not kill," "Thou shalt not steal." But the ceremonial precepts have a reasonable
cause in their relation to something else, as stated above.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 102, Art. 2]

Whether the Ceremonial Precepts Have a Literal Cause or Merely a Figurative Cause?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ceremonial precepts have not a literal, but merely a figurative
cause. For among the ceremonial precepts, the chief was circumcision and the sacrifice of the
paschal lamb. But neither of these had any but a figurative cause: because each was given as
a sign. For it is written (Gen. 17:11): "You shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, that
it may be a sign of the covenant between Me and you": and of the celebration of the Passover
it is written (Ex. 13:9): "It shall be as a sign in thy hand, and as a memorial before thy
eyes." Therefore much more did the other ceremonial precepts have none but a figurative reason.

Obj. 2: Further, an effect is proportionate to its cause. But all the ceremonial precepts are
figurative, as stated above (Q. 101, A. 2). Therefore they have no other than a figurative cause.

Obj. 3: Further, if it be a matter of indifference whether a certain thing, considered in itself,
be done in a particular way or not, it seems that it has not a literal cause. Now there are
certain points in the ceremonial precepts, which appear to be a matter of indifference, as
to whether they be done in one way or in another: for instance, the number of animals to be
offered, and other such particular circumstances. Therefore there is no literal cause for the
precepts of the Old Law.

On the contrary, Just as the ceremonial precepts foreshadowed Christ, so did the stories of
the Old Testament: for it is written (1 Cor. 10:11) that "all (these things) happened to them
in figure." Now in the stories of the Old Testament, besides the mystical or figurative, there
is the literal sense. Therefore the ceremonial precepts had also literal, besides their figurative
causes.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the reason for whatever conduces to an end must be taken
from that end. Now the end of the ceremonial precepts was twofold: for they were ordained to
the Divine worship, for that particular time, and to the foreshadowing of Christ; just as the
words of the prophets regarded the time being in such a way as to be utterances figurative
of the time to come, as Jerome says on Osee 1:3. Accordingly the reasons for the ceremonial
precepts of the Old Law can be taken in two ways. First, in respect of the Divine worship which
was to be observed for that particular time: and these reasons are literal: whether they refer
to the shunning of idolatry; or recall certain Divine benefits; or remind men of the Divine
excellence; or point out the disposition of mind which was then required in those who worshipped
God. Secondly, their reasons can be gathered from the point of view of their being ordained
to foreshadow Christ: and thus their reasons are figurative and mystical: whether they be taken
from Christ Himself and the Church, which pertains to the allegorical sense; or to the morals
of the Christian people, which pertains to the moral sense; or to the state of future glory,
in as much as we are brought thereto by Christ, which refers to the anagogical sense.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as the use of metaphorical expressions in Scripture belongs to the literal
sense, because the words are employed in order to convey that particular meaning; so also the
meaning of those legal ceremonies which commemorated certain Divine benefits, on account of
which they were instituted, and of others similar which belonged to that time, does not go
beyond the order of literal causes. Consequently when we assert that the cause of the celebration
of the Passover was its signification of the delivery from Egypt, or that circumcision was
a sign of God's covenant with Abraham, we assign the literal cause.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument would avail if the ceremonial precepts had been given merely as
figures of things to come, and not for the purpose of worshipping God then and there.

Reply Obj. 3: As we have stated when speaking of human laws (Q. 96, AA. 1, 6), there is a reason
for them in the abstract, but not in regard to particular conditions, which depend on the judgment
of those who frame them; so also many particular determinations in the ceremonies of the Old
Law have no literal cause, but only a figurative cause; whereas in the abstract they have a
literal cause.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 102, Art. 3]

Whether a Suitable Cause Can Be Assigned for the Ceremonies Which Pertained to Sacrifices?

Objection 1: It would seem that no suitable cause can be assigned for the ceremonies pertaining
to sacrifices. For those things which were offered in sacrifice, are those which are necessary
for sustaining human life: such as certain animals and certain loaves. Therefore such sacrifices
were unfittingly offered to God.

Obj. 2: Further, only three kinds of quadrupeds were offered in sacrifice to God, viz. oxen,
sheep and goats; of birds, generally the turtledove and the dove; but specially, in the cleansing
of a leper, an offering was made of sparrows. Now many other animals are more noble than these.
Since therefore whatever is best should be offered to God, it seems that not only of these
three should sacrifices have been offered to Him.

Obj. 3: Further, just as man has received from God the dominion over birds and beasts, so also
has he received dominion over fishes. Consequently it was unfitting for fishes to be excluded
from the divine sacrifices.

Obj. 4: Further, turtledoves and doves indifferently are commanded to be offered up. Since
then the young of the dove are commanded to be offered, so also should the young of the turtledove.

Obj. 5: Further, God is the Author of life, not only of men, but also of animals, as is clear
from Gen. 1:20, seqq. Now death is opposed to life.

Obj. 6: Further, if none but slain animals were offered in sacrifice to God, it seems that
it mattered not how they were slain. Therefore it was unfitting that the manner of immolation
should be determined, especially as regards birds (Lev. 1:15, seqq.).

Obj. 7: Further, every defect in an animal is a step towards corruption and death. If therefore
slain animals were offered to God, it was unreasonable to forbid the offering of an imperfect
animal, e.g. a lame, or a blind, or otherwise defective animal.

Obj. 8: Further, those who offer victims to God should partake thereof, according to the words
of the Apostle (1 Cor. 10:18): "Are not they that eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar?"
It was therefore unbecoming for the offerers to be denied certain parts of the victims, namely,
the blood, the fat, the breastbone and the right shoulder.

Objection 9: Further, just as holocausts were offered up in honor of God, so also were the
peace-offerings and sin-offerings. But no female animals was offered up to God as a holocaust,
although holocausts were offered of both quadrupeds and birds. Therefore it was inconsistent
that female animals should be offered up in peace-offerings and sin-offerings, and that nevertheless
birds should not be offered up in peace-offerings.

Objection 10: Further, all the peace-offerings seem to be of one kind. Therefore it was unfitting
to make a distinction among them, so that it was forbidden to eat the flesh of certain peace-offerings
on the following day, while it was allowed to eat the flesh of other peace-offerings, as laid
down in Lev. 7:15, seqq.

Objection 11: Further, all sins agree in turning us from God. Therefore, in order to reconcile
us to God, one kind of sacrifice should have been offered up for all sins.

Objection 12: Further, all animals that were offered up in sacrifice, were offered up in one
way, viz. slain. Therefore it does not seem to be suitable that products of the soil should
be offered up in various ways; for sometimes an offering was made of ears of corn, sometimes
of flour, sometimes of bread, this being baked sometimes in an oven, sometimes in a pan, sometimes
on a gridiron.

Objection 13: Further, whatever things are serviceable to us should be recognized as coming
from God. It was therefore unbecoming that besides animals, nothing but bread, wine, oil, incense,
and salt should be offered to God.

Objection 14: Further, bodily sacrifices denote the inward sacrifice of the heart, whereby
man offers his soul to God. But in the inward sacrifice, the sweetness, which is denoted by
honey, surpasses the pungency which salt represents; for it is written (Ecclus. 24:27): "My
spirit is sweet above honey." Therefore it was unbecoming that the use of honey, and of leaven
which makes bread savory, should be forbidden in a sacrifice; while the use was prescribed,
of salt which is pungent, and of incense which has a bitter taste. Consequently it seems that
things pertaining to the ceremonies of the sacrifices have no reasonable cause.

On the contrary, It is written (Lev. 1:13): "The priest shall offer it all and burn it all
upon the altar, for a holocaust, and most sweet savor to the Lord." Now according to Wis. 7:28,
"God loveth none but him that dwelleth with wisdom": whence it seems to follow that whatever
is acceptable to God is wisely done. Therefore these ceremonies of the sacrifices were wisely
done, as having reasonable causes.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), the ceremonies of the Old Law had a twofold cause, viz.
a literal cause, according as they were intended for Divine worship; and a figurative or mystical
cause, according as they were intended to foreshadow Christ: and on either hand the ceremonies
pertaining to the sacrifices can be assigned to a fitting cause.

For, according as the ceremonies of the sacrifices were intended for the divine worship, the
causes of the sacrifices can be taken in two ways. First, in so far as the sacrifice represented
the directing of the mind to God, to which the offerer of the sacrifice was stimulated. Now
in order to direct his mind to God aright, man must recognize that whatever he has is from
God as from its first principle, and direct it to God as its last end. This was denoted in
the offerings and sacrifices, by the fact that man offered some of his own belongings in honor
of God, as though in recognition of his having received them from God, according to the saying
of David (1 Paral. xxix, 14): "All things are Thine: and we have given Thee what we received
of Thy hand." Wherefore in offering up sacrifices man made protestation that God is the first
principle of the creation of all things, and their last end, to which all things must be directed.
And since, for the human mind to be directed to God aright, it must recognize no first author
of things other than God, nor place its end in any other; for this reason it was forbidden
in the Law to offer sacrifice to any other but God, according to Ex. Wherefore another reasonable
cause may be assigned to the ceremonies of the sacrifices, from the fact that thereby men were
withdrawn from offering sacrifices to idols. Hence too it is that the precepts about the sacrifices
were not given to the Jewish people until after they had fallen into idolatry, by worshipping
the molten calf: as though those sacrifices were instituted, that the people, being ready to
offer sacrifices, might offer those sacrifices to God rather than to idols. Thus it is written
(Jer. 7:22): "I spake not to your fathers and I commanded them not, in the day that I brought
them out of the land of Egypt, concerning the matter of burnt-offerings and sacrifices."

Now of all the gifts which God vouchsafed to mankind after they had fallen away by sin, the
chief is that He gave His Son; wherefore it is written (John 3:16): "God so loved the world,
as to give His only-begotten Son; that whosoever believeth in Him, may not perish, but may
have life everlasting." Consequently the chief sacrifice is that whereby Christ Himself "delivered
Himself . . . to God for an odor of sweetness" (Eph. 5:2). And for this reason all the other
sacrifices of the Old Law were offered up in order to foreshadow this one individual and paramount
sacrifice--the imperfect forecasting the perfect. Hence the Apostle says (Heb. 10:11) that
the priest of the Old Law "often" offered "the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:
but" Christ offered "one sacrifice for sins, for ever." And since the reason of the figure
is taken from that which the figure represents, therefore the reasons of the figurative sacrifices
of the Old Law should be taken from the true sacrifice of Christ.

Reply Obj. 1: God did not wish these sacrifices to be offered to Him on account of the things
themselves that were offered, as though He stood in need of them: wherefore it is written (Isa.
1:11): "I desire not holocausts of rams, and fat of fatlings, and blood of calves and lambs
and buckgoats." But, as stated above, He wished them to be offered to Him, in order to prevent
idolatry; in order to signify the right ordering of man's mind to God; and in order to represent
the mystery of the Redemption of man by Christ.

Reply Obj. 2: In all the respects mentioned above (ad 1), there was a suitable reason for these
animals, rather than others, being offered in sacrifice to God. First, in order to prevent
idolatry. Because idolaters offered all other animals to their gods, or made use of them in
their sorceries: while the Egyptians (among whom the people had been dwelling) considered it
abominable to slay these animals, wherefore they used not to offer them in sacrifice to their
gods. Hence it is written (Ex. 8:26): "We shall sacrifice the abominations of the Egyptians
to the Lord our God." For they worshipped the sheep; they reverenced the ram (because demons
appeared under the form thereof); while they employed oxen for agriculture, which was reckoned
by them as something sacred.

Secondly, this was suitable for the aforesaid right ordering of man's mind to God: and in two
ways. First, because it is chiefly by means of these animals that human life is sustained:
and moreover they are most clean, and partake of a most clean food: whereas other animals are
either wild, and not deputed to ordinary use among men: or, if they be tame, they have unclean
food, as pigs and geese: and nothing but what is clean should be offered to God. These birds
especially were offered in sacrifice because there were plenty of them in the land of promise.
Secondly, because the sacrificing of these animals represented purity of heart. Because as
the gloss says on Lev. 1, "We offer a calf, when we overcome the pride of the flesh; a lamb,
when we restrain our unreasonable motions; a goat, when we conquer wantonness; a turtledove,
when we keep chaste; unleavened bread, when we feast on the unleavened bread of sincerity."
And it is evident that the dove denotes charity and simplicity of heart.

Thirdly, it was fitting that these animals should be offered, that they might foreshadow Christ.
Because, as the gloss observes, "Christ is offered in the calf, to denote the strength of the
cross; in the lamb, to signify His innocence; in the ram, to foreshadow His headship; and in
the goat, to signify the likeness of 'sinful flesh' [*An allusion to Col. 2:11 (Textus Receptus)].
The turtledove and dove denoted the union of the two natures"; or else the turtledove signified
chastity; while the dove was a figure of charity. "The wheat-flour foreshadowed the sprinkling
of believers with the water of Baptism."

Reply Obj. 3: Fish through living in water are further removed from man than other animals,
which, like man, live in the air. Again, fish die as soon as they are taken out of water; hence
they could not be offered in the temple like other animals.

Reply Obj. 4: Among turtledoves the older ones are better than the young; while with doves
the case is the reverse. Wherefore, as Rabbi Moses observes (Doct. Perplex. iii), turtledoves
and young doves are commanded to be offered, because nothing should be offered to God but what
is best.

Reply Obj. 5: The animals which were offered in sacrifice were slain, because it is by being
killed that they become useful to man, forasmuch as God gave them to man for food. Wherefore
also they were burnt with fire: because it is by being cooked that they are made fit for human
consumption. Moreover the slaying of the animals signified the destruction of sins: and also
that man deserved death on account of his sins; as though those animals were slain in man's
stead, in order to betoken the expiation of sins. Again the slaying of these animals signified
the slaying of Christ.

Reply Obj. 6: The Law fixed the special manner of slaying the sacrificial animals in order
to exclude other ways of killing, whereby idolaters sacrificed animals to idols. Or again,
as Rabbi Moses says (Doct. Perplex. iii), "the Law chose that manner of slaying which was least
painful to the slain animal." This excluded cruelty on the part of the offerers, and any mangling
of the animals slain.

Reply Obj. 7: It is because unclean animals are wont to be held in contempt among men, that
it was forbidden to offer them in sacrifice to God: and for this reason too they were forbidden
(Deut. 23:18) to offer "the hire of a strumpet or the price of a dog in the house of . . .
God." For the same reason they did not offer animals before the seventh day, because such were
abortive as it were, the flesh being not yet firm on account of its exceeding softness.

Reply Obj. 8: There were three kinds of sacrifices. There was one in which the victim was entirely
consumed by fire: this was called "a holocaust, i.e. all burnt." For this kind of sacrifice
was offered to God specially to show reverence to His majesty, and love of His goodness: and
typified the state of perfection as regards the fulfilment of the counsels. Wherefore the whole
was burnt up: so that as the whole animal by being dissolved into vapor soared aloft, so it
might denote that the whole man, and whatever belongs to him, are subject to the authority
of God, and should be offered to Him.

Another sacrifice was the "sin-offering," which was offered to God on account of man's need
for the forgiveness of sin: and this typifies the state of penitents in satisfying for sins.
It was divided into two parts: for one part was burnt; while the other was granted to the use
of the priests to signify that remission of sins is granted by God through the ministry of
His priests. When, however, this sacrifice was offered for the sins of the whole people, or
specially for the sin of the priest, the whole victim was burnt up. For it was not fitting
that the priests should have the use of that which was offered for their own sins, to signify
that nothing sinful should remain in them. Moreover, this would not be satisfaction for sin:
for if the offering were granted to the use of those for whose sins it was offered, it would
seem to be the same as if it had not been offered.

The third kind of sacrifice was called the "peace-offering," which was offered to God, either
in thanksgiving, or for the welfare and prosperity of the offerers, in acknowledgment of benefits
already received or yet to be received: and this typifies the state of those who are proficient
in the observance of the commandments. These sacrifices were divided into three parts: for
one part was burnt in honor of God; another part was allotted to the use of the priests; and
the third part to the use of the offerers; in order to signify that man's salvation is from
God, by the direction of God's ministers, and through the cooperation of those who are saved.

But it was the universal rule that the blood and fat were not allotted to the use either of
the priests or of the offerers: the blood being poured out at the foot of the altar, in honor
of God, while the fat was burnt upon the altar (Lev. 9:9, 10). The reason for this was, first,
in order to prevent idolatry: because idolaters used to drink the blood and eat the fat of
the victims, according to Deut. 32:38: "Of whose victims they eat the fat, and drank the wine
of their drink-offerings." Secondly, in order to form them to a right way of living. For they
were forbidden the use of the blood that they might abhor the shedding of human blood; wherefore
it is written (Gen. 9:4, 5): "Flesh with blood you shall not eat: for I will require the blood
of your lives": and they were forbidden to eat the fat, in order to withdraw them from lasciviousness;
hence it is written (Ezech. 34:3): "You have killed that which was fat." Thirdly, on account
of the reverence due to God: because blood is most necessary for life, for which reason "life"
is said to be "in the blood" (Lev. 17:11, 14): while fat is a sign of abundant nourishment.
Wherefore, in order to show that to God we owe both life and a sufficiency of all good things,
the blood was poured out, and the fat burnt up in His honor. Fourthly, in order to foreshadow
the shedding of Christ's blood, and the abundance of His charity, whereby He offered Himself
to God for us.

In the peace-offerings, the breast-bone and the right shoulder were allotted to the use of
the priest, in order to prevent a certain kind of divination which is known as "spatulamantia,"
so called because it was customary in divining to use the shoulder-blade (spatula), and the
breast-bone of the animals offered in sacrifice; wherefore these things were taken away from
the offerers. This is also denoted the priest's need of wisdom in the heart, to instruct the
people--this was signified by the breast-bone, which covers the heart; and his need of fortitude,
in order to bear with human frailty--and this was signified by the right shoulder.

Reply Obj. 9: Because the holocaust was the most perfect kind of sacrifice, therefore none
but a male was offered for a holocaust: because the female is an imperfect animal. The offering
of turtledoves and doves was on account of the poverty of the offerers, who were unable to
offer bigger animals. And since peace-victims were offered freely, and no one was bound to
offer them against his will, hence these birds were offered not among the peace-victims, but
among the holocausts and victims for sin, which man was obliged to offer at times. Moreover
these birds, on account of their lofty flight, were befitting the perfection of the holocausts:
and were suitable for sin-offerings because their song is doleful.

Reply Obj. 10: The holocaust was the chief of all the sacrifices: because all was burnt in
honor of God, and nothing of it was eaten. The second place in holiness, belongs to the sacrifice
for sins, which was eaten in the court only, and on the very day of the sacrifice (Lev. 7:6,
15). The third place must be given to the peace-offerings of thanksgiving, which were eaten
on the same day, but anywhere in Jerusalem. Fourth in order were the "ex-voto" peace-offerings,
the flesh of which could be eaten even on the morrow. The reason for this order is that man
is bound to God, chiefly on account of His majesty; secondly, on account of the sins he has
committed; thirdly, because of the benefits he has already received from Him; fourthly, by
reason of the benefits he hopes to receive from Him.

Reply Obj. 11: Sins are more grievous by reason of the state of the sinner, as stated above
(Q. 73, A. 10): wherefore different victims are commanded to be offered for the sin of a priest,
or of a prince, or of some other private individual. "But," as Rabbi Moses says (Doct. Perplex.
iii), "we must take note that the more grievous the sin, the lower the species of animals offered
for it. Wherefore the goat, which is a very base animal, was offered for idolatry; while a
calf was offered for a priest's ignorance, and a ram for the negligence of a prince."

Reply Obj. 12: In the matter of sacrifices the Law had in view the poverty of the offerers;
so that those who could not have a four-footed animal at their disposal, might at least offer
a bird; and that he who could not have a bird might at least offer bread; and that if a man
had not even bread he might offer flour or ears of corn.

The figurative cause is that the bread signifies Christ Who is the "living bread" (John 6:41,
51). He was indeed an ear of corn, as it were, during the state of the law of nature, in the
faith of the patriarchs; He was like flour in the doctrine of the Law of the prophets; and
He was like perfect bread after He had taken human nature; baked in the fire, i.e. formed by
the Holy Ghost in the oven of the virginal womb; baked again in a pan by the toils which He
suffered in the world; and consumed by fire on the cross as on a gridiron.

Reply Obj. 13: The products of the soil are useful to man, either as food, and of these bread
was offered; or as drink, and of these wine was offered; or as seasoning, and of these oil
and salt were offered; or as healing, and of these they offered incense, which both smells
sweetly and binds easily together.

Now the bread foreshadowed the flesh of Christ; and the wine, His blood, whereby we were redeemed;
oil betokens the grace of Christ; salt, His knowledge; incense, His prayer.

Reply Obj. 14: Honey was not offered in the sacrifices to God, both because it was wont to
be offered in the sacrifices to idols; and in order to denote the absence of all carnal sweetness
and pleasure from those who intend to sacrifice to God. Leaven was not offered, to denote the
exclusion of corruption. Perhaps too, it was wont to be offered in the sacrifices to idols.

Salt, however, was offered, because it wards off the corruption of putrefaction: for sacrifices
offered to God should be incorrupt. Moreover, salt signifies the discretion of wisdom, or again,
mortification of the flesh.

Incense was offered to denote devotion of the heart, which is necessary in the offerer; and
again, to signify the odor of a good name: for incense is composed of matter, both rich and
fragrant. And since the sacrifice "of jealousy" did not proceed from devotion, but rather from
suspicion, therefore incense was not offered therein (Num. 5:15).

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 102, Art. 4]

Whether Sufficient Reason Can Be Assigned for the Ceremonies Pertaining to Holy Things?

Objection 1: It would seem that no sufficient reason can be assigned for the ceremonies of
the Old Law that pertain to holy things. It was therefore unfitting that in the Old Law a tabernacle
or temple should be set up for the worship of God.

Obj. 2: Further, the state of the Old Law was not changed except by Christ. But the tabernacle
denoted the state of the Old Law. Therefore it should not have been changed by the building
of a temple.

Obj. 3: Further, the Divine Law, more than any other indeed, should lead man to the worship
of God. But an increase of divine worship requires multiplication of altars and temples; as
is evident in regard to the New Law. Therefore it seems that also under the Old Law there should
have been not only one tabernacle or temple, but many.

Obj. 4: Further, the tabernacle or temple was ordained to the worship of God. But in God we
should worship above all His unity and simplicity. Therefore it seems unbecoming for the tabernacle
or temple to be divided by means of veils.

Obj. 5: Further, the power of the First Mover, i.e. God, appears first of all in the east,
for it is in that quarter that the first movement begins. But the tabernacle was set up for
the worship of God. Therefore it should have been built so as to point to the east rather than
the west.

Obj. 6: Further, the Lord commanded (Ex. 20:4) that they should "not make . . . a graven thing,
nor the likeness of anything." It was therefore unfitting for graven images of the cherubim
to be set up in the tabernacle or temple. In like manner, the ark, the propitiatory, the candlestick,
the table, the two altars, seem to have been placed there without reasonable cause.

Obj. 7: Further, the Lord commanded (Ex. 20:24): "You shall make an altar of earth unto Me":
and again (Ex. 20:26): "Thou shalt not go up by steps unto My altar." It was therefore unfitting
that subsequently they should be commanded to make an altar of wood laid over with gold or
brass; and of such a height that it was impossible to go up to it except by steps. For it is
written (Ex. 27:1, 2): "Thou shalt make also an altar of setim wood, which shall be five cubits
long, and as many broad . . . and three cubits high . . . and thou shalt cover it with brass":
and (Ex. 30:1, 3): "Thou shalt make . . . an altar to burn incense, of setim wood . . . and
thou shalt overlay it with the purest gold."

Obj. 8: Further, in God's works nothing should be superfluous; for not even in the works of
nature is anything superfluous to be found. But one cover suffices for one tabernacle or house.
26).

Objection 9: Further, exterior consecration signifies interior holiness, the subject of which
is the soul. It was therefore unsuitable for the tabernacle and its vessels to be consecrated,
since they were inanimate things.

Objection 10: Further, it is written (Ps. 33:2): "I will bless the Lord at all times, His praise
shall always be in my mouth." But the solemn festivals were instituted for the praise of God.
Therefore it was not fitting that certain days should be fixed for keeping solemn festivals;
so that it seems that there was no suitable cause for the ceremonies relating to holy things.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Heb. 8:4) that those who "offer gifts according to the law
. . . serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. As it was answered to Moses, when
he was to finish the tabernacle: See, says He, that thou make all things according to the pattern
which was shown thee on the mount." But that is most reasonable, which presents a likeness
to heavenly things. Therefore the ceremonies relating to holy things had a reasonable cause.

I answer that, The chief purpose of the whole external worship is that man may give worship
to God. Now man's tendency is to reverence less those things which are common, and indistinct
from other things; whereas he admires and reveres those things which are distinct from others
in some point of excellence. Hence too it is customary among men for kings and princes, who
ought to be reverenced by their subjects, to be clothed in more precious garments, and to possess
vaster and more beautiful abodes. And for this reason it behooved special times, a special
abode, special vessels, and special ministers to be appointed for the divine worship, so that
thereby the soul of man might be brought to greater reverence for God.

In like manner the state of the Old Law, as observed above (A. 2; Q. 100, A. 12; Q. 101, A.
2), was instituted that it might foreshadow the mystery of Christ. Now that which foreshadows
something should be determinate, so that it may present some likeness thereto. Consequently,
certain special points had to be observed in matters pertaining to the worship of God.

Reply Obj. 1: The divine worship regards two things: namely, God Who is worshipped; and men,
who worship Him. Accordingly God, Who is worshipped, is confined to no bodily place: wherefore
there was no need, on His part, for a tabernacle or temple to be set up. But men, who worship
Him, are corporeal beings: and for their sake there was need for a special tabernacle or temple
to be set up for the worship of God, for two reasons. First, that through coming together with
the thought that the place was set aside for the worship of God, they might approach thither
with greater reverence. Secondly, that certain things relating to the excellence of Christ's
Divine or human nature might be signified by the arrangement of various details in such temple
or tabernacle.

To this Solomon refers (3 Kings 8:27) when he says: "If heaven and the heavens of heavens cannot
contain Thee, how much less this house which I have built" for Thee? And further on (3 Kings
8:29, 20) he adds: "That Thy eyes may be open upon this house . . . of which Thou hast said:
My name shall be there; . . . that Thou mayest hearken to the supplication of Thy servant and
of Thy people Israel." From this it is evident that the house of the sanctuary was set up,
not in order to contain God, as abiding therein locally, but that God might be made known there
by means of things done and said there; and that those who prayed there might, through reverence
for the place, pray more devoutly, so as to be heard more readily.

Reply Obj. 2: Before the coming of Christ, the state of the Old Law was not changed as regards
the fulfilment of the Law, which was effected in Christ alone: but it was changed as regards
the condition of the people that were under the Law. Because, at first, the people were in
the desert, having no fixed abode: afterwards they were engaged in various wars with the neighboring
nations; and lastly, at the time of David and Solomon, the state of that people was one of
great peace. And then for the first time the temple was built in the place which Abraham, instructed
by God, had chosen for the purpose of sacrifice. For it is written (Gen. 22:2) that the Lord
commanded Abraham to "offer" his son "for a holocaust upon one of the mountains which I will
show thee": and it is related further on (Gen. 22:14) that "he calleth the name of that place,
The Lord seeth," as though, according to the Divine prevision, that place were chosen for the
worship of God. Hence it is written (Deut. 12:5, 6): "You shall come to the place which the
Lord your God shall choose . . . and you shall offer . . . your holocausts and victims."

Now it was not meet for that place to be pointed out by the building of the temple before the
aforesaid time; for three reasons assigned by Rabbi Moses. First, lest the Gentiles might seize
hold of that place. Secondly, lest the Gentiles might destroy it. The third reason is lest
each tribe might wish that place to fall to their lot, and strifes and quarrels be the result.
Hence the temple was not built until they had a king who would be able to quell such quarrels.
Until that time a portable tabernacle was employed for divine worship, no place being as yet
fixed for the worship of God. This is the literal reason for the distinction between the tabernacle
and the temple.

The figurative reason may be assigned to the fact that they signify a twofold state. For the
tabernacle, which was changeable, signifies the state of the present changeable life: whereas
the temple, which was fixed and stable, signifies the state of future life which is altogether
unchangeable. For this reason it is said that in the building of the temple no sound was heard
of hammer or saw, to signify that all movements of disturbance will be far removed from the
future state. Or else the tabernacle signifies the state of the Old Law; while the temple built
by Solomon betokens the state of the New Law. Hence the Jews alone worked at the building of
the tabernacle; whereas the temple was built with the cooperation of the Gentiles, viz. the
Tyrians and Sidonians.

Reply Obj. 3: The reason for the unity of the temple or tabernacle may be either literal or
figurative. The literal reason was the exclusion of idolatry. For the Gentiles put up various
temples to various gods: and so, to strengthen in the minds of men their belief in the unity
of the Godhead, God wished sacrifices to be offered to Him in one place only. Another reason
was in order to show that bodily worship is not acceptable of itself: and so they restrained
from offering sacrifices anywhere and everywhere. But the worship of the New Law, in the sacrifice
whereof spiritual grace is contained, is of itself acceptable to God; and consequently the
multiplication of altars and temples is permitted in the New Law.

As to those matters that regarded the spiritual worship of God, consisting in the teaching
of the Law and the Prophets, there were, even under the Old Law, various places, called synagogues,
appointed for the people to gather together for the praise of God; just as now there are places
called churches in which the Christian people gather together for the divine worship. Thus
our church takes the place of both temple and synagogue: since the very sacrifice of the Church
is spiritual; wherefore with us the place of sacrifice is not distinct from the place of teaching.
The figurative reason may be that hereby is signified the unity of the Church, whether militant
or triumphant.

Reply Obj. 4: Just as the unity of the temple or tabernacle betokened the unity of God, or
the unity of the Church, so also the division of the tabernacle or temple signified the distinction
of those things that are subject to God, and from which we arise to the worship of God. Now
the tabernacle was divided into two parts: one was called the "Holy of Holies," and was placed
to the west; the other was called the "Holy Place" [*Or 'Sanctuary'. The Douay version uses
both expressions], which was situated to the east. Moreover there was a court facing the tabernacle.
Accordingly there are two reasons for this distinction. One is in respect of the tabernacle
being ordained to the worship of God. Because the different parts of the world are thus betokened
by the division of the tabernacle. For that part which was called the Holy of Holies signified
the higher world, which is that of spiritual substances: while that part which is called the
Holy Place signified the corporeal world. Hence the Holy Place was separated from the Holy
of Holies by a veil, which was of four different colors (denoting the four elements), viz.
of linen, signifying earth, because linen, i.e. flax, grows out of the earth; purple, signifying
water, because the purple tint was made from certain shells found in the sea; violet, signifying
air, because it has the color of the air; and scarlet twice dyed, signifying fire: and this
because matter composed of the four elements is a veil between us and incorporeal substances.
Hence the high-priest alone, and that once a year, entered into the inner tabernacle, i.e.
the Holy of Holies: whereby we are taught that man's final perfection consists in his entering
into that (higher) world: whereas into the outward tabernacle, i.e. the Holy Place, the priests
entered every day: whereas the people were only admitted to the court; because the people were
able to perceived material things, the inner nature of which only wise men by dint of study
are able to discover.

But with regard to the figurative reason, the outward tabernacle, which was called the Holy
Place, betokened the state of the Old Law, as the Apostle says (Heb. 9:6, seqq.): because into
that tabernacle "the priests always entered accomplishing the offices of sacrifices." But the
inner tabernacle, which was called the Holy of Holies, signified either the glory of heaven
or the spiritual state of the New Law to come. To the latter state Christ brought us; and this
was signified by the high-priest entering alone, once a year, into the Holy of Holies. The
veil betokened the concealing of the spiritual sacrifices under the sacrifices of old. This
veil was adorned with four colors: viz. that of linen, to designate purity of the flesh; purple,
to denote the sufferings which the saints underwent for God; scarlet twice dyed, signifying
the twofold love of God and our neighbor; and violet, in token of heavenly contemplation. With
regard to the state of the Old Law the people and the priests were situated differently from
one another. For the people saw the mere corporeal sacrifices which were offered in the court:
whereas the priests were intent on the inner meaning of the sacrifices, because their faith
in the mysteries of Christ was more explicit. Hence they entered into the outer tabernacle.
This outer tabernacle was divided from the court by a veil; because some matters relating to
the mystery of Christ were hidden from the people, while they were known to the priests: though
they were not fully revealed to them, as they were subsequently in the New Testament (cf. Eph.
3:5).

Reply Obj. 5: Worship towards the west was introduced in the Law to the exclusion of idolatry:
because all the Gentiles, in reverence to the sun, worshipped towards the east; hence it is
written (Ezech. 8:16) that certain men "had their backs towards the temple of the Lord, and
their faces to the east, and they adored towards the rising of the sun." Accordingly, in order
to prevent this, the tabernacle had the Holy of Holies to westward, that they might adore toward
the west. A figurative reason may also be found in the fact that the whole state of the first
tabernacle was ordained to foreshadow the death of Christ, which is signified by the west,
according to Ps. 67:5: "Who ascendeth unto the west; the Lord is His name."

Reply Obj. 6: Both literal and figurative reasons may be assigned for the things contained
in the tabernacle. The literal reason is in connection with the divine worship. "the ark of
the testament in which was a golden pot that had manna, and the rod of Aaron that had blossomed,
and the tables" (Heb. 9:4) on which were written the ten commandments of the Law. Now the ark
stood between two "cherubim" that looked one towards the other: and over the ark was a table,
called the "propitiatory," raised above the wings of the cherubim, as though it were held up
by them; and appearing, to the imagination, to be the very seat of God. For this reason it
was called the "propitiatory," as though the people received propitiation thence at the prayers
of the high-priest. And so it was held up, so to speak, by the cherubim, in obedience, as it
were, to God: while the ark of the testament was like the foot-stool to Him that sat on the
propitiatory. These three things denote three things in that higher world: namely, God Who
is above all, and incomprehensible to any creature. Hence no likeness of Him was set up; to
denote His invisibility. But there was something to represent his seat; since, to wit, the
creature, which is beneath God, as the seat under the sitter, is comprehensible. Again in that
higher world there are spiritual substances called angels. These are signified by the two cherubim,
looking one towards the other, to show that they are at peace with one another, according to
Job 25:2: "Who maketh peace in . . . high places." For this reason, too, there was more than
one cherub, to betoken the multitude of heavenly spirits, and to prevent their receiving worship
from those who had been commanded to worship but one God. Moreover there are, enclosed as it
were in that spiritual world, the intelligible types of whatsoever takes place in this world,
just as in every cause are enclosed the types of its effects, and in the craftsman the types
of the works of his craft. This was betokened by the ark, which represented, by means of the
three things it contained, the three things of greatest import in human affairs. These are
wisdom, signified by the tables of the testament; the power of governing, betokened by the
rod of Aaron; and life, betokened by the manna which was the means of sustenance. Or else these
three things signified the three Divine attributes, viz. wisdom, in the tables; power, in the
rod; goodness, in the manna--both by reason of its sweetness, and because it was through the
goodness of God that it was granted to man, wherefore it was preserved as a memorial of the
Divine mercy. Again, these three things were represented in Isaias' vision. For he "saw the
Lord sitting upon a throne high and elevated"; and the seraphim standing by; and that the house
was filled with the glory of the Lord; wherefrom the seraphim cried out: "All the earth is
full of His glory" (Isa. 6:1, 3). And so the images of the seraphim were set up, not to be
worshipped, for this was forbidden by the first commandment; but as a sign of their function,
as stated above.

The outer tabernacle, which denotes this present world, also contained three things, viz. the
"altar of incense," which was directly opposite the ark; the "table of proposition," with the
twelve loaves of proposition on it, which stood on the northern side; and the "candlestick,"
which was placed towards the south. These three things seem to correspond to the three which
were enclosed in the ark; and they represented the same things as the latter, but more clearly:
because, in order that wise men, denoted by the priests entering the temple, might grasp the
meaning of these types, it was necessary to express them more manifestly than they are in the
Divine or angelic mind. Accordingly the candlestick betokened, as a sensible sign thereof,
the wisdom which was expressed on the tables (of the Law) in intelligible words. The altar
of incense signified the office of the priest, whose duty it was to bring the people to God:
and this was signified also by the rod: because on that altar the sweet-smelling incense was
burnt, signifying the holiness of the people acceptable to God: for it is written (Apoc. 8:3)
that the smoke of the sweet-smelling spices signifies the "justifications of the saints" (cf.
Apoc. 19:8). Moreover it was fitting that the dignity of the priesthood should be denoted,
in the ark, by the rod, and, in the outer tabernacle, by the altar of incense: because the
priest is the mediator between God and the people, governing the people by Divine power, denoted
by the rod; and offering to God the fruit of His government, i.e. the holiness of the people,
on the altar of incense, so to speak. The table signified the sustenance of life, just as the
manna did: but the former, a more general and a coarser kind of nourishment; the latter, a
sweeter and more delicate. Again, the candlestick was fittingly placed on the southern side,
while the table was placed to the north: because the south is the right-hand side of the world,
while the north is the left-hand side, as stated in De Coelo et Mundo ii; and wisdom, like
other spiritual goods, belongs to the right hand, while temporal nourishment belongs on the
left, according to Prov. 3:16: "In her left hand (are) riches and glory." And the priestly
power is midway between temporal goods and spiritual wisdom; because thereby both spiritual
wisdom and temporal goods are dispensed.

Another literal signification may be assigned. For the ark contained the tables of the Law,
in order to prevent forgetfulness of the Law, wherefore it is written (Ex. The rod of Aaron
was placed there to restrain the people from insubordination to the priesthood of Aaron; wherefore
it is written (Num. 17:10): "Carry back the rod of Aaron into the tabernacle of the testimony,
that it may be kept there for a token of the rebellious children of Israel." The manna was
kept in the ark to remind them of the benefit conferred by God on the children of Israel in
the desert; wherefore it is written (Ex. 16:32): "Fill a gomor of it, and let it be kept unto
generations to come hereafter, that they may know the bread wherewith I fed you in the wilderness."
The candlestick was set up to enhance the beauty of the temple, for the magnificence of a house
depends on its being well lighted. Now the candlestick had seven branches, as Josephus observes
(Antiquit. iii, 7, 8), to signify the seven planets, wherewith the whole world is illuminated.
Hence the candlestick was placed towards the south; because for us the course of the planets
is from that quarter. The altar of incense was instituted that there might always be in the
tabernacle a sweet-smelling smoke; both through respect for the tabernacle, and as a remedy
for the stenches arising from the shedding of blood and the slaying of animals. For men despise
evil-smelling things as being vile, whereas sweet-smelling things are much appreciated. The
table was placed there to signify that the priests who served the temple should take their
food in the temple: wherefore, as stated in Matt. 12:4, it was lawful for none but the priests
to eat the twelve loaves which were put on the table in memory of the twelve tribes. And the
table was not placed in the middle directly in front of the propitiatory, in order to exclude
an idolatrous rite: for the Gentiles, on the feasts of the moon, set up a table in front of
the idol of the moon, wherefore it is written (Jer.

In the court outside the tabernacle was the altar of holocausts, on which sacrifices of those
things which the people possessed were offered to God: and consequently the people who offered
these sacrifices to God by the hands of the priest could be present in the court. But the priests
alone, whose function it was to offer the people to God, could approach the inner altar, whereon
the very devotion and holiness of the people was offered to God. And this altar was put up
outside the tabernacle and in the court, to the exclusion of idolatrous worship: for the Gentiles
placed altars inside the temples to offer up sacrifices thereon to idols.

The figurative reason for all these things may be taken from the relation of the tabernacle
to Christ, who was foreshadowed therein. Now it must be observed that to show the imperfection
of the figures of the Law, various figures were instituted in the temple to betoken Christ.
For He was foreshadowed by the "propitiatory," since He is "a propitiation for our sins" (1
John 2:2). This propitiatory was fittingly carried by cherubim, since of Him it is written
(Heb. 1:6): "Let all the angels of God adore Him." He is also signified by the ark: because
just as the ark was made of setim-wood, so was Christ's body composed of most pure members.
More over it was gilded: for Christ was full of wisdom and charity, which are betokened by
gold. And in the ark was a golden pot, i.e. His holy soul, having manna, i.e. "all the fulness
of the Godhead" (Col. 2:9). Also there was a rod in the ark, i.e. His priestly power: for "He
was made a . . . priest for ever" (Heb. 6:20). And therein were the tables of the Testament,
to denote that Christ Himself is a lawgiver. Again, Christ was signified by the candlestick,
for He said Himself (John 8:12): "I am the Light of the world"; while the seven lamps denoted
the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost. He is also betokened in the table, because He is our spiritual
food, according to John 6:41, 51: "I am the living bread": and the twelve loaves signified
the twelve apostles, or their teaching. Or again, the candlestick and table may signify the
Church's teaching, and faith, which also enlightens and refreshes. Again, Christ is signified
by the two altars of holocausts and incense. Because all works of virtue must be offered to
us to God through Him; both those whereby we afflict the body, which are offered, as it were,
on the altar of holocausts; and those which, with greater perfection of mind, are offered to
God in Christ, by the spiritual desires of the perfect, on the altar of incense, as it were,
according to Heb. 13:15: "By Him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise always to God."

Reply Obj. 7: The Lord commanded an altar to be made for the offering of sacrifices and gifts,
in honor of God, and for the upkeep of the ministers who served the tabernacle. Now concerning
the construction of the altar the Lord issued a twofold precept. One was at the beginning of
the Law (Ex. 20:24, seqq.) when the Lord commanded them to make "an altar of earth," or at
least "not of hewn stones"; and again, not to make the altar high, so as to make it necessary
to "go up" to it "by steps." This was in detestation of idolatrous worship: for the Gentiles
made their altars ornate and high, thinking that there was something holy and divine in such
things. For this reason, too, the Lord commanded (Deut. 16:21): "Thou shalt plant no grove,
nor any tree near the altar of the Lord thy God": since idolaters were wont to offer sacrifices
beneath trees, on account of the pleasantness and shade afforded by them. There was also a
figurative reason for these precepts. Because we must confess that in Christ, Who is our altar,
there is the true nature of flesh, as regards His humanity--and this is to make an altar of
earth; and again, in regard to His Godhead, we must confess His equality with the Father--and
this is "not to go up" to the altar by steps. Moreover we should not couple the doctrine of
Christ to that of the Gentiles, which provokes men to lewdness.

But when once the tabernacle had been constructed to the honor of God, there was no longer
reason to fear these occasions of idolatry. Wherefore the Lord commanded the altar of holocausts
to be made of brass, and to be conspicuous to all the people; and the altar of incense, which
was visible to none but the priests. Nor was brass so precious as to give the people an occasion
for idolatry.

Since, however, the reason for the precept, "Thou shalt not go up by steps unto My altar" (Ex.
20:26) is stated to have been "lest thy nakedness be discovered," it should be observed that
this too was instituted with the purpose of preventing idolatry, for in the feasts of Priapus
the Gentiles uncovered their nakedness before the people. But later on the priests were prescribed
the use of loin-cloths for the sake of decency: so that without any danger the altar could
be placed so high that the priests when offering sacrifices would go up by steps of wood, not
fixed but movable.

Reply Obj. 8: The body of the tabernacle consisted of boards placed on end, and covered on
the inside with curtains of four different colors, viz. twisted linen, violet, purple, and
scarlet twice dyed. These curtains, however, covered the sides only of the tabernacle; and
the roof of the tabernacle was covered with violet-colored skins; and over this there was another
covering of rams' skins dyed red; and over this there was a third curtain made of goats' hair,
which covered not only the roof of the tabernacle, but also reached to the ground and covered
the boards of the tabernacle on the outside. The literal reason of these coverings taken altogether
was the adornment and protection of the tabernacle, that it might be an object of respect.
Taken singly, according to some, the curtains denoted the starry heaven, which is adorned with
various stars; the curtain (of goats' skin) signified the waters which are above the firmament;
the skins dyed red denoted the empyrean heaven, where the angels are; the violet skins, the
heaven of the Blessed Trinity.

The figurative meaning of these things is that the boards of which the tabernacle was constructed
signify the faithful of Christ, who compose the Church. The boards were covered on the inner
side by curtains of four colors: because the faithful are inwardly adorned with the four virtues:
for "the twisted linen," as the gloss observes, "signifies the flesh refulgent with purity;
violet signifies the mind desirous of heavenly things; purple denotes the flesh subject to
passions; the twice dyed scarlet betokens the mind in the midst of the passions enlightened
by the love of God and our neighbor." The coverings of the building designate prelates and
doctors, who ought to be conspicuous for their heavenly manner of life, signified by the violet
colored skins: and who should also be ready to suffer martyrdom, denoted by the skins dyed
red; and austere of life and patient in adversity, betokened by the curtains of goats' hair,
which were exposed to wind and rain, as the gloss observes.

Reply Obj. 9: The literal reason for the sanctification of the tabernacle and vessels was that
they might be treated with greater reverence, being deputed, as it were, to the divine worship
by this consecration. The figurative reason is that this sanctification signified the sanctification
of the living tabernacle, i.e. the faithful of whom the Church of Christ is composed.

Reply Obj. 10: Under the Old Law there were seven temporal solemnities, and one continual solemnity,
as may be gathered from Num. 28, 29. There was a continual feast, since the lamb was sacrificed
every day, morning and evening: and this continual feast of an abiding sacrifice signified
the perpetuity of Divine bliss. Of the temporal feasts the first was that which was repeated
every week. This was the solemnity of the "Sabbath," celebrated in memory of the work of the
creation of the universe. Another solemnity, viz. the "New Moon," was repeated every month,
and was observed in memory of the work of the Divine government. For the things of this lower
world owe their variety chiefly to the movement of the moon; wherefore this feast was kept
at the new moon: and not at the full moon, to avoid the worship of idolaters who used to offer
sacrifices to the moon at that particular time. And these two blessings are bestowed in common
on the whole human race; and hence they were repeated more frequently.

The other five feasts were celebrated once a year: and they commemorated the benefits which
had been conferred especially on that people. For there was the feast of the "Passover" in
the first month to commemorate the blessing of being delivered out of Egypt. The feast of "Pentecost"
was celebrated fifty days later, to recall the blessing of the giving of the Law. The other
three feasts were kept in the seventh month, nearly the whole of which was solemnized by them,
just as the seventh day. For on the first of the seventh month was the feast of "Trumpets,"
in memory of the delivery of Isaac, when Abraham found the ram caught by its horns, which they
represented by the horns which they blew. The feast of Trumpets was a kind of invitation whereby
they prepared themselves to keep the following feast which was kept on the tenth day. This
was the feast of "Expiation," in memory of the blessing whereby, at the prayer of Moses, God
forgave the people's sin of worshipping the calf. After this was the feast of "Scenopegia"
or of "Tents," which was kept for seven days, to commemorate the blessing of being protected
and led by God through the desert, where they lived in tents. Hence during this feast they
had to take "the fruits of the fairest tree," i.e. the citron, "and the trees of dense foliage"
[*Douay and A. V. and R. V. read: 'Boughs of thick trees'], i.e. the myrtle, which is fragrant,
"and the branches of palm-trees, and willows of the brook," which retain their greenness a
long time; and these are to be found in the Land of promise; to signify that God had brought
them through the arid land of the wilderness to a land of delights. On the eighth day another
feast was observed, of "Assembly and Congregation," on which the people collected the expenses
necessary for the divine worship: and it signified the uniting of the people and the peace
granted to them in the Land of promise.

The figurative reason for these feasts was that the continual sacrifice of the lamb foreshadowed
the perpetuity of Christ, Who is the "Lamb of God," according to Heb. 13:8: "Jesus Christ yesterday
and today, and the same for ever." The Sabbath signified the spiritual rest bestowed by Christ,
as stated in Heb. 4. The Neomenia, which is the beginning of the new moon, signified the enlightening
of the primitive Church by Christ's preaching and miracles. The feast of Pentecost signified
the Descent of the Holy Ghost on the apostles. The feast of Trumpets signified the preaching
of the apostles. The feast of Expiation signified the cleansing of the Christian people from
sins: and the feast of Tabernacles signified their pilgrimage in this world, wherein they walk
by advancing in virtue. The feast of Assembly or Congregation foreshadowed the assembly of
the faithful in the kingdom of heaven: wherefore this feast is described as "most holy" (Lev.
23:36). These three feasts followed immediately on one another, because those who expiate their
vices should advance in virtue, until they come to see God, as stated in Ps. 83:8.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 102, Art. 5]

Whether There Can Be Any Suitable Cause for the Sacraments of the Old Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that there can be no suitable cause for the sacraments of the Old
Law. Because those things that are done for the purpose of divine worship should not be like
the observances of idolaters: since it is written (Deut. 12:31): "Thou shalt not do in like
manner to the Lord thy God: for they have done to their gods all the abominations which the
Lord abhorreth." Now worshippers of idols used to knive themselves to the shedding of blood:
for it is related (3 Kings 18:28) that they "cut themselves after their manner with knives
and lancets, till they were all covered with blood." For this reason the Lord commanded (Deut.
14:1): "You shall not cut yourselves nor make any baldness for the dead." Therefore it was
unfitting for circumcision to be prescribed by the Law (Lev. 12:3).

Obj. 2: Further, those things which are done for the worship of God should be marked with decorum
and gravity; according to Ps. 34:18: "I will praise Thee in a grave [Douay: 'strong'] people."
But it seems to savor of levity for a man to eat with haste. Therefore it was unfittingly commanded
(Ex. 12:11) that they should eat the Paschal lamb "in haste." Other things too relative to
the eating of the lamb were prescribed, which seem altogether unreasonable.

Obj. 3: Further, the sacraments of the Old Law were figures of the sacraments of the New Law.
Now the Paschal lamb signified the sacrament of the Eucharist, according to 1 Cor. 5:7: "Christ
our Pasch is sacrificed." Therefore there should also have been some sacraments of the Old
Law to foreshadow the other sacraments of the New Law, such as Confirmation, Extreme Unction,
and Matrimony, and so forth.

Obj. 4: Further, purification can scarcely be done except by removing something impure. (1
Tim. 4:4). It was therefore unfitting for them to be purified after contact with a corpse,
or any similar corporeal infection.

Obj. 5: Further, it is written (Ecclus. 34:4): "What can be made clean by the unclean?" But
the ashes of the red heifer [*Cf. Heb. 9:13] which was burnt, were unclean, since they made
a man unclean: for it is stated (Num. 19:7, seqq.) that the priest who immolated her was rendered
unclean "until the evening"; likewise he that burnt her; and he that gathered up her ashes.
Therefore it was unfittingly prescribed there that the unclean should be purified by being
sprinkled with those cinders.

Obj. 6: Further, sins are not something corporeal that can be carried from one place to another:
nor can man be cleansed from sin by means of something unclean. It was therefore unfitting
for the purpose of expiating the sins of the people that the priest should confess the sins
of the children of Israel on one of the buck-goats, that it might carry them away into the
wilderness: while they were rendered unclean by the other, which they used for the purpose
of purification, by burning it together with the calf outside the camp; so that they had to
wash their clothes and their bodies with water (Lev. 16).

Obj. 7: Further, what is already cleansed should not be cleansed again. It was therefore unfitting
to apply a second purification to a man cleansed from leprosy, or to a house; as laid down
in Lev. 14.

Obj. 8: Further, spiritual uncleanness cannot be cleansed by material water or by shaving the
hair. Therefore it seems unreasonable that the Lord ordered (Ex. 30:18, seqq.) the making of
a brazen laver with its foot, that the priests might wash their hands and feet before entering
the temple; and that He commanded (Num. 8:7) the Levites to be sprinkled with the water of
purification, and to shave all the hairs of their flesh.

Objection 9: Further, that which is greater cannot be cleansed by that which is less. Therefore
it was unfitting that, in the Law, the higher and lower priests, as stated in Lev. 8 [*Cf.
Ex. 29], and the Levites, according to Num. 8, should be consecrated with any bodily anointing,
bodily sacrifices, and bodily oblations. But those things that appear outwardly in man are
the dispositions of his body and his clothes. Therefore it was unfitting for certain special
garments to be appointed to the higher and lower priests, as related in Ex. 28 [*Cf. Lev. 8:7,
seqq.]. It seems, moreover, unreasonable that anyone should be debarred from the priesthood
on account of defects in the body, as stated in Lev. 21:17, seqq.: "Whosoever of thy seed throughout
their families, hath a blemish, he shall not offer bread to his God . . . if he be blind, if
he be lame," etc. It seems, therefore, that the sacraments of the Old Law were unreasonable.

On the contrary, It is written (Lev. 20:8): "I am the Lord that sanctify you." But nothing
unreasonable is done by God, for it is written (Ps. 103:24): "Thou hast made all things in
wisdom." Therefore there was nothing without a reasonable cause in the sacraments of the Old
Law, which were ordained to the sanctification of man.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 101, A. 4), the sacraments are, properly speaking, things
applied to the worshippers of God for their consecration so as, in some way, to depute them
to the worship of God. Now the worship of God belonged in a general way to the whole people;
but in a special way, it belonged to the priests and Levites, who were the ministers of divine
worship. Consequently, in these sacraments of the Old Law, certain things concerned the whole
people in general; while others belonged to the ministers.

In regard to both, three things were necessary. The first was to be established in the state
of worshipping God: and this institution was brought about--for all in general, by circumcision,
without which no one was admitted to any of the legal observances--and for the priests, by
their consecration. The second thing required was the use of those things that pertain to divine
worship. And thus, as to the people, there was the partaking of the paschal banquet, to which
no uncircumcised man was admitted, as is clear from Ex. 12:43, seqq.: and, as to the priests,
the offering of the victims, and the eating of the loaves of proposition and of other things
that were allotted to the use of the priests. The third thing required was the removal of all
impediments to divine worship, viz. of uncleannesses. And then, as to the people, certain purifications
were instituted for the removal of certain external uncleannesses; and also expiations from
sins; while, as to the priests and Levites, the washing of hands and feet and the shaving of
the hair were instituted.

And all these things had reasonable causes, both literal, in so far as they were ordained to
the worship of God for the time being, and figurative, in so far as they were ordained to foreshadow
Christ: as we shall see by taking them one by one.

Reply Obj. 1: The chief literal reason for circumcision was in order that man might profess
his belief in one God. And because Abraham was the first to sever himself from the infidels,
by going out from his house and kindred, for this reason he was the first to receive circumcision.
This reason is set forth by the Apostle (Rom. 4:9, seqq.) thus: "He received the sign of circumcision,
a seal of the justice of the faith which he had, being uncircumcised"; because, to wit, we
are told that "unto Abraham faith was reputed to justice," for the reason that "against hope
he believed in hope," i.e. against the hope that is of nature he believed in the hope that
is of grace, "that he might be made the father of many nations," when he was an old man, and
his wife an old and barren woman. And in order that this declaration, and imitation of Abraham's
faith, might be fixed firmly in the hearts of the Jews, they received in their flesh such a
sign as they could not forget, wherefore it is written (Gen. 17:13): "My covenant shall be
in your flesh for a perpetual covenant." This was done on the eighth day, because until then
a child is very tender, and so might be seriously injured; and is considered as something not
yet consolidated: wherefore neither are animals offered before the eighth day. And it was not
delayed after that time, lest some might refuse the sign of circumcision on account of the
pain: and also lest the parents, whose love for their children increases as they become used
to their presence and as they grow older, should withdraw their children from circumcision.
A second reason may have been the weakening of concupiscence in that member. A third motive
may have been to revile the worship of Venus and Priapus, which gave honor to that part of
the body. The Lord's prohibition extended only to the cutting of oneself in honor of idols:
and such was not the circumcision of which we have been speaking.

The figurative reason for circumcision was that it foreshadowed the removal of corruption,
which was to be brought about by Christ, and will be perfectly fulfilled in the eighth age,
which is the age of those who rise from the dead. And since all corruption of guilt and punishment
comes to us through our carnal origin, from the sin of our first parent, therefore circumcision
was applied to the generative member. Hence the Apostle says (Col. 2:11): "You are circumcised"
in Christ "with circumcision not made by hand in despoiling of the body of the flesh, but in
the circumcision of" Our Lord Jesus "Christ."

Reply Obj. 2: The literal reason of the paschal banquet was to commemorate the blessing of
being led by God out of Egypt. Hence by celebrating this banquet they declared that they belonged
to that people which God had taken to Himself out of Egypt. For when they were delivered from
Egypt, they were commanded to sprinkle the lamb's blood on the transoms of their house doors,
as though declaring that they were averse to the rites of the Egyptians who worshipped the
ram. Wherefore they were delivered by the sprinkling or rubbing of the blood of the lamb on
the door-posts, from the danger of extermination which threatened the Egyptians.

Now two things are to be observed in their departure from Egypt: namely, their haste in going,
for the Egyptians pressed them to go forth speedily, as related in Ex. 12:33; and there was
danger that anyone who did not hasten to go with the crowd might be slain by the Egyptians.
Their haste was shown in two ways. First by what they ate. For they were commanded to eat unleavened
bread, as a sign "that it could not be leavened, the Egyptians pressing them to depart"; and
to eat roast meat, for this took less time to prepare; and that they should not break a bone
thereof, because in their haste there was no time to break bones. Secondly, as to the manner
of eating. For it is written: "You shall gird your reins, and you shall have shoes on your
feet, holding staves in your hands, and you shall eat in haste": which clearly designates men
at the point of starting on a journey. To this also is to be referred the command: "In one
house shall it be eaten, neither shall you carry forth of the flesh thereof out of the house":
because, to wit, on account of their haste, they could not send any gifts of it.

The stress they suffered while in Egypt was denoted by the wild lettuces. The figurative reason
is evident, because the sacrifice of the paschal lamb signified the sacrifice of Christ according
to 1 Cor. 5:7: "Christ our pasch is sacrificed." The blood of the lamb, which ensured deliverance
from the destroyer, by being sprinkled on the ransoms, signified faith in Christ's Passion,
in the hearts and on the lips of the faithful, by which same Passion we are delivered from
sin and death, according to 1 Pet. 1:18: "You were . . . redeemed . . . with the precious blood
. . . of a lamb unspotted." The partaking of its flesh signified the eating of Christ's body
in the Sacrament; and the flesh was roasted at the fire to signify Christ's Passion or charity.
And it was eaten with unleavened bread to signify the blameless life of the faithful who partake
of Christ's body, according to 1 Cor. 5:8: "Let us feast . . . with the unleavened bread of
sincerity and truth." The wild lettuces were added to denote repentance for sins, which is
required of those who receive the body of Christ. Their loins were girt in sign of chastity:
and the shoes of their feet are the examples of our dead ancestors. The staves they were to
hold in their hands denoted pastoral authority: and it was commanded that the paschal lamb
should be eaten in one house, i.e. in a catholic church, and not in the conventicles of heretics.

Reply Obj. 3: Some of the sacraments of the New Law had corresponding figurative sacraments
in the Old Law. For Baptism, which is the sacrament of Faith, corresponds to circumcision.
Hence it is written (Col. 2:11, 12): "You are circumcised . . . in the circumcision of" Our
Lord Jesus "Christ: buried with Him in Baptism." In the New Law the sacrament of the Eucharist
corresponds to the banquet of the paschal lamb. The sacrament of Penance in the New Law corresponds
to all the purifications of the Old Law. The sacrament of Orders corresponds to the consecration
of the pontiff and of the priests. To the sacrament of Confirmation, which is the sacrament
of the fulness of grace, there would be no corresponding sacrament of the Old Law, because
the time of fulness had not yet come, since "the Law brought no man [Vulg.: 'nothing'] to perfection"
(Heb. 7:19). The same applies to the sacrament of Extreme Unction, which is an immediate preparation
for entrance into glory, to which the way was not yet opened out in the Old Law, since the
price had not yet been paid. Matrimony did indeed exist under the Old Law, as a function of
nature, but not as the sacrament of the union of Christ with the Church, for that union was
not as yet brought about. Hence under the Old Law it was allowable to give a bill of divorce,
which is contrary to the nature of the sacrament.

Reply Obj. 4: As already stated, the purifications of the Old Law were ordained for the removal
of impediments to the divine worship: which worship is twofold; viz. spiritual, consisting
in devotion of the mind to God; and corporal, consisting in sacrifices, oblations, and so forth.
Now men are hindered in the spiritual worship by sins, whereby men were said to be polluted,
for instance, by idolatry, murder, adultery, or incest. From such pollutions men were purified
by certain sacrifices, offered either for the whole community in general, or also for the sins
of individuals; not that those carnal sacrifices had of themselves the power of expiating sin;
but that they signified that expiation of sins which was to be effected by Christ, and of which
those of old became partakers by protesting their faith in the Redeemer, while taking part
in the figurative sacrifices.

The impediments to external worship consisted in certain bodily uncleannesses; which were considered
in the first place as existing in man, and consequently in other animals also, and in man's
clothes, dwelling-place, and vessels. In man himself uncleanness was considered as arising
partly from himself and partly from contact with unclean things. Anything proceeding from man
was reputed unclean that was already subject to corruption, or exposed thereto: and consequently
since death is a kind of corruption, the human corpse was considered unclean. In like manner,
since leprosy arises from corruption of the humors, which break out externally and infect other
persons, therefore were lepers also considered unclean; and, again, women suffering from a
flow of blood, whether from weakness, or from nature (either at the monthly course or at the
time of conception); and, for the same reason, men were reputed unclean if they suffered from
a flow of seed, whether due to weakness, to nocturnal pollution, or to sexual intercourse.
Because every humor issuing from man in the aforesaid ways involves some unclean infection.
Again, man contracted uncleanness by touching any unclean thing whatever.

Now there was both a literal and a figurative reason for these uncleannesses. The literal reason
was taken from the reverence due to those things that belong to the divine worship: both because
men are not wont, when unclean, to touch precious things: and in order that by rarely approaching
sacred things they might have greater respect for them. For since man could seldom avoid all
the aforesaid uncleannesses, the result was that men could seldom approach to touch things
belonging to the worship of God, so that when they did approach, they did so with greater reverence
and humility. Moreover, in some of these the literal reason was that men should not be kept
away from worshipping God through fear of coming in contact with lepers and others similarly
afflicted with loathsome and contagious diseases. In others, again, the reason was to avoid
idolatrous worship: because in their sacrificial rites the Gentiles sometimes employed human
blood and seed. All these bodily uncleannesses were purified either by the mere sprinkling
of water, or, in the case of those which were more grievous, by some sacrifice of expiation
for the sin which was the occasion of the uncleanness in question.

The figurative reason for these uncleannesses was that they were figures of various sins. For
the uncleanness of any corpse signifies the uncleanness of sin, which is the death of the soul.
The uncleanness of leprosy betokened the uncleanness of heretical doctrine: both because heretical
doctrine is contagious just as leprosy is, and because no doctrine is so false as not to have
some truth mingled with error, just as on the surface of a leprous body one may distinguish
the healthy parts from those that are infected. The uncleanness of a woman suffering from a
flow of blood denotes the uncleanness of idolatry, on account of the blood which is offered
up. The uncleanness of the man who has suffered seminal loss signifies the uncleanness of empty
words, for "the seed is the word of God." The uncleanness of sexual intercourse and of the
woman in child-birth signifies the uncleanness of original sin. The uncleanness of the woman
in her periods signifies the uncleanness of a mind that is sensualized by pleasure. Speaking
generally, the uncleanness contracted by touching an unclean thing denotes the uncleanness
arising from consent in another's sin, according to 2 Cor. 6:17: "Go out from among them, and
be ye separate . . . and touch not the unclean thing."

Moreover, this uncleanness arising from the touch was contracted even by inanimate objects;
for whatever was touched in any way by an unclean man, became itself unclean. Wherein the Law
attenuated the superstition of the Gentiles, who held that uncleanness was contracted not only
by touch, but also by speech or looks, as Rabbi Moses states (Doct. Perplex. iii) of a woman
in her periods. The mystical sense of this was that "to God the wicked and his wickedness are
hateful alike" (Wis. 14:9).

There was also an uncleanness of inanimate things considered in themselves, such as the uncleanness
of leprosy in a house or in clothes. For just as leprosy occurs in men through a corrupt humor
causing putrefaction and corruption in the flesh; so, too, through some corruption and excess
of humidity or dryness, there arises sometimes a kind of corruption in the stones with which
a house is built, or in clothes. Hence the Law called this corruption by the name of leprosy,
whereby a house or a garment was deemed to be unclean: both because all corruption savored
of uncleanness, as stated above, and because the Gentiles worshipped their household gods as
a preservative against this corruption. Hence the Law prescribed such houses, where this kind
of corruption was of a lasting nature, to be destroyed; and such garments to be burnt, in order
to avoid all occasion of idolatry. There was also an uncleanness of vessels, of which it is
written (Num. 19:15): "The vessel that hath no cover, and binding over it, shall be unclean."
The cause of this uncleanness was that anything unclean might easily drop into such vessels,
so as to render them unclean. Moreover, this command aimed at the prevention of idolatry. For
idolaters believed that if mice, lizards, or the like, which they used to sacrifice to the
idols, fell into the vessels or into the water, these became more pleasing to the gods. Even
now some women let down uncovered vessels in honor of the nocturnal deities which they call
"Janae."

The figurative reason of these uncleannesses is that the leprosy of a house signified the uncleanness
of the assembly of heretics; the leprosy of a linen garment signified an evil life arising
from bitterness of mind; the leprosy of a woolen garment denoted the wickedness of flatterers;
leprosy in the warp signified the vices of the soul; leprosy on the woof denoted sins of the
flesh, for as the warp is in the woof, so is the soul in the body. The vessel that has neither
cover nor binding, betokens a man who lacks the veil of taciturnity, and who is unrestrained
by any severity of discipline.

Reply Obj. 5: As stated above (ad 4), there was a twofold uncleanness in the Law; one by way
of corruption in the mind or in the body; and this was the graver uncleanness; the other was
by mere contact with an unclean thing, and this was less grave, and was more easily expiated.
Because the former uncleanness was expiated by sacrifices for sins, since all corruption is
due to sin, and signifies sin: whereas the latter uncleanness was expiated by the mere sprinkling
of a certain water, of which water we read in Num. 19. For there God commanded them to take
a red cow in memory of the sin they had committed in worshipping a calf. And a cow is mentioned
rather than a calf, because it was thus that the Lord was wont to designate the synagogue,
according to Osee 4:16: "Israel hath gone astray like a wanton heifer": and this was, perhaps,
because they worshipped heifers after the custom of Egypt, according to Osee 10:5: "(They)
have worshipped the kine of Bethaven." And in detestation of the sin of idolatry it was sacrificed
outside the camp; in fact, whenever sacrifice was offered up in expiation of the multitude
of sins, it was all burnt outside the camp. Moreover, in order to show that this sacrifice
cleansed the people from all their sins, "the priest" dipped "his finger in her blood," and
sprinkled "it over against the door of the tabernacle seven times"; for the number seven signified
universality. Further, the very sprinkling of blood pertained to the detestation of idolatry,
in which the blood that was offered up was not poured out, but was collected together, and
men gathered round it to eat in honor of the idols. Likewise it was burnt by fire, either because
God appeared to Moses in a fire, and the Law was given from the midst of fire; or to denote
that idolatry, together with all that was connected therewith, was to be extirpated altogether;
just as the cow was burnt "with her skin and her flesh, her blood and dung being delivered
to the flames." To this burning were added "cedar-wood, and hyssop, and scarlet twice dyed,"
to signify that just as cedar-wood is not liable to putrefaction, and scarlet twice dyed does
not easily lose its color, and hyssop retains its odor after it has been dried; so also was
this sacrifice for the preservation of the whole people, and for their good behavior and devotion.
Hence it is said of the ashes of the cow: "That they may be reserved for the multitude of the
children of Israel." Or, according to Josephus (Antiq. iii, 8, 9, 10), the four elements are
indicated here: for "cedar-wood" was added to the fire, to signify the earth, on account of
its earthiness; "hyssop," to signify the air, on account of its smell; "scarlet twice dyed,"
to signify water, for the same reason as purple, on account of the dyes which are taken out
of the water: thus denoting the fact that this sacrifice was offered to the Creator of the
four elements. And since this sacrifice was offered for the sin of idolatry, both "he that
burned her," and "he that gathered up the ashes," and "he that sprinkled the water" in which
the ashes were placed, were deemed unclean in detestation of that sin, in order to show that
whatever was in any way connected with idolatry should be cast aside as being unclean. From
this uncleanness they were purified by the mere washing of their clothes; nor did they need
to be sprinkled with the water on account of this kind of uncleanness, because otherwise the
process would have been unending, since he that sprinkled the water became unclean, so that
if he were to sprinkle himself he would remain unclean; and if another were to sprinkle him,
that one would have become unclean, and in like manner, whoever might sprinkle him, and so
on indefinitely.

The figurative reason of this sacrifice was that the red cow signified Christ in respect of
his assumed weakness, denoted by the female sex; while the color of the cow designated the
blood of His Passion. And the "red cow was of full age," because all Christ's works are perfect,
"in which there" was "no blemish"; "and which" had "not carried the yoke," because Christ was
innocent, nor did He carry the yoke of sin. It was commanded to be taken to Moses, because
they blamed Him for transgressing the law of Moses by breaking the Sabbath. And it was commanded
to be delivered "to Eleazar the priest," because Christ was delivered into the hands of the
priests to be slain. It was immolated "without the camp," because Christ "suffered outside
the gate" (Heb. 13:12). And the priest dipped "his finger in her blood," because the mystery
of Christ's Passion should be considered and imitated.

It was sprinkled "over against . . . the tabernacle," which denotes the synagogue, to signify
either the condemnation of the unbelieving Jews, or the purification of believers; and this
"seven times," in token either of the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost, or of the seven days wherein
all time is comprised. Again, all things that pertain to the Incarnation of Christ should be
burnt with fire, i.e. they should be understood spiritually; for the "skin" and "flesh" signified
Christ's outward works; the "blood" denoted the subtle inward force which quickened His external
deeds; the "dung" betokened His weariness, His thirst, and all such like things pertaining
to His weakness. Three things were added, viz. "cedar-wood," which denotes the height of hope
or contemplation; "hyssop," in token of humility or faith; "scarlet twice dyed," which denotes
twofold charity; for it is by these three that we should cling to Christ suffering. The ashes
of this burning were gathered by "a man that is clean," because the relics of the Passion came
into the possession of the Gentiles, who were not guilty of Christ's death. The ashes were
put into water for the purpose of expiation, because Baptism receives from Christ's Passion
the power of washing away sins. The priest who immolated and burned the cow, and he who burned,
and he who gathered together the ashes, were unclean, as also he that sprinkled the water:
either because the Jews became unclean through putting Christ to death, whereby our sins are
expiated; and this, until the evening, i.e. until the end of the world, when the remnants of
Israel will be converted; or else because they who handle sacred things with a view to the
cleansing of others contract certain uncleannesses, as Gregory says (Pastor. ii, 5); and this
until the evening, i.e. until the end of this life.

Reply Obj. 6: As stated above (ad 5), an uncleanness which was caused by corruption either
of mind or of body was expiated by sin-offerings. Now special sacrifices were wont to be offered
for the sins of individuals: but since some were neglectful about expiating such sins and uncleannesses;
or, through ignorance, failed to offer this expiation; it was laid down that once a year, on
the tenth day of the seventh month, a sacrifice of expiation should be offered for the whole
people. And because, as the Apostle says (Heb. 7:28), "the Law maketh men priests, who have
infirmity," it behooved the priest first of all to offer a calf for his own sins, in memory
of Aaron's sin in fashioning the molten calf; and besides, to offer a ram for a holocaust,
which signified that the priestly sovereignty denoted by the ram, who is the head of the flock,
was to be ordained to the glory of God. Then he offered two he-goats for the people: one of
which was offered in expiation of the sins of the multitude. For the he-goat is an evil-smelling
animal; and from its skin clothes are made having a pungent odor; to signify the stench, uncleanness
and the sting of sin. After this he-goat had been immolated, its blood was taken, together
with the blood of the calf, into the Holy of Holies, and the entire sanctuary was sprinkled
with it; to signify that the tabernacle was cleansed from the uncleanness of the children of
Israel. But the corpses of the he-goat and calf which had been offered up for sin had to be
burnt, to denote the destruction of sins. They were not, however, burnt on the altar: since
none but holocausts were burnt thereon; but it was prescribed that they should be burnt without
the camp, in detestation of sin: for this was done whenever sacrifice was offered for a grievous
sin, or for the multitude of sins. The other goat was let loose into the wilderness: not indeed
to offer it to the demons, whom the Gentiles worshipped in desert places, because it was unlawful
to offer aught to them; but in order to point out the effect of the sacrifice which had been
offered up. Hence the priest put his hand on its head, while confessing the sins of the children
of Israel: as though that goat were to carry them away into the wilderness, where it would
be devoured by wild beasts, because it bore the punishment of the people's sins. And it was
said to bear the sins of the people, either because the forgiveness of the people's sins was
signified by its being let loose, or because on its head written lists of sins were fastened.

The figurative reason of these things was that Christ was foreshadowed both by the calf, on
account of His power; and by the ram, because He is the Head of the faithful; and by the he-goat,
on account of "the likeness of sinful flesh" (Rom. 8:3). Moreover, Christ was sacrificed for
the sins of both priests and people: since both those of high and those of low degree are cleansed
from sin by His Passion. The blood of the calf and of the goat was brought into the Holies
by the priest, because the entrance to the kingdom of heaven was opened to us by the blood
of Christ's Passion. Their bodies were burnt without the camp, because "Christ suffered without
the gate," as the Apostle declares (Heb. 13:12). The scape-goat may denote either Christ's
Godhead Which went away into solitude when the Man Christ suffered, not by going to another
place, but by restraining His power: or it may signify the base concupiscence which we ought
to cast away from ourselves, while we offer up to Our Lord acts of virtue.

With regard to the uncleanness contracted by those who burnt these sacrifices, the reason is
the same as that which we assigned (ad 5) to the sacrifice of the red heifer.

Reply Obj. 7: The legal rite did not cleanse the leper of his deformity, but declared him to
be cleansed. This is shown by the words of Lev. 14:3, seqq., where it was said that the priest,
"when he shall find that the leprosy is cleansed," shall command "him that is to be purified":
consequently, the leper was already healed: but he was said to be purified in so far as the
verdict of the priest restored him to the society of men and to the worship of God. It happened
sometimes, however, that bodily leprosy was miraculously cured by the legal rite, when the
priest erred in his judgment.

Now this purification of a leper was twofold: for, in the first place, he was declared to be
clean; and, secondly, he was restored, as clean, to the society of men and to the worship of
God, to wit, after seven days. At the first purification the leper who sought to be cleansed
offered for himself "two living sparrows . . . cedar-wood, and scarlet, and hyssop," in such
wise that a sparrow and the hyssop should be tied to the cedar-wood with a scarlet thread,
so that the cedar-wood was like the handle of an aspersory: while the hyssop and sparrow were
that part of the aspersory which was dipped into the blood of the other sparrow which was "immolated
. . . over living waters." These things he offered as an antidote to the four defects of leprosy:
for cedar-wood, which is not subject to putrefaction, was offered against the putrefaction;
hyssop, which is a sweet-smelling herb, was offered up against the stench; a living sparrow
was offered up against numbness; and scarlet, which has a vivid color, was offered up against
the repulsive color of leprosy. The living sparrow was let loose to fly away into the plain,
because the leper was restored to his former liberty.

On the eighth day he was admitted to divine worship, and was restored to the society of men;
but only after having shaved all the hair of his body, and washed his clothes, because leprosy
rots the hair, infects the clothes, and gives them an evil smell. Afterwards a sacrifice was
offered for his sin, since leprosy was frequently a result of sin: and some of the blood of
the sacrifice was put on the tip of the ear of the man that was to be cleansed, "and on the
thumb of his right hand, and the great toe of his right foot"; because it is in these parts
that leprosy is first diagnosed and felt. In this rite, moreover, three liquids were employed:
viz. blood, against the corruption of the blood; oil, to denote the healing of the disease;
and living waters, to wash away the filth.

The figurative reason was that the Divine and human natures in Christ were denoted by the two
sparrows, one of which, in likeness of His human nature, was offered up in an earthen vessel
over living waters, because the waters of Baptism are sanctified by Christ's Passion. The other
sparrow, in token of His impassible Godhead, remained living, because the Godhead cannot die:
hence it flew away, for the Godhead could not be encompassed by the Passion. Now this living
sparrow, together with the cedar-wood and scarlet or cochineal, and hyssop, i.e. faith, hope
and charity, as stated above (ad 5), was put into the water for the purpose of sprinkling,
because we are baptized in the faith of the God-Man. By the waters of Baptism or of his tears
man washes his clothes, i.e. his works, and all his hair, i.e. his thoughts. The tip of the
right ear of the man to be cleansed is moistened with some the blood and oil, in order to strengthen
his hearing against harmful words; and the thumb and toe of his right hand and foot are moistened
that his deeds may be holy. Other matters pertaining to this purification, or to that also
of any other uncleannesses, call for no special remark, beyond what applies to other sacrifices,
whether for sins or for trespasses.

Reply Obj. 8 and 9: Just as the people were initiated by circumcision to the divine worship,
so were the ministers by some special purification or consecration: wherefore they are commanded
to be separated from other men, as being specially deputed, rather than others, to the ministry
of the divine worship. And all that was done touching them in their consecration or institution,
was with a view to show that they were in possession of a prerogative of purity, power and
dignity. Hence three things were done in the institution of ministers: for first, they were
purified; secondly, they were adorned [*'Ornabantur.' Some editions have 'ordinabantur'--'were
ordained': the former reading is a reference to Lev. 8:7-9] and consecrated; thirdly, they
were employed in the ministry. All in general used to be purified by washing in water, and
by certain sacrifices; but the Levites in particular shaved all the hair of their bodies, as
stated in Lev. 8 (cf. Num. 8).

With regard to the high-priests and priests the consecration was performed as follows. First,
when they had been washed, they were clothed with certain special garments in designation of
their dignity. In particular, the high-priest was anointed on the head with the oil of unction:
to denote that the power of consecration was poured forth by him on to others, just as oil
flows from the head on to the lower parts of the body; according to Ps. 132:2: "Like the precious
ointment on the head that ran down upon the beard, the beard of Aaron." But the Levites received
no other consecration besides being offered to the Lord by the children of Israel through the
hands of the high-priest, who prayed for them. The lesser priests were consecrated on the hands
only, which were to be employed in the sacrifices. They themselves and their garments were
sprinkled with the blood of the animal that had been sacrificed, in memory of the blood of
the lamb by which they had been delivered in Egypt. At their consecration the following sacrifices
were offered: a calf, for sin, in memory of Aaron's sin in fashioning the molten calf; a ram,
for a holocaust, in memory of the sacrifice of Abraham, whose obedience it behooved the high-priest
to imitate; again, a ram of consecration, which was a peace-offering, in memory of the delivery
from Egypt through the blood of the lamb; and a basket of bread, in memory of the manna vouchsafed
to the people.

In reference to their being destined to the ministry, the fat of the ram, one roll of bread,
and the right shoulder were placed on their hands, to show that they received the power of
offering these things to the Lord: while the Levites were initiated to the ministry by being
brought into the tabernacle of the covenant, as being destined to the ministry touching the
vessels of the sanctuary.

The figurative reason of these things was that those who are to be consecrated to the spiritual
ministry of Christ, should be first of all purified by the waters of Baptism, and by the waters
of tears, in their faith in Christ's Passion, which is a sacrifice both of expiation and of
purification. They have also to shave all the hair of their body, i.e. all evil thoughts. They
should, moreover, be decked with virtues, and be consecrated with the oil of the Holy Ghost,
and with the sprinkling of Christ's blood. And thus they should be intent on the fulfilment
of their spiritual ministry.

Reply Obj. 10: As already stated (A. 4), the purpose of the Law was to induce men to have reverence
for the divine worship: and this in two ways; first, by excluding from the worship of God whatever
might be an object of contempt; secondly, by introducing into the divine worship all that seemed
to savor of reverence. And, indeed, if this was observed in regard to the tabernacle and its
vessels, and in the animals to be sacrificed, much more was it to be observed in the very ministers.
Wherefore, in order to obviate contempt for the ministers, it was prescribed that they should
have no bodily stain or defect: since men so deformed are wont to be despised by others. For
the same reason it was also commanded that the choice of those who were to be destined to the
service of God was not to be made in a broadcast manner from any family, but according to their
descent from one particular stock, thus giving them distinction and nobility.

In order that they might be revered, special ornate vestments were appointed for their use,
and a special form of consecration. This indeed is the general reason of ornate garments. But
the high-priest in particular had eight vestments. First, he had a linen tunic. Secondly, he
had a purple tunic; round the bottom of which were placed "little bells" and "pomegranates
of violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed." Thirdly, he had the ephod, which covered his
shoulders and his breast down to the girdle; and it was made of gold, and violet and purple,
and scarlet twice dyed and twisted linen: and on his shoulders he bore two onyx stones, on
which were graven the names of the children of Israel. Fourthly, he had the rational, made
of the same material; it was square in shape, and was worn on the breast, and was fastened
to the ephod. On this rational there were twelve precious stones set in four rows, on which
also were graven the names of the children of Israel, in token that the priest bore the burden
of the whole people, since he bore their names on his shoulders; and that it was his duty ever
to think of their welfare, since he wore them on his breast, bearing them in his heart, so
to speak. And the Lord commanded the "Doctrine and Truth" to be put in the rational: for certain
matters regarding moral and dogmatic truth were written on it. The Jews indeed pretend that
on the rational was placed a stone which changed color according to the various things which
were about to happen to the children of Israel: and this they call the "Truth and Doctrine."
Fifthly, he wore a belt or girdle made of the four colors mentioned above. Sixthly, there was
the tiara or mitre which was made of linen. Seventhly, there was the golden plate which hung
over his forehead; on it was inscribed the Lord's name. Eighthly, there were "the linen breeches
to cover the flesh of their nakedness," when they went up to the sanctuary or altar. Of these
eight vestments the lesser priests had four, viz. the linen tunic and breeches, the belt and
the tiara.

According to some, the literal reason for these vestments was that they denoted the disposition
of the terrestrial globe; as though the high-priest confessed himself to be the minister of
the Creator of the world, wherefore it is written (Wis. 18:24): "In the robe" of Aaron "was
the whole world" described. For the linen breeches signified the earth out of which the flax
grows. The surrounding belt signified the ocean which surrounds the earth. The violet tunic
denoted the air by its color: its little bells betoken the thunder; the pomegranates, the lightning.
The ephod, by its many colors, signified the starry heaven; the two onyx stones denoted the
two hemispheres, or the sun and moon. The twelve precious stones on the breast are the twelve
signs of the zodiac: and they are said to have been placed on the rational because in heaven
are the types (rationes) of earthly things, according to Job 38:33: "Dost thou know the order
of heaven, and canst thou set down the reason (rationem) thereof on the earth?" The turban
or tiara signified the empyrean: the golden plate was a token of God, the governor of the universe.

The figurative reason is evident. Because bodily stains or defects wherefrom the priests had
to be immune, signify the various vices and sins from which they should be free. Thus it is
forbidden that he should be blind, i.e. he ought not to be ignorant: he must not be lame, i.e.
vacillating and uncertain of purpose: that he must have "a little, or a great, or a crooked
nose," i.e. that he should not, from lack of discretion, exceed in one direction or in another,
or even exercise some base occupation: for the nose signifies discretion, because it discerns
odors. It is forbidden that he should have "a broken foot" or "hand," i.e. he should not lose
the power of doing good works or of advancing in virtue. He is rejected, too, if he have a
swelling either in front or behind [Vulg.: 'if he be crook-backed']: by which is signified
too much love of earthly things: if he be blear-eyed, i.e. if his mind is darkened by carnal
affections: for running of the eyes is caused by a flow of matter. He is also rejected if he
had "a pearl in his eye," i.e. if he presumes in his own estimation that he is clothed in the
white robe of righteousness. Again, he is rejected "if he have a continued scab," i.e. lustfulness
of the flesh: also, if he have "a dry scurf," which covers the body without giving pain, and
is a blemish on the comeliness of the members; which denotes avarice. Lastly, he is rejected
"if he have a rupture" or hernia; through baseness rending his heart, though it appear not
in his deeds.

The vestments denote the virtues of God's ministers. Now there are four things that are necessary
to all His ministers, viz. chastity denoted by the breeches; a pure life, signified by the
linen tunic; the moderation of discretion, betokened by the girdle; and rectitude of purpose,
denoted by the mitre covering the head. But the high-priests needed four other things in addition
to these. First, a continual recollection of God in their thoughts; and this was signified
by the golden plate worn over the forehead, with the name of God engraved thereon. Secondly,
they had to bear with the shortcomings of the people: this was denoted by the ephod which they
bore on their shoulders. Thirdly, they had to carry the people in their mind and heart by the
solicitude of charity, in token of which they wore the rational. Fourthly, they had to lead
a godly life by performing works of perfection; and this was signified by the violet tunic.
Hence little golden bells were fixed to the bottom of the violet tunic, which bells signified
the teaching of divine things united in the high-priest to his godly mode of life. In addition
to these were the pomegranates, signifying unity of faith and concord in good morals: because
his doctrine should hold together in such a way that it should not rend asunder the unity of
faith and peace.

SIXTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 102, Art. 6]

Whether There Was Any Reasonable Cause for the Ceremonial Observances?

Objection 1: It would seem that there was no reasonable cause for the ceremonial observances.
Because, as the Apostle says (1 Tim. It was therefore unfitting that they should be forbidden
to eat certain foods, as being unclean according to Lev. 11 [*Cf. Deut. 14].

Obj. 2: Further, just as animals are given to man for food, so also are herbs: wherefore it
is written (Gen. 9:3): "As the green herbs have I delivered all" flesh "to you." But the Law
did not distinguish any herbs from the rest as being unclean, although some are most harmful,
for instance, those that are poisonous. Therefore it seems that neither should any animals
have been prohibited as being unclean.

Obj. 3: Further, if the matter from which a thing is generated be unclean, it seems that likewise
the thing generated therefrom is unclean. But flesh is generated from blood. Since therefore
all flesh was not prohibited as unclean, it seems that in like manner neither should blood
have been forbidden as unclean; nor the fat which is engendered from blood.

Obj. 4: Further, Our Lord said (Matt. 10:28; cf. Luke 12:4), that those should not be feared
"that kill the body," since after death they "have no more that they can do": which would not
be true if after death harm might come to man through anything done with his body. Much less
therefore does it matter to an animal already dead how its flesh be cooked. Consequently there
seems to be no reason in what is said, Ex. 23:19: "Thou shalt not boil a kid in the milk of
its dam."

Obj. 5: Further, all that is first brought forth of man and beast, as being most perfect, is
commanded to be offered to the Lord (Ex. 13). Therefore it is an unfitting command that is
set forth in Lev. 19:23: "when you shall be come into the land, and shall have planted in it
fruit trees, you shall take away the uncircumcision [*'Praeputia,' which Douay version renders
'first fruits'] of them," i.e. the first crops, and they "shall be unclean to you, neither
shall you eat of them."

Obj. 6: Further, clothing is something extraneous to man's body. Therefore certain kinds of
garments should not have been forbidden to the Jews: for instance (Lev. 22:11): "Thou shalt
not wear a garment that is woven of woolen and linen together."

Obj. 7: Further, to be mindful of God's commandments concerns not the body but the heart. Therefore
it is unsuitably prescribed (Deut. 6:8, seqq.) that they should "bind" the commandments of
God "as a sign" on their hands; and that they should "write them in the entry"; and (Num. 15:38,
seqq.) that they should "make to themselves fringes in the corners of their garments, putting
in them ribands of blue . . . they may remember . . . the commandments of the Lord."

Obj. 8: Further, the Apostle says (1 Cor. 9:9) that God does not "take care for oxen," and,
therefore, neither of other irrational animals. Therefore without reason is it commanded (Deut.
22:6): "If thou find, as thou walkest by the way, a bird's nest in a tree . . . thou shalt
not take the dam with her young"; and (Deut. 25:4): "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth
out thy corn"; and (Lev. 19:19): "Thou shalt not make thy cattle to gender with beasts of any
other kind."

Objection 9: Further, no distinction was made between clean and unclean plants. Much less therefore
should any distinction have been made about the cultivation of plants. Therefore it was unfittingly
prescribed (Lev. 19:19): "Thou shalt not sow thy field with different seeds"; and (Deut. 22:9,
seqq.): "Thou shalt sow thy vineyard with divers seeds"; and: "Thou shalt not plough with an
ox and an ass together."

Objection 10: Further, it is apparent that inanimate things are most of all subject to the
power of man. Therefore it was unfitting to debar man from taking silver and gold of which
idols were made, or anything they found in the houses of idols, as expressed in the commandment
of the Law (Deut. 7:25, seqq.). It also seems an absurd commandment set forth in Deut. 23:13,
that they should "dig round about and . . . cover with earth that which they were eased of."

Objection 11: Further, piety is required especially in priests. But it seems to be an act of
piety to assist at the burial of one's friends: wherefore Tobias is commended for so doing
(Tob. 1:20, seqq.). In like manner it is sometimes an act of piety to marry a loose woman,
because she is thereby delivered from sin and infamy. Therefore it seems inconsistent for these
things to be forbidden to priests (Lev. 21).

On the contrary, It is written (Deut. 18:14): "But thou art otherwise instructed by the Lord
thy God": from which words we may gather that these observances were instituted by God to be
a special prerogative of that people. Therefore they are not without reason or cause.

I answer that, The Jewish people, as stated above (A. 5), were specially chosen for the worship
of God, and among them the priests themselves were specially set apart for that purpose. And
just as other things that are applied to the divine worship, need to be marked in some particular
way so that they be worthy of the worship of God; so too in that people's, and especially the
priests', mode of life, there needed to be certain special things befitting the divine worship,
whether spiritual or corporal. Now the worship prescribed by the Law foreshadowed the mystery
of Christ: so that whatever they did was a figure of things pertaining to Christ, according
to 1 Cor. 10:11: "All these things happened to them in figures." Consequently the reasons for
these observances may be taken in two ways, first according to their fittingness to the worship
of God; secondly, according as they foreshadow something touching the Christian mode of life.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (A. 5, ad 4, 5), the Law distinguished a twofold pollution or
uncleanness; one, that of sin, whereby the soul was defiled; and another consisting in some
kind of corruption, whereby the body was in some way infected. Speaking then of the first-mentioned
uncleanness, no kind of food is unclean, or can defile a man, by reason of its nature; wherefore
we read (Matt. 15:17) as referring to sins. Yet certain foods can defile the soul accidentally;
in so far as man partakes of them against obedience or a vow, or from excessive concupiscence;
or through their being an incentive to lust, for which reason some refrain from wine and flesh-meat.

If, however, we speak of bodily uncleanness, consisting in some kind of corruption, the flesh
of certain animals is unclean, either because like the pig they feed on unclean things; or
because their life is among unclean surroundings: thus certain animals, like moles and mice
and such like, live underground, whence they contract a certain unpleasant smell; or because
their flesh, through being too moist or too dry, engenders corrupt humors in the human body.
Hence they were forbidden to eat the flesh of flat-footed animals, i.e. animals having an uncloven
hoof, on account of their earthiness; and in like manner they were forbidden to eat the flesh
of animals that have many clefts in their feet, because such are very fierce and their flesh
is very dry, such as the flesh of lions and the like. For the same reason they were forbidden
to eat certain birds of prey the flesh of which is very dry, and certain water-fowl on account
of their exceeding humidity. In like manner certain fish lacking fins and scales were prohibited
on account of their excessive moisture; such as eels and the like. They were, however, allowed
to eat ruminants and animals with a divided hoof, because in such animals the humors are well
absorbed, and their nature well balanced: for neither are they too moist, as is indicated by
the hoof; nor are they too earthy, which is shown by their having not a flat but a cloven hoof.
Of fishes they were allowed to partake of the drier kinds, of which the fins and scales are
an indication, because thereby the moist nature of the fish is tempered. Of birds they were
allowed to eat the tamer kinds, such as hens, partridges, and the like. Another reason was
detestation of idolatry: because the Gentiles, and especially the Egyptians, among whom they
had grown up, offered up these forbidden animals to their idols, or employed them for the purpose
of sorcery: whereas they did not eat those animals which the Jews were allowed to eat, but
worshipped them as gods, or abstained, for some other motive, from eating them, as stated above
(A. 3, ad 2). The third reason was to prevent excessive care about food: wherefore they were
allowed to eat those animals which could be procured easily and promptly.

With regard to blood and fat, they were forbidden to partake of those of any animals whatever
without exception. Blood was forbidden, both in order to avoid cruelty, that they might abhor
the shedding of human blood, as stated above (A. 3, ad 8); and in order to shun idolatrous
rites whereby it was customary for men to collect the blood and to gather together around it
for a banquet in honor of the idols, to whom they held the blood to be most acceptable. Hence
the Lord commanded the blood to be poured out and to be covered with earth (Lev. 17:13). For
the same reason they were forbidden to eat animals that had been suffocated or strangled: because
the blood of these animals would not be separated from the body: or because this form of death
is very painful to the victim; and the Lord wished to withdraw them from cruelty even in regard
to irrational animals, so as to be less inclined to be cruel to other men, through being used
to be kind to beasts. They were forbidden to eat the fat: both because idolaters ate it in
honor of their gods; and because it used to be burnt in honor of God; and, again, because blood
and fat are not nutritious, which is the cause assigned by Rabbi Moses (Doct. Perplex. iii).
The reason why they were forbidden to eat the sinews is given in Gen. 32:32, where it is stated
that "the children of Israel . . . eat not the sinew . . . because he touched the sinew of"
Jacob's "thigh and it shrank."

The figurative reason for these things is that all these animals signified certain sins, in
token of which those animals were prohibited. Hence Augustine says (Contra Faustum iv, 7):
"If the swine and lamb be called in question, both are clean by nature, because all God's creatures
are good: yet the lamb is clean, and the pig is unclean in a certain signification. Thus if
you speak of a foolish, and of a wise man, each of these expressions is clean considered in
the nature of the sound, letters and syllables of which it is composed: but in signification,
the one is clean, the other unclean." The animal that chews the cud and has a divided hoof,
is clean in signification. Because division of the hoof is a figure of the two Testaments:
or of the Father and Son: or of the two natures in Christ: of the distinction of good and evil.
While chewing the cud signifies meditation on the Scriptures and a sound understanding thereof;
and whoever lacks either of these is spiritually unclean. In like manner those fish that have
scales and fins are clean in signification. Because fins signify the heavenly or contemplative
life; while scales signify a life of trials, each of which is required for spiritual cleanness.
Of birds certain kinds were forbidden. In the eagle which flies at a great height, pride is
forbidden: in the griffon which is hostile to horses and men, cruelty of powerful men is prohibited.
The osprey, which feeds on very small birds, signifies those who oppress the poor. The kite,
which is full of cunning, denotes those who are fraudulent in their dealings. The vulture,
which follows an army, expecting to feed on the carcases of the slain, signifies those who
like others to die or to fight among themselves that they may gain thereby. Birds of the raven
kind signify those who are blackened by their lusts; or those who lack kindly feelings, for
the raven did not return when once it had been let loose from the ark. The ostrich which, though
a bird, cannot fly, and is always on the ground, signifies those who fight for God's cause,
and at the same time are taken up with worldly business. The owl, which sees clearly at night,
but cannot see in the daytime, denotes those who are clever in temporal affairs, but dull in
spiritual matters. The gull, which both flies in the air and swims in the water, signifies
those who are partial both to Circumcision and to Baptism: or else it denotes those who would
fly by contemplation, yet dwell in the waters of sensual delights. The hawk, which helps men
to seize the prey, is a figure of those who assist the strong to prey on the poor. The screech-owl,
which seeks its food by night but hides by day, signifies the lustful man who seeks to lie
hidden in his deeds of darkness. The cormorant, so constituted that it can stay a long time
under water, denotes the glutton who plunges into the waters of pleasure. The ibis is an African
bird with a long beak, and feeds on snakes; and perhaps it is the same as the stork: it signifies
the envious man, who refreshes himself with the ills of others, as with snakes. The swan is
bright in color, and by the aid of its long neck extracts its food from deep places on land
or water: it may denote those who seek earthly profit though an external brightness of virtue.
The bittern is a bird of the East: it has a long beak, and its jaws are furnished with follicules,
wherein it stores its food at first, after a time proceeding to digest it: it is a figure of
the miser, who is excessively careful in hoarding up the necessaries of life. The coot [*Douay:
porphyrion. St. Thomas' description tallies with the coot or moorhen: though of course he is
mistaken about the feet differing from one another.] has this peculiarity apart from other
birds, that it has a webbed foot for swimming, and a cloven foot for walking: for it swims
like a duck in the water, and walks like a partridge on land: it drinks only when it bites,
since it dips all its food in water: it is a figure of a man who will not take advice, and
does nothing but what is soaked in the water of his own will. The heron [*Vulg.: herodionem],
commonly called a falcon, signifies those whose "feet are swift to shed blood" (Ps. 13:3).
The plover [*Here, again, the Douay translators transcribed from the Vulgate: charadrion; charadrius
is the generic name for all plovers.], which is a garrulous bird, signifies the gossip. The
hoopoe, which builds its nest on dung, feeds on foetid ordure, and whose song is like a groan,
denotes worldly grief which works death in those who are unclean. The bat, which flies near
the ground, signifies those who being gifted with worldly knowledge, seek none but earthly
things. Of fowls and quadrupeds those alone were permitted which have the hind-legs longer
than the forelegs, so that they can leap: whereas those were forbidden which cling rather to
the earth: because those who abuse the doctrine of the four Evangelists, so that they are not
lifted up thereby, are reputed unclean. By the prohibition of blood, fat and nerves, we are
to understand the forbidding of cruelty, lust, and bravery in committing sin.

Reply Obj. The reason for this was that the eating of the products of the soil savors rather
of a simple life; whereas the eating of flesh savors of delicate and over-careful living. For
the soil gives birth to the herb of its own accord; and such like products of the earth may
be had in great quantities with very little effort: whereas no small trouble is necessary either
to rear or to catch an animal. Consequently God being wishful to bring His people back to a
more simple way of living, forbade them to eat many kinds of animals, but not those things
that are produced by the soil. Another reason may be that animals were offered to idols, while
the products of the soil were not.

The Reply to the Third Objection is clear from what has been said (ad 1).

Reply Obj. 4: Although the kid that is slain has no perception of the manner in which its flesh
is cooked, yet it would seem to savor of heartlessness if the dam's milk, which was intended
for the nourishment of her offspring, were served up on the same dish. It might also be said
that the Gentiles in celebrating the feasts of their idols prepared the flesh of kids in this
manner, for the purpose of sacrifice or banquet: hence (Ex. 23) after the solemnities to be
celebrated under the Law had been foretold, it is added: "Thou shalt not boil a kid in the
milk of its dam." The figurative reason for this prohibition is this: the kid, signifying Christ,
on account of "the likeness of sinful flesh" (Rom. 8:3), was not to be seethed, i.e. slain,
by the Jews, "in the milk of its dam," i.e. during His infancy. Or else it signifies that the
kid, i.e. the sinner, should not be boiled in the milk of its dam, i.e. should not be cajoled
by flattery.

Reply Obj. 5: The Gentiles offered their gods the first-fruits, which they held to bring them
good luck: or they burnt them for the purpose of secrecy. Consequently (the Israelites) were
commanded to look upon the fruits of the first three years as unclean: for in that country
nearly all the trees bear fruit in three years' time; those trees, to wit, that are cultivated
either from seed, or from a graft, or from a cutting: but it seldom happens that the fruit-stones
or seeds encased in a pod are sown: since it would take a longer time for these to bear fruit:
and the Law considered what happened most frequently. The fruits, however, of the fourth year,
as being the firstlings of clean fruits, were offered to God: and from the fifth year onward
they were eaten.

The figurative reason was that this foreshadowed the fact that after the three states of the
Law (the first lasting from Abraham to David, the second, until they were carried away to Babylon,
the third until the time of Christ), the Fruit of the Law, i.e. Christ, was to be offered to
God. Or again, that we must mistrust our first efforts, on account of their imperfection.

Reply Obj. 6: It is said of a man in Ecclus. 19:27, that "the attire of the body . . . " shows
"what he is." Hence the Lord wished His people to be distinguished from other nations, not
only by the sign of the circumcision, which was in the flesh, but also by a certain difference
of attire. Wherefore they were forbidden to wear garments woven of woolen and linen together,
and for a woman to be clothed with man's apparel, or vice versa, for two reasons. First, to
avoid idolatrous worship. Because the Gentiles, in their religious rites, used garments of
this sort, made of various materials. Moreover in the worship of Mars, women put on men's armor;
while, conversely, in the worship of Venus men donned women's attire. The second reason was
to preserve them from lust: because the employment of various materials in the making of garments
signified inordinate union of sexes, while the use of male attire by a woman, or vice versa,
has an incentive to evil desires, and offers an occasion of lust. The figurative reason is
that the prohibition of wearing a garment woven of woolen and linen signified that it was forbidden
to unite the simplicity of innocence, denoted by wool, with the duplicity of malice, betokened
by linen. It also signifies that woman is forbidden to presume to teach, or perform other duties
of men: or that man should not adopt the effeminate manners of a woman.

Reply Obj. 7: As Jerome says on Matt. 23:6, "the Lord commanded them to make violet-colored
fringes in the four corners of their garments, so that the Israelites might be distinguished
from other nations." Hence, in this way, they professed to be Jews: and consequently the very
sight of this sign reminded them of their law.

When we read: "Thou shalt bind them on thy hand, and they shall be ever before thy eyes [Vulg.:
'they shall be and shall move between thy eyes'], the Pharisees gave a false interpretation
to these words, and wrote the decalogue of Moses on a parchment, and tied it on their foreheads
like a wreath, so that it moved in front of their eyes": whereas the intention of the Lord
in giving this commandment was that they should be bound in their hands, i.e. in their works;
and that they should be before their eyes, i.e. in their thoughts. The violet-colored fillets
which were inserted in their cloaks signify the godly intention which should accompany our
every deed. It may, however, be said that, because they were a carnal-minded and stiff-necked
people, it was necessary for them to be stirred by these sensible things to the observance
of the Law.

Reply Obj. 8: Affection in man is twofold: it may be an affection of reason, or it may be an
affection of passion.

But if man's affection be one of passion, then it is moved also in regard to other animals:
for since the passion of pity is caused by the afflictions of others; and since it happens
that even irrational animals are sensible to pain, it is possible for the affection of pity
to arise in a man with regard to the sufferings of animals. Now it is evident that if a man
practice a pitiful affection for animals, he is all the more disposed to take pity on his fellow-men:
wherefore it is written (Prov. 11:10): "The just regardeth the lives of his beasts: but the
bowels of the wicked are cruel." Consequently the Lord, in order to inculcate pity to the Jewish
people, who were prone to cruelty, wished them to practice pity even with regard to dumb animals,
and forbade them to do certain things savoring of cruelty to animals. Hence He prohibited them
to "boil a kid in the milk of its dam"; and to "muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn";
and to slay "the dam with her young." It may, nevertheless, be also said that these prohibitions
were made in hatred of idolatry. For the Egyptians held it to be wicked to allow the ox to
eat of the grain while threshing the corn. Moreover certain sorcerers were wont to ensnare
the mother bird with her young during incubation, and to employ them for the purpose of securing
fruitfulness and good luck in bringing up children: also because it was held to be a good omen
to find the mother sitting on her young.

As to the mingling of animals of divers species, the literal reason may have been threefold.
The first was to show detestation for the idolatry of the Egyptians, who employed various mixtures
in worshipping the planets, which produce various effects, and on various kinds of things according
to their various conjunctions. The second reason was in condemnation of unnatural sins. The
third reason was the entire removal of all occasions of concupiscence. Because animals of different
species do not easily breed, unless this be brought about by man; and movements of lust are
aroused by seeing such things. Wherefore in the Jewish traditions we find it prescribed as
stated by Rabbi Moses that men shall turn away their eyes from such sights.

The figurative reason for these things is that the necessities of life should not be withdrawn
from the ox that treadeth the corn, i.e. from the preacher bearing the sheaves of doctrine,
as the Apostle states (1 Cor. 9:4, seqq.). Again, we should not take the dam with her young:
because in certain things we have to keep the spiritual senses, i.e. the offspring, and set
aside the observance of the letter, i.e. the mother, for instance, in all the ceremonies of
the Law. It is also forbidden that a beast of burden, i.e. any of the common people, should
be allowed to engender, i.e. to have any connection, with animals of another kind, i.e. with
Gentiles or Jews.

Reply Obj. 9: All these minglings were forbidden in agriculture; literally, in detestation
of idolatry. For the Egyptians in worshipping the stars employed various combinations of seeds,
animals and garments, in order to represent the various connections of the stars. Or else all
these minglings were forbidden in detestation of the unnatural vice.

They have, however, a figurative reason. For the prohibition: "Thou shalt not sow thy field
with different seeds," is to be understood, in the spiritual sense, of the prohibition to sow
strange doctrine in the Church, which is a spiritual vineyard. Likewise "the field," i.e. the
Church, must not be sown "with different seeds," i.e. with Catholic and heretical doctrines.
Neither is it allowed to plough "with an ox and an ass together"; thus a fool should not accompany
a wise man in preaching, for one would hinder the other.

Reply Obj. 10: [*The Reply to the Tenth Objection is lacking in the codices. The solution given
here is found in some editions, and was supplied by Nicolai.] Silver and gold were reasonably
forbidden (Deut. 7) not as though they were not subject to the power of man, but because, like
the idols themselves, all materials out of which idols were made, were anathematized as hateful
in God's sight. This is clear from the same chapter, where we read further on (Deut. 7:26):
"Neither shalt thou bring anything of the idol into thy house, lest thou become an anathema
like it." Another reason was lest, by taking silver and gold, they should be led by avarice
into idolatry to which the Jews were inclined. The other precept (Deut. 23) about covering
up excretions, was just and becoming, both for the sake of bodily cleanliness; and in order
to keep the air wholesome; and by reason of the respect due to the tabernacle of the covenant
which stood in the midst of the camp, wherein the Lord was said to dwell; as is clearly set
forth in the same passage, where after expressing the command, the reason thereof is at once
added, to wit: "For the Lord thy God walketh in the midst of thy camp, to deliver thee, and
to give up thy enemies to thee, and let thy camp be holy (i.e. clean), and let no uncleanness
appear therein." The figurative reason for this precept, according to Gregory (Moral. xxxi),
is that sins which are the fetid excretions of the mind should be covered over by repentance,
that we may become acceptable to God, according to Ps. 31:1: "Blessed are they whose iniquities
are forgiven, and whose sins are covered." Or else according to a gloss, that we should recognize
the unhappy condition of human nature, and humbly cover and purify the stains of a puffed-up
and proud spirit in the deep furrow of self-examination.

Reply Obj. 11: Sorcerers and idolatrous priests made use, in their rites, of the bones and
flesh of dead men. Wherefore, in order to extirpate the customs of idolatrous worship, the
Lord commanded that the priests of inferior degree, who at fixed times served in the temple,
should not "incur an uncleanness at the death" of anyone except of those who were closely related
to them, viz. their father or mother, and others thus near of kin to them. But the high-priest
had always to be ready for the service of the sanctuary; wherefore he was absolutely forbidden
to approach the dead, however nearly related to him. They were also forbidden to marry a "harlot"
or "one that has been put away," or any other than a virgin: both on account of the reverence
due to the priesthood, the honor of which would seem to be tarnished by such a marriage: and
for the sake of the children who would be disgraced by the mother's shame: which was most of
all to be avoided when the priestly dignity was passed on from father to son. Again, they were
commanded to shave neither head nor beard, and not to make incisions in their flesh, in order
to exclude the rites of idolatry. For the priests of the Gentiles shaved both head and beard,
wherefore it is written (Bar 6:30): "Priests sit in their temples having their garments rent,
and their heads and beards shaven." Moreover, in worshipping their idols "they cut themselves
with knives and lancets" (3 Kings 18:28). For this reason the priests of the Old Law were commanded
to do the contrary.

The spiritual reason for these things is that priests should be entirely free from dead works,
i.e. sins. And they should not shave their heads, i.e. set wisdom aside; nor should they shave
their beards, i.e. set aside the perfection of wisdom; nor rend their garments or cut their
flesh, i.e. they should not incur the sin of schism.

(2) Whether at the time of the Law the ceremonies of the Old Law had any power of justification?

(3) Whether they ceased at the coming of Christ?

(4) Whether it is a mortal sin to observe them after the coming of Christ?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 103, Art. 1]

Whether the Ceremonies of the Law Were in Existence Before the Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ceremonies of the Law were in existence before the Law.
For sacrifices and holocausts were ceremonies of the Old Law, as stated above (Q. 101, A. 4).
But sacrifices and holocausts preceded the Law: for it is written (Gen. 4:3, 4) that "Cain
offered, of the fruits of the earth, gifts to the Lord," and that "Abel offered of the firstlings
of his flock, and of their fat." Noe also "offered holocausts" to the Lord (Gen. 18:20), and
Abraham did in like manner (Gen. 22:13). Therefore the ceremonies of the Old Law preceded the Law.

Obj. 2: Further, the erecting and consecrating of the altar were part of the ceremonies relating
to holy things. But these preceded the Law. For we read (Gen. 13:18) that "Abraham . . . built
. . . an altar the Lord"; and (Gen. 28:18) that "Jacob . . . took the stone . . . and set it
up for a title, pouring oil upon the top of it." Therefore the legal ceremonies preceded the Law.

Obj. 3: Further, the first of the legal sacraments seems to have been circumcision. But circumcision
preceded the Law, as appears from Gen. 17. In like manner the priesthood preceded the Law;
for it is written (Gen. 14:18) that "Melchisedech . . . was the priest of the most high God."
Therefore the sacramental ceremonies preceded the Law.

Obj. 4: Further, the distinction of clean from unclean animals belongs to the ceremonies of
observances, as stated above (Q. 100, 2, A. 6, ad 1). But this distinction preceded the Law;
for it is written (Gen. 7:2, 3): "Of all clean beasts take seven and seven . . . but of the
beasts that are unclean, two and two." Therefore the legal ceremonies preceded the Law.

On the contrary, It is written (Deut. 6:1): "These are the precepts and ceremonies . . . which
the Lord your God commanded that I should teach you." But they would not have needed to be
taught about these things, if the aforesaid ceremonies had been already in existence. Therefore
the legal ceremonies did not precede the Law.

I answer that, As is clear from what has been said (Q. 101, A. 2; Q. 102, A. 2), the legal
ceremonies were ordained for a double purpose; the worship of God, and the foreshadowing of
Christ. Now whoever worships God must needs worship Him by means of certain fixed things pertaining
to external worship. But the fixing of the divine worship belongs to the ceremonies; just as
the determining of our relations with our neighbor is a matter determined by the judicial precepts,
as stated above (Q. 99, A. 4). Consequently, as among men in general there were certain judicial
precepts, not indeed established by Divine authority, but ordained by human reason; so also
there were some ceremonies fixed, not by the authority of any law, but according to the will
and devotion of those that worship God. Since, however, even before the Law some of the leading
men were gifted with the spirit of prophecy, it is to be believed that a heavenly instinct,
like a private law, prompted them to worship God in a certain definite way, which would be
both in keeping with the interior worship, and a suitable token of Christ's mysteries, which
were foreshadowed also by other things that they did, according to 1 Cor. 10:11: "All . . .
things happened to them in figure." Therefore there were some ceremonies before the Law, but
they were not legal ceremonies, because they were not as yet established by legislation.

Reply Obj. 1: The patriarchs offered up these oblations, sacrifices and holocausts previously
to the Law, out of a certain devotion of their own will, according as it seemed proper to them
to offer up in honor of God those things which they had received from Him, and thus to testify
that they worshipped God Who is the beginning and end of all.

Reply Obj. 2: They also established certain sacred things, because they thought that the honor
due to God demanded that certain places should be set apart from others for the purpose of
divine worship.

Reply Obj. 3: The sacrament of circumcision was established by command of God before the Law.
Hence it cannot be called a sacrament of the Law as though it were an institution of the Law,
but only as an observance included in the Law. Hence Our Lord said (John 7:20) that circumcision
was "not of Moses, but of his fathers." Again, among those who worshipped God, the priesthood
was in existence before the Law by human appointment, for the Law allotted the priestly dignity
to the firstborn.

Reply Obj. 4: The distinction of clean from unclean animals was in vogue before the Law, not
with regard to eating them, since it is written (Gen. 9:3): "Everything that moveth and liveth
shall be meat for you": but only as to the offering of sacrifices because they used only certain
animals for that purpose. If, however, they did make any distinction in regard to eating; it
was not that it was considered illegal to eat such animals, since this was not forbidden by
any law, but from dislike or custom: thus even now we see that certain foods are looked upon
with disgust in some countries, while people partake of them in others.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 103, Art. 2]

Whether, at the Time of the Law, the Ceremonies of the Old Law Had Any Power of Justification?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ceremonies of the Old Law had the power of justification
at the time of the Law. Because expiation from sin and consecration pertains to justification.
But it is written (Ex. 39:21) that the priests and their apparel were consecrated by the sprinkling
of blood and the anointing of oil; and (Lev. 16:16) that, by sprinkling the blood of the calf,
the priest expiated "the sanctuary from the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and from
their transgressions and . . . their sins." Therefore the ceremonies of the Old Law had the
power of justification.

Obj. 2: Further, that by which man pleases God pertains to justification, according to Ps.
10:8: "The Lord is just and hath loved justice." But some pleased God by means of ceremonies,
according to Lev. 10:19: "How could I . . . please the Lord in the ceremonies, having a sorrowful
heart?" Therefore the ceremonies of the Old Law had the power of justification.

Obj. But the leper was cleansed by means of the ceremonies of the Old Law, as stated in Lev.
14. Much more therefore could the ceremonies of the Old Law cleanse the soul by justifying it.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Gal. 2) [*The first words of the quotation are from 3:21:
St. Thomas probably quoting from memory, substituted them for 2:21, which runs thus: 'If justice
be by the Law, then Christ died in vain.']: "If there had been a law given which could justify
[Vulg.: 'give life'], Christ died in vain," i.e. without cause. But this is inadmissible. Therefore
the ceremonies of the Old Law did not confer justice.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 102, A. 5, ad 4), a twofold uncleanness was distinguished
in the Old Law. One was spiritual and is the uncleanness of sin. The other was corporal, which
rendered a man unfit for divine worship; thus a leper, or anyone that touched carrion, was
said to be unclean: and thus uncleanness was nothing but a kind of irregularity. From this
uncleanness, then, the ceremonies of the Old Law had the power to cleanse: because they were
ordered by the Law to be employed as remedies for the removal of the aforesaid uncleannesses
which were contracted in consequence of the prescription of the Law. Hence the Apostle says
(Heb. 9:13) that "the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of a heifer, being sprinkled,
sanctify such as are defiled, to the cleansing of the flesh." And just as this uncleanness
which was washed away by such like ceremonies, affected the flesh rather than the soul, so
also the ceremonies themselves are called by the Apostle shortly before (Heb. 9:10) justices
of the flesh: "justices of the flesh," says he, "being laid on them until the time of correction."

On the other hand, they had no power of cleansing from uncleanness of the soul, i.e. from the
uncleanness of sin. The reason of this was that at no time could there be expiation from sin,
except through Christ, "Who taketh away the sins [Vulg.: 'sin'] of the world" (John 1:29).
And since the mystery of Christ's Incarnation and Passion had not yet really taken place, those
ceremonies of the Old Law could not really contain in themselves a power flowing from Christ
already incarnate and crucified, such as the sacraments of the New Law contain. Consequently
they could not cleanse from sin: thus the Apostle says (Heb. 10:4) that "it is impossible that
with the blood of oxen and goats sin should be taken away"; and for this reason he calls them
(Gal. 4:9) "weak and needy elements": weak indeed, because they cannot take away sin; but this
weakness results from their being needy, i.e. from the fact that they do not contain grace
within themselves.

However, it was possible at the time of the Law, for the minds of the faithful, to be united
by faith to Christ incarnate and crucified; so that they were justified by faith in Christ:
of which faith the observance of these ceremonies was a sort of profession, inasmuch as they
foreshadowed Christ. Hence in the Old Law certain sacrifices were offered up for sins, not
as though the sacrifices themselves washed sins away, but because they were professions of
faith which cleansed from sin. In fact, the Law itself implies this in the terms employed:
for it is written (Lev. 4:26; 5:16) that in offering the sacrifice for sin "the priest shall
pray for him . . . and it shall be forgiven him," as though the sin were forgiven, not in virtue
of the sacrifices, but through the faith and devotion of those who offered them. It must be
observed, however, that the very fact that the ceremonies of the Old Law washed away uncleanness
of the body, was a figure of that expiation from sins which was effected by Christ.

It is therefore evident that under the state of the Old Law the ceremonies had no power of
justification.

Reply Obj. 1: That sanctification of priests and their sons, and of their apparel or of anything
else belonging to them, by sprinkling them with blood, had no other effect but to appoint them
to the divine worship, and to remove impediments from them, "to the cleansing of the flesh,"
as the Apostle states (Heb. 9:13) in token of that sanctification whereby "Jesus" sanctified
"the people by His own blood" (Heb. 13:12). Moreover, the expiation must be understood as referring
to the removal of these bodily uncleannesses, not to the forgiveness of sin. Hence even the
sanctuary which could not be the subject of sin is stated to be expiated.

Reply Obj. 2: The priests pleased God in the ceremonies by their obedience and devotion, and
by their faith in the reality foreshadowed; not by reason of the things considered in themselves.

Reply Obj. 3: Those ceremonies which were prescribed in the cleansing of a leper, were not
ordained for the purpose of taking away the defilement of leprosy. This is clear from the fact
that these ceremonies were not applied to a man until he was already healed: hence it is written
(Lev. 14:3, 4) that the priest, "going out of the camp, when he shall find that the leprosy
is cleansed, shall command him that is to be purified to offer," etc.; whence it is evident
that the priest was appointed the judge of leprosy, not before, but after cleansing. But these
ceremonies were employed for the purpose of taking away the uncleanness of irregularity. They
do say, however, that if a priest were to err in his judgment, the leper would be cleansed
miraculously by the power of God, but not in virtue of the sacrifice. Thus also it was by miracle
that the thigh of the adulterous woman rotted, when she had drunk the water "on which" the
priest had "heaped curses," as stated in Num. 5:19-27.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 103, Art. 3]

Whether the Ceremonies of the Old Law Ceased at the Coming of Christ?

Objection 1: It would seem that the ceremonies of the Old Law did not cease at the coming of
Christ. For it is written (Bar. 4:1): "This is the book of the commandments of God, and the
law that is for ever." But the legal ceremonies were part of the Law. Therefore the legal ceremonies
were to last for ever.

Obj. 2: Further, the offering made by a leper after being cleansed was a ceremony of the Law.
But the Gospel commands the leper, who has been cleansed, to make this offering (Matt. 8:4).
Therefore the ceremonies of the Old Law did not cease at Christ's coming.

Obj. 3: Further, as long as the cause remains, the effect remains. But the ceremonies of the
Old Law had certain reasonable causes, inasmuch as they were ordained to the worship of God,
besides the fact that they were intended to be figures of Christ. Therefore the ceremonies
of the Old Law should not have ceased.

Obj. 4: Further, circumcision was instituted as a sign of Abraham's faith: the observance of
the sabbath, to recall the blessing of creation: and other solemnities, in memory of other
Divine favors, as stated above (Q. 102, A. 4, ad 10; A. 5, ad 1). But Abraham's faith is ever
to be imitated even by us: and the blessing of creation and other Divine favors should never
be forgotten. Therefore at least circumcision and the other legal solemnities should not have
ceased. 8:13): "In saying a new (testament), he hath made the former old: and that which decayeth
and groweth old, is near its end."

I answer that, All the ceremonial precepts of the Old Law were ordained to the worship of God
as stated above (Q. 101, AA. 1, 2). Now external worship should be in proportion to the internal
worship, which consists in faith, hope and charity. Consequently exterior worship had to be
subject to variations according to the variations in the internal worship, in which a threefold
state may be distinguished. One state was in respect of faith and hope, both in heavenly goods,
and in the means of obtaining them--in both of these considered as things to come. Such was
the state of faith and hope in the Old Law. Another state of interior worship is that in which
we have faith and hope in heavenly goods as things to come; but in the means of obtaining heavenly
goods, as in things present or past. Such is the state of the New Law. The third state is that
in which both are possessed as present; wherein nothing is believed in as lacking, nothing
hoped for as being yet to come. Such is the state of the Blessed.

In this state of the Blessed, then, nothing in regard to worship of God will be figurative;
there will be naught but "thanksgiving and voice of praise" (Isa. 51:3). Hence it is written
concerning the city of the Blessed (Apoc. 21:22): "I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God
Almighty is the temple thereof, and the Lamb." Proportionately, therefore, the ceremonies of
the first-mentioned state which foreshadowed the second and third states, had need to cease
at the advent of the second state; and other ceremonies had to be introduced which would be
in keeping with the state of divine worship for that particular time, wherein heavenly goods
are a thing of the future, but the Divine favors whereby we obtain the heavenly boons are a
thing of the present.

Reply Obj. 1: The Old Law is said to be "for ever" simply and absolutely, as regards its moral
precepts; but as regards the ceremonial precepts it lasts for even in respect of the reality
which those ceremonies foreshadowed.

Reply Obj. 2: The mystery of the redemption of the human race was fulfilled in Christ's Passion:
hence Our Lord said then: "It is consummated" (John 19:30). Consequently the prescriptions
of the Law must have ceased then altogether through their reality being fulfilled. As a sign
of this, we read that at the Passion of Christ "the veil of the temple was rent" (Matt. 27:51).
Hence, before Christ's Passion, while Christ was preaching and working miracles, the Law and
the Gospel were concurrent, since the mystery of Christ had already begun, but was not as yet
consummated. And for this reason Our Lord, before His Passion, commanded the leper to observe
the legal ceremonies.

Reply Obj. 3: The literal reasons already given (Q. 102) for the ceremonies refer to the divine
worship, which was founded on faith in that which was to come. Hence, at the advent of Him
Who was to come, both that worship ceased, and all the reasons referring thereto.

Reply Obj. 4: The faith of Abraham was commended in that he believed in God's promise concerning
his seed to come, in which all nations were to blessed. Wherefore, as long as this seed was
yet to come, it was necessary to make profession of Abraham's faith by means of circumcision.
But now that it is consummated, the same thing needs to be declared by means of another sign,
viz. Baptism, which, in this respect, took the place of circumcision, according to the saying
of the Apostle (Col. 2:11, 12): "You are circumcised with circumcision not made by hand, in
despoiling of the body of the flesh, but in the circumcision of Christ, buried with Him in
Baptism."

As to the sabbath, which was a sign recalling the first creation, its place is taken by the
"Lord's Day," which recalls the beginning of the new creature in the Resurrection of Christ.
In like manner other solemnities of the Old Law are supplanted by new solemnities: because
the blessings vouchsafed to that people, foreshadowed the favors granted us by Christ. Hence
the feast of the Passover gave place to the feast of Christ's Passion and Resurrection: the
feast of Pentecost when the Old Law was given, to the feast of Pentecost on which was given
the Law of the living spirit: the feast of the New Moon, to Lady Day, when appeared the first
rays of the sun, i.e. Christ, by the fulness of grace: the feast of Trumpets, to the feasts
of the Apostles: the feast of Expiation, to the feasts of Martyrs and Confessors: the feast
of Tabernacles, to the feast of the Church Dedication: the feast of the Assembly and Collection,
to feast of the Angels, or else to the feast of All Hallows.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 103, Art. 4]

Whether Since Christ's Passion the Legal Ceremonies Can Be Observed Without Committing Mortal
Sin? For we must not believe that the apostles committed mortal sin after receiving the Holy
Ghost: since by His fulness they were "endued with power from on high" (Luke 24:49). But the
apostles observed the legal ceremonies after the coming of the Holy Ghost: for it is stated
(Acts 16:3) that Paul circumcised Timothy: and (Acts 21:26) that Paul, at the advice of James,
"took the men, and . . . being purified with them, entered into the temple, giving notice of
the accomplishment of the days of purification, until an oblation should be offered for every
one of them." Therefore the legal ceremonies can be observed since the Passion of Christ without
mortal sin.

Obj. 2: Further, one of the legal ceremonies consisted in shunning the fellowship of Gentiles.
But the first Pastor of the Church complied with this observance; for it is stated (Gal. 2:12)
that, "when" certain men "had come" to Antioch, Peter "withdrew and separated himself" from
the Gentiles. Therefore the legal ceremonies can be observed since Christ's Passion without
committing mortal sin.

Obj. 3: Further, the commands of the apostles did not lead men into sin.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Gal. 5:2): "If you be circumcised, Christ shall profit you
nothing." But nothing save mortal sin hinders us from receiving Christ's fruit. Therefore since
Christ's Passion it is a mortal sin to be circumcised, or to observe the other legal ceremonies.

I answer that, All ceremonies are professions of faith, in which the interior worship of God
consists. Now man can make profession of his inward faith, by deeds as well as by words: and
in either profession, if he make a false declaration, he sins mortally. Now, though our faith
in Christ is the same as that of the fathers of old; yet, since they came before Christ, whereas
we come after Him, the same faith is expressed in different words, by us and by them. For by
them was it said: "Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son," where the verbs are in the
future tense: whereas we express the same by means of verbs in the past tense, and say that
she "conceived and bore." In like manner the ceremonies of the Old Law betokened Christ as
having yet to be born and to suffer: whereas our sacraments signify Him as already born and
having suffered. Consequently, just as it would be a mortal sin now for anyone, in making a
profession of faith, to say that Christ is yet to be born, which the fathers of old said devoutly
and truthfully; so too it would be a mortal sin now to observe those ceremonies which the fathers
of old fulfilled with devotion and fidelity. Such is the teaching of Augustine (Contra Faust.
xix, 16), who says: "It is no longer promised that He shall be born, shall suffer and rise
again, truths of which their sacraments were a kind of image: but it is declared that He is
already born, has suffered and risen again; of which our sacraments, in which Christians share,
are the actual representation."

Reply Obj. 1: On this point there seems to have been a difference of opinion between Jerome
and Augustine. For Jerome (Super Galat. ii, 11, seqq.) distinguished two periods of time. One
was the time previous to Christ's Passion, during which the legal ceremonies were neither dead,
since they were obligatory, and did expiate in their own fashion; nor deadly, because it was
not sinful to observe them. But immediately after Christ's Passion they began to be not only
dead, so as no longer to be either effectual or binding; but also deadly, so that whoever observed
them was guilty of mortal sin. Hence he maintained that after the Passion the apostles never
observed the legal ceremonies in real earnest; but only by a kind of pious pretense, lest,
to wit, they should scandalize the Jews and hinder their conversion. This pretense, however,
is to be understood, not as though they did not in reality perform those actions, but in the
sense that they performed them without the mind to observe the ceremonies of the Law: thus
a man might cut away his foreskin for health's sake, not with the intention of observing legal
circumcision.

But since it seems unbecoming that the apostles, in order to avoid scandal, should have hidden
things pertaining to the truth of life and doctrine, and that they should have made use of
pretense, in things pertaining to the salvation of the faithful; therefore Augustine (Epist.
lxxxii) more fittingly distinguished three periods of time. One was the time that preceded
the Passion of Christ, during which the legal ceremonies were neither deadly nor dead: another
period was after the publication of the Gospel, during which the legal ceremonies are both
dead and deadly. The third is a middle period, viz. from the Passion of Christ until the publication
of the Gospel, during which the legal ceremonies were dead indeed, because they had neither
effect nor binding force; but were not deadly, because it was lawful for the Jewish converts
to Christianity to observe them, provided they did not put their trust in them so as to hold
them to be necessary unto salvation, as though faith in Christ could not justify without the
legal observances. On the other hand, there was no reason why those who were converted from
heathendom to Christianity should observe them. Hence Paul circumcised Timothy, who was born
of a Jewish mother; but was unwilling to circumcise Titus, who was of heathen nationality.

The reason why the Holy Ghost did not wish the converted Jews to be debarred at once from observing
the legal ceremonies, while converted heathens were forbidden to observe the rites of heathendom,
was in order to show that there is a difference between these rites. For heathenish ceremonial
was rejected as absolutely unlawful, and as prohibited by God for all time; whereas the legal
ceremonial ceased as being fulfilled through Christ's Passion, being instituted by God as a
figure of Christ.

Reply Obj. 2: According to Jerome, Peter withdrew himself from the Gentiles by pretense, in
order to avoid giving scandal to the Jews, of whom he was the Apostle. Hence he did not sin
at all in acting thus. On the other hand, Paul in like manner made a pretense of blaming him,
in order to avoid scandalizing the Gentiles, whose Apostle he was. But Augustine disapproves
of this solution: because in the canonical Scripture (viz. Gal. 2:11), wherein we must not
hold anything to be false, Paul says that Peter "was to be blamed." Consequently it is true
that Peter was at fault: and Paul blamed him in very truth and not with pretense. Peter, however,
did not sin, by observing the legal ceremonial for the time being; because this was lawful
for him who was a converted Jew. But he did sin by excessive minuteness in the observance of
the legal rites lest he should scandalize the Jews, the result being that he gave scandal to
the Gentiles.

Reply Obj. 3: Some have held that this prohibition of the apostles is not to be taken literally,
but spiritually: namely, that the prohibition of blood signifies the prohibition of murder;
the prohibition of things strangled, that of violence and rapine; the prohibition of things
offered to idols, that of idolatry; while fornication is forbidden as being evil in itself:
which opinion they gathered from certain glosses, which expound these prohibitions in a mystical
sense. Since, however, murder and rapine were held to be unlawful even by the Gentiles, there
would have been no need to give this special commandment to those who were converted to Christ
from heathendom. Hence others maintain that those foods were forbidden literally, not to prevent
the observance of legal ceremonies, but in order to prevent gluttony. Thus Jerome says on Ezech.
44:31 ("The priest shall not eat of anything that is dead"): "He condemns those priests who
from gluttony did not keep these precepts."

But since certain foods are more delicate than these and more conducive to gluttony, there
seems no reason why these should have been forbidden more than the others.

We must therefore follow the third opinion, and hold that these foods were forbidden literally,
not with the purpose of enforcing compliance with the legal ceremonies, but in order to further
the union of Gentiles and Jews living side by side. Because blood and things strangled were
loathsome to the Jews by ancient custom; while the Jews might have suspected the Gentiles of
relapse into idolatry if the latter had partaken of things offered to idols. Hence these things
were prohibited for the time being, during which the Gentiles and Jews were to become united
together. But as time went on, with the lapse of the cause, the effect lapsed also, when the
truth of the Gospel teaching was divulged, wherein Our Lord taught that "not that which entereth
into the mouth defileth a man" (Matt. 15:11); and that "nothing is to be rejected that is received
with thanksgiving" (1 Tim. 4:4). With regard to fornication a special prohibition was made,
because the Gentiles did not hold it to be sinful.

QUESTION 104

OF THE JUDICIAL PRECEPTS (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the judicial precepts: and first of all we shall consider them in general;
in the second place we shall consider their reasons. Under the first head there are four points
of inquiry:

(1) What is meant by the judicial precepts?

(2) Whether they are figurative?

(3) Their duration;

(4) Their division.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 104, Art. 1]

Whether the Judicial Precepts Were Those Which Directed Man in Relation to His Neighbor?

Objection 1: It would seem that the judicial precepts were not those which directed man in
his relations to his neighbor. For judicial precepts take their name from judgment. But there
are many things that direct man as to his neighbor, which are not subordinate to judgment.
Therefore the judicial precepts were not those which directed man in his relations to his neighbor.

Obj. 2: Further, the judicial precepts are distinct from the moral precepts, as stated above
(Q. 99, A. 4). But there are many moral precepts which direct man as to his neighbor: as is
evidently the case with the seven precepts of the second table. Therefore the judicial precepts
are not so called from directing man as to his neighbor.

Obj. 3: Further, as the ceremonial precepts relate to God, so do the judicial precepts relate
to one's neighbor, as stated above (Q. 99, A. 4; Q. 101, A. 1). But among the ceremonial precepts
there are some which concern man himself, such as observances in matter of food and apparel,
of which we have already spoken (Q. 102, A. 6, ad 1, 6). Therefore the judicial precepts are
not so called from directing man as to his neighbor.

On the contrary, It is reckoned (Ezech. 18:8) among other works of a good and just man, that
"he hath executed true judgment between man and man." But judicial precepts are so called from
"judgment." Therefore it seems that the judicial precepts were those which directed the relations
between man and man.

I answer that, As is evident from what we have stated above (Q. 95, A. 2; Q. 99, A. 4), in
every law, some precepts derive their binding force from the dictate of reason itself, because
natural reason dictates that something ought to be done or to be avoided. These are called
"moral" precepts: since human morals are based on reason. At the same time there are other
precepts which derive their binding force, not from the very dictate of reason (because, considered
in themselves, they do not imply an obligation of something due or undue); but from some institution,
Divine or human: and such are certain determinations of the moral precepts. When therefore
the moral precepts are fixed by Divine institution in matters relating to man's subordination
to God, they are called "ceremonial" precepts: but when they refer to man's relations to other
men, they are called "judicial" precepts. Hence there are two conditions attached to the judicial
precepts: viz. first, that they refer to man's relations to other men; secondly, that they
derive their binding force not from reason alone, but in virtue of their institution.

Reply Obj. 1: Judgments emanate through the official pronouncement of certain men who are at
the head of affairs, and in whom the judicial power is vested. Now it belongs to those who
are at the head of affairs to regulate not only litigious matters, but also voluntary contracts
which are concluded between man and man, and whatever matters concern the community at large
and the government thereof. Consequently the judicial precepts are not only those which concern
actions at law; but also all those that are directed to the ordering of one man in relation
to another, which ordering is subject to the direction of the sovereign as supreme judge.

Reply Obj. 2: This argument holds in respect of those precepts which direct man in his relations
to his neighbor, and derive their binding force from the mere dictate of reason.

Reply Obj. 3: Even in those precepts which direct us to God, some are moral precepts, which
the reason itself dictates when it is quickened by faith; such as that God is to be loved and
worshipped. There are also ceremonial precepts, which have no binding force except in virtue
of their Divine institution. Now God is concerned not only with the sacrifices that are offered
to Him, but also with whatever relates to the fitness of those who offer sacrifices to Him
and worship Him. Because men are ordained to God as to their end; wherefore it concerns God
and, consequently, is a matter of ceremonial precept, that man should show some fitness for
the divine worship. On the other hand, man is not ordained to his neighbor as to his end, so
as to need to be disposed in himself with regard to his neighbor, for such is the relationship
of a slave to his master, since a slave "is his master's in all that he is," as the Philosopher
says (Polit. i, 2). Hence there are no judicial precepts ordaining man in himself; all such
precepts are moral: because the reason, which is the princip[le] in moral matters, holds the
same position, in man, with regard to things that concern him, as a prince or judge holds in
the state. Nevertheless we must take note that, since the relations of man to his neighbor
are more subject to reason than the relations of man to God, there are more precepts whereby
man is directed in his relations to his neighbor, than whereby he is directed to God. For the
same reason there had to be more ceremonial than judicial precepts in the Law.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 104, Art. 2]

Whether the Judicial Precepts Were Figurative?

Objection 1: It would seem that the judicial precepts were not figurative. Because it seems
proper to the ceremonial precepts to be instituted as figures of something else. Therefore,
if the judicial precepts are figurative, there will be no difference between the judicial and
ceremonial precepts.

Obj. 2: Further, just as certain judicial precepts were given to the Jewish people, so also
were some given to other heathen peoples. But the judicial precepts given to other peoples
were not figurative, but stated what had to be done. Therefore it seems that neither were the
judicial precepts of the Old Law figures of anything.

Obj. 3: Further, those things which relate to the divine worship had to be taught under certain
figures, because the things of God are above our reason, as stated above (Q. 101, A. 2, ad
2). But things concerning our neighbor are not above our reason. Therefore the judicial precepts
which direct us in relation to our neighbor should not have been figurative.

On the contrary, The judicial precepts are expounded both in the allegorical and in the moral
sense (Ex. 21).

I answer that, A precept may be figurative in two ways. First, primarily and in itself: because,
to wit, it is instituted principally that it may be the figure of something. In this way the
ceremonial precepts are figurative; since they were instituted for the very purpose that they
might foreshadow something relating to the worship of God and the mystery of Christ. But some
precepts are figurative, not primarily and in themselves, but consequently. In this way the
judicial precepts of the Old Law are figurative. For they were not instituted for the purpose
of being figurative, but in order that they might regulate the state of that people according
to justice and equity. Nevertheless they did foreshadow something consequently: since, to wit,
the entire state of that people, who were directed by these precepts, was figurative, according
to 1 Cor. 10:11: "All . . . things happened to them in figure."

Reply Obj. 1: The ceremonial precepts are not figurative in the same way as the judicial precepts,
as explained above.

Reply Obj. 2: The Jewish people were chosen by God that Christ might be born of them. Consequently
the entire state of that people had to be prophetic and figurative, as Augustine states (Contra
Faust. xxii, 24). For this reason even the judicial precepts that were given to this people
were more figurative that those which were given to other nations. Thus, too, the wars and
deeds of this people are expounded in the mystical sense: but not the wars and deeds of the
Assyrians or Romans, although the latter are more famous in the eyes of men.

Reply Obj. 3: In this people the direction of man in regard to his neighbor, considered in
itself, was subject to reason. But in so far as it was referred to the worship of God, it was
above reason: and in this respect it was figurative.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 104, Art. 3]

Whether the Judicial Precepts of the Old Law Bind for Ever?

Objection 1: It would seem that the judicial precepts of the Old Law bind for ever. Because
the judicial precepts relate to the virtue of justice: since a judgment is an execution of
the virtue of justice. Now "justice is perpetual and immortal" (Wis. 1:15). Therefore the judicial
precepts bind for ever.

Obj. 2: Further, Divine institutions are more enduring than human institutions. But the judicial
precepts of human laws bind for ever. Therefore much more do the judicial precepts of the Divine
Law.

Obj. Now this is true of the ceremonial precept, which "could [Vulg.: 'can'] not, as to the
conscience, make him perfect that serveth only in meats and in drinks, and divers washings
and justices of the flesh," as the Apostle declares (Heb. 9:9, 10). On the other hand, the
judicial precepts were useful and efficacious in respect of the purpose for which they were
instituted, viz. to establish justice and equity among men. Therefore the judicial precepts
of the Old Law are not set aside, but still retain their efficacy. Therefore the entire Law
was also transferred. Therefore the judicial precepts are no longer in force.

I answer that, The judicial precepts did not bind for ever, but were annulled by the coming
of Christ: yet not in the same way as the ceremonial precepts. For the ceremonial precepts
were annulled so far as to be not only "dead," but also deadly to those who observe them since
the coming of Christ, especially since the promulgation of the Gospel. On the other hand, the
judicial precepts are dead indeed, because they have no binding force: but they are not deadly.
For if a sovereign were to order these judicial precepts to be observed in his kingdom, he
would not sin: unless perchance they were observed, or ordered to be observed, as though they
derived their binding force through being institutions of the Old Law: for it would be a deadly
sin to intend to observe them thus.

The reason for this difference may be gathered from what has been said above (A. 2). For it
has been stated that the ceremonial precepts are figurative primarily and in themselves, as
being instituted chiefly for the purpose of foreshadowing the mysteries of Christ to come.
On the other hand, the judicial precepts were not instituted that they might be figures, but
that they might shape the state of that people who were directed to Christ. Consequently, when
the state of that people changed with the coming of Christ, the judicial precepts lost their
binding force: for the Law was a pedagogue, leading men to Christ, as stated in Gal. 3:24.
Since, however, these judicial precepts are instituted, not for the purpose of being figures,
but for the performance of certain deeds, the observance thereof is not prejudicial to the
truth of faith. But the intention of observing them, as though one were bound by the Law, is
prejudicial to the truth of faith: because it would follow that the former state of the people
still lasts, and that Christ has not yet come.

Reply Obj. 1: The obligation of observing justice is indeed perpetual. But the determination
of those things that are just, according to human or Divine institution, must needs be different,
according to the different states of mankind.

Reply Obj. 2: The judicial precepts established by men retain their binding force for ever,
so long as the state of government remains the same. But if the state or nation pass to another
form of government, the laws must needs be changed. For democracy, which is government by the
people, demands different laws from those of oligarchy, which is government by the rich, as
the Philosopher shows (Polit. iv, 1). Consequently when the state of that people changed, the
judicial precepts had to be changed also.

Reply Obj. 3: Those judicial precepts directed the people to justice and equity, in keeping
with the demands of that state. But after the coming of Christ, there had to be a change in
the state of that people, so that in Christ there was no distinction between Gentile and Jew,
as there had been before. For this reason the judicial precepts needed to be changed also.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 104, Art. 4]

Whether It Is Possible to Assign a Distinct Division of the Judicial Precepts?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is impossible to assign a distinct division of the judicial
precepts. Because the judicial precepts direct men in their relations to one another. But those
things which need to be directed, as pertaining to the relationship between man and man, and
which are made use of by men, are not subject to division, since they are infinite in number.
Therefore it is not possible to assign a distinct division of the judicial precepts.

Obj. 2: Further, the judicial precepts are decisions on moral matters. But moral precepts do
not seem to be capable of division, except in so far as they are reducible to the precepts
of the decalogue. Therefore there is no distinct division of the judicial precepts.

Obj. 3: Further, because there is a distinct division of the ceremonial precepts, the Law alludes
to this division, by describing some as "sacrifices," others as "observances." But the Law
contains no allusion to a division of the judicial precepts. Therefore it seems that they have
no distinct division.

On the contrary, Wherever there is order there must needs be division. But the notion of order
is chiefly applicable to the judicial precepts, since thereby that people was ordained. Therefore
it is most necessary that they should have a distinct division.

I answer that, Since law is the art, as it were, of directing or ordering the life of man,
as in every art there is a distinct division in the rules of art, so, in every law, there must
be a distinct division of precepts: else the law would be rendered useless by confusion. We
must therefore say that the judicial precepts of the Old Law, whereby men were directed in
their relations to one another, are subject to division according to the divers ways in which
man is directed.

Now in every people a fourfold order is to be found: one, of the people's sovereign to his
subjects; a second of the subjects among themselves; a third, of the citizens to foreigners;
a fourth, of members of the same household, such as the order of the father to his son; of
the wife to her husband; of the master to his servant: and according to these four orders we
may distinguish different kinds of judicial precepts in the Old Law. For certain precepts are
laid down concerning the institution of the sovereign and relating to his office, and about
the respect due to him: this is one part of the judicial precepts. Again, certain precepts
are given in respect of a man to his fellow citizens: for instance, about buying and selling,
judgments and penalties: this is the second part of the judicial precepts. Again, certain precepts
are enjoined with regard to foreigners: for instance, about wars waged against their foes,
and about the way to receive travelers and strangers: this is the third part of the judicial
precepts. Lastly, certain precepts are given relating to home life: for instance, about servants,
wives and children: this is the fourth part of the judicial precepts.

Reply Obj. 1: Things pertaining to the ordering of relations between one man and another are
indeed infinite in number: yet they are reducible to certain distinct heads, according to the
different relations in which one man stands to another, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: The precepts of the decalogue held the first place in the moral order, as stated
above (Q. 100, A. 3): and consequently it is fitting that other moral precepts should be distinguished
in relation to them. But the judicial and ceremonial precepts have a different binding force,
derived, not from natural reason, but from their institution alone. Hence there is a distinct
reason for distinguishing them.

Reply Obj. 3: The Law alludes to the division of the judicial precepts in the very things themselves
which are prescribed by the judicial precepts of the Law.

QUESTION 105

OF THE REASON FOR THE JUDICIAL PRECEPTS (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the reason for the judicial precepts: under which head there are four
points of inquiry:

(1) Concerning the reason for the judicial precepts relating to the rulers;

(2) Concerning the fellowship of one man with another;

(3) Concerning matters relating to foreigners;

(4) Concerning things relating to domestic matters.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 105, Art. 1]

Whether the Old Law Enjoined Fitting Precepts Concerning Rulers?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law made unfitting precepts concerning rulers. Because,
as the Philosopher says (Polit. iii, 4), "the ordering of the people depends mostly on the
chief ruler." But the Law contains no precept relating to the institution of the chief ruler;
and yet we find therein prescriptions concerning the inferior rulers: firstly (Ex. 18:21):
"Provide out of all the people wise [Vulg.: 'able'] men," etc.; again (Num. 11:16): "Gather
unto Me seventy men of the ancients of Israel"; and again (Deut. 1:13): "Let Me have from among
you wise and understanding men," etc. Therefore the Law provided insufficiently in regard to
the rulers of the people.

Obj. 2: Further, "The best gives of the best," as Plato states (Tim. ii). Now the best ordering
of a state or of any nation is to be ruled by a king: because this kind of government approaches
nearest in resemblance to the Divine government, whereby God rules the world from the beginning.
Therefore the Law should have set a king over the people, and they should not have been allowed
a choice in the matter, as indeed they were allowed (Deut. 17:14, 15): "When thou . . . shalt
say: I will set a king over me . . . thou shalt set him," etc.

Obj. 3: Further, according to Matt. 12:25: "Every kingdom divided against itself shall be made
desolate": a saying which was verified in the Jewish people, whose destruction was brought
about by the division of the kingdom. But the Law should aim chiefly at things pertaining to
the general well-being of the people. Therefore it should have forbidden the kingdom to be
divided under two kings: nor should this have been introduced even by Divine authority; as
we read of its being introduced by the authority of the prophet Ahias the Silonite (3 Kings
11:29, seqq.).

Obj. 4: Further, just as priests are instituted for the benefit of the people in things concerning
God, as stated in Heb. 5:1; so are rulers set up for the benefit of the people in human affairs.
But certain things were allotted as a means of livelihood for the priests and Levites of the
Law: such as the tithes and first-fruits, and many like things. Therefore in like manner certain
things should have been determined for the livelihood of the rulers of the people: the more
that they were forbidden to accept presents, as is clearly stated in Ex. 23:8: "You shall not
[Vulg.: 'Neither shalt thou'] take bribes, which even blind the wise, and pervert the words
of the just."

Obj. 5: Further, as a kingdom is the best form of government, so is tyranny the most corrupt.
But when the Lord appointed the king, He established a tyrannical law; for it is written (1
Kings 8:11): "This will be the right of the king, that shall reign over you: He will take your
sons," etc. Therefore the Law made unfitting provision with regard to the institution of rulers.

On the contrary, The people of Israel is commended for the beauty of its order (Num. 24:5):
"How beautiful are thy tabernacles, O Jacob, and thy tents." But the beautiful ordering of
a people depends on the right establishment of its rulers. Therefore the Law made right provision
for the people with regard to its rulers.

I answer that, Two points are to be observed concerning the right ordering of rulers in a state
or nation. One is that all should take some share in the government: for this form of constitution
ensures peace among the people, commends itself to all, and is most enduring, as stated in
Polit. ii, 6. The other point is to be observed in respect of the kinds of government, or the
different ways in which the constitutions are established. For whereas these differ in kind,
as the Philosopher states (Polit. iii, 5), nevertheless the first place is held by the kingdom,
where the power of government is vested in one; and aristocracy, which signifies government
by the best, where the power of government is vested in a few. Accordingly, the best form of
government is in a state or kingdom, where one is given the power to preside over all; while
under him are others having governing powers: and yet a government of this kind is shared by
all, both because all are eligible to govern, and because the rules are chosen by all. For
this is the best form of polity, being partly kingdom, since there is one at the head of all;
partly aristocracy, in so far as a number of persons are set in authority; partly democracy,
i.e. government by the people, in so far as the rulers can be chosen from the people, and the
people have the right to choose their rulers.

Such was the form of government established by the Divine Law. For Moses and his successors
governed the people in such a way that each of them was ruler over all; so that there was a
kind of kingdom. Moreover, seventy-two men were chosen, who were elders in virtue: for it is
written (Deut. 1:15): "I took out of your tribes wise and honorable, and appointed them rulers":
so that there was an element of aristocracy. But it was a democratical government in so far
as the rulers were chosen from all the people; for it is written (Ex. 18:21): "Provide out
of all the people wise [Vulg.: 'able'] men," etc.; and, again, in so far as they were chosen
by the people; wherefore it is written (Deut. 1:13): "Let me have from among you wise [Vulg.:
'able'] men," etc. Consequently it is evident that the ordering of the rulers was well provided
for by the Law.

Reply Obj. 1: This people was governed under the special care of God: wherefore it is written
(Deut. 7:6): "The Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be His peculiar people": and this is why
the Lord reserved to Himself the institution of the chief ruler. For this too did Moses pray
(Num. 27:16): "May the Lord the God of the spirits of all the flesh provide a man, that may
be over this multitude." Thus by God's orders Josue was set at the head in place of Moses;
and we read about each of the judges who succeeded Josue that God "raised . . . up a saviour"
for the people, and that "the spirit of the Lord was" in them (Judges 3:9, 10, 15). Hence the
Lord did not leave the choice of a king to the people; but reserved this to Himself, as appears
from Deut. 17:15: "Thou shalt set him whom the Lord thy God shall choose."

Reply Obj. 2: A kingdom is the best form of government of the people, so long as it is not
corrupt. But since the power granted to a king is so great, it easily degenerates into tyranny,
unless he to whom this power is given be a very virtuous man: for it is only the virtuous man
that conducts himself well in the midst of prosperity, as the Philosopher observes (Ethic.
iv, 3). Now perfect virtue is to be found in few: and especially were the Jews inclined to
cruelty and avarice, which vices above all turn men into tyrants. Hence from the very first
the Lord did not set up the kingly authority with full power, but gave them judges and governors
to rule them. But afterwards when the people asked Him to do so, being indignant with them,
so to speak, He granted them a king, as is clear from His words to Samuel (1 Kings 8:7): "They
have not rejected thee, but Me, that I should not reign over them."

Nevertheless, as regards the appointment of a king, He did establish the manner of election
from the very beginning (Deut. 17:14, seqq.): and then He determined two points: first, that
in choosing a king they should wait for the Lord's decision; and that they should not make
a man of another nation king, because such kings are wont to take little interest in the people
they are set over, and consequently to have no care for their welfare: secondly, He prescribed
how the king after his appointment should behave, in regard to himself; namely, that he should
not accumulate chariots and horses, nor wives, nor immense wealth: because through craving
for such things princes become tyrants and forsake justice. He also appointed the manner in
which they were to conduct themselves towards God: namely, that they should continually read
and ponder on God's Law, and should ever fear and obey God. Moreover, He decided how they should
behave towards their subjects: namely, that they should not proudly despise them, or ill-treat
them, and that they should not depart from the paths of justice.

Reply Obj. 3: The division of the kingdom, and a number of kings, was rather a punishment inflicted
on that people for their many dissensions, specially against the just rule of David, than a
benefit conferred on them for their profit. Hence it is written (Osee 13:11): "I will give
thee a king in My wrath"; and (Osee 8:4): "They have reigned, but not by Me: they have been
princes, and I knew not."

Reply Obj. 4: The priestly office was bequeathed by succession from father to son: and this,
in order that it might be held in greater respect, if not any man from the people could become
a priest: since honor was given to them out of reverence for the divine worship. Hence it was
necessary to put aside certain things for them both as to tithes and as to first-fruits, and,
again, as to oblations and sacrifices, that they might be afforded a means of livelihood. On
the other hand, the rulers, as stated above, were chosen from the whole people; wherefore they
had their own possessions, from which to derive a living: and so much the more, since the Lord
forbade even a king to have superabundant wealth to make too much show of magnificence: both
because he could scarcely avoid the excesses of pride and tyranny, arising from such things,
and because, if the rulers were not very rich, and if their office involved much work and anxiety,
it would not tempt the ambition of the common people; and would not become an occasion of sedition.

Reply Obj. 5: That right was not given to the king by Divine institution: rather was it foretold
that kings would usurp that right, by framing unjust laws, and by degenerating into tyrants
who preyed on their subjects. This is clear from the context that follows: "And you shall be
his slaves [Douay: 'servants']": which is significative of tyranny, since a tyrant rules is
subjects as though they were his slaves. Hence Samuel spoke these words to deter them from
asking for a king; since the narrative continues: "But the people would not hear the voice
of Samuel." It may happen, however, that even a good king, without being a tyrant, may take
away the sons, and make them tribunes and centurions; and may take many things from his subjects
in order to secure the common weal.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 105, Art. 2]

Whether the Judicial Precepts Were Suitably Framed As to the Relations of One Man with Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that the judicial precepts were not suitably framed as regards the
relations of one man with another. Because men cannot live together in peace, if one man takes
what belongs to another. But this seems to have been approved by the Law: since it is written
(Deut. 23:24): "Going into thy neighbor's vineyard, thou mayest eat as many grapes as thou
pleasest." Therefore the Old Law did not make suitable provisions for man's peace.

Obj. 2: Further, one of the chief causes of the downfall of states has been the holding of
property by women, as the Philosopher says (Polit. ii, 6). But this was introduced by the Old
Law; for it is written (Num. 27:8): "When a man dieth without a son, his inheritance shall
pass to his daughter." Therefore the Law made unsuitable provision for the welfare of the people.

Obj. 3: Further, it is most conducive to the preservation of human society that men may provide
themselves with necessaries by buying and selling, as stated in Polit. i. But the Old Law took
away the force of sales; since it prescribes that in the 50th year of the jubilee all that
is sold shall return to the vendor (Lev. 25:28). Therefore in this matter the Law gave the
people an unfitting command.

Obj. 4: Further, man's needs require that men should be ready to lend: which readiness ceases
if the creditors do not return the pledges: hence it is written (Ecclus. 29:10): "Many have
refused to lend, not out of wickedness, but they were afraid to be defrauded without cause."
And yet this was encouraged by the Law. First, because it prescribed (Deut. 15:2): "He to whom
any thing is owing from his friend or neighbor or brother, cannot demand it again, because
it is the year of remission of the Lord"; and (Ex. 22:15) it is stated that if a borrowed animal
should die while the owner is present, the borrower is not bound to make restitution. Secondly,
because the security acquired through the pledge is lost: for it is written (Deut. 24:10):
"When thou shalt demand of thy neighbor any thing that he oweth thee, thou shalt not go into
his house to take away a pledge"; and again (Deut. 24:12, 13): "The pledge shall not lodge
with thee that night, but thou shalt restore it to him presently." Therefore the Law made insufficient
provision in the matter of loans.

Obj. 5: Further, considerable risk attaches to goods deposited with a fraudulent depositary:
wherefore great caution should be observed in such matters: hence it is stated in 2 Mac. 3:15
that "the priests . . . called upon Him from heaven, Who made the law concerning things given
to be kept, that He would preserve them safe, for them that had deposited them." But the precepts
of the Old Law observed little caution in regard to deposits: since it is prescribed (Ex. 22:10,
11) that when goods deposited are lost, the owner is to stand by the oath of the depositary.
Therefore the Law made unsuitable provision in this matter.

Obj. 6: Further, just as a workman offers his work for hire, so do men let houses and so forth.
But there is no need for the tenant to pay his rent as soon as he takes a house.

Obj. 7: Further, since there is often pressing need for a judge, it should be easy to gain
access to one. It was therefore unfitting that the Law (Deut. 17:8, 9) should command them
to go to a fixed place to ask for judgment on doubtful matters.

Obj. 8: Further, it is possible that not only two, but three or more, should agree to tell
a lie. Therefore it is unreasonably stated (Deut. 19:15) that "in the mouth of two or three
witnesses every word shall stand." Yet the Law fixed unequal punishments for certain faults:
for it is written (Ex. 22:1) that the thief "shall restore five oxen for one ox, and four sheep
for one sheep." Moreover, certain slight offenses are severely punished: thus (Num. 15:32,
seqq.) a man is stoned for gathering sticks on the sabbath day: and (Deut. 21:18, seqq.) the
unruly son is commanded to be stoned on account of certain small transgressions, viz. because
"he gave himself to revelling . . . and banquetings." Therefore the Law prescribed punishments
in an unreasonable manner.

Objection 10: Further, as Augustine says (De Civ. Dei xxi, 11), "Tully writes that the laws
recognize eight forms of punishment, indemnity, prison, stripes, retaliation, public disgrace,
exile, death, slavery." Now some of these were prescribed by the Law. "Indemnity," as when
a thief was condemned to make restitution fivefold or fourfold. "Prison," as when (Num. 15:34)
a certain man is ordered to be imprisoned. "Stripes"; thus (Deut. 25:2), "if they see that
the offender be worthy of stripes; they shall lay him down, and shall cause him to be beaten
before them." "Public disgrace" was brought on to him who refused to take to himself the wife
of his deceased brother, for she took "off his shoe from his foot, and" did "spit in his face"
(Deut. 25:9). The Law also recognized the "lex talionis," by prescribing (Ex. 21:24): "Eye
for eye, tooth for tooth." Therefore it seems unreasonable that the Law should not have inflicted
the two other punishments, viz. "exile" and "slavery."

Objection 11: Further, no punishment is due except for a fault. But dumb animals cannot commit
a fault. Therefore the Law is unreasonable in punishing them (Ex. 21:29): "If the ox . . .
shall kill a man or a woman," it "shall be stoned": and (Lev. 20:16): "The woman that shall
lie under any beast, shall be killed together with the same." Therefore it seems that matters
pertaining to the relations of one man with another were unsuitably regulated by the Law.

Objection 12: Further, the Lord commanded (Ex. 21:12) a murderer to be punished with death.
But the death of a dumb animal is reckoned of much less account than the slaying of a man.
Hence murder cannot be sufficiently punished by the slaying of a dumb animal. Therefore it
is unfittingly prescribed (Deut. 21:1, 4) that "when there shall be found . . . the corpse
of a man slain, and it is not known who is guilty of the murder . . . the ancients" of the
nearest city "shall take a heifer of the herd, that hath not drawn in the yoke, nor ploughed
the ground, and they shall bring her into a rough and stony valley, that never was ploughed,
nor sown; and there they shall strike off the head of the heifer."

On the contrary, It is recalled as a special blessing (Ps. Dei ii, 21), quoting Tully, "a nation
is a body of men united together by consent to the law and by community of welfare." Consequently
it is of the essence of a nation that the mutual relations of the citizens be ordered by just
laws. Now the relations of one man with another are twofold: some are effected under the guidance
of those in authority: others are effected by the will of private individuals. And since whatever
is subject to the power of an individual can be disposed of according to his will, hence it
is that the decision of matters between one man and another, and the punishment of evildoers,
depend on the direction of those in authority, to whom men are subject. On the other hand,
the power of private persons is exercised over the things they possess: and consequently their
dealings with one another, as regards such things, depend on their own will, for instance in
buying, selling, giving, and so forth. Now the Law provided sufficiently in respect of each
of these relations between one man and another. It is also directed the manner of pronouncing
just judgments, according to Deut. 1:16, 17: "Judge that which is just, whether he be one of
your own country or a stranger: there shall be no difference of persons." It also removed an
occasion of pronouncing unjust judgment, by forbidding judges to accept bribes (Ex. 23:8; Deut.
16:19). It prescribed the number of witnesses, viz. two or three: and it appointed certain
punishments to certain crimes, as we shall state farther on (ad 10).

But with regard to possessions, it is a very good thing, says the Philosopher (Polit. ii, 2)
that the things possessed should be distinct, and the use thereof should be partly common,
and partly granted to others by the will of the possessors. These three points were provided
for by the Law. Because, in the first place, the possessions themselves were divided among
individuals: for it is written (Num. 33:53, 54): "I have given you" the land "for a possession:
and you shall divide it among you by lot." And since many states have been ruined through want
of regulations in the matter of possessions, as the Philosopher observes (Polit. ii, 6); therefore
the Law provided a threefold remedy against the irregularity of possessions. The first was
that they should be divided equally, wherefore it is written (Num. 33:54): "To the more you
shall give a larger part, and to the fewer, a lesser." A second remedy was that possessions
could not be alienated for ever, but after a certain lapse of time should return to their former
owner, so as to avoid confusion of possessions (cf. ad 3). The third remedy aimed at the removal
of this confusion, and provided that the dead should be succeeded by their next of kin: in
the first place, the son; secondly, the daughter; thirdly, the brother; fourthly, the father's
brother; fifthly, any other next of kin. Furthermore, in order to preserve the distinction
of property, the Law enacted that heiresses should marry within their own tribe, as recorded
in Num. 36:6.

Secondly, the Law commanded that, in some respects, the use of things should belong to all
in common. Firstly, as regards the care of them; for it was prescribed (Deut. Secondly, as
regards fruits. For all alike were allowed on entering a friend's vineyard to eat of the fruit,
but not to take any away. And, specially, with respect to the poor, it was prescribed that
the forgotten sheaves, and the bunches of grapes and fruit, should be left behind for them
(Lev. 19:9; Deut. 24:19). Moreover, whatever grew in the seventh year was common property,
as stated in Ex. 23:11 and Lev. 25:4.

Thirdly, the law recognized the transference of goods by the owner. There was a purely gratuitous
transfer: thus it is written (Deut. 14:28, 29): "The third day thou shalt separate another
tithe . . . and the Levite . . . and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow . . .
shall come and shall eat and be filled." And there was a transfer for a consideration, for
instance, by selling and buying, by letting out and hiring, by loan and also by deposit, concerning
all of which we find that the Law made ample provision. Consequently it is clear that the Old
Law provided sufficiently concerning the mutual relations of one man with another.

Reply Obj. Now it is an effect of love that men give their own goods to others: because, as
stated in 1 John 3:17: "He that . . . shall see his brother in need, and shall shut up his
bowels from him: how doth the charity of God abide in him?" Hence the purpose of the Law was
to accustom men to give of their own to others readily: thus the Apostle (1 Tim. 6:18) commands
the rich "to give easily and to communicate to others." Now a man does not give easily to others
if he will not suffer another man to take some little thing from him without any great injury
to him. And so the Law laid down that it should be lawful for a man, on entering his neighbor's
vineyard, to eat of the fruit there: but not to carry any away, lest this should lead to the
infliction of a grievous harm, and cause a disturbance of the peace: for among well-behaved
people, the taking of a little does not disturb the peace; in fact, it rather strengthens friendship
and accustoms men to give things to one another.

Reply Obj. 2: The Law did not prescribe that women should succeed to their father's estate
except in default of male issue: failing which it was necessary that succession should be granted
to the female line in order to comfort the father, who would have been sad to think that his
estate would pass to strangers. Nevertheless the Law observed due caution in the matter, by
providing that those women who succeeded to their father's estate, should marry within their
own tribe, in order to avoid confusion of tribal possessions, as stated in Num. 36:7, 8.

Reply Obj. 3: As the Philosopher says (Polit. ii, 4), the regulation of possessions conduces
much to the preservation of a state or nation. Consequently, as he himself observes, it was
forbidden by the law in some of the heathen states, "that anyone should sell his possessions,
except to avoid a manifest loss." For if possessions were to be sold indiscriminately, they
might happen to come into the hands of a few: so that it might become necessary for a state
or country to become void of inhabitants. Hence the Old Law, in order to remove this danger,
ordered things in such a way that while provision was made for men's needs, by allowing the
sale of possessions to avail for a certain period, at the same time the said danger was removed,
by prescribing the return of those possessions after that period had elapsed. The reason for
this law was to prevent confusion of possessions, and to ensure the continuance of a definite
distinction among the tribes.

But as the town houses were not allotted to distinct estates, therefore the Law allowed them
to be sold in perpetuity, like movable goods. Because the number of houses in a town was not
fixed, whereas there was a fixed limit to the amount of estates, which could not be exceeded,
while the number of houses in a town could be increased. On the other hand, houses situated
not in a town, but "in a village that hath no walls," could not be sold in perpetuity: because
such houses are built merely with a view to the cultivation and care of possessions; wherefore
the Law rightly made the same prescription in regard to both (Lev. 25).

Reply Obj. 4: As stated above (ad 1), the purpose of the Law was to accustom men to its precepts,
so as to be ready to come to one another's assistance: because this is a very great incentive
to friendship. The Law granted these facilities for helping others in the matter not only of
gratuitous and absolute donations, but also of mutual transfers: because the latter kind of
succor is more frequent and benefits the greater number: and it granted facilities for this
purpose in many ways. First of all by prescribing that men should be ready to lend, and that
they should not be less inclined to do so as the year of remission drew nigh, as stated in
Deut. 15:7, seqq. Secondly, by forbidding them to burden a man to whom they might grant a loan,
either by exacting usury, or by accepting necessities of life in security; and by prescribing
that when this had been done they should be restored at once. For it is written (Deut. 23:19):
"Thou shalt not lend to thy brother money to usury": and (Deut. 24:6): "Thou shalt not take
the nether nor the upper millstone to pledge; for he hath pledged his life to thee": and (Ex.
Thirdly, by forbidding them to be importunate in exacting payment. Hence it is written (Ex.
For this reason, too, it is enacted (Deut. 24:10, 11): "When thou shalt demand of thy neighbor
anything that he oweth thee, thou shalt not go into his house to take away a pledge, but thou
shalt stand without, and he shall bring out to thee what he hath": both because a man's house
is his surest refuge, wherefore it is offensive to a man to be set upon in his own house; and
because the Law does not allow the creditor to take away whatever he likes in security, but
rather permits the debtor to give what he needs least. Fourthly, the Law prescribed that debts
should cease together after the lapse of seven years. For it was probable that those who could
conveniently pay their debts, would do so before the seventh year, and would not defraud the
lender without cause. But if they were altogether insolvent, there was the same reason for
remitting the debt from love for them, as there was for renewing the loan on account of their need.

As regards animals granted in loan, the Law enacted that if, through the neglect of the person
to whom they were lent, they perished or deteriorated in his absence, he was bound to make
restitution. But if they perished or deteriorated while he was present and taking proper care
of them, he was not bound to make restitution, especially if they were hired for a consideration:
because they might have died or deteriorated in the same way if they had remained in possession
of the lender, so that if the animal had been saved through being lent, the lender would have
gained something by the loan which would no longer have been gratuitous. And especially was
this to be observed when animals were hired for a consideration: because then the owner received
a certain price for the use of the animals; wherefore he had no right to any profit, by receiving
indemnity for the animal, unless the person who had charge of it were negligent. In the case,
however, of animals not hired for a consideration, equity demanded that he should receive something
by way of restitution at least to the value of the hire of the animal that had perished or
deteriorated.

Reply Obj. 5: The difference between a loan and a deposit is that a loan is in respect of goods
transferred for the use of the person to whom they are transferred, whereas a deposit is for
the benefit of the depositor. Hence in certain cases there was a stricter obligation of returning
a loan than of restoring goods held in deposit. Because the latter might be lost in two ways.
First, unavoidably: i.e. either through a natural cause, for instance if an animal held in
deposit were to die or depreciate in value; or through an extrinsic cause, for instance, if
it were taken by an enemy, or devoured by a beast (in which case, however, a man was bound
to restore to the owner what was left of the animal thus slain): whereas in the other cases
mentioned above, he was not bound to make restitution; but only to take an oath in order to
clear himself of suspicion. Secondly, the goods deposited might be lost through an avoidable
cause, for instance by theft: and then the depositary was bound to restitution on account of
his neglect. But, as stated above (ad 4), he who held an animal on loan, was bound to restitution,
even if he were absent when it depreciated or died: because he was held responsible for less
negligence than a depositary, who was only held responsible in case of theft.

Reply Obj. 6: Workmen who offer their labor for hire, are poor men who toil for their daily
bread: and therefore the Law commanded wisely that they should be paid at once, lest they should
lack food. But they who offer other commodities for hire, are wont to be rich: nor are they
in such need of their price in order to gain a livelihood: and consequently the comparison
does not hold.

Reply Obj. 7: The purpose for which judges are appointed among men, is that they may decide
doubtful points in matters of justice. Now a matter may be doubtful in two ways. First, among
simple-minded people: and in order to remove doubts of this kind, it was prescribed (Deut.
16:18) that "judges and magistrates" should be appointed in each tribe, "to judge the people
with just judgment." Secondly, a matter may be doubtful even among experts: and therefore,
in order to remove doubts of this kind, the Law prescribed that all should foregather in some
chief place chosen by God, where there would be both the high-priest, who would decide doubtful
matters relating to the ceremonies of divine worship; and the chief judge of the people, who
would decide matters relating to the judgments of men: just as even now cases are taken from
a lower to a higher court either by appeal or by consultation. Hence it is written (Deut. 17:8,
9): "If thou perceive that there be among you a hard and doubtful matter in judgment . . .
and thou see that the words of the judges within thy gates do vary; arise and go up to the
place, which the Lord thy God shall choose; and thou shalt come to the priests of the Levitical
race, and to the judge that shall be at that time." But such like doubtful matters did not
often occur for judgment: wherefore the people were not burdened on this account.

Reply Obj. 8: In the business affairs of men, there is no such thing as demonstrative and infallible
proof, and we must be content with a certain conjectural probability, such as that which an
orator employs to persuade. Consequently, although it is quite possible for two or three witnesses
to agree to a falsehood, yet it is neither easy nor probable that they succeed in so doing:
wherefore their testimony is taken as being true, especially if they do not waver in giving
it, or are not otherwise suspect. Moreover, in order that witnesses might not easily depart
from the truth, the Law commanded that they should be most carefully examined, and that those
who were found untruthful should be severely punished, as stated in Deut. 19:16, seqq.

There was, however, a reason for fixing on this particular number, in token of the unerring
truth of the Divine Persons, Who are sometimes mentioned as two, because the Holy Ghost is
the bond of the other two Persons; and sometimes as three: as Augustine observes on John 8:17:
"In your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true."

Reply Obj. 9: A severe punishment is inflicted not only on account of the gravity of a fault,
but also for other reasons. First, on account of the greatness of the sin, because a greater
sin, other things being equal, deserves a greater punishment. Secondly, on account of a habitual
sin, since men are not easily cured of habitual sin except by severe punishments. Thirdly,
on account of a great desire for or a great pleasure in the sin: for men are not easily deterred
from such sins unless they be severely punished. Fourthly, on account of the facility of committing
a sin and of concealing it: for such like sins, when discovered, should be more severely punished
in order to deter others from committing them.

Again, with regard to the greatness of a sin, four degrees may be observed, even in respect
of one single deed. The first is when a sin is committed unwillingly; because then, if the
sin be altogether involuntary, man is altogether excused from punishment; for it is written
(Deut. 22:25, seqq.) that a damsel who suffers violence in a field is not guilty of death,
because "she cried, and there was no man to help her." But if a man sinned in any way voluntarily,
and yet through weakness, as for instance when a man sins from passion, the sin is diminished:
and the punishment, according to true judgment, should be diminished also; unless perchance
the common weal requires that the sin be severely punished in order to deter others from committing
such sins, as stated above. The second degree is when a man sins through ignorance: and then
he was held to be guilty to a certain extent, on account of his negligence in acquiring knowledge:
yet he was not punished by the judges but expiated his sin by sacrifices. Hence it is written
(Lev. 4:2): "The soul that sinneth through ignorance," etc. This is, however, to be taken as
applying to ignorance of fact; and not to ignorance of the Divine precept, which all were bound
to know. The third degree was when a man sinned from pride, i.e. through deliberate choice
or malice: and then he was punished according to the greatness of the sin [*Cf. Deut. 25:2].
The fourth degree was when a man sinned from stubbornness or obstinacy: and then he was to
be utterly cut off as a rebel and a destroyer of the commandment of the Law [*Cf. Num. 15:30, 31].

Accordingly we must say that, in appointing the punishment for theft, the Law considered what
would be likely to happen most frequently (Ex. 22:1-9): wherefore, as regards theft of other
things which can easily be safeguarded from a thief, the thief restored only twice their value.
But sheep cannot be easily safeguarded from a thief, because they graze in the fields: wherefore
it happened more frequently that sheep were stolen in the fields. Consequently the Law inflicted
a heavier penalty, by ordering four sheep to be restored for the theft of one. As to cattle,
they were yet more difficult to safeguard, because they are kept in the fields, and do not
graze in flocks as sheep do; wherefore a yet more heavy penalty was inflicted in their regard,
so that five oxen were to be restored for one ox. And this I say, unless perchance the animal
itself were discovered in the thief's possession: because in that case he had to restore only
twice the number, as in the case of other thefts: for there was reason to presume that he intended
to restore the animal, since he kept it alive. Again, we might say, according to a gloss, that
"a cow is useful in five ways: it may be used for sacrifice, for ploughing, for food, for milk,
and its hide is employed for various purposes": and therefore for one cow five had to be restored.
But the sheep was useful in four ways: "for sacrifice, for meat, for milk, and for its wool."
The unruly son was slain, not because he ate and drank: but on account of his stubbornness
and rebellion, which was always punished by death, as stated above. As to the man who gathered
sticks on the sabbath, he was stoned as a breaker of the Law, which commanded the sabbath to
be observed, to testify the belief in the newness of the world, as stated above (Q. 100, A.
5): wherefore he was slain as an unbeliever.

Reply Obj. 10: The Old Law inflicted the death penalty for the more grievous crimes, viz. for
those which are committed against God, and for murder, for stealing a man, irreverence towards
one's parents, adultery and incest. In the case of thief of other things it inflicted punishment
by indemnification: while in the case of blows and mutilation it authorized punishment by retaliation;
and likewise for the sin of bearing false witness. In other faults of less degree it prescribed
the punishment of stripes or of public disgrace.

The punishment of slavery was prescribed by the Law in two cases. First, in the case of a slave
who was unwilling to avail himself of the privilege granted by the Law, whereby he was free
to depart in the seventh year of remission: wherefore he was punished by remaining a slave
for ever. Secondly, in the case of a thief, who had not wherewith to make restitution, as stated
in Ex. 22:3.

The punishment of absolute exile was not prescribed by the Law: because God was worshipped
by that people alone, whereas all other nations were given to idolatry: wherefore if any man
were exiled from that people absolutely, he would be in danger of falling into idolatry. For
this reason it is related (1 Kings 26:19) that David said to Saul: "They are cursed in the
sight of the Lord, who have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance
of the Lord, saying: Go, serve strange gods." There was, however, a restricted sort of exile:
for it is written in Deut. 19:4 [*Cf. Num. 35:25] that "he that striketh [Vulg.: 'killeth']
his neighbor ignorantly, and is proved to have had no hatred against him, shall flee to one
of the cities" of refuge and "abide there until the death of the high-priest." For then it
became lawful for him to return home, because when the whole people thus suffered a loss they
forgot their private quarrels, so that the next of kin of the slain were not so eager to kill
the slayer.

Reply Obj. 11: Dumb animals were ordered to be slain, not on account of any fault of theirs;
but as a punishment to their owners, who had not safeguarded their beasts from these offenses.
Hence the owner was more severely punished if his ox had butted anyone "yesterday or the day
before" (in which case steps might have been taken to avoid the danger) than if it had taken
to butting suddenly.--Or again, the animal was slain in detestation of the sin; and lest men
should be horrified at the sight thereof.

Reply Obj. 12: The literal reason for this commandment, as Rabbi Moses declares (Doct. Perplex.
iii), was because the slayer was frequently from the nearest city: wherefore the slaying of
the calf was a means of investigating the hidden murder. This was brought about in three ways.
In the first place the elders of the city swore that they had taken every measure for safeguarding
the roads. Secondly, the owner of the heifer was indemnified for the slaying of his beast,
and if the murder was previously discovered, the beast was not slain. Thirdly, the place, where
the heifer was slain, remained uncultivated. Wherefore, in order to avoid this twofold loss,
the men of the city would readily make known the murderer, if they knew who he was: and it
would seldom happen but that some word or sign would escape about the matter. Or again, this
was done in order to frighten people, in detestation of murder. Because the slaying of a heifer,
which is a useful animal and full of strength, especially before it has been put under the
yoke, signified that whoever committed murder, however useful and strong he might be, was to
forfeit his life; and that, by a cruel death, which was implied by the striking off of its
head; and that the murderer, as vile and abject, was to be cut off from the fellowship of men,
which was betokened by the fact that the heifer after being slain was left to rot in a rough
and uncultivated place.

Mystically, the heifer taken from the herd signifies the flesh of Christ; which had not drawn
a yoke, since it had done no sin; nor did it plough the ground, i.e. it never knew the stain
of revolt. The fact of the heifer being killed in an uncultivated valley signified the despised
death of Christ, whereby all sins are washed away, and the devil is shown to be the arch-murderer.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 105, Art. 3]

Whether the Judicial Precepts Regarding Foreigners Were Framed in a Suitable Manner?

Objection 1: It would seem that the judicial precepts regarding foreigners were not suitably
framed. But those who are acceptable to God should not be excluded from the Church of God.
Therefore it is unsuitably commanded (Deut. 23:3) that "the Ammonite and the Moabite, even
after the tenth generation, shall not enter into the church of the Lord for ever": whereas,
on the other hand, it is prescribed (Deut. 23:7) to be observed with regard to certain other
nations: "Thou shalt not abhor the Edomite, because he is thy brother; nor the Egyptian because
thou wast a stranger in his land."

Obj. 2: Further, we do not deserve to be punished for those things which are not in our power.
But it is not in man's power to be an eunuch, or born of a prostitute. Therefore it is unsuitably
commanded (Deut. 23:1, 2) that "an eunuch and one born of a prostitute shalt not enter into
the church of the Lord."

Obj. 3: Further, the Old Law mercifully forbade strangers to be molested: for it is written
(Ex. 22:21): "Thou shalt not molest a stranger, nor afflict him; for yourselves also were strangers
in the land of Egypt": and (Ex. 23:9): "Thou shalt not molest a stranger, for you know the
hearts of strangers, for you also were strangers in the land of Egypt." But it is an affliction
to be burdened with usury. Therefore the Law unsuitably permitted them (Deut. 23:19, 20) to
lend money to the stranger for usury.

Obj. 4: Further, men are much more akin to us than trees. But we should show greater care and
love for those things that are nearest to us, according to Ecclus. 13:19: "Every beast loveth
its like: so also every man him that is nearest to himself." Therefore the Lord unsuitably
commanded (Deut. 20:13-19) that all the inhabitants of a captured hostile city were to be slain,
but that the fruit-trees should not be cut down.

Obj. 5: Further, every one should prefer the common good of virtue to the good of the individual.
But the common good is sought in a war which men fight against their enemies. Therefore it
is unsuitably commanded (Deut. 20:5-7) that certain men should be sent home, for instance a
man that had built a new house, or who had planted a vineyard, or who had married a wife.

Obj. 6: Further, no man should profit by his own fault. But it is a man's fault if he be timid
or faint-hearted: since this is contrary to the virtue of fortitude. Therefore the timid and
faint-hearted are unfittingly excused from the toil of battle (Deut. 20:8).

On the contrary, Divine Wisdom declares (Prov. 8:8): "All my words are just, there is nothing
wicked nor perverse in them."

I answer that, Man's relations with foreigners are twofold: peaceful, and hostile: and in directing
both kinds of relation the Law contained suitable precepts. For the Jews were offered three
opportunities of peaceful relations with foreigners. First, when foreigners passed through
their land as travelers. Secondly, when they came to dwell in their land as newcomers. And
in both these respects the Law made kind provision in its precepts: for it is written (Ex.
22:21): "Thou shalt not molest a stranger (advenam)"; and again (Ex. 22:9): "Thou shalt not
molest a stranger (peregrino)." Thirdly, when any foreigners wished to be admitted entirely
to their fellowship and mode of worship. With regard to these a certain order was observed.
For they were not at once admitted to citizenship: just as it was law with some nations that
no one was deemed a citizen except after two or three generations, as the Philosopher says
(Polit. iii, 1). The reason for this was that if foreigners were allowed to meddle with the
affairs of a nation as soon as they settled down in its midst, many dangers might occur, since
the foreigners not yet having the common good firmly at heart might attempt something hurtful
to the people. Hence it was that the Law prescribed in respect of certain nations that had
close relations with the Jews (viz., the Egyptians among whom they were born and educated,
and the Idumeans, the children of Esau, Jacob's brother), that they should be admitted to the
fellowship of the people after the third generation; whereas others (with whom their relations
had been hostile, such as the Ammonites and Moabites) were never to be admitted to citizenship;
while the Amalekites, who were yet more hostile to them, and had no fellowship of kindred with
them, were to be held as foes in perpetuity: for it is written (Ex. 17:16): "The war of the
Lord shall be against Amalec from generation to generation."

In like manner with regard to hostile relations with foreigners, the Law contained suitable
precepts. For, in the first place, it commanded that war should be declared for a just cause:
thus it is commanded (Deut. 20:10) that when they advanced to besiege a city, they should at
first make an offer of peace. Secondly, it enjoined that when once they had entered on a war
they should undauntedly persevere in it, putting their trust in God. And in order that they
might be the more heedful of this command, it ordered that on the approach of battle the priest
should hearten them by promising them God's aid. Thirdly, it prescribed the removal of whatever
might prove an obstacle to the fight, and that certain men, who might be in the way, should
be sent home. Fourthly, it enjoined that they should use moderation in pursuing the advantage
of victory, by sparing women and children, and by not cutting down fruit-trees of that country.

Reply Obj. But in temporal matters concerning the public life of the people, admission was
not granted to everyone at once, for the reason given above: but to some, i.e. the Egyptians
and Idumeans, in the third generation; while others were excluded in perpetuity, in detestation
of their past offense, i.e. the peoples of Moab, Ammon, and Amalec. For just as one man is
punished for a sin committed by him, in order that others seeing this may be deterred and refrain
from sinning; so too may one nation or city be punished for a crime, that others may refrain
from similar crimes.

Nevertheless it was possible by dispensation for a man to be admitted to citizenship on account
of some act of virtue: thus it is related (Judith 14:6) that Achior, the captain of the children
of Ammon, "was joined to the people of Israel, with all the succession of his kindred." The
same applies to Ruth the Moabite who was "a virtuous woman" (Ruth 3:11): although it may be
said that this prohibition regarded men and not women, who are not competent to be citizens
absolutely speaking.

Reply Obj. 2: As the Philosopher says (Polit. iii, 3), a man is said to be a citizen in two
ways: first, simply; secondly, in a restricted sense. A man is a citizen simply if he has all
the rights of citizenship, for instance, the right of debating or voting in the popular assembly.
On the other hand, any man may be called citizen, only in a restricted sense, if he dwells
within the state, even common people or children or old men, who are not fit to enjoy power
in matters pertaining to the common weal. For this reason bastards, by reason of their base
origin, were excluded from the ecclesia, i.e. from the popular assembly, down to the tenth
generation. The same applies to eunuchs, who were not competent to receive the honor due to
a father, especially among the Jews, where the divine worship was continued through carnal
generation: for even among the heathens, those who had many children were marked with special
honor, as the Philosopher remarks (Polit. ii, 6). Nevertheless, in matters pertaining to the
grace of God, eunuchs were not discriminated from others, as neither were strangers, as already
stated: for it is written (Isa.

Reply Obj. 3: It was not the intention of the Law to sanction the acceptance of usury from
strangers, but only to tolerate it on account of the proneness of the Jews to avarice; and
in order to promote an amicable feeling towards those out of whom they made a profit.

Reply Obj. 4: A distinction was observed with regard to hostile cities. For some of them were
far distant, and were not among those which had been promised to them. When they had taken
these cities, they killed all the men who had fought against God's people; whereas the women
and children were spared. But in the neighboring cities which had been promised to them, all
were ordered to be slain, on account of their former crimes, to punish which God sent the Israelites
as executor of Divine justice: for it is written (Deut. 9:5) "because they have done wickedly,
they are destroyed at thy coming in." The fruit-trees were commanded to be left untouched,
for the use of the people themselves, to whom the city with its territory was destined to be
subjected.

Reply Obj. 5: The builder of a new house, the planter of a vineyard, the newly married husband,
were excluded from fighting, for two reasons. First, because man is wont to give all his affection
to those things which he has lately acquired, or is on the point of having, and consequently
he is apt to dread the loss of these above other things. Wherefore it was likely enough that
on account of this affection they would fear death all the more, and be so much the less brave
in battle. Secondly, because, as the Philosopher says (Phys. ii, 5), "it is a misfortune for
a man if he is prevented from obtaining something good when it is within his grasp." And so
lest the surviving relations should be the more grieved at the death of these men who had not
entered into the possession of the good things prepared for them; and also lest the people
should be horror-stricken at the sight of their misfortune: these men were taken away from
the danger of death by being removed from the battle.

Reply Obj. 6: The timid were sent back home, not that they might be the gainers thereby; but
lest the people might be the losers by their presence, since their timidity and flight might
cause others to be afraid and run away.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 105, Art. 4]

Whether the Old Law Set Forth Suitable Precepts About the Members of the Household?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Old Law set forth unsuitable precepts about the members
of the household. For a slave "is in every respect his master's property," as the Philosopher
states (Polit. i, 2). But that which is a man's property should be his always. Therefore it
was unfitting for the Law to command (Ex. 21:2) that slaves should "go out free" in the seventh
year.

Obj. 2: Further, a slave is his master's property, just as an animal, e.g. an ass or an ox.
But it is commanded (Deut. 22:1-3) with regard to animals, that they should be brought back
to the owner if they be found going astray. Therefore it was unsuitably commanded (Deut. 23:15):
"Thou shalt not deliver to his master the servant that is fled to thee."

Obj. 3: Further, the Divine Law should encourage mercy more even than the human law. But according
to human laws those who ill-treat their servants and maidservants are severely punished: and
the worse treatment of all seems to be that which results in death. Therefore it is unfittingly
commanded (Ex. 21:20, 21) that "he that striketh his bondman or bondwoman with a rod, and they
die under his hands . . . if the party remain alive a day . . . he shall not be subject to
the punishment, because it is his money."

Obj. 4: Further, the dominion of a master over his slave differs from that of the father over
his son (Polit. i, 3). But the dominion of master over slave gives the former the right to
sell his servant or maidservant. Therefore it was unfitting for the Law to allow a man to sell
his daughter to be a servant or handmaid (Ex. 21:7).

Obj. 5: Further, a father has power over his son. But he who has power over the sinner has
the right to punish him for his offenses. Therefore it is unfittingly commanded (Deut. 21:18,
seqq.) that a father should bring his son to the ancients of the city for punishment.

Obj. 6: Further, the Lord forbade them (Deut. 7:3, seqq.) to make marriages with strange nations;
and commanded the dissolution of such as had been contracted (1 Esdras 10). Therefore it was
unfitting to allow them to marry captive women from strange nations (Deut. 21:10, seqq.).

Obj. 7: Further, the Lord forbade them to marry within certain degrees of consanguinity and
affinity, according to Lev. 18. Therefore it was unsuitably commanded (Deut. 25:5) that if
any man died without issue, his brother should marry his wife.

Obj. 8: Further, as there is the greatest familiarity between man and wife, so should there
be the staunchest fidelity. But this is impossible if the marriage bond can be sundered. Therefore
it was unfitting for the Lord to allow (Deut. 24:1-4) a man to put his wife away, by writing
a bill of divorce; and besides, that he could not take her again to wife.

Objection 9: Further, just as a wife can be faithless to her husband, so can a slave be to
his master, and a son to his father. But the Law did not command any sacrifice to be offered
in order to investigate the injury done by a servant to his master, or by a son to his father.
Therefore it seems to have been superfluous for the Law to prescribe the "sacrifice of jealousy"
in order to investigate a wife's adultery (Num. 5:12, seqq.). Consequently it seems that the
Law put forth unsuitable judicial precepts about the members of the household.

On the contrary, It is written (Ps. 18:10): "The judgments of the Lord are true, justified
in themselves."

I answer that, The mutual relations of the members of a household regard everyday actions directed
to the necessities of life, as the Philosopher states (Polit. i, 1). Now the preservation of
man's life may be considered from two points of view. First, from the point of view of the
individual, i.e. in so far as man preserves his individuality: and for the purpose of the preservation
of life, considered from this standpoint, man has at his service external goods, by means of
which he provides himself with food and clothing and other such necessaries of life: in the
handling of which he has need of servants. Secondly man's life is preserved from the point
of view of the species, by means of generation, for which purpose man needs a wife, that she
may bear him children. Accordingly the mutual relations of the members of a household admit
of a threefold combination: viz. those of master and servant, those of husband and wife, and
those of father and son: and in respect of all these relationships the Old Law contained fitting
precepts. Thus, with regard to servants, it commanded them to be treated with moderation--both
as to their work, lest, to wit, they should be burdened with excessive labor, wherefore the
Lord commanded (Deut. 5:14) that on the Sabbath day "thy manservant and thy maidservant" should
"rest even as thyself"--and also as to the infliction of punishment, for it ordered those who
maimed their servants, to set them free (Ex. 21:26, 27). Similar provision was made in favor
of a maidservant when married to anyone (Ex. 21:7, seqq.). Moreover, with regard to those servants
in particular who were taken from among the people, the Law prescribed that they should go
out free in the seventh year taking whatever they brought with them, even their clothes (Ex.
21:2, seqq.): and furthermore it was commanded (Deut. 15:13) that they should be given provision
for the journey.

With regard to wives the Law made certain prescriptions as to those who were to be taken in
marriage: for instance, that they should marry a wife from their own tribe (Num. 36:6): and
this lest confusion should ensue in the property of various tribes. Also that a man should
marry the wife of his deceased brother when the latter died without issue, as prescribed in
Deut. 25:5, 6: and this in order that he who could not have successors according to carnal
origin, might at least have them by a kind of adoption, and that thus the deceased might not
be entirely forgotten. It also forbade them to marry certain women; to wit, women of strange
nations, through fear of their losing their faith; and those of their near kindred, on account
of the natural respect due to them. Furthermore it prescribed in what way wives were to be
treated after marriage. To wit, that they should not be slandered without grave reason: wherefore
it ordered punishment to be inflicted on the man who falsely accused his wife of a crime (Deut.
22:13, seqq.). Also that a man's hatred of his wife should not be detrimental to his son (Deut.
21:15, seqq.). Again, that a man should not ill-use his wife through hatred of her, but rather
that he should write a bill of divorce and send her away (Deut. 24:1). Furthermore, in order
to foster conjugal love from the very outset, it was prescribed that no public duties should
be laid on a recently married man, so that he might be free to rejoice with his wife.

With regard to children, the Law commanded parents to educate them by instructing them in the
faith: hence it is written (Ex. 12:26, seqq.): "When your children shall say to you: What is
the meaning of this service? You shall say to them: It is the victim of the passage of the
Lord." Moreover, they are commanded to teach them the rules of right conduct: wherefore it
is written (Deut. 21:20) that the parents had to say: "He slighteth hearing our admonitions,
he giveth himself to revelling and to debauchery."

Reply Obj. 1: As the children of Israel had been delivered by the Lord from slavery, and for
this reason were bound to the service of God, He did not wish them to be slaves in perpetuity.
Hence it is written (Lev. 25:39, seqq.): "If thy brother, constrained by poverty, sell himself
to thee, thou shalt not oppress him with the service of bondservants: but he shall be as a
hireling and a sojourner . . . for they are My servants, and I brought them out of the land
of Egypt: let them not be sold as bondmen": and consequently, since they were slaves, not absolutely
but in a restricted sense, after a lapse of time they were set free.

Reply Obj. 2: This commandment is to be understood as referring to a servant whom his master
seeks to kill, or to help him in committing some sin.

Reply Obj. 3: With regard to the ill-treatment of servants, the Law seems to have taken into
consideration whether it was certain or not: since if it were certain, the Law fixed a penalty:
for maiming, the penalty was forfeiture of the servant, who was ordered to be given his liberty:
while for slaying, the punishment was that of a murderer, when the slave died under the blow
of his master. If, however, the hurt was not certain, but only probable, the Law did not impose
any penalty as regards a man's own servant: for instance if the servant did not die at once
after being struck, but after some days: for it would be uncertain whether he died as a result
of the blows he received. For when a man struck a free man, yet so that he did not die at once,
but "walked abroad again upon his staff," he that struck him was quit of murder, even though
afterwards he died. Nevertheless he was bound to pay the doctor's fees incurred by the victim
of his assault. But this was not the case if a man killed his own servant: because whatever
the servant had, even his very person, was the property of his master. Hence the reason for
his not being subject to a pecuniary penalty is set down as being "because it is his money."

Reply Obj. 4: As stated above (ad 1), no Jew could own a Jew as a slave absolutely: but only
in a restricted sense, as a hireling for a fixed time. And in this way the Law permitted that
through stress of poverty a man might sell his son or daughter. This is shown by the very words
of the Law, where we read: "If any man sell his daughter to be a servant, she shall not go
out as bondwomen are wont to go out." Moreover, in this way a man might sell not only his son,
but even himself, rather as a hireling than as a slave, according to Lev.

Reply Obj. 5: As the Philosopher says (Ethic. x, 9), the paternal authority has the power only
of admonition; but not that of coercion, whereby rebellious and headstrong persons can be compelled.
Hence in this case the Lord commanded the stubborn son to be punished by the rulers of the city.

Reply Obj. 6: The Lord forbade them to marry strange women on account of the danger of seduction,
lest they should be led astray into idolatry. And specially did this prohibition apply with
respect to those nations who dwelt near them, because it was more probable that they would
adopt their religious practices. When, however, the woman was willing to renounce idolatry,
and become an adherent of the Law, it was lawful to take her in marriage: as was the case with
Ruth whom Booz married. Wherefore she said to her mother-in-law (Ruth 1:16): "Thy people shall
be my people, and thy God my God." Accordingly it was not permitted to marry a captive woman
unless she first shaved her hair, and pared her nails, and put off the raiment wherein she
was taken, and mourned for her father and mother, in token that she renounced idolatry for ever.

Reply Obj. 7: As Chrysostom says (Hom. xlviii super Matth.), "because death was an unmitigated
evil for the Jews, who did everything with a view to the present life, it was ordained that
children should be born to the dead man through his brother: thus affording a certain mitigation
to his death. It was not, however, ordained that any other than his brother or one next of
kin should marry the wife of the deceased, because" the offspring of this union "would not
be looked upon as that of the deceased: and moreover, a stranger would not be under the obligation
to support the household of the deceased, as his brother would be bound to do from motives
of justice on account of his relationship." Hence it is evident that in marrying the wife of
his dead brother, he took his dead brother's place.

Reply Obj. 8: The Law permitted a wife to be divorced, not as though it were just absolutely
speaking, but on account of the Jews' hardness of heart, as Our Lord declared (Matt. 19:8).
Of this, however, we must speak more fully in the treatise on Matrimony (Supp., Q. 67).

Reply Obj. 9: Wives break their conjugal faith by adultery, both easily, for motives of pleasure,
and hiddenly, since "the eye of the adulterer observeth darkness" (Job 24:15). But this does
not apply to a son in respect of his father, or to a servant in respect of his master: because
the latter infidelity is not the result of the lust of pleasure, but rather of malice: nor
can it remain hidden like the infidelity of an adulterous woman.

QUESTION 106

OF THE LAW OF THE GOSPEL, CALLED THE NEW LAW, CONSIDERED IN ITSELF (In Four Articles)

In proper sequence we have to consider now the Law of the Gospel which is called the New Law:
and in the first place we must consider it in itself; secondly, in comparison with the Old
Law; thirdly, we shall treat of those things that are contained in the New Law. Under the first
head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) What kind of law is it? i.e. Is it a written law or is it instilled in the heart?

(2) Of its efficacy, i.e. does it justify?

(3) Of its beginning: should it have been given at the beginning of the world?

(4) Of its end: i.e. whether it will last until the end, or will another law take its place?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 106, Art. 1]

Whether the New Law Is a Written Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law is a written law. For the New Law is just the same
as the Gospel. But the Gospel is set forth in writing, according to John 20:31: "But these
are written that you may believe." Therefore the New Law is a written law.

Obj. 2: Further, the law that is instilled in the heart is the natural law, according to Rom.
2:14, 15: "(The Gentiles) do by nature those things that are of the law . . . who have [Vulg.:
'show'] the work of the law written in their hearts." If therefore the law of the Gospel were
instilled in our hearts, it would not be distinct from the law of nature.

Obj. 3: Further, the law of the Gospel is proper to those who are in the state of the New Testament.
Therefore the New Law is not instilled in our hearts.

On the contrary, The New Law is the law of the New Testament. But the law of the New Testament
is instilled in our hearts. For the Apostle, quoting the authority of Jeremiah 31:31, 33: "Behold
the days shall come, saith the Lord; and I will perfect unto the house of Israel, and unto
the house of Judah, a new testament," says, explaining what this statement is (Heb. 8:8, 10):
"For this is the testament which I will make to the house of Israel . . . by giving [Vulg.:
'I will give'] My laws into their mind, and in their heart will I write them." Therefore the
New Law is instilled in our hearts.

I answer that, "Each thing appears to be that which preponderates in it," as the Philosopher
states (Ethic. ix, 8). Now that which is preponderant in the law of the New Testament, and
whereon all its efficacy is based, is the grace of the Holy Ghost, which is given through faith
in Christ. Consequently the New Law is chiefly the grace itself of the Holy Ghost, which is
given to those who believe in Christ. This is manifestly stated by the Apostle who says (Rom.
3:27): "Where is . . . thy boasting? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No, but by the
law of faith": for he calls the grace itself of faith "a law." And still more clearly it is
written (Rom. 8:2): "The law of the spirit of life, in Christ Jesus, hath delivered me from
the law of sin and of death." Hence Augustine says (De Spir. et Lit. xxiv) that "as the law
of deeds was written on tables of stone, so is the law of faith inscribed on the hearts of
the faithful": and elsewhere, in the same book (xxi): "What else are the Divine laws written
by God Himself on our hearts, but the very presence of His Holy Spirit?"

Nevertheless the New Law contains certain things that dispose us to receive the grace of the
Holy Ghost, and pertaining to the use of that grace: such things are of secondary importance,
so to speak, in the New Law; and the faithful need to be instructed concerning them, both by
word and writing, both as to what they should believe and as to what they should do. Consequently
we must say that the New Law is in the first place a law that is inscribed on our hearts, but
that secondarily it is a written law.

Reply Obj. 1: The Gospel writings contain only such things as pertain to the grace of the Holy
Ghost, either by disposing us thereto, or by directing us to the use thereof. Thus with regard
to the intellect, the Gospel contains certain matters pertaining to the manifestation of Christ's
Godhead or humanity, which dispose us by means of faith through which we receive the grace
of the Holy Ghost: and with regard to the affections, it contains matters touching the contempt
of the world, whereby man is rendered fit to receive the grace of the Holy Ghost: for "the
world," i.e. worldly men, "cannot receive" the Holy Ghost (John 14:17). As to the use of spiritual
grace, this consists in works of virtue to which the writings of the New Testament exhort men
in divers ways.

Reply Obj. 2: There are two ways in which a thing may be instilled into man. First, through
being part of his nature, and thus the natural law is instilled into man. Secondly, a thing
is instilled into man by being, as it were, added on to his nature by a gift of grace. In this
way the New Law is instilled into man, not only by indicating to him what he should do, but
also by helping him to accomplish it.

Reply Obj. 3: No man ever had the grace of the Holy Ghost except through faith in Christ either
explicit or implicit: and by faith in Christ man belongs to the New Testament. Consequently
whoever had the law of grace instilled into them belonged to the New Testament.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 106, Art. 2]

Whether the New Law Justifies?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law does not justify. For no man is justified unless
he obeys God's law, according to Heb. 5:9: "He," i.e. Christ, "became to all that obey Him
the cause of eternal salvation." But the Gospel does not always cause men to believe in it:
for it is written (Rom. 10:16): "All do not obey the Gospel." Therefore the New Law does not
justify.

Obj. 2: Further, the Apostle proves in his epistle to the Romans that the Old Law did not justify,
because transgression increased at its advent: for it is stated (Rom. 4:15): "The Law worketh
wrath: for where there is no law, neither is there transgression." But much more did the New
Law increase transgression: since he who sins after the giving of the New Law deserves greater
punishment, according to Heb. 10:28, 29: "A man making void the Law of Moses dieth without
any mercy under two or three witnesses. How much more, do you think, he deserveth worse punishments,
who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God," etc.? Therefore the New Law, like the Old Law,
does not justify.

Obj. 3: Further, justification is an effect proper to God, according to Rom. 8:33: "God that
justifieth." But the Old Law was from God just as the New Law. Therefore the New Law does not
justify any more than the Old Law.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 1:16): "I am not ashamed of the Gospel: for it is the
power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth." But there is no salvation but to those
who are justified. Therefore the Law of the Gospel justifies.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), there is a twofold element in the Law of the Gospel.
There is the chief element, viz. the grace of the Holy Ghost bestowed inwardly. And as to this,
the New Law justifies. Hence Augustine says (De Spir. et Lit. xvii): "There," i.e. in the Old
Testament, "the Law was set forth in an outward fashion, that the ungodly might be afraid";
"here," i.e. in the New Testament, "it is given in an inward manner, that they may be justified."
The other element of the Evangelical Law is secondary: namely, the teachings of faith, and
those commandments which direct human affections and human actions. And as to this, the New
Law does not justify. Hence the Apostle says (2 Cor. 3:6) "The letter killeth, but the spirit
quickeneth": and Augustine explains this (De Spir. et Lit. xiv, xvii) by saying that the letter
denotes any writing external to man, even that of the moral precepts such as are contained
in the Gospel. Wherefore the letter, even of the Gospel would kill, unless there were the inward
presence of the healing grace of faith.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument holds true of the New Law, not as to its principal, but as to its
secondary element: i.e. as to the dogmas and precepts outwardly put before man either in words
or in writing.

Reply Obj. 2: Although the grace of the New Testament helps man to avoid sin, yet it does not
so confirm man in good that he cannot sin: for this belongs to the state of glory. Hence if
a man sin after receiving the grace of the New Testament, he deserves greater punishment, as
being ungrateful for greater benefits, and as not using the help given to him. And this is
why the New Law is not said to "work wrath": because as far as it is concerned it gives man
sufficient help to avoid sin.

Reply Obj. 3: The same God gave both the New and the Old Law, but in different ways. For He
gave the Old Law written on tables of stone: whereas He gave the New Law written "in the fleshly
tables of the heart," as the Apostle expresses it (2 Cor. 3:3). Wherefore, as Augustine says
(De Spir. et Lit. xviii), "the Apostle calls this letter which is written outside man, a ministration
of death and a ministration of condemnation: whereas he calls the other letter, i.e. the Law
of the New Testament, the ministration of the spirit and the ministration of justice: because
through the gift of the Spirit we work justice, and are delivered from the condemnation due
to transgression."

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 106, Art. 3]

Whether the New Law Should Have Been Given from the Beginning of the World?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law should have been given from the beginning of the
world. "For there is no respect of persons with God" (Rom. 2:11). But "all" men "have sinned
and do need the glory of God" (Rom. 3:23). Therefore the Law of the Gospel should have been
given from the beginning of the world, in order that it might bring succor to all.

Obj. 2: Further, as men dwell in various places, so do they live in various times. But God,
"Who will have all men to be saved" (1 Tim. 2:4), commanded the Gospel to be preached in all
places, as may be seen in the last chapters of Matthew and Mark. Therefore the Law of the Gospel
should have been at hand for all times, so as to be given from the beginning of the world.

Obj. 3: Further, man needs to save his soul, which is for all eternity, more than to save his
body, which is a temporal matter. But God provided man from the beginning of the world with
things that are necessary for the health of his body, by subjecting to his power whatever was
created for the sake of man (Gen. 1:26-29). Therefore the New Law also, which is very necessary
for the health of the soul, should have been given to man from the beginning of the world.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (1 Cor. 15:46): "That was not first which is spiritual, but
that which is natural." But the New Law is highly spiritual. Therefore it was not fitting for
it to be given from the beginning of the world.

I answer that, Three reasons may be assigned why it was not fitting for the New Law to be given
from the beginning of the world. The first is because the New Law, as stated above (A. 1),
consists chiefly in the grace of the Holy Ghost: which it behoved not to be given abundantly
until sin, which is an obstacle to grace, had been cast out of man through the accomplishment
of his redemption by Christ: wherefore it is written (John 7:39): "As yet the Spirit was not
given, because Jesus was not yet glorified." This reason the Apostle states clearly (Rom. [*St.
Thomas, quoting perhaps from memory, omits the "et" (and), after "sinful flesh." The text quoted
should read thus: "in the likeness of sinful flesh, and a sin offering (peri hamartias), hath,"
etc.]

A second reason may be taken from the perfection of the New Law. Because a thing is not brought
to perfection at once from the outset, but through an orderly succession of time; thus one
is at first a boy, and then a man. And this reason is stated by the Apostle (Gal. 3:24, 25):
"The Law was our pedagogue in Christ that we might be justified by faith. But after the faith
is come, we are no longer under a pedagogue."

The third reason is found in the fact that the New Law is the law of grace: wherefore it behoved
man first of all to be left to himself under the state of the Old Law, so that through falling
into sin, he might realize his weakness, and acknowledge his need of grace. This reason is
set down by the Apostle (Rom. 5:20): "The Law entered in, that sin might abound: and when sin
abounded grace did more abound."

Reply Obj. 1: Mankind on account of the sin of our first parents deserved to be deprived of
the aid of grace: and so "from whom it is withheld it is justly withheld, and to whom it is
given, it is mercifully given," as Augustine states (De Perfect. Justit. iv) [*Cf. Ep. ccvii;
De Pecc. Mer. et Rem. ii, 19]. Consequently it does not follow that there is respect of persons
with God, from the fact that He did not offer the Law of grace to all from the beginning of
the world, which Law was to be published in due course of time, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: The state of mankind does not vary according to diversity of place, but according
to succession of time. Hence the New Law avails for all places, but not for all times: although
at all times there have been some persons belonging to the New Testament, as stated above (A.
1, ad 3).

Reply Obj. 3: Things pertaining to the health of the body are of service to man as regards
his nature, which sin does not destroy: whereas things pertaining to the health of the soul
are ordained to grace, which is forfeit through sin. Consequently the comparison will not hold.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 106, Art. 4]

Whether the New Law Will Last Till the End of the World?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law will not last until the end of the world. Because,
as the Apostle says (1 Cor. 13:10), "when that which is perfect is come, that which is in part
shall be done away." But the New Law is "in part," since the Apostle says (1 Cor. 13:9): "We
know in part and we prophesy in part." Therefore the New Law is to be done away, and will be
succeeded by a more perfect state.

Obj. 2: Further, Our Lord (John 16:13) promised His disciples the knowledge of all truth when
the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, should come. But the Church knows not yet all truth in the state
of the New Testament. Therefore we must look forward to another state, wherein all truth will
be revealed by the Holy Ghost.

Obj. 3: Further, just as the Father is distinct from the Son and the Son from the Father, so
is the Holy Ghost distinct from the Father and the Son. But there was a state corresponding
with the Person of the Father, viz. the state of the Old Law, wherein men were intent on begetting
children: and likewise there is a state corresponding to the Person of the Son: viz. the state
of the New Law, wherein the clergy who are intent on wisdom (which is appropriated to the Son)
hold a prominent place. Therefore there will be a third state corresponding to the Holy Ghost,
wherein spiritual men will hold the first place.

Obj. 4: Further, Our Lord said (Matt. 24:14): "This Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached
in the whole world . . . and then shall the consummation come." But the Gospel of Christ is
already preached throughout the whole world: and yet the consummation has not yet come. Therefore
the Gospel of Christ is not the Gospel of the kingdom, but another Gospel, that of the Holy
Ghost, is to come yet, like unto another Law.

On the contrary, Our Lord said (Matt. 24:34): "I say to you that this generation shall not
pass till all (these) things be done": which passage Chrysostom (Hom. lxxvii) explains as referring
to "the generation of those that believe in Christ." Therefore the state of those who believe
in Christ will last until the consummation of the world.

I answer that, The state of the world may change in two ways. In one way, according to a change
of law: and thus no other state will succeed this state of the New Law. Because the state of
the New Law succeeded the state of the Old Law, as a more perfect law a less perfect one. Now
no state of the present life can be more perfect that the state of the New Law: since nothing
can approach nearer to the last end than that which is the immediate cause of our being brought
to the last end. But the New Law does this: wherefore the Apostle says (Heb. 10:19-22): "Having
therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entering into the Holies by the blood of Christ, a
new . . . way which He hath dedicated for us . . . let us draw near." Therefore no state of
the present life can be more perfect than that of the New Law, since the nearer a thing is
to the last end the more perfect it is.

In another way the state of mankind may change according as man stands in relation to one and
the same law more or less perfectly. And thus the state of the Old Law underwent frequent changes,
since at times the laws were very well kept, and at other times were altogether unheeded. Thus,
too, the state of the New Law is subject to change with regard to various places, times, and
persons, according as the grace of the Holy Ghost dwells in man more or less perfectly. Nevertheless
we are not to look forward to a state wherein man is to possess the grace of the Holy Ghost
more perfectly than he has possessed it hitherto, especially the apostles who "received the
firstfruits of the Spirit, i.e. sooner and more abundantly than others," as a gloss expounds
on Rom. 8:23.

Reply Obj. 1: As Dionysius says (Eccl. Hier. v), there is a threefold state of mankind; the
first was under the Old Law; the second is that of the New Law; the third will take place not
in this life, but in heaven.

Reply Obj. 2: As Augustine says (Contra Faust. xix, 31), Montanus and Priscilla pretended that
Our Lord's promise to give the Holy Ghost was fulfilled, not in the apostles, but in themselves.
In like manner the Manicheans maintained that it was fulfilled in Manes whom they held to be
the Paraclete. Hence none of the above received the Acts of the Apostles, where it is clearly
shown that the aforesaid promise was fulfilled in the apostles: just as Our Lord promised them
a second time (Acts 1:5): "You shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence":
which we read as having been fulfilled in Acts 2. However, these foolish notions are refuted
by the statement (John 7:39) that "as yet the Spirit was not given, because Jesus was not yet
glorified"; from which we gather that the Holy Ghost was given as soon as Christ was glorified
in His Resurrection and Ascension. Moreover, this puts out of court the senseless idea that
the Holy Ghost is to be expected to come at some other time.

Now the Holy Ghost taught the apostles all truth in respect of matters necessary for salvation;
those things, to wit, that we are bound to believe and to do. But He did not teach them about
all future events: for this did not regard them according to Acts 1:7: "It is not for you to
know the times or moments which the Father hath put in His own power."

Reply Obj. 3: The Old Law corresponded not only to the Father, but also to the Son: because
Christ was foreshadowed in the Old Law. Hence Our Lord said (John 5:46): "If you did believe
Moses, you would perhaps believe me also; for he wrote of Me."

Reply Obj. 4: Since Christ said at the very outset of the preaching of the Gospel: "The kingdom
of heaven is at hand" (Matt. 4:17), it is most absurd to say that the Gospel of Christ is not
the Gospel of the kingdom. But the preaching of the Gospel of Christ may be understood in two
ways. First, as denoting the spreading abroad of the knowledge of Christ: and thus the Gospel
was preached throughout the world even at the time of the apostles, as Chrysostom states (Hom.
lxxv in Matth.). And in this sense the words that follow--"and then shall the consummation
come," refer to the destruction of Jerusalem, of which He was speaking literally. Secondly,
the preaching of the Gospel may be understood as extending throughout the world and producing
its full effect, so that, to wit, the Church would be founded in every nation. And in these
sense, as Augustine writes to Hesychius (Epist. cxcix), the Gospel is not preached to the whole
world yet, but, when it is, the consummation of the world will come.

QUESTION 107

OF THE NEW LAW AS COMPARED WITH THE OLD (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the New Law as compared with the Old: under which head there are four
points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the New Law is distinct from the Old Law?

(2) Whether the New Law fulfils the Old?

(3) Whether the New Law is contained in the Old?

(4) Which is the more burdensome, the New or the Old Law?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 107, Art. 1]

Whether the New Law Is Distinct from the Old Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law is not distinct from the Old. Because both these
laws were given to those who believe in God: since "without faith it is impossible to please
God," according to Heb. 11:6. But the faith of olden times and of nowadays is the same, as
the gloss says on Matt. 21:9. Therefore the law is the same also.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (Contra Adamant. Manich. discip. xvii) that "there is little
difference between the Law and Gospel" (Deut. 6:5). In like manner neither can they differ
according to the other difference which Augustine assigns (Contra Faust. iv, 2), viz. that
"the Old Testament contained temporal promises, whereas the New Testament contains spiritual
and eternal promises": since even the New Testament contains temporal promises, according to
Mk. 10:30: He shall receive "a hundred times as much . . . in this time, houses and brethren,"
etc.: while in the Old Testament they hoped in promises spiritual and eternal, according to
Heb. 11:16: "But now they desire a better, that is to say, a heavenly country," which is said
of the patriarchs. Therefore it seems that the New Law is not distinct from the Old.

Obj. 3: Further, the Apostle seems to distinguish both laws by calling the Old Law "a law of
works," and the New Law "a law of faith" (Rom. 3:27). But the Old Law was also a law of faith,
according to Heb. 11:39: "All were [Vulg.: 'All these being'] approved by the testimony of
faith," which he says of the fathers of the Old Testament. In like manner the New Law is a
law of works: since it is written (Matt. 5:44): "Do good to them that hate you"; and (Luke
22:19): "Do this for a commemoration of Me." Therefore the New Law is not distinct from the
Old. Therefore the Law is also distinct.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 90, A. 2; Q. 91, A. 4), every law ordains human conduct
to some end. Now things ordained to an end may be divided in two ways, considered from the
point of view of the end. First, through being ordained to different ends: and this difference
will be specific, especially if such ends are proximate. Secondly, by reason of being closely
or remotely connected with the end. Thus it is clear that movements differ in species through
being directed to different terms: while according as one part of a movement is nearer to the
term than another part, the difference of perfect and imperfect movement is assessed.

Accordingly then two laws may be distinguished from one another in two ways. First, through
being altogether diverse, from the fact that they are ordained to diverse ends: thus a state-law
ordained to democratic government, would differ specifically from a law ordained to government
by the aristocracy. Secondly, two laws may be distinguished from one another, through one of
them being more closely connected with the end, and the other more remotely: thus in one and
the same state there is one law enjoined on men of mature age, who can forthwith accomplish
that which pertains to the common good; and another law regulating the education of children
who need to be taught how they are to achieve manly deeds later on.

We must therefore say that, according to the first way, the New Law is not distinct from the
Old Law: because they both have the same end, namely, man's subjection to God; and there is
but one God of the New and of the Old Testament, according to Rom. 3:30: "It is one God that
justifieth circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith." According to the second
way, the New Law is distinct from the Old Law: because the Old Law is like a pedagogue of children,
as the Apostle says (Gal. 3:24), whereas the New Law is the law of perfection, since it is
the law of charity, of which the Apostle says (Col. 3:14) that it is "the bond of perfection."

Reply Obj. 1: The unity of faith under both Testaments witnesses to the unity of end: for it
has been stated above (Q. 62, A. 2) that the object of the theological virtues, among which
is faith, is the last end. Yet faith had a different state in the Old and in the New Law: since
what they believed as future, we believe as fact.

Reply Obj. 2: All the differences assigned between the Old and New Laws are gathered from their
relative perfection and imperfection. For the precepts of every law prescribe acts of virtue.
Now the imperfect, who as yet are not possessed of a virtuous habit, are directed in one way
to perform virtuous acts, while those who are perfected by the possession of virtuous habits
are directed in another way. For those who as yet are not endowed with virtuous habits, are
directed to the performance of virtuous acts by reason of some outward cause: for instance,
by the threat of punishment, or the promise of some extrinsic rewards, such as honor, riches,
or the like. Hence the Old Law, which was given to men who were imperfect, that is, who had
not yet received spiritual grace, was called the "law of fear," inasmuch as it induced men
to observe its commandments by threatening them with penalties; and is spoken of as containing
temporal promises. On the other hand, those who are possessed of virtue, are inclined to do
virtuous deeds through love of virtue, not on account of some extrinsic punishment or reward.
Hence the New Law which derives its pre-eminence from the spiritual grace instilled into our
hearts, is called the "Law of love": and it is described as containing spiritual and eternal
promises, which are objects of the virtues, chiefly of charity. Accordingly such persons are
inclined of themselves to those objects, not as to something foreign but as to something of
their own. For this reason, too, the Old Law is described as "restraining the hand, not the
will" [*Peter Lombard, Sent. iii, D, 40]; since when a man refrains from some sins through
fear of being punished, his will does not shrink simply from sin, as does the will of a man
who refrains from sin through love of righteousness: and hence the New Law, which is the Law
of love, is said to restrain the will.

Nevertheless there were some in the state of the Old Testament who, having charity and the
grace of the Holy Ghost, looked chiefly to spiritual and eternal promises: and in this respect
they belonged to the New Law. In like manner in the New Testament there are some carnal men
who have not yet attained to the perfection of the New Law; and these it was necessary, even
under the New Testament, to lead to virtuous action by the fear of punishment and by temporal
promises.

But although the Old Law contained precepts of charity, nevertheless it did not confer the
Holy Ghost by Whom "charity . . . is spread abroad in our hearts" (Rom. 5:5).

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 106, AA. 1, 2), the New Law is called the law of faith, in
so far as its pre-eminence is derived from that very grace which is given inwardly to believers,
and for this reason is called the grace of faith. Nevertheless it consists secondarily in certain
deeds, moral and sacramental: but the New Law does not consist chiefly in these latter things,
as did the Old Law. As to those under the Old Testament who through faith were acceptable to
God, in this respect they belonged to the New Testament: for they were not justified except
through faith in Christ, Who is the Author of the New Testament. Hence of Moses the Apostle
says (Heb. 11:26) that he esteemed "the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasure
of the Egyptians."

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 107, Art. 2]

Whether the New Law Fulfils the Old?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law does not fulfil the Old. Because to fulfil and
to void are contrary. But the New Law voids or excludes the observances of the Old Law: for
the Apostle says (Gal. 5:2): "If you be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing." Therefore
the New Law is not a fulfilment of the Old.

Obj. 2: Further, one contrary is not the fulfilment of another. But Our Lord propounded in
the New Law precepts that were contrary to precepts of the Old Law. For we read (Matt. 5:27-32):
"You have heard that it was said to them of old: . . . 'Whosoever shall put away his wife,
let him give her a bill of divorce. But I say to you that whosoever shall put away his wife
. . . maketh her to commit adultery.'" Furthermore, the same evidently applies to the prohibition
against swearing, against retaliation, and against hating one's enemies. In like manner Our
Lord seems to have done away with the precepts of the Old Law relating to the different kinds
of foods (Matt. Therefore the New Law is not a fulfilment of the Old.

Obj. 3: Further, whoever acts against a law does not fulfil the law. But Christ in certain
cases acted against the Law. For He touched the leper (Matt. 8:3), which was contrary to the
Law. Likewise He seems to have frequently broken the sabbath; since the Jews used to say of
Him (John 9:16): "This man is not of God, who keepeth not the sabbath." Therefore Christ did
not fulfil the Law: and so the New Law given by Christ is not a fulfilment of the Old.

Obj. 4: Further, the Old Law contained precepts, moral, ceremonial, and judicial, as stated
above (Q. 99, A. 4). But Our Lord (Matt. 5) fulfilled the Law in some respects, but without
mentioning the judicial and ceremonial precepts. Therefore it seems that the New Law is not
a complete fulfilment of the Old.

On the contrary, Our Lord said (Matt. 5:17): "I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil": and
went on to say (Matt. 5:18): "One jot or one tittle shall not pass of the Law till all be fulfilled."

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), the New Law is compared to the Old as the perfect to
the imperfect. Now everything perfect fulfils that which is lacking in the imperfect. And accordingly
the New Law fulfils the Old by supplying that which was lacking in the Old Law.

Now two things in the Old Law offer themselves to our consideration: viz., the end, and the
precepts contained in the Law.

Now the end of every law is to make men righteous and virtuous, as was stated above (Q. 92,
A. 1): and consequently the end of the Old Law was the justification of men. The Law, however,
could not accomplish this: but foreshadowed it by certain ceremonial actions, and promised
it in words. And in this respect, the New Law fulfils the Old by justifying men through the
power of Christ's Passion. This is what the Apostle says (Rom. 8:3, 4): "What the Law could
not do . . . And in this respect, the New Law gives what the Old Law promised, according to
2 Cor. 1:20: "Whatever are the promises of God, in Him," i.e. in Christ, "they are 'Yea'."
[*The Douay version reads thus: "All the promises of God are in Him, 'It is'."] Again, in this
respect, it also fulfils what the Old Law foreshadowed. Hence it is written (Col. 2:17) concerning
the ceremonial precepts that they were "a shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ";
in other words, the reality is found in Christ. Wherefore the New Law is called the law of
reality; whereas the Old Law is called the law of shadow or of figure.

Now Christ fulfilled the precepts of the Old Law both in His works and in His doctrine. In
His works, because He was willing to be circumcised and to fulfil the other legal observances,
which were binding for the time being; according to Gal. 4:4: "Made under the Law." In His
doctrine He fulfilled the precepts of the Law in three ways. First, by explaining the true
sense of the Law. This is clear in the case of murder and adultery, the prohibition of which
the Scribes and Pharisees thought to refer only to the exterior act: wherefore Our Lord fulfilled
the Law by showing that the prohibition extended also to the interior acts of sins. Secondly,
Our Lord fulfilled the precepts of the Law by prescribing the safest way of complying with
the statutes of the Old Law. Thus the Old Law forbade perjury: and this is more safely avoided,
by abstaining altogether from swearing, save in cases of urgency. Thirdly, Our Lord fulfilled
the precepts of the Law, by adding some counsels of perfection: this is clearly seen in Matt.
19:21, where Our Lord said to the man who affirmed that he had kept all the precepts of the
Old Law: "One thing is wanting to thee: If thou wilt be perfect, go, sell whatsoever thou hast,"
etc. [*St. Thomas combines Matt. 19:21 with Mk. 10:21].

Reply Obj. 1: The New Law does not void observance of the Old Law except in the point of ceremonial
precepts, as stated above (Q. 103, AA. 3, 4). Now the latter were figurative of something to
come. Wherefore from the very fact that the ceremonial precepts were fulfilled when those things
were accomplished which they foreshadowed, it follows that they are no longer to be observed:
for if they were to be observed, this would mean that something is still to be accomplished
and is not yet fulfilled. Thus the promise of a future gift holds no longer when it has been
fulfilled by the presentation of the gift. In this way the legal ceremonies are abolished by
being fulfilled.

Reply Obj. 2: As Augustine says (Contra Faust. xix, 26), those precepts of Our Lord are not
contrary to the precepts of the Old Law. For what Our Lord commanded about a man not putting
away his wife, is not contrary to what the Law prescribed. "For the Law did not say: 'Let him
that wills, put his wife away': the contrary of which would be not to put her away. On the
contrary, the Law was unwilling that a man should put away his wife, since it prescribed a
delay, so that excessive eagerness for divorce might cease through being weakened during the
writing of the bill. Hence Our Lord, in order to impress the fact that a wife ought not easily
to be put away, allowed no exception save in the case of fornication." The same applies to
the prohibition about swearing, as stated above. The same is also clear with respect to the
prohibition of retaliation. For the Law fixed a limit to revenge, by forbidding men to seek
vengeance unreasonably: whereas Our Lord deprived them of vengeance more completely by commanding
them to abstain from it altogether. With regard to the hatred of one's enemies, He dispelled
the false interpretation of the Pharisees, by admonishing us to hate, not the person, but his
sin. As to discriminating between various foods, which was a ceremonial matter, Our Lord did
not forbid this to be observed: but He showed that no foods are naturally unclean, but only
in token of something else, as stated above (Q. 102, A. 6, ad 1).

Reply Obj. 3: It was forbidden by the Law to touch a leper; because by doing so, man incurred
a certain uncleanness of irregularity, as also by touching the dead, as stated above (Q. 102,
A. 5, ad 4). But Our Lord, Who healed the leper, could not contract an uncleanness. By those
things which He did on the sabbath, He did not break the sabbath in reality, as the Master
Himself shows in the Gospel: both because He worked miracles by His Divine power, which is
ever active among things; and because His works were concerned with the salvation of man, while
the Pharisees were concerned for the well-being of animals even on the sabbath; and again because
on account of urgency He excused His disciples for gathering the ears of corn on the sabbath.
But He did seem to break the sabbath according to the superstitious interpretation of the Pharisees,
who thought that man ought to abstain from doing even works of kindness on the sabbath; which
was contrary to the intention of the Law.

Reply Obj. 4: The reason why the ceremonial precepts of the Law are not mentioned in Matt.
5 is because, as stated above (ad 1), their observance was abolished by their fulfilment. But
of the judicial precepts He mentioned that of retaliation: so that what He said about it should
refer to all the others. With regard to this precept, He taught that the intention of the Law
was that retaliation should be sought out of love of justice, and not as a punishment out of
revengeful spite, which He forbade, admonishing man to be ready to suffer yet greater insults;
and this remains still in the New Law.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 107, Art. 3]

Whether the New Law Is Contained in the Old?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law is not contained in the Old. Because the New Law
consists chiefly in faith: wherefore it is called the "law of faith" (Rom. 3:27). But many
points of faith are set forth in the New Law, which are not contained in the Old. Therefore
the New Law is not contained in the Old.

Obj. 2: Further, a gloss says on Matt. 5:19, "He that shall break one of these least commandments,"
that the lesser commandments are those of the Law, and the greater commandments, those contained
in the Gospel. Now the greater cannot be contained in the lesser. Therefore the New Law is
not contained in the Old.

Obj. 3: Further, who holds the container holds the contents. If, therefore, the New Law is
contained in the Old, it follows that whoever had the Old Law had the New: so that it was superfluous
to give men a New Law when once they had the Old. Therefore the New Law is not contained in
the Old.

On the contrary, As expressed in Ezech. 1:16, there was "a wheel in the midst of a wheel,"
i.e. "the New Testament within the Old," according to Gregory's exposition.

I answer that, One thing may be contained in another in two ways. First, actually; as a located
thing is in a place. Secondly, virtually; as an effect in its cause, or as the complement in
that which is incomplete; thus a genus contains its species, and a seed contains the whole
tree, virtually. It is in this way that the New Law is contained in the Old: for it has been
stated (A. 1) that the New Law is compared to the Old as perfect to imperfect. Hence Chrysostom,
expounding Mk. Hence then the New Law is in the Old as the corn in the ear.

Reply Obj. 1: Whatsoever is set down in the New Testament explicitly and openly as a point
of faith, is contained in the Old Testament as a matter of belief, but implicitly, under a
figure. And accordingly, even as to those things which we are bound to believe, the New Law
is contained in the Old.

Reply Obj. 2: The precepts of the New Law are said to be greater than those of the Old Law,
in the point of their being set forth explicitly. But as to the substance itself of the precepts
of the New Testament, they are all contained in the Old. Hence Augustine says (Contra Faust.
xix, 23, 28) that "nearly all Our Lord's admonitions or precepts, where He expressed Himself
by saying: 'But I say unto you,' are to be found also in those ancient books. Yet, since they
thought that murder was only the slaying of the human body, Our Lord declared to them that
every wicked impulse to hurt our brother is to be looked on as a kind of murder." And it is
in the point of declarations of this kind that the precepts of the New Law are said to be greater
than those of the Old. Nothing, however, prevents the greater from being contained in the lesser
virtually; just as a tree is contained in the seed.

Reply Obj. 3: What is set forth implicitly needs to be declared explicitly. Hence after the
publishing of the Old Law, a New Law also had to be given.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 107, Art. 4]

Whether the New Law Is More Burdensome Than the Old?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law is more burdensome than the Old. For Chrysostom
(Opus Imp. in Matth., Hom. x [*The work of an unknown author]) say: "The commandments given
to Moses are easy to obey: Thou shalt not kill; Thou shalt not commit adultery: but the commandments
of Christ are difficult to accomplish, for instance: Thou shalt not give way to anger, or to
lust." Therefore the New Law is more burdensome than the Old.

Obj. 2: Further, it is easier to make use of earthly prosperity than to suffer tribulations.
But in the Old Testament observance of the Law was followed by temporal prosperity, as may
be gathered from Deut. 28:1-14; whereas many kinds of trouble ensue to those who observe the
New Law, as stated in 2 Cor. 6:4-10: "Let us exhibit ourselves as the ministers of God, in
much patience, in tribulation, in necessities, in distresses," etc. Therefore the New Law is
more burdensome than the Old.

Obj. 3: The more one has to do, the more difficult it is. But the New Law is something added
to the Old. For the Old Law forbade perjury, while the New Law proscribed even swearing: the
Old Law forbade a man to cast off his wife without a bill of divorce, while the New Law forbade
divorce altogether; as is clearly stated in Matt. 5:31, seqq., according to Augustine's expounding.
Therefore the New Law is more burdensome than the Old.

On the contrary, It is written (Matt. 11:28): "Come to Me, all you that labor and are burdened":
which words are expounded by Hilary thus: "He calls to Himself all those that labor under the
difficulty of observing the Law, and are burdened with the sins of this world." And further
on He says of the yoke of the Gospel: "For My yoke is sweet and My burden light." Therefore
the New Law is a lighter burden than the Old.

I answer that, A twofold difficulty may attach to works of virtue with which the precepts of
the Law are concerned. One is on the part of the outward works, which of themselves are, in
a way, difficult and burdensome. And in this respect the Old Law is a much heavier burden than
the New: since the Old Law by its numerous ceremonies prescribed many more outward acts than
the New Law, which, in the teaching of Christ and the apostles, added very few precepts to
those of the natural law; although afterwards some were added, through being instituted by
the holy Fathers. Even in these Augustine says that moderation should be observed, lest good
conduct should become a burden to the faithful. For he says in reply to the queries of Januarius
(Ep. lv) that, "whereas God in His mercy wished religion to be a free service rendered by the
public solemnization of a small number of most manifest sacraments, certain persons make it
a slave's burden; so much so that the state of the Jews who were subject to the sacraments
of the Law, and not to the presumptuous devices of man, was more tolerable."

The other difficulty attaches to works of virtue as to interior acts: for instance, that a
virtuous deed be done with promptitude and pleasure. It is this difficulty that virtue solves:
because to act thus is difficult for a man without virtue: but through virtue it becomes easy
for him. In this respect the precepts of the New Law are more burdensome than those of the
Old; because the New Law prohibits certain interior movements of the soul, which were not expressly
forbidden in the Old Law in all cases, although they were forbidden in some, without, however,
any punishment being attached to the prohibition. Now this is very difficult to a man without
virtue: thus even the Philosopher states (Ethic. v, 9) that it is easy to do what a righteous
man does; but that to do it in the same way, viz. with pleasure and promptitude, is difficult
to a man who is not righteous. Accordingly we read also (1 John 5:3) that "His commandments
are not heavy": which words Augustine expounds by saying that "they are not heavy to the man
that loveth; whereas they are a burden to him that loveth not."

Reply Obj. 1: The passage quoted speaks expressly of the difficulty of the New Law as to the
deliberate curbing of interior movements.

Reply Obj. 2: The tribulations suffered by those who observe the New Law are not imposed by
the Law itself. Moreover they are easily borne, on account of the love in which the same Law
consists: since, as Augustine says (De Verb. Dom., Serm. lxx), "love makes light and nothing
of things that seem arduous and beyond our power."

Reply Obj. 3: The object of these additions to the precepts of the Old Law was to render it
easier to do what it prescribed, as Augustine states [*De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 17, 21; xix,
23, 26]. Accordingly this does not prove that the New Law is more burdensome, but rather that
it is a lighter burden.

QUESTION 108

OF THOSE THINGS THAT ARE CONTAINED IN THE NEW LAW (In Four Articles)

We must now consider those things that are contained in the New Law: under which head there
are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the New Law ought to prescribe or to forbid any outward works?

(2) Whether the New Law makes sufficient provision in prescribing and forbidding external acts?

(3) Whether in the matter of internal acts it directs man sufficiently?

(4) Whether it fittingly adds counsels to precepts?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 108, Art. 1]

Whether the New Law Ought to Prescribe or Prohibit Any External Acts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law should not prescribe or prohibit any external acts.
For the New Law is the Gospel of the kingdom, according to Matt. 24:14: "This Gospel of the
kingdom shall be preached in the whole world." Therefore the New Law should not prescribe or
forbid any external acts.

Obj. 2: Further, the New Law is "the law of the Spirit" (Rom. 8:2). But "where the Spirit of
the Lord is, there is liberty" (2 Cor. 3:17). Now there is no liberty when man is bound to
do or avoid certain external acts. Therefore the New Law does not prescribe or forbid any external
acts.

Obj. 3: Further, all external acts are understood as referable to the hand, just as interior
acts belong to the mind. But this is assigned as the difference between the New and Old Laws
that the "Old Law restrains the hand, whereas the New Law curbs the will" [*Peter Lombard,
Sent. iii, D, 40]. Therefore the New Law should not contain prohibitions and commands about
exterior deeds, but only about interior acts.

On the contrary, Through the New Law, men are made "children of light": wherefore it is written
(John 12:36): "Believe in the light that you may be the children of light." Now it is becoming
that children of the light should do deeds of light and cast aside deeds of darkness, according
to Eph. Therefore the New Law had to forbid certain external acts and prescribe others.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 106, AA. 1, 2), the New Law consists chiefly in the grace
of the Holy Ghost, which is shown forth by faith that worketh through love. Now men become
receivers of this grace through God's Son made man, Whose humanity grace filled first, and
thence flowed forth to us. Hence it is written (John 1:14): "The Word was made flesh," and
afterwards: "full of grace and truth"; and further on: "Of His fulness we all have received,
and grace for grace." Hence it is added that "grace and truth came by Jesus Christ." Consequently
it was becoming that the grace which flows from the incarnate Word should be given to us by
means of certain external sensible objects; and that from this inward grace, whereby the flesh
is subjected to the Spirit, certain external works should ensue.

Accordingly external acts may have a twofold connection with grace. In the first place, as
leading in some way to grace. Such are the sacramental acts which are instituted in the New
Law, e.g. Baptism, the Eucharist, and the like.

In the second place there are those external acts which ensue from the promptings of grace:
and herein we must observe a difference. For there are some which are necessarily in keeping
with, or in opposition to inward grace consisting in faith that worketh through love. Such
external works are prescribed or forbidden in the New Law; thus confession of faith is prescribed,
and denial of faith is forbidden; for it is written (Matt. 10:32, 33) "(Every one) that shall
confess Me before men, I will also confess him before My Father . . . But he that shall deny
Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father." On the other hand, there are works which
are not necessarily opposed to, or in keeping with faith that worketh through love. Such works
are not prescribed or forbidden in the New Law, by virtue of its primitive institution; but
have been left by the Lawgiver, i.e. Christ, to the discretion of each individual. And so to
each one it is free to decide what he should do or avoid; and to each superior, to direct his
subjects in such matters as regards what they must do or avoid. Wherefore also in this respect
the Gospel is called the "law of liberty" [*Cf. Reply Obj. 2]: since the Old Law decided many
points and left few to man to decide as he chose.

Reply Obj. 1: The kingdom of God consists chiefly in internal acts: but as a consequence all
things that are essential to internal acts belong also to the kingdom of God. Thus if the kingdom
of God is internal righteousness, peace, and spiritual joy, all external acts that are incompatible
with righteousness, peace, and spiritual joy, are in opposition to the kingdom of God; and
consequently should be forbidden in the Gospel of the kingdom. On the other hand, those things
that are indifferent as regards the aforesaid, for instance, to eat of this or that food, are
not part of the kingdom of God; wherefore the Apostle says before the words quoted: "The kingdom
of God is not meat and drink."

Reply Obj. 2: According to the Philosopher (Metaph. i, 2), what is "free is cause of itself."
Therefore he acts freely, who acts of his own accord. Now man does of his own accord that which
he does from a habit that is suitable to his nature: since a habit inclines one as a second
nature. If, however, a habit be in opposition to nature, man would not act according to his
nature, but according to some corruption affecting that nature. Since then the grace of the
Holy Ghost is like an interior habit bestowed on us and inclining us to act aright, it makes
us do freely those things that are becoming to grace, and shun what is opposed to it.

Accordingly the New Law is called the law of liberty in two respects. First, because it does
not bind us to do or avoid certain things, except such as are of themselves necessary or opposed
to salvation, and come under the prescription or prohibition of the law. Secondly, because
it also makes us comply freely with these precepts and prohibitions, inasmuch as we do so through
the promptings of grace. It is for these two reasons that the New Law is called "the law of
perfect liberty" (James 1:25).

Reply Obj. 3: The New Law, by restraining the mind from inordinate movements, must needs also
restrain the hand from inordinate acts, which ensue from inward movements.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 108, Art. 2]

Whether the New Law Made Sufficient Ordinations About External Acts?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law made insufficient ordinations about external acts.
Because faith that worketh through charity seems chiefly to belong to the New Law, according
to Gal. 5:6: "In Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision: but
faith that worketh through charity." But the New Law declared explicitly certain points of
faith which were not set forth explicitly in the Old Law; for instance, belief in the Trinity.
Therefore it should also have added certain outward moral deeds, which were not fixed in the
Old Law.

Obj. 2: Further, in the Old Law not only were sacraments instituted, but also certain sacred
things, as stated above (Q. 101, A. 4; Q. 102, A. 4). But in the New Law, although certain
sacraments are instituted by Our Lord; for instance, pertaining either to the sanctification
of a temple or of the vessels, or to the celebration of some particular feast. Therefore the
New Law made insufficient ordinations about external matters.

Obj. 3: Further, in the Old Law, just as there were certain observances pertaining to God's
ministers, so also were there certain observances pertaining to the people: as was stated above
when we were treating of the ceremonial of the Old Law (Q. 101, A. 4; Q. 102, A. 6). Therefore
certain observances pertaining to the faithful should also have been instituted in the New Law.

Obj. 4: Further, in the Old Law, besides moral and ceremonial precepts, there were certain
judicial precepts. But in the New Law there are no judicial precepts. Therefore the New Law
made insufficient ordinations about external works.

On the contrary, Our Lord said (Matt. 7:24): "Every one . . . that heareth these My words,
and doth them, shall be likened to a wise man that built his house upon a rock." But a wise
builder leaves out nothing that is necessary to the building. Therefore Christ's words contain
all things necessary for man's salvation.

I answer that, as stated above (A. 1), the New Law had to make such prescriptions or prohibitions
alone as are essential for the reception or right use of grace. And since we cannot of ourselves
obtain grace, but through Christ alone, hence Christ of Himself instituted the sacraments whereby
we obtain grace: viz. Baptism, Eucharist, Orders of the ministers of the New Law, by the institution
of the apostles and seventy-two disciples, Penance, and indissoluble Matrimony. He promised
Confirmation through the sending of the Holy Ghost: and we read that by His institution the
apostles healed the sick by anointing them with oil (Mk. 6:13). These are the sacraments of
the New Law.

The right use of grace is by means of works of charity. These, in so far as they are essential
to virtue, pertain to the moral precepts, which also formed part of the Old Law. Hence, in
this respect, the New Law had nothing to add as regards external action. The determination
of these works in their relation to the divine worship, belongs to the ceremonial precepts
of the Law; and, in relation to our neighbor, to the judicial precepts, as stated above (Q.
99, A. 4). And therefore, since these determinations are not in themselves necessarily connected
with inward grace wherein the Law consists, they do not come under a precept of the New Law,
but are left to the decision of man; some relating to inferiors--as when a precept is given
to an individual; others, relating to superiors, temporal or spiritual, referring, namely,
to the common good.

Accordingly the New Law had no other external works to determine, by prescribing or forbidding,
except the sacraments, and those moral precepts which have a necessary connection with virtue,
for instance, that one must not kill, or steal, and so forth.

Reply Obj. 1: Matters of faith are above human reason, and so we cannot attain to them except
through grace. Consequently, when grace came to be bestowed more abundantly, the result was
an increase in the number of explicit points of faith. On the other hand, it is through human
reason that we are directed to works of virtue, for it is the rule of human action, as stated
above (Q. 19, A. 3; Q. 63, A. 2). Wherefore in such matters as these there was no need for
any precepts to be given besides the moral precepts of the Law, which proceed from the dictate
of reason.

Reply Obj. 2: In the sacraments of the New Law grace is bestowed, which cannot be received
except through Christ: consequently they had to be instituted by Him. But in the sacred things
no grace is given: for instance, in the consecration of a temple, an altar or the like, or,
again, in the celebration of feasts. Wherefore Our Lord left the institution of such things
to the discretion of the faithful, since they have not of themselves any necessary connection
with inward grace.

Reply Obj. 3: Our Lord gave the apostles those precepts not as ceremonial observances, but
as moral statutes: and they can be understood in two ways. First, following Augustine (De Consensu
Evang. 30), as being not commands but permissions. For He permitted them to set forth to preach
without scrip or stick, and so on, since they were empowered to accept their livelihood from
those to whom they preached: wherefore He goes on to say: "For the laborer is worthy of his
hire." Nor is it a sin, but a work of supererogation for a preacher to take means of livelihood
with him, without accepting supplies from those to whom he preaches; as Paul did (1 Cor. 9:4,
seqq.).

Secondly, according to the explanation of other holy men, they may be considered as temporal
commands laid upon the apostles for the time during which they were sent to preach in Judea
before Christ's Passion. For the disciples, being yet as little children under Christ's care,
needed to receive some special commands from Christ, such as all subjects receive from their
superiors: and especially so, since they were to be accustomed little by little to renounce
the care of temporalities, so as to become fitted for the preaching of the Gospel throughout
the whole world. Nor must we wonder if He established certain fixed modes of life, as long
as the state of the Old Law endured and the people had not as yet achieved the perfect liberty
of the Spirit. These statutes He abolished shortly before His Passion, as though the disciples
had by their means become sufficiently practiced. Hence He said (Luke 22:35, 36) "When I sent
you without purse and scrip and shoes, did you want anything? But they said: Nothing. Then
said He unto them: But now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise a scrip." Because
the time of perfect liberty was already at hand, when they would be left entirely to their
own judgment in matters not necessarily connected with virtue.

Reply Obj. 4: Judicial precepts also, are not essential to virtue in respect of any particular
determination, but only in regard to the common notion of justice. Consequently Our Lord left
the judicial precepts to the discretion of those who were to have spiritual or temporal charge
of others. But as regards the judicial precepts of the Old Law, some of them He explained,
because they were misunderstood by the Pharisees, as we shall state later on (A. 3, ad 2).

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 108, Art. 3]

Whether the New Law Directed Man Sufficiently As Regards Interior Actions?

Objection 1: It would seem that the New Law directed man insufficiently as regards interior
actions. For there are ten commandments of the decalogue directing man to God and his neighbor.
But Our Lord partly fulfilled only three of them: as regards, namely, the prohibition of murder,
of adultery, and of perjury. Therefore it seems that, by omitting to fulfil the other precepts,
He directed man insufficiently.

Obj. 2: Further, as regards the judicial precepts, Our Lord ordained nothing in the Gospel,
except in the matter of divorcing a wife, of punishment by retaliation, and of persecuting
one's enemies. But there are many other judicial precepts of the Old Law, as stated above (Q.
104, A. 4; Q. 105). Therefore, in this respect, He directed human life insufficiently.

Obj. 3: Further, in the Old Law, besides moral and judicial, there were ceremonial precepts
about which Our Lord made no ordination. Therefore it seems that He ordained insufficiently.

Obj. 4: Further, in order that the mind be inwardly well disposed, man should do no good deed
for any temporal end whatever. But there are many other temporal goods besides the favor of
man: and there are many other good works besides fasting, alms-deeds, and prayer. Therefore
Our Lord unbecomingly taught that only in respect of these three works, and of no other earthly
goods ought we to shun the glory of human favor.

Obj. But every command issued against the inclination of nature is an unjust command, forasmuch
as it is contrary to the law of nature. Therefore it seems that Our Lord unbecomingly forbade
solicitude about food and raiment.

Obj. 6: Further, no act of virtue should be the subject of a prohibition. Now judgment is an
act of justice, according to Ps. 18:15: "Until justice be turned into judgment." Therefore
it seems that Our Lord unbecomingly forbade judgment: and consequently that the New Law directed
man insufficiently in the matter of interior acts.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 1): We should take note that, when
He said: "'He that heareth these My words,' He indicates clearly that this sermon of the Lord
is replete with all the precepts whereby a Christian's life is formed."

I answer that, As is evident from Augustine's words just quoted, the sermon, which Our Lord
delivered on the mountain, contains the whole process of forming the life of a Christian. Therein
man's interior movements are ordered. Because after declaring that his end is Beatitude; and
after commending the authority of the apostles, through whom the teaching of the Gospel was
to be promulgated, He orders man's interior movements, first in regard to man himself, secondly
in regard to his neighbor.

This he does in regard to man himself, in two ways, corresponding to man's two interior movements
in respect of any prospective action, viz. volition of what has to be done, and intention of
the end. Wherefore, in the first place, He directs man's will in respect of the various precepts
of the Law: by prescribing that man should refrain not merely from those external works that
are evil in themselves, but also from internal acts, and from the occasions of evil deeds.
In the second place He directs man's intention, by teaching that in our good works, we should
seek neither human praise, nor worldly riches, which is to lay up treasures on earth.

Afterwards He directs man's interior movement in respect of his neighbor, by forbidding us,
on the one hand, to judge him rashly, unjustly, or presumptuously; and, on the other, to entrust
him too readily with sacred things if he be unworthy.

Lastly, He teaches us how to fulfil the teaching of the Gospel; viz. by imploring the help
of God; by striving to enter by the narrow door of perfect virtue; and by being wary lest we
be led astray by evil influences. Moreover, He declares that we must observe His commandments,
and that it is not enough to make profession of faith, or to work miracles, or merely to hear
His words.

Reply Obj. 1: Our Lord explained the manner of fulfilling those precepts which the Scribes
and Pharisees did not rightly understand: and this affected chiefly those precepts of the decalogue.
For they thought that the prohibition of adultery and murder covered the external act only,
and not the internal desire. And they held this opinion about murder and adultery rather than
about theft and false witness, because the movement of anger tending to murder, and the movement
of desire tending to adultery, seem to be in us from nature somewhat, but not the desire of
stealing or bearing false witness. They held a false opinion about perjury, for they thought
that perjury indeed was a sin; but that oaths were of themselves to be desired and to be taken
frequently, since they seem to proceed from reverence to God. Hence Our Lord shows that an
oath is not desirable as a good thing; and that it is better to speak without oaths, unless
necessity forces us to have recourse to them.

Reply Obj. 2: The Scribes and Pharisees erred about the judicial precepts in two ways. First,
because they considered certain matters contained in the Law of Moses by way of permission,
to be right in themselves: namely, divorce of a wife, and the taking of usury from strangers.
Wherefore Our Lord forbade a man to divorce his wife (Matt. 5:32); and to receive usury (Luke
6:35), when He said: "Lend, hoping for nothing thereby."

In another way they erred by thinking that certain things which the Old Law commanded to be
done for justice's sake, should be done out of desire for revenge, or out of lust for temporal
goods, or out of hatred of one's enemies; and this in respect of three precepts. For they thought
that desire for revenge was lawful, on account of the precept concerning punishment by retaliation:
whereas this precept was given that justice might be safeguarded, not that man might seek revenge.
Wherefore, in order to do away with this, Our Lord teaches that man should be prepared in his
mind to suffer yet more if necessary. They thought that movements of covetousness were lawful
on account of those judicial precepts which prescribed restitution of what had been purloined,
together with something added thereto, as stated above (Q. 105, A. 2, ad 9); whereas the Law
commanded this to be done in order to safeguard justice, not to encourage covetousness. Wherefore
Our Lord teaches that we should not demand our goods from motives of cupidity, and that we
should be ready to give yet more if necessary. They thought that the movement of hatred was
lawful, on account of the commandments of the Law about the slaying of one's enemies: whereas
the Law ordered this for the fulfilment of justice, as stated above (Q. 105, A. 3, ad 4), not
to satisfy hatred. Wherefore Our Lord teaches us that we ought to love our enemies, and to
be ready to do good to them if necessary. For these precepts are to be taken as binding "the
mind to be prepared to fulfil them," as Augustine says (De Serm. Dom. in Monte i, 19).

Reply Obj. 3: The moral precepts necessarily retained their force under the New Law, because
they are of themselves essential to virtue: whereas the judicial precepts did not necessarily
continue to bind in exactly the same way as had been fixed by the Law: this was left to man
to decide in one way or another. Hence Our Lord directed us becomingly with regard to these
two kinds of precepts. On the other hand, the observance of the ceremonial precepts was totally
abolished by the advent of the reality; wherefore in regard to these precepts He commanded
nothing on this occasion when He was giving the general points of His doctrine. Elsewhere,
however, He makes it clear that the entire bodily worship which was fixed by the Law, was to
be changed into spiritual worship: as is evident from John 4:21, 23, where He says: "The hour
cometh when you shall neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem adore the Father . . . but
. . . the true adorers shall adore the Father in spirit and in truth."

Reply Obj. 4: All worldly goods may be reduced to three--honors, riches, and pleasures; according
to 1 John 2:16: "All that is in the world is the concupiscence of the flesh," which refers
to pleasures of the flesh, "and the concupiscence of the eyes," which refers to riches, "and
the pride of life," which refers to ambition for renown and honor. Now the Law did not promise
an abundance of carnal pleasures; on the contrary, it forbade them. But it did promise exalted
honors and abundant riches; for it is written in reference to the former (Deut. 28:11): "He
will make thee abound with all goods." But the Jews so distorted the true meaning of these
promises, as to think that we ought to serve God, with these things as the end in view. Wherefore
Our Lord set this aside by teaching, first of all, that works of virtue should not be done
for human glory. And He mentions three works, to which all others may be reduced: since whatever
a man does in order to curb his desires, comes under the head of fasting; and whatever a man
does for the love of his neighbor, comes under the head of alms-deeds; and whatever a man does
for the worship of God, comes under the head of prayer. And He mentions these three specifically,
as they hold the principal place, and are most often used by men in order to gain glory. In
the second place He taught us that we must not place our end in riches, when He said: "Lay
not up to yourselves treasures on earth" (Matt. 6:19).

Reply Obj. 5: Our Lord forbade, not necessary, but inordinate solicitude. Now there is a fourfold
solicitude to be avoided in temporal matters. First, we must not place our end in them, nor
serve God for the sake of the necessities of food and raiment. Wherefore He says: "Lay not
up for yourselves," etc. Secondly, we must not be so anxious about temporal things, as to despair
of God's help: wherefore Our Lord says (Matt. 6:32): "Your Father knoweth that you have need
of all these things." Thirdly, we must not add presumption to our solicitude; in other words,
we must not be confident of getting the necessaries of life by our own efforts without God's
help: such solicitude Our Lord sets aside by saying that a man cannot add anything to his stature
(Matt. 6:27). We must not anticipate the time for anxiety; namely, by being solicitous now,
for the needs, not of the present, but of a future time: wherefore He says (Matt. 6:34): "Be
not . . . solicitous for tomorrow."

Reply Obj. 6: Our Lord did not forbid the judgment of justice, without which holy things could
not be withdrawn from the unworthy. But he forbade inordinate judgment, as stated above.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 108, Art. 4]

Whether Certain Definite Counsels Are Fittingly Proposed in the New Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that certain definite counsels are not fittingly proposed in the
New Law. For counsels are given about that which is expedient for an end, as we stated above,
when treating of counsel (Q. 14, A. 2). But the same things are not expedient for all. Therefore
certain definite counsels should not be proposed to all.

Obj. 2: Further, counsels regard a greater good. But there are no definite degrees to the greater
good. Therefore definite counsels should not be given.

Obj. 3: Further, counsels pertain to the life of perfection. But obedience pertains to the
life of perfection. Therefore it was unfitting that no counsel of obedience should be contained
in the Gospel.

Obj. 4: Further, many matters pertaining to the life of perfection are found among the commandments,
as, for instance, "Love your enemies" (Matt. 5:44), and those precepts which Our Lord gave
His apostles (Matt. 10). Therefore the counsels are unfittingly given in the New Law: both
because they are not all mentioned; and because they are not distinguished from the commandments.

On the contrary, The counsels of a wise friend are of great use, according to Prov. (27:9):
"Ointment and perfumes rejoice the heart: and the good counsels of a friend rejoice the soul."
But Christ is our wisest and greatest friend. Therefore His counsels are supremely useful and
becoming.

I answer that, The difference between a counsel and a commandment is that a commandment implies
obligation, whereas a counsel is left to the option of the one to whom it is given. Consequently
in the New Law, which is the law of liberty, counsels are added to the commandments, and not
in the Old Law, which is the law of bondage. We must therefore understand the commandments
of the New Law to have been given about matters that are necessary to gain the end of eternal
bliss, to which end the New Law brings us forthwith: but that the counsels are about matters
that render the gaining of this end more assured and expeditious.

Now man is placed between the things of this world, and spiritual goods wherein eternal happiness
consists: so that the more he cleaves to the one, the more he withdraws from the other, and
conversely. Wherefore he that cleaves wholly to the things of this world, so as to make them
his end, and to look upon them as the reason and rule of all he does, falls away altogether
from spiritual goods. Hence this disorder is removed by the commandments. Nevertheless, for
man to gain the end aforesaid, he does not need to renounce the things of the world altogether:
since he can, while using the things of this world, attain to eternal happiness, provided he
does not place his end in them: but he will attain more speedily thereto by giving up the goods
of this world entirely: wherefore the evangelical counsels are given for this purpose.

Now the goods of this world which come into use in human life, consist in three things: viz.
in external wealth pertaining to the "concupiscence of the eyes"; carnal pleasures pertaining
to the "concupiscence of the flesh"; and honors, which pertain to the "pride of life," according
to 1 John 2:16: and it is in renouncing these altogether, as far as possible, that the evangelical
counsels consist. Moreover, every form of the religious life that professes the state of perfection
is based on these three: since riches are renounced by poverty; carnal pleasures by perpetual
chastity; and the pride of life by the bondage of obedience.

Now if a man observe these absolutely, this is in accordance with the counsels as they stand.
But if a man observe any one of them in a particular case, this is taking that counsel in a
restricted sense, namely, as applying to that particular case. For instance, when anyone gives
an alms to a poor man, not being bound so to do, he follows the counsels in that particular
case. In like manner, when a man for some fixed time refrains from carnal pleasures that he
may give himself to prayer, he follows the counsel for that particular time. And again, when
a man follows not his will as to some deed which he might do lawfully, he follows the counsel
in that particular case: for instance, if he do good to his enemies when he is not bound to,
or if he forgive an injury of which he might justly seek to be avenged. In this way, too, all
particular counsels may be reduced to these three general and perfect counsels.

Reply Obj. 1: The aforesaid counsels, considered in themselves, are expedient to all; but owing
to some people being ill-disposed, it happens that some of them are inexpedient, because their
disposition is not inclined to such things. Hence Our Lord, in proposing the evangelical counsels,
always makes mention of man's fitness for observing the counsels. For in giving the counsel
of perpetual poverty (Matt. 19:21), He begins with the words: "If thou wilt be perfect," and
then He adds: "Go, sell all [Vulg.: 'what'] thou hast." And again, the Apostle (1 Cor. 7:35),
after giving the counsel of virginity, says: "And this I speak for your profit; not to cast
a snare upon you."

Reply Obj. 2: The greater goods are not definitely fixed in the individual; but those which
are simply and absolutely the greater good in general are fixed: and to these all the above
particular goods may be reduced, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Even the counsel of obedience is understood to have been given by Our Lord in
the words: "And [let him] follow Me." For we follow Him not only by imitating His works, but
also by obeying His commandments, according to John 10:27: "My sheep hear My voice . . . and
they follow Me."

Reply Obj. 4: Those things which Our Lord prescribed about the true love of our enemies, and
other similar sayings (Matt. 5; Luke 6), may be referred to the preparation of the mind, and
then they are necessary for salvation; for instance, that man be prepared to do good to his
enemies, and other similar actions, when there is need. Hence these things are placed among
the precepts. But that anyone should actually and promptly behave thus towards an enemy when
there is no special need, is to be referred to the particular counsels, as stated above. As
to those matters which are set down in Matt. 10 and Luke 9 and 10, they were either disciplinary
commands for that particular time, or concessions, as stated above (A. 2, ad 3). Hence they
are not set down among the counsels.

TREATISE ON GRACE (QQ. 109-114)

QUESTION 109

OF THE NECESSITY OF GRACE (In Ten Articles)

We must now consider the exterior principle of human acts, i.e. God, in so far as, through
grace, we are helped by Him to do right: and, first, we must consider the grace of God; secondly,
its cause; thirdly, its effects.

The first point of consideration will be threefold: for we shall consider (1) The necessity
of grace; (2) grace itself, as to its essence; (3) its division.

Under the first head there are ten points of inquiry:

(1) Whether without grace man can know anything?

(2) Whether without God's grace man can do or wish any good?

(3) Whether without grace man can love God above all things?

(4) Whether without grace man can keep the commandments of the Law?

(5) Whether without grace he can merit eternal life?

(6) Whether without grace man can prepare himself for grace?

(7) Whether without grace he can rise from sin?

(8) Whether without grace man can avoid sin?

(9) Whether man having received grace can do good and avoid sin without any further Divine help?

(10) Whether he can of himself persevere in good?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 1]

Whether Without Grace Man Can Know Any Truth?

Objection 1: It would seem that without grace man can know no truth. For, on 1 Cor. 12:3: "No
man can say, the Lord Jesus, but by the Holy Ghost," a gloss says: "Every truth, by whomsoever
spoken is from the Holy Ghost." Now the Holy Ghost dwells in us by grace. Therefore we cannot
know truth without grace.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (Solil. i, 6) that "the most certain sciences are like things
lit up by the sun so as to be seen. Now God Himself is He Who sheds the light. And reason is
in the mind as sight is in the eye. And the eyes of the mind are the senses of the soul." Now
the bodily senses, however pure, cannot see any visible object, without the sun's light. Therefore
the human mind, however perfect, cannot, by reasoning, know any truth without Divine light:
and this pertains to the aid of grace.

Obj. 3: Further, the human mind can only understand truth by thinking, as is clear from Augustine
(De Trin. xiv, 7). But the Apostle says (2 Cor. 3:5): "Not that we are sufficient to think
anything of ourselves, as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God." Therefore man cannot,
of himself, know truth without the help of grace.

On the contrary, Augustine says (Retract. i, 4): "I do not approve having said in the prayer,
O God, Who dost wish the sinless alone to know the truth; for it may be answered that many
who are not sinless know many truths." Now man is cleansed from sin by grace, according to
Ps. Therefore without grace man of himself can know truth.

I answer that, To know truth is a use or act of intellectual light, since, according to the
Apostle (Eph. 5:13): "All that is made manifest is light." Now every use implies movement,
taking movement broadly, so as to call thinking and willing movements, as is clear from the
Philosopher (De Anima iii, 4). Now in corporeal things we see that for movement there is required
not merely the form which is the principle of the movement or action, but there is also required
the motion of the first mover. Now the first mover in the order of corporeal things is the
heavenly body. Hence no matter how perfectly fire has heat, it would not bring about alteration,
except by the motion of the heavenly body. But it is clear that as all corporeal movements
are reduced to the motion of the heavenly body as to the first corporeal mover, so all movements,
both corporeal and spiritual, are reduced to the simple First Mover, Who is God. And hence
no matter how perfect a corporeal or spiritual nature is supposed to be, it cannot proceed
to its act unless it be moved by God; but this motion is according to the plan of His providence,
and not by necessity of nature, as the motion of the heavenly body. Now not only is every motion
from God as from the First Mover, but all formal perfection is from Him as from the First Act.
And thus the act of the intellect or of any created being whatsoever depends upon God in two
ways: first, inasmuch as it is from Him that it has the form whereby it acts; secondly, inasmuch
as it is moved by Him to act.

Now every form bestowed on created things by God has power for a determined act, which it can
bring about in proportion to its own proper endowment; and beyond which it is powerless, except
by a superadded form, as water can only heat when heated by the fire. And thus the human understanding
has a form, viz. intelligible light, which of itself is sufficient for knowing certain intelligible
things, viz. those we can come to know through the senses. Higher intelligible things the human
intellect cannot know, unless it be perfected by a stronger light, viz. the light of faith
or prophecy which is called the "light of grace," inasmuch as it is added to nature.

Hence we must say that for the knowledge of any truth whatsoever man needs Divine help, that
the intellect may be moved by God to its act. But he does not need a new light added to his
natural light, in order to know the truth in all things, but only in some that surpass his
natural knowledge. And yet at times God miraculously instructs some by His grace in things
that can be known by natural reason, even as He sometimes brings about miraculously what nature
can do.

Reply Obj. 1: Every truth by whomsoever spoken is from the Holy Ghost as bestowing the natural
light, and moving us to understand and speak the truth, but not as dwelling in us by sanctifying
grace, or as bestowing any habitual gift superadded to nature. For this only takes place with
regard to certain truths that are known and spoken, and especially in regard to such as pertain
to faith, of which the Apostle speaks.

Reply Obj. 2: The material sun sheds its light outside us; but the intelligible Sun, Who is
God, shines within us. Hence the natural light bestowed upon the soul is God's enlightenment,
whereby we are enlightened to see what pertains to natural knowledge; and for this there is
required no further knowledge, but only for such things as surpass natural knowledge.

Reply Obj. 3: We always need God's help for every thought, inasmuch as He moves the understanding
to act; for actually to understand anything is to think, as is clear from Augustine (De Trin.
xiv, 7).

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 2]

Whether Man Can Wish or Do Any Good Without Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that man can wish and do good without grace. For that is in man's
power, whereof he is master. Now man is master of his acts, and especially of his willing,
as stated above (Q. 1, A. 1; Q. 13, A. 6). Hence man, of himself, can wish and do good without
the help of grace.

Obj. 2: Further, man has more power over what is according to his nature than over what is
beyond his nature. Now sin is against his nature, as Damascene says (De Fide Orth. ii, 30);
whereas deeds of virtue are according to his nature, as stated above (Q. 71, A. 1). Therefore
since man can sin of himself he can wish and do good.

Obj. 3: Further, the understanding's good is truth, as the Philosopher says (Ethic. vi, 2).
Now the intellect can of itself know truth, even as every other thing can work its own operation
of itself. Therefore, much more can man, of himself, do and wish good.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 9:16): "It is not of him that willeth," namely, to
will, "nor of him that runneth," namely to run, "but of God that showeth mercy." And Augustine
says (De Corrept. et Gratia ii) that "without grace men do nothing good when they either think
or wish or love or act."

I answer that, Man's nature may be looked at in two ways: first, in its integrity, as it was
in our first parent before sin; secondly, as it is corrupted in us after the sin of our first
parent. Now in both states human nature needs the help of God as First Mover, to do or wish
any good whatsoever, as stated above (A. 1). But in the state of integrity, as regards the
sufficiency of the operative power, man by his natural endowments could wish and do the good
proportionate to his nature, such as the good of acquired virtue; but not surpassing good,
as the good of infused virtue. But in the state of corrupt nature, man falls short of what
he could do by his nature, so that he is unable to fulfil it by his own natural powers. Yet
because human nature is not altogether corrupted by sin, so as to be shorn of every natural
good, even in the state of corrupted nature it can, by virtue of its natural endowments, work
some particular good, as to build dwellings, plant vineyards, and the like; yet it cannot do
all the good natural to it, so as to fall short in nothing; just as a sick man can of himself
make some movements, yet he cannot be perfectly moved with the movements of one in health,
unless by the help of medicine he be cured.

And thus in the state of perfect nature man needs a gratuitous strength superadded to natural
strength for one reason, viz. in order to do and wish supernatural good; but for two reasons,
in the state of corrupt nature, viz. in order to be healed, and furthermore in order to carry
out works of supernatural virtue, which are meritorious. Beyond this, in both states man needs
the Divine help, that he may be moved to act well.

Reply Obj. 1: Man is master of his acts and of his willing or not willing, because of his deliberate
reason, which can be bent to one side or another. And although he is master of his deliberating
or not deliberating, yet this can only be by a previous deliberation; and since it cannot go
on to infinity, we must come at length to this, that man's free-will is moved by an extrinsic
principle, which is above the human mind, to wit by God, as the Philosopher proves in the chapter
"On Good Fortune" (Ethic. Eudem. vii). Hence the mind of man still unweakened is not so much
master of its act that it does not need to be moved by God; and much more the free-will of
man weakened by sin, whereby it is hindered from good by the corruption of the nature.

Reply Obj. 2: To sin is nothing else than to fail in the good which belongs to any being according
to its nature. Now as every created thing has its being from another, and, considered in itself,
is nothing, so does it need to be preserved by another in the good which pertains to its nature.
For it can of itself fail in good, even as of itself it can fall into non-existence, unless
it is upheld by God.

Reply Obj. 3: Man cannot even know truth without Divine help, as stated above (A. 1). And yet
human nature is more corrupt by sin in regard to the desire for good, than in regard to the
knowledge of truth.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 3]

Whether by His Own Natural Powers and Without Grace Man Can Love God Above All Things?

Objection 1: It would seem that without grace man cannot love God above all things by his own
natural powers. For to love God above all things is the proper and principal act of charity.
Therefore man by his natural powers alone cannot love God above all things.

Obj. 2: Further, no nature can rise above itself. But to love God above all things is to tend
above oneself. Therefore without the help of grace no created nature can love God above itself.

Obj. 3: Further, to God, Who is the Highest Good, is due the best love, which is that He be
loved above all things. Now without grace man is not capable of giving God the best love, which
is His due; otherwise it would be useless to add grace. Hence man, without grace and with his
natural powers alone, cannot love God above all things.

On the contrary, As some maintain, man was first made with only natural endowments; and in
this state it is manifest that he loved God to some extent. But he did not love God equally
with himself, or less than himself, otherwise he would have sinned. Therefore he loved God
above himself. Therefore man, by his natural powers alone, can love God more than himself and
above all things.

I answer that, As was said above (I, Q. 60, A. 5), where the various opinions concerning the
natural love of the angels were set forth, man in a state of perfect nature, could by his natural
power, do the good natural to him without the addition of any gratuitous gift, though not without
the help of God moving him. Now to love God above all things is natural to man and to every
nature, not only rational but irrational, and even to inanimate nature according to the manner
of love which can belong to each creature. And the reason of this is that it is natural to
all to seek and love things according as they are naturally fit (to be sought and loved) since
"all things act according as they are naturally fit" as stated in Phys. ii, 8. Now it is manifest
that the good of the part is for the good of the whole; hence everything, by its natural appetite
and love, loves its own proper good on account of the common good of the whole universe, which
is God. Hence Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "God leads everything to love of Himself."
Hence in the state of perfect nature man referred the love of himself and of all other things
to the love of God as to its end; and thus he loved God more than himself and above all things.
But in the state of corrupt nature man falls short of this in the appetite of his rational
will, which, unless it is cured by God's grace, follows its private good, on account of the
corruption of nature. And hence we must say that in the state of perfect nature man did not
need the gift of grace added to his natural endowments, in order to love God above all things
naturally, although he needed God's help to move him to it; but in the state of corrupt nature
man needs, even for this, the help of grace to heal his nature.

Reply Obj. 1: Charity loves God above all things in a higher way than nature does. For nature
loves God above all things inasmuch as He is the beginning and the end of natural good; whereas
charity loves Him, as He is the object of beatitude, and inasmuch as man has a spiritual fellowship
with God. Moreover charity adds to natural love of God a certain quickness and joy, in the
same way that every habit of virtue adds to the good act which is done merely by the natural
reason of a man who has not the habit of virtue.

Reply Obj. 2: When it is said that nature cannot rise above itself, we must not understand
this as if it could not be drawn to any object above itself, for it is clear that our intellect
by its natural knowledge can know things above itself, as is shown in our natural knowledge
of God. But we are to understand that nature cannot rise to an act exceeding the proportion
of its strength. Now to love God above all things is not such an act; for it is natural to
every creature, as was said above.

Reply Obj. 3: Love is said to be best, both with respect to degree of love, and with regard
to the motive of loving, and the mode of love. And thus the highest degree of love is that
whereby charity loves God as the giver of beatitude, as was said above.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 4]

Whether Man Without Grace and by His Own Natural Powers Can Fulfil the Commandments of the Law?

Objection 1: It would seem that man without grace, and by his own natural powers, can fulfil
the commandments of the Law. Now what a man does naturally he can do of himself without grace.
Hence a man can fulfil the commandments of the Law without grace.

Obj. 2: Further, Jerome says (Expos. Cathol. Fide [*Symboli Explanatio ad Damasum, among the
supposititious works of St. Jerome: now ascribed to Pelagius]) that "they are anathema who
say God has laid impossibilities upon man." Now what a man cannot fulfil by himself is impossible
to him. Therefore a man can fulfil all the commandments of himself.

Obj. (Matt. 27:37). Now man with his natural endowments can fulfil this command by loving God
above all things, as stated above (A. 3). Therefore man can fulfil all the commandments of
the Law without grace.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Haeres. lxxxviii) that it is part of the Pelagian heresy
that "they believe that without grace man can fulfil all the Divine commandments."

I answer that, There are two ways of fulfilling the commandments of the Law. The first regards
the substance of the works, as when a man does works of justice, fortitude, and of other virtues.
And in this way man in the state of perfect nature could fulfil all the commandments of the
Law; otherwise he would have been unable to sin in that state, since to sin is nothing else
than to transgress the Divine commandments. But in the state of corrupted nature man cannot
fulfil all the Divine commandments without healing grace. Secondly, the commandments of the
law can be fulfilled, not merely as regards the substance of the act, but also as regards the
mode of acting, i.e. their being done out of charity. And in this way, neither in the state
of perfect nature, nor in the state of corrupt nature can man fulfil the commandments of the
law without grace. Hence, Augustine (De Corrept. et Grat. ii) having stated that "without grace
men can do no good whatever," adds: "Not only do they know by its light what to do, but by
its help they do lovingly what they know." Beyond this, in both states they need the help of
God's motion in order to fulfil the commandments, as stated above (AA. 2, 3).

Reply Obj. 1: As Augustine says (De Spir. et Lit. xxvii), "do not be disturbed at his saying
that they do by nature those things that are of the Law; for the Spirit of grace works this,
in order to restore in us the image of God, after which we were naturally made."

Reply Obj. 2: What we can do with the Divine assistance is not altogether impossible to us;
according to the Philosopher (Ethic. iii, 3): "What we can do through our friends, we can do,
in some sense, by ourselves."

Reply Obj. 3: Man cannot, with his purely natural endowments, fulfil the precept of the love
of God, as stated above (A. 3).

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 5]

Whether Man Can Merit Everlasting Life Without Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that man can merit everlasting life without grace. But what rests
with our will, we can do of ourselves. Hence it seems that man can merit everlasting life of
himself.

Obj. 2: Further, eternal life is the wage of reward bestowed by God on men, according to Matt.
5:12: "Your reward is very great in heaven." But wage or reward is meted by God to everyone
according to his works, according to Ps. 61:12: "Thou wilt render to every man according to
his works." Hence, since man is master of his works, it seems that it is within his power to
reach everlasting life.

Obj. 3: Further, everlasting life is the last end of human life. Now every natural thing by
its natural endowments can attain its end. Much more, therefore, may man attain to life everlasting
by his natural endowments, without grace.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Rom. 6:23): "The grace of God is life everlasting." And
as a gloss says, this is said "that we may understand that God, of His own mercy, leads us
to everlasting life."

I answer that, Acts conducing to an end must be proportioned to the end. But no act exceeds
the proportion of its active principle; and hence we see in natural things, that nothing can
by its operation bring about an effect which exceeds its active force, but only such as is
proportionate to its power. Now everlasting life is an end exceeding the proportion of human
nature, as is clear from what we have said above (Q. 5, A. 5). Hence man, by his natural endowments,
cannot produce meritorious works proportionate to everlasting life; and for this a higher force
is needed, viz. the force of grace. And thus without grace man cannot merit everlasting life;
yet he can perform works conducing to a good which is natural to man, as "to toil in the fields,
to drink, to eat, or to have friends," and the like, as Augustine says in his third Reply to
the Pelagians [*Hypognosticon iii, among the spurious works of St. Augustine].

Reply Obj. 1: Man, by his will, does works meritorious of everlasting life; but as Augustine
says, in the same book, for this it is necessary that the will of man should be prepared with
grace by God.

Reply Obj. 2: As the gloss upon Rom. 6:23, "The grace of God is life everlasting," says, "It
is certain that everlasting life is meted to good works; but the works to which it is meted,
belong to God's grace." And it has been said (A. 4), that to fulfil the commandments of the
Law, in their due way, whereby their fulfilment may be meritorious, requires grace.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection has to do with the natural end of man. Now human nature, since
it is nobler, can be raised by the help of grace to a higher end, which lower natures can nowise
reach; even as a man who can recover his health by the help of medicines is better disposed
to health than one who can nowise recover it, as the Philosopher observes (De Coelo ii, 12).

SIXTH ARTICLE [I, Q. 109, Art. 6]

Whether a Man, by Himself and Without the External Aid of Grace, Can Prepare Himself for Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that man, by himself and without the external help of grace, can
prepare himself for grace. For nothing impossible is laid upon man, as stated above (A. 4,
ad 1). But it is written (Zech. 1:3): "Turn ye to Me . . . and I will turn to you." Now to
prepare for grace is nothing more than to turn to God. Therefore it seems that man of himself,
and without the external help of grace, can prepare himself for grace.

Obj. 2: Further, man prepares himself for grace by doing what is in him to do, since if man
does what is in him to do, God will not deny him grace, for it is written (Matt. 7:11) that
God gives His good Spirit "to them that ask Him." But what is in our power is in us to do.
Therefore it seems to be in our power to prepare ourselves for grace.

Obj. 3: Further, if a man needs grace in order to prepare for grace, with equal reason will
he need grace to prepare himself for the first grace; and thus to infinity, which is impossible.
Hence it seems that we must not go beyond what was said first, viz. that man, of himself and
without grace, can prepare himself for grace.

Obj. 4: Further, it is written (Prov. 16:1) that "it is the part of man to prepare the soul."
Now an action is said to be part of a man, when he can do it by himself. Hence it seems that
man by himself can prepare himself for grace.

On the contrary, It is written (John 6:44): "No man can come to Me except the Father, Who hath
sent Me, draw him." But if man could prepare himself, he would not need to be drawn by another.
Hence man cannot prepare himself without the help of grace.

I answer that, The preparation of the human will for good is twofold: the first, whereby it
is prepared to operate rightly and to enjoy God; and this preparation of the will cannot take
place without the habitual gift of grace, which is the principle of meritorious works, as stated
above (A. 5). There is a second way in which the human will may be taken to be prepared for
the gift of habitual grace itself. Now in order that man prepare himself to receive this gift,
it is not necessary to presuppose any further habitual gift in the soul, otherwise we should
go on to infinity. But we must presuppose a gratuitous gift of God, Who moves the soul inwardly
or inspires the good wish. For in these two ways do we need the Divine assistance, as stated
above (AA. 2, 3). Now that we need the help of God to move us, is manifest. For since every
agent acts for an end, every cause must direct is effect to its end, and hence since the order
of ends is according to the order of agents or movers, man must be directed to the last end
by the motion of the first mover, and to the proximate end by the motion of any of the subordinate
movers; as the spirit of the soldier is bent towards seeking the victory by the motion of the
leader of the army--and towards following the standard of a regiment by the motion of the standard-bearer.
And thus since God is the First Mover, simply, it is by His motion that everything seeks to
be likened to God in its own way. Hence Dionysius says (Div. Nom. iv) that "God turns all to
Himself." But He directs righteous men to Himself as to a special end, which they seek, and
to which they wish to cling, according to Ps. 72:28, "it is good for Me to adhere to my God."
And that they are "turned" to God can only spring from God's having "turned" them. Now to prepare
oneself for grace is, as it were, to be turned to God; just as, whoever has his eyes turned
away from the light of the sun, prepares himself to receive the sun's light, by turning his
eyes towards the sun. Hence it is clear that man cannot prepare himself to receive the light
of grace except by the gratuitous help of God moving him inwardly.

Reply Obj. 1: Man's turning to God is by free-will; and thus man is bidden to turn himself
to God. But free-will can only be turned to God, when God turns it, according to Jer. 31:18:
"Convert me and I shall be converted, for Thou art the Lord, my God"; and Lam. 5:21: "Convert
us, O Lord, to Thee, and we shall be converted."

Reply Obj. 2: Man can do nothing unless moved by God, according to John 15:5: "Without Me,
you can do nothing." Hence when a man is said to do what is in him to do, this is said to be
in his power according as he is moved by God.

Reply Obj. 3: This objection regards habitual grace, for which some preparation is required,
since every form requires a disposition in that which is to be its subject. But in order that
man should be moved by God, no further motion is presupposed since God is the First Mover.
Hence we need not go to infinity.

Reply Obj. 4: It is the part of man to prepare his soul, since he does this by his free-will.
And yet he does not do this without the help of God moving him, and drawing him to Himself,
as was said above.

SEVENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 7]

Whether Man Can Rise from Sin Without the Help of Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that man can rise from sin without the help of grace. For what is
presupposed to grace, takes place without grace. But to rise from sin is presupposed to the
enlightenment of grace; since it is written (Eph. 5:14): "Arise from the dead and Christ shall
enlighten thee." Therefore man can rise from sin without grace.

Obj. 2: Further, sin is opposed to virtue as illness to health, as stated above (Q. 71, A.
1, ad 3). Now, man, by force of his nature, can rise from illness to health, without the external
help of medicine, since there still remains in him the principle of life, from which the natural
operation proceeds. Hence it seems that, with equal reason, man may be restored by himself,
and return from the state of sin to the state of justice without the help of external grace.

Obj. 3: Further, every natural thing can return by itself to the act befitting its nature,
as hot water returns by itself to its natural coldness, and a stone cast upwards returns by
itself to its natural movement. Now a sin is an act against nature, as is clear from Damascene
(De Fide Orth. ii, 30). Hence it seems that man by himself can return from sin to the state
of justice.

On the contrary, The Apostle says (Gal. 2:21; Cf. Gal. 3:21): "For if there had been a law
given which could give life--then Christ died in vain," i.e. to no purpose. Hence with equal
reason, if man has a nature, whereby he can he justified, "Christ died in vain," i.e. to no
purpose. But this cannot fittingly be said. Therefore by himself he cannot be justified, i.e.
he cannot return from a state of sin to a state of justice.

I answer that, Man by himself can no wise rise from sin without the help of grace. For since
sin is transient as to the act and abiding in its guilt, as stated above (Q. 87, A. 6), to
rise from sin is not the same as to cease the act of sin; but to rise from sin means that man
has restored to him what he lost by sinning. Now man incurs a triple loss by sinning, as was
clearly shown above (Q. 85, A. 1; Q. 86, A. 1; Q. 87, A. 1), viz. stain, corruption of natural
good, and debt of punishment. He incurs a stain, inasmuch as he forfeits the lustre of grace
through the deformity of sin. Natural good is corrupted, inasmuch as man's nature is disordered
by man's will not being subject to God's; and this order being overthrown, the consequence
is that the whole nature of sinful man remains disordered. Lastly, there is the debt of punishment,
inasmuch as by sinning man deserves everlasting damnation.

Now it is manifest that none of these three can be restored except by God. For since the lustre
of grace springs from the shedding of Divine light, this lustre cannot be brought back, except
God sheds His light anew: hence a habitual gift is necessary, and this is the light of grace.
Likewise, the order of nature can only be restored, i.e. man's will can only be subject to
God when God draws man's will to Himself, as stated above (A. 6). So, too, the guilt of eternal
punishment can be remitted by God alone, against Whom the offense was committed and Who is
man's Judge. And thus in order that man rise from sin there is required the help of grace,
both as regards a habitual gift, and as regards the internal motion of God.

Reply Obj. 1: To man is bidden that which pertains to the act of free-will, as this act is
required in order that man should rise from sin. Hence when it is said, "Arise, and Christ
shall enlighten thee," we are not to think that the complete rising from sin precedes the enlightenment
of grace; but that when man by his free-will, moved by God, strives to rise from sin, he receives
the light of justifying grace.

Reply Obj. 2: The natural reason is not the sufficient principle of the health that is in man
by justifying grace. This principle is grace which is taken away by sin. Hence man cannot be
restored by himself; but he requires the light of grace to be poured upon him anew, as if the
soul were infused into a dead body for its resurrection.

Reply Obj. 3: When nature is perfect, it can be restored by itself to its befitting and proportionate
condition; but without exterior help it cannot be restored to what surpasses its measure. And
thus human nature undone by reason of the act of sin, remains no longer perfect, but corrupted,
as stated above (Q. 85); nor can it be restored, by itself, to its connatural good, much less
to the supernatural good of justice.

EIGHTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 8]

Whether Man Without Grace Can Avoid Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that without grace man can avoid sin. Because "no one sins in what
he cannot avoid," as Augustine says (De Duab. Anim. x, xi; De Libero Arbit. iii, 18). Hence
if a man in mortal sin cannot avoid sin, it would seem that in sinning he does not sin, which
is impossible.

Obj. 2: Further, men are corrected that they may not sin. If therefore a man in mortal sin
cannot avoid sin, correction would seem to be given to no purpose; which is absurd.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (Ecclus. 15:18): "Before man is life and death, good and evil;
that which he shall choose shall be given him." But by sinning no one ceases to be a man. Hence
it is still in his power to choose good or evil; and thus man can avoid sin without grace.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Perfect Just. xxi): "Whoever denies that we ought to say
the prayer 'Lead us not into temptation' (and they deny it who maintain that the help of God's
grace is not necessary to man for salvation, but that the gift of the law is enough for the
human will) ought without doubt to be removed beyond all hearing, and to be anathematized by
the tongues of all."

I answer that, We may speak of man in two ways: first, in the state of perfect nature; secondly,
in the state of corrupted nature. Now in the state of perfect nature, man, without habitual
grace, could avoid sinning either mortally or venially; since to sin is nothing else than to
stray from what is according to our nature--and in the state of perfect nature man could avoid
this. Nevertheless he could not have done it without God's help to uphold him in good, since
if this had been withdrawn, even his nature would have fallen back into nothingness.

But in the state of corrupt nature man needs grace to heal his nature in order that he may
entirely abstain from sin. And in the present life this healing is wrought in the mind--the
carnal appetite being not yet restored. Hence the Apostle (Rom. 7:25) says in the person of
one who is restored: "I myself, with the mind, serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the
law of sin." And in this state man can abstain from all mortal sin, which takes its stand in
his reason, as stated above (Q. 74, A. 5); but man cannot abstain from all venial sin on account
of the corruption of his lower appetite of sensuality. For man can, indeed, repress each of
its movements (and hence they are sinful and voluntary), but not all, because whilst he is
resisting one, another may arise, and also because the reason is not always alert to avoid
these movements, as was said above (Q. 74, A. 3, ad 2).

So, too, before man's reason, wherein is mortal sin, is restored by justifying grace, he can
avoid each mortal sin, and for a time, since it is not necessary that he should be always actually
sinning. But it cannot be that he remains for a long time without mortal sin. Hence Gregory
says (Super Ezech. Hom. xi) that "a sin not at once taken away by repentance, by its weight
drags us down to other sins": and this because, as the lower appetite ought to be subject to
the reason, so should the reason be subject to God, and should place in Him the end of its
will. Now it is by the end that all human acts ought to be regulated, even as it is by the
judgment of the reason that the movements of the lower appetite should be regulated. And thus,
even as inordinate movements of the sensitive appetite cannot help occurring since the lower
appetite is not subject to reason, so likewise, since man's reason is not entirely subject
to God, the consequence is that many disorders occur in the reason. For when man's heart is
not so fixed on God as to be unwilling to be parted from Him for the sake of finding any good
or avoiding any evil, many things happen for the achieving or avoiding of which a man strays
from God and breaks His commandments, and thus sins mortally: especially since, when surprised,
a man acts according to his preconceived end and his pre-existing habits, as the Philosopher
says (Ethic. iii); although with premeditation of his reason a man may do something outside
the order of his preconceived end and the inclination of his habit. But because a man cannot
always have this premeditation, it cannot help occurring that he acts in accordance with his
will turned aside from God, unless, by grace, he is quickly brought back to the due order.

Reply Obj. 1: Man can avoid each but not every act of sin, except by grace, as stated above.
Nevertheless, since it is by his own shortcoming that he does not prepare himself to have grace,
the fact that he cannot avoid sin without grace does not excuse him from sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Correction is useful "in order that out of the sorrow of correction may spring
the wish to be regenerate; if indeed he who is corrected is a son of promise, in such sort
that whilst the noise of correction is outwardly resounding and punishing, God by hidden inspirations
is inwardly causing to will," as Augustine says (De Corr. et Gratia vi). Correction is therefore
necessary, from the fact that man's will is required in order to abstain from sin; yet it is
not sufficient without God's help.

Reply Obj. 3: As Augustine says (Hypognosticon iii [*Among the spurious works of St. Augustine]),
this saying is to be understood of man in the state of perfect nature, when as yet he was not
a slave of sin. Hence he was able to sin and not to sin. Now, too, whatever a man wills, is
given to him; but his willing good, he has by God's assistance.

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 9]

Whether One Who Has Already Obtained Grace, Can, of Himself and Without Further Help of Grace,
Do Good and Avoid Sin?

Objection 1: It would seem that whoever has already obtained grace, can by himself and without
further help of grace, do good and avoid sin. For a thing is useless or imperfect, if it does
not fulfil what it was given for. Now grace is given to us that we may do good and keep from
sin. Hence if with grace man cannot do this, it seems that grace is either useless or imperfect.

Obj. 2: Further, by grace the Holy Spirit dwells in us, according to 1 Cor. 3:16: "Know you
not that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" Now since
the Spirit of God is omnipotent, He is sufficient to ensure our doing good and to keep us from
sin. Hence a man who has obtained grace can do the above two things without any further assistance
of grace.

Obj. 3: Further, if a man who has obtained grace needs further aid of grace in order to live
righteously and to keep free from sin, with equal reason, will he need yet another grace, even
though he has obtained this first help of grace. Therefore we must go on to infinity; which
is impossible. Hence whoever is in grace needs no further help of grace in order to do righteously
and to keep free from sin.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Natura et Gratia xxvi) that "as the eye of the body though
most healthy cannot see unless it is helped by the brightness of light, so, neither can a man,
even if he is most righteous, live righteously unless he be helped by the eternal light of
justice." But justification is by grace, according to Rom. 3:24: "Being justified freely by
His grace." Hence even a man who already possesses grace needs a further assistance of grace
in order to live righteously.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 5), in order to live righteously a man needs a twofold help
of God--first, a habitual gift whereby corrupted human nature is healed, and after being healed
is lifted up so as to work deeds meritorious of everlasting life, which exceed the capability
of nature. Secondly, man needs the help of grace in order to be moved by God to act.

Now with regard to the first kind of help, man does not need a further help of grace, e.g.
a further infused habit. Yet he needs the help of grace in another way, i.e. in order to be
moved by God to act righteously, and this for two reasons: first, for the general reason that
no created thing can put forth any act, unless by virtue of the Divine motion. Secondly, for
this special reason--the condition of the state of human nature. For although healed by grace
as to the mind, yet it remains corrupted and poisoned in the flesh, whereby it serves "the
law of sin," Rom. 7:25. In the intellect, too, there remains the darkness of ignorance, whereby,
as is written (Rom. Hence we must be guided and guarded by God, Who knows and can do all things.
For which reason also it is becoming in those who have been born again as sons of God, to say:
"Lead us not into temptation," and "Thy Will be done on earth as it is in heaven," and whatever
else is contained in the Lord's Prayer pertaining to this.

Reply Obj. 1: The gift of habitual grace is not therefore given to us that we may no longer
need the Divine help; for every creature needs to be preserved in the good received from Him.
Hence if after having received grace man still needs the Divine help, it cannot be concluded
that grace is given to no purpose, or that it is imperfect, since man will need the Divine
help even in the state of glory, when grace shall be fully perfected. But here grace is to
some extent imperfect, inasmuch as it does not completely heal man, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: The operation of the Holy Ghost, which moves and protects, is not circumscribed
by the effect of habitual grace which it causes in us; but beyond this effect He, together
with the Father and the Son, moves and protects us.

Reply Obj. 3: This argument merely proves that man needs no further habitual grace.

TENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 109, Art. 10]

Whether Man Possessed of Grace Needs the Help of Grace in Order to Persevere?

Objection 1: It would seem that man possessed of grace needs no help to persevere. For perseverance
is something less than virtue, even as continence is, as is clear from the Philosopher (Ethic.
vii, 7, 9). Now since man is justified by grace, he needs no further help of grace in order
to have the virtues. Much less, therefore, does he need the help of grace to have perseverance.

Obj. 2: Further, all the virtues are infused at once. But perseverance is put down as a virtue.
Hence it seems that, together with grace, perseverance is given to the other infused virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, as the Apostle says (Rom. 5:20) more was restored to man by Christ's gift,
than he had lost by Adam's sin. But Adam received what enabled him to persevere; and thus man
does not need grace in order to persevere.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Persev. ii): "Why is perseverance besought of God, if it
is not bestowed by God? For is it not a mocking request to seek what we know He does not give,
and what is in our power without His giving it?" Now perseverance is besought by even those
who are hallowed by grace; and this is seen, when we say "Hallowed be Thy name," which Augustine
confirms by the words of Cyprian (De Correp. et Grat. xii). Hence man, even when possessed
of grace, needs perseverance to be given to him by God.

I answer that, Perseverance is taken in three ways. First, to signify a habit of the mind whereby
a man stands steadfastly, lest he be moved by the assault of sadness from what is virtuous.
And thus perseverance is to sadness as continence is to concupiscence and pleasure, as the
Philosopher says (Ethic. vii, 7). Secondly, perseverance may be called a habit, whereby a man
has the purpose of persevering in good unto the end. And in both these ways perseverance is
infused together with grace, even as continence and the other virtues are. Thirdly, perseverance
is called the abiding in good to the end of life. And in order to have this perseverance man
does not, indeed, need another habitual grace, but he needs the Divine assistance guiding and
guarding him against the attacks of the passions, as appears from the preceding article. And
hence after anyone has been justified by grace, he still needs to beseech God for the aforesaid
gift of perseverance, that he may be kept from evil till the end of his life. For to many grace
is given to whom perseverance in grace is not given.

Reply Obj. 1: This objection regards the first mode of perseverance, as the second objection
regards the second.

Hence the solution of the second objection is clear.

Reply Obj. 3: As Augustine says (De Natura et Gratia xliii) [*Cf. De Correp. et Grat. xii]:
"in the original state man received a gift whereby he could persevere, but to persevere was
not given him. But now, by the grace of Christ, many receive both the gift of grace whereby
they may persevere, and the further gift of persevering," and thus Christ's gift is greater
than Adam's fault. Nevertheless it was easier for man to persevere, with the gift of grace
in the state of innocence in which the flesh was not rebellious against the spirit, than it
is now. For the restoration by Christ's grace, although it is already begun in the mind, is
not yet completed in the flesh, as it will be in heaven, where man will not merely be able
to persevere but will be unable to sin.

QUESTION 110

OF THE GRACE OF GOD AS REGARDS ITS ESSENCE (In Four Articles)

We must now consider the grace of God as regards its essence; and under this head there are
four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether grace implies something in the soul?

(2) Whether grace is a quality?

(3) Whether grace differs from infused virtue?

(4) Of the subject of grace.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 110, Art. 1]

Whether Grace Implies Anything in the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace does not imply anything in the soul. For man is said
to have the grace of God even as the grace of man. Hence it is written (Gen. 39:21) that the
Lord gave to Joseph "grace [Douay: 'favor'] in the sight of the chief keeper of the prison."
Now when we say that a man has the favor of another, nothing is implied in him who has the
favor of the other, but an acceptance is implied in him whose favor he has. Hence when we say
that a man has the grace of God, nothing is implied in his soul; but we merely signify the
Divine acceptance.

Obj. Therefore nothing can come as a medium between God and the soul. Hence grace implies nothing
created in the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, on Rom. 1:7, "Grace to you and peace," the gloss says: "Grace, i.e. the remission
of sins." Now the remission of sin implies nothing in the soul, but only in God, Who does not
impute the sin, according to Ps. 31:2: "Blessed is the man to whom the Lord hath not imputed
sin." Hence neither does grace imply anything in the soul.

On the contrary, Light implies something in what is enlightened. But grace is a light of the
soul; hence Augustine says (De Natura et Gratia xxii): "The light of truth rightly deserts
the prevaricator of the law, and those who have been thus deserted become blind." Therefore
grace implies something in the soul.

I answer that, According to the common manner of speech, grace is usually taken in three ways.
First, for anyone's love, as we are accustomed to say that the soldier is in the good graces
of the king, i.e. the king looks on him with favor. Secondly, it is taken for any gift freely
bestowed, as we are accustomed to say: I do you this act of grace. Thirdly, it is taken for
the recompense of a gift given "gratis," inasmuch as we are said to be "grateful" for benefits.
Of these three the second depends on the first, since one bestows something on another "gratis"
from the love wherewith he receives him into his good "graces." And from the second proceeds
the third, since from benefits bestowed "gratis" arises "gratitude."

Now as regards the last two, it is clear that grace implies something in him who receives grace:
first, the gift given gratis; secondly, the acknowledgment of the gift. But as regards the
first, a difference must be noted between the grace of God and the grace of man; for since
the creature's good springs from the Divine will, some good in the creature flows from God's
love, whereby He wishes the good of the creature. On the other hand, the will of man is moved
by the good pre-existing in things; and hence man's love does not wholly cause the good of
the thing, but pre-supposes it either in part or wholly. Therefore it is clear that every love
of God is followed at some time by a good caused in the creature, but not co-eternal with the
eternal love. And according to this difference of good the love of God to the creature is looked
at differently. For one is common, whereby He loves "all things that are" (Wis. 11:25), and
thereby gives things their natural being. But the second is a special love, whereby He draws
the rational creature above the condition of its nature to a participation of the Divine good;
and according to this love He is said to love anyone simply, since it is by this love that
God simply wishes the eternal good, which is Himself, for the creature.

Accordingly when a man is said to have the grace of God, there is signified something bestowed
on man by God. Nevertheless the grace of God sometimes signifies God's eternal love, as we
say the grace of predestination, inasmuch as God gratuitously and not from merits predestines
or elects some; for it is written (Eph. 1:5): "He hath predestinated us into the adoption of
children . . . unto the praise of the glory of His grace."

Reply Obj. 1: Even when a man is said to be in another's good graces, it is understood that
there is something in him pleasing to the other; even as anyone is said to have God's grace--with
this difference, that what is pleasing to a man in another is presupposed to his love, but
whatever is pleasing to God in a man is caused by the Divine love, as was said above.

Reply Obj. 2: God is the life of the soul after the manner of an efficient cause; but the soul
is the life of the body after the manner of a formal cause. Now there is no medium between
form and matter, since the form, of itself, informs the matter or subject; whereas the agent
informs the subject, not by its substance, but by the form, which it causes in the matter.

Reply Obj. 3: Augustine says (Retract. i, 25): "When I said that grace was for the remission
of sins, and peace for our reconciliation with God, you must not take it to mean that peace
and reconciliation do not pertain to general peace, but that the special name of grace signifies
the remission of sins." Not only grace, therefore, but many other of God's gifts pertain to
grace. And hence the remission of sins does not take place without some effect divinely caused
in us, as will appear later (Q. 113, A. 2).

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 110, Art. 2]

Whether Grace Is a Quality of the Soul?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is not a quality of the soul. For no quality acts on
its subject, since the action of a quality is not without the action of its subject, and thus
the subject would necessarily act upon itself. But grace acts upon the soul, by justifying
it. Therefore grace is not a quality.

Obj. 2: Furthermore, substance is nobler than quality. But grace is nobler than the nature
of the soul, since we can do many things by grace, to which nature is not equal, as stated
above (Q. 109, AA. 1, 2, 3). Therefore grace is not a quality.

Obj. 3: Furthermore, no quality remains after it has ceased to be in its subject. But grace
remains; since it is not corrupted, for thus it would be reduced to nothing, since it was created
from nothing; hence it is called a "new creature"(Gal. 6:15).

On the contrary, on Ps. 103:15: "That he may make the face cheerful with oil"; the gloss says:
"Grace is a certain beauty of soul, which wins the Divine love." But beauty of soul is a quality,
even as beauty of body. Therefore grace is a quality.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 1), there is understood to be an effect of God's gratuitous
will in whoever is said to have God's grace. Now it was stated (Q. 109, A. 1) that man is aided
by God's gratuitous will in two ways: first, inasmuch as man's soul is moved by God to know
or will or do something, and in this way the gratuitous effect in man is not a quality, but
a movement of the soul; for "motion is the act of the mover in the moved." Secondly, man is
helped by God's gratuitous will, inasmuch as a habitual gift is infused by God into the soul;
and for this reason, that it is not fitting that God should provide less for those He loves,
that they may acquire supernatural good, than for creatures, whom He loves that they may acquire
natural good. Now He so provides for natural creatures, that not merely does He move them to
their natural acts, but He bestows upon them certain forms and powers, which are the principles
of acts, in order that they may of themselves be inclined to these movements, and thus the
movements whereby they are moved by God become natural and easy to creatures, according to
Wis. 8:1: "she . . . ordereth all things sweetly." Much more therefore does He infuse into
such as He moves towards the acquisition of supernatural good, certain forms or supernatural
qualities, whereby they may be moved by Him sweetly and promptly to acquire eternal good; and
thus the gift of grace is a quality.

Reply Obj. 1: Grace, as a quality, is said to act upon the soul, not after the manner of an
efficient cause, but after the manner of a formal cause, as whiteness makes a thing white,
and justice, just.

Reply Obj. 2: Every substance is either the nature of the thing whereof it is the substance
or is a part of the nature, even as matter and form are called substance. And because grace
is above human nature, it cannot be a substance or a substantial form, but is an accidental
form of the soul. Now what is substantially in God, becomes accidental in the soul participating
the Divine goodness, as is clear in the case of knowledge. And thus because the soul participates
in the Divine goodness imperfectly, the participation of the Divine goodness, which is grace,
has its being in the soul in a less perfect way than the soul subsists in itself. Nevertheless,
inasmuch as it is the expression or participation of the Divine goodness, it is nobler than
the nature of the soul, though not in its mode of being.

Reply Obj. 3: As Boethius [*Pseudo-Bede, Sent. Phil. ex Artist.] says, the "being of an accident
is to inhere." Hence no accident is called being as if it had being, but because by it something
is; hence it is said to belong to a being rather to be a being (Metaph. vii, text. 2). And
because to become and to be corrupted belong to what is, properly speaking, no accident comes
into being or is corrupted, but is said to come into being and to be corrupted inasmuch as
its subject begins or ceases to be in act with this accident. And thus grace is said to be
created inasmuch as men are created with reference to it, i.e. are given a new being out of
nothing, i.e. not from merits, according to Eph. 2:10, "created in Jesus Christ in good works."

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 110, Art. 3]

Whether Grace Is the Same As Virtue?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is the same as virtue. For Augustine says (De Spir. et
Lit. xiv) that "operating grace is faith that worketh by charity." But faith that worketh by
charity is a virtue. Therefore grace is a virtue.

Obj. 2: Further, what fits the definition, fits the defined. But the definitions of virtue
given by saints and philosophers fit grace, since "it makes its subject good, and his work
good," and "it is a good quality of the mind, whereby we live righteously," etc. Therefore
grace is virtue.

Obj. 3: Further, grace is a quality. Now it is clearly not in the fourth species of quality;
viz. form which is the "abiding figure of things," since it does not belong to bodies. Nor
is it in the third, since it is not a "passion nor a passion-like quality," which is in the
sensitive part of the soul, as is proved in Physic. viii; and grace is principally in the mind.
Nor is it in the second species, which is "natural power" or "impotence"; since grace is above
nature and does not regard good and evil, as does natural power. Therefore it must be in the
first species which is "habit" or "disposition." Now habits of the mind are virtues; since
even knowledge itself is a virtue after a manner, as stated above (Q. 57, AA. 1, 2). Therefore
grace is the same as virtue.

On the contrary, If grace is a virtue, it would seem before all to be one of the three theological
virtues. But grace is neither faith nor hope, for these can be without sanctifying grace. Nor
is it charity, since "grace foreruns charity," as Augustine says in his book on the Predestination
of the Saints (De Dono Persev. xvi). Therefore grace is not virtue.

I answer that, Some held that grace and virtue were identical in essence, and differed only
logically--in the sense that we speak of grace inasmuch as it makes man pleasing to God, or
is given gratuitously--and of virtue inasmuch as it empowers us to act rightly. And the Master
seems to have thought this (Sent. ii, D 27).

But if anyone rightly considers the nature of virtue, this cannot hold, since, as the Philosopher
says (Physic. vii, text. 17), "virtue is disposition of what is perfect--and I call perfect
what is disposed according to its nature." Now from this it is clear that the virtue of a thing
has reference to some pre-existing nature, from the fact that everything is disposed with reference
to what befits its nature. But it is manifest that the virtues acquired by human acts of which
we spoke above (Q. 55, seqq.) are dispositions, whereby a man is fittingly disposed with reference
to the nature whereby he is a man; whereas infused virtues dispose man in a higher manner and
towards a higher end, and consequently in relation to some higher nature, i.e. in relation
to a participation of the Divine Nature, according to 2 Pet. 1:4: "He hath given us most great
and most precious promises; that by these you may be made partakers of the Divine Nature."
And it is in respect of receiving this nature that we are said to be born again sons of God.

And thus, even as the natural light of reason is something besides the acquired virtues, which
are ordained to this natural light, so also the light of grace which is a participation of
the Divine Nature is something besides the infused virtues which are derived from and are ordained
to this light, hence the Apostle says (Eph. For as the acquired virtues enable a man to walk,
in accordance with the natural light of reason, so do the infused virtues enable a man to walk
as befits the light of grace.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine calls "faith that worketh by charity" grace, since the act of faith
of him that worketh by charity is the first act by which sanctifying grace is manifested.

Reply Obj. 2: Good is placed in the definition of virtue with reference to its fitness with
some pre-existing nature essential or participated. Now good is not attributed to grace in
this manner, but as to the root of goodness in man, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Grace is reduced to the first species of quality; and yet it is not the same
as virtue, but is a certain disposition which is presupposed to the infused virtues, as their
principle and root.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 110, Art. 4]

Whether Grace Is in the Essence of the Soul As in a Subject, or in One of the Powers?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is not in the essence of the soul, as in a subject, but
in one of the powers. For Augustine says (Hypognosticon iii [*Among the spurious works of St.
Augustine]) that grace is related to the will or to the free will "as a rider to his horse."
Now the will or the free will is a power, as stated above (I, Q. 83, A. 2). Hence grace is
in a power of the soul, as in a subject.

Obj. 2: Further, "Man's merit springs from grace" as Augustine says (De Gratia et Lib. Arbit.
vi). Now merit consists in acts, which proceed from a power. Hence it seems that grace is a
perfection of a power of the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, if the essence of the soul is the proper subject of grace, the soul, inasmuch
as it has an essence, must be capable of grace. But this is false; since it would follow that
every soul would be capable of grace. Therefore the essence of the soul is not the proper subject
of grace.

Obj. 4: Further, the essence of the soul is prior to its powers. Now what is prior may be understood
without what is posterior. Hence it follows that grace may be taken to be in the soul, although
we suppose no part or power of the soul--viz. neither the will, nor the intellect, nor anything
else; which is impossible.

On the contrary, By grace we are born again sons of God. But generation terminates at the essence
prior to the powers. Therefore grace is in the soul's essence prior to being in the powers.

I answer that, This question depends on the preceding. For if grace is the same as virtue,
it must necessarily be in the powers of the soul as in a subject; since the soul's powers are
the proper subject of virtue, as stated above (Q. 56, A. 1). But if grace differs from virtue,
it cannot be said that a power of the soul is the subject of grace, since every perfection
of the soul's powers has the nature of virtue, as stated above (Q. 55, A. 1; Q. 56, A. 1).
Hence it remains that grace, as it is prior to virtue, has a subject prior to the powers of
the soul, so that it is in the essence of the soul. For as man in his intellective powers participates
in the Divine knowledge through the virtue of faith, and in his power of will participates
in the Divine love through the virtue of charity, so also in the nature of the soul does he
participate in the Divine Nature, after the manner of a likeness, through a certain regeneration
or re-creation.

Reply Obj. 1: As from the essence of the soul flows its powers, which are the principles of
deeds, so likewise the virtues, whereby the powers are moved to act, flow into the powers of
the soul from grace. And thus grace is compared to the will as the mover to the moved, which
is the same comparison as that of a horseman to the horse--but not as an accident to a subject.

And thereby is made clear the Reply to the Second Objection. For grace is the principle of
meritorious works through the medium of virtues, as the essence of the soul is the principal
of vital deeds through the medium of the powers.

Reply Obj. 3: The soul is the subject of grace, as being in the species of intellectual or
rational nature. But the soul is not classed in a species by any of its powers, since the powers
are natural properties of the soul following upon the species. Hence the soul differs specifically
in its essence from other souls, viz. of dumb animals, and of plants. Consequently it does
not follow that, if the essence of the human soul is the subject of grace, every soul may be
the subject of grace; since it belongs to the essence of the soul, inasmuch as it is of such
a species.

Reply Obj. 4: Since the powers of the soul are natural properties following upon the species,
the soul cannot be without them. Yet, granted that it was without them, the soul would still
be called intellectual or rational in its species, not that it would actually have these powers,
but on account of the essence of such a species, from which these powers naturally flow.

QUESTION 111

OF THE DIVISION OF GRACE (In Five Articles)

We must now consider the division of grace; under which head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether grace is fittingly divided into gratuitous grace and sanctifying grace?

(2) Of the division into operating and cooperating grace;

(3) Of the division of it into prevenient and subsequent grace;

(4) Of the division of gratuitous grace;

(5) Of the comparison between sanctifying and gratuitous grace.

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 111, Art. 1]

Whether Grace Is Fittingly Divided into Sanctifying Grace and Gratuitous Grace? For grace is
a gift of God, as is clear from what has been already stated (Q. 110, A. 1). But man is not
therefore pleasing to God because something is given him by God, but rather on the contrary;
since something is freely given by God, because man is pleasing to Him. Hence there is no sanctifying
grace.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is not given on account of preceding merits is given gratis. Now
even natural good is given to man without preceding merit, since nature is presupposed to merit.
Therefore nature itself is given gratuitously by God. But nature is condivided with grace.
Therefore to be gratuitously given is not fittingly set down as a difference of grace, since
it is found outside the genus of grace.

Obj. 3: Further, members of a division are mutually opposed. But even sanctifying grace, whereby
we are justified, is given to us gratuitously, according to Rom. 3:24: "Being justified freely
(gratis) by His grace." Hence sanctifying grace ought not to be divided against gratuitous grace.

On the contrary, The Apostle attributes both to grace, viz. to sanctify and to be gratuitously
given. For with regard to the first he says (Eph. 1:6): "He hath graced us in His beloved son."
And with regard to the second (Rom. 2:6): "And if by grace, it is not now by works, otherwise
grace is no more grace." Therefore grace can be distinguished by its having one only or both.
Now the order of things consists in this, that things are led to God by other things, as Dionysius
says (Coel. Hier. iv). And hence since grace is ordained to lead men to God, this takes place
in a certain order, so that some are led to God by others.

And thus there is a twofold grace: one whereby man himself is united to God, and this is called
"sanctifying grace"; the other is that whereby one man cooperates with another in leading him
to God, and this gift is called "gratuitous grace," since it is bestowed on a man beyond the
capability of nature, and beyond the merit of the person. But whereas it is bestowed on a man,
not to justify him, but rather that he may cooperate in the justification of another, it is
not called sanctifying grace. And it is of this that the Apostle says (1 Cor. 12:7): "And the
manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man unto utility," i.e. of others.

Reply Obj. 1: Grace is said to make pleasing, not efficiently but formally, i.e. because thereby
a man is justified, and is made worthy to be called pleasing to God, according to Col. 1:21:
"He hath made us worthy to be made partakers of the lot of the saints in light."

Reply Obj. 2: Grace, inasmuch as it is gratuitously given, excludes the notion of debt. Now
debt may be taken in two ways: first, as arising from merit; and this regards the person whose
it is to do meritorious works, according to Rom. 4:4: "Now to him that worketh, the reward
is not reckoned according to grace, but according to debt." The second debt regards the condition
of nature. Thus we say it is due to a man to have reason, and whatever else belongs to human
nature. Yet in neither way is debt taken to mean that God is under an obligation to His creature,
but rather that the creature ought to be subject to God, that the Divine ordination may be
fulfilled in it, which is that a certain nature should have certain conditions or properties,
and that by doing certain works it should attain to something further. And hence natural endowments
are not a debt in the first sense but in the second. But supernatural gifts are due in neither
sense. Hence they especially merit the name of grace.

Reply Obj. 3: Sanctifying grace adds to the notion of gratuitous grace something pertaining
to the nature of grace, since it makes man pleasing to God. And hence gratuitous grace which
does not do this keeps the common name, as happens in many other cases; and thus the two parts
of the division are opposed as sanctifying and non-sanctifying grace.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 111, Art. 2]

Whether Grace Is Fittingly Divided into Operating and Cooperating Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is not fittingly divided into operating and cooperating
grace. For grace is an accident, as stated above (Q. 110, A. 2). Now no accident can act upon
its subject. Therefore no grace can be called operating.

Obj. 2: Further, if grace operates anything in us it assuredly brings about justification.
But not only grace works this. For Augustine says, on John 14:12, "the works that I do he also
shall do," says (Serm. clxix): "He Who created thee without thyself, will not justify thee
without thyself." Therefore no grace ought to be called simply operating.

Obj. 3: Further, to cooperate seems to pertain to the inferior agent, and not to the principal
agent. But grace works in us more than free-will, according to Rom. 9:16: "It is not of him
that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy." Therefore no grace ought
to be called cooperating.

Obj. 4: Further, division ought to rest on opposition. But to operate and to cooperate are
not opposed; for one and the same thing can both operate and cooperate. Therefore grace is
not fittingly divided into operating and cooperating.

On the contrary, Augustine says (De Gratia et Lib. Arbit. xvii): "God by cooperating with us,
perfects what He began by operating in us, since He who perfects by cooperation with such as
are willing, begins by operating that they may will." But the operations of God whereby He
moves us to good pertain to grace. Therefore grace is fittingly divided into operating and
cooperating.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 110, A. 2) grace may be taken in two ways; first, as a Divine
help, whereby God moves us to will and to act; secondly, as a habitual gift divinely bestowed
on us.

Now in both these ways grace is fittingly divided into operating and cooperating. For the operation
of an effect is not attributed to the thing moved but to the mover. Hence in that effect in
which our mind is moved and does not move, but in which God is the sole mover, the operation
is attributed to God, and it is with reference to this that we speak of "operating grace."
But in that effect in which our mind both moves and is moved, the operation is not only attributed
to God, but also to the soul; and it is with reference to this that we speak of "cooperating
grace." Now there is a double act in us. First, there is the interior act of the will, and
with regard to this act the will is a thing moved, and God is the mover; and especially when
the will, which hitherto willed evil, begins to will good. And hence, inasmuch as God moves
the human mind to this act, we speak of operating grace. But there is another, exterior act;
and since it is commanded by the will, as was shown above (Q. 17, A. 9) the operation of this
act is attributed to the will. And because God assists us in this act, both by strengthening
our will interiorly so as to attain to the act, and by granting outwardly the capability of
operating, it is with respect to this that we speak of cooperating grace. Hence after the aforesaid
words Augustine subjoins: "He operates that we may will; and when we will, He cooperates that
we may perfect." And thus if grace is taken for God's gratuitous motion whereby He moves us
to meritorious good, it is fittingly divided into operating and cooperating grace.

But if grace is taken for the habitual gift, then again there is a double effect of grace,
even as of every other form; the first of which is being, and the second, operation; thus the
work of heat is to make its subject hot, and to give heat outwardly. And thus habitual grace,
inasmuch as it heals and justifies the soul, or makes it pleasing to God, is called operating
grace; but inasmuch as it is the principle of meritorious works, which spring from the free-will,
it is called cooperating grace.

Reply Obj. 1: Inasmuch as grace is a certain accidental quality, it does not act upon the soul
efficiently, but formally, as whiteness makes a surface white.

Reply Obj. 2: God does not justify us without ourselves, because whilst we are being justified
we consent to God's justification (justitiae) by a movement of our free-will. Nevertheless
this movement is not the cause of grace, but the effect; hence the whole operation pertains
to grace.

Reply Obj. 3: One thing is said to cooperate with another not merely when it is a secondary
agent under a principal agent, but when it helps to the end intended. Now man is helped by
God to will the good, through the means of operating grace. And hence, the end being already
intended, grace cooperates with us.

Reply Obj. 4: Operating and cooperating grace are the same grace; but are distinguished by
their different effects, as is plain from what has been said.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 111, Art. 3]

Whether Grace Is Fittingly Divided into Prevenient and Subsequent Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is not fittingly divided into prevenient and subsequent.
For grace is an effect of the Divine love. But God's love is never subsequent, but always prevenient,
according to 1 John 4:10: "Not as though we had loved God, but because He hath first loved
us." Therefore grace ought not to be divided into prevenient and subsequent.

Obj. 2: Further, there is but one sanctifying grace in man, since it is sufficient, according
to 2 Cor. 12:9: "My grace is sufficient for thee." But the same thing cannot be before and
after. Therefore grace is not fittingly divided into prevenient and subsequent.

Obj. 3: Further, grace is known by its effects. Now there are an infinite number of effects--one
preceding another. Hence if with regard to these, grace must be divided into prevenient and
subsequent, it would seem that there are infinite species of grace. Now no art takes note of
the infinite in number. Hence grace is not fittingly divided into prevenient and subsequent.

On the contrary, God's grace is the outcome of His mercy. Now both are said in Ps. 58:11: "His
mercy shall prevent me," and again, Ps. 22:6: "Thy mercy will follow me." Therefore grace is
fittingly divided into prevenient and subsequent.

I answer that, As grace is divided into operating and cooperating, with regard to its diverse
effects, so also is it divided into prevenient and subsequent, howsoever we consider grace.
Now there are five effects of grace in us: of these, the first is, to heal the soul; the second,
to desire good; the third, to carry into effect the good proposed; the fourth, to persevere
in good; the fifth, to reach glory. And hence grace, inasmuch as it causes the first effect
in us, is called prevenient with respect to the second, and inasmuch as it causes the second,
it is called subsequent with respect to the first effect. And as one effect is posterior to
this effect, and prior to that, so may grace be called prevenient and subsequent on account
of the same effect viewed relatively to divers others. And this is what Augustine says (De
Natura et Gratia xxxi): "It is prevenient, inasmuch as it heals, and subsequent, inasmuch as,
being healed, we are strengthened; it is prevenient, inasmuch as we are called, and subsequent,
inasmuch as we are glorified."

Reply Obj. 1: God's love signifies something eternal; and hence can never be called anything
but prevenient. But grace signifies a temporal effect, which can precede and follow another;
and thus grace may be both prevenient and subsequent.

Reply Obj. 2: The division into prevenient and subsequent grace does not divide grace in its
essence, but only in its effects, as was already said of operating and cooperating grace. For
subsequent grace, inasmuch as it pertains to glory, is not numerically distinct from prevenient
grace whereby we are at present justified. For even as the charity of the earth is not voided
in heaven, so must the same be said of the light of grace, since the notion of neither implies
imperfection.

Reply Obj. 3: Although the effects of grace may be infinite in number, even as human acts are
infinite, nevertheless all are reduced to some of a determinate species, and moreover all coincide
in this--that one precedes another.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 111, Art. 4]

Whether Gratuitous Grace Is Rightly Divided by the Apostle?

Objection 1: It would seem that gratuitous grace is not rightly divided by the Apostle. For
every gift vouchsafed to us by God, may be called a gratuitous grace. Now there are an infinite
number of gifts freely bestowed on us by God as regards both the good of the soul and the good
of the body--and yet they do not make us pleasing to God. Hence gratuitous graces cannot be
contained under any certain division.

Obj. 2: Further, gratuitous grace is distinguished from sanctifying grace. But faith pertains
to sanctifying grace, since we are justified by it, according to Rom. 5:1: "Being justified
therefore by faith." Hence it is not right to place faith amongst the gratuitous graces, especially
since the other virtues are not so placed, as hope and charity.

Obj. 3: Further, the operation of healing, and speaking divers tongues are miracles. Again,
the interpretation of speeches pertains either to wisdom or to knowledge, according to Dan.
1:17: "And to these children God gave knowledge and understanding in every book and wisdom."
Hence it is not correct to divide the grace of healing and kinds of tongues against the working
of miracles; and the interpretation of speeches against the word of wisdom and knowledge.

Obj. 4: Further, as wisdom and knowledge are gifts of the Holy Ghost, so also are understanding,
counsel, piety, fortitude, and fear, as stated above (Q. 68, A. 4). Therefore these also ought
to be placed amongst the gratuitous gifts.

I answer that, As was said above (A. 1), gratuitous grace is ordained to this, viz. that a
man may help another to be led to God. Now no man can help in this by moving interiorly (for
this belongs to God alone), but only exteriorly by teaching or persuading. Hence gratuitous
grace embraces whatever a man needs in order to instruct another in Divine things which are
above reason. Now for this three things are required: first, a man must possess the fullness
of knowledge of Divine things, so as to be capable of teaching others. Secondly, he must be
able to confirm or prove what he says, otherwise his words would have no weight. Thirdly, he
must be capable of fittingly presenting to his hearers what he knows.

Now as regards the first, three things are necessary, as may be seen in human teaching. For
whoever would teach another in any science must first be certain of the principles of the science,
and with regard to this there is faith, which is certitude of invisible things, the principles
of Catholic doctrine. Secondly, it behooves the teacher to know the principal conclusions of
the science, and hence we have the word of wisdom, which is the knowledge of Divine things.
Thirdly, he ought to abound with examples and a knowledge of effects, whereby at times he needs
to manifest causes; and thus we have the word of knowledge, which is the knowledge of human
things, since "the invisible things of Him . . . are clearly seen, being understood by the
things that are made" (Rom. 1:20).

Now the confirmation of such things as are within reason rests upon arguments; but the confirmation
of what is above reason rests on what is proper to the Divine power, and this in two ways:
first, when the teacher of sacred doctrine does what God alone can do, in miraculous deeds,
whether with respect to bodily health--and thus there is the grace of healing, or merely for
the purpose of manifesting the Divine power; for instance, that the sun should stand still
or darken, or that the sea should be divided--and thus there is the working of miracles. Secondly,
when he can manifest what God alone can know, and these are either future contingents--and
thus there is prophecy, or also the secrets of hearts--and thus there is the discerning of spirits.

But the capability of speaking can regard either the idiom in which a person can be understood,
and thus there is kinds of tongues; or it can regard the sense of what is said, and thus there
is the interpretation of speeches.

Reply Obj. 1: As stated above (A. 1), not all the benefits divinely conferred upon us are called
gratuitous graces, but only those that surpass the power of nature--e.g. that a fisherman should
be replete with the word of wisdom and of knowledge and the like; and such as these are here
set down as gratuitous graces.

Reply Obj. 2: Faith is enumerated here under the gratuitous graces, not as a virtue justifying
man in himself, but as implying a super-eminent certitude of faith, whereby a man is fitted
for instructing others concerning such things as belong to the faith. With regard to hope and
charity, they belong to the appetitive power, according as man is ordained thereby to God.

Reply Obj. 3: The grace of healing is distinguished from the general working of miracles because
it has a special reason for inducing one to the faith, since a man is all the more ready to
believe when he has received the gift of bodily health through the virtue of faith. So, too,
to speak with divers tongues and to interpret speeches have special efficacy in bestowing faith.
Hence they are set down as special gratuitous graces.

Reply Obj. 4: Wisdom and knowledge are not numbered among the gratuitous graces in the same
way as they are reckoned among the gifts of the Holy Ghost, i.e. inasmuch as man's mind is
rendered easily movable by the Holy Ghost to the things of wisdom and knowledge; for thus they
are gifts of the Holy Ghost, as stated above (Q. 68, AA. 1, 4). But they are numbered amongst
the gratuitous graces, inasmuch as they imply such a fullness of knowledge and wisdom that
a man may not merely think aright of Divine things, but may instruct others and overpower adversaries.
Hence it is significant that it is the "word" of wisdom and the "word" of knowledge that are
placed in the gratuitous graces, since, as Augustine says (De Trin. xiv, 1), "It is one thing
merely to know what a man must believe in order to reach everlasting life, and another thing
to know how this may benefit the godly and may be defended against the ungodly."

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 111, Art. 5]

Whether Gratuitous Grace Is Nobler Than Sanctifying Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that gratuitous grace is nobler than sanctifying grace. For "the
people's good is better than the individual good," as the Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 2). Now
sanctifying grace is ordained to the good of one man alone, whereas gratuitous grace is ordained
to the common good of the whole Church, as stated above (AA. 1, 4). Hence gratuitous grace
is nobler than sanctifying grace.

Obj. 2: Further, it is a greater power that is able to act upon another, than that which is
confined to itself, even as greater is the brightness of the body that can illuminate other
bodies, than of that which can only shine but cannot illuminate; and hence the Philosopher
says (Ethic. v, 1) "that justice is the most excellent of the virtues," since by it a man bears
himself rightly towards others. But by sanctifying grace a man is perfected only in himself;
whereas by gratuitous grace a man works for the perfection of others. Hence gratuitous grace
is nobler than sanctifying grace.

Obj. 3: Further, what is proper to the best is nobler than what is common to all; thus to reason,
which is proper to man, is nobler than to feel, which is common to all animals. Now sanctifying
grace is common to all members of the Church, but gratuitous grace is the proper gift of the
more exalted members of the Church. Hence gratuitous grace is nobler than sanctifying grace.

On the contrary, The Apostle (1 Cor. 12:31), having enumerated the gratuitous graces, adds:
"And I shew unto you yet a more excellent way"; and as the sequel proves he is speaking of
charity, which pertains to sanctifying grace. Hence sanctifying grace is more noble than gratuitous
grace.

I answer that, The higher the good to which a virtue is ordained, the more excellent is the
virtue. Now the end is always greater than the means. But sanctifying grace ordains a man immediately
to a union with his last end, whereas gratuitous grace ordains a man to what is preparatory
to the end; i.e. by prophecy and miracles and so forth, men are induced to unite themselves
to their last end. And hence sanctifying grace is nobler than gratuitous grace.

Reply Obj. 1: As the Philosopher says (Metaph. xii, text. 52), a multitude, as an army, has
a double good; the first is in the multitude itself, viz. the order of the army; the second
is separate from the multitude, viz. the good of the leader--and this is better good, since
the other is ordained to it. Now gratuitous grace is ordained to the common good of the Church,
which is ecclesiastical order, whereas sanctifying grace is ordained to the separate common
good, which is God. Hence sanctifying grace is the nobler.

Reply Obj. 2: If gratuitous grace could cause a man to have sanctifying grace, it would follow
that the gratuitous grace was the nobler; even as the brightness of the sun that enlightens
is more excellent than that of an object that is lit up. But by gratuitous grace a man cannot
cause another to have union with God, which he himself has by sanctifying grace; but he causes
certain dispositions towards it. Hence gratuitous grace needs not to be the more excellent,
even as in fire, the heat, which manifests its species whereby it produces heat in other things,
is not more noble than its substantial form.

Reply Obj. 3: Feeling is ordained to reason, as to an end; and thus, to reason is nobler. But
here it is the contrary; for what is proper is ordained to what is common as to an end. Hence
there is no comparison.

QUESTION 112

OF THE CAUSE OF GRACE (In Five Articles)

We must now consider the cause of grace; and under this head there are five points of inquiry:

(1) Whether God alone is the efficient cause of grace?

(2) Whether any disposition towards grace is needed on the part of the recipient, by an act
of free-will?

(3) Whether such a disposition can make grace follow of necessity?

(4) Whether grace is equal in all?

(5) Whether anyone may know that he has grace?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 112, Art. 1]

Whether God Alone Is the Cause of Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that God alone is not the cause of grace. For it is written (John
1:17): "Grace and truth came by Jesus Christ." Now, by the name of Jesus Christ is understood
not merely the Divine Nature assuming, but the created nature assumed. Therefore a creature
may be the cause of grace.

Obj. 2: Further, there is this difference between the sacraments of the New Law and those of
the Old, that the sacraments of the New Law cause grace, whereas the sacraments of the Old
Law merely signify it. Now the sacraments of the New Law are certain visible elements. Therefore
God is not the only cause of grace.

Obj. 3: Further, according to Dionysius (Coel. Hier. iii, iv, vii, viii), "Angels cleanse,
enlighten, and perfect both lesser angels and men." Now the rational creature is cleansed,
enlightened, and perfected by grace. Therefore God is not the only cause of grace. Now the
gift of grace surpasses every capability of created nature, since it is nothing short of a
partaking of the Divine Nature, which exceeds every other nature. And thus it is impossible
that any creature should cause grace. For it is as necessary that God alone should deify, bestowing
a partaking of the Divine Nature by a participated likeness, as it is impossible that anything
save fire should enkindle.

Reply Obj. 1: Christ's humanity is an "organ of His Godhead," as Damascene says (De Fide Orth.
iii, 19). Now an instrument does not bring forth the action of the principal agent by its own
power, but in virtue of the principal agent. Hence Christ's humanity does not cause grace by
its own power, but by virtue of the Divine Nature joined to it, whereby the actions of Christ's
humanity are saving actions.

Reply Obj.

Reply Obj. 3: Angels cleanse, enlighten, and perfect angels or men, by instruction, and not
by justifying them through grace. Hence Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. vii) that "this cleansing
and enlightenment and perfecting is nothing else than the assumption of Divine knowledge."

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 112, Art. 2]

Whether Any Preparation and Disposition for Grace Is Required on Man's Part? Now a man's preparation
by free-will can only be through some operation. Hence it would do away with the notion of grace.

Obj. 2: Further, whoever is going on sinning, is not preparing himself to have grace. But to
some who are going on sinning grace is given, as is clear in the case of Paul, who received
grace whilst he was "breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the
Lord" (Act 9:1). Hence no preparation for grace is required on man's part.

Obj. 3: Further, an agent of infinite power needs no disposition in matter, since it does not
even require matter, as appears in creation, to which grace is compared, which is called "a
new creature" (Gal. 6:15). But only God, Who has infinite power, causes grace, as stated above
(A. 1). Hence no preparation is required on man's part to obtain grace.

On the contrary, It is written (Amos 4:12): "Be prepared to meet thy God, O Israel," and (1
Kings 7:3): "Prepare your hearts unto the Lord."

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 111, A. 2), grace is taken in two ways: first, as a habitual
gift of God. Secondly, as a help from God, Who moves the soul to good. Now taking grace in
the first sense, a certain preparation of grace is required for it, since a form can only be
in disposed matter. But if we speak of grace as it signifies a help from God to move us to
good, no preparation is required on man's part, that, as it were, anticipates the Divine help,
but rather, every preparation in man must be by the help of God moving the soul to good. And
thus even the good movement of the free-will, whereby anyone is prepared for receiving the
gift of grace, is an act of the free-will moved by God. And thus man is said to prepare himself,
according to Prov. 16:1: "It is the part of man to prepare the soul"; yet it is principally
from God, Who moves the free-will. Hence it is said that man's will is prepared by God, and
that man's steps are guided by God.

Reply Obj. 1: A certain preparation of man for grace is simultaneous with the infusion of grace;
and this operation is meritorious, not indeed of grace, which is already possessed--but of
glory which is not yet possessed. But there is another imperfect preparation, which sometimes
precedes the gift of sanctifying grace, and yet it is from God's motion. But it does not suffice
for merit, since man is not yet justified by grace, and merit can only arise from grace, as
will be seen further on (Q. 114, A. 2).

Reply Obj. 2: Since a man cannot prepare himself for grace unless God prevent and move him
to good, it is of no account whether anyone arrive at perfect preparation instantaneously,
or step by step. For it is written (Ecclus. Now it sometimes happens that God moves a man to
good, but not perfect good, and this preparation precedes grace. And thus it happened to Paul,
since, suddenly when he was in the midst of sin, his heart was perfectly moved by God to hear,
to learn, to come; and hence he received grace suddenly.

Reply Obj. 3: An agent of infinite power needs no matter or disposition of matter, brought
about by the action of something else; and yet, looking to the condition of the thing caused,
it must cause, in the thing caused, both the matter and the due disposition for the form. So
likewise, when God infuses grace into a soul, no preparation is required which He Himself does
not bring about.

THIRD ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 112, Art. 3]

Whether Grace Is Necessarily Given to Whoever Prepares Himself for It, or to Whoever Does What
He Can?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is necessarily given to whoever prepares himself for
grace, or to whoever does what he can, because, on Rom. 5:1, "Being justified . . . by faith,
let us have peace," etc. the gloss says: "God welcomes whoever flies to Him, otherwise there
would be injustice with Him." But it is impossible for injustice to be with God. Therefore
it is impossible for God not to welcome whoever flies to Him. Hence he receives grace of necessity.

Obj. 2: Further, Anselm says (De Casu Diaboli. iii) that the reason why God does not bestow
grace on the devil, is that he did not wish, nor was he prepared, to receive it. But if the
cause be removed, the effect must needs be removed also. Therefore, if anyone is willing to
receive grace it is bestowed on them of necessity.

Obj. 3: Further, good is diffusive of itself, as appears from Dionysius (Div. Nom. iv). Now
the good of grace is better than the good of nature. Hence, since natural forms necessarily
come to disposed matter, much more does it seem that grace is necessarily bestowed on whoever
prepares himself for grace.

On the contrary, Man is compared to God as clay to the potter, according to Jer. 18:6: "As
clay is in the hand of the potter, so are you in My hand." But however much the clay is prepared,
it does not necessarily receive its shape from the potter. Hence, however much a man prepares
himself, he does not necessarily receive grace from God.

I answer that, As stated above (A. 2), man's preparation for grace is from God, as Mover, and
from the free-will, as moved. Hence the preparation may be looked at in two ways: first, as
it is from free-will, and thus there is no necessity that it should obtain grace, since the
gift of grace exceeds every preparation of human power.

Reply Obj. 1: This gloss is speaking of such as fly to God by a meritorious act of their free-will,
already informed with grace; for if they did not receive grace, it would be against the justice
which He Himself established. Or if it refers to the movement of free-will before grace, it
is speaking in the sense that man's flight to God is by a Divine motion, which ought not, in
justice, to fail.

Reply Obj.

Reply Obj. 3: Even in natural things, the form does not necessarily ensue the disposition of
the matter, except by the power of the agent that causes the disposition.

FOURTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 112, Art. 4]

Whether Grace Is Greater in One Than in Another?

Objection 1: It would seem that grace is not greater in one than in another. For grace is caused
in us by the Divine love, as stated above (Q. 110, A. 1). Now it is written (Wis. 6:8): "He
made the little and the great and He hath equally care of all." Therefore all obtain grace
from Him equally.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever is the greatest possible, cannot be more or less. But grace is the
greatest possible, since it joins us with our last end. Therefore there is no greater or less
in it. Hence it is not greater in one than in another.

Obj. 3: Further, grace is the soul's life, as stated above (Q. 110, A. 1, ad 2). But there
is no greater or less in life. Hence, neither is there in grace.

On the contrary, It is written (Eph. 4:7): "But to every one of us is given grace according
to the measure of the giving of Christ." Now what is given in measure, is not given to all
equally. Hence all have not an equal grace.

I answer that, As stated above (Q. 52, AA. 1, 2; Q. 56, AA. 1, 2), habits can have a double
magnitude: one, as regards the end or object, as when a virtue is said to be more noble through
being ordained to a greater good; the other on the part of the subject, which more or less
participates in the habit inhering to it.

Now as regards the first magnitude, sanctifying grace cannot be greater or less, since, of
its nature, grace joins man to the Highest Good, which is God. But as regards the subject,
grace can receive more or less, inasmuch as one may be more perfectly enlightened by grace
than another. And a certain reason for this is on the part of him who prepares himself for
grace; since he who is better prepared for grace, receives more grace. Yet it is not here that
we must seek the first cause of this diversity, since man prepares himself, only inasmuch as
his free-will is prepared by God. Hence the first cause of this diversity is to be sought on
the part of God, Who dispenses His gifts of grace variously, in order that the beauty and perfection
of the Church may result from these various degrees; even as He instituted the various conditions
of things, that the universe might be perfect. 4:12): "For the perfecting of the saints . .
. for the edifying of the body of Christ."

Reply Obj. 1: The Divine care may be looked at in two ways: first, as regards the Divine act,
which is simple and uniform; and thus His care looks equally to all, since by one simple act
He administers great things and little. But, secondly, it may be considered in those things
which come to be considered by the Divine care; and thus, inequality is found, inasmuch as
God by His care provides greater gifts to some, and lesser gifts for others.

Reply Obj. 2: This objection is based on the first kind of magnitude of grace; since grace
cannot be greater by ordaining to a greater good, but inasmuch as it more or less ordains to
a greater or less participation of the same good. For there may be diversity of intensity and
remissness, both in grace and in final glory as regards the subjects' participation.

Reply Obj. 3: Natural life pertains to man's substance, and hence cannot be more or less; but
man partakes of the life of grace accidentally, and hence man may possess it more or less.

FIFTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 112, Art. 5]

Whether Man Can Know That He Has Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem that man can know that he has grace. For grace by its physical reality
is in the soul. Now the soul has most certain knowledge of those things that are in it by their
physical reality, as appears from Augustine (Gen. ad lit. xii, 31). Hence grace may be known
most certainly by one who has grace.

Obj. 2: Further, as knowledge is a gift of God, so is grace. But whoever receives knowledge
from God, knows that he has knowledge, according to Wis. 7:17: The Lord "hath given me the
true knowledge of the things that are." Hence, with equal reason, whoever receives grace from
God, knows that he has grace.

Obj. 3: Further, light is more knowable than darkness, since, according to the Apostle (Eph.
5:13), "all that is made manifest is light." Now sin, which is spiritual darkness, may be known
with certainty by one that is in sin. Much more, therefore, may grace, which is spiritual light,
be known.

Obj. Now grace is God's first gift. Hence, the man who receives grace by the Holy Spirit, by
the same Holy Spirit knows the grace given to him.

Obj. 5: Further, it was said by the Lord to Abraham (Gen. 22:12): "Now I know that thou fearest
God," i.e. "I have made thee know." Now He is speaking there of chaste fear, which is not apart
from grace. Hence a man may know that he has grace.

On the contrary, It is written (Eccles. 9:1): "Man knoweth not whether he be worthy of love
or hatred." Now sanctifying grace maketh a man worthy of God's love. Therefore no one can know
whether he has sanctifying grace.

I answer that, There are three ways of knowing a thing: first, by revelation, and thus anyone
may know that he has grace, for God by a special privilege reveals this at times to some, in
order that the joy of safety may begin in them even in this life, and that they may carry on
toilsome works with greater trust and greater energy, and may bear the evils of this present
life, as when it was said to Paul (2 Cor. 12:9): "My grace is sufficient for thee."

