The history of Sir Launcelot Greaves was a theme which effectually fixed the attention of Aurelia,
distracted as her ideas must have been by the circumstances of her present situation.  The
particulars of his conduct since the correspondence between him and her had ceased, she heard
with equal concern and astonishment; for, how far soever she deemed herself detached from all
possibility of future connexion with that young gentleman, she was not made of such indifferent
stuff as to learn without emotion the calamitous disorder of an accomplished youth, whose extraordinary
virtues she could not but revere.

As they had deviated from the post-road, taken precautions to conceal their route, and made
such progress, that they were now within one day's journey of London, the careful and affectionate
Dolly, seeing her dear lady quite exhausted with fatigue, used all her natural rhetoric, which
was very powerful, mingled with tears that flowed from the heart, in persuading Aurelia to
enjoy some repose; and so far she succeeded in the attempt, that for one night the toil of
travelling was intermitted.  This recess from incredible fatigue was a pause that afforded
our adventurer time to overtake them before they reached the metropolis, that vast labyrinth,
in which Aurelia might have been for ever lost to his inquiry.

It was in the afternoon of the day which succeeded his departure from the White Hart, that
Sir Launcelot arrived at the inn, where Miss Aurelia Darnel had bespoke a dish of tea, and
a post-chaise for the next stage. He had by inquiry traced her a considerable way, without
ever dreaming who the person really was whom he thus pursued, and now he desired to speak with
her attendant.  Dolly was not a little surprised to see Sir Launcelot Greaves, of whose character
she had conceived a very sublime idea from the narrative of Mr. Thomas Clarke; but she was
still more surprised when he gave her to understand that he had charged himself with a pocket-book,
containing the bank-notes which Miss Meadows had dropped in the house where they had been threatened
with insult.  Miss Darnel had not yet discovered her disaster, when her attendant, running
into the apartment, presented the prize which she had received from our adventurer, with his
compliments to Miss Meadows, implying a request to be admitted into her presence, that he might
make a personal tender of his best services.

It is not to be supposed that the amiable Aurelia heard unmoved such a message from a person,
whom her maid discovered to be the identical Sir Launcelot Greaves, whose story she had so
lately related; but as the ensuing scene requires fresh attention in the reader, we shall defer
it till another opportunity, when his spirits shall be recruited from the fatigue of this chapter.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

EXHIBITING AN INTERVIEW, WHICH, IT IS TO BE HOPED, WILL INTEREST THE CURIOSITY OF THE READER.

The mind of the delicate Aurelia was strangely agitated by the intelligence which she received
with her pocket-book from Dolly. Confounded as she was by the nature of her situation, she
at once perceived that she could not, with any regard to the dictates of gratitude, refuse
complying with the request of Sir Launcelot; but, in the first hurry of her emotion, she directed
Dolly to beg, in her name, that she might be excused for wearing a mask at the interview which
he desired, as she had particular reasons, which concerned her peace, for retaining that disguise.
Our adventurer submitted to this preliminary with a good grace, as he had nothing in view but
the injunction of his order, and the duties of humanity; and he was admitted without further
preamble.

When he entered the room, he could not help being struck with the presence of Aurelia.  Her
stature was improved since he had seen her; her shape was exquisitely formed; and she received
him with an air of dignity, which impressed him with a very sublime idea of her person and
character.  She was no less affected at the sight of our adventurer, who, though cased in armour,
appeared with his head uncovered; and the exercise of travelling had thrown such a glow of
health and vivacity on his features, which were naturally elegant and expressive, that we will
venture to say, there was not in all England a couple that excelled this amiable pair in personal
beauty and accomplishments.  Aurelia shone with all the fabled graces of nymph or goddess;
and to Sir Launcelot might be applied what the divine poet Ariosto says of the Prince Zerbino:

     Natura il fece e poi ruppe la stampa
     When Nature stamp'd him, she the die destroy'd.

Our adventurer having made his obeisance to this supposed Miss Meadows, told her, with an air
of pleasantry, that although he thought himself highly honoured in being admitted to her presence,
and allowed to pay his respects to her, as superior beings are adored, unseen; yet his pleasure
would receive a very considerable addition, if she would be pleased to withdraw that invidious
veil, that he might have a glimpse of the divinity which it concealed.  Aurelia immediately
took off her mask, saying with a faltering accent, "I cannot be so ungrateful as to deny such
a small favour to a gentleman who has laid me under the most important obligations."

The unexpected apparition of Miss Aurelia Darnel, beaming with all the emanations of ripened
beauty, blushing with all the graces of the most lovely confusion, could not but produce a
violent effect upon the mind of Sir Launcelot Greaves.  He was, indeed, overwhelmed with a
mingled transport of astonishment, admiration, affection, and awe.  The colour vanished from
his cheeks, and he stood gazing upon her, in silence, with the most emphatic expression of
countenance.

Aurelia was infected by his disorder.  She began to tremble, and the roses fluctuated on her
face.  "I cannot forget," said she, "that I owe my life to the courage and humanity of Sir
Launcelot Greaves, and that he at the same time rescued from the most dreadful death a dear
and venerable parent."--"Would to Heaven she still survived!" cried our adventurer, with great
emotion.  "She was the friend of my youth, the kind patroness of my felicity!  My guardian
angel forsook me when she expired!  Her last injunctions are deep engraver on my heart!"

While he pronounced these words, she lifted her handkerchief to her fair eyes, and, after some
pause, proceeded in a tremulous tone, "I hope, sir, --I hope you have--I should be sorry--Pardon
me, sir, I cannot reflect upon such an interesting subject unmoved"--Here she fetched a deep
sigh, that was accompanied by a flood of tears; while the knight continued to bend his eyes
upon her with the utmost eagerness of attention.

Having recollected herself a little, she endeavoured to shift the conversation: "You have been
abroad since I had the pleasure to see you --I hope you were agreeably amused in your travels."--"No,
madam," said our hero, drooping his head; "I have been unfortunate."  When she, with the most
enchanting sweetness of benevolence, expressed her concern to hear he had been unhappy, and
her hope that his misfortunes were not past remedy; he lifted up his eyes, and fixing them
upon her again, with a look of tender dejection, "Cut off," said he, "from the possession of
what my soul held most dear, I wished for death, and was visited by distraction.  I have been
abandoned by my reason--my youth is for ever blasted."

The tender heart of Aurelia could bear no more--her knees began to totter, the lustre vanished
from her eyes, and she fainted in the arms of her attendant.  Sir Launcelot, aroused by this
circumstance, assisted Dolly in seating her mistress on a couch, where she soon recovered,
and saw the knight on his knees before her.  "I am still happy," said he, "in being able to
move your compassion, though I have been held unworthy of your esteem."--"Do me justice," she
replied; "my best esteem has been always inseparably connected with the character of Sir Launcelot
Greaves."--"Is it possible?" cried our hero; "then surely I have no reason to complain.  If
I have moved your compassion, and possess your esteem, I am but one degree short of supreme
happiness--that, however, is a gigantic step.  O Miss Darnel! when I remember that dear, that
melancholy moment."--So saying he gently touched her hand, in order to press it to his lips,
and perceived on her finger the very individual ring which he had presented in her mother's
presence, as an interchanged testimony of plighted faith.  Starting at the well-known object,
the sight of which conjured up a strange confusion of ideas, "This," said he, "was once the
pledge of something still more cordial than esteem." Aurelia, blushing at this remark, while
her eyes lightened with unusual vivacity, replied, in a severer tone, "Sir, you best know how
it lost its original signification."--"By Heaven! I do not, madam!" exclaimed our adventurer.
"With me it was ever held a sacred idea throned within my heart, cherished with such fervency
of regard, with such reverence of affection, as the devout anchorite more unreasonably pays
to those sainted reliques that constitute the object of his adoration."--"And, like those reliques,"
answered Miss Darnel, "I have been insensible of my votary's devotion.  A saint I must have
been, or something more, to know the sentiments of your heart by inspiration."

"Did I forbear," said he, "to express, to repeat, to enforce the dictates of the purest passion
that ever warmed the human breast, until I was denied access, and formally discarded by that
cruel dismission?"--"I must beg your pardon, sir," cried Aurelia, interrupting him hastily,
"I know not what you mean."--"That fatal sentence," said he, "if not pronounced by your own
lips, at least written by your own fair hand, which drove me out an exile for ever from the
paradise of your affection."--"I would not," she replied, "do Sir Launcelot Greaves the injury
to suppose him capable of imposition; but you talk of things to which I am an utter stranger.
I have a right, sir, to demand of your honour, that you will not impute to me your breaking
off a connexion, which--I would--rather wish--had never"----"Heaven and earth! what do I hear?"
cried our impatient knight; "have I not the baleful letter to produce?  What else but Miss
Darnel's explicit and express declaration could have destroyed the sweetest hope that ever
cheered my soul; could have obliged me to resign all claim to that felicity for which alone
I wished to live; could have filled my bosom with unutterable sorrow and despair; could have
even divested me of reason, and driven me from the society of men, a poor, forlorn, wandering
lunatic, such as you see me now prostrate at your feet; all the blossoms of my youth withered,
all the honours of my family decayed?"

Aurelia looking wishfully at her lover, "Sir," said she, "you overwhelm me with amazement and
anxiety! you are imposed upon, if you have received any such letter.  You are deceived, if
you thought Aurelia Darnel could be so insensible, ungrateful, and--inconstant."

This last word she pronounced with some hesitation, and a downcast look, while her face underwent
a total suffusion, and the knight's heart began to palpitate with all the violence of emotion.
He eagerly imprinted a kiss upon her hand, exclaiming, in interrupted phrase, "Can it be possible?--Heaven
grant--Sure this is no illusion!--O madam!--shall I call you my Aurelia?  My heart is bursting
with a thousand fond thoughts and presages.  You shall see that dire paper which has been the
source of all my woes--it is the constant companion of my travels--last night I nourished my
chagrin with the perusal of its horrid contents."

Aurelia expressed great impatience to view the cruel forgery, for such she assured him it must
be.  But he could not gratify her desire, till the arrival of his servant with the portmanteau.
Their mutual disorder communicated itself to the kind-hearted sympathising Dolly, who had been
witness to the interview, and deeply affected at the disclosure of the scene.  Unspeakable
was her surprise, when she found her mistress, Miss Meadows, was no other than the celebrated
Aurelia Darnel, whose eulogium she had heard so eloquently pronounced by her sweetheart, Mr.
Thomas Clarke; a discovery which still more endeared her lady to her affection.  She had wept
plentifully at the progress of their mutual explanation, and was now so disconcerted, that
she scarce knew the meaning of the orders she had received.  She set the kettle on the table,
and placed the tea-board on the fire.  Her confusion, by attracting the notice of her mistress,
helped to relieve her from her own embarrassing situation.  She, with her own delicate hands,
rectified the mistake of Dolly, who still continued to sob, and said, "Yau may think, my Leady
Darnel, as haw I'aive yeaten hool-cheese; but it y'an't soa.  I'se think, vor mai peart, as
how I'aive bean bewitched."

Sir Launcelot could not help smiling at the simplicity of Dolly, whose goodness of heart and
attachment Aurelia did not fail to extol, as soon as her back was turned.  It was in consequence
of this commendation, that, the next time she entered the room, our adventurer, for the first
time, considered her face, and seemed to be struck with her features.  He asked her some questions,
which she could not answer to his satisfaction; applauded her regard for her lady, and assured
her of his friendship and protection.  He now begged to know the cause that obliged his Aurelia
to travel at such a rate, and in such an equipage; and she informed him of those particulars
which we have already communicated to our reader.

Sir Launcelot glowed with resentment, when he understood how his dear Aurelia had been oppressed
by her perfidious and cruel guardian.  But she concluded with these words: 'The rest we must
leave to the dispensations of Providence.'  Was it not Providence that sent me hither to guard
and protect the injured Aurelia?"  Then turning to Miss Darnel, whose eyes streamed with tears,
he added, "Yes, divine creature!  Heaven, careful of your safety, and in compassion to my sufferings,
hath guided me hither, in this mysterious manner, that I might defend you from violence, and
enjoy this transition from madness to deliberation, from despair to felicity."

So saying, he approached this amiable mourner, this fragrant flower of beauty, glittering with
the dew-drops of the morning; this sweetest, and gentlest, loveliest ornament of human nature.
He gazed upon her with looks of love ineffable; he sat down by her; he pressed her soft hand
in his; he began to fear that all he saw was the flattering vision of a distempered brain;
he looked and sighed, and, turning up his eyes to heaven, breathed, in broken murmurs, the
chaste raptures of his soul. The tenderness of this communication was too painful to be long
endured. Aurelia industriously interposed other subjects of discourse, that his attention might
not be dangerously overcharged, and the afternoon passed insensibly away.

Though he had determined, in his own mind, never more to quit this idol of his soul, they had
not yet concerted any plan of conduct, when their happiness was all at once interrupted by
a repetition of cries, denoting horror; and a servant coming in, said he believed some rogues
were murdering a traveller on the highway.  The supposition of such distress operated like
gunpowder on the disposition of our adventurer, who, without considering the situation of Aurelia,
and indeed without seeing, or being capable to think on her or any other subject for the time
being, ran directly to the stable, and, mounting the first horse which he found saddled, issued
out in the twilight, having no other weapon but his sword.

He rode full speed to the spot whence the cries seemed to proceed; but they sounded more remote
as he advanced.  Nevertheless, he followed them to a considerable distance from the road, over
fields, ditches, and hedges; and at last came so near, that he could plainly distinguish the
voice of his own squire, Timothy Crabshaw, bellowing for mercy, with hideous vociferation.
Stimulated by this recognition, he redoubled his career in the dark, till at length his horse
plunged into a hole, the nature of which he could not comprehend; but he found it impracticable
to disengage him.  It was with some difficulty that he himself clambered over a ruined wall,
and regained the open ground.  Here he groped about, in the utmost impatience of anxiety, ignorant
of the place, mad with vexation for the fate of his unfortunate squire, and between whiles
invaded with a pang of concern for Aurelia, left among strangers, unguarded, and alarmed.

In the midst of this emotion, he bethought himself of hallooing aloud, that, in case he should
be in the neighbourhood of any inhabited place, he might be heard and assisted.  He accordingly
practised this expedient, which was not altogether without effect; for he was immediately answered
by an old friend, no other than his own steed Bronzomarte, who, hearing his master's voice,
neighed strenuously at a small distance.  The knight, being well acquainted with the sound,
heard it with astonishment, and, advancing in the right direction, found his noble charger
fastened to a tree.  He forthwith untied and mounted him; then, laying the reins upon his neck,
allowed him to choose his own path, in which he began to travel with equal steadiness and expedition.
They had not proceeded far, when the knight's ears were again saluted by the cries of Crabshaw;
which Bronzomarte no sooner heard, than he pricked up his ears, neighed, and quickened his
pace, as if he had been sensible of the squire's distress, and hastened to his relief.  Sir
Launcelot, notwithstanding his own disquiet, could not help observing and admiring this generous
sensibility of his horse.  He began to think himself some hero of romance, mounted upon a winged
steed, inspired with reason, directed by some humane enchanter, who pitied virtue in distress.
All circumstances considered, it is no wonder that the commotion in the mind of our adventurer
produced some such delirium.  All night he continued the chase; the voice, which was repeated
at intervals, still retreating before him, till the morning began to appear in the east, when,
by divers piteous groans, he was directed to the corner of a wood, where he beheld his miserable
squire stretched upon the grass, and Gilbert feeding by him altogether unconcerned, the helmet
and the lance suspended at the saddle-bow, and the portmanteau safely fixed upon the crupper.

The knight, riding up to Crabshaw, with equal surprise and concern, asked what had brought
him there? and Timothy, after some pause, during which he surveyed his master with a rueful
aspect, answered, "The devil."--"One would imagine, indeed, you had some such conveyance,"
said Sir Launcelot. "I have followed your cries since last evening, I know not how nor whither,
and never could come up with you till this moment.  But, say, what damage have you sustained,
that you lie in that wretched posture, and groan so dismally?"  "I can't guess," replied the
squire, "if it bean't that mai hoole carcase is drilled into oilet hools, and my flesh pinched
into a jelly."--"How! wherefore!" cried the knight; "who were the miscreants that treated you
in such a barbarous manner?  Do you know the ruffians?"--"I know nothing at all," answered
the peevish squire, "but that I was tormented by vive houndred and vifty thousand legions of
devils, and there's an end oon't."--"Well, you must have a little patience, Crabshaw--there's
a salve for every sore."--"Yaw mought as well tell ma, for every zow there's a zirreverence."--"For
a man in your condition, methinks you talk very much at your ease--try if you can get up and
mount Gilbert, that you may be conveyed to some place where you can have proper assistance.--So--well
done--cheerly!"

Timothy actually made an effort to rise, but fell down again, and uttered a dismal yell.  Then
his master exhorted him to take advantage of a park wall, by which he lay, and raise himself
gradually upon it.  Crabshaw, eyeing him askance, said, by way of reproach, for his not alighting
and assisting him in person, "Thatch your house with t--d, and you'll have more teachers than
reachers."--Having pronounced this inelegant adage, he made shift to stand upon his legs; and
now, the knight lending a hand, was mounted upon Gilbert, though not without a world of ohs!
and ahs! and other ejaculations of pain and impatience.

As they jogged on together, our adventurer endeavoured to learn the particulars of the disaster
which had befallen the squire; but all the information he could obtain, amounted to a very
imperfect sketch of the adventure.  By dint of a thousand interrogations, he understood, that
Crabshaw had been, in the preceding evening, encountered by three persons on horseback, with
Venetian masks on their faces, which he mistook for their natural features, and was terrified
accordingly.  That they not only presented pistols to his breast, and led his horse out of
the highway; but pricked him with goads, and pinched him, from time to time, till he screamed
with the torture.  That he was led through unfrequented places across the country, sometimes
at an easy trot, sometimes at full gallop, and tormented all night by those hideous demons,
who vanished at daybreak, and left him lying on the spot where he was found by his master.

This was a mystery which our hero could by no means unriddle.  It was the more unaccountable,
as the squire had not been robbed of his money, horses, and baggage.  He was even disposed
to believe that Crabshaw's brain was disordered, and the whole account he had given no more
than a mere chimera.  This opinion, however, he could no longer retain, when he arrived at
an inn on the post-road, and found, upon examination, that Timothy's lower extremities were
covered with blood, and all the rest of his body speckled with livid marks of contusion.  But
he was still more chagrined when the landlord informed him, that he was thirty miles distant
from the place where he had left Aurelia, and that his way lay through cross-roads, which were
almost impassable at that season of the year.  Alarmed at this intelligence, he gave directions
that his squire should be immediately conveyed to bed in a comfortable chamber, as he complained
more and more; and, indeed, was seized with a fever, occasioned by the fatigue, the pain, and
terror he had undergone.  A neighbouring apothecary being called, and giving it as his opinion
that he could not for some days be in a condition to travel, his master deposited a sum of
money in his hands, desiring he might be properly attended till he should hear further.  Then
mounting Bronzomarte, he set out with a guide for the place he had left, not without a thousand
fears and perplexities, arising from the reflection of having left the jewel of his heart with
such precipitation.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

WHICH, IT IS TO BE HOPED, THE READER WILL FIND AN AGREEABLE MEDLEY OF MIRTH AND MADNESS, SENSE
AND ABSURDITY.

It was not without reason that our adventurer afflicted himself; his fears were but too prophetic.
When he alighted at the inn, which he had left so abruptly the preceding evening, he ran directly
to the apartment where he had been so happy in Aurelia's company; but her he saw not--all was
solitary.  Turning to the woman of the house, who had followed him into the room, "Where is
the lady?" cried he, in a tone of impatience. Mine hostess screwing up her features into a
very demure aspect, said she saw so many ladies she could not pretend to know who he meant.
"I tell thee, woman," exclaimed the knight, in a louder accent, "thou never sawest such another--I
mean that miracle of beauty"--"Very like," replied the dame, as she retired to the room door.
"Husband, here's one as axes concerning a miracle of beauty; hi, hi, hi.  Can you give him
any information about this miracle of beauty?  O la! hi, hi, hi."

Instead of answering this question, the innkeeper advancing, and surveying Sir Launcelot, "Friend,"
said he, "you are the person that carried off my horse out of the stable."--"Tell me not of
a horse--where is the young lady?"--"Now, I will tell you of the horse, and I'll make you find
him too before you and I part."--"Wretched animal! how dar'st thou dally with my impatience?
Speak, or despair--what is become of Miss Meadows?  Say, did she leave this place of her own
accord, or was she-- hah! speak--answer, or by the powers above"--"I'll answer you flat--she
you call Miss Meadows is in very good hands--so you may make yourself easy on that score."--"Sacred
Heaven! explain your meaning, miscreant, or I'll make you a dreadful example to all the insolent
publicans of the realm."  So saying, he seized him with one hand and dashed him on the floor,
set one foot on his belly, and kept him trembling in that prostrate attitude.  The ostler and
waiter flying to the assistance of their master, our adventurer unsheathed his sword, declaring
he would dismiss their souls from their bodies, and exterminate the whole family from the face
of the earth, if they would not immediately give him the satisfaction he required.

The hostess being by this time terrified almost out of her senses, fell on her knees before
him, begging he would spare their lives, and promising to declare the whole truth.  He would
not, however, remove his foot from the body of her husband until she told him, that in less
than half an hour after he had sallied out upon the supposed robbers, two chaises arrived,
each drawn by four horses; that two men, armed with pistols, alighted from one of them, laid
violent hands upon the young lady; and, notwithstanding her struggling and shrieking, forced
her into the other carriage, in which was an infirm gentleman, who called himself her guardian;
that the maid was left to the care of a third servant, to follow with a third chaise, which
was got ready with all possible despatch, while the other two proceeded at full speed on the
road to London.  It was by this communicative lacquey the people of the house were informed
that the old gentleman his master was Squire Darnel, the young lady his niece and ward, and
our adventurer a needy sharper who wanted to make a prey of her fortune.

The knight, fired even almost to frenzy by this intimation, spurned the carcase of his host;
and, his eye gleaming terror, rushed into the yard, in order to mount Bronzomarte and pursue
the ravisher, when he was diverted from his purpose by a new incident.

One of the postillions, who had driven the chaise in which Dolly was conveyed, happened to
arrive at that instant; when, seeing our hero, he ran up to him cap in hand, and, presenting
a letter, accosted him in these words: "Please your noble honour, if your honour be Sir Launcelot
Greaves of the West Riding, here's a letter from a gentlewoman, that I promised to deliver
into your honour's own hands."

The knight, snatching the letter with the utmost avidity, broke it up, and found the contents
couched in these terms:--

"HONOURED SIR,--The man az gi'en me leave to lat yaw knaw my dear leady is going to Loondon
with her unkle Squaire Darnel.  Be not conzarned, honoured sir, vor I'se take it on mai laife
to let yaw knaw wheare we be zettled, if zobe I can vind where you loadge in Loondon.  The
man zays yaw may put it in the pooblic prints.  I houp the bareheir will be honest enuff to
deliver this scrowl; and that your honour will pardon Your umbil servant to command,      
DOROTHY COWSLIP."

"P. S.--Please my kaind sarvice to laayer Clarke.  Squire Darnel's man is very civil vor sartain;
but I'ave no thoughts on him I'll assure yaw. Marry hap, worse ware may have a better chap,
as the zaying goes."

Nothing could be more seasonable than the delivery of this billet, which he had no sooner perused
than his reflection returned, and he entered into a serious deliberation with his own heart.
He considered that Aurelia was by this time far beyond a possibility of being overtaken, and
that by a precipitate pursuit he should only expose his own infirmities. He confided in the
attachment of his mistress, and in the fidelity of her maid, who would find opportunities of
communicating her sentiments by means of this lacquey, of whom he perceived by the letter she
had already made a conquest.  He therefore resolved to bridle his impatience, to proceed leisurely
to London, and, instead of taking any rash step which might induce Anthony Darnel to remove
his niece from that city, remain in seeming quiet until she should be settled, and her guardian
returned to the country.  Aurelia had mentioned to him the name of Doctor Kawdle, and from
him he expected in due time to receive the most interesting information formerly tormented
with the pangs of despairing love, which had actually unsettled his understanding, he was now
happily convinced that he had inspired the tender breast of Aurelia with mutual affection;
and, though she was invidiously snatched from his embrace in the midst of such endearments
as had wound up his soul to ecstasy and transport, he did not doubt of being able to rescue
her from the power of an inhuman kinsman, whose guardianship would soon of course expire; and
in the meantime he rested with the most perfect dependence on her constancy and virtue.

As he next day crossed the country, ruminating on the disaster that had befallen his squire,
and could now compare circumstances coolly, he easily comprehended the whole scheme of that
adventure, which was no other than an artifice of Anthony Darnel and his emissaries to draw
him from the inn, where he proposed to execute his design upon the innocent Aurelia.  He took
it for granted that the uncle, having been made acquainted with his niece's elopement, had
followed her track by the help of such information as he received, from one stage to another;
and that, receiving more particulars at the White Hart touching Sir Launcelot, he had formed
the scheme in which Crabshaw was an involuntary instrument towards the seduction of his master.

Amusing himself with these and other cogitations, our hero in the afternoon reached the place
of his destination, and, entering the inn where Timothy had been left at sick quarters, chanced
to meet the apothecary retiring precipitately in a very unsavoury pickle from the chamber of
his patient.  When he inquired about the health of his squire, this retainer to medicine, wiping
himself all the while with a napkin, answered in manifest confusion, that he apprehended him
to be in a very dangerous way from an inflammation of the piamater, which had produced a most
furious delirium.  Then he proceeded to explain, in technical terms, the method of cure he
had followed; and concluded with telling him the poor squire's brain was so outrageously disordered,
that he had rejected all administration, and just thrown an urinal in his face.

The knight's humanity being alarmed at this intelligence, he resolved that Crabshaw should
have the benefit of further advice, and asked if there was not a physician in the place?  The
apothecary, after some interjections of hesitation, owned there was a doctor in the village,
an odd sort of a humourist; but he believed he had not much to do in the way of his profession,
and was not much used to the forms of prescription. He was counted a scholar, to be sure, but
as to his medical capacity--he would not take upon him to say.  "No matter," cried Sir Launcelot,
"he may strike out some lucky thought for the benefit of the patient, and I desire you will
call him instantly."

While the apothecary was absent on this service, our adventurer took it in his head to question
the landlord about the character of this physician, which had been so unfavourably represented,
and received the following information:--

"For my peart, measter, I knows nothing amiss of the doctor--he's a quiet sort of an inoffensive
man; uses my house sometimes, and pays for what he has, like the rest of my customers.  They
says he deals very little in physic stuff, but cures his patients with fasting and water-gruel,
whereby he can't expect the 'pothecary to be his friend.  You knows, master, one must live,
and let live, as the saying is.  I must say, he, for the value of three guineas, set up my
wife's constitution in such a manner, that I have saved within these two years, I believe,
forty pounds in 'pothecary's bills.  But what of that?  Every man must eat, thof at another's
expense; and I should be in a deadly hole myself if all my customers should take it in their
heads to drink nothing but water-gruel, because it is good for the constitution.  Thank God,
I have as good a constitution as e'er a man in England, but for all that, I and my whole family
bleed and purge, and take a diet-drink twice a year, by way of serving the 'pothecary, who
is a very honest man, and a very good neighbour."

Their conversation was interrupted by the return of the apothecary with the doctor, who had
very little of the faculty in his appearance.  He was dressed remarkably plain; seemed to be
turned of fifty; had a careless air, and a sarcastical turn in his countenance.  Before he
entered the sick man's chamber, he asked some questions concerning the disease; and when the
apothecary, pointing to his own head, said, "It lies all here," the doctor, turning to Sir
Launcelot, replied, "If that be all there's nothing in it."

Upon a more particular inquiry about the symptoms, he was told that the blood was seemingly
viscous, and salt upon the tongue; the urine remarkably acrosaline; and the faeces atrabilious
and foetid.  When the doctor said he would engage to find the same phenomena in every healthy
man of the three kingdoms, the apothecary added, that the patient was manifestly comatous,
and moreover afflicted with griping pains and borborygmata.  "A f--t for your borborygmata,"
cried the physician; "what has been done?"  To this question, he replied, that venesection
had been three times performed; that a vesicatory had been applied inter scapulas; that the
patient had taken occasionally of a cathartic apozem, and between whiles, alexipharmic boluses
and neutral draughts.--"Neutral, indeed," said the doctor; "so neutral, that I'll be crucified
if ever they declare either for the patient or the disease."  So saying, he brushed into Crabshaw's
chamber, followed by our adventurer, who was almost suffocated at his first entrance.  The
day was close; the window-shutters were fastened; a huge fire blazed in the chimney; thick
harateen curtains were close drawn round the bed, where the wretched squire lay extended under
an enormous load of blankets.  The nurse, who had all the exteriors of a bawd given to drink,
sat stewing in this apartment like a damned soul in some infernal bagnio; but rising when the
company entered, made her curtsies with great decorum.--"Well," said the doctor, "how does
your patient, nurse?"--"Blessed be God for it, I hope in a fair way.  To be sure his apozem
has had a blessed effect-- five-and-twenty stools since three o'clock in the morning.  But
then, a'would not suffer the blisters to be put upon his thighs.  Good lack! a'has been mortally
obstropolous, and out of his senses all this blessed day."--"You lie," cried the squire, "I
an't out of my seven senses, thof I'm half mad with vexation."

The doctor having withdrawn the curtain, the hapless squire appeared very pale and ghastly;
and having surveyed his master with a rueful aspect, addressed him in these words: "Sir Knight,
I beg a boon.  Be pleased to tie a stone about the neck of the apothecary, and a halter about
the neck of the nurse, and throw the one into the next river, and the other over the next tree,
and in so doing you will do a charitable deed to your fellow-creatures; for he and she do the
devil's work in partnership, and have sent many a score of their betters home to him before
their time." --"Oh, he begins to talk sensibly."--"Have a good heart," said the physician.
"What is your disorder?"--"Physic."--"What do you chiefly complain of?"--"The doctor."--"Does
your head ache?"--"Yea, with impertinence."  "Have you a pain in your back?"--"Yes, where the
blister lies."--"Are you sick at stomach?"--"Yes, with hunger."--"Do you feel any shiverings?"--"Always
at sight of the apothecary."--"Do you perceive any load in your bowels?"--"I would the apothecary's
conscience was as clear."--"Are you thirsty?"--"Not thirsty enough to drink barley-water."
--"Be pleased to look into his fauces," said the apothecary; "he has got a rough tongue, and
a very foul mouth, I'll assure you."--"I have known that the case with some limbs of the faculty,
where they stood more in need of correction than of physic.--Well, my honest friend, since
you have already undergone the proper purgations in due form, and say you have no other disease
than the doctor, we will set you on your legs again without further question.  Here, nurse,
open that window, and throw these phials into the street.  Now lower the curtain, without shutting
the casement, that the man may not be stifled in his own steam.  In the next place, take off
two-thirds of these coals, and one-third of these blankets.--How dost feel now, my heart?"
"I should feel heart-whole, if so be as yow would throw the noorse a'ter the bottles, and the
'pothecary a'ter the noorse, and oorder me a pound of chops for my dinner, for I be so hoongry,
I could eat a horse behind the saddle."

The apothecary, seeing what passed, retired of his own accord, holding up his hands in sign
of astonishment.  The nurse was dismissed in the same breath.  Crabshaw rose, dressed himself
without assistance, and made a hearty meal on the first eatable that presented itself to view.
The knight passed the evening with the physician, who, from his first appearance, concluded
he was mad; but, in the course of the conversation, found means to resign that opinion without
adopting any other in lieu of it, and parted with him under all the impatience of curiosity.
The knight, on his part, was very well entertained with the witty sarcasms and erudition of
the doctor, who appeared to be a sort of cynic philosopher tinctured with misanthropy, and
at open war with the whole body of apothecaries, whom however it was by no means his interest
to disoblige.

