As soon as she arrived, they placed that close to the body, and by the aid of medicines and
various other means, succeeded in restoring Iamo to all his former beauty and manliness. All
rejoiced in the happy termination of their troubles, and they had spent some time joyfully
together, when Iamo said, "Now I will divide the wampum;" and getting the belt which contained
it, he commenced with the eldest, giving it in equal proportions. But the youngest got the
most splendid and beautiful, as the bottom of the belt held the richest and rarest.

They were told that, since they had all once died, and were restored to life, they were no
longer mortals, but spirits, and they were assigned different stations in the invisible world.
Only Mudjikewis's place was, however, named. He was to direct the west wind, hence generally
called Kabeyun, the father of Manabozho, there to remain forever. They were commanded, as they
had it in their power, to do good to the inhabitants of the earth; and forgetting their sufferings
in procuring the wampum, to give all things with a liberal hand. And they were also commanded
that it should also be held by them sacred; those grains or shells of the pale hue to be emblematic
of peace, while those of the darker hue would lead to evil and to war.

The spirits, then, amid songs and shouts, took their flight to their respective abodes on high;
while Iamo, with his sister Iamoqua, descended into the depths below.

      [63] War-cry.

      [64] A gigantic she bear wearing the sacred necklace of wampum.

      [65] My grandfather.

THE RED SWAN.

Three brothers were left destitute, by the death of their parents, at an early age. The eldest
was not yet able to provide fully for their support, but did all he could in hunting, and with
his aid, and the stock of provisions left by their father, they were preserved and kept alive,
rather, it seems, by miraculous interposition, than the adequacy of their own exertions. For
the father had been a hermit,[66] having removed far away from the body of the tribe, so that
when he and his wife died they left their children without neighbors and friends, and the lads
had no idea that there was a human being near them. They did not even know who their parents
had been, for the eldest was too young, at the time of their death, to remember it. Forlorn
as they were, they did not, however, give up to despondency, but made use of every exertion
they could, and in process of time, learned the art of hunting and killing animals. The eldest
soon became an expert hunter, and was very successful in procuring food. He was noted for his
skill in killing buffalo, elk, and moose, and he instructed his brothers in the arts of the
forest as soon as they became old enough to follow him. After they had become able to hunt
and take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them, and go in search of habitations,
promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. In this project he was overruled
by his brothers, who said they could not part with him. Maujeekewis, the second eldest, was
loud in his disapproval, saying, "What will you do with those you propose to get--we have lived
so long without them, and we can still do without them." His words prevailed, and the three
brothers continued together for a time.

One day they agreed to kill each, a male of those kind of animals each was most expert in hunting,
for the purpose of making quivers from their skins. They did so, and immediately commenced
making arrows to fill their quivers, that they might be prepared for any emergency. Soon after,
they hunted on a wager, to see who should come in first with game, and prepare it so as to
regale the others. They were to shoot no other animal, but such as each was in the habit of
killing. They set out different ways; Odjibwa, the youngest, had not gone far before he saw
a bear, an animal he was not to kill, by the agreement. He followed him close, and drove an
arrow through him, which brought him to the ground. Although contrary to the bet, he immediately
commenced skinning him, when suddenly something red tinged all the air around him. He rubbed
his eyes, thinking he was perhaps deceived, but without effect, for the red hue continued.
At length he heard a strange noise at a distance. It first appeared like a human voice, but
after following the sound for some distance, he reached the shores of a lake, and soon saw
the object he was looking for. At a distance out in the lake, sat a most beautiful Red Swan,
whose plumage glittered in the sun, and who would now and then make the same noise he had heard.
He was within long bow shot, and pulling the arrow from the bow-string up to his ear, took
deliberate aim and shot. The arrow took no effect; and he shot and shot again till his quiver
was empty. Still the swan remained, moving around and around, stretching its long neck and
dipping its bill into the water, as if heedless of the arrows shot at it. Odjibwa ran home,
and got all his own and his brothers' arrows, and shot them all away. He then stood and gazed
at the beautiful bird. While standing, he remembered his brothers' saying that in their deceased
father's medicine sack were three magic arrows. Off he started, his anxiety to kill the swan
overcoming all scruples. At any other time, he would have deemed it sacrilege to open his father's
medicine sack, but now he hastily seized the three arrows and ran back, leaving the other contents
of the sack scattered over the lodge. The swan was still there. He shot the first arrow with
great precision, and came very near to it. The second came still closer; as he took the last
arrow, he felt his arm firmer, and drawing it up with vigor, saw it pass through the neck of
the swan a little above the breast. Still it did not prevent the bird from flying off, which
it did, however, at first slowly, flapping its wings and rising gradually into the air, and
then flying off toward the sinking of the sun.[67] Odjibwa was disappointed; he knew that his
brothers would be displeased with him; he rushed into the water and rescued the two magic arrows,
the third was carried off by the swan; but he thought that it could not fly very far with it,
and let the consequences be what they might, he was bent on following it.

Off he started on the run; he was noted for speed, for he would shoot an arrow, and then run
so fast that the arrow always fell behind him. I can run fast, he thought, and I can get up
with the swan some time or other. He thus ran over hills and prairies, toward the west, till
near night, and was only going to take one more run, and then seek a place to sleep for the
night, when suddenly he heard noises at a distance, which he knew were from people; for some
were cutting trees, and the strokes of their axes echoed through the woods. When he emerged
from the forest, the sun was just falling below the horizon, and he felt pleased to find a
place to sleep in, and get something to eat, as he had left home without a mouthful. All these
circumstances could not damp his ardor for the accomplishment of his object, and he felt that
if he only persevered, he would succeed. At a distance, on a rising piece of ground, he could
see an extensive town. He went toward it, but soon heard the watchman, Mudjee-Kokokoho, who
was placed on some height to overlook the place, and give notice of the approach of friends
or foes--crying out, "We are visited;" and a loud holla indicated that they all heard it. The
young man advanced, and was pointed by the watchman to the lodge of the chief, "It is there
you must go in," he said, and left him. "Come in, come in," said the chief, "take a seat there,"
pointing to the side where his daughter sat. "It is there you must sit." Soon they gave him
something to eat, and very few questions were asked him, being a stranger. It was only when
he spoke, that the others answered him. "Daughter," said the chief, after dark, "take our son-in-law's
moccasins, and see if they be torn; if so, mend them for him, and bring in his bundle." The
young man thought it strange that he should be so warmly received, and married instantly, without
his wishing it, although the young girl was pretty. It was some time before she would take
his moccasins, which he had taken off. It displeased him to see her so reluctant to do so,
and when she did reach them, he snatched them out of her hand and hung them up himself. He
laid down and thought of the swan, and made up his mind to be off by dawn. He awoke early,
and spoke to the young woman, but she gave no answer. He slightly touched her. "What do you
want?" she said, and turned her back toward him. "Tell me," he said, "what time the swan passed.
I am following it, and come out and point the direction." "Do you think you can catch up to
it?" she said. "Yes," he answered. "Naubesah" (foolishness), she said. She, however, went out
and pointed in the direction he should go. The young man went slowly till the sun arose, when
he commenced travelling at his accustomed speed. He passed the day in running, and when night
came, he was unexpectedly pleased to find himself near another town; and when at a distance,
he heard the watchman crying out, "We are visited;" and soon the men of the village stood out
to see the stranger. He was again told to enter the lodge of the chief, and his reception was,
in every respect, the same as he met the previous night; only that the young woman was more
beautiful, and received him very kindly, but although urged to stay, his mind was fixed on
the object of his journey. Before daylight he asked the young woman what time the Red Swan
passed, and to point out the way. She did so, and said it passed yesterday when the sun was
between midday and pungishemoo--its falling place. He again set out rather slowly, but when
the sun had arisen he tried his speed by shooting an arrow ahead, and running after it; but
it fell behind him. Nothing remarkable happened in the course of the day, and he went on leisurely.
Toward night, he came to the lodge of an old man. Some time after dark he saw a light emitted
from a small low lodge. He went up to it very slyly, and peeping through the door, saw an old
man alone, warming his back before the fire, with his head down on his breast. He thought the
old man did not know that he was standing near the door, but in this he was disappointed; for
so soon as he looked in, "Walk in, Nosis,"[68] he said, "take a seat opposite to me, and take
off your things and dry them, for you must be fatigued; and I will prepare you something to
eat." Odjibwa did as he was requested. The old man, whom he perceived to be a magician, then
said: "My kettle with water stands near the fire;" and immediately a small earthen or a kind
of metallic pot with legs appeared by the fire. He then took one grain of corn, also one whortleberry,
and put them in the pot. As the young man was very hungry, he thought that his chance for a
supper was but small. Not a word or a look, however, revealed his feelings. The pot soon boiled,
when the old man spoke, commanding it to stand some distance from the fire; "Nosis," said he,
"feed yourself," and he handed him a dish and ladle made out of the same metal as the pot.
The young man helped himself to all that was in the pot; he felt ashamed to think of his having
done so, but before he could speak, the old man said, "Nosis, eat, eat;" and soon after he
again said, "Help yourself from the pot." Odjibwa was surprised on looking into it to see it
full; he kept on taking all out, and as soon as it was done, it was again filled, till he had
amply satisfied his hunger. The magician then spoke, and the pot occupied its accustomed place
in one part of the lodge. The young man then leisurely reclined back, and listened to the predictions
of his entertainer, who told him to keep on, and he would obtain his object. "To tell you more,"
said he, "I am not permitted; but go on as you have commenced, and you will not be disappointed;
to-morrow you will again reach one of my fellow old men; but the one you will see after him
will tell you all, and the manner in which you will proceed to accomplish your journey. Often
has this Red Swan passed, and those who have followed it have never returned: but you must
be firm in your resolution, and be prepared for all events." "So will it be," answered Odjibwa,
and they both laid down to sleep. Early in the morning, the old man had his magic kettle prepared,
so that his guest should eat before leaving. When leaving, the old man gave him his parting advice.

Odjibwa set out in better spirits than he had done since leaving home. Night again found him
in company with an old man, who received him kindly, and directed him on his way in the morning.
He travelled with a light heart, expecting to meet the one who was to give him directions how
to proceed to get the Red Swan. Toward nightfall, he reached the third old man's lodge. Before
coming to the door, he heard him saying, "Nosis, come in," and going in immediately, he felt
quite at home. The old man prepared him something to eat, acting as the other magicians had
done, and his kettle was of the same dimensions and material. The old man waited till he had
done eating, when he commenced addressing him. "Young man, the errand you are on is very difficult.
Numbers of young men have passed with the same purpose, but never returned. Be careful, and
if your guardian spirits are powerful, you may succeed. This Red Swan you are following, is
the daughter of a magician, who has plenty of everything, but he values his daughter but little
less than wampum. He wore a cap of wampum, which was attached to his scalp; but powerful Indians--warriors
of a distant chief, came and told him, that their chief's daughter was on the brink of the
grave, and she herself requested his scalp of wampum to effect a cure. 'If I can only see it,
I will recover,' she said, and it was for this reason they came, and after long urging the
magician, he at last consented to part with it, only from the idea of restoring the young woman
to health; although when he took it off, it left his head bare and bloody. Several years have
passed since, and it has not healed. The warriors' coming for it, was only a cheat, and they
now are constantly making sport of it, dancing it about from village to village; and on every
insult it receives, the old man groans from pain. Those Indians are too powerful for the magician,
and numbers have sacrificed themselves to recover it for him, but without success. The Red
Swan has enticed many a young man, as she has done you, in order to get them to procure it,
and whoever is the fortunate one that succeeds, will receive the Red Swan as his reward. In
the morning you will proceed on your way, and toward evening you will come to the magician's
lodge, but before you enter you will hear his groans; he will immediately ask you in, and you
will see no one but himself; he will make inquiries of you, as regards your dreams, and the
powers of your guardian spirits; he will then ask you to attempt the recovery of his scalp;
he will show you the direction, and if you feel inclined, as I dare say you do, go forward,
my son, with a strong heart, persevere, and I have a presentiment you will succeed." The young
man answered, "I will try." Early next morning, after having eaten from the magic kettle, he
started off on his journey. Toward evening he came to the lodge as he was told, and soon heard
the groans of the magician. "Come in," he said, even before the young man reached the door.
On entering he saw his head all bloody, and he was groaning most terribly. "Sit down, sit down,"
he said, "while I prepare you something to eat," at the same time doing as the other magicians
had done, in preparing food--"You see," he said, "how poor I am; I have to attend to all my
wants." He said this to conceal the fact that the Red Swan was there, but Odjibwa perceived
that the lodge was partitioned, and he heard a rustling noise, now and then, in that quarter,
which satisfied him that it was occupied. After having taken his leggings and moccasins off,
and eaten, the old magician commenced telling him how he had lost his scalp--the insults it
was receiving--the pain he was suffering in consequence--his wishes to regain it--the unsuccessful
attempts that had already been made, and the numbers and power of those who detained it; stated
the best and most probable way of getting it; touching the young man on his pride and ambition,
by the proposed adventure, and last, he spoke of such things as would make an Indian rich.
He would interrupt his discourse by now and then groaning, and saying, "Oh, how shamefully
they are treating it." Odjibwa listened with solemn attention. The old man then asked him about
his dreams--his dreams (or as he saw when asleep[69]) at the particular time he had fasted
and blackened his face to procure guardian spirits.

The young man then told him one dream; the magician groaned; "No, that is not it," he said.
The young man told him another. He groaned again; "That is not it," he said. The young man
told him of two or three others. The magician groaned at each recital, and said, rather peevishly,
"No, those are not them." The young man then thought to himself, Who are you? you may groan
as much as you please; I am inclined not to tell you any more dreams. The magician then spoke
in rather a supplicating tone. "Have you no more dreams of another kind?" "Yes," said the young
man, and told him one. "That is it, that is it," he cried; "you will cause me to live. That
was what I was wishing you to say;" and he rejoiced greatly. "Will you then go and see if you
cannot procure my scalp?" "Yes," said the young man, "I will go; and the day after to-morrow,[70]
when you hear the cries of the Kakak,[71] you will know, by this sign, that I am successful,
and you must prepare your head, and lean it out through the door, so that the moment I arrive,
I may place your scalp on." "Yes, yes," said the magician; "as you say, it will be done." Early
next morning, he set out on his perilous adventure, and about the time that the sun hangs toward
home, (afternoon) he heard the shouts of a great many people. He was in a wood at the time,
and saw, as he thought, only a few men; but the further he went, the more numerous they appeared.
On emerging into a plain, their heads appeared like the hanging leaves for number. In the centre
he perceived a post, and something waving on it, which was the scalp. Now and then the air
was rent with the Sau-sau-quan, for they were dancing the war dance around it. Before he could
be perceived, he turned himself into a No-noskau-see (hummingbird), and flew toward the scalp.

As he passed some of those who were standing by, he flew close to their ears, making the humming
noise which this bird does when it flies. They jumped on one side, and asked each other what
it could be. By this time he had nearly reached the scalp, but fearing he should be perceived
while untying it, he changed himself into a Me-sau-be-wau-aun (the down of anything that floats
lightly on the air), and then floated slowly and lightly on to the scalp. He untied it, and
moved off slowly, as the weight was almost too great. It was as much as he could do to keep
it up, and prevent the Indians from snatching it away. The moment they saw it was moving, they
filled the air with their cries of "It is taken from us; it is taken from us." He continued
moving a few feet above them; the rush and hum of the people was like the dead beating surges
after a storm. He soon gained on them, and they gave up the pursuit. After going a little further
he changed himself into a Kakak, and flew off with his prize, making that peculiar noise which
this bird makes.

In the mean time, the magician had followed his instructions, placing his head outside of the
lodge, as soon as he heard the cry of the Kakak, and soon after he heard the rustling of its
wings. In a moment Odjibwa stood before him. He immediately gave the magician a severe blow
on the head with the wampum scalp: his limbs extended and quivered in agony from the effects
of the blow: the scalp adhered, and the young man walked in and sat down, feeling perfectly
at home. The magician was so long in recovering from the stunning blow, that the young man
feared he had killed him. He was however pleased to see him show signs of life; he first commenced
moving, and soon sat up. But how surprised was Odjibwa to see, not an aged man, far in years
and decrepitude, but one of the handsomest young men he ever saw stand up before him.

"Thank you, my friend," he said; "you see that your kindness and bravery have restored me to
my former shape. It was so ordained, and you have now accomplished the victory." The young
magician urged the stay of his deliverer for a few days; and they soon formed a warm attachment
for each other. The magician never alluded to the Red Swan in their conversations.

At last, the day arrived when Odjibwa made preparations to return. The young magician amply
repaid him for his kindness and bravery, by various kinds of wampum, robes, and all such things
as he had need of to make him an influential man. But though the young man's curiosity was
at its height about the Red Swan, he controlled his feelings, and never so much as even hinted
of her; feeling that he would surrender a point of propriety in so doing; while the one he
had rendered such service to, whose hospitality he was now enjoying, and who had richly rewarded
him, had never so much as even mentioned anything about her, but studiously concealed her.

Odjibwa's pack for travelling was ready, and he was taking his farewell smoke, when the young
magician thus addressed him: "Friend, you know for what cause you came thus far. You have accomplished
your object, and conferred a lasting obligation on me. Your perseverance shall not go unrewarded;
and if you undertake other things with the same spirit you have this, you will never fail to
accomplish them. My duty renders it necessary for me to remain where I am, although I should
feel happy to go with you. I have given you all you will need as long as you live; but I see
you feel backward to speak about the Red Swan. I vowed that whoever procured me my scalp, should
be rewarded by possessing the Red Swan." He then spoke, and knocked on the partition. The door
immediately opened, and the Red Swan met his eager gaze. She was a most beautiful female, and
as she stood majestically before him, it would be impossible to describe her charms, for she
looked as if she did not belong to earth. "Take her," the young magician said; "she is my sister,
treat her well; she is worthy of you, and what you have done for me merits more. She is ready
to go with you to your kindred and friends, and has been so ever since your arrival, and my
good wishes go with you both." She then looked very kindly on her husband, who now bid farewell
to his friend indeed, and accompanied by the object of his wishes, he commenced retracing his
footsteps.

They travelled slowly, and after two or three days reached the lodge of the third old man,
who had fed him from his small magic pot. He was very kind, and said, "You see what your perseverance
has procured you; do so always and you will succeed in all things you undertake."

On the following morning when they were going to start, he pulled from the side of the lodge
a bag, which he presented to the young man, saying, "Nosis, I give you this; it contains a
present for you; and I hope you will live happily till old age." They then bid farewell to
him and proceeded on.

They soon reached the second old man's lodge. Their reception there was the same as at the
first; he also gave them a present, with the old man's wishes that they would be happy. They
went on and reached the first town, which the young man had passed in his pursuit. The watchman
gave notice, and he was shown into the chief's lodge. "Sit down there, son-in-law," said the
chief, pointing to a place near his daughter. "And you also," he said to the Red Swan.

The young woman of the lodge was busy in making something, but she tried to show her indifference
about what was taking place, for she did not even raise her head to see who was come. Soon
the chief said, "Let some one bring in the bundle of our son-in-law." When it was brought in,
the young man opened one of the bags, which he had received from one of the old men; it contained
wampum, robes, and various other articles; he presented them to his father-in-law, and all
expressed their surprise at the value and richness of the gift. The chief's daughter then only
stole a glance at the present, then at Odjibwa and his beautiful wife; she stopped working,
and remained silent and thoughtful all the evening. They conversed about his adventures; after
this the chief told him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning; the
young man said "Yes." The chief then spoke out, saying, "Daughter, be ready to go with him
in the morning."

There was a Maujeekewis in the lodge, who thought to have got the young woman to wife; he jumped
up, saying, "Who is he (meaning the young man), that he should take her for a few presents.
I will kill him," and he raised a knife which he had in his hand. But he only waited till some
one held him back, and then sat down, for he was too great a coward to do as he had threatened.
Early they took their departure, amid the greetings of their new friends, and toward evening
reached the other town. The watchman gave the signal, and numbers of men, women, and children
stood out to see them. They were again shown into the chief's lodge, who welcomed them by saying,
"Son-in-law, you are welcome," and requested him to take a seat by his daughter; and the two
women did the same.

After the usual formalities of smoking and eating, the chief requested the young man to relate
his travels in the hearing of all the inmates of the lodge, and those who came to see. They
looked with admiration and astonishment at the Red Swan, for she was so beautiful. Odjibwa
gave them his whole history. The chief then told him that his brothers had been to their town
in search of him, but had returned, and given up all hopes of ever seeing him again. He concluded
by saying that since he had been so fortunate and so manly, he should take his daughter with
him; "for although your brothers," said he, "were here, they were too timid to enter any of
our lodges, and merely inquired for you and returned. You will take my daughter, treat her
well, and that will bind us more closely together."

It is always the case in towns, that some one in it is foolish or clownish. It happened to
be so here; for a Maujeekewis was in the lodge; and after the young man had given his father-in-law
presents, as he did to the first, this Maujeekewis jumped up in a passion, saying, "Who is
this stranger, that he should have her? I want her myself." The chief told him to be quiet,
and not to disturb or quarrel with one who was enjoying their hospitality. "No, no," he boisterously
cried, and made an attempt to strike the stranger. Odjibwa was above fearing his threats, and
paid no attention to him. He cried the louder, "I will have her; I will have her." In an instant
he was laid flat on the ground from a blow of a war club given by the chief. After he came
to himself, the chief upbraided him for his foolishness, and told him to go out and tell stories
to the old women.

Their arrangements were then made, and the stranger invited a number of families to go and
visit their hunting grounds, as there was plenty of game. They consented, and in the morning
a large party were assembled to accompany the young man; and the chief with a large party of
warriors escorted them a long distance. When ready to return the chief made a speech, and invoked
the blessing of the great good Spirit on his son-in-law and party.

After a number of days' travel, Odjibwa and his party came in sight of his home. The party
rested while he went alone in advance to see his brothers. When he entered the lodge he found
it all dirty and covered with ashes: on one side was his eldest brother, with his face blackened,
and sitting amid ashes, crying aloud. On the other side was Maujeekewis, his other brother;
his face was also blackened, but his head was covered with feathers and swan's down; he looked
so odd, that the young man could not keep from laughing, for he appeared and pretended to be
so absorbed with grief that he did not notice his brother's arrival. The eldest jumped up and
shook hands with him, and kissed him, and felt very happy to see him again.

Odjibwa, after seeing all things put to rights, told them that he had brought each of them
a wife. When Maujeekewis heard about the wife, he jumped up and said, "Why is it just now that
you have come?" and made for the door and peeped out to see the woman. He then commenced jumping
and laughing, saying, "Women! women!" That was the only reception he gave his brother. Odjibwa
then told them to wash themselves and prepare, for he would go and fetch them in. Maujeekewis
jumped and washed himself, but would every now and then go and peep out to see the women. When
they came near, he said, "I will have this one, and that one;" he did not exactly know which--he
would go and sit down for an instant, and then go and peep and laugh; he acted like a madman.

As soon as order was restored, and all seated, Odjibwa presented one of the women to his eldest
brother, saying, "These women were given to me; I now give one to each; I intended so from
the first." Maujeekewis spoke, and said, "I think three wives would have been enough for you."
The young man led one to Maujeekewis, saying, "My brother, here is one for you, and live happily."
Maujeekewis hung down his head as if he was ashamed, but would every now and then steal a glance
at his wife, and also at the other women. By and by he turned toward his wife, and acted as
if he had been married for years. "Wife," he said, "I will go and hunt," and off he started.

All lived peaceably for some time, and their town prospered, the inhabitants increased, and
everything was abundant among them. One day dissatisfaction was manifested in the conduct of
the two elder brothers, on account of Odjibwa's having taken their deceased father's magic
arrows: they upbraided and urged him to procure others if he could. Their object was to get
him away, so that one of them might afterward get his wife. One day, after listening to them,
he told them he would go. Maujeekewis and himself went together into a sweating lodge to purify
themselves. Even there, although it was held sacred, Maujeekewis upbraided him for the arrows.
He told him again he would go; and next day, true to his word, he left them. After travelling
a long way he came to an opening in the earth, and descending, it led him to the abode of departed
spirits. The country appeared beautiful, the extent of it was lost in the distance: he saw
animals of various kinds in abundance. The first he came near to were buffalo; his surprise
was great when these animals addressed him as human beings. They asked him what he came for,
how he descended, why he was so bold as to visit the abode of the dead. He told them he was
in search of magic arrows to appease his brothers. "Very well," said the leader of the buffaloes,
whose whole form was nothing but bone. "Yes, we know it," and he and his followers moved off
a little space as if they were afraid of him. "You have come," resumed the Buffalo Spirit,
"to a place where a living man has never before been. You will return immediately to your tribe,
for your brothers are trying to dishonor your wife; and you will live to a very old age, and
live and die happily; you can go no further in these abodes of ours." Odjibwa looked, as he
thought to the west, and saw a bright light, as if the sun was shining in its splendor, but
he saw no sun. "What light is that I see yonder?" he asked. The all-boned buffalo answered,
"It is the place where those who were good dwell." "And that dark cloud?" Odjibwa again asked.
"Mud-jee-izzhi-wabezewin," (wickedness) answered the buffalo. He asked no more questions, and,
with the aid of his guardian spirits, again stood on this earth and saw the sun giving light
as usual, and breathed the pure air. All else he saw in the abodes of the dead, and his travels
and actions previous to his return, are unknown. After wandering a long time in quest of information
to make his people happy, he one evening drew near to his village or town; passing all the
other lodges and coming to his own, he heard his brothers at high words with each other; they
were quarrelling for the possession of his wife. She had, however, remained constant, and mourned
the absence and probable loss of her husband; but she had mourned him with the dignity of virtue.
The noble youth listened till he was satisfied of the base principles of his brothers. He then
entered the lodge, with the stern air and conscious dignity of a brave and honest man. He spoke
not a word, but placing the magic arrows to his bow, drew them to their length and laid the
brothers dead at his feet. Thus ended the contest between the hermit's sons, and a firm and
happy union was consummated between Odjibwa, or him of the primitive or intonated voice, and
the Red Swan.

      [66] Pai-gwud-aw-diz-zid.

      [67] Pungish-e-moo, falling or sinking to a position of repose.

      [68] My grandchild.

      [69] Enaw-baundum.

      [70] The Indian expression is, Awuss-Waubung--the day beyond
      to-morrow.

      [71] A species of hawk.

TAU-WAU-CHEE-HEZKAW,

OR

THE WHITE FEATHER.

A DACOTAH LEGEND.

There was an old man living in the centre of a forest, with his grandson, whom he had taken
when quite an infant. The child had no parents, brothers, or sisters; they had all been destroyed
by six large giants, and he had been informed that he had no other relative living besides
his grandfather. The band to whom he belonged had put up their children on a wager in a race
against those of the giants, and had thus lost them. There was an old tradition in the band,
that it would produce a great man, who would wear a white feather, and who would astonish every
one with his skill and feats of bravery.

The grandfather, as soon as the child could play about, gave him a bow and arrows to amuse
himself. He went into the edge of the woods one day, and saw a rabbit; but not knowing what
it was, he ran home and described it to his grandfather. He told him what it was, that its
flesh was good to eat, and that if he would shoot one of his arrows into its body, he would
kill it. He did so, and brought the little animal home, which he asked his grandfather to boil,
that they might feast on it. He humored the boy in this, and encouraged him to go on in acquiring
the knowledge of hunting, until he could kill deer and larger animals; and he became, as he
grew up, an expert hunter. As they lived alone, and away from other Indians, his curiosity
was excited to know what was passing in the world. One day he came to the edge of a prairie,
where he saw ashes like those at his grandfather's lodge, and lodge-poles left standing. He
returned and inquired whether his grandfather put up the poles and made the fire. He was answered
no, nor did he believe that he had seen anything of the kind. It was all imagination.

Another day he went out to see what there was curious; and, on entering the woods, he heard
a voice calling out to him, "Come here, you destined wearer of the White Feather. You do not
yet wear it, but you are worthy of it. Return home and take a short nap. You will dream of
hearing a voice, which will tell you to rise and smoke. You will see in your dream a pipe,
smoking sack, and a large white feather. When you awake you will find these articles. Put the
feather on your head, and you will become a great hunter, a great warrior, and a great man,
capable of doing anything. As a proof that you will become a great hunter, when you smoke,
the smoke will turn into pigeons." The voice then informed him who he was, and disclosed the
true character of his grandfather, who had imposed upon him. The voice-spirit then gave him
a vine, and told him he was of an age to revenge the injuries of his relations. "When you meet
your enemy," continued the spirit, "you will run a race with him. He will not see the vine,
because it is enchanted. While you are running, you will throw it over his head and entangle
him, so that you will win the race."

Long ere this speech was ended, he had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded,
and was astonished to behold a man, for as yet he had never seen any man besides his grandfather,
whose object it was to keep him in ignorance. But the circumstance that gave him the most surprise
was, that this man, who had the looks of great age, was composed of wood from his breast downward,
and appeared to be fixed in the earth.

He returned home, slept, heard the voice, awoke, and found the promised articles. His grandfather
was greatly surprised to find him with a white feather on his forehead, and to see flocks of
pigeons flying out of his lodge. He then recollected what had been predicted, and began to
weep at the prospect of losing his charge.

Invested with these honors, the young man departed the next morning to seek his enemies and
gratify his revenge. The giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. He travelled
on till he came to this lodge, where he found that his coming had been made known by the little
spirits who carry the news. The giants came out, and gave a cry of joy as they saw him coming.
When he approached nearer, they began to make sport of him, saying, "Here comes the little
man with the white feather, who is to achieve such wonders." They, however, spoke very fair
to him when he came up, saying he was a brave man, and would do brave things. This they said
to encourage, and the more surely to deceive him. He, however, understood the object.

He went fearlessly up to the lodge. They told him to commence the race with the smallest of
their number. The point to which they were to run was a peeled tree towards the rising sun,
and then back to the starting-place, which was marked by a Chaunkahpee, or war-club, made of
iron. This club was the stake, and whoever won it was to use it in beating the other's brains
out. If he beat the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on until they had all measured
speed with him. He won the first race by a dexterous use of the vine, and immediately despatched
his competitor, and cut off his head. Next morning he ran with the second giant, whom he also
outran, killed, and decapitated. He proceeded in this way for five successive mornings, always
conquering by the use of his vine, cutting off the heads of the vanquished. The survivor acknowledged
his power, but prepared secretly to deceive him. He wished him to leave the heads he had cut
off, as he believed he could again reunite them with the bodies, by means of one of their medicines.
White Feather insisted, however, in carrying all the heads to his grandfather. One more contest
was to be tried, which would decide the victory; but, before going to the giant's lodge on
the sixth morning, he met his old counsellor in the woods, who was stationary. He told him
that he was about to be deceived. That he had never known any other sex but his own; but that,
as he went on his way to the lodge, he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world. He
must pay no attention to her, but, on meeting her, he must wish himself changed into a male
elk. The transformation would take place immediately, when he must go to feeding and not regard
her.

He proceeded towards the lodge, met the female, and became an elk. She reproached him for having
turned himself into an elk on seeing her; said she had travelled a great distance for the purpose
of seeing him, and becoming his wife. Now this woman was the sixth giant, who had assumed this
disguise; but Tau-Wau-Chee-Hezkaw remained in ignorance of it. Her reproaches and her beauty
affected him so much, that he wished himself a man again, and he at once resumed his natural
shape. They sat down together, and he began to caress her, and make love to her. He finally
ventured to lay his head on her lap, and went to sleep. She pushed his head aside at first,
for the purpose of trying if he was really asleep; and when she was satisfied he was, she took
her axe and broke his back. She then assumed her natural shape, which was in the form of the
sixth giant, and afterwards changed him into a dog, in which degraded form he followed his
enemy to the lodge. He took the white feather from his brow, and wore it as a trophy on his
own head.

There was an Indian village at some distance, in which there lived two girls, who were rival
sisters, the daughters of a chief. They were fasting to acquire power for the purpose of enticing
the wearer of the white feather to visit their village. They each secretly hoped to engage
his affections. Each one built herself a lodge at a short distance from the village. The giant
knowing this, and having now obtained the valued plume, went immediately to visit them. As
he approached, the girls saw and recognized the feather. The eldest sister prepared her lodge
with great care and parade, so as to attract the eye. The younger, supposing that he was a
man of sense, and would not be enticed by mere parade, touched nothing in her lodge, but left
it as it ordinarily was. The eldest went out to meet him, and invited him in. He accepted her
invitation, and made her his wife. The younger invited the enchanted dog into her lodge, and
made him a good bed, and treated him with as much attention as if he were her husband.

The giant, supposing that whoever possessed the white feather possessed also all its virtues,
went out upon the prairie to hunt, but returned unsuccessful. The dog went out the same day
a hunting upon the banks of a river. He drew a stone out of the water, which immediately became
a beaver. The next day the giant followed the dog, and hiding behind a tree, saw the manner
in which the dog went into the river and drew out a stone, which at once turned into a beaver.
As soon as the dog left the place, the giant went to the river, and observing the same manner,
drew out a stone, and had the satisfaction of seeing it transformed into a beaver. Tying it
to his belt, he carried it home, and, as is customary, threw it down at the door of the lodge
before he entered. After being seated a short time, he told his wife to bring in his belt or
hunting girdle. She did so, and returned with it, with nothing tied to it but a stone.

The next day, the dog, finding his method of catching beavers had been discovered, went to
a wood at some distance, and broke off a charred limb from a burned tree, which instantly became
a bear. The giant, who had again watched him, did the same, and carried a bear home; but his
wife, when she came to go out for it, found nothing but a black stick tied to his belt.

The giant's wife determined she would go to her father, and tell him what a valuable husband
she had, who furnished her lodge with abundance. She set out while her husband went to hunt.
As soon as they had departed, the dog made signs to his mistress to sweat him after the manner
of the Indians. She accordingly made a lodge just large enough for him to creep in. She then
put in heated stones, and poured on water. After this had been continued the usual time, he
came out a very handsome young man, but had not the power of speech.

Meantime, the elder daughter had reached her father's, and told him of the manner in which
her sister supported a dog, treating him as her husband, and of the singular skill this animal
had in hunting. The old man, suspecting there was some magic in it, sent a deputation of young
men and women to ask her to come to him, and bring her dog along. When this deputation arrived,
they were surprised to find, in the place of the dog, so fine a young man. They both accompanied
the messengers to the father, who was no less astonished. He assembled all the old and wise
men of the nation to see the exploits which, it was reported, the young man could perform.
The giant was among the number. He took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians,
to see if anything would happen when they smoked. It was passed around to the dog, who made
a sign to hand it to the giant first, which was done, but nothing affected. He then took it
himself. He made a sign to them to put the white feather upon his head. This was done, and
immediately he regained his speech. He then commenced smoking, and behold! immense flocks of
white and blue pigeons rushed from the smoke.

The chief demanded of him his history, which he faithfully recounted. When it was finished,
the chief ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle
of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs. This sentence was executed.

The chief then ordered, on the request of the White Feather, that all the young men should
employ themselves four days in making arrows. He also asked for a buffalo robe. This robe he
cut into thin shreds, and sowed in the prairie. At the end of the four days he invited them
to gather together all their arrows, and accompany him to a buffalo hunt. They found that these
shreds of skin had grown into a very large herd of buffalo. They killed as many as they pleased,
and enjoyed a grand festival, in honor of his triumph over the giants.

Having accomplished their labor, the White Feather got his wife to ask her father's permission
to go with him on a visit to his grandfather. He replied to this solicitation, that a woman
must follow her husband into whatever quarter of the world he may choose to go.

The young men then placed the white feather in his frontlet, and, taking his war-club in his
hand, led the way into the forest, followed by his faithful wife.

PAUGUK,

AND

THE MYTHOLOGICAL INTERPRETATION OF HIAWATHA.

In a class of languages, where the personification of ideas, or sentiments, frequently compensates
for the paucity of expression, it could hardly be expected that death should be omitted. The
soul, or spirit, deemed to be an invisible essence, is denominated Ochichaug; this is the term
translators employ for the Holy Ghost. There is believed to be the spirit of a vital and personal
animus, distinct from this, to which they apply the term Jeebi or Ghost. Death, or the mythos
of the condition of the human frame, deprived of even the semblance of blood, and muscle, and
life, is represented by the word Pauguk. Pauguk is a horrible phantom of human bones, without
muscular tissue or voice, the appearance of which presages speedy dissolution. Of all the myths
of the Indians, this is the most gloomy and fearful.

In strict accordance, however, with aboriginal tastes and notions, Pauguk is represented as
a hunter. He is armed with a bow and arrows, or a pug-gamagan, or war-club. Instead of objects
of the chase, men, women, and children are substituted as the objects of pursuit. To see him
is indicative of death. Some accounts represent him as covered with a thin transparent skin,
with the sockets of his eyes filled with balls of fire.

Pauguk never speaks. Unlike the Jeebi or ghost, his limbs never assume the rotundity of life.
Neither is he confounded in form with the numerous class of Monedoes, or of demons. He does
not possess the power of metamorphosis, or of transforming himself into the shapes of animals.
Unvaried in repulsiveness, he is ever an object of fear; but unlike every other kind or class
of creation of the Indian mind, Pauguk never disguises himself, or affects the cunning of concealment--never
effects to be what he is not.

Manabozho alone had power to invoke him unharmed. When he had expended all his arts to overcome
Paup-Puk-Keewiss, who could at will transform himself, directly or indirectly, into any class
or species of the animal creation, going often, as he did, as a jeebi, from one carcass into
another, at last, at the final conflict at the rock, he dispatched him with the real power
of death, after summoning the elements of thunder and lightning to his aid. And when thus deprived
of all sublunary power, the enraged Great Hare, Manito (such seems the meaning of Manabozho),
changed the dead carcass of his enemy into the great caniew, or war eagle. Nothing had given
Manabozho half the trouble and vexation of the flighty, defying, changeable and mischievous
Paup-Puk-Keewiss, who eluded him by jumping from one end of the continent to the other. He
had killed the great power of evil in the prince of serpents, who had destroyed Chebizbos his
grandson--he had survived the flood produced by the great Serpent, and overcome, in combat,
the mysterious power held by the Pearl, or sea shell Feather, and the Mishemokwa, or great
Bear with the wampum necklace, but Paup-Puk-Keewiss put him to the exercise of his reserved
powers of death and annihilation. And it is by this act that we perceive that Hiawatha, or
Manabozho, was a divinity. Manabozho had been a hunter, a fisherman, a warrior, a suppliant,
a poor man, a starveling, a laughing stock and a mere beggar; he now shows himself a god, and
as such we must regard him as the prime Indian myth.

This myth, the more it is examined, the more extensive does it appear to be incorporated in
some shape in the Indian mythology. If interpreted agreeably to the metaphysical symbols of
the old world, it would appear to be distilled from the same oriental symbolical crucible,
which produced an Osiris and a Typhon--for the American Typhon is represented by the Mishikinabik,
or serpent, and the American Osiris by a Hiawatha, Manabozho, Micabo, or great Hare-God, or Ghost.

This myth, as it is recognized under the name of Hiawatha by the Iroquois, is without the misadventures
over which, in the person of Manabozho, the Algonquins laugh so heartily, and the particular
recitals of which, as given in prior pages, afford so much amusement to their lodge circles.
According to the Iroquois version, Tarenyawagon was deputed by the Master of Life, who is also
called the Holder of Heaven, to the earth, the better to prepare it for the residence of man,
and to teach the tribes the knowledge necessary to their condition, as well as to rid the land
of giants and monsters. Having accomplished this benevolent labor, he laid aside his heavenly
character and name, assuming that of Hiawatha; took a wife, and settled in a beautiful part
of the country. Hiawatha having set himself down to live as one of them, it was his care to
hold up, at all times, the best examples of prudential wisdom. All things, hard or wondrous,
were possible for him to do, as in the case of the hero of the Algonquin legend, and he had,
like him, a magic canoe to sail up and down the waters wherever he wished.

Hiawatha, after he had performed the higher functions appertaining to his character, settled
down in the Iroquois country, and was universally regarded as a sage. He instructed the tribes
how to repel savage invaders, who were in the habit of scourging the country, and was ever
ready to give them wise counsels. The chief things of these good counsels to the tribes were
to attend to their proper vocation, as hunters and fishermen, to cultivate corn, and to cease
dissensions and bickerings among themselves. He finally instructed them to form a general league
and confederacy against their common enemies. These maxims were enforced at a general council
of the Iroquois tribe, held at Onondaga, which place became the seat of their council fire,
and first government. This normal council of Iroquois sages resulted in placing the tribes
in their assembled, not tribal capacity, under the care of a moderator, or chief magistrate
of the assembled cantons, called Atatarho.[72]

Tradition recites many particulars of the acts of Hiawatha. It is preserved in their recitals,
that after his mission was virtually ended, or, rather, drawing to a close, how he proceeded,
in great state, to the council, in his magic canoe, taking with him his favorite daughter.
With her he landed on the shore of the lake of Onondaga, and was proceeding to the elevated
grounds appointed for the council, when a remarkable phenomenon appeared in the heavens, which
seemed, in its symbolical import, to say to Hiawatha: "Thy work is near its close." A white
bird, the bird of Heaven, appeared to come as a special messenger to him and to his daughter,
appearing as a small speck high in the higher atmosphere. As it descended and revealed its
character, its flight was attended with the greatest swiftness and force, and with no little
of the impetuosity of a stroke of lightning. To the dismay of all, it struck the daughter of
Hiawatha with such force as to drive her remains into the earth, completely annihilating her.
The bird itself was annihilated in annihilating Hiawatha's daughter. All that remained of it
were its scattered white plumes, purely white as silver clouds, and these plumes the warriors
eagerly gathered as the chief tokens, to be worn on their heads as symbols of their bravery
in war--a custom maintained to this day. Hiawatha stood aghast. He did not know how to interpret
the terrible token. He deeply mourned his daughter's fate; for a long time he was inconsolable,
and sat with his head down. But, in the end, and by persuasion, he roused himself from his
reverie. His thoughts revolved on his original mission to the Indian tribes. The Great Spirit
perhaps tells me, he said to himself, that my work here below is finished, and I must return
to him. For a while, he had not heeded the invitations to attend the largely gathered council
which waited for him, but as soon as his grief would enable him to attend, he roused himself
for the task. After tasting food, he assumed his usual manly dignity of character, and assumed
the oratorical attitude. Waiting till the other speakers had finished, he addressed his last
counsels to the listening tribes. By his wisdom and eloquent appeal, he entranced them. By
this valedictory address, replete with political wisdom, he closed his career. Having done
this, he announced the termination of his mission; then, entering his magic canoe, he began
to rise in the air--sweet strains of music were heard to arise as he mounted, and these could
be heard till he was carried up beyond human sight.

      [72] Cusic tells us there were thirteen of these magistrates
      before America was discovered. Here mythology takes the shape of
      historical tradition.

IËNA, THE WANDERER,

OR

MAGIC BUNDLE.

A CHIPPEWA ALLEGORY.

There was once a poor man called Iëna,[73] who was in the habit of wandering about from place
to place, forlorn, without relations and almost helpless. One day, as he went on a hunting
excursion, he hung up his bundle on the branch of a tree, to relieve himself from the burden
of carrying it, and then went in quest of game. On returning to the spot in the evening, he
was surprised to find a small but neat lodge built in the place where he had left his bundle;
and on looking in, he beheld a beautiful female sitting in the lodge, with his blanket lying
beside her. During the day he had been fortunate in killing a deer, which he had laid down
at the lodge door. But, to his surprise, the woman, in her attempt to bring it in, broke both
her legs. He looked at her with astonishment, and thought to himself, "I supposed I was blessed,
but I find my mistake. Gweengweeshee,"[74] said he, "I will leave my game with you, that you
may feast on it."

He then took up his bundle and departed. After walking some time he came to another tree, on
which he suspended his bundle as before, and went in search of game. Success again rewarded
his efforts, and he returned bringing a deer, but found, as before, that a lodge had sprung
up in the place where he had suspended his bundle. He looked in, and saw, as before, a beautiful
female sitting alone, with his bundle by her side. She arose, and came out to bring in the
deer, which he had deposited at the door, and he immediately went into the lodge and sat by
the fire, as he felt fatigued with the day's labors. Wondering, at last, at the delay of the
woman, he arose, and peeping through the door of the lodge, beheld her eating all the fat of
the deer. He exclaimed, "I thought I was blessed, but I find I am mistaken." Then addressing
the woman, "Poor Wabizhas,"[75] said he, "feast on the game that I have brought." He again
took up his bundle and departed, and as usual, hung it up on the branch of a tree, and wandered
off in quest of game. In the evening he returned with his customary good luck, bringing in
a fine deer, and again found a lodge occupying the place of his bundle. He gazed through an
aperture in the side of the lodge, and saw a beautiful woman sitting alone, with a bundle by
her side. As soon as he entered the lodge, she arose with alacrity, brought in the carcass,
cut it up, and hung up the meat to dry. After this, she prepared a portion of it for the supper
of the weary hunter. The man thought to himself, "Now I am certainly blessed." He continued
his practice of hunting every day, and the woman, on his return, always readily took care of
the meat, and prepared his meals for him. One thing, however, astonished him; he had never,
as yet, seen her eat anything, and kindly said to her, "Why do you not eat?" She replied, "I
have food of my own, which I eat."

On the fourth day he brought home with him a branch of uzadi[76] as a cane, which he placed,
with his game, at the door of the lodge. His wife, as usual, went out to prepare and bring
in the meat. While thus engaged, he heard her laughing to herself, and saying, "This is very
acceptable." The man, in peeping out to see the cause of her joy, saw her, with astonishment,
eating the bark of the poplar cane in the same manner that beavers gnaw. He then exclaimed,
"Ho, ho! Ho, ho! this is Amik;"[77] and ever afterward he was careful at evening to bring in
a bough of the poplar or the red willow, when she would exclaim, "Oh, this is very acceptable;
this is a change, for one gets tired eating white fish always (meaning the poplar); but the
carp (meaning the red willow) is a pleasant change."

On the whole, Iëna was much pleased with his wife for her neatness and attention to the things
in the lodge, and he lived a contented and happy man. Being industrious, she made him beautiful
bags from the bark of trees, and dressed the skins of the animals he killed in the most skilful
manner. When spring opened, they found themselves blessed with two children, one of them resembling
the father and the other the mother. One day the father made a bow and arrows for the child
that resembled him, who was a son, saying, "My son, you will use these arrows to shoot at the
little beavers when they begin to swim about the rivers." The mother, as soon as she heard
this, was highly displeased; and taking her children, unknown to her husband, left the lodge
in the night. A small river ran near the lodge, which the woman approached with her children.
She built a dam across the stream, erected a lodge of earth, and lived after the manner of
the beavers.

When the hunter awoke, he found himself alone in his lodge, and his wife and children absent.
He immediately made diligent search after them, and at last discovered their retreat on the
river. He approached the place of their habitation, and throwing himself prostrate on the top
of the lodge, exclaimed, "Shingisshenaun tshee neeboyaun."[78] The woman allowed the children
to go close to their father, but not to touch him; for, as soon as they came very near, she
would draw them away again, and in this manner she continued to torment him a long time. The
husband lay in this situation until he was almost starved, when a young female approached him,
and thus accosted him: "Look here; why are you keeping yourself in misery, and thus starving
yourself? Eat this," reaching him a little mokuk containing fresh raspberries which she had
just gathered. As soon as the beaveress, his former wife, beheld this, she began to abuse the
young woman, and said to her, "Why do you wish to show any kindness to that animal that has
but two legs? you will soon repent it." She also made sport of the young woman, saying, "Look
at her; she has a long nose, and she is just like a bear." The young woman, who was all the
time a bear in disguise, hearing herself thus reproached, broke down the dam of the beaver,
let the water run out, and nearly killed the beaver herself. Then turning to the man, she thus
addressed him: "Follow me; I will be kind to you. Follow me closely. You must be courageous,
for there are three persons who are desirous of marrying me, and will oppose you. Be careful
of yourself. Follow me nimbly, and, just as we approach the lodge, put your feet in the prints
of mine, for I have eight sisters who will do their utmost to divert your attention and make
you lose the way. Look neither to the right nor the left, but enter the lodge just as I do,
and take your seat where I do." As they proceeded they came in sight of a large lodge, when
he did as he had been directed, stepping in her tracks. As they entered the lodge the eight
sisters clamorously addressed him. "Oh, Ogidahkumigo[79] has lost his way," and each one invited
him to take his seat with her, desiring to draw him from their sister. The old people also
addressed him as he entered, and said, "Oh, make room for our son-in-law." The man, however,
took his seat by the side of his protectress, and was not farther importuned.

As they sat in the lodge, a great rushing of waters, as of a swollen river, came through the
centre of it, which also brought in its course a large stone, and left it before the man. When
the water subsided, a large white bear came in, and taking up the stone, bit it, and scratched
it with his paws, saying, "This is the manner in which I would handle Ogidahkumigo if I was
jealous." A yellow bear also entered the lodge and did the same. A black bear followed and
did the same. At length the man took up his bow and arrows, and prepared to shoot at the stone,
saying, "This is the way I would treat Odanamekumigo[80] if I was jealous." He then drew up
his bow and drove his arrow into the stone. Seeing this, the bears turned around, and with
their eyes fixed on him, stepped backward and left the lodge, which highly delighted the woman.
She exulted to think that her husband had conquered them.

Finally, one of the old folks made a cry, and said, "Come, come! there must be a gathering
of provisions for the winter." So they all took their cossoes, or bark dishes, and departed
to gather acorns for the winter. As they departed, the old man said to his daughter, "Tell
Ogidahkumigo to go to the place where your sisters have gone and let him select one of them,
so that, through her aid, he may have some food for himself during the winter; but be sure
to caution him to be very careful, when he is taking the skin from the animal, that he does
not cut the flesh." No sooner had the man heard this message, than he selected one of his sisters-in-law;
and when he was taking the skin from her, for she was all the while an enchanted female bear,
although careful, he cut her a little upon one of her arms, when she jumped up, assumed her
natural form, and ran home. The man also went home, and found her with her arm bound up, and
quite unwell.

A second cry was then made by the master of the lodge: "Come come! seek for winter quarters;"
and they all got ready to separate for the season. By this time the man had two children, one
resembling himself and the other his wife. When the cry was made, the little boy who resembled
his father was in such a hurry in putting on his moccasins, that he misplaced them, putting
the moccasin of the right foot upon the left. And this is the reason why the foot of the bear
is turned in.

They proceeded to seek their winter quarters, the wife going before to point the way. She always
selected the thickest part of the forest, where the child resembling the father found it difficult
to get along; and he never failed to cry out and complain. Iëna then went in advance, and sought
the open plain, whereupon the child resembling the mother would cry out and complain, because
she disliked an open path. As they were encamping, the woman said to her husband, "Go and break
branches for the lodge for the night." He did so; but when she looked at the manner in which
her husband broke the branches, she was very much offended, for he broke them upward instead
of downward. "It is not only very awkward," said she, "but we will be found out; for the Ogidahkumigoes[81]
will see where we have passed by the branches we have broken:" to avoid this, they agreed to
change their route, and were finally well established in their winter quarters. The wife had
sufficient food for her child, and would now and then give the dry berries she had gathered
in the summer to her husband.

One day, as spring drew on, she said to her husband, "I must boil you some meat," meaning her
own paws, which bears suck in the month of April. She had all along told him, during the winter,
that she meant to resume her real shape of a female bear, and to give herself up to the Ogidahkumigoes,
to be killed by them, and that the time of their coming was near at hand. It came to pass,
soon afterward, that a hunter discovered her retreat. She told her husband to move aside, "for,"
she added, "I am now giving myself up." The hunter fired and killed her.

Iëna then came out from his hiding-place, and went home with the hunter. As they went, he instructed
him what he must hereafter do when he killed bears. "You must," said he, "never cut the flesh
in taking off the skin, nor hang up the feet with the flesh when drying it. But you must take
the head and feet, and decorate them handsomely, and place tobacco on the head, for these animals
are very fond of this article, and on the fourth day they come to life again."

      [73] From Ienawdizzi, a wanderer.

      [74] The night-hawk.

      [75] A marten.

      [76] The common poplar, or P. tremuloides.

      [77] The beaver.

      [78] Here I will lie until I die.

      [79] This term means a man that lives on the surface of the
      earth, as contradistinguished from beings living underground.

      [80] He who lives in the city under ground.

      [81] People who live above ground.

MISHOSHA,

OR

THE MAGICIAN OF LAKE SUPERIOR.

In an early age of the world, when there were fewer inhabitants than there now are, there lived
an Indian, in a remote place, who had a wife and two children. They seldom saw any one out
of the circle of their own lodge. Animals were abundant in so secluded a situation, and the
man found no difficulty in supplying his family with food.

In this way they lived in peace and happiness, which might have continued if the hunter had
not found cause to suspect his wife. She secretly cherished an attachment for a young man whom
she accidentally met one day in the woods. She even planned the death of her husband for his
sake, for she knew if she did not kill her husband, her husband, the moment he detected her
crime, would kill her.

The husband, however, eluded her project by his readiness and decision. He narrowly watched
her movements. One day he secretly followed her footsteps into the forest, and having concealed
himself behind a tree, he soon beheld a tall young man approach and lead away his wife. His
arrows were in his hands, but he did not use them. He thought he would kill her the moment
she returned.

Meantime, he went home and sat down to think. At last he came to the determination of quitting
her forever, thinking that her own conscience would punish her sufficiently, and relying on
her maternal feelings to take care of the two children, who were boys, he immediately took
up his arms and departed.

When the wife returned she was disappointed in not finding her husband, for she had now concerted
her plan, and intended to have dispatched him. She waited several days, thinking he might have
been led away by the chase, but finding he did not return, she suspected the true cause. Leaving
her two children in the lodge, she told them she was going a short distance and would return.
She then fled to her paramour and came back no more.

The children, thus abandoned, soon made way with the food left in the lodge, and were compelled
to quit it in search of more. The eldest boy, who was of an intrepid temper, was strongly attached
to his brother, frequently carrying him when he became weary, and gathering all the wild fruit
he saw. They wandered deeper and deeper into the forest, losing all traces of their former
habitation, until they were completely lost in its mazes.

The eldest boy had a knife, with which he made a bow and arrows, and was thus enabled to kill
a few birds for himself and brother. In this manner they continued to pass on, from one piece
of forest to another, not knowing whither they were going. At length they saw an opening through
the woods, and were shortly afterward delighted to find themselves on the borders of a large
lake. Here the elder brother busied himself in picking the seed pods of the wild rose, which
he reserved as food. In the mean time, the younger brother amused himself by shooting arrows
in the sand, one of which happened to fall into the lake. Panigwun,[82] the elder brother,
not willing to lose the arrow, waded in the water to reach it. Just as he was about to grasp
the arrow, a canoe passed up to him with great rapidity. An old man, sitting in the centre,
seized the affrighted youth and placed him in the canoe. In vain the boy addressed him--"My
grandfather (a term of respect for old people), pray take my little brother also. Alone, I
cannot go with you; he will starve if I leave him." Mishosha (the old man) only laughed at
him. Then uttering the charm, Chemaun Poll, and giving his canoe a slap, it glided through
the water with inconceivable swiftness. In a few moments they reached the habitation of the
magician, standing on an island in the centre of the lake. Here he lived with his two daughters,
who managed the affairs of his household. Leading the young man up to the lodge, he addressed
his eldest daughter. "Here," said he, "my daughter, I have brought a young man to be your husband."
Husband! thought the young woman; rather another victim of your bad arts, and your insatiate
enmity to the human race. But she made no reply, seeming thereby to acquiesce in her father's will.

The young man thought he saw surprise depicted in the eyes of the daughter, during the scene
of this introduction, and determined to watch events narrowly. In the evening he overheard
the two daughters in conversation. "There," said the eldest daughter, "I told you he would
not be satisfied with his last sacrifice. He has brought another victim, under the pretence
of providing me a husband. Husband, indeed! the poor youth will be in some horrible predicament
before another sun has set. When shall we be spared the scenes of vice and wickedness which
are daily taking place before our eyes?"

Panigwun took the first opportunity of acquainting the daughters how he had been carried off,
and been compelled to leave his little brother on the shore. They told him to wait until their
father was asleep, then to get up and take his canoe, and using the charm he had obtained,
it would carry him quickly to his brother. That he could carry him food, prepare a lodge for
him, and be back before daybreak. He did, in every respect, as he had been directed--the canoe
obeyed the charm, and carried him safely over, and after providing for the subsistence of his
brother, he told him that in a short time he should come for him. Then returning to the enchanted
island, he resumed his place in the lodge, before the magician awoke. Once, during the night,
Mishosha awoke, and not seeing his destined son-in-law, asked his daughter what had become
of him. She replied that he had merely stepped out, and would be back soon. This satisfied
him. In the morning, finding the young man in the lodge, his suspicions were completely lulled.
"I see, my daughter," said he, "you have told the truth."

As soon as the sun arose, Mishosha thus addressed the young man. "Come, my son, I have a mind
to gather gulls' eggs. I know an island where there are great quantities, and I wish your aid
in getting them." The young man saw no reasonable excuse; and getting into the canoe, the magician
gave it a slap, and uttering a command, they were in an instant at the island. They found the
shores strown with gulls' eggs, and the island full of birds of this species. "Go, my son,"
said the old man, "and gather the eggs, while I remain in the canoe."

But Panigwun had no sooner got ashore, than Mishosha pushed his canoe a little from the land,
and exclaimed--"Listen, ye gulls! you have long expected an offering from me. I now give you
a victim. Fly down and devour him." Then striking his canoe, he left the young man to his fate.

The birds immediately came in clouds around their victim, darkening the air with their numbers.
But the youth seizing the first that came near him, and drawing his knife, cut off its head.
He immediately skinned the bird and hung the feathers as a trophy on his breast. "Thus," he
exclaimed, "will I treat every one of you who approaches me. Forbear, therefore, and listen
to my words. It is not for you to eat human flesh. You have been given by the Great Spirit
as food for man. Neither is it in the power of that old magician to do you any good. Take me
on your backs and carry me to his lodge, and you shall see that I am not ungrateful." The gulls
obeyed; collecting in a cloud for him to rest upon, and quickly flew to the lodge, where they
arrived before the magician. The daughters were surprised at his return, but Mishosha, on entering
the lodge, conducted himself as if nothing extraordinary had taken place.

The next day he again addressed the youth: "Come, my son," said he, "I will take you to an
island covered with the most beautiful stones and pebbles, looking like silver. I wish you
to assist me in gathering some of them. They will make handsome ornaments, and possess great
medicinal virtues." Entering the canoe, the magician made use of his charm, and they were carried
in a few moments to a solitary bay in an island, where there was a smooth sandy beach. The
young man went ashore as usual, and began to search. "A little further, a little further,"
cried the old man. "Upon that rock you will get some fine ones." Then pushing his canoe from
land--"Come, thou great king of fishes," cried the old man; "you have long expected an offering
from me. Come, and eat the stranger whom I have just put ashore on your island." So saying,
he commanded his canoe to return, and it was soon out of sight.

Immediately a monstrous fish thrust his long snout from the water, crawling partially on the
beach, and opening wide his jaws to receive his victim. "When!" exclaimed the young man, drawing
his knife and putting himself in a threatening attitude, "when did you ever taste human flesh?
Have a care of yourself. You were given by the Great Spirit to man, and if you, or any of your
tribe eat human flesh you will fall sick and die. Listen not to the words of that wicked man,
but carry me back to his island, in return for which I will present you a piece of red cloth."
The fish complied, raising his back out of the water, to allow the young man to get on. Then
taking his way through the lake, he landed his charge safely on the island before the return
of the magician. The daughters were still more surprised to see that he had escaped the arts
of their father the second time. But the old man on his return maintained his taciturnity and
self-composure. He could not, however, help saying to himself--"What manner of boy is this,
who is ever escaping from my power? But his spirit shall not save him. I will entrap him to-morrow.
Ha, ha, ha!"

Next day the magician addressed the young man as follows: "Come, my son," said he, "you must
go with me to procure some young eagles. I wish to tame them. I have discovered an island where
they are in great abundance." When they had reached the island, Mishosha led him inland until
they came to the foot of a tall pine, upon which the nests were. "Now, my son," said he, "climb
up this tree and bring down the birds." The young man obeyed. When he had with great difficulty
got near the nest, "Now," exclaimed the magician, addressing the tree, "stretch yourself up
and be very tall." The tree rose up at the command. "Listen, ye eagles," continued the old
man, "you have long expected a gift from me. I now present you this boy, who has had the presumption
to molest your young. Stretch forth your claws and seize him." So saying, he left the young
man to his fate, and returned.

But the intrepid youth, drawing his knife, and cutting off the head of the first eagle that
menaced him, raised his voice and exclaimed, "Thus will I deal with all who come near me. What
right have you, ye ravenous birds, who were made to feed on beasts, to eat human flesh? Is
it because that cowardly old canoe-man has bid you do so? He is an old woman. He can neither
do you good nor harm. See, I have already slain one of your number. Respect my bravery, and
carry me back that I may show you how I shall treat you."

The eagles, pleased with his spirit, assented, and clustering thick around him formed a seat
with their backs, and flew toward the enchanted island. As they crossed the water they passed
over the magician, lying half asleep in his canoe.

The return of the young man was hailed with joy by the daughters, who now plainly saw that
he was under the guidance of a strong spirit. But the ire of the old man was excited, although
he kept his temper under subjection. He taxed his wits for some new mode of ridding himself
of the youth, who had so successfully baffled his skill. He next invited him to go a hunting.

Taking his canoe, they proceeded to an island and built a lodge to shelter themselves during
the night. In the mean while the magician caused a deep fall of snow, with a storm of wind
and severe cold. According to custom, the young man pulled off his moccasins and leggings,
and hung them before the fire to dry. After he had gone to sleep, the magician, watching his
opportunity, got up, and taking one moccasin and one legging, threw them into the fire. He
then went to sleep. In the morning, stretching himself as he arose and uttering an exclamation
of surprise, "My son," said he, "what has become of your moccasin and legging? I believe this
is the moon in which fire attracts, and I fear they have been drawn in." The young man suspected
the true cause of his loss, and rightly attributed it to a design of the magician to freeze
him to death on the march. But he maintained the strictest silence, and drawing his conaus
over his head, thus communed with himself: "I have full faith in the Manito who has preserved
me thus far, I do not fear that he will forsake me in this cruel emergency. Great is his power,
and I invoke it now that he may enable me to prevail over this wicked enemy of mankind."

He then drew on the remaining moccasin and legging, and taking a dead coal from the fireplace,
invoked his spirit to give it efficacy, and blackened his foot and leg as far as the lost garment
usually reached. He then got up and announced himself ready for the march. In vain Mishosha
led him through snows and over morasses, hoping to see the lad sink at every moment. But in
this he was disappointed, and for the first time they returned home together.

Taking courage from this success, the young man now determined to try his own power, having
previously consulted with the daughters. They all agreed that the life the old man led was
detestable, and that whoever would rid the world of him, would entitle himself to the thanks
of the human race.

On the following day the young man thus addressed his hoary captor: "My grandfather, I have
often gone with you on perilous excursions, and never murmured. I must now request that you
will accompany me. I wish to visit my little brother, and to bring him home with me." They
accordingly went on a visit to the main land, and found the little lad in the spot where he
had been left. After taking him into the canoe, the young man again addressed the magician:
"My grandfather, will you go and cut me a few of those red willows on the bank, I wish to prepare
some smoking mixture." "Certainly, my son," replied the old man; "what you wish is not very
hard. Ha, ha, ha! do you think me too old to get up there?" No sooner was Mishosha ashore,
than the young man, placing himself in the proper position struck the canoe with his hand,
and pronouncing the charm, N'chimaun Poll, the canoe immediately flew through the water on
its return to the island. It was evening when the two brothers arrived, and carried the canoe
ashore. But the elder daughter informed the young man that unless he sat up and watched the
canoe, and kept his hand upon it, such was the power of their father, it would slip off and
return to him. Panigwun watched faithfully till near the dawn of day, when he could no longer
resist the drowsiness which oppressed him, and he fell into a short doze. In the mean time,
the canoe slipped off and sought its master, who soon returned in high glee. "Ha, ha, ha! my
son," said he; "you thought to play me a trick. It was very clever. But you see I am too old
for you."

A short time after, the youth again addressed the magician. "My grandfather, I wish to try
my skill in hunting. It is said there is plenty of game on an island not far off, and I have
to request that you will take me there in your canoe." They accordingly went to the island
and spent the day in hunting. Night coming on they put up a temporary lodge. When the magician
had sunk into a profound sleep, the young man got up, and taking one of Mishosha's leggings
and moccasins from the place where they hung, threw them into the fire, thus retaliating the
artifice before played upon himself. He had discovered that the foot and leg were the only
vulnerable parts of the magician's body. Having committed these articles to the fire, he besought
his Manito that he would raise a great storm of snow, wind, and hail, and then laid himself
down beside the old man. Consternation was depicted on the countenance of the latter, when
he awoke in the morning and found his moccasin and legging missing. "I believe, my grandfather,"
said the young man, "that this is the moon in which fire attracts, and I fear your foot and
leg garments have been drawn in." Then rising and bidding the old man follow him, he began
the morning's hunt, frequently turning to see how Mishosha kept up. He saw him faltering at
every step, and almost benumbed with cold, but encouraged him to follow, saying, we shall soon
get through and reach the shore; although he took pains, at the same time, to lead him in roundabout
ways, so as to let the frost take complete effect. At length the old man reached the brink
of the island where the woods are succeeded by a border of smooth sand. But he could go no
farther; his legs became stiff and refused motion, and he found himself fixed to the spot.
But he still kept stretching out his arms and swinging his body to and fro. Every moment he
found the numbness creeping higher. He felt his legs growing downward like roots, the feathers
of his head turned to leaves, and in a few seconds he stood a tall and stiff sycamore, leaning
toward the water.

Panigwun leaped into the canoe, and pronouncing the charm, was soon transported to the island,
where he related his victory to the daughters. They applauded the deed, agreed to put on mortal
shapes, become wives to the two young men, and forever quit the enchanted island. And passing
immediately over to the main land, they lived lives of happiness and peace.

      [82] The end wing feather.

PEETA KWAY,

THE FOAM-WOMAN.

AN OTTOWA LEGEND.

There once lived a woman called Monedo Kway[83] on the sand mountains called "the Sleeping
Bear," of Lake Michigan, who had a daughter as beautiful as she was modest and discreet. Everybody
spoke of the beauty of this daughter. She was so handsome that her mother feared she would
be carried off, and to prevent it she put her in a box on the lake, which was tied by a long
string to a stake on the shore. Every morning the mother pulled the box ashore, and combed
her daughter's long, shining hair, gave her food, and then put her out again on the lake.

One day a handsome young man chanced to come to the spot at the moment she was receiving her
morning's attentions from her mother. He was struck with her beauty, and immediately went home
and told his feelings to his uncle, who was a great chief and a powerful magician. "My nephew,"
replied the old man, "go to the mother's lodge, and sit down in a modest manner, without saying
a word. You need not ask her the question. But whatever you think she will understand, and
what she thinks in answer you will also understand." The young man did so. He sat down, with
his head dropped in a thoughtful manner, without uttering a word. He then thought, "I wish
she would give me her daughter." Very soon he understood the mother's thoughts in reply. "Give
you my daughter?" thought she; "you! No, indeed, my daughter shall never marry you." The young
man went away and reported the result to his uncle. "Woman without good sense;" said he, "who
is she keeping her daughter for? Does she think she will marry the Mudjikewis?[84] Proud heart!
we will try her magic skill, and see whether she can withstand our power." The pride and haughtiness
of the mother was talked of by the spirits living on that part of the lake. They met together
and determined to exert their power in humbling her. For this purpose they resolved to raise
a great storm on the lake. The water began to toss and roar, and the tempest became so severe,
that the string broke, and the box floated off through the straits down Lake Huron, and struck
against the sandy shores at its outlet. The place where it struck was near the lodge of a superannuated
old spirit called Ishkwon Daimeka, or the keeper of the gate of the lakes. He opened the box
and let out the beautiful daughter, took her into his lodge, and married her.

When the mother found that her daughter had been blown off by the storm, she raised very loud
cries and lamented exceedingly. This she continued to do for a long time, and would not be
comforted. At length, after two or three years, the spirits had pity on her, and determined
to raise another storm and bring her back. It was even a greater storm than the first; and
when it began to wash away the ground and encroach on the lodge of Ishkwon Daimeka, she leaped
into the box, and the waves carried her back to the very spot of her mother's lodge on the
shore. Monedo Equa was overjoyed; but when she opened the box, she found that her daughter's
beauty had almost all departed. However, she loved her still because she was her daughter,
and now thought of the young man who had made her the offer of marriage. She sent a formal
message to him, but he had altered his mind, for he knew that she had been the wife of another:
"I marry your daughter?" said he; "your daughter! No, indeed! I shall never marry her."

The storm that brought her back was so strong and powerful, that it tore away a large part
of the shore of the lake, and swept off Ishkwon Daimeka's lodge, the fragments of which, lodging
in the straits, formed those beautiful islands which are scattered in the St. Clair and Detroit
rivers. The old man himself was drowned, and his bones are buried under them. They heard him
singing his songs of lamentation as he was driven off on a portion of his lodge; as if he had
been called to testify his bravery and sing his war song at the stake.

    I ride the waters like the winds;
    No storms can blench my heart.

      [83] Female spirit or prophetess.

      [84] A term indicative of the heir or successor to the first
      place in power.

PAH-HAH-UNDOOTAH,

THE RED HEAD.

A DACOTAH LEGEND.

As spring approaches, the Indians return from their wintering grounds to their villages, engage
in feasting, soon exhaust their stock of provisions, and begin to suffer for the want of food.
Such of the hunters as are of an active and enterprising cast of character, take the occasion
to separate from the mass of the population, and remove to some neighboring locality in the
forest, which promises the means of subsistence during this season of general lassitude and
enjoyment.

Among the families who thus separated themselves, on a certain occasion, there was a man called
Odshedoph Waucheentongah, or the Child of Strong Desires, who had a wife and one son. After
a day's travel he reached an ample wood with his family, which was thought to be a suitable
place to encamp. The wife fixed the lodge, while the husband went out to hunt. Early in the
evening he returned with a deer. Being tired and thirsty he asked his son to go to the river
for some water. The son replied that it was dark and he was afraid. He urged him to go, saying
that his mother, as well as himself, was tired, and the distance to the water was very short.
But no persuasion was of any avail. He refused to go. "Ah, my son," said the father, at last,
"if you are afraid to go to the river, you will never kill the Red Head."

The boy was deeply mortified by this observation. It seemed to call up all his latent energies.
He mused in silence. He refused to eat, and made no reply when spoken to.

The next day he asked his mother to dress the skin of the deer, and make it into moccasins
for him, while he busied himself in preparing a bow and arrows. As soon as these things were
done, he left the lodge one morning at sunrise, without saying a word to his father or mother.
He fired one of his arrows into the air, which fell westward. He took that course, and at night
coming to the spot where the arrow had fallen, was rejoiced to find it piercing the heart of
a deer. He refreshed himself with a meal of the venison, and the next morning fired another
arrow. After travelling all day, he found it also in another deer. In this manner he fired
four arrows, and every evening found that he had killed a deer. What was very singular, however,
was, that he left the arrows sticking in the carcasses, and passed on without withdrawing them.
In consequence of this, he had no arrow for the fifth day, and was in great distress at night
for the want of food. At last he threw himself upon the ground in despair, concluding that
he might as well perish there as go further. But he had not lain long before he heard a hollow,
rumbling noise, in the ground beneath him. He sprang up, and discovered at a distance the figure
of a human being, walking with a stick. He looked attentively and saw that the figure was walking
in a wide beaten path, in a prairie, leading from a lodge to a lake. To his surprise, this
lodge was at no great distance. He approached a little nearer and concealed himself. He soon
discovered that the figure was no other than that of the terrible witch, Wok-on-kahtohn-zooeyah-pee-kah-haitchee,
or the little old woman who makes war. Her path to the lake was perfectly smooth and solid,
and the noise our adventurer had heard, was caused by the striking of her walking staff upon
the ground. The top of this staff was decorated with a string of the toes and bills of birds
of every kind, who at every stroke of the stick, fluttered and sung their various notes in concert.

She entered her lodge and laid off her mantle, which was entirely composed of the scalps of
women. Before folding it, she shook it several times, and at every shake the scalps uttered
loud shouts of laughter, in which the old hag joined. Nothing could have frightened him more
than this horrific exhibition. After laying by the cloak she came directly to him. She informed
him that she had known him from the time he left his father's lodge, and watched his movements.
She told him not to fear or despair, for she would be his friend and protector. She invited
him into her lodge, and gave him a supper. During the repast, she inquired of him his motives
for visiting her. He related his history, stated the manner in which he had been disgraced,
and the difficulties he labored under. She cheered him with the assurance of her friendship,
and told him he would be a brave man yet.

She then commenced the exercise of her power upon him. His hair being very short, she took
a large leaden comb, and after drawing it through his hair several times, it became of a handsome
feminine length. She then proceeded to dress him as a female, furnishing him with the necessary
garments, and decorated his face with paints of the most beautiful dye. She gave him a bowl
of shining metal. She directed him to put in his girdle a blade of scented sword-grass, and
to proceed the next morning to the banks of the lake, which was no other than that over which
the Red Head reigned. Now Pah-hah-undootah, or the Red Head, was a most powerful sorcerer and
the terror of all the country, living upon an island in the centre of the lake.

She informed him that there would be many Indians on the island, who, as soon as they saw him
use the shining bowl to drink with, would come and solicit him to be their wife, and to take
him over to the island. These offers he was to refuse, and say that he had come a great distance
to be the wife of the Red Head, and that if the chief could not come for her in his own canoe,
she should return to her village. She said that as soon as the Red Head heard of this, he would
come for her in his own canoe, in which she must embark. On reaching the island he must consent
to be his wife, and in the evening induce him to take a walk out of the village, when he was
to take the first opportunity to cut off his head with the blade of grass. She also gave him
general advice how he was to conduct himself to sustain his assumed character of a woman. His
fear would scarcely permit him to accede to this plan, but the recollection of his father's
words and looks decided him.

Early in the morning, he left the witch's lodge, and took the hard beaten path to the banks
of the lake. He reached the water at a point directly opposite the Red Head's village. It was
a beautiful day. The heavens were clear, and the sun shone out in the greatest effulgence.
He had not been long there, having sauntered along the beach, when he displayed the glittering
bowl, by dipping water from the lake. Very soon a number of canoes came off from the island.
The men admired his dress, and were charmed with his beauty, and a great number made proposals
of marriage. These he promptly declined, agreeably to the concerted plan. When the facts were
reported to the Red Head, he ordered his canoe to be put in the water by his chosen men, and
crossed over to see this wonderful girl. As he came near the shore, he saw that the ribs of
the sorcerer's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes, whose heads pointed outward to guard
him from enemies. Our adventurer had no sooner stepped into the canoe than they began to hiss
and rattle, which put him in a great fright. But the magician spoke to them, after which they
became pacified and quiet, and all at once they were at the landing upon the island. The marriage
immediately took place, and the bride made presents of various valuables which had been furnished
by the old witch.

As they were sitting in the lodge surrounded by friends and relatives, the mother of the Red
Head regarded the face of her new daughter-in-law for a long time with fixed attention. From
this scrutiny she was convinced that this singular and hasty marriage augured no good to her
son. She drew her husband aside and disclosed to him her suspicions: "This can be no female,"
said she; "the figure and manners, the countenance, and more especially the expression of the
eyes, are, beyond a doubt, those of a man." Her husband immediately rejected her suspicions,
and rebuked her severely for the indignity offered to her daughter-in-law. He became so angry,
that seizing the first thing that came to hand, which happened to be his pipe stem, he beat
her unmercifully. This act requiring to be explained to the spectators, the mock bride immediately
rose up, and assuming an air of offended dignity, told the Red Head that after receiving so
gross an insult from his relatives he could not think of remaining with him as his wife, but
should forthwith return to his village and friends. He left the lodge followed by the Red Head,
and walked until he came upon the beach of the island, near the spot where they had first landed.
Red Head entreated him to remain. He pressed him by every motive which he thought might have
weight, but they were all rejected. During this conference they had seated themselves upon
the ground, and Red Head, in great affliction, reclined his head upon his fancied wife's lap.
This was the opportunity ardently sought for, and it was improved to the best advantage. Every
means was taken to lull him to sleep, and partly by a soothing manner, and partly by a seeming
compliance with his request, the object was at last attained. Red Head fell into a sound sleep.
Our aspirant for the glory of a brave man then drew his blade of grass, and drawing it once
across the neck of the Red Head completely severed the head from the body.

He immediately stripped off his dress, seized the bleeding head, and plunging into the lake,
swam safely over to the main shore. He had scarcely reached it, when, looking back, he saw
amid the darkness the torches of persons come out in search of the new-married couple. He listened
till they had found the headless body, and he heard their piercing shrieks of sorrow, as he
took his way to the lodge of his kind adviser.

She received him with rejoicing. She admired his prudence, and told him his bravery could never
be questioned again. Lifting up the head, she said he need only have brought the scalp. She
cut off a small piece for herself, and told him he might now return with the head, which would
be evidence of an achievement that would cause the Indians to respect him. In your way home,
she said, you will meet with but one difficulty. Maunkah Keesh Woccaung, or the spirit of the
Earth, requires an offering from those who perform extraordinary achievements. As you walk
along in a prairie, there will be an earthquake. The earth will open and divide the prairie
in the middle. Take this partridge and throw it into the opening, and instantly spring over
it. All this happened precisely as it had been foretold. He cast the partridge into the crevice
and leapt over it. He then proceeded without obstruction to a place near his village, where
he secreted his trophy. On entering the village he found his parents had returned from the
place of their spring encampment, and were in great sorrow for their son, whom they supposed
to be lost. One and another of the young men had presented themselves to the disconsolate parents,
and said, "Look up, I am your son." Having been often deceived in this manner, when their own
son actually presented himself, they sat with their heads down, and with their eyes nearly
blinded with weeping. It was some time before they could be prevailed upon to bestow a glance
upon him. It was still longer before they recognized him for their son; when he recounted his
adventures they believed him mad. The young men laughed at him. He left the lodge and soon
returned with his trophy. It was soon recognized. All doubts of the reality of his adventures
now vanished. He was greeted with joy and placed among the first warriors of the nation. He
finally became a chief, and his family were ever after respected and esteemed.

THE WHITE STONE CANOE.

There was once a very beautiful young girl, who died suddenly on the day she was to have been
married to a handsome young man. He was also brave, but his heart was not proof against this
loss. From the hour she was buried, there was no more joy or peace for him. He went often to
visit the spot where the women had buried her, and sat musing there, when, it was thought,
by some of his friends, he would have done better to try to amuse himself in the chase, or
by diverting his thoughts in the war-path. But war and hunting had both lost their charms for
him. His heart was already dead within him. He pushed aside both his war-club and his bow and
arrows.

He had heard the old people say, that there was a path that led to the land of souls, and he
determined to follow it. He accordingly set out, one morning, after having completed his preparations
for the journey. At first he hardly knew which way to go. He was only guided by the tradition
that he must go south. For a while he could see no change in the face of the country. Forests,
and hills, and valleys, and streams had the same looks which they wore in his native place.
There was snow on the ground, when he set out, and it was sometimes seen to be piled and matted
on the thick trees and bushes. At length it began to diminish, and finally disappeared. The
forest assumed a more cheerful appearance, and the leaves put forth their buds, and before
he was aware of the completeness of the change, he found himself surrounded by spring. He had
left behind him the land of snow and ice. The air became mild; the dark clouds of winter had
rolled away from the sky; a pure field of blue was above him, and as he went he saw flowers
beside his path, and heard the songs of birds. By these signs he knew that he was going the
right way, for they agreed with the traditions of his tribe. At length he spied a path. It
led him through a grove, then up a long and elevated ridge, on the very top of which he came
to a lodge. At the door stood an old man, with white hair, whose eyes, though deeply sunk,
had a fiery brilliancy. He had a long robe of skins thrown loosely around his shoulders, and
a staff in his hands. It was Chebiabos.

The young Chippewa began to tell his story; but the venerable chief arrested him, before he
had proceeded to speak ten words. "I have expected you," he replied, "and had just risen to
bid you welcome to my abode. She whom you seek, passed here but a few days since, and being
fatigued with her journey, rested herself here. Enter my lodge and be seated, and I will then
satisfy your inquiries, and give you directions for your journey from this point." Having done
this, they both issued forth to the lodge door. "You see yonder gulf," said he, "and the wide
stretching blue plains beyond. It is the land of souls. You stand upon its borders, and my
lodge is the gate of entrance. But you cannot take your body along. Leave it here with your
bow and arrows, your bundle, and your dog. You will find them safe on your return." So saying,
he re-entered the lodge, and the freed traveller bounded forward, as if his feet had suddenly
been endowed with the power of wings. But all things retained their natural colors and shapes.
The woods and leaves, and streams and lakes, were only more bright and comely than he had ever
witnessed. Animals bounded across his path, with a freedom and a confidence which seemed to
tell him, there was no blood shed here. Birds of beautiful plumage inhabited the groves, and
sported in the waters. There was but one thing, in which he saw a very unusual effect. He noticed
that his passage was not stopped by trees or other objects. He appeared to walk directly through
them. They were, in fact, but the souls or shadows of material trees. He became sensible that
he was in a land of shadows. When he had travelled half a day's journey, through a country
which was continually becoming more attractive, he came to the banks of a broad lake, in the
centre of which was a large and beautiful island. He found a canoe of shining white stone,
tied to the shore. He was now sure that he had come the right path, for the aged man had told
him of this. There were also shining paddles. He immediately entered the canoe, and took the
paddles in his hands, when to his joy and surprise, on turning round, he beheld the object
of his search in another canoe, exactly its counterpart in everything. She had exactly imitated
his motions, and they were side by side. They at once pushed out from shore and began to cross
the lake. Its waves seemed to be rising, and at a distance looked ready to swallow them up;
but just as they entered the whitened edge of them they seemed to melt away, as if they were
but the images of waves. But no sooner was one wreath of foam passed, than another, more threatening
still, rose up. Thus they were in perpetual fear; and what added to it, was the clearness of
the water, through which they could see heaps of beings who had perished before, and whose
bones lay strewed on the bottom of the lake. The Master of Life had, however, decreed to let
them pass, for the actions of neither of them had been bad. But they saw many others struggling
and sinking in the waves. Old men and young men, males and females of all ages and ranks, were
there; some passed, and some sank. It was only the little children whose canoes seemed to meet
no waves. At length, every difficulty was gone, as in a moment, and they both leaped out on
the happy island. They felt that the very air was food. It strengthened and nourished them.
They wandered together over the blissful fields, where everything was formed to please the
eye and the ear. There were no tempests--there was no ice, no chilly winds--no one shivered
for the want of warm clothes: no one suffered for hunger--no one mourned the dead. They saw
no graves. They heard of no wars. There was no hunting of animals; for the air itself was their
food. Gladly would the young warrior have remained there forever, but he was obliged to go
back for his body. He did not see the Master of Life, but he heard his voice in a soft breeze.
"Go back," said this voice, "to the land from whence you come. Your time has not yet come.
The duties for which I made you, and which you are to perform, are not yet finished. Return
to your people and accomplish the duties of a good man. You will be the ruler of your tribe
for many days. The rules you must observe will be told you by my messenger, who keeps the gate.
When he surrenders back your body, he will tell you what to do. Listen to him, and you shall
afterwards rejoin the spirit, which you must now leave behind. She is accepted, and will be
ever here, as young and as happy as she was when I first called her from the land of snows."
When this voice ceased, the narrator awoke. It was the fancy work of a dream, and he was still
in the bitter land of snows, and hunger, and tears.

ONAIAZO, THE SKY-WALKER.

A LEGEND OF A VISIT TO THE SUN.

AN OTTOWA MYTH.

A long time ago, there lived an aged Odjibwa and his wife, on the Shores of Lake Huron. They
had an only son, a very beautiful boy, whose name was O-na-wut-a-qut-o, or he that catches
the clouds. The family were of the totem of the beaver. The parents were very proud of him,
and thought to make him a celebrated man, but when he reached the proper age, he would not
submit to the We-koon-de-win, or fast. When this time arrived, they gave him charcoal, instead
of his breakfast, but he would not blacken his face. If they denied him food, he would seek
for birds' eggs, along the shores, or pick up the heads of fish that had been cast away, and
broil them. One day, they took away violently the food he had thus prepared, and cast him some
coals in place of it. This act brought him to a decision. He took the coals and blackened his
face, and went out of the lodge. He did not return, but slept without; and during the night,
he had a dream. He dreamed that he saw a very beautiful female come down from the clouds and
stand by his side. "O-no-wut-a-qut-o," said she, "I am come for you--step in my tracks." The
young man did so, and presently felt himself ascending above the tops of the trees--he mounted
up, step by step, into the air, and through the clouds. His guide, at length, passed through
an orifice, and he, following her, found himself standing on a beautiful plain.

A path led to a splendid lodge. He followed her into it. It was large, and divided into two
parts. On one end he saw bows and arrows, clubs and spears, and various warlike implements
tipped with silver. On the other end were things exclusively belonging to females. This was
the home of his fair guide, and he saw that she had, on the frame, a broad rich belt, of many
colors, which she was weaving. She said to him: "My brother is coming and I must hide you."
Putting him in one corner, she spread the belt over him. Presently the brother came in, very
richly dressed, and shining as if he had points of silver all over him. He took down from the
wall a splendid pipe, together with his sack of a-pa-ko-ze-gun, or smoking mixture. When he
had finished regaling himself in this way, and laid his pipe aside, he said to his sister:
"Nemissa" (which is, my elder sister), "when will you quit these practices? Do you forget that
the Greatest of the Spirits had commanded that you should not take away the child from below?
Perhaps you suppose that you have concealed O-no-wut-a-qut-o, but do I not know of his coming?
If you would not offend me, send him back immediately." But this address did not alter her
purpose. She would not send him back. Finding that she was purposed in her mind, he then spoke
to the young lad, and called him from his hiding-place. "Come out of your concealment," said
he, "and walk about and amuse yourself. You will grow hungry if you remain there." He then
presented him a bow and arrows, and a pipe of red stone, richly ornamented. This was taken
as the word of consent to his marriage; so the two were considered husband and wife from that time.

O-no-wut-a-qut-o found everything exceedingly fair and beautiful around him, but he found no
inhabitants except her brother. There were flowers on the plains. There were bright and sparkling
streams. There were green valleys and pleasant trees. There were gay birds and beautiful animals,
but they were not such as he had been accustomed to see. There was also day and night, as on
the earth; but he observed that every morning the brother regularly left the lodge, and remained
absent all day; and every evening the sister departed, though it was commonly but for a part
of the night.

His curiosity was aroused to solve this mystery. He obtained the brother's consent to accompany
him in one of his daily journeys. They travelled over a smooth plain, without boundaries, until
O-no-wut-a-qut-o felt the gnawings of appetite, and asked his companion if there were no game.
"Patience! my brother," said he, "we shall soon reach the spot where I eat my dinner, and you
will then see how I am provided." After walking on a long time, they came to a place which
was spread over with fine mats, where they sat down to refresh themselves. There was, at this
place, a hole through the sky; and O-no-wut-a-qut-o, looked down, at the bidding of his companion,
upon the earth. He saw below the great lakes, and the villages of the Indians. In one place,
he saw a war party stealing on the camp of their enemies. In another, he saw feasting and dancing.
On a green plain, young men were engaged at ball. Along a stream, women were employed in gathering
the a-puk-wa for mats.

"Do you see," said the brother, "that group of children playing beside a lodge? Observe that
beautiful and active boy," said he, at the same time darting something at him, from his hand.
The child immediately fell, and was carried into the lodge.

They looked again, and saw the people gathering about the lodge. They heard the she-she-gwun,
of the meeta, and the song he sung, asking that the child's life might be spared. To this request,
the companion of O-no-wut-a-qut-o made answer: "Send me up the sacrifice of a white dog." Immediately
a feast was ordered by the parents of the child, the white dog was killed, his carcass was
roasted, and all the wise men and medicine men of the village assembled to witness the ceremony.
"There are many below," continued the voice of the brother, "whom you call great in medical
skill, but it is because their ears are open, and they listen to my voice, that they are able
to succeed. When I have struck one with sickness, they direct the people to look to me; and
when they send me the offering I ask, I remove my hand from off them, and they are well." After
he had said this, they saw the sacrifice parcelled out in dishes, for those who were at the
feast. The master of the feast then said, "We send this to thee, great Manito," and immediately
the roasted animal came up. Thus their dinner was supplied, and after they had eaten, they
returned to the lodge by another way.

After this manner they lived for some time; but the place became wearisome at last. O-no-wut-a-qut-o
thought of his friends, and wished to go back to them. He had not forgotten his native village,
and his father's lodge; and he asked leave of his wife to return. At length she consented.
"Since you are better pleased," she replied, "with the cares and the ills, and the poverty
of the world, than with the peaceful delights of the sky, and its boundless prairies, go! I
give you permission, and since I have brought you hither, I will conduct you back; but, remember,
you are still my husband, I hold a chain in my hand by which I can draw you back whenever I
will. My power over you is not, in any manner, diminished. Beware, therefore, how you venture
to take a wife among the people below. Should you ever do so, it is then that you shall feel
the force of my displeasure."

As she said this, her eyes sparkled--she raised herself slightly on her toes, and stretched
herself up, with a majestic air; and at that moment, O-no-wut-a-qut-o awoke from his dream.
He found himself on the ground, near his father's lodge, at the very spot where he had laid
himself down to fast. Instead of the bright beings of a higher world, he found himself surrounded
by his parents and relatives. His mother told him he had been absent a year. The change was
so great, that he remained for some time moody and abstracted, but by degrees he recovered
his spirits. He began to doubt the reality of all he had heard and seen above. At last, he
forgot the admonitions of his spouse, and married a beautiful young woman of his own tribe.
But within four days, she was a corpse. Even this fearful admonition was lost, and he repeated
the offence by a second marriage. Soon afterwards, he went out of the lodge, one night, but
never returned. It was believed that his Sun-wife had recalled him to the region of the clouds,
where, the tradition asserts, he still dwells, and walks on the daily rounds, which he once
witnessed.

BOSH-KWA-DOSH,

OR

THE MASTODON.

There was once a man who found himself alone in the world. He knew not whence he came, nor
who were his parents, and he wandered about from place to place, in search of something. At
last he became wearied and fell asleep. He dreamed that he heard a voice saying, "Nosis," that
is, my grandchild. When he awoke, he actually heard the word repeated, and looking around,
he saw a tiny little animal hardly big enough to be seen on the plain. While doubting whether
the voice could come from such a diminutive source, the little animal said to him, "My grandson,
you will call me Bosh-kwa-dosh. Why are you so desolate? Listen to me, and you shall find friends
and be happy. You must take me up and bind me to your body, and never put me aside, and success
in life shall attend you." He obeyed the voice, sewing up the little animal in the folds of
a string, or narrow belt, which he tied around his body, at his navel. He then set out in search
of some one like himself, or other object. He walked a long time in the woods without seeing
man or animal. He seemed all alone in the world. At length he came to a place where a stump
was cut, and on going over a hill he descried a large town in a plain. A wide road led through
the middle of it; but what seemed strange was, that on one side there were no inhabitants in
the lodges, while the other side was thickly inhabited. He walked boldly into the town.

The inhabitants came out and said: "Why here is the being we have heard so much of--here is
Anish-in-á-ba. See his eyes, and his teeth in a half circle--see the Wyaukenawbedaid! See his
bowels, how they are formed;"--for it seems they could look through him. The king's son, the
Mudjékewis, was particularly kind to him, and calling him brother-in-law, commanded that he
should be taken to his father's lodge and received with attention. The king gave him one of
his daughters. These people (who are supposed to be human, but whose rank in the scale of being
is left equivocal) passed much of their time in play and sports and trials of various, kinds.
When some time had passed, and he become refreshed and rested, he was invited to join in these
sports. The first test which they put him to, was the trial of frost. At some distance was
a large body of frozen water, and the trial consisted in lying down naked on the ice, and seeing
who could endure the longest. He went out with two young men, who began, by pulling off their
garments, and lying down on their faces. He did likewise, only keeping on the narrow magic
belt with the tiny little animal sewed in it; for he felt that in this alone was to be his
reliance and preservation. His competitors laughed and tittered during the early part of the
night, and amused themselves by thoughts of his fate. Once they called out to him, but he made
no reply. He felt a manifest warmth given out by his belt. About midnight, finding they were
still, he called out to them, in return, "What!" said he, "are you benumbed already? I am but
just beginning to feel a little cold." All was silence. He, however, kept his position till
early day break, when he got up and went to them. They were both quite dead, and frozen so
hard, that the flesh had bursted out under their finger nails, and their teeth stood out. As
he looked more closely, what was his surprise to find them both transformed into buffalo cows.
He tied them together, and carried them towards the village. As he came in sight, those who
had wished his death were disappointed, but the Mudjékewis, who was really his friend, rejoiced.
"See!" said he, "but one person approaches--it is my brother-in-law." He then threw down the
carcasses in triumph, but it was found that by their death he had restored two inhabitants
to the before empty lodges, and he afterwards perceived that every one of these beings, whom
he killed, had the like effect, so that the depopulated part of the village soon became filled
with people.

The next test they put him to, was the trial of speed. He was challenged to the race ground,
and began his career with one whom he thought to be a man; but everything was enchanted here,
for he soon discovered that his competitor was a large black bear. The animal outran him, tore
up the ground, and sported before him, and put out its large claws as if to frighten him. He
thought of his little guardian spirit in the belt, and wishing to have the swiftness of the
Kakake, i.e. sparrowhawk, he found himself rising from the ground, and with the speed of this
bird he outwent his rival, and won the race, while the bear came up exhausted and lolling out
his tongue. His friend the Mudjékewis stood ready, with his war-club, at the goal, and the
moment the bear came up, dispatched him. He then turned to the assembly, who had wished his
friend and brother's death, and after reproaching them, he lifted up his club and began to
slay them on every side. They fell in heaps on all sides; but it was plain to be seen, the
moment they fell, that they were not men, but animals--foxes, wolves, tigers, lynxes, and other
kinds, lay thick around the Mudjékewis.

Still the villagers were not satisfied. They thought the trial of frost had not been fairly
accomplished, and wished it repeated. He agreed to repeat it, but being fatigued with the race,
he undid his guardian belt, and laying it under his head, fell asleep. When he awoke, he felt
refreshed, and feeling strong in his own strength, he went forward to renew the trial on the
ice, but quite forgot the belt, nor did it at all occur to him when he awoke, or when he lay
down to repeat the trial. About midnight his limbs became stiff, the blood soon ceased to circulate,
and he was found in the morning a stiff corpse. The victors took him up and carried him to
the village, where the loudest tumult of victorious joy was made, and they cut his body into
a thousand pieces, that each one might eat a piece.

The Mudjékewis bemoaned his fate, but his wife was inconsolable. She lay in a state of partial
distraction, in the lodge. As she lay here, she thought she heard some one groaning. It was
repeated through the night, and in the morning she carefully scanned the place, and running
her fingers through the grass, she discovered the secret belt, on the spot where her husband
had last reposed. "Aubishin!" cried the belt--that is, untie me, or unloose me. Looking carefully,
she found the small seam which inclosed the tiny little animal. It cried out the more earnestly,
"Aubishin!" and when she had carefully ripped the seams, she beheld, to her surprise, a minute,
naked little beast, smaller than the smallest new-born mouse, without any vestige of hair,
except at the tip of its tail; it could crawl a few inches, but reposed from fatigue. It then
went forward again. At each movement it would pupowee, that is to say, shake itself like a
dog, and at each shake it became larger. This it continued until it acquired the strength and
size of a middle sized dog, when it ran off.

The mysterious dog ran to the lodges, about the village, looking for the bones of his friend,
which he carried to a secret place, and as fast as he found them arranged all in their natural
order. At length he had formed all the skeleton complete, except the heel bone of one foot.
It so happened that two sisters were out of camp, according to custom, at the time the body
was cut up, and this heel was sent out to them. The dog hunted every lodge, and being satisfied
that it was not to be found in the camp, he sought it outside of it, and found the lodge of
the two sisters. The younger sister was pleased to see him, and admired and patted the pretty
dog, but the elder sat mumbling the very heel-bone he was seeking, and was surly and sour,
and repelled the dog, although he looked most wistfully up in her face, while she sucked the
bone from one side of her mouth to the other. At last she held it in such a manner that it
made her cheek stick out, when the dog, by a quick spring, seized the cheek, and tore cheek
and bone away and fled.

He now completed the skeleton, and placing himself before it, uttered a hollow, low, long-drawn-out
howl, when the bones came compactly together. He then modulated his howl, when the bones knit
together and became tense. The third howl brought sinews upon them, and the fourth, flesh.
He then turned his head upwards, looking into the sky, and gave a howl, which caused every
one in the village to startle, and the ground itself to tremble, at which the breath entered
into his body, and he first breathed and then arose. "Hy kow!" I have overslept myself, he
exclaimed; "I will be too late for the trial." "Trial!" said Bosh-kwa-dosh, "I told you never
to let me be separate from your body, you have neglected this. You were defeated, and your
frozen body cut into a thousand pieces, and scattered over the village; but my skill has restored
you. Now I will declare myself to you, and show who and what I am!"

He then began to Pupowee, or shake himself, and at every shake, he grew. His body became heavy
and massy, his legs thick and long, with big clumsy ends, or feet. He still shook himself,
and rose and swelled. A long snout grew from his head, and two great shining teeth out of his
mouth. His skin remained as it was, naked, and only a tuft of hair grew on his tail. He rose
up as high as the trees. He was enormous. "I should fill the earth," said he, "were I to exert
my utmost power, and all there is on the earth would not satisfy me to eat. Neither could it
fatten me or do me good. I should want more. The Great Spirit created me to show his power
when there were nothing but animals on the earth. But were all animals as large as myself,
there would not be grass enough for food. But the earth was made for man, and not for beasts.
I give some of those great gifts which I possess. All the animals shall be your food, and you
are no longer to flee before them, and be their sport and food." So saying, he walked off with
heavy steps and with fierce looks, at which all the little animals trembled.

FROM THE ODJIBWA.

At the time when the animals reigned in the earth, they had killed all but a girl, and her
little brother, and these two were living in fear and seclusion. The boy was a perfect pigmy,
and never grew beyond the stature of a small infant, but the girl increased with her years,
so that the labor of providing food and lodging devolved wholly on her. She went out daily
to get wood for their lodge-fire, and took her little brother along that no accident might
happen to him; for he was too little to leave alone. A big bird might have flown away with
him. She made him a bow and arrows, and said to him one day, "I will leave you behind where
I have been chopping--you must hide yourself, and you will soon see the Gitshee-gitshee-gaun-ia-see-ug,
or snow birds, come and pick the worms out of the wood, where I have been chopping" (for it
was in the winter). "Shoot one of them and bring it home." He obeyed her, and tried his best
to kill one, but came home unsuccessful. She told him he must not despair, but try again the
next day. She accordingly left him at the place she got wood, and returned. Towards nightfall,
she heard his little footsteps on the snow, and he came in exultingly, and threw down one of
the birds which he had killed. "My sister," said he, "I wish you to skin it and stretch the
skin, and when I have killed more, I will have a coat made out of them." "But what shall we
do with the body?" said she, for as yet men had not begun to eat animal food, but lived on
vegetables alone. "Cut it in two," he answered, "and season our pottage with one half of it
at a time." She did so. The boy, who was of a very small stature, continued his efforts, and
succeeded in killing ten birds, out of the skins of which his sister made him a little coat.

"Sister," said he one day, "are we all alone in the world? Is there nobody else living?" She
told him that those they feared and who had destroyed their relatives lived in a certain quarter,
and that he must by no means go in that direction. This only served to inflame his curiosity
and raise his ambition, and he soon after took his bow and arrows and went in that direction.
After walking a long time and meeting nothing, he became tired, and lay down on a knoll, where
the sun had melted the snow. He fell fast asleep; and while sleeping, the sun beat so hot upon
him, that it singed and drew up his bird-skin coat, so that when he awoke and stretched himself,
he felt bound in it, as it were. He looked down and saw the damage done to his coat. He flew
into a passion, and upbraided the sun, and vowed vengeance against it. "Do not think you are
too high," said he, "I shall revenge myself."

On coming home, he related his disaster to his sister, and lamented bitterly the spoiling of
his coat. He would not eat. He lay down as one that fasts, and, did not stir, or move his position
for ten days, though she tried all she could to arouse him. At the end of ten days, he turned
over, and then lay ten days on the other side. When he got up, he told his sister to make him
a snare, for he meant to catch the sun. She said she had nothing; but finally recollected a
little piece of dried deer's sinew, that her father had left, which she soon made into a string
suitable for a noose. But the moment she showed it to him, he told her it would not do, and
bid her get something else. She said she had nothing--nothing at all. At last she thought of
her hair, and pulling some of it out of her head, made a string. But he instantly said it would
not answer, and bid her, pettishly, and with authority, make him a noose. She told him there
was nothing to make it of, and went out of the lodge. She said to herself, when she had got
without the lodge, and while she was all alone, "neow obewy indapin." From my body, some sinews
will I take. This she did, and twisting them into a tiny cord, she handed it to her brother.
The moment he saw this curious braid, he was delighted. "This will do," he said, and immediately
put it to his mouth and began pulling it through his lips; and as fast as he drew it changed
it into a red metal cord, which he wound around his body and shoulders, till he had a large
quantity. He then prepared himself, and set out a little after midnight, that he might catch
the sun before it rose. He fixed his snare on a spot just where the sun would strike the land,
as it rose above the earth's disk; and sure enough, he caught the sun, so that it was held
fast in the cord, and did not rise.

The animals who ruled the earth were immediately put into a great commotion. They had no light.
They called a council to debate upon the matter, and to appoint some one to go and cut the
cord--for this was a very hazardous enterprise, as the rays of the sun would burn whoever came
so near to them. At last the dormouse undertook it--for at this time the dormouse was the largest
animal in the world. When it stood up it looked like a mountain. When it got to the place where
the sun was snared, its back began to smoke and burn with the intensity of the heat, and the
top of its carcass was reduced to enormous heaps of ashes. It succeeded, however, in cutting
the cord with its teeth, and freeing the sun, but it was reduced to a very small size, and
has remained so ever since. Men call it the Kug-e-been-gwa-kwa--the blind woman.

A TRADITION OF THE ODJIBWAS.

There was an old hag of a woman living with her daughter-in-law, and son, and a little orphan
boy, whom she was bringing up. When her son-in-law came home from hunting, it was his custom
to bring his wife the moose's lip, the kidney of the bear, or some other choice bits of different
animals. These she would cook crisp, so as to make a sound with her teeth in eating them. This
kind attention of the hunter to his wife at last excited the envy of the old woman. She wished
to have the same luxuries, and in order to get them she finally resolved to make way with her
son's wife. One day, she asked her to leave her infant son to the care of the orphan boy, and
come out and swing with her. She took her to the shore of a lake, where there was a high range
of rocks overhanging the water. Upon the top of this rock, she erected a swing. She then undressed,
and fastened a piece of leather around her body, and commenced swinging, going over the precipice
at every swing. She continued it but a short time, when she told her daughter to do the same.
The daughter obeyed. She undressed, and tying the leather string as she was directed, began
swinging. When the swing had got in full motion and well a-going, so that it went clear beyond
the precipice at every sweep, the old woman slyly cut the cords and let her daughter drop into
the lake. She then put on her daughter's clothing, and thus disguised went home in the dusk
of the evening and counterfeited her appearance and duties. She found the child crying, and
gave it the breast, but it would not draw. The orphan boy asked her where its mother was. She
answered, "She is still swinging." He said, "I shall go and look for her." "No!" said she,
"you must not--what should you go for?" When the husband came in, in the evening, he gave the
coveted morsel to his supposed wife. He missed his mother-in-law, but said nothing. She eagerly
ate the dainty, and tried to keep the child still. The husband looked rather astonished to
see his wife studiously averting her face, and asked her why the child cried so. She said,
she did not know--that it would not draw.

In the mean time, the orphan boy went to the lake shores, and found no one. He mentioned his
suspicions, and while the old woman was out getting wood, he told him all he had heard or seen.
The man then painted his face black, and placed his spear upside down in the earth, and requested
the Great Spirit to send lightning, thunder, and rain, in the hope that the body of his wife
might arise from the water. He then began to fast, and told the boy to take the child and play
on the lake shore.

We must now go back to the swing. After the wife had plunged into the lake, she found herself
taken hold of by a water-tiger, whose tail twisted itself round her body, and drew her to the
bottom. There she found a fine lodge, and all things ready for her reception, and she became
the wife of the water-tiger. Whilst the children were playing along the shore, and the boy
was casting pebbles into the lake, he saw a gull coming from its centre, and flying towards
the shore, and when on shore, the bird immediately assumed the human shape. When he looked
again, he recognized the lost mother. She had a leather belt around her loins, and another
belt of white metal, which was, in reality, the tail of the water-tiger, her husband. She suckled
the babe, and said to the boy--"Come here with him, whenever he cries, and I will nurse him."

The boy carried the child home, and told these things to the father. When the child again cried,
the father went also with the boy to the lake shore, and hid himself in a clump of trees. Soon
the appearance of a gull was seen, with a long shining belt, or chain, and as soon as it came
to the shore, it assumed the mother's shape, and she began to suckle the child. The husband
had brought along his spear, and seeing the shining chain, he boldly struck it and broke the
links apart. He then took his wife and child home, with the orphan boy. When they entered the
lodge, the old woman looked up, but it was a look of despair; she instantly dropped her head.
A rustling was heard in the lodge, and the next moment she leaped up and flew out of the lodge,
and was never heard of more.

MUKAKEE MINDEMOEA,

OR

THE TOAD-WOMAN.

AN ODJIBWA LEGEND.

Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods, with
nobody near her but her little dog, for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning
at her door. She felt very anxious to know who it was that supplied her, and watching one morning,
very early, she saw a handsome young man deposit the meat. After his being seen by her, he
became her husband, and she had a son by him. One day, not long after this, the man did not
return at evening, as usual, from hunting. She waited till late at night, but all in vain.
Next day she swung her baby to sleep in its tikenágun, or cradle, and then said to her dog:
"Take care of your brother whilst I am gone, and when he cries, halloo for me." The cradle
was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and decorations were of the same costly
material. After a short time, the woman heard the cry of her faithful dog, and running home
as fast as she could, she found her child gone and the dog too. But on looking round, she saw
pieces of the wampum of her child's cradle bit off by the dog, who strove to retain the child
and prevent his being carried off by an old woman called Mukakee Mindemoea, or the Toad-Woman.
The mother followed at full speed, and occasionally came to lodges inhabited by old women,
who told her at what time the thief had passed; they also gave her shoes, that she might follow
on. There were a number of these old women, who seemed as if they were all prophetesses. Each
of them would say to her, that when she arrived in pursuit of her stolen child at the next
lodge, she must set the toes of the moccasins they had loaned her pointing homewards, and they
would return of themselves. She would get others from her entertainers further on, who would
also give her directions how to proceed to recover her son. She thus followed in the pursuit,
from valley to valley, and stream to stream, for months and years; when she came, at length,
to the lodge of the last of the friendly old Nocoes, or grandmothers, as they were called,
who gave her final instructions how to proceed. She told her she was near the place where her
son was, and directed her to build a lodge of shin-goob, or cedar boughs, near the old Toad-Woman's
lodge, and to make a little bark dish and squeeze her milk into it. "Then," she said, "your
first child (meaning the dog) will come and find you out." She did accordingly, and in a short
time she heard her son, now grown, going out to hunt, with his dog, calling out to him, "Monedo
Pewaubik (that is, Steel or Spirit Iron), Twee! Twee!" She then set ready the dish and filled
it with her milk. The dog soon scented it and came into the lodge; she placed it before him.
"See, my child," said she, addressing him, "the food you used to have from me, your mother."
The dog went and told his young master that he had found his real mother; and informed him
that the old woman, whom he called his mother, was not his mother, that she had stolen him
when an infant in his cradle, and that he had himself followed her in hopes of getting him
back. The young man and his dog then went on their hunting excursion, and brought back a great
quantity of meat of all kinds. He said to his pretended mother, as he laid it down, "Send some
to the stranger that has arrived lately." The old hag answered, "No! why should I send to her--the
Sheegowish."[85] He insisted; and she at last consented to take something, throwing it in at
the door, with the remark, "My son gives you, or feeds you this." But it was of such on offensive
nature that she threw it immediately out after her.

After this the young man paid the stranger a visit, at her lodge of cedar boughs, and partook
of her dish of milk. She then told him she was his real mother, and that he had been stolen
away from her by the detestable Toad-Woman, who was a witch. He was not quite convinced. She
said to him, "Feign yourself sick, when you go home, and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails
you, say that you want to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful
brother, the dog, bit a piece off to try and detain you, which I picked up, as I followed in
your track. They were real wampum, white and blue, shining and beautiful." She then showed
him the pieces. He went home and did as his real mother bid him. "Mother," said he, "why am
I so different in my looks from the rest of your children?" "Oh," said she, "it was a very
bright clear blue sky when you were born; that is the reason." When the Toad-Woman saw he was
ill, she asked what she could do for him. He said nothing would do him good, but the sight
of his cradle. She ran immediately and got a cedar cradle; but he said "That is not my cradle."
She went and got one of her own children's cradles (for she had four), but he turned his head
and said, "That is not mine." She then produced the real cradle, and he saw it was the same,
in substance, with the pieces the other had shown him; and he was convinced, for he could even
see the marks of the dog's teeth upon it.

He soon got well, and went out hunting, and killed a fat bear. He and his dog-brother then
stripped a tall pine of all its branches, and stuck the carcass on the top, taking the usual
sign of his having killed an animal--the tongue. He told the Toad-Woman where he had left it,
saying, "It is very far, even to the end of the earth." She answered, "It is not so far but
I can get it;" so off she set. As soon as she was gone, the young man and his dog killed the
Toad-Woman's children, and staked them on each side of the door, with a piece of fat in their
mouths, and then went to his real mother and hastened her departure with them. The Toad-Woman
spent a long time in finding the bear, and had much ado in climbing the tree to get down the
carcass. As she got near home, she saw the children looking out, apparently, with the fat in
their mouths, and was angry at them, saying, "Why do you destroy the pomatum of your brother?"
But her fury was great indeed, when she saw they were killed and impaled. She ran after the
fugitives as fast as she could, and was near overtaking them, when the young man said, "We
are pressed hard, but let this stay her progress," throwing his fire steel behind him, which
caused the Toad-Woman to slip and fall repeatedly. But still she pursued and gained on them,
when he threw behind him his flint, which again retarded her, for it made her slip and stumble,
so that her knees were bleeding; but she continued to follow on, and was gaining ground, when
the young man said, "Let the Oshau shaw go min un (snake berry) spring up to detain her," and
immediately these berries spread like scarlet all over the path for a long distance, which
she could not avoid stooping down to pick and eat. Still she went on, and was again advancing
on them, when the young man at last said to the dog, "Brother, chew her into mummy, for she
plagues us." So the dog, turning round, seized her and tore her to pieces, and they escaped.

      [85] A term compounded from sheegowiss, a widow, and mowigh,
      something nasty.

ERONENIERA,

OR

AN INDIAN VISIT TO THE GREAT SPIRIT.[86]

AN ALGONQUIN LEGEND.

A Delaware Indian, called Eroneniera, anxious to know the Master of Life, resolved, without
mentioning his design to any one, to undertake a journey to Paradise, which he knew to be God's
residence. But, to succeed in his project, it was necessary for him to know the way to the
celestial regions. Not knowing any person who, having been there himself, might aid him in
finding the road, he commenced juggling, in the hope of drawing a good augury from his dream.

The Indian, in his dream, imagined that he had only to commence his journey, and that a continued
walk would take him to the celestial abode. The next morning very early, he equipped himself
as a hunter, taking a gun, powder-horn, ammunition, and a boiler to cook his provisions. The
first part of his journey was pretty favorable; he walked a long time without being discouraged,
having always a firm conviction that he should attain his aim. Eight days had already elapsed
without his meeting with any one to oppose his desire. On the evening of the eighth day, at
sunset, he stopped as usual on the bank of a brook, at the entrance of a little prairie, a
place which he thought favorable for his night's encampment. As he was preparing his lodging,
he perceived at the other end of the prairie three very wide and well-beaten paths; he thought
this somewhat singular; he, however, continued to prepare his wigwam, that he might shelter
himself from the weather. He also lighted a fire. While cooking, he found that, the darker
it grew, the more distinct were those paths. This surprised, nay, even frightened him; he hesitated
a few moments. Was it better for him to remain in his camp, or seek another at some distance?
While in this incertitude, he remembered his juggling, or rather his dream. He thought that
his only aim in undertaking his journey was to see the Master of Life. This restored him to
his senses. He thought it probable that one of those three roads led to the place which he
wished to visit. He therefore resolved upon remaining in his camp until the morrow, when he
would, at random, take one of them. His curiosity, however, scarcely allowed him time to take
his meal; he left his encampment and fire, and took the widest of the paths. He followed it
until the middle of the day without seeing anything to impede his progress; but, as he was
resting a little to take breath, he suddenly perceived a large fire coming from under ground.
It excited his curiosity; he went towards it to see what it might be; but, as the fire appeared
to increase as he drew nearer, he was so overcome with fear, that he turned back and took the
widest of the other two paths. Having followed it for the same space of time as he had the
first, he perceived a similar spectacle. His fright, which had been lulled by the change of
road, awoke him, and he was obliged to take the third path, in which he walked a whole day
without seeing anything. All at once, a mountain of a marvellous whiteness burst upon his sight.
This filled him with astonishment; nevertheless, he took courage and advanced to examine it.
Having arrived at the foot, he saw no signs of a road. He became very sad, not knowing how
to continue his journey. In this conjuncture, he looked on all sides and perceived a female
seated upon the mountain; her beauty was dazzling, and the whiteness of her garments surpassed
that of snow. The woman said to him in his own language, "You appear surprised to find no longer
a path to reach your wishes. I know that you have for a long time longed to see and speak to
the Master of Life; and that you have undertaken this journey purposely to see him. The way
which leads to his abode is upon this mountain. To ascend it, you must undress yourself completely,
and leave all your accoutrements and clothing at the foot. No person shall injure them. You
will then go and wash yourself in the river which I am now showing you, and afterward ascend
the mountain."

The Indian obeyed punctually the woman's words; but one difficulty remained. How could he arrive
at the top of the mountain, which was steep, without a path, and as smooth as glass? He asked
the woman how he was to accomplish it. She replied, that if he really wished to see the Master
of Life, he must, in mounting, only use his left hand and foot. This appeared almost impossible
to the Indian. Encouraged, however, by the female, he commenced ascending, and succeeded after
much trouble. When at the top, he was astonished to see no person, the woman having disappeared.
He found himself alone, and without a guide. Three unknown villages were in sight; they were
constructed on a different plan from his own, much handsomer, and more regular. After a few
moments' reflection, he took his way towards the handsomest. When about half way from the top
of the mountain, he recollected that he was naked, and was afraid to proceed; but a voice told
him to advance, and have no apprehensions; that, as he had washed himself, he might walk in
confidence. He proceeded without hesitation to a place which appeared to be the gate of the
village, and stopped until some one came to open it. While he was considering the exterior
of the village, the gate opened, and the Indian saw coming towards him a handsome man dressed
all in white, who took him by the hand, and said he was going to satisfy his wishes by leading
him to the presence of the Master of Life.

The Indian suffered himself to be conducted, and they arrived at a place of unequalled beauty.
The Indian was lost in admiration. He there saw the Master of Life, who took him by the hand,
and gave him for a seat a hat bordered with gold. The Indian, afraid of spoiling the hat, hesitated
to sit down; but, being again ordered to do so, he obeyed without reply.

The Indian being seated, God said to him, "I am the Master of Life, whom thou wishest to see,
and to whom thou wishest to speak. Listen to that which I will tell thee for thyself and for
all the Indians. I am the Maker of Heaven and earth, the trees, lakes, rivers, men, and all
that thou seest or hast seen on the earth or in the heavens; and because I love you, you must
do my will; you must also avoid that which I hate; I hate you to drink as you do, until you
lose your reason; I wish you not to fight one another; you take two wives, or run after other
people's wives; you do wrong; I hate such conduct; you should have but one wife, and keep her
until death. When you go to war, you juggle, you sing the medicine song, thinking you speak
to me; you deceive yourselves; it is to the Manito that you speak; he is a wicked spirit who
induces you to evil, and for want of knowing me, you listen to him.

"The land on which you are, I have made for you, not for others: wherefore do you suffer the
whites to dwell upon your lands? Can you not do without them? I know that those whom you call
the children of your great Father supply your wants. But, were you not wicked as you are, you
would not need them. You might live as you did before you knew them. Before those whom you
call your brothers had arrived, did not your bow and arrow maintain you? You needed neither
gun, powder, nor any other object. The flesh of animals was your food, their skins your raiment.
But when I saw you inclined to evil, I removed the animals into the depths of the forests,
that you might depend on your brothers for your necessaries for your clothing. Again become
good and do my will, and I will send animals for your sustenance. I do not, however, forbid
suffering among you your Father's children; I love them, they know me, they pray to me; I supply
their own wants, and give them that which they bring to you. Not so with those who are come
to trouble your possessions. Drive them away; wage war against them. I love them not. They
know me not. They are my enemies, they are your brothers' enemies. Send them back to the lands
I have made for them. Let them remain there.

"Here is a written prayer which I give thee; learn it by heart, and teach it to all the Indians
and children." (The Indian, observing here that he could not read, the Master of Life told
him that, on his return upon earth, he should give it to the chief of his village, who would
read it, and also teach it to him, as also to all the Indians). "It must be repeated," said
the Master of Life, "morning and evening. Do all that I have told thee, and announce it to
all the Indians as coming from the Master of Life. Let them drink but one draught, or two at
most, in one day. Let them have but one wife, and discontinue running after other people's
wives and daughters. Let them not fight one another. Let them not sing the medicine song, for
in singing the medicine song they speak to the evil spirit. Drive from your lands," added the
Master of Life, "those dogs in red clothing; they are only an injury to you. When you want
anything, apply to me, as your brothers do, and I will give to both. Do not sell to your brothers
that which I have placed on the earth as food. In short, become good, and you shall want nothing.
When you meet one another, bow, and give one another the ... hand of the heart. Above all,
I command thee to repeat, morning and evening, the prayer which I have given thee."

The Indian promised to do the will of the Master of Life, and also to recommend it strongly
to the Indians; adding that the Master of Life should be satisfied with them.

His conductor then came, and leading him to the foot of the mountain, told him to take his
garments and return to his village; which was immediately done by the Indian.

His return much surprised the inhabitants of the village, who did not know what had become
of him. They asked him whence he came; but, as he had been enjoined to speak to no one until
he saw the chief of the village, he motioned to them with his hand that he came from above.
Having entered the village, he went immediately to the chief's wigwam, and delivered to him
the prayer and laws intrusted to his care by the Master of Life.

      [86] Pontiac told this story to the assembled Indians in 1763, to
      enlist them in his plan to resist the transfer of the country to
      the English authority, on the fall of the French power in the
      Canadas.

THE SIX HAWKS,

OR

BROKEN WING.

AN ALLEGORY OF FRATERNAL AFFECTION.

There were six young falcons living in a nest, all but one of whom were still unable to fly,
when it so happened that both the parent birds were shot by the hunters in one day. The young
brood waited with impatience for their return; but night came, and they were left without parents
and without food. Meeji-geeg-wona, or the Gray Eagle, the eldest, and the only one whose feathers
had become stout enough to enable him to leave the nest, assumed the duty of stilling their
cries and providing them with food, in which he was very successful. But, after a short time
had passed, he, by an unlucky mischance, got one of his wings broken in pouncing upon a swan.
This was the more unlucky, because the season had arrived when they were soon to go off to
a southern climate to pass the winter, and they were only waiting to become a little stouter
and more expert for the journey. Finding that he did not return, they resolved to go in search
of him, and found him sorely wounded and unable to fly.

"Brothers," he said, "an accident has befallen me, but let not this prevent your going to a
warmer climate. Winter is rapidly approaching, and you cannot remain here. It is better that
I alone should die than for you all to suffer miserably on my account." "No! no!" they replied,
with one voice, "we will not forsake you; we will share your sufferings; we will abandon our
journey, and take care of you, as you did of us, before we were able to take care of ourselves.
If the climate kills you, it shall kill us. Do you think we can so soon forget your brotherly
care, which has surpassed a father's and even a mother's kindness? Whether you live or die,
we will live or die with you."

They sought out a hollow tree to winter in, and contrived to carry their wounded nestmate there;
and, before the rigors of winter set in, they had stored up food enough to carry them through
its severities. To make it last the better, two of the number went off south, leaving the other
three to watch over, feed, and protect the wounded bird. Meeji-geeg-wona in due time recovered
from his wound, and he repaid their kindness by giving them such advice and instruction in
the art of hunting as his experience had qualified him to impart. As spring advanced, they
began to venture out of their hiding-place, and were all successful in getting food to eke
out their winter's stock, except the youngest, who was called Peepi-geewi-zains, or the Pigeon
Hawk. Being small and foolish, flying hither and yon, he always came back without anything.
At last the Gray Eagle spoke to him, and demanded the cause of his ill luck. "It is not my
smallness or weakness of body," said he, "that prevents my bringing home flesh as well as my
brothers. I kill ducks and other birds every time I go out; but, just as I get to the woods,
a large Ko-ko-ko-ho[87] robs me of my prey." "Well! don't despair, brother," said Meeji-geeg-wona.
"I now feel my strength perfectly recovered, and I will go out with you to-morrow," for he
was the most courageous and warlike of them all.

Next day they went forth in company, the elder seating himself near the lake. Peepi-geewi-zains
started out, and soon pounced upon a duck.

"Well done!" thought his brother, who saw his success; but, just as he was getting to land
with his prize, up came a large white owl from a tree, where he had been watching, and laid
claim to it. He was about wresting it from him, when Meeji-geeg-wona came up, and, fixing his
talons in both sides of the owl, flew home with him.

The little pigeon hawk followed him closely, and was rejoiced and happy to think he had brought
home something at last. He then flew in the owl's face, and wanted to tear out his eyes, and
vented his passion in abundance of reproachful terms. "Softly," said the Gray Eagle; "do not
be in such a passion, or exhibit so revengeful a disposition; for this will be a lesson to
him not to tyrannize over any one who is weaker than himself for the future." So, after giving
him good advice, and telling him what kind of herbs would cure his wounds, they let the owl go.

While this act was taking place, and before the liberated owl had yet got out of view, two
visitors appeared at the hollow tree. They were the two nestmates, who had just returned from
the south after passing the winter there, and they were thus all happily reunited, and each
one soon chose a mate and flew off to the woods. Spring had now revisited the north. The cold
winds had ceased, the ice had melted, the streams were open, and the forest began rapidly to
put on its vernal hue. "But it is in vain," said the old man who related this story, "it is
in vain that spring returns, if we are not thankful to the Master of Life who has preserved
us through the winter. Nor does that man answer the end for which he was made who does not
show a kind and charitable feeling to all who are in want or sickness, especially to his blood
relations. These six birds only represent one of our impoverished northern families of children,
who had been deprived of both their parents and the aid of their elder brother nearly at the
same time."

      [87] Owl.

WEENG,

THE SPIRIT OF SLEEP.

Sleep is personified by the Odjibwas under the name of Weeng.[88] The power of the Indian Morpheus
is executed by a peculiar class of gnome-like beings, called Weengs. These subordinate creations,
although invisible to the human eye, are each armed with a tiny war-club, or puggamaugun, with
which they nimbly climb up the forehead, and knock the drowsy person on the head; on which
sleepiness is immediately produced. If the first blow is insufficient, another is given, until
the eyelids close, and a sound sleep is produced. It is the constant duty of these little agents
to put every one to sleep whom they encounter--men, women, and children. And they are found
secreted around the bed, or on small protuberances of the bark of the Indian lodges. They hide
themselves in the Gushkeepitau-gun, or smoking pouch of the hunter, and when he sits down to
light his pipe in the woods, are ready to fly out and exert their sleep-compelling power. If
they succeed, the game is suffered to pass, and the hunter obliged to return to his lodge without
a reward.

In general, however, they are represented to possess friendly dispositions, seeking constantly
to restore vigor and elasticity to the exhausted body. But being without judgment, their power
is sometimes exerted at the hazard of reputation, or even life. Sleep may be induced in a person
carelessly floating in his canoe, above a fall; or in a war party, on the borders of an enemy's
country; or in a female, without the protection of the lodge circle. Although their peculiar
season of action is in the night, they are also alert during the day.

While the forms of these gnomes are believed to be those of ininees, little or fairy men, the
figure of Weeng himself is unknown, and it is not certain that he has ever been seen. Most
of what is known on this subject, is derived from Iagoo, who related, that going out one day
with his dogs to hunt, he passed through a wide range of thicket, where he lost his dogs. He
became much alarmed, for they were faithful animals, and he was greatly attached to them. He
called out, and made every exertion to recover them in vain. At length he came to a spot where
he found them asleep, having incautiously ran near the residence of Weeng. After great exertions
he aroused them, but not without having felt the power of somnolency himself. As he cast his
eyes up from the place where the dogs were lying, he saw the Spirit of Sleep sitting upon the
branch of a tree. He was in the shape of a giant insect, or monetos, with many wings from his
back, which made a low deep murmuring sound, like distant falling water. But Iagoo himself,
being a very great liar and braggart, but little credit was given to his narration.

Weeng is not only the dispenser of sleep, but, it seems, he is also the author of dulness,
which renders the word susceptible of an ironical use. If an orator fails, he is said to be
struck by Weeng. If a warrior lingers, he has ventured too near the sleepy god. If children
begin to nod or yawn, the Indian mother looks up smilingly, and says, "They have been struck
by Weeng," and puts them to bed.

      [88] This word has the sound of g hard, with a peculiarity as
      if followed by k.

ADDIK KUM MAIG,[89]

OR

THE ORIGIN OF THE WHITE FISH.

A long time ago, there lived a famous hunter in a remote part of the north. He had a handsome
wife and two sons, who were left in the lodge every day, while he went out in quest of the
animals, upon whose flesh they subsisted. Game was very abundant in those days, and his exertions
in the chase were well rewarded. The skins of animals furnished them with clothing, and their
flesh with food. They lived a long distance from any other lodge, and very seldom saw any one.
The two sons were still too young to follow their father to the chase, and usually diverted
themselves within a short distance of the lodge. They noticed that a young man visited the
lodge during their father's absence, and these visits were frequently repeated. At length the
elder of the two said to his mother:

"My mother, who is this tall young man that comes here so often during our father's absence?
Does he wish to see him? Shall I tell him when he comes back this evening?" "Bad boy," said
the mother, pettishly, "mind your bow and arrows, and do not be afraid to enter the forest
in search of birds and squirrels, with your little brother. It is not manly to be ever about
the lodge. Nor will you become a warrior if you tell all the little things you see and hear
to your father. Say not a word to him on the subject." The boys obeyed, but as they grew older,
and still saw the visits of this mysterious stranger, they resolved to speak again to their
mother, and told her that they meant to inform their father of all they had observed, for they
frequently saw this young man passing through the woods, and he did not walk in the path, nor
did he carry anything to eat. If he had any message to deliver, they had observed that messages
were always addressed to the men, and not to the women. At this, the mother flew into a rage.
"I will kill you," said she, "if you speak of it." They were again intimidated to hold their
peace. But observing the continuance of an improper intercourse, kept up by stealth, as it
were, they resolved at last to disclose the whole matter to their father. They did so. The
result was such as might have been anticipated. The father, being satisfied of the infidelity
of his wife, watched a suitable occasion, when she was separated from the children, that they
might not have their feelings excited, and with a single blow of his war-club dispatched her.
He then buried her under the ashes of his fire, took down the lodge, and removed, with his
two sons, to a distant position.

But the spirit of the woman haunted the children, who were now grown up to the estate of young
men. She appeared to them as they returned from hunting in the evening. They were also terrified
in their dreams, which they attributed to her. She harassed their imaginations wherever they
went. Life became a scene of perpetual terrors. They resolved, together with their father,
to leave the country, and commenced a journey toward the south. After travelling many days
along the shores of Lake Superior, they passed around a high promontory of rock where a large
river issued out of the lake, and soon after came to a place called Pauwateeg.[90]

They had no sooner come in sight of these falls, than they beheld the skull of the woman rolling
along the beach. They were in the utmost fear, and knew not how to elude her. At this moment
one of them looked out, and saw a stately crane sitting on a rock in the middle of the rapids.
They called out to the bird, "See, grandfather, we are persecuted by a spirit. Come and take
us across the falls, so that we may escape her."

This crane was a bird of extraordinary size and great age. When first descried by the two sons,
he sat in a state of stupor, in the midst of the most violent eddies. When he heard himself
addressed, he stretched forth his neck with great deliberation, and lifting himself by his
wings, flew across to their assistance. "Be careful," said the crane, "that you do not touch
the back part of my head. It is sore, and should you press against it, I shall not be able
to avoid throwing you both into the rapids." They were, however, attentive on this point, and
were safely landed on the south shore of the river.

The crane then resumed his former position in the rapids. But the skull now cried out, "Come,
my grandfather, and carry me over, for I have lost my children, and am sorely distressed."
The aged bird flew to her assistance. He carefully repeated the injunction that she must by
no means touch the back part of his head, which had been hurt, and was not yet healed. She
promised to obey, but soon felt a curiosity to know where the head of her carrier had been
hurt, and how so aged a bird could have received so bad a wound. She thought it strange, and
before they were half way over the rapids, could not resist the inclination she felt to touch
the affected part. Instantly the crane threw her into the rapids. "There," said he, "you have
been of no use during your life, you shall now be changed into something for the benefit of
your people, and it shall be called Addik Kum Maig." As the skull floated from rock to rock,
the brains were strewed in the water, in a form resembling roes, which soon assumed the shape
of a new species of fish, possessing a whiteness of color, and peculiar flavor, which have
caused it, ever since, to be in great repute with the Indians.

The family of this man, in gratitude for their deliverance, adopted the crane as their totem,
or ancestral mark; and this continues to be the distinguishing tribal sign of the band to this day.

      [89] This term appears to be a derivative from Addik, the
      reindeer, and the plural form of the generic Gumee, water,
      implying deer of the water.

      [90] Saut Ste. Marie.

BOKWEWA,

OR

THE HUMPBACK MAGICIAN.

ODJIBWA.

Bokwewa and his brother lived in a secluded part of the country. They were considered as Manitoes,
who had assumed mortal shapes. Bokwewa was the most gifted in supernatural endowments, although
he was deformed in person. His brother partook more of the nature of the present race of beings.
They lived retired from the world, and undisturbed by its cares, and passed their time in contentment
and happiness.

Bokwewa,[91] owing to his deformity, was very domestic in his habits, and gave his attention
to household affairs. He instructed his brother in the manner of pursuing game, and made him
acquainted with all the accomplishments of a sagacious and expert hunter. His brother possessed
a fine form, and an active and robust constitution; and felt a disposition to show himself
off among men. He was restive in his seclusion, and showed a fondness for visiting remote places.

One day he told his brother that he was going to leave him; that he wished to visit the habitations
of men and procure a wife. Bokwewa objected to his going; but his brother overruled all that
he said, and he finally departed on his travels. He travelled a long time. At length he fell
in with the footsteps of men. They were moving by encampments, for he saw several places where
they had encamped. It was in the winter. He came to a place where one of their number had died.
They had placed the corpse on a scaffold. He went to it and took it down. He saw that it was
the corpse of a beautiful young woman. "She shall be my wife!" he exclaimed.

He took her up, and placing her on his back, returned to his brother. "Brother," he said, "cannot
you restore her to life? Oh, do me that favor!" Bokwewa said he would try. He performed numerous
ceremonies, and at last succeeded in restoring her to life. They lived very happily for some
time. Bokwewa was extremely kind to his brother, and did everything to render his life happy.
Being deformed and crippled, he always remained at home, while his brother went out to hunt.
And it was by following his directions, which were those of a skilful hunter, that he always
succeeded in returning with a good store of meat.

One day he had gone out as usual, and Bokwewa was sitting in his lodge, on the opposite side
of his brother's wife, when a tall, fine young man entered, and immediately took the woman
by the hand and drew her to the door. She resisted and called on Bokwewa, who jumped up to
her assistance. But their joint resistance was unavailing; the man succeeded in carrying her
away. In the scuffle, Bokwewa had his hump back much bruised on the stones near the door. He
crawled into the lodge and wept very sorely, for he knew that it was a powerful Manito who
had taken the woman.

When his brother returned, he related all to him exactly as it happened. He would not taste
food for several days. Sometimes he would fall to weeping for a long time, and appeared almost
beside himself. At last he said he would go in search of her. Bokwewa tried to dissuade him
from it, but he insisted.

"Well!" said he, "since you are bent on going, listen to my advice. You will have to go south.
It is a long distance to the residence of your captive wife, and there are so many charms and
temptations in the way, I am afraid you will be led astray by them, and forget your errand.
For the people whom you will see in that country do nothing but amuse themselves. They are
very idle, gay, and effeminate, and I am fearful they will lead you astray. Your journey is
beset with difficulties. I will mention one or two things, which you must be on your guard
against. In the course of your journey, you will come to a large grape-vine lying across your
way. You must not even taste its fruit, for it is poisonous. Step over it. It is a snake. You
will next come to something that looks like bear's fat, transparent and tremulous. Don't taste
it, or you will be overcome by the pleasures of those people. It is frog's eggs. These are
snares laid by the way for you."

He said he would follow the advice, and bid farewell to his brother. After travelling a long
time, he came to the enchanted grape-vine. It looked so tempting, he forgot his brother's advice
and tasted the fruit. He went on till he came to the frog's eggs. The substance so much resembled
bear's fat that he tasted it. He still went on. At length he came to a very extensive plain.
As he emerged from the forest the sun was setting, and cast its scarlet and golden shades over
all the plain. The air was perfectly calm, and the whole prospect had the air of an enchanted
land. The most inviting fruits and flowers spread out before the eye. At a distance he beheld
a large village, filled with people without number, and as he drew near he saw women beating
corn in silver mortars. When they saw him approaching, they cried out, "Bokwewa's brother has
come to see us." Throngs of men and women, gayly dressed, came out to meet him. He was soon
overcome by their flatteries and pleasures, and he was not long afterward seen beating corn
with their women (the strongest proof of effeminacy), although his wife, for whom he had mourned
so much, was in that Indian metropolis.

Meantime, Bokwewa waited patiently for the return of his brother. At length, after the lapse
of several years, he set out in search of him, and arrived in safety among the luxuriant people
of the South. He met with the same allurements on the road, and the same flattering reception
that his brother did. But he was above all temptations. The pleasures he saw had no other effect
upon him than to make him regret the weakness of mind of those who were led away by them. He
shed tears of pity to see that his brother had laid aside the arms of a hunter, and was seen
beating corn with the women.

He ascertained where his brother's wife remained. After deliberating some time, he went to
the river where she usually came to draw water. He there changed himself into one of those
hair-snakes which are sometimes seen in running water. When she came down, he spoke to her,
saying, "Take me up; I am Bokwewa." She then scooped him out and went home. In a short time
the Manito who had taken her away asked her for water to drink. The lodge in which they lived
was partitioned. He occupied a secret place, and was never seen by any one but the woman. She
handed him the water containing the hair-snake, which he drank, with the snake, and soon after
was a dead Manito.

Bokwewa then resumed his former shape. He went to his brother, and used every means to reclaim
him. But he would not listen. He was so much taken up with the pleasures and dissipations into
which he had fallen, that he refused to give them up, although Bokwewa, with tears, tried to
convince him of his foolishness, and to show him that those pleasures could not endure for
a long time. Finding that he was past reclaiming, Bokwewa left him, and disappeared forever.

      [91] i.e., the sudden stopping of a voice.

AGGODAGAUDA AND HIS DAUGHTER,

OR

THE MAN WITH HIS LEG TIED UP.

The prairie and forest tribes were once at war, and it required the keenest eyes to keep out
of the way of danger. Aggodagauda lived on the borders, in the forests, but he was in a by-place
not easy to find. He was a successful hunter and fisher, although he had, by some mischance,
lost the use of one of his legs. So he had it tied, and looped up, and got over the ground
by hopping.

Use had given him great power in the sound leg, and he could hop to a distance, which was surprising.
There was nobody in the country who could outgo him on a hunt. Even Paup-Puk-keewiss, in his
best days, could hardly excel him. But he had a great enemy in the chief or king of the buffaloes,
who frequently passed over the plains with the force of a tempest. It was a peculiarity of
Aggodagauda, that he had an only child, a daughter, who was very beautiful, whom it was the
aim of this enemy to carry off, and he had to exert his skill to guard her from the inroad
of his great and wily opponent. To protect her the better, he had built a log house, and it
was only on the roof of this that he could permit his daughter to take the open air, and disport
herself. Now her hair was so long, that when she untied it, the raven locks hung down to the
ground.

One fine morning, the father had prepared himself to go out a fishing, but before leaving the
lodge put her on her guard against their arch enemy. "The sun shines," said he, "and the buffalo
chief will be apt to move this way before the sun gets to the middle point, and you must be
careful not to pass out of the house, for there is no knowing but he is always narrowly watching.
If you go out, at all, let it be on the roof, and even there keep a sharp lookout, lest he
sweep by and catch you with his long horns." With this advice he left his lodge. But he had
scarcely got seated in his canoe, on his favorite fishing-ground, when his ear caught opprobrious
strains from his enemy. He listened again, and the sound was now clearer than before--

    "Aggodagauda--one legged man,
    Man with his leg tied up;
    What is he but a rapakena,[92]
    Hipped, and legged?"

He immediately paddled his canoe ashore, and took his way home--hopping a hundred rods at a
leap. But when he reached his house his daughter was gone. She had gone out on the top of the
house, and sat combing her long and beautiful hair, on the eaves of the lodge, when the buffalo
king, coming suddenly by, caught her glossy hair, and winding it about his horns, tossed her
on to his shoulders, swept off in an opposite direction to his village. He was followed by
his whole troop, who made the plains shake under their tread. They soon reached, and dashed
across a river, and pursued their course to the chief's village, where she was received by
all with great attention. His other wives did all they could to put the lodge in order, and
the buffalo king himself was unremitting in his kindness and attention. He took down from the
walls his pibbegwun, and began to play the softest strains, to please her ear. Ever and anon,
as the chorus paused, could be heard the words--

    "Ne ne mo sha makow,
    Aghi saw ge naun.
    My sweetheart--my bosom is true,
    You only--it is you that I love."

They brought her cold water, in bark dishes from the spring. They set before her the choicest
food. The king handed her nuts from the pecan-tree, then he went out hunting to get her the
finest meats and water fowl. But she remained pensive, and sat fasting in her lodge day after
day, and gave him no hopes of forgiveness for his treachery.

In the mean time, Aggodagauda came home, and finding his daughter had been stolen, determined
to get her back. For this purpose he immediately set out. He could easily track the king, until
he came to the banks of the river, and saw that he had plunged in and swam over. But there
had been a frosty night or two since, and the water was covered with thin ice, so that he could
not walk on it. He determined to encamp till it became solid, and then crossed over and pursued
the trail. As he went along he saw branches broken off and strewed behind, for these had been
purposely cast along by the daughter, that the way might be found. And the manner in which
she had accomplished it was this. Her hair was all untied when she was caught up, and being
very long, it caught on the branches as they darted along, and it was these twigs that she
broke off for signs to her father. When he came to the king's lodge it was evening. Carefully
approaching it, he peeped through the sides and saw his daughter sitting disconsolately. She
immediately caught his eye, and knowing that it was her father come for her, she all at once
appeared to relent in her heart, and asking for the dipper, said to the king, "I will go and
get you a drink of water." This token of submission delighted him, and he waited with impatience
for her return. At last he went out with his followers, but nothing could be seen or heard
of the captive daughter. They sallied out in the plains, but had not gone far, by the light
of the moon, when a party of hunters, headed by the father-in-law of Aggodagauda, set up their
yells in their rear, and a shower of arrows was poured in upon them. Many of their numbers
fell, but the king being stronger and swifter than the rest, fled toward the west, and never
again appeared in that part of the country.

While all this was passing, Aggodagauda, who had met his daughter the moment she came out of
the lodge, and being helped by his guardian spirit, took her on his shoulders and hopped off,
a hundred steps in one, till he reached the stream, crossed it, and brought back his daughter
in triumph to his lodge.

      [92] Grasshopper.

IOSCO;

OR,

THE PRAIRIE BOYS' VISIT TO THE SUN AND MOON.

AN OTTAWA LEGEND.

One pleasant morning, five young men and a boy about ten years of age, called Ioscoda, went
out a shooting with their bows and arrows. They left their lodges with the first appearance
of daylight, and having passed through a long reach of woods, had ascended a lofty eminence
before the sun arose. While standing there in a group, the sun suddenly burst forth in all
its effulgence. The air was so clear, that it appeared to be at no great distance. "How very
near it is," they all said. "It cannot be far," said the eldest, "and if you will accompany
me, we will see if we cannot reach it." A loud assent burst from every lip. Even the boy, Ioscoda,
said he would go. They told him he was too young; but he replied, "If you do not permit me
to go with you, I will mention your design to each of your parents." They then said to him,
"You shall also go with us, so be quiet."

They then fell upon the following arrangement. It was resolved that each one should obtain
from his parents as many pairs of moccasins as he could, and also new clothing of leather.
They fixed on a spot where they would conceal all their articles, until they were ready to
start on their journey, and which would serve, in the mean time, as a place of rendezvous,
where they might secretly meet and consult. This being arranged, they returned home.

A long time passed before they could put their plan into execution. But they kept it a profound
secret, even to the boy. They frequently met at the appointed place, and discussed the subject.
At length everything was in readiness, and they decided on a day to set out. That morning the
boy shed tears for a pair of new leather leggings. "Don't you see," said he to his parents,
"how my companions are dressed?" This appeal to their pride and envy prevailed. He obtained
the leggings. Artifices were also resorted to by the others, under the plea of going out on
a special hunt. They said to one another, but in a tone that they might be overheard, "We will
see who will bring in the most game." They went out in different directions, but soon met at
the appointed place, where they had hid the articles for their journey, with as many arrows
as they had time to make. Each one took something on his back, and they began their march.
They travelled day after day, through a thick forest, but the sun was always at the same distance.
"We must," said they, "travel toward Waubunong,[93] and we shall get to the object, some time
or other." No one was discouraged, although winter overtook them. They built a lodge and hunted,
till they obtained as much dried meat as they could carry, and then continued on. This they
did several times; season followed season. More than one winter overtook them. Yet none of
them became discouraged, or expressed dissatisfaction.

One day the travellers came to the banks of a river, whose waters ran toward Waubunong. They
followed it down many days. As they were walking, one day, they came to rising grounds, from
which they saw something white or clear through the trees. They encamped on this elevation.
Next morning they came, suddenly, in view of an immense body of water. No land could be seen
as far as the eye could reach. One or two of them lay down on the beach to drink. As soon as
they got the water in their mouths, they spit it out, and exclaimed, with surprise, "Shewetagon
awbo!" [salt water.] It was the sea. While looking on the water, the sun arose as if from the
deep, and went on its steady course through the heavens, enlivening the scene with his cheering
and animating beams. They stood in fixed admiration, but the object appeared to be as distant
from them as ever. They thought it best to encamp, and consult whether it were advisable to
go on, or return. "We see," said the leader, "that the sun is still on the opposite side of
this great water, but let us not be disheartened. We can walk around the shore." To this they
all assented.

Next morning they took the northerly shore, to walk around it, but had only gone a short distance
when they came to a large river. They again encamped, and while sitting before the fire, the
question was put, whether any one of them had ever dreamed of water, or of walking on it. After
a long silence, the eldest said he had. Soon after they lay down to sleep. When they arose
the following morning, the eldest addressed them: "We have done wrong in coming north. Last
night my spirit appeared to me, and told me to go south, and that but a short distance beyond
the spot we left yesterday, we should come to a river with high banks. That by looking off
its mouth, we should see an island, which would approach to us. He directed that we should
all get on it. He then told me to cast my eyes toward the water. I did so, and I saw all he
had declared. He then informed me that we must return south, and wait at the river until the
day after tomorrow. I believe all that was revealed to me in this dream, and that we shall
do well to follow it."

The party immediately retraced their footsteps in exact obedience to these intimations. Toward
the evening they came to the borders of the indicated river. It had high banks, behind which
they encamped, and here they patiently awaited the fulfilment of the dream. The appointed day
arrived. They said, "We will see if that which has been said will be seen." Midday is the promised
time. Early in the morning two had gone to the shore to keep a look-out. They waited anxiously
for the middle of the day, straining their eyes to see if they could discover anything. Suddenly
they raised a shout. "Ewaddee suh neen! There it is! There it is!" On rushing to the spot they
beheld something like an island steadily advancing toward the shore. As it approached, they
could discover that something was moving on it in various directions. They said, "It is a Manito,
let us be off into the woods." "No, no," cried the eldest, "let us stay and watch." It now
became stationary, and lost much of its imagined height. They could only see three trees, as
they thought, resembling trees in a pinery that had been burnt. The wind, which had been off
the sea, now died away into a perfect calm. They saw something leaving the fancied island and
approaching the shore, throwing and flapping its wings, like a loon when he attempts to fly
in calm weather. It entered the mouth of the river. They were on the point of running away,
but the eldest dissuaded them. "Let us hide in this hollow," he said, "and we will see what
it can be." They did so. They soon heard the sounds of chopping, and quickly after they heard
the falling of trees. Suddenly a man came up to the place of their concealment. He stood still
and gazed at them. They did the same in utter amazement. After looking at them for some time,
the person advanced and extended his hand toward them. The eldest took it, and they shook hands.
He then spoke, but they could not understand each other. He then cried out for his comrades.
They came, and examined very minutely their dresses. They again tried to converse. Finding
it impossible, the strangers then motioned to the Naubequon, and to the Naubequon-ais,[94]
wishing them to embark. They consulted with each other for a short time. The eldest then motioned
that they should go on board. They embarked on board the boat, which they found to be loaded
with wood. When they reached the side of the supposed island, they were surprised to see a
great number of people, who all came to the side and looked at them with open mouths. One spoke
out, above the others, and appeared to be the leader. He motioned them to get on board. He
looked at and examined them, and took them down into the cabin, and set things before them
to eat. He treated them very kindly.

When they came on deck again, all the sails were spread, and they were fast losing sight of
land. In the course of the night and the following day they were sick at the stomach, but soon
recovered. When they had been out at sea ten days, they became sorrowful, as they could not
converse with those who had hats on.[95]

The following night Ioscoda dreamed that his spirit appeared to him. He told him not to be
discouraged, that he would open his ears, so as to be able to understand the people with hats.
I will not permit you to understand much, said he, only sufficient to reveal your wants, and
to know what is said to you. He repeated this dream to his friends, and they were satisfied
and encouraged by it. When they had been out about thirty days, the master of the ship told
them, and motioned them to change their dresses of leather, for such as his people wore; for
if they did not, his master would be displeased. It was on this occasion that the elder first
understood a few words of the language. The first phrase he comprehended was La que notte,
and from one word to another he was soon able to speak it.

One day the men cried out, land! and soon after they heard a noise resembling thunder, in repeated
peals. When they had got over their fears, they were shown the large guns which made this noise.
Soon after they saw a vessel smaller than their own, sailing out of a bay, in the direction
toward them. She had flags on her masts, and when she came near she fired a gun. The large
vessel also hoisted her flags, and the boat came alongside. The master told the person who
came in it, to tell his master or king, that he had six strangers on board, such as had never
been seen before, and that they were coming to visit him. It was some time after the departure
of this messenger before the vessel got up to the town. It was then dark, but they could see
people, and horses, and odawbons[96] ashore. They were landed and placed in a covered vehicle,
and driven off. When they stopped, they were taken into a large and splendid room. They were
here told that the great chief wished to see them. They were shown into another large room,
filled with men and women. All the room was Shoneancauda.[97] The chief asked them their business,
and the object of their journey. They told him where they were from, and where they were going,
and the nature of the enterprise which they had undertaken. He tried to dissuade them from
its execution, telling them of the many trials and difficulties they would have to undergo;
that so many days' march from his country dwelt a bad spirit, or Manito, who foreknew and foretold
the existence and arrival of all who entered into his country. It is impossible, he said, my
children, for you ever to arrive at the object you are in search of.

Ioscoda replied: "Nosa,"[98] and they could see the chief blush in being called father, "we
have come so far on our way, and we will continue it; we have resolved firmly that we will
do so. We think our lives are of no value, for we have given them up for this object. Nosa,"
he repeated, "do not then prevent us from going on our journey." The chief then dismissed them
with valuable presents, after having appointed the next day to speak to them again, and provided
everything that they needed or wished for.

Next day they were again summoned to appear before the king. He again tried to dissuade them.
He said he would send them back to their country in one of his vessels: but all he said had
no effect. "Well," said he, "if you will go, I will furnish you all that is needed for your
journey." He had everything provided accordingly. He told them, that three days before they
reached the Bad Spirit he had warned them of, they would hear his Shéshegwun.[99] He cautioned
them to be wise, for he felt that he should never see them all again.

They resumed their journey, and travelled sometimes through villages, but they soon left them
behind and passed over a region of forests and plains, without inhabitants. They found all
the productions of a new country: trees, animals, birds, were entirely different from those
they were accustomed to, on the other side of the great waters. They travelled, and travelled,
till they wore out all of the clothing that had been given to them, and had to take to their
leather clothing again.

The three days the chief spoke of meant three years, for it was only at the end of the third
year, that they came within the sight of the spirit's shéshegwun. The sound appeared to be
near, but they continued walking on, day after day, without apparently getting any nearer to
it. Suddenly they came to a very extensive plain; they could see the blue ridges of distant
mountains rising on the horizon beyond it; they pushed on, thinking to get over the plain before
night, but they were overtaken by darkness; they were now on a stony part of the plain, covered
by about a foot's depth of water; they were weary and fatigued; some of them said, let us lie
down; no, no, said the others, let us push on. Soon they stood on firm ground, but it was as
much as they could do to stand, for they were very weary. They, however, made an effort to
encamp, lighted up a fire, and refreshed themselves by eating. They then commenced conversing
about the sound of the spirit's shéshegwun, which they had heard for several days. Suddenly
the instrument commenced; it sounded as if it was subterraneous, and it shook the ground: they
tied up their bundles and went toward the spot. They soon came to a large building, which was
illuminated. As soon as they came to the door, they were met by a rather elderly man. "How
do ye do," said he, "my grandsons? Walk in, walk in; I am glad to see you: I knew when you
started: I saw you encamp this evening: sit down, and tell me the news of the country you left,
for I feel interested in it." They complied with his wishes, and when they had concluded, each
one presented him with a piece of tobacco. He then revealed to them things that would happen
in their journey, and predicted its successful accomplishment. "I do not say that all of you,"
said he, "will successfully go through it. You have passed over three-fourths of your way,
and I will tell you how to proceed after you get to the edge of the earth. Soon after you leave
this place, you will hear a deafening sound: it is the sky descending on the edge, but it keeps
moving up and down; you will watch, and when it moves up, you will see a vacant space between
it and the earth. You must not be afraid. A chasm of awful depth is there, which separates
the unknown from this earth, and a veil of darkness conceals it. Fear not. You must leap through;
and if you succeed, you will find yourselves on a beautiful plain, and in a soft and mild light
emitted by the moon." They thanked him for his advice. A pause ensued.

"I have told you the way," he said; "now tell me again of the country you have left; for I
committed dreadful ravages while I was there: does not the country show marks of it? and do
not the inhabitants tell of me to their children? I came to this place to mourn over my bad
actions, and am trying, by my present course of life, to relieve my mind of the load that is
on it." They told him that their fathers spoke often of a celebrated personage called Manabozho,
who performed great exploits. "I am he," said the Spirit. They gazed with astonishment and
fear. "Do you see this pointed house?" said he, pointing to one that resembled a sugar-loaf;
"you can now each speak your wishes, and will be answered from that house. Speak out, and ask
what each wants, and it shall be granted." One of them, who was vain, asked with presumption,
that he might live forever, and never be in want. He was answered, "Your wish shall be granted."
The second made the same request, and received the same answer. The third asked to live longer
than common people, and to be always successful in his war excursions, never losing any of
his young men. He was told, "Your wishes are granted." The fourth joined in the same request,
and received the same reply. The fifth made an humble request, asking to live as long as men
generally do, and that he might be crowned with such success in hunting as to be able to provide
for his parents and relatives. The sixth made the same request, and it was granted to both,
in pleasing tones, from the pointed house.

After hearing these responses they prepared to depart. They were told by Manabozho, that they
had been with him but one day, but they afterward found that they had remained there upward
of a year. When they were on the point of setting out, Manabozho exclaimed, "Stop! you two,
who asked me for eternal life, will receive the boon you wish immediately." He spake, and one
was turned into a stone called Shin-gauba-wossin,[100] and the other into a cedar tree. "Now,"
said he to the others, "you can go." They left him in fear, saying, "We were fortunate to escape
so, for the king told us he was wicked, and that we should not probably escape from him." They
had not proceeded far, when they began to hear the sound of the beating sky. It appeared to
be near at hand, but they had a long interval to travel before they came near, and the sound
was then stunning to their senses; for when the sky came down, its pressure would force gusts
of wind from the opening, so strong that it was with difficulty they could keep their feet,
and the sun passed but a short distance above their heads. They however approached boldly,
but had to wait sometime before they could muster courage enough to leap through the dark veil
that covered the passage. The sky would come down with violence, but it would rise slowly and
gradually. The two who had made the humble request, stood near the edge, and with no little
exertion succeeded, one after the other, in leaping through, and gaining a firm foothold. The
remaining two were fearful and undecided: the others spoke to them through the darkness, saying,
"Leap! leap! the sky is on its way down." These two looked up and saw it descending, but fear
paralyzed their efforts; they made but a feeble attempt, so as to reach the opposite side with
their hands; but the sky at the same time struck on the earth with great violence and a terrible
sound, and forced them into the dreadful black chasm.

The two successful adventurers, of whom Iosco now was chief, found themselves in a beautiful
country, lighted by the moon, which shed around a mild and pleasant light. They could see the
moon approaching as if it were from behind a hill. They advanced, and an aged woman spoke to
them; she had a white face and pleasing air, and looked rather old, though she spoke to them
very kindly: they knew from her first appearance that she was the moon: she asked them several
questions: she told them that she knew of their coming, and was happy to see them: she informed
them that they were half way to her brother's, and that from the earth to her abode was half
the distance. "I will, by and by, have leisure," said she, "and will go and conduct you to
my brother, for he is now absent on his daily course: you will succeed in your object, and
return in safety to your country and friends, with the good wishes, I am sure, of my brother."
While the travellers were with her, they received every attention. When the proper time arrived,
she said to them, "My brother is now rising from below, and we shall see his light as he comes
over the distant edge: come," said she, "I will lead you up." They went forward, but in some
mysterious way, they hardly knew how: they rose almost directly up, as if they had ascended
steps. They then came upon an immense plain, declining in the direction of the sun's approach.
When he came near, the moon spake--"I have brought you these persons, whom we knew were coming;"
and with this she disappeared. The sun motioned with his hand for them to follow him. They
did so, but found it rather difficult, as the way was steep: they found it particularly so
from the edge of the earth till they got halfway between that point and midday: when they reached
this spot, the sun stopped, and sat down to rest. "What, my children," said he, "has brought
you here? I could not speak to you before: I could not stop at any place but this, for this
is my first resting-place--then at the centre, which is at midday, and then halfway from that
to the western edge.[101] Tell me," he continued, "the object of your undertaking this journey
and all the circumstances which have happened to you on the way." They complied, Iosco told
him their main object was to see him. They had lost four of their friends on the way, and they
wished to know whether they could return in safety to the earth, that they might inform their
friends and relatives of all that had befallen them. They concluded by requesting him to grant
their wishes. He replied, "Yes, you shall certainly return in safety; but your companions were
vain and presumptuous in their demands. They were Gug-ge-baw-diz-ze-wug.[102] They aspired
to what Manitoes only could enjoy. But you two, as I said, shall get back to your country,
and become as happy as the hunter's life can make you. You shall never be in want of the necessaries
of life, as long as you are permitted to live; and you will have the satisfaction of relating
your journey to your friends, and also of telling them of me. Follow me, follow me," he said,
commencing his course again. The ascent was now gradual, and they soon came to a level plain.
After travelling some time he again sat down to rest, for we had arrived at Nau-we-qua.[103]
"You see," said he, "it is level at this place, but a short distance onwards, my way descends
gradually to my last resting-place, from which there is an abrupt descent." He repeated his
assurance that they should be shielded from danger, if they relied firmly on his power. "Come
here quickly," he said, placing something before them on which they could descend; "keep firm,"
said he, as they resumed the descent. They went downward as if they had been let down by ropes.

In the mean time the parents of these two young men dreamed that their sons were returning,
and that they should soon see them. They placed the fullest confidence in their dreams. Early
in the morning they left their lodges for a remote point in the forest, where they expected
to meet them. They were not long at the place before they saw the adventurers returning, for
they had descended not far from that place. The young men knew they were their fathers. They
met, and were happy. They related all that had befallen them. They did not conceal anything;
and they expressed their gratitude to the different Manitoes who had preserved them, by feasting
and gifts, and particularly to the sun and moon, who had received them as their children.

      [93] The East--i.e. place of light.

      [94] Ship and boat. These terms exhibit the simple and the
      diminutive forms of the name for ship or vessel. It is also the
      term for a woman's needlework, and seems to imply a tangled
      thready mass, and was perhaps transferred in allusion to a ship's
      ropes.

      [95] Wewaquonidjig, a term early and extensively applied to white
      men, by our Indians, and still frequently used.

      [96] Odawbon comprehends all vehicles between a dog train and a
      coach, whether on wheels or runners. The term is nearest allied
      to vehicle.

      [97] Massive silver.

      [98] My father.

      [99] A rattle.

      [100] A hard primitive stone, frequently found along the borders
      of the lakes and watercourses, generally fretted into image
      shapes. Hardness and indestructibility are regarded as its
      characteristics by the Indians. It is often granite.

      [101] This computation of time separates the day into four
      portions of six hours each--two of which, from 1 to 6, and from 6
      to 12 A.M. compose the morning, and the other two, from 1 to 6,
      and from 6 to 12 P.M. compose the evening.

      [102] This is a verbal form, plural number, of the transitive
      adjective--foolish.

      [103] Midday, or middle line.

THE ENCHANTED MOCCASINS.

ODJIBWA.

There once lived a little boy, all alone with his sister, in a very wild uninhabitable country.
They saw nothing but beasts, and birds, the sky above them, and the earth beneath them. But
there were no human beings besides themselves. The boy often retired to think, in lone places,
and the opinion was formed that he had supernatural powers. It was supposed that he would perform
some extraordinary exploits, and he was called Onwe Bahmondoong, or he that carries a ball
on his back. As he grew up he was impatient to know whether there were other beings near them:
she replied, that there was, but they lived in a remote distance. There was a large village
of hunters and warriors. Being now well grown, he determined to seek his fortune, and asked
her to make him several pairs of moccasins to last him on the journey. With this request she
complied. Then taking his bow and arrows, and his war-club, and a little sack containing his
nawappo, or travelling victuals, he immediately set out on his journey. He travelled on, not
knowing exactly where he went. Hills, plains, trees, rocks, forests, meadows, spread before
him. Sometimes he killed an animal, sometimes a bird. The deer often started in his path. He
saw the fox, the bear, and the ground-hog. The eagles screamed above him. The ducks chattered
in the ponds and lakes. He lay down and slept when he was tired, he rose up when he was refreshed.
At last he came to a small wigwam, and, on looking into it, discovered a very old woman sitting
alone by the fire. As soon as she saw the stranger, she invited him in, and thus addressed
him: "My poor grandchild, I suppose you are one of those who seek for the distant village,
from which no person has ever yet returned. Unless your guardian is more powerful than the
guardian of your predecessors, you too will share a similar fate of theirs. Be careful to provide
yourself with the Ozhebahguhnun--the bones they use in the medicine dance[104]--without which
you cannot succeed." After she had thus spoken, she gave him the following directions for his
journey. "When you come near to the village which you seek, you will see in the centre a large
lodge, in which the chief of the village, who has two daughters, resides. Before the door you
will see a great tree, which is smooth and destitute of bark. On this tree, about the height
of a man from the ground, a small lodge is suspended, in which these two daughters dwell. It
is here so many have been destroyed. Be wise, my grandchild, and abide strictly by my directions."
The old woman then gave him the Ozhebahguhnun, which would cause his success. Placing them
in his bosom, he continued his journey, till at length he arrived at the sought-for village;
and, as he was gazing around him, he saw both the tree and the lodge which the old woman had
mentioned. Immediately he bent his steps for the tree, and approaching, he endeavored to reach
the suspended lodge. But all his efforts were vain; for as often as he attempted to reach it,
the tree began to tremble, and soon shot up so that the lodge could hardly be perceived. Foiled
as he was in all his attempts, he thought of his guardian and changed himself into a small
squirrel, that he might more easily accomplish his design. He then mounted the tree in quest
of the lodge. After climbing for some time, he became fatigued, and panted for breath; but,
remembering the instructions which the old woman had given him, he took from his bosom one
of the bones, and thrust it into the trunk of the tree, on which he sat. In this way he quickly
found relief; and, as often as he became fatigued, he repeated this; but whenever he came near
the lodge and attempted to touch it, the tree would shoot up as before, and place the lodge
beyond his reach. At length, the bones being exhausted, he began to despair, for the earth
had long since vanished from his sight. Summoning all resolution, he determined to make another
effort to reach the object of his wishes. On he went; yet, as soon as he came near the lodge
and attempted to touch it, the tree again shook, but it had reached the arch of heaven, and
could go no higher; so now he entered the lodge, and beheld the two sisters sitting opposite
each other. He asked their names. The one on his left hand called herself Azhabee,[105] and
the one on the right Negahnahbee.[106] Whenever he addressed the one on his left hand, the
tree would tremble as before, and settle down to its former position. But when he addressed
the one on his right hand, it would again shoot upward as before. When he thus discovered that,
by addressing the one on his left hand, the tree would descend, he continued to do so until
it had resumed its former position; then seizing his war-club, he thus addressed the sisters:
"You, who have caused the death of so many of my brothers, I will now put an end to, and thus
have revenge for the numbers you have destroyed." As he said this he raised the club and laid
them dead at his feet. He then descended, and learning that these sisters had a brother living
with their father, who would pursue him for the deed he had done, he set off at random, not
knowing whither he went. Soon after, the father and mother of the young women visited their
residence and found their remains. They immediately told their son Mudjikewis that his sisters
had been slain. He replied, "The person who has done this must be the Boy that carries the
Ball on his Back. I will pursue him, and have revenge for the blood of my sisters." "It is
well, my son," replied the father. "The spirit of your life grant you success. I counsel you
to be wary in the pursuit. It is a strong spirit who has done this injury to us, and he will
try to deceive you in every way. Above all, avoid tasting food till you succeed; for if you
break your fast before you see his blood, your power will be destroyed." So saying, they parted.

His son instantly set out in search of the murderer, who, finding he was closely pursued by
the brother of the slain, climbed up into one of the tallest trees and shot forth his magic
arrows. Finding that his pursuer was not turned back by his arrows, he renewed his flight;
and when he found himself hard pressed, and his enemy close behind him, he transformed himself
into the skeleton of a moose that had been killed, whose flesh had come off from his bones.
He then remembered the moccasins which his sister had given him, which were enchanted. Taking
a pair of them, he placed them near the skeleton. "Go," said he to them, "to the end of the earth."

The moccasins then left him and their tracks remained. Mudjikewis at length came to the skeleton
of the moose, when he perceived that the track he had long been pursuing did not end there,
so he continued to follow it up, till he came to the end of the earth, where he found only
a pair of moccasins. Mortified that he had been outwitted by following a pair of moccasins
instead of the object of his revenge, he bitterly complained, resolving not to give up the
pursuit, and to be more wary and wise in scrutinizing signs. He then called to mind the skeleton
he met on his way, and concluded that it must be the object of his search. He retraced his
steps towards the skeleton, but found, to his surprise, that it had disappeared, and that the
tracks of Onwe Bahmondoong, or he who carries the Ball, were in another direction. He now became
faint with hunger, and resolved to give up the pursuit; but when he remembered the blood of
his sisters, he determined again to pursue.

The other, finding he was closely pursued, now changed himself into a very old man, with two
daughters, who lived in a large lodge in the centre of a beautiful garden, which was filled
with everything that could delight the eye or was pleasant to the taste. He made himself appear
so very old as to be unable to leave his lodge, and had his daughters to bring him food and
wait on him. The garden also had the appearance of ancient occupancy, and was highly cultivated.

His pursuer continued on till he was nearly starved and ready to sink. He exclaimed, "Oh! I
will forget the blood of my sisters, for I am starving;" but again he thought of the blood
of his sisters, and again he resolved to pursue, and be satisfied with nothing but the attainment
of his right to revenge.

He went on till he came to the beautiful garden. He approached the lodge. As soon as the daughters
of the owner perceived him, they ran and told their father that a stranger approached the lodge.
Their father replied, "Invite him in, my children, invite him in." They quickly did so; and
by the command of their father, they boiled some corn and prepared other savory food. Mudjikewis
had no suspicion of the deception. He was faint and weary with travel, and felt that he could
endure fasting no longer. Without hesitancy, he partook heartily of the meal, and in so doing
was overcome. All at once he seemed to forget the blood of his sisters, and even the village
of his nativity. He ate so heartily as to produce drowsiness, and soon fell into a profound
sleep. Onwe Bahmondoong watched his opportunity, and, as soon as he found his slumbers sound,
resumed his youthful form. He then drew the magic ball from his back, which turned out to be
a heavy war-club, with one blow of which he put an end to his pursuer, and thus vindicated
his title as the Wearer of the Ball.

      [104] The idea attached to the use of these bones in the medicine
      dance is, that, by their magical influence, the actor can
      penetrate and go through any substance.

      [105] One who sits behind.

      [106] One who sits before.

LEELINAU.

A CHIPPEWA TALE.

The Pukwudjininees, or fairies of Lake Superior, had one of their most noted places of residence
at the great sand dunes of Naigow Wudjoo, called by the French La Grandes Sables. Here they
were frequently seen in bright moonlight evenings, and the fishermen while sitting in their
canoes on the lake often saw them playing their pranks, and skipping over the hills. There
was a grove of pines in that vicinity called the manito wac, or Spirit wood, into which they
might be seen to flee, on the approach of evening, and there is a romantic little lake on those
elevated sand-hills, not far back from the Great Lake, on the shores of which their tracks
could be plainly seen in the sand. These tracks were not bigger than little children's footprints,
and the spirits were often seen in the act of vanishing behind the little pine-trees. They
love to dance in the most lonesome places, and were always full of glee and merriment, for
their little voices could be plainly heard. These little men, the pukwudjininees, are not deeply
malicious, but rather delighted in mischief and freaks, and would sometimes steal away a fisherman's
paddle, or come at night and pluck the hunter's feathers out of his cap in the lodge, or pilfer
away some of his game, or fish. On one occasion they went so far as to entice away into their
sacred grove, and carry off a chief's daughter--a small but beautiful girl, who had been always
inclined to be pensive, and took her seat often in these lonesome haunts. From her baby name
of Neenizu, my dear life, she was called Leelinau, but she never attained to much size, remaining
very slender, but of the most pleasing and sylph-like features, with very bright black eyes,
and little feet. Her mother often cautioned her of the danger of visiting these lonely fairy
haunts, and predicted, playfully, that she would one day be carried off by the Pukwudjees,
for they were very frolicsome, mischievous and full of tricks.

To divert her mind from these recluse moods and tastes, she endeavored to bring about an alliance
with a neighboring forester, who, though older than herself, had the reputation of being an
excellent hunter, and active man, and he had even creditably been on the war path, though he
had never brought home a scalp. To these suggestions Leelinau had turned rather a deaf ear.
She had imbibed ideas of a spiritual life and existence, which she fancied could only be enjoyed
in the Indian elysium, and instructed as she was by the old story-tellers, she could not do
otherwise than deem the light and sprightly little men who made the fairy footprints as emissaries
from the Happy Land. For this happy land she sighed and pined. Blood, and the taking of life,
she said, the Great Spirit did not approve, and it could never be agreeable to minds of pure
and spiritual moulds. And she longed to go to a region where there was no weeping, no cares,
and no deaths. If her parents laughed at these notions as childish, her only resource was silence,
or she merely revealed here motions in her eyes. She was capable of the deepest concealment,
and locked up in her heart what she feared to utter, or uttered to deceive. This proved her ruin.

At length, after a series of conversational interviews on the subject, she announced her willingness
to accede to the matrimonial proposals, and the day was fixed for this purpose. She dressed
herself in the finest manner possible, putting flowers in her hair, and carrying a bunch of
wild flowers, mixed with tassels of the pine-tree in her hand. One only request she made, which
was to make a farewell visit to the sacred grove of the fairies, before she visited the nuptial
bower. This was granted, on the evening of the proposed ceremony, while the bridegroom and
his friends gathered in her father's lodge, and impatiently waited her return. But they waited
in vain. Night came but Leelina was never more seen, except by a fisherman on the lake shore,
who conceived that he had seen her go off with one of the tall fairies known as the fairy of
Green Pines, with green plumes nodding o'er his brows; and it is supposed that she is still
roving with him over the elysian fields.

WILD NOTES OF THE PIBBIGWUN.

CONTENTS.

The Pibbigwun                                                     307

The Chippewa Girl                                                 307

Doubt                                                             308

Fairy Whisperings                                                 309

Song of the Opechee                                               310

Chant to the Fire-fly, the Watasee                                311

Fairy Chief's Carol                                               312

Song of a Captive Creek Girl                                      312

Female Song                                                       313

Male Song                                                         313

Love of the Forest                                                314

Light of Christianity in the Wigwam                               315

The Nocturnal Grave Lights                                        316

Manito                                                            317

Niagara, an Allegory                                              318

Chileeli, a Spirit's Whisperings                                  319

Stanzas on the State of the Iroquois                              322

The Loon's Foot--a Song                                           324

Tulco, Prince of Notto                                            325

On Presenting a Wild Rose plucked on the Sources of the Mississippi                       
326

The Red Man                                                       327

The Skeleton wrapped in Gold                                      330

Waub Ojeeg's Death Whisperings                                    332

To the Miscodeed                                                  333

The Star Family                                                   335

Song of the Wolf-Brother                                          339

Abbinochi                                                         341

To Pauguk                                                         342

NOTES.

THE PIBBIGWUN.[107]

I ope my voice, not with the organ's tone,
  Deep, solemn and majestic; not with sounds
Of trump or drum, that cheer armed squadrons on,
  In coats of steel, o'er lines of bloody grounds,
Nor is my tone, the tone of rushing storms,
  That sweep in mad career through forests tall,
Up-tearing gnarled oaks, with sounds of hellish forms,
  That bode destruction black, and death to all.
Nor is it yet the screaming warrior, loud,
  With hand upraised to mouth, hyena-strong,
That tells of midnight onrush, hell-endowed,
  And bleeding scalp of aged, mild and young.
Ah no! it is a note that's only blown,
  Where kindness fills the heart, and every thrill
Is peace and love, while music's softer tone
  Steals on the evening air, its simple aims to fill,
Waking the female ear to carols of the Pibbigwun.

      [107] Indian flute.

THE CHIPPEWA GIRL.

They tell me, the men with a white-white face Belong to a purer, nobler race; But why, if they
do, and it may be so, Do their tongues cry, "Yes"--and their actions, "No?"

They tell me, that white is a heavenly hue, And it may be so, but the sky is blue; And the
first of men--as our old men say, Had earth-brown skins, and were made of clay.

But throughout my life, I've heard it said, There's nothing surpasses a tint of red; Oh, the
white man's cheeks look pale and sad, Compared to my beautiful Indian lad.

Then let them talk of their race divine, Their glittering domes, and sparkling wine; Give me
a lodge, like my fathers had, And my tall, straight, beautiful Indian lad.

DOUBT.

Ninimosha,[108] think'st thou of me, When beneath the forest tree? Do'st thou in the passing
wind, Catch the sighs I've cast behind? Ah! I fear--I fear--I fear, Evil bird hath filled thine
ear.

Ninimosha, in the clear blue sky, Canst thou read my constancy, Or in whispering branches near,
Aught from thy true lover hear?

      [108] My sweetheart.

FAIRY WHISPERINGS.

Supposed to be addressed to, and responded by a young pine-tree, in a state of transformation.

INVOCATION.

Spirit of the dancing leaves, Hear a throbbing heart that grieves, Not for joys this world
can give, But the life that spirits live: Spirit of the foaming billow, Visit thou my nightly
pillow, Shedding o'er it silver dreams, Of the mountain brooks and streams, Sunny glades, and
golden hours, Such as suit thy buoyant powers: Spirit of the starry night, Pencil out thy fleecy
light, That my footprints still my lead To the blush-let Miscodeed,[109] Or the flower to passion
true Yielding free its carmine hue: Spirit of the morning dawn, Waft thy fleecy columns on,
Snowy white, or tender blue, Such as brave men love to view. Spirit of the greenwood plume,
Shed around thy leaf perfume, Such as springs from buds of gold Which thy tiny hands unfold.
Spirits, hither quick repair, Hear a maiden's evening prayer.

      [109] Claytonia Virginica.

RESPONSE.

Maiden, think me not a tree, But thine own dear lover free, Tall and youthful in my bloom With
the bright green nodding plume. Thou art leaning on my breast, Lean forever there, and rest!
Fly from man, that bloody race, Pards, assassins, bold and base; Quit their dim, and false
parade For the quiet lonely shade. Leave the windy birchen cot For my own light happy lot;
O'er thee I my veil will fling, Light as beetle's silken wing; I will breathe perfume of flowers,
O'er thy happy evening hours; I will in my shell canoe Waft thee o'er the waters blue; I will
deck thy mantle fold, With the sun's last rays of gold. Come, and on the mountain free Rove
a fairy bright with me.

SONG OF THE OPECHEE, THE ROBIN.

The Chippewas relate that the robin originated from a youth who was subjected to too severe
a task of fasting.

In the boundless woods there are berries of red,
  And fruits of a beautiful blue,
Where, by nature's own hand, the sweet singers are fed,
  And to nature they ever are true.

We go not with arrow and bow to the field,
  Like men of the fierce ruddy race,
To take away lives which they never can give,
  And revel the lords of the chase.

If danger approaches, with instant alarm
  We fly to our own leafy woods,
And there, with an innocent carol and charm,
  We sing to our dear little broods.

At morning we sally in quest of the grain
  Kind nature in plenty supplies,
We skip o'er the beautiful wide-stretching plain,
  And sport in the vault of the skies.

At evening we perch in some neighboring tree
  To carol our evening adieu,
And feel, although man assert he is free,
  We only have liberty true.

We sing out our praises to God and to man,
  We live as heaven taught us to live,
And I would not change back to mortality's plan
  For all that the mortal can give.

Here ceased the sweet singer; then pluming his breast,
  He winged the blue firmament free,
Repeating, as homeward he flew to his rest,
  Tshee-ree-lee--Tshee-ree-lee--Tshee-ree-lee!

EVENING CHANT OF INDIAN CHILDREN TO THE WATASEE, THE FIRE-FLY.

