"The Count took them in charge, and, as the city was very near, they soon arrived at the palace.
Then, coming into the presence of the Infanta, he delivered to her the prisoners, and gave
the message with which he was intrusted. The Infanta replied to him,--

"'Tell King Amadis that I thank him greatly for this present which he sends me,--that I am
sure that the good fortune and great courage which appear in this adventure will appear in
those which await us,--and that we are very desirous to see him here, that, when we discharge
our obligation to his son, we may have him as a judge between us.'

"The Count kissed her hand, and returned to the royal camp. Then the Infanta sent to the Empress,
her mother, for a rich robe and head-dress, and, having disarmed the Queen, made her array
herself in them; and she did the same for the Sultan, having sent for other robes from the
Emperor, her father, and having dressed their wounds with certain preparations made by Master
Helisabat. Then the Queen, though of so great fortune, was much astonished to see the great
beauty of Leonorina, and said,--

"'I tell you, Infanta, that in the same measure in which I was astonished to see the beauty
of your cavalier, Esplandian, am I now overwhelmed, beholding yours. If your deeds correspond
to your appearance, I hold it no dishonor to be your prisoner.'

"'Queen,' said the Infanta, 'I hope the God in whom I trust will so direct events that I shall
be able to fulfil every obligation which conquerors acknowledge toward those who submit to them.'"

With this chivalrous little conversation the Queen of California disappears from the romance,
and consequently from all written history, till the very dénouement of the whole story, where,
when the rest is "wound up," she is wound up also, to be set a-going again in her own land
of California. And if the chroniclers of California find no records of her in any of the griffin
caves of the Black Cañon, it is not our fault, but theirs. Or, possibly, did she and her party
suffer shipwreck on the return passage from Constantinople to the Golden Gate? Their probable
route must have been through the Ægean, over Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon to the Euphrates, ("I
will sail a fleet over the Alps," said Cromwell,) down Chesney's route to the Persian Gulf,
and so home.

After the Sultan and the Queen are taken prisoners, there are reams of terrific fighting, in
which King Lisuarte and King Perion and a great many other people are killed; but finally the
"Pagans" are all routed, and the Emperor of Greece retires into a monastery, having united
Esplandian with his daughter Leonorina, and abdicated the throne in their favor. Among the
first acts of their new administration is the disposal of Calafia.

"As soon as the Queen Calafia saw these nuptials, having no more hope of him whom she so much
loved, [Esplandian,] for a moment her courage left her; and coming before the new Emperor and
these great lords, she thus spoke to them:--

"'I am a queen of a great kingdom, in which there is the greatest abundance of all that is
most valued in the world, such as gold and precious stones. My lineage is very old,--for it
comes from royal blood so far back that there is no memory of the beginnings of it,--and my
honor is as perfect as it was at my birth. My fortune has brought me into these countries,
whence I hoped to bring away many captives, but where I am myself a captive. I do not say of
this captivity in which you see me, that, after all the great experiences of my life, favorable
and adverse, I had believed that I was strong enough to parry the thrusts of fortune; but I
have found that my heart was tried and afflicted in my imprisonment, because the great beauty
of this new Emperor overwhelmed me in the moment that my eyes looked upon him. I trusted in
my greatness, and that immense wealth which excites and unites so many, that, if I would turn
to your religion, I might gain him for a husband; but when I came into the presence of this
lovely Empress, I regarded it as certain that they belonged to each other by their equal rank;
and that argument, which showed the vanity of my thoughts, brought me to the determination
in which I now stand. And since Eternal Fortune has taken the direction of my passion, I, throwing
all my own strength into oblivion, as the wise do in those affairs which have no remedy, seek,
if it please you, to take for my husband some other man, who may be the son of a king, to be
of such power as a good knight ought to have; and I will become a Christian. For, as I have
seen the ordered order of your religion, and the great disorder of all others, I have seen
that it is clear that the law which you follow must be the truth, while that which we follow
is lying and falsehood.'

"When the Emperor had heard all this, embracing her with a smile, he said, 'Queen Calafia,
my good friend, till now you have had from me neither word nor argument; for my condition is
such that I cannot permit my eyes to look, without terrible hatred, upon any but those who
are in the holy law of truth, nor wish well to such as are out of it. But now that the Omnipotent
Lord has had such mercy on you as to give you such knowledge that you become His servant, you
excite in me at once the same love as if the King, my father, had begotten us both. And as
for this you ask, I will give you, by my troth, a knight who is even more complete in valor
and in lineage than you have demanded.'

"Then, taking by the hand Talanque, his cousin, the son of the King of Sobradisa,--very large
he was of person, and very handsome withal,--he said,--

"'Queen, here you see one of my cousins, son of the King whom you here see,--the brother of
the King my father,--take him to yourself, that I may secure to you the good fortune which
you will bring to him.'

"The Queen looked at him, and finding his appearance good, said,--

"'I am content with his presence, and well satisfied with his lineage and person, since you
assure me of them. Be pleased to summon for me Liota, my sister, who is with my fleet in the
harbor, that I may send orders to her that there shall be no movement among my people.'

"The Emperor sent the Admiral Tartarie for her immediately, and he, having found her, brought
her with him, and placed her before the Emperor. The Queen Calafia told her all her wish, commanding
her and entreating her to confirm it. Her sister, Liota, kneeling upon the ground, kissed her
hands, and said that there was no reason why she should make any explanation of her will to
those who were in her service. The Queen raised her and embraced her, with the tears in her
eyes, and led her by the hand to Talanque, saying,--

"'Thou shalt be my lord, and the lord of my land, which is a very great kingdom; and, for thy
sake, this island shall change the custom which for a very long time it has preserved, so that
the natural generations of men and women shall succeed henceforth, in place of the order in
which the men have been separated so long. And if you have here any friend whom you greatly
love, who is of the same rank with you, let him be betrothed to my sister here, and no long
time shall pass, before, with thy help, she shall be queen of a great land.'

"Talanque greatly loved Maneli the Prudent, both because they were brothers by birth and because
they held the same faith. He led him forth, and said to her,--

"'My Queen, since the Emperor, my lord, loves this knight as much as he loves me, and as much
as I love thee, take him, and do with him as you would do by me.'

"'Then, I ask,' said she, 'that we, accepting your religion, may become your wives.'

"Then the Emperor Esplandian and the several Kings, seeing their wishes thus confirmed, took
the Queen and her sister to the chapel, turned them into Christians, and espoused them to those
two so famous knights,--and thus they converted all who were in the fleet. And immediately
they gave order, so that Talanque, taking the fleet of Don Galaor, his father, and Maneli that
of King Cildadan, with all their people, garnished and furnished with all things necessary,
set sail with their wives, plighting their faith to the Emperor, that, if he should need any
help from them, they would give it as to their own brother.

"What happened to them afterwards, I must be excused from telling; for they passed through
many very strange achievements of the greatest valor, they fought many battles, and gained
many kingdoms, of which if we should give the story, there would be danger that we should never
have done."

With this tantalizing statement, California and the Queen of California pass from romance and
from history. But, some twenty-five years after these words were written and published by Garcia
Ordoñez de Montalvo, Cortés and his braves happened upon the peninsula, which they thought
an island, which stretches down between the Gulf of California and the sea. This romance of
Esplandian was the yellow-covered novel of their day; Talanque and Maneli were their Aramis
and Athos. "Come," said some one, "let us name the new island California: perhaps some one
will find gold here yet, and precious stones." And so, from the romance, the peninsula, and
the gulf, and afterwards the State, got their name. And they have rewarded the romance by giving
to it in these later days the fame of being godmother of a great republic.

The antiquarians of California have universally, we believe, recognized this as the origin
of her name, since Mr. Hale called attention to this rare romance. As, even now, there are
not perhaps half a dozen copies of it in America, we have transferred to our pages every word
which belongs to that primeval history of California and her Queen.

AMBASSADORS IN BONDS.

Mr. Deane walked into church on Easter Sunday, followed by a trophy. This trophy had once been
a chattel, but was now, as Mr. Deane assured him, a man. Scarcely a shade darker than Mr. Deane
himself as to complexion, in figure quite as prepossessing, in bearing not less erect, he passed
up the north aisle of St. Peter's to the square pew of the most influential of the wardens,
who was also the first man of the Church Musical Committee.

The old church was beautiful with its floral decorations on this festival. The altar shone
with sacramental silver, and rare was the music that quickened the hearts of the great congregation
to harmonious tunefulness. The boys in their choral, Miss Ives in her solos, above all, the
organist, in voluntary, prelude, and accompaniment, how glorious! If a soul in the church escaped
thankfulness in presence of those flowers, in hearing of that music, I know not by what force
it could have been conducted that bright morning to the feet of Love. It was "a day of days."

To the trophy of Deane this scene must have been strangely new. No doubt, he had before now
sat in a church, a decorated church, a church where music had much to do with the service.
But never under such circumstances had he stood, sat, knelt, taking part in the worship, a
man among men. Of this Mr. Deane was thinking; and his brain, not very imaginative, was taxed
to conceive the conception of freedom a man must obtain under precisely these circumstances.

But the man in question was thinking thoughts as widely diverse from these attributed to him
as one could easily imagine. Of himself, and his position, scarcely at all. And when he thought,
he smiled; but the gravity, the abstraction into which he repeatedly lapsed, seemed to say
for him that freedom was to him more than he knew what to do with. No volubility of joy, no
laughter, no manifested exultation in deliverance from bondage: 't was a rare case; must one
believe his eyes?

Probably the constraint of habit was upon the fugitive, the contraband. Homesickness in spite
of him, it might be. Oh, surely freedom was not bare to him as a winter-rifled tree? Not a
bud of promise swelling along the dreary waste of tortuous branches? Possibly some ties had
been ruptured in making his escape, which must be knit again before he could enter into the
joy he had so fairly won. For you and me it would hardly be perfect happiness to feast at great
men's tables, while the faces we love best, the dear, the sacred faces, grow gaunt from starvation.

Mr. Deane took to himself some glory in consequence of his late achievements. He was a practical
man, and his theories were now being put to a test that gave him some proud satisfaction. The
attitude he assumed not many hours ago in reference to the organist has added to his consciousness
of weight, and to-day he has taken as little pleasure as became him in the choir's performance.
Now and then a strain besieged him, but none could carry that stout heart, or overthrow that
nature, the wonder of pachydermata. Generally through the choral service he retained his seat;
a significant glance now and then, that involved the man beside him, was the only evidence
he gave that the music much impressed him; but this evidence, to one who should understand,
was all-sufficient.

Meanwhile the object of these glances sat apparently lost in vacuity, or patiently waiting
the end of the services,--when all at once, during the hymn, he sprang to his feet; at the
same moment two or three beside him felt as if they had experienced an electric shock. What
was it? A voice joined the soprano singer in one single strain, brief as the best joy, but
also as decisive. Ninety-nine hundredths of the congregation never heard it, and the majority
of those that did could hardly have felt assured of the hearing; there were, in fact, but three
persons among them all who were absolutely certain of their ears. One was this contraband;
another an artist who stood at the foot of one of the aisles, leaning against a great stone
pillar; the third was, of course, Sybella Ives.

She, the soprano, sang from that moment in a seeming rapture. The artist listened in a sort
of maze,--interpreting aright what he had heard, disappointed at its brevity, but waiting on
in a kind of wonder through canticle, hymn, and gloria, in a deep abasement that had struck
the singer dumb, could she above there have known what was going on here below.

When the singing was over he went away as he had purposed, but it was only to the steps of
the church. There he sat until he heard a stir within announcing that the services were ended,
when he walked away. But the first person who had heard and understood that voice heard nothing
after. He was continually waiting for it, but he had no further sign. Once his attention was
for a moment turned towards the preacher, who was dwelling on St. Paul's allusion to himself
as an ambassador in bonds; he looked at that instant towards Mr. Deane, who, it happened, was
at the same moment gazing uneasily at him. After that his eyes did not wander any more, and
from his impassive face it was impossible to discover what his thoughts might be.

To go back now a day or two.

II.

A pleasant sound of young voices, that became subdued as the children passed from street to
church-yard, rose from the shadowy elm-walk and floated up through the branches towards the
window of the organist, who seemed to have been waiting some such summons, for she now threw
aside the manuscript music she had been studying, arrayed herself in her shawl, threw a scarf
around her head, and looked at the clock. Straight she gazed at it, a moment full, before she
seemed instructed in the fact represented on the dial-plate, thinking still, most likely, of
the score she had been revising. Some thought at least as profound, as unfathomable, and as
immeasurable as was thereon represented, possessed her, as she now, with a glance around the
room, retired from it.

With herself in the apartment it was another sort of place from what it looked when she had
left it.

There were three pictures on the wall,--three, and no more. One was a copy of the lovely portraiture
of Milton's musical inspired youth; the wonderful eyes, the "breezy hair," the impassioned
purity of the countenance, looked down on the place where the musician might be found three-fourths
of her waking hours, at her piano. In other parts of the room, opposite each other, were pictures
of the Virgin ever-blessed! conquering, crowned.

In the first she stood with foot upon the Serpent, that lay coiled on the apex of the globe.
She had crushed the Destroyer; the world was free of its monster. Beneath her shone the crescent
moon, whose horns were sharp as swords. Rays of blessing, streaming from her hands, revealed
the Mother of grace and of all benefaction.

Opposite, her apotheosis. A chariot of clouds was bearing her to her throne in heaven; the
loving head was shining with a light that paled the stars above her; far down were the crags
of earth, the fearful precipices that lead the weary and adventurous toiler to at last but
narrow prospects. Far away now the conquered Devil, and the conquered world,--the foot was
withdrawn from destructions,--the writhing of the Enemy was felt now no more.

The organist had bought these pictures for her wall when she had paid her first month's board
in this her present abiding-place.

Towards the centre of the room stood her piano, an instrument of finest tone, whose incasing
you would not be likely to admire or observe.

White matting covered the floor. Heaps of music were upon the table and the piano. There were
few books to indicate the taste or studies of the owner beside these sheets and volumes of
music, and they were everywhere. All that ever was written for organ or piano seemed to have
found its way in at the door of that chamber.

On a pedestal in the window stood an orange-tree, whose blossoms filled the room with their
bright, soft sweetness; a Parian vase held a bouquet of flowers, gathered, none could question
whether for the woman whose room they decorated.

One window of this room looked out on a busy street, another into the church-yard, a third
upon the sea: not so remote the sea but one could hear the breaking of its waves, and watch
its changing glory.

Thus she had for "influences" the loneliness of the grave,--for the church-yard was filled
with monuments of a past generation,--the solitude of the ocean, and the busy street. Was she
so involved in duties, or in cares, as to be unmindful of all these diverse tongues that told
their various story in that lofty and lonely apartment of the old stone house?

Into the church, equally old and gray, covered with ivy, shadowed even to the roof by the vast
branching and venerable trees, she now went,--and was not too early. The boys were growing
restless, though it needed but the sound of her coming to reduce them all to silence: when
they saw her enter the church-door, they all went down quietly to their places, opened their
books, and no one could mistake their aspect for constraint. Here was the bright, beautiful,
enthusiasm and blissful confidence of youth.

A few words, and all were in working order. The organist touched the keys. Then a solemn softness,
beautiful to see, overspread the young faces. It had never been otherwise since she began to
teach them. If she controlled, it was not by exhibition of authority.

"Begin."

At that word, with one consent, the voices struck the first notes of the carol,--

    "Let the merry church-bells ring,
      Hence with tears and sighing;
    Frost and cold have fled from spring,
      Life hath conquered dying;
    Flowers are smiling, fields are gay,
      Sunny is the weather;
    With our rising Lord to-day
      All things rise together."

From strain to strain they bore it along till the old church was glad. How must the birds in
the nests of the great elm-branches have rejoiced! And the ivy-vines, did they not cling more
closely to the gray stone walls, as if they, too, had something at stake in the music? for
they were the children of the church who sang those strains. Among the wonder-working little
company within there was no loitering, no laughing, no twitching of coat-sleeves on the sly,
no malicious interruptions: all were alert, earnest, conscientious. They sang with a zeal that
brought smiles to the face of the organist.

Two or three songs, carols, anthems, and the lesson was over. Now for the reward. It came promptly,
and was worth more than the gifts of others.

"You have all done excellently well. I knew you would. If I had found myself mistaken, it would
have been a great disappointment. 'T is a great thing to be able to sing such verses as if
you were eye-witnesses of what you repeat. That is precisely what you do. Now you may go. Go
quietly."

She looked at them all as she spoke; it was a broad, comprehensive glance, but they all felt
individualized by it. Then they came, the six lads, with their bright, handsome faces, pride
of a mother's heart every one, and took her hand, and carried away, each one, her kiss upon
his forehead. Not one of them but had been blest beyond expression in the few half-hours they
had been gathered under the instruction of the organist. So they went off, carrying her precious
praise with them.

They had scarcely gone, and the organist was yet searching for a sheet of music, when a step
was in the aisle, noiseless, rapid, and a young girl came into the singers' seat.

"Am I too early?" she asked,--for her welcome was not immediate, and her courtesy was not just
now of the quality that overlooked a seeming lack of it in others. Miss Ives was slightly out
of tune.

"Not at all," was the answer. Still it was spoken in a very preoccupied way that might have
been provoking,--that would depend on the mood of the person addressed; and that mood, as we
know, was not sun-clear or marble-smooth. The organist had now found the music she was looking
for, and proceeded to play it from the first page to the last, without vouchsafing an instant's
recognition of the singer's presence.

When she had finished, she sat a moment silent; then she turned straight toward Miss Ives,
and smiled, and it was a smile that could atone for any amount of seeming incivility.

But not even David, by mere sweep of harp-string, soothed self-beleaguered Saul.

Teacher and pupil did not seem to understand each other as it was best such women should. For,
let the swaying, surging hosts throughout the valley deliver themselves as they can from the
confusion of tongues, the wanderers among the mountains ought to understand the signals they
see flaring from crag and gorge and pinnacle.

Too many shadowy folds were in the mystery that hung about each of these women to satisfy the
other: reticence too cold, independence too extreme, self-possession too entire. Why was neither
summoned, in a frank, impulsive way, to take up the burden of the other? Was nothing ever to
penetrate the seven-walled solitude in which the organist chose to intrench herself? Was nobody
ever to bid roses bloom on the colorless face of the singer, and bring smiles, the veritable
smiles of youth, and of happiness, into those large, steady, joyless eyes?

But now, while the organist played, and Sybella sat down, supposing she was not wanted yet,
she found herself not withdrawn into the indifference she supposed. Presently far more was
given than she either looked for or desired.

The music that was being played was indeed wonderful. This was not for the delight of children:
no happy sprite with dancing feet could maintain this measure. It was music for the most advanced,
enlightened intelligence,--for the soul that music had quickened to far depths,--for the heart
that had suffered, triumphed, and gained the kingdom of calm,--for a wisdom riper even than
Sybella's.

An audience of a hundred souls would infallibly have gabbled their way through the silence
that would naturally gather round those tones. Put Sybella in the midst of such an audience,
and you would understand her better than I hope now to make her understood; for the torture
of the moment would have been of the quality that has demonstration.

As it was, she now sat silently, as silently as the organist sat in her place; but when all
was over, she turned to look at the magician. Sybella had passed through fearful agitation
in the beginning and throughout the greater part of the performance, but now she quietly said,--

"That is the one sole composition of its author."

"Why do you say so?" asked the organist, whom people in general called Miss Edgar.

"Because, of course, everything is in it,--I mean the best of everything that could be in one
soul. If the composer wrote more, it was fragmentary and repetitious. If you played it, Miss
Edgar, to put me in a better voice for singing than I had when I came in, I think you have
succeeded. I can almost imagine how Jenny Lind felt, when her voice came back to her."

"We shall soon see that. I don't know that the music has ever been played on an organ before.
But you see it is a rare production,--little known,--a book of the Law not read out of the
sacred place. Let us try that prayer again. You will sing it differently to-day,--I see it
in your face."

"Thou that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us!"

Something had happened to the voice that sang. Never had the organist heard such tones from
it before; there was volume, depth, purity, such as had been unheard by those who thought they
knew the quality and compass of Sybella's voice.

The organist could not forbear turning and looking at her as she sang. Great, evidently, was
her emotion. This nature that had been in bonds manifestly had eschewed the bondage. Was the
organist glad thereat? Whose praise would be on everybody's lips on Sunday, if Sybella sang
like this? Are women and men generally pleased to hear the praises of a rival? You have had
full hearing, generous, more than patient; do you feel a thrill of the old rapture, a kindling
of the old enthusiasm, when you hear the praises of the young new-comer, who has reached you
with a stride, and will pass you at a bound? Since this may be in human nature, say "Yes" to
the catechist. For the organist returned to her duties with a brightened face, she touched
the keys with new power. Then, again,--

"Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father!"

Had this girl the vision--"Not far from any one of us"?

"I thought so," said the organist. "You come forth at last. This is what I expected, when I
overheard you instructing the children in the Sunday-school. Now all that is justified, but
you have been a long while about it,--or I have. It seems the right chord wasn't struck. I
made these adaptations on purpose for the voice I expected of you."

"Is not the arrangement a new one, Mrs. Edgar?" asked a voice from one of the aisles. "It is
perfect."

"It is a new adaptation, Mr. Muir, and I think Miss Ives will hardly improve on her first rendering.
It is getting late also. It is time to look at the hymn."

Mr. Muir, who was the rector of the church, now passed along the aisle until he was beyond
the voices of the ladies in the choir, and then he stood, during the rehearsal of the Easter
hymn,--

    "Christ the Lord is risen to-day."

One repetition of these verses, and the rehearsal was at an end. Never was such before in that
place. Never before in reality had organist of St. Peter's attempted so much. When the choir
came together for an hour's practice, this would be understood. Miss Ives already understood it.

"Now indulge me," she said, "if I have been so fortunate as to satisfy--satisfy you."

In consequence of this request the organist kept her place till night had actually descended.
Out of all oratorios, and from many an opera, she brought the immortal graces, and all conceivable
renderings of passions, fears, and aspirations of men. At last, and as it seemed quite suddenly,
she broke off, closed the organ-doors and locked them, then rose from her place.

A dark figure at the same moment passed up the aisle from the church to the vestry-room in
the rear, and organist and singer left the church.

III.

"I believe," said Sybella, as they went, venturing now, while aglow with the music, on what
heretofore had been forbidden ground to her,--"I believe, if you would sing, I should be struck
dumb, just as now, when you play, I feel as if I could do anything in song. Why do you never
show me how a thing should be done by singing it? I've had teachers with voices hoarse as crows',
who did it; and I profited, for I understood better what they meant. It seems to me to be the
natural impulse, and I don't know how you control it; for of course you do control it."

That was a venture, felt in all its venturesomeness, answered not with encouragement.

"It is all nonsense," said Miss Edgar.

"I expected you to say so; but 't is a scant covering for the truth. For have I never heard
you sing? When I was a little girl, my brothers and I were sent to some springs in the mountains.
While we were there, one day a party of people came on horseback. They were very gay, and one
of them sang. It has come back to me so often, that day! So still, bright, and cool! Did you
ever hear singing in the Highland solitudes? When I sing my best, I always seem to hear that
voice again. Do you think I never shall?"

"Do you think it possible that such an effect as you describe should be repeated? Evidently
the outcome of some high-wrought, rapt state of your own, rather than the result of any singer's
skill. It may happen you will never hear a voice like that again. But you may make far better
melody yourself. If you like my organ-music, don't ask me for better. A little instrumental
performance is all I have to give."

"But," said Sybella, holding to the point with a persistence that showed she would not be lightly
baffled, "her face haunted me, too. And I have seen it since then,--engraved, I am sure. Sometimes,
when I look at you suddenly, I seem to take hold upon my childhood again."

They had passed from the yard, and walked, neither of them knew exactly whither; but now said
the organist abruptly,--

"Why have you never shown me where you live?"

A light that had warmth in it flashed over the pale face of Sybella.

"I will show you now," she said.

And so they walked on together, with a distinct aim,--Sybella the guide. She seemed tranquilly
happy at this moment, and fain would she lay her heart in the hand of the organist; for a great
trust had composed the heart that long since withdrew its riches from the world, and hid them
for the coming of one who should take usury. How long he was in coming! how strangely long!
rare worldliness! almost it seemed that now she would wait no longer, for the gold must be
given away.

"Why do you sing, Sybella?" asked Miss Edgar, as they went.

"Why did I stop singing?" asked the young lady in turn; this stiff, shy, proud creature, what
flame might one soon see flaring out of those blue eyes!

"I knew there had been a break,--that there must have been."

"For two years I did nothing but wait in silence."

"What,--for the voice to come back? overwork? paying a penalty?"

"No,--not the penalty of overwork, at least. I lost everything in a moment. That was penalty,
perhaps, for having risked everything. I have only recently been getting back a little: no,
getting back nothing,--but some new life, out of a new world, I think. A different world from
what I ever thought to inhabit. New to me as the earth was to Noah after the Flood. He couldn't
turn a spade but he laid open graves, nor pull a flower but it broke his heart. I should never
have been in the church-choir but for you. Of that I am satisfied. When you came and asked
me, you saw, perhaps, that I was excited more than so slight a matter warranted. It was, indeed,
a simple enough request. Not surprising that you should discover, one way or another, I could
sing. And there was need enough of a singer with such an organist. But you never could guess
what I went through after I had promised, till the Sunday came. You remember how astonished
you were when I came into the choir. I was afraid you were going to excuse me from my part.
But you at least understood something of it; you did not even ask if I were not ill. It seems
a long time since then."

A little to the organist's surprise, it was into a broad and handsome street that Sybella now
led the way, and before the door of a very handsome house she stopped.

"Will you not come in and discover where I live, and how? It will be too late in a moment for
you to go back alone. I shall find somebody to attend you."

"In the ten months I have played the organ of St. Peter's Church I have not entered another
person's dwelling than my own. I set aside a purpose that must still be rigidly held, for you.
Possibly you may incur some danger in receiving me."

"Come in," said Sybella; and she led the way into the house. For one instant she had looked
her surprise at Miss Edgar's last words, but not for half an instant did she look the hesitation
such words might have occasioned.

The house into which they passed did not, in truth, look like one to suffer in. Walls lined
with pictures, ceilings hung with costly chandeliers, floors covered with softest, finest carpets
of most brilliant patterns, this seemed like a place for enjoyment, designed by happy hearts.
It was: all this wealth, and elaboration of its evidences,--this covering of what might have
looked like display by the careful veil of taste. But the house was the home of orphaned children,--of
this girl, and three brothers, who were united in their love for Sybella, but on few other
points. And curious was the revelation their love had. For they were worldly men, absorbed
in various ways by the world, and Sybella lived alone here, as she said, though the house was
the home of all; for one was now abroad, and one was in the army, and one was--who knew where?

In the drawing-room it was about the piano that the evidences of real life and actual enjoyment
were gathered. Flowers filled a dozen vases grouped on tables, ornamenting brackets, flower-stands,
and pedestals of various kinds. The grand piano seemed the base of a glowing and fragrant pyramid;
and there, it was easy to see, musical studies by day and by night went on.

Straight toward the piano both ladies went.

"Now, for once," said the organist.

Sybella stood a moment doubting, then she turned to a book-rack and began to look over some
loose sheets of music. Presently desisting, she came back. One steady purpose had been in her
mind all the while. She now sat down and produced from the piano what the organist had astonished
her by executing in the church. But it seemed a variation.

The work of a moment? an effort of memory? a wonderful recall of what she had just now heard?
The organist did not imagine such a thing. There was, there could be, only one solution to
anything so mysterious. She came nearer to Sybella; invisible arms of succor seemed flung about
the girl, who played as she had never played before,--as weeping mortals smile, when they are
safe in heaven.

When she had finished, many minutes passed before either spoke a word. At last Sybella said,--

"He told me there was no written copy of this thing he could secure for me, but that I must
have it; so he wrote it from memory, and I elaborated the idea I had from his description,
making some mistakes, I find. I am speaking," she added, with a resolution so determined that
it had almost the sound of defiance,--"I am speaking of Adam von Gelhorn."

"When was this?"

"In our last days."

"He is dead, then?"

"Yes."

"How long?"

"Three years."

Whether the organist remained here after this, or if other words were added to these by the
hostess or the guest, there is no report. But I can imagine that in such an hour, even between
these two, little could be said. Yesterday I saw on a monument a little bird perched, quite
content, and still, so far as song went, as the dead beneath him and around me. He was throbbing
from far flight; silence and rest were all he could now endure. But by-and-by he shook his
wings and was off again, and nobody that saw him could tell where in the sea of air the voyager
found his last island of refreshment.

IV.

On Miss Edgar's return to her room, as she opened the door, a flood of fragrance rolled upon
her. She put up her hand in hasty gesture, as if to rebuke or resist it, while a shade of displeasure
crossed her face. On the piano lay a bouquet of flowers, richest in hue and fragrance that
garden or hot-house knows. All the season's splendor seemed concentrated within those narrow
bounds.

The gas was already burning from a single jet, which she approached without observing the unusual
fact, for the organist was accustomed in this room herself to control light and darkness.

One glance only was needed to convince her through what avenue this flowery gift had come.

Such gifts were offerings of more than common significance. Their renewal at this day seemed
to disturb the organist as she turned the bouquet slowly in her hand and perceived how the
old arrangement had been adhered to, from passion-flower to camellia, whitest white lily, and
most delicate of roses; moss and vine-tendril, jessamine, heliotrope, violet, ivy: it was a
work of Art consummating that of Nature, and complete.

With the bouquet in her hand, she went and sat down at the window. It was easy to see, by the
changes of countenance, that she was fast assuming the reins of a resolution. Would the door
of the organist of St. Peter's never open but to guests ethereal as these? The question was
somehow asked, and she could not choose but hear it.

If he who sent the gift had pondered it, no less did she. And for result, at an early hour
the next morning, the lady who had lived her life in sovereign independence and an almost absolute
solitude, week after week these many months here in H----, was on her way to the studio of
Adam von Gelhorn.

As to the lady, what image has the reader conjured up to fancy? Any vision? She was the shadow
of a woman. Rachel, in her last days, not more ethereal. Two pale-faced, blue-eyed women could
not be more dissimilar than the organist and her soprano. For the organist plainly was herself,
with merely an abatement, that might have risen from anxiety, work, or study; whatever her
disturbance, she made no exhibition of it; it was always a tranquil face, and no storms or
wrecks were discoverable in those deep blue eyes. What those few faint lines on her countenance
might mean she does not choose you shall interpret; therefore attempt it not. But when you
look at Sybella, it is sorrow you see; and she says as plainly as if you heard her voice,--

"I have come to the great state where I expect nothing and am content."

Yet content! Is it content you read in her face, in her smile? Is it satisfaction that can
gaze out thus upon the world?

It is sorrow rather,--and sorrow, with a questioning thereat, that seems prophetic of an answer
that shall yet overthrow all the grim deductions, and restore the early imaginings, pure hopes,
desires, and loving aims.

You will choose to gaze rather after this shadowy vision of the fair, golden hair that lies
tranquilly on the high and beautiful forehead; the face, pale as pallor itself, which seems
to have no color, except in eyes and lips: the eyes so large and blue; the lips with their
story of firm courage and true genius, so grand in calm. A figure, however, not likely to attract
the many, but whom it held for once it held forever.

So the organist came to the room of Adam von Gelhorn.

She knew his working hours and habits, it seemed; at least, she did not fail to find him, and
at work.

As she stepped forward into the apartment, before whose door she had paused a moment, no trace
of embarrassment or of irresolution was to be seen in face, eye, or movement.

But the artist, who arose from his work, was taken by surprise.

The armor of the world did not suffice to protect him at this moment. He was at the mercy of
the woman who was here.

"Mrs. Edgar!"

"Adam."

"Here!"

"To thank you for the flowers, and to warn you that setting them in deserts is neither safe
nor providential."

And now her eyes ran round the room,--a flash in which was sheathed a smile of satisfaction
and of friendly pride. She had come here full of reproaches, but surely there was some enchantment
against her.

"You will order a picture, perhaps?" said the artist, restored to at least an appearance of ease.

But his eyes did not follow hers. They stopped with her: with some misgiving, some doubt, some
perplexity, for he knew not perfectly the ground on which he stood.

"You have been twice to see me, and both times have missed me," she said. "I was sorry for
that. I did not know until then that you were living here."

"But what does it mean, that nobody in H---- has heard the voice yet? It has distracted me
to think, perhaps, some harm has come to it."

"Let that fear rest. The voice has had its day. I left it behind me at Havre. Any repetition
of what we used to imagine were triumphs in the wonderful Düsseldorf days would now seem absurd,
to the painter of these pictures, as to me."

"They were triumphs! Besides, have you forgotten? Was it not in New York, in '58, that you
imported the voice from Havre, left behind by mistake? What more could be asked than to inspire
a town with enthusiasm, so that the dullest should feel the contagion? They were triumphs such
as women have seldom achieved. If you disdain them, recollect that human nature is still the
same, and all that I have done is under the inspiration of a voice that broke on me in Düsseldorf,
and opened heaven. And people find some pleasure in my pictures."

"Well may they! You, also. You have kept that power separate from sinners, unless I mistake.
If it be my music, or the face yonder, that has helped you, or something else, unconfessed,
perhaps unknown, you can, I perceive, at least love Art worthily, and be constant. As for St.
Peter's, and myself, I find the fine organ there quite enough, with the boys to train and Miss
Sybella Ives to instruct. It isn't much I can do for her, though; she is already a great and
wonderful artist."

"Is it possible you think so!"

Was it really wonder at the judgment she heard in that exclamation? The voice sounded void
of all except wonder,--yet wonder, perhaps, least of all was paramount in the pavilion of his
secret thoughts.

"Decidedly. But I only engaged there as organist. I find sufficient pleasure instructing the
young lady, without feeling ambitious to appear there as her rival."

"But you know she is not a professional singer": these words escaped the artist in spite of
him. "She is an heiress of one of the wealthiest old families of this old town."

"Nevertheless, she is growing so rarely in these days I would not for the world check that
growth, as I see I might. Besides, I am selfish; it's best for me to keep to my engagement,
and not volunteer anything."

"And so we who have memories must rest content with them. I am glad you tell me, if it must
be so. I have not haunted you, and I feel as if I almost deserved your thanks on that account.
I've haunted the church, though, but"----

"Well."

"Miss Ives sings better than she did,--too well for such a girl in such a place."

"Why?"

"Because, as I said before, neither Art nor fortune justifies her, and what she gets will spoil
her."

He ended in confusion; some thought unexpressed overthrew him just here, and he could not instantly
gather himself up again.

"Do not fear," was the calm answer. "She is sacredly safe from that,--as safe as I am. For
so young a person, she is rich in safeguards, though she seems to be alone; and she is brave
enough to use them. If you come to the church to-morrow, you will be converted from the error
of some of your worst thoughts."

"I told you in secret once, Heaven knows under what insane infatuation, what I could tell you
now with husband or child for audience,--there is, there has ever been, but one voice for me."

For answer the organist lifted the lid of the artist's piano, touched a few notes, and sang.

Was that the voice that once brought out the applause of the people, rushing and roaring like
the waves of the sea?

The same, etherealized, strengthened,--meeting the desire of the trained and cultured man,
as once it had the impassioned aspiration of youth.

He stood there, as of old, completely subject to her will; and of old she had worked for good,
as one of God's accredited angels. Every evil passion in those days had stood rebuked before
the charmed circle of her influences: a voice to long for as the hart longs for the water-brooks;
a spirit to trust for work, or for love, or for truth,--"truest truth," and stanchest loyalty,
as one might trust those who are delivered forever from the power of temptation.

When she had ended the song, she had indeed ended. Not one note more. Closing the piano, she
walked about the room, looking at his pictures one after another, pausing long before some,
but the silence in which she made the circuit was unbroken.

At last she came to the last-painted picture, where a soldier lay dying, with glory on his
face, victory in his eyes. Beside this she remained.

"There's many a realization of that dream," she said.

The words seemed to sting the artist as though she had said instead, "Here's one who is in
no danger of realizing it."

"I thought," said he, "I might one day prove for myself the emotions attributed to that soldier."

She hesitated before answering. A vision rose before her,--a vision of fields covered with
the slain, unburied dead. Here the paths of honor were cut short by the grave. She looked at
Adam von Gelhorn. Here was no warrior except for courage, no knight but for chivalry. Yet how
proudly his eyes met hers! What was this glance that seemed suddenly to fall upon her from
some unbroken, awful height? It was a great thing to say, with the knowledge that came with
that glance,--

"Do you no longer think so? Patriotism has its tests. This war will be long enough to sift
enthusiasms."

Humbly he answered,--

"I wait my time."

Then, urged on by two motives, distinct, yet confluent, and so all-powerful,--

"Strange army, Adam, if all the soldiers waited for it."

He answered her as mildly as before, but with quite as deep assurance,--

"Not a man of them but has heard his name called. The time of a man is his own. The trumpet
sounds, and though he were dead, yet shall he live."

"And do you wait that sound? Then verily you may remain here safely, and paint fine pictures
of wounded men on awful battle-fields."

The artist looked at the woman. Did she speak to test his patience, or his courage, or his
loyalty? Gravely he answered, true to himself, though baffled in his endeavor to read what
she chose to conceal,--

"Once I took everything you said as if you were inspired, for I believed you were. For years
I have been accustomed to think of your approval, and wait for it, and long for it; for I always
knew you would finally stand here in the midst of my work as the one thing that should prove
to me it was good. If you could only know what sort of value I have set on the praise of critics
while waiting for yours, you would deem me ungrateful. But I knew you would come. You are here,
then,--and I perceive, though you do not say so, that I have not wasted time; often, while
I was painting that hero yonder, I said to myself, 'Better die than hold on to life or self
a moment after the voice calls!' Julia, it has called!"

This was spoken quietly enough, but with the deep feeling that seeks neither outlet nor consolation
in sound. Having spoken, he went up to his easel, cut away the canvas with long, even knife-strokes,
set aside the frame. He was ready. And now he waited further orders,--looking at the woman
who had accomplished so much.

She did not, by gesture or word, interrupt him; but when he stood absolutely motionless and
silent, as if more were to be said, and by her, she evidently faltered.

"Give me the canvas," she said.

"Your trophy."

He gave it her with a smile.

"No; but if a trophy, worth more than could be told. There's nobler work for you to do than
painting pictures. Atonement,--reconciliation,--sacrifice."

"Where? when? how?"

He put these questions with a distinctness that required answer.

"Your heart will tell you."

He had his answer.

"And the portrait yonder, that will tell you. It is not hers, you will say. But it is not mine,
nor a vision, except as you have glorified her. In spite of yourself, you are true. And in
spite of herself, Sybella believes in you."

"Such a collection of incoherent fragments from the lips of an artist accustomed to treat of
unities,--it is incomprehensible."

So the painter began; but he ended,--

"When I come back from battle, I will think of what you say. I do believe in my own integrity
as firmly as I trust my loyalty."

There was a rare gentleness in the man's voice that seemed to say that mists were rising to
envelop the summits of the mountains, and he looked forth, not to the bald heights, but along
the purple heather-reaches, where any human feet might walk, finding pleasant paths, fair flowers,
cool shades, and blessed reflections of heaven.

V.

The rector of St. Peter's sat in the vestry-room, which he used for his study, when there came
an interruption to the even tenor of his orthodox thinking.

Whoever sought him did so with a determination that carried the various doors between him and
the study, and at last came the knock, of which he sat in momentary dread. It expressed the
outsider so imperatively, that the minister at once laid aside his pen, and opened the door.
And, alas! it was Saturday, P. M.,--Easter at hand!

He should have been glad, of course, of the cordial hand-grasp with which his stanch supporter,
Gerald Deane, saluted him; but he had been interrupted in necessary work, and his face betrayed
him. It told unqualified surprise, that, at such an hour, he had the honor of a visit from
the warden.

The warden, however, was absorbed in his own business to an extent that prevented him from
seeing what the minister's mood might be. He began to speak the moment he had thrown himself
into the arm-chair opposite Mr. Muir.

"Do you know," said he, "what sort of person we've got here in our organist?"

Indignant was the speaker's voice, and indignant were his eyes; he spoke quick, breathed hard,
showed all the signs of violent emotion.

The minister's bland face had a puzzled expression, as he answered,--

"A first-rate musician, Deane,--and a lady. That's about the extent of my information."

"A Rebel! and the wife of a Rebel!" was Deane's wrathful answer.

Hitherto, what had he not said or done in the way of supporting the organist?

"A Rebel?" exclaimed the minister, thrown suddenly off his guard.

He might have heard calumny uttered against one under his tender care by the way that single
word burst from him.

"The wife of a Rebel general, and a spy!"

Deane's voice made one think of the Inquisition, and of inevitable forfeitures, unfailing executions
of unrelenting judgments.

"For a spy, she makes poor use of her advantages," said the minister. "She's never anywhere,
that I can learn, except in the church and her own room."

"I dare say anybody will believe that whom she chooses to have believe it. How do you or I
know what she is? or where? or what she does? We're not the kind of men for her to take into
confidence. She is evidently shrewd enough to see that it wouldn't be safe to tamper with us!
But we must get rid of her, or we shall have the organ demolished and the church about our
ears. Let the mob once suspect that we employ a spy here to do our music for us, and see what
our chance would be! There's no use asking for proof. There's a young man in my storehouse,
a contraband, who recognized her somewhere in the street this morning, and he says she is the
wife of the Rebel General Edgar; and if it's true, and there's no question about that, I say
she ought to be arrested."

"Pooh! pooh!"--the minister was thrown off his guard, and failed to estimate aright the kind
of patriotism he bluffed off with so little ceremony;--"the negro"----

"Negro! face as white as mine, Sir! Well, yes, negro, I suppose,--slave, any way,--do you want
him summoned in here? Do you want to see him? He gives his testimony intelligently enough.
Or shall we send for Mrs. Edgar? For it's high time she were thrown on her own resources, instead
of being maintained at our expense for the benefit of the enemy."

Precisely as he finished speaking sounded a peal from the great organ, and Mr. Deane just half
understood the look on the minister's face as he turned from him to listen.

A better understanding would have kept him silent longer; but, unable to control himself, he
said,--

"We're buying that at too high a price. Better go back to drunken Mallard,--a great sight better.
McClellan would tell us so; so would Jeff Davis."

"What can be done?" asked the minister.

Never had that good man looked and felt so helpless as at this moment. His words, and still
more his look, vexed and surprised the ever-ready Deane.

"Exactly what would be done, if the woman played fifty times worse, and looked like a beggar.
A medium performer with an ugly visage would not find us stumbling against duty. No respect
should be shown to persons, when such a charge is brought up. The facts must be tested, and
Miss Edgar--What's the reason she never owned she was a Mrs.?"

"Why, Deane, did you ever hear me address her or speak of her in any other way? I knew she
was a married woman."

"Did you know she had a husband living, too?"

"No."

Mr. Muir spoke as if it were beneath him to suppose that use was to be made, to the damage
of the woman, of such acknowledgment.

"It don't look well that people in general are ignorant of the fact. I tell you it's suspicious.
It strikes me I never heard anybody call her anything but Miss Edgar. Excuse me; of course
you knew better."

"Yes, and some beside myself. She told me she was a married woman. But really, Deane, we couldn't
expect, especially of a woman who has been living for months, as it seems to me, in absolute
retirement, that she should go about making explanations in regard to her private affairs.
I have inferred, I confess, that she had in some unfortunate manner terminated her union with
her husband; and I have always hoped that her coming here might prove a providential, happy
thing,--that somehow she might find her way out of trouble, and resume, what has evidently
been broken off, a peaceful and happy life. She is familiar with happiness."

"Well, Sir!" Deane exploded on the preacher's mildness, of which he had grown in the last few
seconds terribly impatient, "I don't know how far Christian charity may go,--a great way farther,
it seems, than it need to, if it will submit to the impertinence of a traitor's coming among
us and accepting our support, at the same time that she takes advantage of her sex and position
to betray us. For that business stands just where it did before. There isn't the slightest
doubt that she will find abettors enough who are as false and daring and impudent as herself.
Whether we shall suffer them is a question, it seems. Excuse my plain speaking, but I am surprised
all round."

"No more than I am, Mr. Deane. It is, as you say, our duty immediately to examine into this
business; but we cannot, look at it as you will, we cannot do so with too much caution. It
is a disagreeable errand for a man to undertake. Let us at least defer judgment for the present.
I will speak to Mrs. Edgar about it myself, and communicate the result immediately to you.
Do you prefer to remain here till I return?"

He arose as he spoke, but Deane rose also. It had at last penetrated the brain of this most
shrewd, but also very dull man, that the business might be conducted with courtesy, and that
a little skill might manage it as effectually as a good deal of courage.

"No, no," he said; "he could trust the business to the minister. Liked to do so, of course.
If there was any shame or remorse in the woman, Mr. Muir was the proper person to deal with it."

And so Deane retired.

But when he was gone, the minister stood listening to his departing steps as long as they could
be heard; then he sat down in his study-chair, and seemed in no haste to go about the business
with which he stood commissioned.

Still the organ-music wandered through the church. Prayer of Moses, Miserere, De Profundis,
the Voice of One crying in the Wilderness, a Song in the Night, the darkness of desolation
rifted only by the cry for deliverance, tragic human experience, exhausted human hope, and
dying faith,--he seemed to interpret the sounds as they swept from the organ-loft and wandered
darkly down the nave among the great stone pillars, till they stood, a dismal congregation,
at the low door of the vestry-room, pleading with him for her who sent them thither, and astounding
him by the hot calumniation that preceded them.

At last, for he was a man to do his duty, in spite of whatsoever shrinking,--and if this accusation
were true, it would be indeed hard to forgive, impossible to overlook the offence,--the minister
walked out from the vestry into the church.

The organist must have heard him coming, for she broke off suddenly, and dismissed the boy
who worked the bellows, at the same moment herself rising to depart.

Just then the minister ascended the steps that led into the choir.

She had no purpose to remain a moment, and merely paused for civil speech, choosing, however,
that he should see she was detained.

He did not accept the signs, and, with his usual grave deference to the will of others in things
trivial, allow her to pass. He said, instead,--

"Mrs. Edgar, I wish you might give me a moment, though I do not see how what I have undertaken
can be said in that length of time. I choose that you should hear from one who wishes you nothing
but good the strange story that troubles me."

"I remain, Mr. Muir," was the answer; and she sat down.

The subject was too disagreeable for him to dally with it. If the charge were a true one, no
consideration was due; if untrue, the sooner that was made apparent, the better.

"It is said that the organist of St. Peter's is not as loyal a citizen of the United States
as might be hoped by those who admire and trust her most; and not only so, but that she is
the wife of a Rebel leader, and in communication with Rebels. It sounds harsh, but I speak
as a friend. I do not credit these things; but they're said, and I repeat them to relieve others
of what they might deem a duty."

Swiftly on his words came her answer.

"You have not believed it, Sir?"

Looking at her, it was the easiest thing for the minister to feel and say,--and, oh, how he
wished for Deane!--

"Not one word of it, Madam."

"That is sufficient,--sufficient, at least, for me. But do they, does any one, desire that
I should take the oath of fealty to the Constitution and to the Government? I am ready to do
either, or both. I hardly reverence the Constitution more than I do the man who is at the head
of our affairs. To me he is the hero of this age."

The minister smiled,--a cordial smile, right trustful, cordial, glad.

"It may be well," said he. "These are strange days to live in, and we all abhor suspicion of
our loyalty. Besides, it may be necessary; for suspicion of this character is an ungovernable
passion now. For myself, I should never have asked these questions; but it is merely right
that you should know the whole truth. A person who reports of himself that he has escaped from
Charleston avers that he has recognized in the organist of St. Peter's the wife of General
Edgar. I don't know the man's name. But his statement has reached me directly. I give you information
I might have withheld, because I perfectly trust both the citizen and the lady who has rendered
us such noble service here."

"And such trust, I may say, is my right. I shall not forfeit it," said the organist, rising.
"I am ready, at any time, to take the oath, and to bear my own responsibilities, Mr. Muir.
I have neither fellowship nor communication with Rebels, and I deem it a strange insult to
be called a spy. 'T is a great pity one should stay here to vex himself with puerile gossip."

She pointed to the stained windows emblazoned with sacred symbols, glorious now with sunlight,
bowed, and was gone.

VI.

There came, on Easter night, to the door of the organist's apartment, the "contraband" who
at present was sojourning under the protection of Mr. Gerald Deane.

The hour was not early. Evening service was over, and Julius had waited a reasonable length
of time, that his errand might be delivered when she should be at leisure. He might safely
have gone at once; for guests never came at night, and rarely by day,--the organist's wish
being perfectly understood among the very few with whom she came in contact, and she being
consequently "let alone" with what some might have deemed "a vengeance." But it satisfied her,
and no other dealing would.

Either this man--Julius Hopkins was his name--had not so recently come to H---- as to be a
stranger in any quarter of the town, or he had made use of his time here; for he seemed familiar
with the streets and alleys as an old resident.

To find the organist was not difficult, when one had come within sight of the lofty spire of
the church, for it was under its shadow she lived; but if he had been accustomed to carry messages
to her door for years, he could not now have presented himself with fuller confidence as to
what he should find.

When Mrs. Edgar opened the door, not a word was needed, as if these were strangers who stood
face to face. In her countenance, indeed, was emotion,--unmeasured surprise; in her manner,
momentary indecision. But the surprise passed into a lofty kindliness of manner, and the indecision
gave place to the most entire freedom from embarrassment. She cut short the words he began
to speak with an authoritative, though most quiet,--

"Julius, come in."

It was not as one addresses the servant of a friend, but spoken with an authority which the
man instantly acknowledged by obedience. He came into the room, closed the door, and waited
till she should speak. She asked,--

"Why are you here?"

He answered as if unaware that any great change had taken place in their relations.

"My master sent me. At last I have found my mistress. It took me a great while."

"Is your master still in arms?"

The man bowed.

"Against the Government?"

"He says, for the Government."

"Of Rebels?"

He bowed again.

"Then, there is no answer,--can be none. Did he not foresee it?"

The slave did not answer. What words that he came commissioned to speak could respond to the
anguish her voice betrayed? She spoke again; she had recovered from the surprise of her distress,
and, looking now at Julius, said,--

"You are excused from replying; but--you do not, in any event, propose to return home?"

"Yes, Madam, yes,--immediately, immediately."

It was the first time he had discovered this purpose, and he did so with a vehemence expressive
of desire to vindicate himself where he should be understood. She answered slowly, but she
did not seem amazed, as Deane would infallibly have been, as you and I had been,--such doubting
worshippers, after all, of the great heroic.

"Do you not hear, Julius, everywhere, that you are a freeman? Is it possible no one has told
you so? Do you not know it for yourself? It is likely."

"It don't signify. I tended him through one course,--he got a bad cut, Master did,--and I'll
take care of him again. I a'n't through till he is."

"Is he well?"

"Thanks to me, and the Lord, he is well of the wound again, and gone to work."

At the pause that now ensued, as if he had only been waiting for this, the slave approached
nearer to his mistress; but he did not lift his eyes,--he desired but to serve. She was so
proud, he thought,--always was; if he could only get himself out of the way, and let this ugly,
cruel business right itself without a witness! Master knew how to plead better than any one
could for him. He produced a tiny case of chamois-leather.

"Master sent you this," he said; and it seemed as if he would have given it into her very hands;
but they were folded; so he laid it on the edge of the piano, and stepped back a pace. He knew
there was no need for him to explain.

Well she understood. Her husband had done his utmost to secure a reconciliation. Love had its
rights, its sacrifices; with these she had to do, and not with his official conduct and public
acts.

She knew well what that trifle of a chamois case contained. It was the miniature of their child,
the little one of earth no more, but heaven-born: the winged child, with the flame above its
head,--symbols with which, of old, they loved to represent Genius. This miniature was set in
diamonds; it was the mother's gift to the father of the child: this woman's gift to the man
whom loyal men to-day call traitor, rebel, alien, enemy.

And thus he appealed to her. Oh, tender was the voice! This love that called had in its utterances
proof that it held by its immortality. The love that pleaded with her appealed to recollections
the most sacred, the most dear, the perpetual,--knowing what was in her heart, knowing how
it would respond.

But there, where Julius left the miniature, it lay; a letter beside it now, and a purse of
gold,--pure gold,--not a Confederate note among it.

Poor Julia Edgar! she need not open the case that shone with such starry splendor. Never could
be hidden from her eyes the face of the child. How should she not see again, in all its beauty,
the garden where her darling had played, little hands filled full of blooms, little face whose
smiling was as that of angels, butterflies sporting around her as the wonderful one of old
flitted about St. Rose,--alas! with as sure a prophecy as that black and golden one? How clearly
she saw again, through heavy clouds of tears that never broke, the garden's glory, all its
peace, its happiness, its pride, and love!

No argument, no word, could have pleaded for the father of the child like this. But it was
love pleading against love,--Earth's beseeching and need, against Heaven's warning and sufficience.

At last she spoke again.

"What is your reward, Julius, for all this danger you've incurred for him, and for me?"

"He said it should be my liberty."

How he spoke those words! LIBERTY! it was the golden dream of the man's life, yet he named
it with a self-control that commanded her admiration and reverence.

"I give it to you at this moment, here!" she said.

For an instant the slave seemed to hesitate; but the hesitation was of utterance merely, not
of will.

"My errand isn't half done, Madam. I never broke my word yet. I'll go back."

"Tell him, then, that I gave you your freedom, and you would not accept it. And--go back! 't
is a noble resolve, worthy of you. Take the purse. I do not need it. Say that I have no need
of it. And you will, perhaps."

No other message for him? Not one word from herself to him! For she knew where safety lay.

The slave looked at her, helpless, hopeless, with indecision. The woman was incomprehensible.
He had set out on his errand, had persevered through difficulties, and had withstood temptations
too many to be written here, with not a doubt as to the success that would attend him. He remembered
the wife of General Edgar in her home; to that home of happy love and noble hospitality, and
of all social dignities, he had no doubt he should restore her. But now, humbled by defeat,
he said,--

"I've looked a great while for you, Madam. I would never 'a' give up, though, if I'd gone to
Maine or Labrador, and round by the Rocky Mountains, hunting for you. I heard you singing in
the church this morning, and I knew your voice. Though it didn't sound natural right,--but
I knew it was nobody else's voice,--as if the North mostly hadn't agreed with it. And I heard
it yesterday somewhere,--that's what 'sured me. I was going along the street, when I heard
it; but it was not this house you were in."

"And it was you, then, Julius, who betrayed me to the person who supposes himself to be your
protector,--and this because you thought surely I must be glad to return, when I had lost my
friends here through ill report! Is that the way your war is carried on?"

"My war, Madam?"

But Julius did not look at his mistress; he looked away, and shrugged his shoulders. The device
of which he was convicted had seemed to him so good, so sure, nevertheless had failed.

She had scarcely finished speaking, when a note was brought to the door. It was from Adam von
Gelhorn.

     "I am making my preparations to go at nine to-morrow," said the
     note. "Will you come to the church before? I would like to
     remember having seen you there last, at the organ. There's a
     bit of news just reached me, said to be a secret. General
     Edgar's command aims at preventing the junction of our forces
     before Y----. He is strong enough, numerically, to overthrow
     either division in separate conflict, and this is his
     Napoleonic strategy. But he will be outwitted. There's no doubt
     of it. Do not despair of our cause, whatever you hear during
     the coming fortnight. I shall report myself immediately to
     McClellan, and he may make a drummer-boy of me, if he will.
     Henceforth I am at his service till the war ends.

    "VON G----."

Thrice she read this note; when her eyes lifted at last, Julius was still standing where she
had left him. She started, seeing him, as if his presence there at the moment took a new significance;
her heart fainted within her.

Had he heard this secret of which Von Gelhorn spoke? It was her husband's life that was in
jeopardy!

"When are you going, Julius?" she asked.

"To-morrow. Oh, Madam, give me some word for him!"

Red horror of death, how it rises before her sight! She shuddered, cowered, sank before the
blackness of darkness that followed fast on that terrific spectacle of carnage, before which
a whirlwind seemed to have planted her. She heard the cries and yells, the groans and curses
of bleeding, dying men; saw banners in the dust, horsemen and horses crushed under the great
guns, mortality in fragments, heaps upon heaps of ruin on the field Aceldama.

Where was he? Who would search among the slain for him? Who from among the dying would rescue
him? Who will stanch his bleeding wounds? Who will moisten his parched lips? Whose voice sound
in the ears that have heard the roar of guns amid the crash of battle? What hand shall bathe
and fan that brow? What eyes shall watch till those eyelids unlock, and catch the whisper of
those lips? Nay, who will save his life from the needless sacrifice? tell him that his plans
are known, warn him back, warn him of spies and of treachery? Has Julius betrayed him?

She looked at the slave. But before she looked, her heart reproached her for having doubted him.

"You will need this gold," she said. "Take it. Restore the miniature to your master. And go,--go
at once. If success be in store for him, I share not the shame of it. If defeat, adversity,
sickness,--your master knows his wife fears but one thing, has fled but from one thing. Her
heart is with him, but she abhors the cause to which he has given himself. She will not share
his crime."

Difficult as these words were to speak, she spoke them without faltering, and they admitted
no discussion.

The slave lingered yet longer, but there was no more that she would say. Assured at last of
that, he said,--

"I obey you," and was gone.

He was gone,--gone! and she had betrayed nothing,--had given no warning,--had uttered not a
word by which the life that was of all lives most precious to her might have been saved!

VII.

By eight o'clock next morning Mrs. Edgar was in the church. Von Gelhorn preceded her by five
minutes; he was walking up the aisle when she entered, impatient for her appearing, eager to
be gone,--wondering, boy-like, that she came not.

He has performed a prodigious amount of labor since they last met. His pictures were all removed
to the Odeon, he said. His studio, haunt of dreams, beloved of fame so long, stripped and barren,
looked like any other four-walled room,--and he, a freeman, stood equipped for service.

Yes, an hour would see him speeding to the capital. In less time than it had taken him to perfect
his arrangements he should be at the head-quarters of the commander-in-chief,--to be made a
drummer-boy of, as he said before, or serve wherever there should be room for him.

He stood there so bright, so ready, eager, daring, was capable of so much! What had she done
to usurp the functions of conscience, and assume the voice of duty? She had done what she could
not revoke, and yet could not contemplate without a sort of terror,--as if to atone, to make
amends for disloyalty, which, coming even as from herself, a crime in which she had chief concernment,
was not to be atoned for by repentance merely, nor by any sacrifices less than the costliest.
She had sought her husband's peer,--deemed that she had found him,--therefore would despatch
him to the battle-field, by valor to meet the valiant. But now the light by which she had hurried
forward to that deed was gone, and she stood as a prophetess may, who, deserted of the divinity,
doubts the testimony of her hour of exaltation.

While they talked,--both apparently standing at an elevation of serene courage above the level
of even warring men and heroic women, but one causing such misgiving in her heart as to fix
her in that mood, and forbid an extrication,--Fate led a lady down the street, who, passing
by the church and seeing the door ajar, went in. She should find in the choir some written
music, used in yesterday's services, which she had forgotten to bring away. Out of the pure,
bright sunshine she stepped into the dark, cold shadows, and had come to the choir before she
heard the voices speaking there. Shrined saints that hold your throne-like niches in the old
stone walls! gilded cherubim that hover round the organ's burnished pipes! what sight do you
look down upon? She walked up quietly,--it was her way, a noiseless, gliding way,--there stood
the organist and Adam von Gelhorn! As if hell had made a revelation, she stood looking at those
two. And both saw her, and neither of the three uttered one word, or essayed a motion, till
she, quietly, it seemed, though it was with utmost violence, turned to go again.

Then--soft the voice sounded, but to her who spoke there was thunder in it--the organist called
after her, "Sybella!"

She, however, did not turn to answer, neither did she falter in going. Departure was the one
thing of which she was capable,--and what could have hindered her going? What checks Vesuvius,
when the flood says, "Lo, I come!"? Or shall the little bird that perches and sings on a post
in the Dismal Swamp prevent the message that sweeps along the wire for a thousand miles?

Von Gelhorn, disturbed by her coming and departure, in that so slight vibration of air caused
by her advance and her retreat, swayed as a reed in the wind, stood for a moment seeking equipoise.
Vain endeavor!

Not with inquiry, neither for direction, his eyes fell on Julia Edgar.

"Go," she said.

She said it aloud; no utterance could have been more distinct. He strode after Sybella.

She heard him come, but did not pause, or turn, or falter. He came faster, gained upon, and
overtook her. It was just there by the church-door. And then he spoke. But not like a warrior.
It was a hoarse whisper she heard, and her name in it. At that call she turned. When she saw
his face, she stood.

Why avert her face, indeed, or why go on?

"I am going away,--in search of death, perhaps. I don't know. But to battle. Will you not come
back and listen one moment?"

She stood as if she could stand. Why did he plead but for one moment? Battle! before that word
she laid down her weapons. Under that glare of awful fire the walls of ice melted, as never
iceberg under tropic sun.

Battle! One out of the world who had been so long out of her world! Out of her world? So is
beauty dead and past all resurrection of a surety, when the dismal winds of March howl over
land and sea!

"Yesterday," he said, "I came to church. Not to hear you, but I heard you. You conquered me.
I was giving a word for you to your friend and mine, when God led you in here. Do not try to
thwart Him. We have tried it long enough. If you should go into my studio,--no, there's no
such place now, but if you went into the Odeon, you would see some faces there that would tell
you who has haunted my dreams and my heart these years. Forgive me now that I'm going away.
Let me hear you speak the very word, Sybella."

How long must sinner call on God before he sees the smile of Love making bright the heavens,
glad the earth, possible all holiness, probable all blessing? For He has built no walls, fastened
no bars and bolts, blasted no present, cursed no future. If Love be large, rich, free, strong
enough, it brings itself with one swift bound into the Heavenly Kingdom where the Powers of
Darkness have almost prevailed.

When Mrs. Edgar saw these two coming up the aisle together, she understood, and, turning full
towards them, sang a song such as was never heard before within those old gray walls.

VIII.

Mr. Muir was but a man. Powerful indeed in his way, but it was behind his pulpit-desk, with
a sermon in his hands, his congregation before him,--or in carrying out any charitable project,
or in managing the business specially devolving on him. He was nobody when he emerged from
his own distinct path,--at least, such was his opinion; and being so, he would not be likely
to attempt the enforcement of another view of his power on other men. He was afraid of himself
now,--afraid that his own preferences had made him obtuse where loyalty would have given him
a clearer vision.

Pity him, therefore, when Mr. Deane learned that the son of bondage in whose deliverance he
took such proud delight, as surely became a good man who greatly valued freedom, aye, valued
it as the pearl beyond all price,--when he learned that the slave had been seen going to the
organist's room, and returning from it, and had not since been seen in H----.

Mr. Muir reflected on these tidings with perplexity, constrained, in spite of him, to believe
that the slave had actually come on a secret errand, which he had fulfilled, and that not without
enlightenment he had returned to his master.

The indignation a man feels, a man of the Deane order especially, when he finds that he has
been imposed upon, though the deception has been in this instance of his own furtherance and
establishment,--this kind and degree of indignation brought Mr. Deane like a firebrand into
the next vestry-meeting. An end must be made of this matter at once. It was no longer a question
whether anything had best be done. Something must be done; the public demanded, and he, as
a good citizen, demanded, that the church should free herself of suspicion.

Mr. Muir felt, from the moment his eyes fell on Deane, that he played a losing game. Vain to
help a woman who had fallen under that man's suspicion, useless to defend her! What should
he do, then? Let her go? let her fall? Allow that she was a spy? Permit her disgrace, dismissal,
arrest possibly? When War takes hold of women, the touch is not tender. Mr. Muir, it was obvious,
was not a man of war. And he had to acknowledge to the Musical Committee, that, as to the result
of his conversation with Mrs. Edgar, he had learned merely what was sufficient, indeed, to
satisfy him of her loyalty, and that she would scorn to do a spy's work; but he had no proof
to offer that might satisfy minds less "prejudiced" in her favor.

It was impossible not to perceive the dissatisfaction with which this testimony was received.

The Committee, however favorably disposed toward the organist, had their own suspicions to
quiet, and a growing rumor among the people to quell. Positive proof must be adduced that the
organist was not the wife of a Rebel general, or she must be removed from her place.

At a time when riot was rife, and street-tumult so common that the citizens, loyal or disloyal,
had no real security, it was venturesome, dangerous, foolhardy, to allow a suspicion to fix,
even by implication, on the church. If the organist, already sufficiently noted and popular
in the town to attract within the church-walls scores of people who came merely for the music,--if
she were suspected of collision with Southern traitors, she must pay the price. It was the
proper tax on loyalty. The church must be free of blame.

So Mr. Muir, a second time on such business, went to Mrs. Edgar.

Various intimations as to what brave men might do in precisely his situation distracted him
as he went. The fascinations of her power were strongly upon him. If he was a hero, here, surely,
was a heroine. And in distress! Had Christian chivalry no demand to make, no claim on him?

All the way, as he went, he was counting the cost of his opposition to the vestry's will. If
he only stood alone! If neither wife nor child had rights to be considered in advance of other
mortals, and which, for the necessities of others, must surely not be waived! If Nature had
not planted in him prudence, if he had only not that vexatious habit of surveying duties in
their wholeness, and balancing consequences, he might, at the moment, enter into Don Quixote's
joy. But,--and here he was at the head of the flight of stairs that led to her chamber, face
to face with her.

Advance now, Christian minister! He comes slowly, weighed down by his burden of consequences,
and, as at one glance, the organist perceives the "situation." He has come with her dismissal
from the church. She sees it in the dejected face, the troubled eyes, the weariness with which
he throws himself into the nearest chair. The duty he has in hand he feels in all its irksomeness,
and makes no concealment thereof,--indeed, some display perhaps.

From a little desultory talk about church-music, through which words ran at random, Mrs. Edgar
broke at last, somewhat impatiently.

"What is it, Mr. Muir? Must your organist take the oath?"

The question caught him by surprise; it was uppermost in his thoughts, this hateful theme;
but then how should she know it? He lost the self-possession he had been trying to maintain,
the dignity of his judicial character broke down completely; he was now merely a kind-hearted
man, a husband and father it is true, but for the moment those domestic ties were not like
a fetter on him.

"I require no such evidence of your loyalty, Mrs. Edgar," he said,--"no evidence whatever."

"But--does not the church?"

This question was asked with a little faltering, asked for his sake; for evidently some knowledge
he had, and had to communicate, that embarrassed him almost to the making of speech impossible.

"The church! No,--it is too late for that!"

And now he had thrown down the hateful truth. There it lay at the feet of the woman who at
this moment assumed to the preacher's imagination a more than saint's virtue, a more than angel's
beauty.

"What then?" she said. "What next, Mr. Muir? Do they want my resignation?"

"Yes."

Mr. Muir said this with a humbled, deprecating gesture of the hand. At the same time bowed
his head.

"I commission you to carry it," she said.

"I will not," he answered, almost ferociously.

"Mr. Muir!"

"I consider it an outrage."

"No,--a misunderstanding."

That mild magnanimity of speech completed the overthrow of his prudence.

"A misunderstanding, then, that shall be rectified to your honor," he exclaimed, "in the very
place where it has gained ground to your dishonor. If you resign, Mrs. Edgar, it must be to
come at once to my house as a guest. If the people are infatuated, the minister need not be
of necessity. My wife will welcome you there; if the law of the gospel cannot protect you from
suspicion, it can at least from harm."

So all in a moment the man got the better of Mr. Muir. What a deliverance was there! This was
the man who had preached and prayed for the Government till more than once he had been invited
to march out with the soldiers as their chaplain to battle, opening his doors to one whom the
loyal church rejected,--opening them merely because she was a woman on whom suspicion he believed
to be unjust had fallen.

Her face lighted, her eyes flashed, she smiled. These were precious words to hear from any
good man's lips. They broke on the air like balm on a wound.

"Not for all the world would I allow it," she answered. "This is no time to complicate affairs.
I thank you, and I confess you have surprised me. I did not expect this even of you. It is
needless for me to say that I feel this disgrace as you would feel it; but I understand the
position of the church, and cannot complain. If I were guilty, this treatment would be only
too lenient. And it is almost guilt to have incurred suspicion."

"I will never be the bearer of your resignation, then,--never, Mrs. Edgar! I wash my hands
of this business!"

She smiled again. The man in his wrath seemed to have seized on a child's weapon. He interpreted
her smile, and said,--

"My position will be well understood, if another is the bearer. And I wish it to be. I wish
men to know that I have no hand in this business. The church is a persecutor. I, her son, am
ashamed of her."

"It has given me my opportunity to make a defence. And I can make none, Mr. Muir. My great
mistake was in remaining here. Ruin, however, is not so rare a thing in these days that I should
be surprised by it, even if it overtake me."

"Ruin! Aye. What curses thicken for their heads who have brought this upon us! Unborn millions
will repeat them, and God Almighty sanction and enforce them."

Mr. Muir paused. What arrested him? Merely the countenance of the woman before him. If all
those curses had gathered into legions of devils, crowding, swarming, furious, armed with lash
and brand, about the form of one who represented love, joy, beauty, all preciousness to her,
the terror and the anguish looking from her face could not have been intensified. But she said
no word.

How should she speak?

As if in spite of him, and of all he had been wont to hold most sacred and potential, in spite
of church and congregation, Constitution and country, the minister had spoken simply for humanity
under oppression; had he not earned her confidence? Did he not deserve to know at least what
real ground there was for the suspicions roused against her?

Nay, nay! When did ever Love seek deliverance at the cost of the beloved? What woman ever betrayed
to secret friend the sin of him she loves? Let all creation read the patent facts, behind them
still remains the inviolate, sacred arcanum, and before it stands sentinel Silence, and around
it are walls of fire.

Not from this woman's lips should mortal ever learn she was a Rebel's wife!

For Mr. Muir, in his present mood, it was only torture to prolong this interview. He felt himself
unfit for counsel or argument,--unfit even for confidence, had it been vouchsafed. But he held,
with a tenacity that could not but have its influence on his future acts and life, to the purpose
that had broken from him so suddenly, and not less to his own surprise than to the organist's.
From this day she was at liberty to seek protection under his roof from threatened mobs and
hot-headed church-wardens. Mr. Deane was one man, he himself was another; and if a day was
ever coming to the world when Christian magnanimity must rise in its majesty and its strength,
that day had surely dawned; if the Christian ministry was ever to know a period when the greatness
of its prerogatives was to be made manifest, that period had certainly begun.

IX.

From this interview Mrs. Edgar went to make her preparations for the flitting she had already
determined upon. She resolved to lose no time, and consoled Mr. Muir by making known her resolution,
and seeking his assistance, when he was in a condition adapted to the bestowal.

But scarcely were her rooms bared, her trunks packed, and the day and mode of her departure
determined upon, when an order came to H---- from a high official source, so authoritative
as to allow no hesitation or demur.

"Arrest the organist of St. Peter's Church, Mrs. Julia Edgar."

And, behold, she was a prisoner in the house where she had lodged!

Opposition was out of the question, protest hardly thought of. One glance was broad enough
to cover this business from end to end, and of resistance there was no demonstration. Her work
now was to restore the room, denuded and desolate, to its late aspect of refinement and cheer.

Well, but is it the same thing to urge others on to sacrifice, and yourself to bring an offering?
to gird another for warfare, and yourself endure hardness? to incite another to active service,
and yourself serve by passive obedience? to place a sword in the right hand of the valiant,
and bare your heart to the smiting of a sword in the same cause of glory?

To have urged out of beautiful and studious retirement the painter of precious pictures, that
he may lift the soldier's burden and gird himself for fasting through long, toilsome marches
over mountains, through wilderness, swamp, and desert, and for encountering Death at every
pass in one of his manifold disguises,--that he may lie on a field of blood, perchance, at
last, the fragment of himself, for what? that he may say, finally, if speech be left him, he
has fought under the flag, that at Memphis its buried glory may have resurrection, that at
Sumter it may float again from the battlements, that at Richmond it may be unfurled above Rebellion's
grave,--is it the same thing to have accomplished this by way of atonement, and in your own
body to atone, by your humiliation, by suspicion endured? She deemed it a small thing that
she was called to suffer,--that, when honor was won, she must bear disgrace instead. What,
indeed, was a year's or a lifetime's imprisonment, looked on in the light of privation or sacrifice?
Yet so to atone, since thus it was written, for the sin of one who was in arms against the
nation's government! Oh, if anywhere, of any loyal citizen, it might be looked upon, accepted,
as atonement!

In one thing she was happy, and of right. Music never failed her. Art keeps her great rewards
for such as serve her for her sacred self. Therefore let her arise day after day to the same
prospect of sky, and sea, and busy street, and silent, shadowy church-yard. I bless the birds
that built their nests in the elm and willow branches for her sake. The little creatures flitting
here and there, in all their home-ways and domestic management, were dear as their song to her.

But in this life, though there might be growth, it was the growth that comes through pain endured
with patience, through self-control maintained in the suspense and the anguish of death.

For what, then, did she long in his behalf whose fate was shrouded in thick darkness from her?
For victory? or for defeat? A prison? mutilation? disablement? burial on the battle-field?
or a disgraceful safety? Constantly this question urged itself upon her, and the heroic love,
that in its great disclosures could not fail, shrank shuddering back in silence.

Thanks to God, she need not choose. The Omniscient is alone the Almighty!

X.

Three months after this order of arrest came another of release,--as brief and as peremptory.

Deane's patriotism, that really had endangered the church with a mob and the organ with demolishment,
was the cause of the first despatch. Colonel Von Gelhorn, who had routed General Edgar and
driven him and his forces at the point of the bayonet from an "impregnable position," was in
the secret of the second.

Close following this order of release, so closely that one must believe he but waited for it
before he again presented himself to his mistress, came Julius, the bearer of a message in
whose persuasive power he himself had little hope. Defeated, wounded, dying, her husband called
this second time to her.

The slave, this day a freeman by all writs and rights, ascended again to her apartment when
the order of release had been received.

Surprise awaited him. Alas, what it says for us! our heroes, who have surely the right of unlimited
expectations, are as likely to be surprised by heroic demonstrations as the dullest soul that
never strove for aught except its paltry starving self. But the hero surprised is not surprised
into uncomprehending wonder, but rather into smiles, or tears, or heartrending, out of which
comes thankfulness.

Yet a bitter word escaped him; he could deem even Liberty guilty of an injustice, when she
was involved in the judgment that awaits the guilty. As if never before under the government
of God it was known that the overthrow of evil involved sorrow, aye, and temporal ruin, aye,
and sometimes death, to God's very angels! But to that word she answered,--

"Hush! I have been among friends,--even though some believed I was their enemy in disguise.
I have nothing to complain of. Duties must be done. But, Julius, you have come to tell me of
your master. Tell me, then."

"Such news, Madam, as you will not like to hear, though I have travelled with it night and
day. Colonel Von Gelhorn sent me. He said I would be in time. I didn't wait to hear him say
that twice."

"He sent you? Where, then, is my husband?"

"He is a prisoner, Madam."

"A prisoner! Whose?"

"Colonel Von Gelhorn's."

Was it satisfaction that filled the silence following this question?

"But safe? but well, Julius?"

"No, Madam, not safe nor well."

"Wounded? Julius, speak! Why must I ask these dreadful questions? Tell what you came to tell."

"He is wounded, Madam. He has never been taken away from the church where I carried him first
after he fell. He had three horses shot under him. Oh, Madam, if it hadn't been for him, his
whole army would have been lost! He wants you now."

"Let us go, then. Guide me. The shortest way. You're a free man, Julius. Act like one, freely.
Wounded,--Von Gelhorn's prisoner. Then at last he's mine again!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hers again! In the church she found him. In her arms he died.

And he said,--nor let us think it was with coward weakness blenching before the presence of
Death, shaming the day he died by a late repentance,--

"I have been deceived. But I deceived others. Who will forgive that? It is so hard for me to
forgive! You have fought your fight like a hero, loyal to the core, but I"----

Nevertheless, her kiss was on his dying lips. She forgave him. Must he, then, go out from her
presence into everlasting darkness?

WET-WEATHER WORK.

BY A FARMER.

V.

It is a pelting November rain. No leaves are left upon the branches but a few yellow flutterers
on the tips of the willows and poplars, and the bleached company that will be clinging to the
beeches and the white oaks for a month to come. All others are whipped away by the night-winds
into the angles of old walls, or are packed under low-limbed shrubberies, there to swelter
and keep warm the rootlets of the newly planted weigelias and spruces, until the snows and
February suns and April mists and May heats shall have transmuted them into fat and unctuous
mould. A close, pelting, unceasing rain, trying all the leaks of the mossy roof, testing all
the newly laid drains, pressing the fountain at my door to an exuberant gush,--a rain that
makes outside work an impossibility; and as I sit turning over the leaves of an old book of
engravings, wondering what drift my rainy-day's task shall take, I come upon a pleasant view
of Dovedale in Derbyshire, a little exaggerated, perhaps, in the luxuriance of its trees and
the depth of its shadows, but recalling vividly the cloudy April morning on which, fifteen
years agone, I left the inn of the "Green Man and Black Head," in the pretty town of Ashbourne,
and strolled away by the same road on which Mr. Charles Cotton opens his discourse of fishing
with Master "Viator," and plunged down the steep valley-side near to Thorpe, and wandered for
three miles and more, under towering crags, and on soft, spongy bits of meadow, beside the
blithe river where Walton had cast, in other days, a gray palmer-fly, past the hospitable hall
of the worshipful Mr. Cotton, and the wreck of the old fishing-house, over whose lintel was
graven in the stone the interlaced initials of "Piscator, Junior," and his great master of
the rod. As the rain began to patter on the sedges and the pools, I climbed out of the valley,
on the northward or Derbyshire side, and striding away through the heather, which belongs to
the rolling heights of this region, I presently found myself upon the great London and Manchester
highway. A broad and stately thoroughfare it had been in the old days of coaching, but now
a close, fine turf invested it all, save one narrow strip of Macadam in the middle. The mile-stones,
which had been showy, painted affairs of iron, were now deeply bitten and blotched with rust.
Two of them I had passed, without sight of house, or of other traveller, save one belated drover,
who was hurrying to the fair at Ashbourne; as I neared the third, a great hulk of building
appeared upon my left, with a crowd of aspiring chimneys, from which only one timid little
pennant of smoke coiled into the harsh sky.

The gray, inhospitable-looking pile proved to be one of the old coach-inns, which, with its
score of vacant chambers and huge stable-court, was left stranded upon the deserted highway
of travel. It stood a little space back from the road, so that a coach and four, or, indeed,
a half-dozen together, might have come up to the door-way in dashing style. But it must have
been many years since such a demand had been made upon the resources of bustling landlord and
of attendant grooms and waiters. The doors were tightly closed; even the sign-board creaked
uneasily in the wind, and a rampant growth of ivy that clambered over the porch so covered
it with leaves and berries that I could not at all make out its burden. I gave a sharp ring
to the bell, and heard the echo repeated from the deserted stable-court; there was the yelp
of a hound somewhere within, and presently a slatternly-dressed woman received me, and, conducting
me down a bare hall, showed me into a great dingy parlor, where a murky fire was struggling
in the grate. A score of roistering travellers might have made the stately parlor gay; and
I dare say they did, in years gone; but now I had only for company their heavy old arm-chairs,
a few prints of "fast coaches" upon the wall, and a superannuated greyhound, who seemed to
scent the little meal I had ordered, and presently stalked in and laid his thin nose, with
an appealing look, in my hands. His days of coursing--if he ever had them--were fairly over;
and I took a charitable pride in bestowing upon him certain tough morsels of the rump-steak,
garnished with horse-radish, with which I was favored for dinner.

I had intended to push on to Buxton the same afternoon; but the deliberate sprinkling of the
morning by two o'clock had quickened into a swift, pelting rain, the very counterpart of that
which is beating on my windows to-day. There was nothing to be done but to make my home of
the old coach-inn for the night; and for my amusement--besides the slumberous hound, who, after
dinner, had taken up position upon the faded rug lying before the grate--there was a "Bell's
Messenger" of the month past, and, as good luck would have it, a much-bethumbed copy of a work
on horticulture and kindred subjects, first printed somewhere about the beginning of the eighteenth
century, and entitled "The Clergyman's Recreation, showing the Pleasure and Profit of the Art
of Gardening," by the Reverend John Laurence.

It was a queer book to be found in this pretentious old coach-inn, with its silken bell-pulls
and stately parlors; and I thought how the roisterers who came thundering over the road years
ago, and chucked the bar-maids under the chin, must have turned up their noses, after their
pint of crusted Port, at the "Clergyman's Recreation." Yet, for all that, the book had a rare
interest for me, detailing, as it did, the methods of fruit-culture in England a hundred and
forty years ago, and showing with nice particularity how the espaliers could be best trained,
and how a strong infusion of walnut-leaf tea will destroy all noxious worms.

And now, when, upon this other wet day, and in the quietude of my own library, I come to measure
the claims of this ancient horticulturist to consideration, I find that he was the author of
some six or seven distinct works on kindred subjects, showing good knowledge of the best current
practice; and although he incurred the sneers of Mr. Tull, who hoped "he preached better than
he ploughed," there is abundant evidence that his books were held in esteem.

Contemporary with the Rev. Mr. Laurence were London and Wise, the famous horticulturists of
Brompton, (whose nursery, says Evelyn, "was the greatest work of the kind ever seen or heard
of, either in books or travels,") also Switzer, a pupil of the latter, and Professor Richard
Bradley.

Mr. London was the director of the royal gardens under William and Mary, and at one time had
in his charge some three or four hundred of the most considerable landed estates in England.
He was in the habit of riding some fifty miles a day to confer with his subordinate gardeners,
and at least two or three times in a season traversed the whole length and breadth of England,--and
this at a period, it must be remembered, when travelling was no holiday-affair, as is evident
from the mishaps which befell those well-known contemporaneous travellers of Fielding, Joseph
Andrews and Parson Adams. Traces of the work of Mr. London are to be seen even now in the older
parts of the grounds of Blenheim and of Castle Howard in Yorkshire.

Stephen Switzer was an accomplished gardener, well known by a great many horticultural and
agricultural works, which in his day were "on sale at his seed-shop in Westminster Hall." Chiefest
among these was the "Ichnographia Rustica," which gave general directions for the management
of country-estates, while it indulged in some prefatory magniloquence upon the dignity and
antiquity of the art of gardening. It is the first of all arts, he claims; for "tho' Chirurgery
may plead high, inasmuch as in the second chapter of Genesis that operation is recorded of
taking the rib from Adam, wherewith woman was made, yet the very current of the Scriptures
determines in favor of Gardening." It surprises us to find that so radical an investigator
should entertain the belief, as he clearly did, that certain plants were produced without seed
by the vegetative power of the sun acting upon the earth. He is particularly severe upon those
Scotch gardeners, "Northern lads," who, with "a little learning and a great deal of impudence,
know, or pretend to know, more in one twelvemonth than a laborious, honest South-country man
does in seven years."

His agricultural observations are of no special value, nor do they indicate any advance from
the practice of Worlidge. He deprecates paring and burning as exhaustive of the vegetable juices,
advises winter fallowing and marling, and affirms that "there is no superficies of earth, how
poor soever it may be, but has in its own bowels something or other for its own improvement."

In gardening, he expresses great contempt for the clipped trees and other excesses of the Dutch
school, yet advises the construction of terraces, lays out his ponds by geometric formulæ,
and is so far devoted to out-of-door sculpture as to urge the establishment of a royal institution
for the instruction of ingenious young men, who, on being taken into the service of noblemen
and gentlemen, would straightway people their grounds with statues. And this notwithstanding
Addison had published his famous papers on the "Pleasures of the Imagination" three years before.[5]

Richard Bradley was the Dr. Lardner of his day,--a man of general scientific acquirement, an
indefatigable worker, venturing hazardous predictions, writing some fifteen or twenty volumes
upon subjects connected with agriculture, foisting himself into the chair of Botany at Cambridge
by noisy reclamation, selling his name to the booksellers for attachment to other men's wares,[6]
and, finally, only escaping the indignity of a removal from his professor's chair by sudden
death, in 1732. Yet this gentleman's botanical dictionary ("Historia Plantarum," etc.) was
quoted respectfully by Linnæus, and his account of British cattle, their races, proper treatment,
etc., was, by all odds, the best which had appeared up to his time. The same gentleman, in
his "New Improvements of Planting and Gardening," lays great stress upon a novel "invention
for the more speedy designing of garden-plats," which is nothing more than an adaptation of
the principle of the kaleidoscope. The latter book is the sole representative of this author's
voluminous agricultural works in the Astor collection; and, strange to say, there are only
two in the library of the British Museum.

I take, on this dreary November day, (with my Catawbas blighted,) a rather ill-natured pleasure
in reading how the Duke of Rutland, in the beginning of the last century, was compelled to
"keep up fires from Lady-day to Michaelmas behind his sloped walls," in order to insure the
ripening of his grapes; yet winter grapes he had, and it was a great boast in that time. The
quiet country squires--such as Sir Roger de Coverley--had to content themselves with those
old-fashioned fruits which would struggle successfully with out-of-door fogs. Fielding tells
us that the garden of Mr. Wilson, where Parson Adams and the divine Fanny were guests, showed
nothing more rare than an alley bordered with filbert-bushes.[7]

In London and its neighborhood the gourmands fared better. Cucumbers, which in Charles's time
never came in till the close of May, were ready in the shops of Westminster (in the time of
George I.) in early March. Melons were on sale, for those who could pay roundly, at the end
of April; and the season of cauliflowers, which used to be limited to a single month, now reached
over a term of six months. Nor was this a small boast; for Lady Wortley Montague, describing
her entertainment at the table of the Elector of Hanover, in 1716, speaks of "pines" as a fruit
she had never seen before.

Ornamental gardening, too, was now changing its complexion. Dutch William was dead and buried.
Addison had written in praise of the natural disposition of the gardens of Fontainebleau, and,
at his place near Rugby, was carrying out, so far as a citizen might, the suggestions of those
papers to which I have already alluded. Milton was in better odor than he had been, and people
had begun to realize that an arch-Puritan might have exquisite taste. Possibly, too, cultivated
landholders had seen that charming garden-picture where the luxurious Tasso makes the pretty
sorceress Armida spread her nets.

Pope affected a respect for the views of Addison; but his Twickenham garden was a very stiff
affair. Bridgman was the first practical landscape-gardener who ventured to ignore old rules;
and he was followed closely by William Kent, a broken-down and unsuccessful landscape-painter,
who came into such vogue as a man of taste, that he was employed to fashion the furniture of
scores of country-villas; and Walpole[8] tells us that he was even beset by certain fine ladies
to design Birthday gowns for them:--"The one he dressed in a petticoat decorated with columns
of the five orders; the other, like a bronze, in a copper-colored satin, with ornaments of gold."

Clermont, the charming home of the exiled Orléans family, shows vestiges of the taste of Kent,
who always accredited very much of his love for the picturesque to the reading of Spenser.
It is not often that the poet of the "Faerie Queene" is mentioned as an educator.

And now let us leave gardens for a while, to discuss Mr. Jethro Tull, the great English cultivator
of the early half of the eighteenth century. I suspect that most of the gentry of his time,
and cultivated people, ignored Mr. Tull, he was so rash and so headstrong and so noisy. It
is certain, too, that the educated farmers, or, more strictly, the writing farmers, opened
battle upon him, and used all their art to ward off his radical tilts upon their old methods
of culture. And he fought back bravely; I really do not think that an editor of a partisan
paper to-day could improve upon him,--in vigor, in personality, or in coarseness.

Unfortunately, the biographers and encyclopædists who followed upon his period have treated
his name with a neglect that leaves but scanty gleanings for his personal history. His father
owned landed property in Oxfordshire, and Jethro was a University-man; he studied for the law,
(which will account for his address in a wordy quarrel,) made the tour of Europe, returned
to Oxfordshire, married, took the paternal homestead, and proceeded to carry out the new notions
which he had gained in his Southern travels. Ill health drove him to France a second time,
from which he returned once more, to occupy the famous "Prosperous Farm" in Berkshire; and
here he opened his batteries afresh upon the existing methods of farming. The gist of his proposed
reform is expressed in the title of his book, "The Horse-hoeing Husbandry." He believed in
the thorough tillage, at frequent intervals, of all field-crops, from wheat to turnips. To
make this feasible, drilling was, of course, essential; and to make it economical, horse labor
was requisite: the drill and the horse-hoe were only subsidiary to the main end of THOROUGH
TILLAGE.

Sir Hugh Platt, as we have seen, had before suggested dibbling, and Worlidge had contrived
a drill; but Tull gave force and point and practical efficacy to their suggestions. He gives
no credit, indeed, to these old gentlemen; and it is quite possible that his theory may have
been worked out from his own observations. He certainly gives a clear account of the growth
of his belief, and sustains it by a great many droll notions about the physiology of plants,
which would hardly be admissible in the botanies of to-day.

Shall I give a sample?

"Leaves," he says, "are the parts, or bowels of a plant, which perform the same office to sap
as the lungs of an animal do to blood; that is, they purify or cleanse it of the recrements,
or fuliginous steams, received in the circulation, being the unfit parts of the food, and perhaps
some decayed particles which fly off the vessels through which blood and sap do pass respectively."

It does not appear that the success of Tull upon "Prosperous Farm" was such as to give a large
warrant for its name. His enemies, indeed, alleged that he came near to sinking two estates
on his system; this, however, he stoutly denies, and says, "I propose no more than to keep
out of debt, and leave my estate behind me better than I found it. Yet, owned it must be, that,
had I, when I first began to make trials, known as much of the system as I do now, the practice
of it would have been more profitable to me." Farmers in other parts of England, with lands
better adapted to the new husbandry, certainly availed themselves of it, very much to their
advantage. Tull, like a great many earnest reformers, was almost always in difficulty with
those immediately dependent on him; over and over he insists upon the "inconveniency and slavery
attending the exorbitant power of husbandry servants and laborers over their masters." He quarrels
with their wages, and with the short period of their labor. Pray, what would Mr. Tull have
thought, if he had dealt with the Drogheda gentlemen in black satin waistcoats, who are to
be conciliated by the farmers of to-day?

I think I can fancy such an encounter for the querulous old reformer. "Mike! blast you, you
booby, you've broken my drill!" And Mike, (putting his thumb deliberately in the armlet of
his waistcoat,) "Meester Tull, it's not the loikes o' me'll be leestening to insoolting worrds.
I'll take me money, if ye plase." And with what a fury "Meester" Tull would have slashed away,
after this, at "Equivocus," and all his newspaper-antagonists!

I wish I could believe that Tull always told the exact truth; but he gives some accounts of
the perfection to which he had brought his drill to which I can lend only a most meagre trust;
and it is unquestionable that his theory so fevered his brain at last as to make him utterly
contemptuous of all old-fashioned methods of procedure. In this respect he was not alone among
reformers. He stoutly affirmed that tillage would supply the lack of manure, and his neighbors
currently reported that he was in the habit of dumping his manure carts in the river. This
charge Mr. Tull firmly denied, and I dare say justly. But I can readily believe that the rumors
were current; country-neighborhoods offer good starting-points for such lively scandal. The
writer of this paper has heard, on the best possible authority, that he is in the habit of
planting shrubs with their roots in the air.

In his loose, disputative way, and to magnify the importance of his own special doctrine, Tull
affirms that the ancients, and Virgil particularly, urged tillage for the simple purpose of
destroying weeds.[9] In this it seems to me that he does great injustice to our old friend
Maro. Will the reader excuse a moment's dalliance with the Georgics again?

    "Multum adeo, rastris glebas qui frangit inertes,
    Vimineasque trahit crates, juvat arva;...
    Et qui proscisso quæ suscitat æquore terga
    Rursus in obliquum verso perrumpit aratro,
    Exercetque frequens tellurem, atque imperat arvis."

That "imperat" looks like something more than weed-killing; it looks like subjugation; it looks
like pulverization at the hands of an imperious master.

But behind all of Tull's exaggerated pretension, and unaffected by the noisy exacerbation of
his speech, there lay a sterling good sense, and a clear comprehension of the existing shortcomings
in agriculture, which gave to his teachings prodigious force, and an influence measured only
by half a century of years. There were few, indeed, who adopted literally and fully his plans,
or who had the hardihood to acknowledge the irate Jethro as a teacher; yet his hints and his
example gave a stimulus to root-culture, and an attention to the benefits arising from thorough
and repeated tillage, that added vastly to the annual harvests of England. Bating the exaggerations
I have alluded to, his views are still reckoned sound; and though a hoed crop of wheat is somewhat
exceptional, the drill is now almost universal in the best cultivated districts; and a large
share of the forage-crops owe their extraordinary burden to horse-hoeing husbandry.

Even the exaggerated claims of Tull have had their advocates in these last days; and the energetic
farmer of Lois-Weedon, in Northamptonshire, is reported to be growing heavy crops of wheat
for a succession of years, without any supply of outside fertilizers, and relying wholly upon
repeated and perfect pulverization of the soil.[10] And Mr. Way, the distinguished chemist
of the Royal Society, in a paper on "The Power of Soils to absorb Manure,"[11] propounds the
question as follows:--"Is it likely, on theoretical considerations, that the air and the soil
together can by any means be made to yield, without the application of manure, and year after
year continuously, a crop of wheat of from thirty to thirty-five bushels per acre?" And his
reply is this:--"I confess I do not see why they should not do so." A practical farmer, however,
(who spends only his wet days in-doors,) would be very apt to suggest here, that the validity
of this dictum must depend very much on the original constituents of the soil.

Under the lee of the Coombe Hills, on the extreme southern edge of Berkshire, and not far removed
from the great highway leading from Bath to London, lies the farmery where this restless, petulant,
suffering, earnest, clear-sighted Tull put down the burden of life, a hundred and twenty years
ago. The house is unfortunately largely modernized, but many of the out-buildings remain unchanged;
and not a man thereabout, or in any other quarter, could tell me where the former occupant,
who fought so bravely his fierce battle of the drill, lies buried.

About the middle of the last century, there lived in the south of Leicestershire, in the parish
of Church-Langton, an eccentric and benevolent clergyman by the name of William Hanbury, who
conceived the idea of establishing a great charity which was to be supported by a vast plantation
of trees.

But the Reverend Hanbury was beset by aggressive and cold-hearted neighbors, among them two
strange old "gentlewomen," Mistress Pickering and Mistress Byrd, who malevolently ordered their
cattle to be turned loose into his first plantation of twenty thousand young and thrifty trees.
And not content with this, they served twenty-seven different copies of writs upon him in one
day, for trespass. Of all this he gives detailed account in his curious history of the "Charitable
Foundations at Church-Langton." He tells us that the "venomous rage" of these old ladies (who
died shortly after, worth a million of dollars) did not even spare his dogs; but that his pet
spaniel and greyhound were cruelly killed by a table-fork thrust into their entrails. Nay,
their game-keeper even buried two dogs alive, which belonged to his neighbor, Mr. Wade, a substantial
grazier.

The strange ladies who were guilty of this slaughter of innocents showed "a dying blaze of
goodness" by bequeathing twelve thousand pounds to charitable societies; and "thus ended,"
says Hanbury, "these two poor, unhappy, uncharitable, charitable old gentlewomen."

The good old man describes the beauty of plants and trees with the same delightful particularity
which he spent on his neighbors and the buried dogs.

I cannot anywhere learn whether or not the charity-plantation of Church-Langton is still thriving.

About this very time, Lancelot Brown, who was for a long period the kitchen-gardener at Stowe,
came into sudden notoriety by his disposition of the waters in Blenheim Park, where, in the
short period of one week, he created perhaps the finest artificial lake in the world. Its indentations
of shore, its bordering declivities of wood, and the graceful swells of land dipping to its
margin, remain now in very nearly the same condition in which Brown left them more than a hundred
years ago. All over England the new man was sent for; all over England he rooted out the mossy
avenues, and the sharp rectangularities, and laid down his flowing lines of walks, and of trees.
He (wisely) never contracted to execute his own designs, and--from lack of facility, perhaps--he
always employed assistants to draw his plans. But the quick eye which at first sight recognized
the "capabilities" of a place, and which leaped to the recognition of its matured graces, was
all his own. He was accused of sameness; but the man who at one time held a thousand lovely
landscapes unfolding in his thought could hardly give a series of contrasts without startling
affectations.

I mention the name of Lancelot Brown, however, not to discuss his merits, but as the principal
and largest illustrator of that taste in landscape-gardening which just now grew up in England,
out of a new reading of Milton, out of the admirable essays of Addison, out of the hints of
Pope, out of the designs of Kent, and which was stimulated by Gilpin, by Horace Walpole, and,
still more, by the delightful little landscapes of Gainsborough.

Enough will be found of Mr. Brown, and of his style, in the professional treatises, upon whose
province I do not now infringe. I choose rather, for the entertainment of my readers, if they
will kindly find it, to speak of that sad, exceptional man, William Shenstone, who, by the
beauties which he made to appear on his paternal farm of Leasowes, fairly rivalled the best
of the landscape-gardeners,--and who, by the graces and the tenderness which he lavished on
his verse, made no mean rank for himself at a time when people were reading the "Elegy" of
Gray, the Homer of Pope, and the "Cato" of Addison.

I think there can hardly be any doubt, however, that poor Shenstone was a wretched farmer;
yet the Leasowes was a capital grazing farm, when he took it in charge, within fair marketable
distance of both Worcester and Birmingham. I suspect that he never put his fine hands to the
plough-tail; and his plaintive elegy, that dates from an April day of 1743, tells, I am sure,
only the unmitigated truth:--

    "Again the laboring hind inverts the soil;
       Again the merchant ploughs the tumid wave;
    Another spring renews the soldier's toil,
       And finds me vacant in the rural cave."

Shenstone, like many another of the lesser poets, was unfortunate in having Dr. Johnson for
his biographer. It is hard to conceive of a man who would show less of tenderness for an elaborate
parterre of flowers, or for a poet who affectedly parted his gray locks on one side of his
head, wore a crimson waistcoat, and warbled in anapæstics about kids and shepherds' crooks.
Only fancy the great, snuffy, wheezing Doctor, with his hair-powder whitening half his shoulders,
led up before some charming little extravaganza of Boucher, wherein all the nymphs are simpering
marchionesses, with rosettes on their high-heeled slippers that out-color the sky! With what
a "Faugh!" the great gerund-grinder would thump his cane upon the floor, and go lumbering away!
And Shenstone, or rather his memory, caught the besom of just such a sneer.

But other critics were more kindly and appreciative; among them, Dodsley the bookselling author,
who wrote "The Economy of Human Life," (the "Proverbial Philosophy" of its day,) and Whately,
who gave to the public the most elegant and tasteful discussion of artificial scenery that
was perhaps ever written.

Shenstone studied, as much as so indolent a man ever could, at Pembroke College, Oxford. His
parents died when he was young, leaving to him a very considerable estate, which fortunately
some relative administered for him, until, owing to this supervisor's death, it lapsed into
the poet's improvident hands. Even then a sensible tenant of his own name, and a distant relative,
managed very snugly the farm of Leasowes; but when Shenstone came to live with him, neither
house nor grounds were large enough for the joint occupancy of the poet, who was trailing his
walks through the middle of the mowing, and of the tenant, who had his beeves to fatten and
his rental to pay.

So Shenstone became a farmer on his own account; and, according to all reports, a very sorry
account he made of it. The good soul had none of Mr. Tull's petulance and audacity with his
servants; if the ploughman broke his gear, I suspect the kind ballad-master allowed him a holiday
for the mending. The herdsman stared in astonishment to find the "beasts" ordered away from
their accustomed grazing-fields. A new thicket had been planted, which must not be disturbed;
the orchard was uprooted to give place to some parterre; a fine bit of meadow was flowed with
a miniature lake; hedges were shorn away without mercy; arbors, grottos, rustic seats, Arcadian
temples, sprang up in all outlying nooks; so that the annual product of the land came presently
to be limited, almost entirely, to the beauty of its disposition.

I think that the poet, unlike most, was never very thoroughly satisfied with his poems, and
that, therefore, the vanity possessed him to vest the sense of beauty which he felt tingling
in his blood in something more palpable than language. Hence came the charming walks and woods
and waters of Leasowes. With this ambition holding him and mastering him, what mattered a mouldy
grain-crop, or a debt? If he had only an ardent admirer of his walks, his wilderness, his grottos,--this
was his customer. He longed for such, in troops,--as a poet longs for readers, and as a farmer
longs for sun and rain.

And he had them. I fancy there was hardly a cultivated person in England, but, before the death
of Shenstone, had heard of the rare beauty of his home of Leasowes. Lord Lyttleton, who lived
near by, at the elegant seat of Hagley, brought over his guests to see what miracles the hare-brained,
sensitive poet had wrought upon his farm. And I can fancy the proud, shy creature watching
from his lattice the company of distinguished guests,--maddened, if they look at his alcove
from the wrong direction,--wondering if that shout that comes booming to his sensitive ear
means admiration, or only an unappreciative surprise,--dwelling on the memory of the visit,
as a poet dwells on the first public mention of his poem. In his "Egotisms," (well named,)
he writes,--"Why repine? I have seen mansions on the verge of Wales that convert my farm-house
into a Hampton Court, and where they speak of a glazed window as a great piece of magnificence.
All things figure by comparison."

And this reflection, with its flavor of philosophy, was, I dare say, a sweet morsel to him.
He saw very little of the world in his later years, save that part of it which at odd intervals
found its way to the delights of Leasowes; indeed, he was not of a temper to meet the world
upon fair terms. "The generality of mankind," he cynically says, "are seldom in good humor
but whilst they are imposing upon you in some shape or other."[12]

Our farmer of Leasowes published a pastoral that was no way equal to the pastoral he wrote
with trees, walks, and water upon his land; yet there are few cultivated readers who have not
some day met with it, and been beguiled by its mellifluous seesaw. How its jingling resonance
comes back to me to-day from the "Reader" book of the High School!

And what a killing look over at the girl in the corner, in check gingham, with blue bows in
her hair, as I read (always on the old school-benches),--

    "I have heard her with sweetness unfold
      How that pity was due to--a dove:
    That it ever attended the bold;
      And she called it the sister of love.
    But her words such a pleasure convey,
      So much I her accents adore,
    Let her speak, and whatever she say,
      Methinks I should love her the more."

There is a rhythmic prettiness in this; but it is the prettiness of a lover in his teens, and
not the kind we look for from a man who stood five feet eleven in his stockings, and wore his
own gray hair. Strangely enough, Shenstone had the physique of a ploughman or a prize-fighter,
and with it the fine, sensitive brain of a woman; a Greek in his refinements, and a Greek in
indolence. I hope he gets on better in the other world than he ever did in this.

ON THE RELATION OF ART TO NATURE.

IN TWO PARTS.

PART II.

The repulsive ugliness of the early Christian paintings was not the consequence of any break
in the tradition. There was no reason why the graceful drawing of the human figure should not
have been transmitted, as well as the technical procedures and the pigments. Nor was effort
wanting: these pictures were often very elaborate and splendid in execution. But it is clear
that grace and resemblance to anything existing, so far from being aimed at, were intentionally
avoided. Even as late as the thirteenth century we find figures with blue legs and red bodies,--the
horses in a procession blue, red, and yellow. Any whim of association, or fanciful color-pattern,
was preferred to beauty or correctness. Likeness to actual things seemed to be regarded, indeed,
as an unavoidable evil, to be restricted as far as possible. The problem was, to show God's
omnipresence in the world, especially His appearance on the earth as man, and His abiding presence
in holy men and women as an inspiration obliterating their humanity. But so long as the divine
and the human are looked upon as essentially opposed, their union can be by miracle only, and
the first thought must be to keep prominent this miraculousness, and guard against confusion
of this angelic existence with every-day reality. The result is this realm of ghosts, at home
neither in heaven nor on earth, neither presuming to be spirit nor condescending to be body,
but hovering intermediate. But the more strongly the antithesis is felt, the nearer the thought
to end this remaining tenderness for the gross and unspiritual,--to drop this ballast of earth,
and rise into the region of heavenly realities. Upon a window of Canterbury Cathedral, beneath
a representation of the miracle of Cana, is the legend,--"Lympha dat historiam, vinum notat
allegoriam." But if the earthly is there only for the sake of this heavenly transmutation,--if
the miracle, and the miracle alone, shows God's purpose accomplished,--then all things must
be miraculous, for all else may be safely ignored. Henceforth, nothing is of itself profane,
for the profane is only that wherein the higher and truer sense has not yet been recognized.
What is demanded is not an exceptional transmutation, but a translation,--that all Nature should
be interpreted of the spirit.

The result is, on the one hand, a greater license in dealing with actual forms, since Art sees
all things on one level of dignity,--respects one no more than another, but only its own purpose,--is
careless of material qualities, and of moral qualities, too, as far as they are bound to particular
shapes. Why dwell tediously upon one particle, when the value of it consists not in its particularity,
but in its harmony with the rest of the universe? Giotto seems to make short work with the
human form divine by wrapping all his figures from head to foot in flowing draperies. But these
figures have more humanity in them, stand closer to us, because the meaning is no longer petrified
in the shape, but speaks to us freely and directly, in a look, a gesture, a sweep of the garment.
The Greek said,--"With these superhuman lineaments you are to conceive the presence of Jove;
these are the appropriate forms of the immortals." Giotto said,--"See what divine meanings
in every-day faces and actions; with these eyes you are to look upon the people in the street."
The one is a remote and incredible perfection,--the other, the intimate reality of the actual
and present. It is, in truth, therefore, a closer approach to Nature than was before possible.
The artist no longer shuns full actuality for his conception, for he fears no confusion with
the actual. For instance, from the earliest times the celestial nature of angels had been naïvely
intimated by appending wings to them. There was no attempt to carry out the suggestion, or
to show the mechanical possibility of it, for that would be only to make winged men. The painters
of the sixteenth century, on the other hand, from a nervous dread lest wings should prove insufficient,
establish a sure basis of clouds for their angels, with more and more emphasis of buoyancy
and extent, until at last, no longer trusting their own statement, they settle the question
by showing them from below, already risen, and so choke off the doubt whether they can rise.
But Orcagna's angels float without assistance or effort, by their own inherent lightness, as
naturally as we walk. They are not out of their element, but bring their element with them.
These are not men caught up into the skies, and do not need to be sustained there. The world
they inhabit is not earth in heaven, but heaven on earth,--the earth seen in accordance with
the purpose of its existence.

Giotto's fellow-citizens were struck with the new interest which the language of attitude and
gesture and all the familiar details of life acquired in his representation of them. Looking
around them, they saw what they had been taught to see, and concluded it was only an unexampled
closeness of copying. No doubt Giotto thought so, too,--but had that been all, we should not
have heard of it. It is this new interest that has to be accounted for. The charm did not lie
in the fact, nor in the reproduction of it in the picture, but in a sudden sense of its value
as expression, resting on a still obscurer feeling that herein lay its whole value,--that the
actual is not what it seems, still less a pure delusion, but that it is pure seeming, so that
its phenomenal character is no reproach, but the bond that connects it with reality. Just because
it is only "the outward show," and does not pretend to be anything more, what it shows is not
"the things that only seem," but the things that are. The attractiveness of beauty is due to
the sense of higher affinities in the object; it is finality felt, but not comprehended, so
that the form shines with the splendor of a purpose that belongs not to it, but to the whole
whereof it is a part. Aristotle makes wonder the forerunner of science. So our admiration of
beauty is a tribute paid in advance to the fresh insight it promises. Whether it be called
miracle or inspiration, the artist must see his theme as something excellent and singular.
This is perhaps that "strangeness" which Lord Bacon requires in all "excellent beauty," the
new significance coming direct, and not through reflection, and therefore ineffable and incomparable.
That Giotto and his successors went on for two hundred years painting saints and miracles was
not because the Church so ordained, nor from any extraordinary devoutness of the artists, but
because they still needed an outward assurance that what they did was not the petty triviality
it seemed. There must always remain the sense of an ulterior, undeveloped meaning; when that
is laid bare, Art has become superfluous, and makes haste to withdraw into obscure regions.
For it is only as language that the picture or the statue avails anything, and this circumstantiality
of expression is tolerable only so long as it is the only expression. Beauty is an honor to
matter; but spirit, the source of beauty, is impatient of such measure of it as Art can give.
As, in the legend, Eurydice, the dawn, sinks back into night at the look of the arisen sun,
so this lovely flush of the dawning intelligence wanes before the eye of the intellect. The
picture is a help so long as it transcends previous conception; but when the mind comes up
with these sallies, and the picture is compared with the idea, it sinks back into a thing.
Thenceforth it takes rank with Nature, and falls victim to the natural laws. It is only an
aspect and an instant,--not eternal, but a petty persistence,--not God, but an idol,--not the
saint, but his flesh and integuments.

Shall we say, then, that beauty is an illusion? Certainly it is no falsity; we may call it
provisional truth,--truth at a certain stage, as appearance, not yet as idea. It is appearance
seen as final, as the highest the mind has reached. Hence its miraculousness. It is in advance
of consciousness; we cannot account for it any more than the savage could account for his fetich,--why
this bunch of rags and feathers should be more venerable to him than other rags and feathers.
But to deny that the impressiveness it adds to matter comes from a deeper sense of the truth
would be as unwise as for him to deny his fetich. The fetich is false, not as compared with
other rags and feathers, but as compared with a higher conception of God. The falsity is not
that he sees God in this rubbish, but that he does not see Him elsewhere. Coleridge said that
a picture is something between a thought and a thing. It must keep the mean; either extreme
is fatal. Plato makes Eros intermediate between wisdom and ignorance, born of unequal parentage,
neither mortal nor immortal, forever needy, forever seeking the Psyche whom he can never meet
face to face.

The history of Art has a certain analogy to the growth of the corals. Like them, it seeks the
light which it cannot endure. A certain depth beneath the surface is most favorable to it,--a
dim, midway region of twilight and calm, remote alike from the stagnant obscurity of mere sensation
and from the agitated surface of day, the dry light of the intellect. When it is laid bare,
it dies,--its substance, indeed, enduring as the basis of new continents, but the life gone,
and only the traces of its action left in the stony relics of the past. Greek Art perished
when its secret was translated into clearer language by Plato and Aristotle; and Duccio and
Cimabue and Giotto must go the same way as soon as St. Francis of Assisi or Luther or Calvin
puts into words what they meant. It is its own success that is fatal to Art; for just in proportion
as the expressiveness it insists upon is shown to be pervading, universal, and not the property
of this or that shape, the particular manifestation is degraded. Color and form are due to
partial opacity; the light must penetrate to a certain depth, but not throughout.

The name of Giotto has come to stand for Devotional Art, for an earnestness that subordinates
all display to the sacredness of the theme. But his fellow-citizens knew him for a man of quick
worldly wit, who despised asceticism, and was ready with the most audacious jokes, even at
sacred things. Ghiberti and Cennini do not praise him for piety, but for having "brought Art
back to Nature" and "translated it from Greek into Latin,"--that is, from the language of clerks
into the vernacular. It is not anything special in the intention that gives Giotto his fame,
but the freedom, directness, and variety of the language with which it is expressed. The effort
to escape from traditional formulas and conventional shapes often makes itself felt at the
expense even of beauty. Instead of the statuesque forms of the earlier time, it is the dramatic
interest that is now prominent,--the composition, the convergent action of numerous figures,
separately, perhaps, insignificant, but pervaded by a common emotion that subordinates all
distinctions and leaves itself alone visible. Even in the traditional groups, as, for instance,
the Holy Families, etc., the aim is more complete realization, in draperies, gestures, postures,
rather than beauty of form. We miss in Giotto much that had been attained before him. What
Madonna of his can rank with Giovanni Pisano's? The Northern cathedral-sculptures, even some
of the Byzantine carvings, have a dignity that is at least uncommon in his pictures. Especially
the faces are generally wooden,--destitute alike of individuality and of the loveliness of
Duccio's and even of some of Cimabue's. On the other hand, in the picture wherein the school
attained, perhaps, its highest success as to beauty of the faces, Orcagna's "Paradise" at Santa
Maria Novella, the blessed are ranged in row above row, with mostly no relation to each other
but juxtaposition. We see here two directions,--one in continuation of the antique, seeking
beauty as the property of certain privileged forms, the other as the hidden possibility that
pervades all things. One or the other must abate something: either the image must become less
sacred, or the meaning narrower; for the language of painting is not figurative, like the language
of poetry, but figure, and unless the form bear on its face that it is not all that is meant,
its inherent limitations are transferred to the thought itself. When Dante tells us that Brunetto
Latini and his companions looked at him,--

    "Come vecchio sartor fa nella cruna,"

it is the intensity of the gaze that is present with us, not the old tailor and his needle.
But in Painting the image is usurping and exclusive.

Of these divergent tendencies it is easy to see which must conquer. The gifts of the spirit
are more truly honored as the birthright of humanity than as the property of this or that saint.
The worship of the Madonna is better than the worship of Athene just so far as the homage is
paid to a sentiment and not to a person. Now the Madonna, too, must come down from her throne.
The painters grew tired of painting saints and angels. Giotto already had diverged from the
traditional heads and draperies, and begun to put his figures into the Florentine dress. Masaccio
and Filippino Lippi brought their fellow-citizens into their pictures. Soon the Holy Family
is only a Florentine matron with her baby. The sacred histories are no longer the end, but
only the excuse; everything else is insisted on rather than the pretended theme. The second
Nicene Council had declared that "the designing of the holy images was not to be left to the
invention of artists, but to the approved legislation and tradition of the Catholic Church."
But now the Church had to take a great deal that it had not bargained for. Perspective, chiaroscuro,
picturesque contrast and variety, and all that belongs to the show of things, without regard
to what they are,--this is now the religion of Art.

These things may seem to us rather superficial, and Art to have declined from its ancient dignity.
But see how they took hold of men, and what men they took hold of. In the midst of that bloody
and shameless fifteenth century, when only force seems sacred, men hunted these shadows as
if they were wealth and power. Paolo Uccello could not be got away from his drawing to his
meals or his rest, and only replied to his wife's remonstrances, "Ah, this perspective is so
delightful!" With what ardor Mantegna and Luca Signorelli seized upon a new trait or action!
Leonardo da Vinci, "the first name of the fifteenth century," a man to whom any career was
open, and who seemed almost equally fit for any, never walked the streets without a sketch-book
in his hand, and was all his life long immersed in the study of Appearance, with a persistent
scrutiny that is revealed by his endless caricatures and studies, but perhaps by nothing more
clearly than by his incidental discovery of the principle of the stereoscope, which he describes
in his treatise on Painting. This was no learned curiosity, nor the whim of seeing the universe
under drill, but only a clearer instinct of what the purpose of Art is, namely, to see the
reality of the actual world in and as the appearance, instead of groping for some ulterior
reality hidden behind it. Leonardo has been called the precursor of Bacon. Certainly the conviction
that underlies this passion for the outside of things is the same in both,--the firm belief
that the truth is not to be sought in some remote seventh heaven, but in a truer view of the
universe about us.

Donatello told Paolo Uccello that he was leaving the substance for the show. But the painter
doubtless felt that the show was more real than any such "substance." For it is the finite
taken as what it truly is, nothing in itself, but only the show of the infinite. If it seem
shadowy and abstract, it is to be considered with what it is compared. What an abstraction
is depends on what is taken away and what left behind. For instance, the Slavery question in
our politics is sometimes termed an abstraction. Yes, surely, if the dollar is almighty, is
the final reality,--if peace and comfort are alone worth living for,--then the Slavery question
and several other things are abstractions. So in the world of matter, if the chemical results
are the reality of it, the appearance may well be considered as an abstraction. But this is
not the view of Art; Art has never magnified the materiality of the finite; on the contrary,
its history is only the record of successive attempts to dispose of matter, the failure always
lying in the hasty effort to abolish it altogether in favor of an immaterial principle outside
of it, something behind the phenomena, like Kant's noumenon,--too fine to exist, yet unable
to dispense with existence, and so, after all, not spirit, but only a superfine kind of matter;
or as in a picture in the Campo Santo at Pisa, where the world is figured as a series of concentric
circles, held up like a shield by God standing behind it.

It may be asked, Was not the appearance, and this alone, from all time, the object of Art?
But so long as the figment of a separate reality of the finite is kept up, an antagonism subsists
between this and truth, and the appearance cannot be frankly made the end, but has only an
indirect, derivative value. In the classic it was the human form in superhuman perfection;
in the early Christian Art, God condescending to inhabit human shape; in each case, what is
given is felt to be negative to the reality,--a fiction, not the truth.

But now the antagonism falls away, and the truth of Art is felt to be a higher power of the
truth of Nature. Perspective puts the mind in the place of gravitation as the centre, thus
naïvely declaring mind and not matter to be the substance of the universe. It will see only
this, feeling well that there is no other reality. It may be said that Perspective is as much
an outward material fact as any other. So it is, as soon as the point of sight is fixed. The
mind alters nothing, but gives to the objects that coherency that makes them into a world.
The universe has no existence for the idiot, not because it is not there, but because he makes
no image of it, or, as we say, does not mind it. The point of sight is the mark of a foregone
action of the mind; what is embraced in it is seen together, because it belongs to one conception.
The effect can be simulated to a certain extent by mechanical contrivance; but before the rules
of perspective were systematized, the perspective of a picture betrays its history, tells how
much of it was seen together, and what was added. Even late in the fifteenth century pictures
are still more or less mosaics,--their piecemeal origin confessed by slight indications in
the midst even of very advanced technical skill. Thus, in Antonio Pollaiuolo's "Three Archangels,"
in the Florence Academy,--three admirably drawn figures, abreast, and about equally distant
from the frame, the line of the right wing touches the head at the same point in each, with
no allowance for their different relations to the centre of the picture.

But there is a deeper kind of perspective, not so easily manufactured, though the manufacture
of this, too, is often attempted, namely, Composition. The true ground of perspective in a
picture is not a mechanical arrangement of lines, but a definite vision,--an affection of the
painter by the subject, the net result of it in his mind, instantaneous and complete. It is
a mistake to suppose that Composition is anything arbitrary,--that in the landscape out-of-doors
we see the world as God made it, but in the picture as the painter makes it. Composition is
nothing but the logic of vision; an uncomposed view is no more possible than an unlogical sentence.
The eyes convey in each case what the mind is able to grasp,--no less, no more. As to any particular
work, it is always a question of fact what it amounts to; the composition may be shallow, it
may be bad,--the work of the understanding, not of the imagination,--put together, instead
of seen together. But a picture without composition would be the mathematical point. Mr. Ruskin
thinks any sensible person would exchange his pictures, however good, for windows through which
he could see the scenes themselves. This does not quite meet the point, for it may be only
a preference of quantity to quality. The window gives an infinitude of pictures; the painter,
whatever his merit, but one. A fair comparison would be to place by the side of the Turner
drawing a photograph of the scene, which we will suppose taken at the most favorable moment,
and complete in color as well as light and shade. Whoever should then prefer the photograph
must be either more of a naturalist than an artist, or else a better artist than Turner. The
photograph, supposing it to be perfect in its way, gives what is seen at a first glance, only
with the optical part of the process expanded over the whole field, instead of being confined
to one point, as the eye is. The picture in it is the first glance of the operator, as he selected
it; whatever delicacy of detail told in the impression on his mind tells in the impression
on the plate; whatever is more than that does not go to increase the richness of the result,
as picture, but belongs to another sphere. The landscape-photographs that we have lately had
in such admirable perfection, however they may overpower our judgment at first sight, will,
I believe, be found not to wear well; they have really less in them than even second-rate drawings,
and therefore are sooner exhausted. The most satisfactory results of the photograph are where
the subject is professedly a fragment, as in near foliage, tree-trunks, stone-texture; or where
the mind's work is already done, and needs only to be reflected, as in buildings, sculpture,
and, to a certain extent, portrait,--as far as the character has wrought itself into the clothes,
habitual attitude, etc. Is not the popularity of the small full-length portrait-photographs
owing to the predominance they give to this passive imprint of the mind's past action upon
externals over its momentary and elusive presence? It is to the fillip received from the startling
likeness of trivial details, exciting us to supply what is deficient in more important points,
that is to be ascribed the leniency to the photograph on the part of near relatives and friends,
who are usually hard to please with a painted likeness.

But all comparisons between the photograph and the hand-drawn picture are apt to be vitiated
by the confusion of various extraneous interests with a purely artistic satisfaction resting
in the thing itself. It is the old fallacy, involved in all the comparisons of Art with Nature.
Of course, at bottom the interest is always that of the indwelling idea. But the question is,
whether we stop at the outside, the material texture, or pass at once to the other extreme,
the thought conveyed, or whether the two sides remain undistinguished. In the latter case only
is our enjoyment strictly æsthetic, that is, attached to the bare perception of this particular
thing; in the others, it is not this thing that prevails, but the physical or moral qualities,
the class to which it belongs. It is true all these qualities play in and influence or even
constitute the impression that particular works of Art make upon us. One man admires a picture
for its handling, its surface, the way in which the paint is laid on; another, for its illustration
of the laws of physiognomy; another, because it reminds him of the spring he spent in Rome,
the pleasant people he met there, etc. We do not always care to distinguish the sources of
the pleasure we feel; but for any criticism we must quit these accidents and personalities,
and attend solely to that in the work which is unique, peculiar to it, that in which it suggests
nothing, and associates itself with nothing, but refuses to be classed or distributed. This
may not be the most important aspect of the thing represented, nor the deepest interest that
a picture can have; but here, strictly speaking, lies all the beauty of it. The photograph
has or may have a certain value of this kind, but a little time is needful before we discriminate
what is general and what is special. Its extraneous interest, as specimen, as instance only,
tends at once to abate from the first view, as the mind classifies and disposes of it. What
remains, not thus to be disposed of, is its value as picture. Under this test, the photograph,
compared with works of Art of a high order, will prove wanting in substance, thin and spotty,
faulty in both ways, too full and too empty. For the result in each case must be proportionate
to the impression that it echoes; but this, in the work of the artist, is reinforced by all
his previous study and experience, as well as by the force and delicacy which his perception
has over that of other men. It is thus really more concrete, has more in it, than the actual scene.

But when Composition is decried as artificial, what is meant is that it is artifice. It must
be artificial, in the sense that all is there for the sake of the picture. But it is not to
be the contrivance of the painter; the purpose must be in the work, not in his head. Diotima,
in Plato's "Banquet," tells Socrates that Eros desires not the beautiful, but to bring forth
in the beautiful; the creative impulse itself must be the motive, not anything ulterior. We
require of the artist that he shall build better than he knows,--that his work shall not be
the statement of his opinions, however correct or respectable, but an infinity, inexhaustible
like Nature. He is to paint, as Turner said, only his impressions, and this precisely because
they are not his, but stand outside of his will. To further this, to get the direct action
of the artist's instinct, clear of the meddling and patching of forethought and afterthought,
is no doubt the aim of the seemingly careless, formless handling now in vogue,--the dash which
Harding says makes all the difference between what is good and what is intolerable in water-colors,--and
the palette-knife-and-finger procedure of the French painters.

The sin of premeditated composition is that it is premeditated; the why and wherefore is of
less consequence. If the motive be extraneous to the work, a theory, not an instinct, it does
not matter much how high it is. It is fatal to beauty to see in the thing only its uses,--in
the tree only the planks, in Niagara only the water-power; but a reverence for the facts themselves,
or even for the moral meaning of them, so far as it is consciously present in the artist's
mind, is just so far from the true intent of Art. This is the bane of the modern German school,
both in landscape and history. They are laborious, learned, accurate, elevated in sentiment;
Kaulbach's pictures, for instance, are complete treatises upon the theme, both as to the conception
and the drawing, grouping, etc.; but it is mostly as treatises that they have interest. So
the allegories in Albert Dürer's "Melancholia" are obstructive to it as a work of Art, and
just in proportion to their value as thoughts.

The moral meaning in a picture, and its fidelity to fact, may each serve as measure of its
merit after it is done. They must each be there, for its aim is to express after its own fashion
the reality that lurks in every particle of matter. But it is for the spectator to see them,
not the artist, and it is talking at cross-purposes to make either the motive,--to preach morality
to Art, or to require from the artist an inventory of the landscape. That five or ten million
pines grow in a Swiss valley is no reason why every one of them should be drawn. No doubt every
one of them has its reason for being there, and it is conceivable that an exhaustive final
statement might require them all to be shown. But there are no final statements in this world,
least of all in Art. There are many things besides pines in the valley, and more important,
and they can be drawn meanwhile. Besides, if all the pines, why not every pebble and blade
of grass?

The earnestness that attracts us in mediæval Art, the devout fervor of the earlier time and
the veracity of the later, the deference of the painter to his theme, is profoundly interesting
as history, but it was conditioned also by the limitations of that age. The mediæval mind was
oppressed by a sense of the foreignness and profaneness of Nature. The world is God's work,
and ruled by Him; but it is not His dwelling-place, but only His foot-stool. The Divine spirit
penetrates into the world of matter at certain points and to a certain depth, does not possess
and inhabit it now and here, but only elsewhere and at a future time, in heaven, and at the
final Judgment; and meantime the Church and the State are to maintain His jurisdiction over
this outlying province as well as they can. The actual presence of God in the world would seem
to drag Him down into questionable limitations, not to be assumed without express warrant,
as exception, miracle, and in things consecrated and set apart. Hence the patchwork composition
of the early painters; we see in it an extreme diversity of value ascribed to the things about
them. It is a world partly divine and partly rubbish; not a universe, but a collection of fragments
from various worlds. The figures in their landscapes do not tread the earth as if they belonged
there, but like actors upon a stage, tricked up for the occasion. The earth is a desert upon
which stones have been laid and herbs stuck into the crevices. The trees are put together out
of separate leaves and twigs, and the rocks and mountains inserted like posts. In the earliest
specimens the figures themselves have the same piecemeal look: their members are not born together,
but put together. We see just how far the soul extends into them,--sometimes only to the eyes,
then to the rest of the features, afterwards to the limbs and extremities. Evidently the artist's
conception left much outside of it, to be added by way of label or explanation. In the trees,
the care is to give the well-known fruit, the acorn or the apple, not the character of the
tree; for what is wanted is only an indication what tree is meant. The only tie between man
and the material world is the use he makes of it, elaborating and turning it into something
it was not. Hence the trim orderliness of the mediæval landscape. Dante shows no love of the
woods or the mountains, but only dread and dislike, and draws his tropes from engineering,
from shipyards, moats, embankments.

The mediæval conception is higher than the antique; it recognizes a reality beyond the immediate,
but not yet that it is the reality of the immediate and present also. But Art must dislodge
this phantom of a lower, profane reality, and accept its own visions as authentic and sufficient.
The modern mind is in this sense less religious than the mediæval, that the antithesis of phenomenal
and real is less present to it. But the pungency of this antithesis comes from an imperfect
realization of its meaning. Just so far as the subjection of the finite remains no longer a
postulate or an aspiration, but is carried into effect,--its finiteness no longer resisted
or deplored, but accepted,--just so far it ceases to be opaque and inert. The present seems
trivial and squalid, because it is clutched and held fast,--the fugitive image petrified into
an idol or a clod. But taken as it is, it becomes transparent, and reveals the fair lines of
the ideal.

The complaints of want of earnestness, devoutness, in modern Art, are as short-sighted as Schiller's
lament over the prosaic present, as a world bereft of the gods. It is a loss to which we can
well resign ourselves, that we no longer see God throned on Olympus, or anywhere else outside
of the world. It is no misfortune that the mind has recognized under these alien forms a spirit
akin to itself, and therefore no longer gives bribes to Fate by setting up images to it. The
deity it worships is thenceforth no longer powerless to exist, nor is there any existence out
of him; it needs not, then, to provide a limbo for him in some sphere of abstraction. What
has fled is not the divinity, but its false isolation, its delegation to a corner of the universe.
Instead of the god with his whims, we have law universal, the rule of mind, to which matter
is not hostile, but allied and affirmative. That the sun is no longer the chariot of Helios,
but a gravitating fireball, is only the other side of the perception that it is mind embodied,
not some unrelated entity for which a charioteer must be deputed.

We no longer worship groves and fountains, nor Madonnas and saints, and our Art accordingly
can no longer have the fervency, since its objects have not the concreteness, that belonged
to former times. But it is to be noticed that Art can be devout only in proportion as Religion
is artistic,--that is, as matter, and not spirit, is the immediate object of worship. Art and
Religion spring from the same root, but coincide only at the outset, as in fetichism, the worship
of the Black Stone of the Caaba, or the wonder-working Madonnas of Italy. The fetich is at
once image and god; the interest in the appearance is not distinct from the interest in the
meaning. It needs neither to be beautiful nor to be understood. But as the sense springs up
of a related mind in the idol, the two sides are separated. It is no longer this thing merely,
but, on the one hand, spirit, above and beyond matter, and, on the other, the appearance, equally
self-sufficing and supreme among earthly things, just because its reality is not here, but
elsewhere,--appearance, therefore, as transcendent, or Beauty.

To every age the religion of the foregoing seems artificial, incumbered with forms, and its
Art superstitious, over-scrupulous, biased by considerations that have nothing to do with Art.
Hence religious reformers are mystics, enthusiasts: this is the look of Luther, even of the
hard-headed Calvin, as seen from the Roman-Catholic side. Hence, also, every epoch of revolution
in Art seems to the preceding like an irruption of frivolity and profanity. Christian Art would
have seemed so to the ancients; the Realism of the fourteenth century must have seemed so to
the Giotteschi and the Renaissance, to both. The term Pre-Raphaelitism, though it seems an
odd collocation to bring together such men as Frà Angelico, Filippo Lippi, and Luca Signorelli,
has so far an intelligible basis, that all this period, from Giotto to Raphael, amidst all
diversities, is characterized throughout by a deference of Art to something extraneous. It
is not beauty that Frà Angelico looks for, but holiness, or beauty as expressing this; it is
not beauty that draws Filippo Lippi, but homely actuality. It is from this point of view that
the Renaissance has been attacked as wanting in faith, earnestness, humility. The Renaissance
had swallowed all formulas. Nothing was in itself sacred, but all other considerations were
sacrificed to the appeal to the eye. But this, so far from proving any "faithlessness," shows,
on the contrary, an entire faith in their Art, that it was able to accomplish what was required
of it, and needed not to be bolstered up by anything external. Mr. Ruskin wants language to
express his contempt for Claude, because, in a picture entitled "Moses at the Burning Bush,"
he paints only a graceful landscape, in which the Bush is rather inconspicuous. But Claude
might well reply, that what he intended was not a history, nor a homily, but a picture; that
the name was added for convenience' sake, as he might name his son, John, without meaning any
comparisons with the Evangelist. It is no defect, but a merit, that it requires nothing else
than itself to explain it.

Claude depicts "an unutilized earth," whence all traces of care, labor, sorrow, rapine, and
want,--all that can suggest the perils and trials of life,--is removed. The buildings are palaces
or picturesque ruins; the personages promenade at leisure, or only pretend to be doing something.
All action and story, all individuality of persons, objects, and events, is merged in a pervading
atmosphere of tranquil, sunny repose,--as of a holiday-afternoon. It may seem to us an idle
lubberland, a paradise of do-nothings;--Mr. Ruskin sees in it only a "dim, stupid, serene,
leguminous enjoyment." But whoever knows Rome will at least recognize in Claude's pictures
some reflex of that enchantment that still hangs over the wondrous city, and draws to it generation
after generation of pilgrims. In what does the mysterious charm consist? Is it not that the
place seems set apart from the working-day world of selfish and warring interests? that here
all manner of men, for once, lay aside their sordid occupations and their vulgar standards,
to come together on the ground of a common humanity? It is easy to sneer at the Renaissance,
but to understand it we must take it in its connection. The matters that interested that age
seem now superfluous, the recreations of a holiday rather than the business of life. But coming
from the dust and din of the fifteenth century, it looks differently. It was, in whatever dim
or fantastic shape, a recognition of universal brotherhood,--of a common ground whereon all
mankind could meet in peace and even sympathy, were it only for a picnic. In this villeggiatura
of the human race the immediate aim is no very lofty one,--not truth, not duty, but to please
or be pleased. But who is it that is to be pleased? Not the great of the earth, not the consecrated
of the Church, not the men merely of this guild or this nation, but Man. It is the festival
of the new saint, Humanus,--a joyful announcement that the ancient antagonism is not fundamental,
but destined to be overcome.

This dreamy, half-sad, but friendly and soothing influence, that breathes from Claude's landscapes,
is not the highest that Nature can inspire, but it is far better than to see in the earth only
food, lodging, and a place to fight in, or even mere background and filling-in.

The builders of the Rhine-castles looked down the reaches of the river only to spy out their
prey or their enemy; the monks in their quiet valleys looked out for their trout-stream and
kitchen-garden, but any interest beyond that would have been heathenish and dangerous. Whilst
to the ancients the earth had value only as enjoyable, inhabitable, the earlier Christian ages
valued it only as uninhabitable, as a wilderness repelling society. In the earliest mediæval
landscapes, the effort to represent a wilderness that is there only for the sake of the hermits
leads to the curious contradiction of a populous hermitage, every part of it occupied by figures
resolutely bent on being alone, and sedulously ignoring the others. Humboldt quotes from the
early Fathers some glowing descriptions of natural scenery, but they turn always upon the seclusion
from mankind, and upon the contrast between the grandeur of God's works and the littleness
of ours. But in Claude we have the hint, however crude, of a relation as unsordid as this,
but positive and direct,--the soul of the landscape speaking at once to the soul of man,--showing
itself cognate, already friendly, and needing only to throw off the husk of opposition. The
defect is not that he defers too much to the purely pictorial, that he postpones the facts
or the story to beauty, but that he does not defer enough, that he does not sufficiently trust
his own eyes, but by way of further assurance drags in architecture, ships, mythological or
Scripture stories, not caring for them himself, but supposing the spectator cares, so that
they remain unassimilated, a scum floating on the surface and obscuring the work. Here is the
"want of faith" with which, if any, he is justly chargeable,--that beauty is not enough for
him, but he must make it pleasing. Pleasingness implies a languid acceptance, in which the
mind is spared the shock of fresh suggestion or incitement. We call the Venus de' Medici, for
instance, a pleasing statue, but the Venus of Milo beautiful; because in the one we find in
fuller measure only what was already accepted and agreeable, whilst in the other we feel the
presence of an unexplored and formidable personality, provoking the endeavor to follow it out
and guess at its range and extent.

This deference to the spectator marks the decline of Art from the supremacy of its position
as the interpreter of religion to mankind. The work is no longer a revelation devoutly received
by the artist and piously transmitted to a believing world; but he is a cultivated man, who
gives what is agreeable to a cultivated society, where the Bible is treated with decorum, but
all enthusiasm is reserved for Plato and Cicero. The earlier and greater men brought much of
what they were from the fifteenth century, but even Raphael is too academic. It is not a Chinese
deference to tradition, nor conformity to a fixed national taste, such as ruled Greek Art as
by an organic necessity. One knows not whether to wonder most at the fancied need to attach
to the work the stamp of classic authority, or at the levity with which the venerable forms
of antiquity are treated. Nothing can be more superficial than this varnish of classicality.
The names of Cicero, Brutus, Augustus were in all mouths; but the real character of these men,
or of any others, or of the times they lived in, was very slightly realized. The classic architecture,
with its cogent adaptation and sequence of parts, is cut up into theatre-scenery: its "members"
are members no longer, but scraps to be stuck about at will. The gods and heroes of the ancient
world have become the pageant of a holiday; even the sacred legends of the Church receive only
an outward respect, and at last not even that. Claude wants a foreground-figure and puts in
Æneas, Diana, or Moses, he cares little which, and he would hear, unmoved, Mr. Ruskin's eloquent
denunciation of their utter unfitness for the assumed character, and the absurdity of the whole
action of the piece.

But the Renaissance had its religion, too,--namely, Culture. The one "virtue," acknowledged
on all hands, alike by busy merchants, soldiers, despots, women, the acquaintance with Greek
and Roman literature and art, was not quite the idle dilettanteism it seems. Lorenzo de' Medici
said, that, without the knowledge of the Platonic philosophy, it was hard to be a good citizen
and Christian. Leo X. thought, "Nothing more excellent or more useful has been given by the
Creator to mankind, if we except only the knowledge and true worship of Himself, than these
studies, which not only lead to the ornament and guidance of human life, but are applicable
and useful to every particular situation." That this culture was superficial, that it regarded
only show and outside, is no reproach, but means only that it was not a mere galvanizing of
dead bones, that a new spirit was masquerading in these garments. Had it been in earnest in
its revival of the past, it would have been insignificant; its disregard of the substance,
and care for the form alone, showed that the form was used only as a protest against the old
forms. A provincial narrowness, even a slight air of vulgarity, was felt to attach to the teachings
of the Church. Gentility had come to imply not only heathendom, ("gentilis est qui in Christum
non credit,") but liberal breeding. The attraction of the classic culture, "the humanities,"
as it was well called, was just this cosmopolitan largeness, that it had no prejudices and
prescribed no test, but was open to all kinds of merit and every manner of man. Goethe, who
belongs in good part to the Renaissance, frequently exemplifies this feeling, perhaps nowhere
more strikingly than in the account of his pilgrimage to the temple of Minerva at Assisi, which
he lovingly describes, remarking, at the same time, that he passed with only aversion the Church
of St. Francis, with its frescos by Cimabue, Giotto, and their followers, which no traveller
of our day willingly misses or soon forgets, though the temple may probably occupy but a small
space in his memory. "I made no doubt," says Goethe, "that all the heads there bore the same
stamp as my Captain's,"--an Italian officer, more orthodox than enlightened, with whom he had
been travelling.

In truth, however diverse in its first appearance, the Italian Renaissance was the counterpart
of the German Reformation, and, like that, a declaration that God is not shut up in a corner
of the universe, nor His revelation restricted in regard of time, place, or persons. The day
was long past when the Church was synonymous with civilization. The Church-ideal of holiness
had long since been laid aside; a new world had grown up, in which other aims and another spirit
prevailed. Macchiavelli thought the Church had nothing to do with worldly affairs, could do
nothing for the State or for freedom. And the Church thought so, too. If it was left out of
the new order of things, it was because it had left itself out. "The world" was godless, pompa
Diaboli; devotion to God implied devotion (of the world) to the Devil. But the world, thus
cut adrift, found itself yet alive and vigorous, and began thenceforth to live its own life,
leaving the "other world" to take care of itself. Salvation, whether for the State or the individual,
it was felt must come from individual effort, and not be conferred as a stamp or visa from
the Pope and the College of Cardinals. It was not Religion that was dead, but only the Church.
The Church being petrified into a negation, Culture, the religion of the world, was necessarily
negative to that, and for a time absorbed in the mere getting rid of obstructions. Sainthood
had never been proposed even as an ideal for all mankind, but only as fuga sæculi, the avoidance
of all connection with human affairs. Logically, it must lead to the completest isolation,
and find its best exponent in Simeon Stylites. The new ideal of Culture must involve first
of all the getting rid of isolation, natural and artificial. Its representatives are such men
as Leonardo da Vinci and Leon-Battista Alberti, masters of all arts and sciences, travelled,
well-bred, at home in the universe,--thoroughly accomplished men of the world, with senses
and faculties in complete harmonious development. It is an age full of splendid figures; whatever
growth there was in any country came now to its flowering-time.

The drawback is want of purpose. This splendor looks only to show; there is no universal aim,
no motive except whim,--the whims of men of talent, or the whim of the crowd. For the approbation
of the Church is substituted the applause of cultivated society, a wider convention, but conventional
still. This is the frivolous side of the Renaissance, not its holding light the old traditions,
but that for the traditions it rejected it had nothing but tradition to substitute. But if
this declaration of independence was at first only a claim for license, not for liberty, this
is only what was natural, and may be said of Protestantism as well. Protestantism, too, had
its orthodoxy, and has not even yet quite realized that the private judgment whose rights it
vindicated does not mean personal whim, and therefore is not fortified by the assent of any
man or body of men, nor weakened by their dissent, but belongs alone to thought, which is necessarily
individual, and at the same time of universal validity; whereas, personality is partial, belongs
to the crowd, and to that part of the man which confounds him with the crowd. Were the private
judgment indeed private, it would have no rights. Of what consequence the private judgments
of a tribe of apes, or of Bushmen? This reference to the bystanders means only an appeal from
the Church; it is at bottom a declaration that the truth is not a miraculous exception, a falsehood
which for this particular occasion is called truth, but the substance of the universe, apparent
everywhere, and to all that seek it. The perception must be its own evidence, it must be true
for us, now and here. We have no right to blame the Renaissance painters for their love of
show, for Art exists for show, and the due fulfilment of its purpose, bringing to the surface
what was dimly indicated, must engage it the more thoroughly in the superficial aspect, and
make all reference to a hidden ulterior meaning more and more a mere pretence. What was once
Thought has now become form, color, surface; to make a mystery of it would be thoughtlessness
or hypocrisy.

The shortcoming is not in the artists, but in Art. Painting shares the same fate as Sculpture:
not only is the soul not a thing, it is not wholly an appearance, but combines with its appearing
a constant protest against the finality of it. Not only is the body an inadequate manifestation,
but what it manifests is itself progressive, and any conception of it restrictive and partial.
Henceforth any representation of the human form must either pretend a mystery that is not felt,
or, if inspired by a genuine interest, it must be of a lower kind, and must avoid of set purpose
any undue exaltation of one part over another, as of the face over the limbs, and dwell rather
upon harmony of lines and colors, wherein nothing shall be prominent at the expense of the
rest, seeking to make up what is wanting in intensity, in inward meaning, by allusion, by an
interest reflected from without, instead of the immediate and intuitive. We often feel, even
in Raphael's pictures, that the aim is lower than, for instance, Frà Angelico's. But it is
at least genuine, and what that saves us from we may see in some of Perugino's and Pinturicchio's
altar-pieces, where spirituality means kicking heels, hollow cheeks, and a deadly-sweet smile.
That Raphael, among all his Holy Families, painted only one Madonna di San Sisto, and that
hastily, on trifling occasion, shows that it was a chance-hit rather than the normal fruit
of his genius. The beauty that shines like celestial flame from the face of the divine child,
and the transfigured humanity of the mother, are no denizens of earth, but fugitive radiances
that tinge it for a moment and are gone. For once, the impossible is achieved; the figures
hover, dreamlike, disconnected from all around, as if the canvas opened and showed, not what
is upon it, but beyond it. But it is a casual success, not to be sought or expected. A wise
instinct made the painter in general shun such direct, explicit statement, and rather treat
the subject somewhat cavalierly than allow it to confront and confound him. The greater he
is, and the more complete his development, the more he must dread whatever makes his Art secondary
or superfluous. Whatever force we give to the reproach of want of elevation, etc., the only
impossible theme is the unartistic.

But before we give heed to any such reproach we must beware of confounding the personality
of the artist or the fashion of the time with the moving spirit in both. He works always--as
Michel Angelo complained that he was painting the ceiling of the Sistine--over his own head,
and blinded by his own paint. The purpose that we speak of is not his petty doings and intentions,
but what he unintentionally accomplishes. It is the spiritual alone that interests; and if
later Art seem, by comparison, wanting in spirituality, this is partly the effect of its juster
appreciation, that rendered direct expression hopeless, but at the same time superfluous, by
discovering the same import more accessible elsewhere, as the higher indirect meaning of all
material things. Critics tell us that the charm of landscape is incomplete without the presence
of man,--that there must always be some hint, at least, of human habitation or influence. Certainly
it is always a human interest, it is not the timber and the water, that moves us, but the echo
of a kindred mind. But in the "landscape and figures" it is hardly a human interest that we
take in the figures. The "dull victims of pipe and mug" serve our turn perhaps better than
the noblest mountaineers. It is not to them that we look for the spirit of the landscape,--rather
anywhere else. It is the security of the perception that allows it to dispense with pointed
demonstration, and to delight rather in obscurer intimations of its meaning.

The modern ideal is the Picturesque,--a beauty not detachable, belonging to the picture, to
the composition, not to the component parts. It has no favorites; it is violated alike by the
systematic glorification and the systematic depreciation of particular forms. The Apollo Belvedere
would make as poor a figure in the foreground of a modern landscape as a fisherman in jack-boots
and red nightcap on a pedestal in the Vatican. Claude's or Turner's figures may be absurd,
when taken by themselves; but the absurdity consists in taking them by themselves. Turner,
it is said, could draw figures well; Claude probably could not; (he is more likely to have
tried;) but each must have felt that anything that should call attention to the figures would
be worse than any bad drawing. Nicolas Poussin was well called "the learned"; for it is his
learning, his study of the antique, of Raphael, of drapery and anatomy, that most appears in
his landscapes and gives his figures their plastic emphasis. But this is no praise for a painter.

Of course the boundary-lines cannot be very exactly drawn; the genius of a Delaroche or a Millais
will give interest to a figure-piece at whatever epoch. But such pictures as Etty's, or Page's
Venus, where the beauty of the human body is the point of attraction, are flat anachronisms,
and for this reason, not from any prudishness of the public, can never excite a hearty enthusiasm.
From the sixteenth century downwards all pictures become more and more tableaux de genre,--the
piece is not described by the nominal subject, but only the class to which it belongs, leaving
its special character wholly undetermined. And in proportion as the action and the detail are
dwelt upon, the more evident is it that the theme is only a pretence. Martyrdoms, when there
was any fervency of faith in the martyrs, were very abstract. A hint of sword or wheel sufficed.
The saints and the angels, as long as men believed in them, carried their witness in their
faces, with only some conventional indication of their history. As soon as direct representation
is aimed at and the event portrayed as an historical fact, it is proof enough that all direct
interest is gone and nothing left but the technical problem. The martyrdoms are vulgar execution-scenes,--the
angels, men sprawling upon clouds. Michel Angelo was a noble, devout man, but it is clear that
the God he prayed to was not the God he painted.

This essential disparity between idea and representation is the weak side of Art, plastic and
pictorial; but because it is essential it is not felt by the artist as defect. His genius urges
him to all advance that is possible within the limits of his Art, but not to transcend it.
It will be in vain to exhort him to unite the ancient piety to the modern knowledge. If he
listen to the exhortation, he may be a good critic, but he is no painter. He must be absorbed
in what he sees to the exclusion of everything else; impartiality is a virtue to all the world
except him. There will always be a onesidedness; either the conception or the embodying of
it halts, is only partially realized; some incompleteness, some mystery, some apparent want
of coincidence between form and meaning is a necessity to the artist, and if he does not find
it, he will invent it. Hence the embarrassment of some of the English Pre-Raphaelitists, particularly
in dealing with the human form. They have no hesitation in pursuing into still further minuteness
the literal delineation of inanimate objects, draperies, etc.; but they shrink from giving
full life to their figures, not from a slavish adherence to their exemplars, but from a dread
lest it should seem that what is shown is all that is meant. The early painters were thus naïve
and distinct because of their limitations; they knew very well what they meant,--as, that the
event took place out-of-doors, with the sun shining, the grass under-foot, an oak-tree here,
a strawberry-vine there,--mere adjunct and by-play, not to be questioned as to the import of
the piece: that the Church took care of. But who can say what a modern landscape means? The
significance that in the older picture was as it were outside of it, presupposed, assured elsewhere,
has now to be incorporated, verily present in every atom of soil and film of vapor. The realism
of the modern picture must be infinitely more extended, for the meaning of it is that nothing
is superfluous or insignificant. But with the reality that it lends to every particle of matter,
it must introduce, at the same time, the protest that spirit makes against matter,--most distinct,
indeed, in the human form and countenance, but nowhere absent. In its utmost explication there
must be felt that there is yet more behind; its utmost distinctness must be everywhere indefinable,
evanescent,--must proclaim that this parade of surface-appearance is not there for its own
sake. This is what Mr. Ruskin calls "the pathetic fallacy": but there is nothing fallacious
in it; it is solid truth, only under the guise of mystery. Turner said that Mr. Ruskin had
put all sorts of meanings into his pictures that he knew nothing about. Of course, else they
would never have got into the pictures. But this does not affect their validity, but means
only that it is the imagination, not the intellect, that must apprehend them.

It is not an outward, arbitrary incompleteness that is demanded, but a visible dependence of
each part, by its partiality declaring the completeness of the whole. It is often said that
the picture must "leave room for the imagination." Yes, and for nothing else; but this does
not imply that it should be unfinished, but that, when the painter has set down what the imagination
grasped in one view, he shall stop, no matter where, and not attempt to eke out the deficiency
by formula or by knack of fingers. Wherever the inspiration leaves him, there is an end of
the picture. Beyond that we get only his personalities; no skill, no earnestness of intention,
etc., can avail him; he is only mystifying himself or us. At these points we sooner or later
come up with him, are as good as he, and the work forthwith begins to tire. What is tiresome
is to have thrust upon us the dead surface of matter: this is the prose of the world, which
we come to Art to escape. It is prosaic, because it is seen as the understanding sees it, as
an aggregate only, apart from its vital connection; it matters little whose the understanding
is. The artist must be alive only to the totality of the impression, blind and deaf to all
outside of that. He must believe that the idyl he sees in the landscape is there because he
sees it, and will appear in the picture without the help of demonstration. The danger is, that
from weakness of faith he will fancy or pretend that he sees something else, which may be there,
but formed no part of the impression. It is simply a question of natural attraction, magnetism,
how much he can take up and carry; all beyond that is hindrance, and any conscious endeavor
of his cannot help, but can only thwart.

The picturesque has its root in the mind's craving for totality. It is Nature seen as a whole;
all the characteristics and prerequisites of it come back to this,--such as roughness, wildness,
ruin, obscurity, the gloom of night or of storm; whatever the outward discrepancy, wherever
the effect is produced, it is because in some way there is a gain in completeness. On this
condition everything is welcome,--without it, nothing. Thus, a broken, weedy bank is more picturesque
than the velvet slope,--the decayed oak than the symmetry of the sapling,--the squalid shanty
by the railroad, with its base of dirt, its windows stuffed with old hats, and the red shirts
dependent from its eaves, than the neatest brick cottage. They strike a richer accord, while
the others drone on a single note. Moonlight is always picturesque, because it substitutes
mass and breadth for the obtrusiveness of petty particulars. It is not the pettiness, but the
particularity, that makes them unpicturesque. No impressiveness in the object can atone for
exclusiveness. Niagara cannot be painted, not because it is too difficult, but because it is
no landscape, but like a vast illuminated capital letter filling the whole page, or the sublime
monotony of the mosque-inscriptions, declaring in thousandfold repetition that God is great.
The soaring sublimity of the Moslem monotheism comes partly from its narrowness and abstractness.
Is it because we are a little hard of hearing that it takes such reiteration to move us?

The wholeness which the imagination demands is not quantitative, but qualitative; it has nothing
to do with size or with number, except so far as, by confusing the sense, they obscurely intimate
infinity, with which all quantities are incommensurable. Mr. Ruskin's encyclopedic anatomizing
of the landscape, to the end of showing the closeness of Turner's perception, has great interest,
but not the interest merely of a longer list, for it is to be remembered that the longest list
would be no nearer to an exhaustive analysis than the shortest. It is not a specious completeness,
but a sense of infinity that can never be completed,--greater intensity, not greater extension,--that
distinguishes modern landscape-art. Hence there is no incongruity in the seeming license that
it takes with the firm order of Nature. It is in no spirit of levity or profanity that the
substantial distinctions of things are thus disregarded,--that all absolute rank is denied,
and the value of each made contingent and floating. It is only that the mind is somewhat nearer
apprehending the sense, and dwells less on the characters.

If Art suffers in its relative rank among human interests by this democratic levelling, it
is to the gain of what Art intends. It is true, no picture can henceforth move us as men were
once moved by pictures. No Borgo Allegro will ever turn out again in triumph for a Madonna
of Cimabue or of any one else; whatever feeling Turner or another may excite comes far short
of that. But the splendor that clothed the poor, pale, formal image belonged very little to
it, but expressed rather the previous need of utterance, and could reach that pitch only when
the age had not yet learned to think and to write, but must put up with these hieroglyphics.
Art has no more grown un-religious than Religion has, but only less idolatrous. As fast as
religion passes into life,--as the spiritual nature of man begins to be recognized as the ground
of legislation and society, and not merely in the miracle of sainthood,--the apparatus and
imagery of the Church, its dogmas and ceremonies, grow superfluous, as what they stand for
is itself present. It is the dawn that makes these stars grow pale. So in Art, as fast as the
dream of the imagination becomes the common sense of mankind, and only so fast, the awe that
surrounded the earlier glimpses is lost. Its influence is not lessened, but diffused and domesticated
as Culture.

Art is the truly popular philosophy. Our picture-gazing and view-hunting only express the feeling
that our science is too abstract, that it does not attach us, but isolates us in the universe.
What we are thus inwardly drawn to explore is not the chaff and exuviæ of things, not their
differences only, but their central connection, in spite of apparent diversity. This, stated,
is the Ideal, the abrupt contradiction of the actual, and the creation of a world extraordinary,
in which all defect is removed. But the defect cannot be cured by correction, for that admits
its right to exist; it is not by exclusion that limitation is overcome,--this is only to establish
a new limitation,--but by inclusion, by reaching the point where the superficial antagonism
vanishes. Then the ideal is seen no longer in opposition, but everywhere and alone existent.
As this point is approached, the impulse to reconstruct the actual--as if the triumph of truth
were staked on that venture--dies out. The elaborate contradiction loses interest, earliest
where it is most elaborate and circumstantial, and latest where the image has least materiality
and fixity, where it is only a reminder of what the actual is securely felt to be, in spite
of its stubborn exterior.

The modern mind is therefore less demonstrative; our civilization seeks less to declare and
typify itself outwardly in works of Art, manners, dress, etc. Hence it is, perhaps, that the
beauty of the race has not kept pace with its culture. It is less beautiful, because it cares
less for beauty, since this is no longer the only reconcilement of the actual with the inward
demands. The vice of the imagination is its inevitable exaggeration. It is our own weakness
and dulness that we try to hide from ourselves by this partiality. Therefore it was said that
the images were the Bible of the laity. Bishop Durandus already in the thirteenth century declared
that it is only where the truth is not yet revealed that this "Judaizing" is permissible.

The highest of all arts is the art of life. In this the superficial antagonisms of use and
beauty, of fact and reality, disappear. A little gain here, or the hint of it, richly repays
all the lost magnificence. We need not concern ourselves lest these latter ages should be left
bankrupt of the sense of beauty, for that is but a phase of a force that is never absent; nothing
can supersede it but itself in a higher power. What we lament as decay only shows its demands
fulfilled, and the arts it has left behind are but the landmarks of its accomplished purpose.

OUR CLASSMATE.

WHITTIER.

It was some ten years ago that we first met John Greenleaf Whittier, the poet of the moral
sentiment and of the heart and faith of the people of America. It chanced that we had then
been making notes, with much interest, upon the genius of the Semitic nations. That peculiar
simplicity, centrality, and intensity which caused them to originate Monotheism from two independent
centres, the only systems of pure Monotheism which have had power in history,--while the same
characteristics made their poetry always lyrical, never epic or dramatic, and their most vigorous
thought a perpetual sacrifice on the altars of the will,--this had strongly impressed us; and
we seemed to find in it a striking contrast to the characteristic genius of the Aryan or Indo-Germanic
nations, with their imaginative interpretations of the religious sentiment, with their epic
and dramatic expansions, and their taste for breadth and variety. Somewhat warm with these
notions, we came to a meeting with our poet, and the first thought, on seeing him, was, "The
head of a Hebrew prophet!" It is not Hebrew,--Saracen rather; the Jewish type is heavier, more
material; but it corresponded strikingly to the conceptions we had formed of the Southern Semitic
crania, and the whole make of the man was of the same character. Indeed, the impression was
so strong as to induce some little feeling of embarrassment. It seemed slightly awkward and
insipid to be meeting a prophet here in a parlor and in a spruce masquerade of modern costume,
shaking hands, and saying, "Happy to meet you," after the fashion of our feeble civilities.

All this came vividly to remembrance, on taking up, the other day, Whittier's last book of
poems, "In War-Time,"--a volume that has been welcomed all over the land with enthusiastic
delight. Had it been no more, however, than a mere private reminiscence, it should, at present,
have remained private. But have we not here a key to Whittier's genius? Is not this Semitic
centrality and simplicity, this prophetic depth, reality, and vigor, without great lateral
and intellectual range, its especial characteristic? He has not the liberated, light-winged
Greek imagination,--imagination not involved and included in the religious sentiment, but playing
in epic freedom and with various interpretation between religion and intellect; he has not
the flowing, Protean, imaginative sympathy, the power of instant self-identification with all
forms of character and life, which culminated in Shakspeare; but that imaginative vitality
which lurks in faith and conscience, producing what we may call ideal force of heart, this
he has eminently; and it is this central, invisible, Semitic heat which makes him a poet.

Imagination exists in him, not as a separable faculty, but as a pure vital suffusion. Hence
he is an inevitable poet. There is no drop of his blood, there is no fibre of his brain, which
does not crave poetic expression. Mr. Carlyle desires to postpone poetry; but as Providence
did not postpone Whittier, his wishes can hardly be gratified. Ours is, indeed, one of the
plainest of poets. He is intelligible and acceptable to those who have little either of poetic
culture or of fancy and imagination. Whoever has common sense and a sound heart has the powers
by which he may be appreciated. And yet he is not only a real poet, but he is all poet. The
Muses have not merely sprinkled his brow; he was baptized by immersion. His notes are not many;
but in them Nature herself sings. He is a sparrow that half sings, half chirps, on a bush,
not a lark that floods with orient hilarity the skies of morning; but the bush burns, like
that which Moses saw, and the sparrow herself is part of the divine flame.

This, then, is the general statement about Whittier. His genius is Hebrew, Biblical,--more
so than that of any other poet now using the English language. In other words, he is organically
a poem of the Will. He is a flower of the moral sentiment,--and of the moral sentiment, not
in its flexible, feminine, vine-like dependence and play, but in its masculine rigor, climbing
in direct, vertical affirmation, like a forest-pine. In this respect he affiliates with Wordsworth,
and, going farther back, with Milton, whose tap-root was Hebrew, though in the vast epic flowering
of his genius he passed beyond the imaginative range of Semitic mind.

In thus identifying our bard, spiritually, with a broad form of the genius of mankind, we already
say with emphasis that his is indeed a Life. Yes, once more, a real Life. He is a nature. He
was born, not manufactured. Here, once again, the old, mysterious, miraculous processes of
spiritual assimilation. Here, a genuine root-clutch upon the elements of man's experience,
and an inevitable, indomitable working-up of them into human shape. To look at him without
discerning this vital depth and reality were as good as no looking at all.

Moreover, the man and the poet are one and the same. His verse is no literary Beau-Brummelism,
but a re-presentation of that which is presented in his consciousness. First, there is inward
vital conversion of the elements of his experience, then verse, or version,--first the soul,
then the body. His voice, as such, has little range, nor is it any marvel of organic perfection;
on the contrary, there is many a voice with nothing at all in it which far surpasses his in
mere vocal excellence; only in this you can hear the deep refrain of Nature, and of Nature
chanting her moral ideal.

We shall consider Whittier's poetry in this light,--as a vital effluence, as a product of his
being; and citations will be made, not by way of culling "beauties,"--a mode of criticism to
which there are grave objections,--but of illustrating total growth, quality, and power. Our
endeavor will be to get at, so far as possible, the processes of vital action, of spiritual
assimilation, which go on in the poet, and then to trace these in his poetry.

Quakerism and America--America ideally true to herself--quickly became, in his mind, one and
the same. Quakerism means divine democracy. George Fox was the first forerunner, the John Baptist,
of the new time,--leather-aproned in the British wilderness. Seeing the whole world dissolving
into individualism, he did not try to tie it together, after the fashion of great old Hooker,
with new cords of ecclesiasticism; but he did this,--he affirmed a Mount Sinai in the heart
of the individual, and gave to the word person an INFINITE depth. To sound that word thus was
his function in history. No wonder that England trembled with terror, and then blazed with
rage. No wonder that many an ardent James Naylor was crazed with the new wine.

Puritanism meant the same thing at bottom; but, accepting the more legal and learned interpretations
of Calvin, it was, to a great degree, involved in the past, and also turned its eye more to
political mechanisms. For this very reason it kept up more of fellowship with the broad world,
and had the benefit of this in a larger measure of social fructification. Whatever is separated
dies. Quakerism uttered a word so profound that the utterance made it insular; and, left to
itself, it began to be lost in itself. Nevertheless, Quakerism and Puritanism are the two richest
historic soils of modern time.

Our young poet got at the heart of the matter. He learned to utter the word Man so believingly
that it sounded down into depths of the divine and infinite. He learned to say, with Novalis,
"He touches heaven who touches a human body." And when he uttered this word, "Man," in full,
social breadth, lo! it changed, and became AMERICA.

There begins the genesis of the conscious poet. All the depths of his heart rang with the resonance
of these imaginations,--Man, America; meaning divine depth of manhood, divine spontaneity and
rectitude of social relationship.

But what! what is this? Just as he would raise his voice to chant the new destinies of man,
a harsh, heartless, human bark, and therewith a low, despairing stifle of sobbing, came to
his ear! It is the bark of the auctioneer, "Going! going!"--it is the sobbing of the slave
on the auction-block! And this, too, O Poet, this, too, is America! So you are not secure of
your grand believing imaginations yet, but must fight for them. The faith of your heart would
perish, if it did not put on armor.

Whittier's poetic life has three principal epochs. The first opens and closes with the "Voices
of Freedom." We may use Darwin's phrase, and call it the period of Struggle for Life. His ideal
itself is endangered; the atmosphere he would inhale is filled with poison; a desolating moral
prosaicism springs up to justify a great social ugliness, and spreads in the air where his
young hopes would try their wings; and in the imperfect strength of youth he has so much of
dependence upon actual surroundings, that he must either war with their evil or succumb to
it. Of surrender his daring and unselfish soul never for a moment thought. Never did a trained
falcon stoop upon her quarry with more fearlessness, or a spirit of less question, than that
which bore our young hero to the moral fray; yet the choice was such as we have indicated.

The faith for which he fought is uttered with spirit in a stanza from "The Branded Hand."

Our poet, too, conversing with God's stars and silence, has come to an understanding with himself,
and made up his mind. That Man's being has an ideal or infinite value, and that all consecrated
institutions are shams, and their formal consecration a blasphemous mockery, save as they look
to that fact,--this in his Merrimac solitudes has come forth clearly to his soul, and, like
old Hebrew David, he has said, "My heart is fixed." Make other selections who will, he has
concluded to face life and death on this basis.

Did he not choose as a poet MUST? Between a low moral prosaicism and a generous moral ideal
was it possible for him to hesitate? Are there those whose real thought is, that man, beyond
his estimation as an animal, represents only a civil value,--that he is but the tailor's "dummy"
and clothes-horse of institutions? Do they tell our poet that his notion of man as a divine
revelation, as a pure spiritual or absolute value, is a mere dream, discountenanced by the
truth of the universe? He might answer, "Let the universe look to it, then! In that case, I
stand upon my dream as the only worthy reality." What were a mere pot-and-pudding universe
to him? Does Mr. Holyoke complain that these hot idealisms make the culinary kettles of the
world boil over? Kitchen-prudences are good for kitchens; but the sun kindles his great heart
without special regard to them.

These "Voices of Freedom" are no bad reading at the present day. They are of that strenuous
quality, that the light of battle brings to view a finer print, which lay unseen between the
lines. They are themselves battles, and stir the blood like the blast of a trumpet. What a
beat in them of fiery pulses! What a heat, as of molten metal, or coal-mines burning underground!
What anger! What desire! And yet we have in vain searched these poems to find one trace of
base wrath, or of any degenerate and selfish passion. He is angry, and sins not. The sun goes
down and again rises upon his wrath; and neither sets nor rises upon aught freer from meanness
and egoism. All the fires of his heart burn for justice and mercy, for God and humanity; and
they who are most scathed by them owe him no hatred in return, whether they pay him any or not.

Not a few of these verses seem written for the present day. Take the following from the poem
entitled, "Texas"; they might be deemed a call for volunteers.

The Administration might have gone to these poems for a policy: he had fought the battle before
them.

    "Have they wronged us? Let us, then,
      Render back nor threats nor prayers;
    Have they chained our freeborn men?
      LET US UNCHAIN THEIRS!"

Or look at these concluding stanzas of "The Crisis," which is the last of the "Voices." Has
not our prophet written them for this very day?

These are less to be named poems than pieces of rhythmic oratory,--oratory crystallized into
poetic form, and carrying that deeper significance and force which from all vitalized form
are inseparable. A poem, every work of Art, must rest in itself; oratory is a means toward
a specific effect. The man who writes poems may have aims which underlie and suffuse his work;
but they must not be partial, they must be coextensive with the whole spirit of man, and must
enter his work as the air enters his nostrils. The moment a definite, partial effect is sought,
the attitude of poetry begins to be lost. These battle-pieces are therefore a warfare for the
possession of the poet's ideal, not the joyous life-breath of that ideal already victorious
in him. And the other poems of this first great epoch in his poetical life, though always powerful,
often beautiful, yet never, we think, show a perfect resting upon his own poetic heart.

In the year 1850 appeared the "Songs of Labor, and other Poems"; and in these we reach the
transition to his second epoch. Here he has already recognized the pure ground of the poem,--

    "Art's perfect forms no moral need,
      And beauty is its own excuse,"--

but his modesty declines attempting that perfection, and assigns him a lower place.

Not pure gold as yet, but genuine silver. The aim at a definite use is still apparent, as he
himself perceives; but there is nevertheless a constant native play into them of ideal feeling.
It is no longer a struggle for room to draw poetic breath in, but only the absence of a perfectly
free and unconscious poetic respiration. Yet they are sterling poems, with the stamp of the
mint upon them. And some of the strains are such as no living man but Whittier has proven his
power to produce. "Ichabod," for example, is the purest and profoundest moral lament, to the
best of our knowledge, in modern literature, whether American or European. It is the grief
of angels in arms over a traitor brother slain on the battle-fields of heaven.

Two years later comes the "Chapel of the Hermits," and with it the second epoch in Whittier's
poetic career. The epoch of Culture we name it. The poet has now passed the period of outward
warfare. All the arrows in the quiver of his noble wrath are spent. Now on the wrong and shame
of the land he looks down with deep, calm, superior eyes, sorrowful, indeed, and reproving,
but no longer perturbed. His hot, eloquent, prophetic spirit now breathes freely, lurk in the
winds of the moment what poison may; for he has attained to those finer airs of eternity which
hide ever, like the luminiferous ether, in this atmosphere of time; so that, like the scholar-hero
of Schiller, he is indeed "in the time, but not of it." Still his chant of high encouragement
shall fly forth on wings of music to foster the nobilities of the land; still over the graves
of the faithful dead he shall murmur a requiem, whose chastened depth and truth relate it to
other and better worlds than this; still his lips utter brave rebuke, but it is a rebuke that
falls, like the song of an unseen bird, out of the sky, so purely moral, so remote from earthly
and egoistic passion, so sure and reposeful, that verse is its natural embodiment. The home-elements
of his intellectual and moral life he has fairly assimilated; and his verse in its mellowness
and rhythmical excellence reflects this achievement of his spirit.

But now, after the warfare, begins questioning. For modern culture has come to him, as it comes
to all, with its criticism, its science, its wide conversation through books, its intellectual
unrest; it has looked him in the eye, and said, "Are you sure? The dear old traditions,--they
are indeed traditions. The sweet customs which have housed our spiritual and social life,--these
are customs. Of what are you SURE?" Matthew Arnold has recently said well (we cannot quote
the words) that the opening of the modern epoch consists in the discovery that institutions
and habitudes of the earlier centuries, in which we have grown, are not absolute, and do not
adjust themselves perfectly to our mental wants. Thus are we thrown back upon our own souls.
We have to ask the first questions, and get such answer as we may. The meaning of the modern
world is this,--an epoch which, in the midst of established institutions, of old consecrated
habitudes of thought and feeling, of populous nations which cannot cast loose from ancient
anchorage without peril of horrible wreck and disaster, has got to take up man's life again
from the beginning. Of modern life this is the immediate key.

Our poet's is one of those deep and clinging natures which hold hard by the heart of bygone
times; but also he is of a nature so deep and sensitive that the spiritual endeavor of the
period must needs utter itself in him. "ART THOU SURE?"--the voice went sounding keenly, terribly,
through the profound of his soul. And to this his spirit, not without struggle and agony, but
at length clearly, made the faithful Hebrew response, "I TRUST." Bravely said, O deep-hearted
poet! Rest there! Rest there and thus on your own believing filial heart, and on the Eternal,
who in it accomplishes the miracle of that confiding!

Not eminently endowed with discursive intellect,--not gifted with that power, Homeric in kind
and more than Homeric in degree, which might meet the old mythic imaginations on, or rather
above, their own level, and out of them, together with the material which modern time supplies,
build in the skies new architectures, wherein not only the feeling, but the imagination also,
of future ages might house,--our poet comes with Semitic directness to the heart of the matter:
he takes the divine Yea, though it be but a simple Yea, and no syllable more, in his own soul,
and holds childlike by that. And he who has asked the questions of the time and reached this
conclusion,--he who has stood alone with his unclothed soul, and out of that nakedness before
the Eternities said, "I trust,"--he is victorious; he has entered the modern epoch, and has
not lost the spiritual crown from his brows.

The central poem of this epoch is "Questions of Life."

    "I am: how little more I know!
    Whence came I? Whither do I go?

Then to outward Nature, to mythic tradition, to the thought, faith, sanctity of old time he
goes in quest of certitude, but returns to God in the heart, and to the simple heroic act by
which he that believes BELIEVES.

"The Panorama and other Poems," together with "Later Poems,"[13] having the dates of 1856 and
1857, constitute the transition to his third and consummate epoch. Much in them deserves notice,
but we must hasten. And yet, instead of hastening, we will pause, and take this opportunity
to pick a small critical quarrel with Mr. Whittier. We charge him, in the first place, with
sundry felonious assaults upon the good letter r. In the "Panorama," for example, we find law
rhyming with for! You, Mr. Poet, you, who indulge fastidious objections to the whipping of
women, to outrage that innocent preposition thus! And to select the word law itself, with which
to force it into this lawless connection! Secondly, romance and allies are constantly written
by him with the accent on the first syllable. These be heinous offences! A poet, of all men,
should cherish the liquid consonants, and should resist the tendency of the populace to make
trochees of all dissyllables. In a graver tone we might complain that he sometimes--rarely--writes,
not by vocation of the ancient Muses, who were daughters of Memory and immortal Zeus, but of
those Muses in drab and scoop-bonnets who are daughters of Memory and George Fox. Some lines
of the "Brown of Ossawatomie" we are thinking of now. We can regard them only as a reminiscence
of his special Quaker culture.

With the "Home Ballads," published in 1863, dawns fully his final period,--long may it last!
This is the epoch of Poetic Realism. Not that he abandons or falls away from his moral ideal.
The fact is quite contrary. He has so entirely established himself in that ideal that he no
longer needs strivingly to assert it,--any more than Nature needs to pin upon oak-trees an
affirmation that the idea of an oak dwells in her formative thought. Nature affirms the oak-idea
by oaks; the consummate poet exhibits the same realism. He embodies. He lends a soul to forms.
The real and ideal in Art are indeed often opposed to each other as contraries, but it is a
false opposition. Let the artist represent reality, and all that is in him, though it were
the faith of seraphs, will go into the representation. The sole condition is that he shall
select his subject from native, spontaneous choice,--that is, leave his genius to make its
own elections. Let one, whose genius so invites him, paint but a thistle, and paint it as faithfully
as Nature grows it; yet, if the Ten Commandments are meantime uttering themselves in his thought,
he will make the thistle-top a Sinai.

It is this poetic realism that Whittier has now, in a high degree, attained. Calm and sure,
lofty in humility, strong in childlikeness,--renewing the play-instinct of the true poet in
his heart,--younger now than when he sat on his mother's knee,--chastened, not darkened, by
trial, and toil, and time,--illumined, poet-like, even by sorrow,--he lives and loves, and
chants the deep, homely beauty of his lays. He is as genuine, as wholesome and real as sweet-flag
and clover. Even when he utters pure sentiment, as in that perfect lyric, "My Psalm," or in
the intrepid, exquisite humility--healthful and sound as the odor of new-mown hay or balsam-firs--of
"Andrew Rykman's Prayer," he maintains the same attitude of realism. He states God and inward
experience as he would state sunshine and the growth of grass. This, with the devout depth
of his nature, makes the rare beauty of his hymns and poems of piety and trust. He does not
try to make the facts by stating them; he does not try to embellish them; he only seeks to
utter, to state them; and even in his most perfect verse they are not half so melodious as
they were in his soul.

All perfect poetry is simple statement of facts,--facts of history or of imagination. Whoever
thinks to create poetry by words, and inclose in the verse a beauty which did not exist in
his consciousness, has got hopelessly astray.

It is, however, in his ballads that Whittier exhibits, not, perhaps, a higher, yet a rarer,
power than elsewhere,--a power, in truth, which is very rare indeed. Already in the "Panorama"
volume he had brought forth three of these,--all good, and the tender pathos of that fine ballad
of sentiment, "Maud Muller," went to the heart of the nation. In how many an imagination does
the innocent maiden, with her delicate brown ankles,

    "Rake the meadow sweet with hay,"

and

    "The judge ride slowly down the lane"!

But though sentiment so simple and unconscious is rare, our poet has yet better in store for
us. He has developed of late years the precious power of creating homely beauty,[14]--one of
the rarest powers shown in modern literature. Homely life-scenes, homely old sanctities and
heroisms, he takes up, delineates them with intrepid fidelity to their homeliness, and, lo!
there they are, beautiful as Indian corn, or as ploughed land under an October sun! He has
thus opened an inexhaustible mine right here under our New-England feet. What will come of
it no one knows.

These poems of his are natural growths; they have their own circulation of vital juices, their
own peculiar properties; they smack of the soil, are racy and strong and aromatic, like ground-juniper,
sweet-fern, and the arbor vitæ. Set them out in the earth, and would they not sprout and grow?--nor
would need vine-shields to shelter them from the weather! They are living and local, and lean
toward the west from the pressure of east winds that blow on our coast. "Skipper Ireson's Ride,"--can
any one tell what makes that poetry? This uncertainty is the highest praise. This power of
telling a plain matter in a plain way, and leaving it there a symbol and harmony forever,--it
is the power of Nature herself. And again we repeat, that almost anything may be found in literature
more frequently than this pure creative simplicity. As a special instance of it, take three
lines which occur in an exquisite picture of natural scenery,--and which we quote the more
readily as it affords opportunity for saying that Whittier's landscape-pictures alone make
his books worthy of study,--not so much those which he sets himself deliberately to draw as
those that are incidental to some other purpose or effect.

Can any one tell what magic it is that is in these concluding lines, so that they even eclipse
the rhetorical brilliancy of those immediately preceding?

Our deep-hearted poet has fairly arrived at his poetic youth. Never was he so strong, so ruddy
and rich as to-day. Time has treated him as, according to Swedenborg, she does the angels,--chastened
indeed, but vivified. Let him hold steadily to his true vocation as a poet, and never fear
to be thought idle, or untrue to his land. To give imaginative and ideal depth to the life
of the people,--what truer service than that? And as for war-time,--does he know that "Barbara
Frietche" is the true sequel to the Battle of Gettysburg, is that other victory which the nation
asked of Meade the soldier and obtained from Whittier the poet?

THE CONVULSIONISTS OF ST. MÉDARD.

SECOND PAPER.

Having, in a previous number, furnished a brief sketch of the phenomena, purely physical, which
characterized the epidemic of St. Médard, it remains to notice those of a mental and psychological
character.

One of the most common incidents connected with the convulsions of that period was the appearance
of a mental condition, called, in the language of the day, a state of ecstasy, bearing unmistakable
analogy to the artificial somnambulism produced by magnetic influence, and to the trance of
modern spiritualism.

During this condition, there was a sudden exaltation of the mental faculties, often a wonderful
command of language, sometimes the power of thought-reading, at other times, as was alleged,
the gift of prophecy. While it lasted, the insensibility of the patients was occasionally so
complete, that, as Montgéron says, "they have been pierced in an inhuman manner, without evincing
the slightest sensation";[15] and when it passed off, they frequently did not recollect anything
they had said or done during its continuance.

At times, like somnambulism, it seemed to assume something of a cataleptic character, though
I cannot find any record of that most characteristic symptom of catalepsy, the rigid persistence
of a limb in any position in which it may be placed. What was called the "state of death,"
is thus described by Montgéron:--

"The state of death is a species of ecstasy, in which the convulsionist, whose soul seems entirely
absorbed by some vision, loses the use of his senses, wholly or in part. Some convulsionists
have remained in this state two or even three days at a time, the eyes open, without any movement,
the face very pale, the whole body insensible, immovable, and stiff as a corpse. During all
this time, they give little sign of life, other than a feeble, scarcely perceptible respiration.
Most of the convulsionists, however, have not these ecstasies so strongly marked. Some, though
remaining immovable an entire day or longer, do not continue during all that time deprived
of sight and hearing, nor are they totally devoid of sensibility; though their members, at
certain intervals, become so stiff that they lose almost entirely the use of them."[16]

The "state of death," however, was much more rare than other forms of this abnormal condition.
The Abbé d'Asfeld, in his work against the convulsionists, alluding to the state of ecstasy,
defines it as a state "in which the soul, carried away by a superior force, and, as it were,
out of itself, becomes unconscious of surrounding objects, and occupies itself with those which
imagination presents"; and he adds,--"It is marked by alienation of the senses, proceeding,
however, from some cause other than sleep. This alienation of the senses is sometimes complete,
sometimes incomplete."[17]

Montgéron, commenting on the above, says,--"This last phase, during which the alienation of
the senses is imperfect, is precisely the condition of most of the convulsionists, when in
the state of ecstasy. They usually see the persons present; they speak to them; sometimes they
hear what is said to them; but as to the rest, their souls seem absorbed in the contemplation
of objects which a superior power discloses to their vision."[18]

And a little farther on he adds,--"In these ecstasies the convulsionists are struck all of
a sudden with the unexpected aspect of some object, the sight of which enchants them with joy.
Their eyes beam; their heads are raised toward heaven; they appear as if they would fly thither.
To see them afterwards absorbed in profound contemplation, with an air of inexpressible satisfaction,
one would say that they are admiring the divine beauty. Their countenances are animated with
a lively and brilliant fire; and their eyes, which cannot be made to close during the entire
duration of the ecstasy, remain completely motionless, open, and fixed, as on the object which
seems to interest them. They are in some sort transfigured; they appear quite changed. Even
those who, out of this state, have in their physiognomy something mean or repulsive, alter
so that they can scarcely be recognized.... It is during these ecstasies that many of the convulsionists
deliver their finest discourses and their chief predictions,--that they speak in unknown tongues,--that
they read the secret thoughts of others,--and even sometimes that they give their representations."[19]

A provincial ecclesiastic, quoted by Montgéron, and who, it should be remarked, found fault
with many of the doings of the convulsionists, admits the exalted character of these declamations.
He says,--"Their discourses on religion are spirited, touching, profound,--delivered with an
eloquence and a dignity which our greatest masters cannot approach, and with a grace and appropriateness
of gesture rivalling that of our best actors.... One of the girls who pronounced such discourses
was but thirteen years and a half old; and most of them were utterly incompetent, in their
natural state, thus to treat subjects far beyond their capacity."[20]

Colbert, already quoted, bears testimony to the same effect. Writing to Madame de Coetquen,
he says,--"I have read extracts from these discourses, and have been greatly struck with them.
The expressions are noble, the views grand, the theology exact. It is impossible that the imagination,
and especially the imagination of a child, should originate such beautiful things. Sublimity
full of eloquence reigns throughout these productions."[21]

To judge fairly of this phenomenon, we must consider the previous condition and acquirements
of those who pronounced such discourses. Montgéron, while declaring that among the convulsionists
there were occasionally to be found persons of respectable standing, adds,--"But it must be
confessed that in general God has chosen the convulsionists among the common people; that they
were chiefly young children, especially girls; that almost all of them had lived till then
in ignorance and obscurity; that several of them were deformed, and some, in their natural
state, even exhibited imbecility. Of such, for the most part, it was that God made choice,
to show forth to us His power."[22]

The staple of these discourses--wild and fantastic enough--may be gathered from the following:--

"The Almighty thus raised up all of a sudden a number of persons, the greater part without
any instruction; He opened the mouths of a number of young girls, some of whom could not read;
and He caused them to announce, in terms the most magnificent, that the times had now arrived,--that
in a few years the Prophet Elias would appear,--that he would be despised and treated with
outrage by the Catholics,--that he would even be put to death, together with several of those
who had expected his coming and had become his disciples and followers,--that God would employ
this Prophet to convert all the Jews,--that they, when thus converted, would immediately carry
the light unto all nations,--that they would reëstablish Christianity throughout the world,--and
that they would preach the morality of the gospel in all its purity, and cause it to spread
over the whole earth."[23]

Montgéron, commenting (as he expresses it) upon "the manner in which the convulsionists are
supernaturally enlightened, and in which they deliver their discourses and their predictions,"
says,--

"Ordinarily, the words are not dictated to them; it is only the ideas that are presented to
their minds by a supernatural instinct, and they are left to express these thoughts in terms
of their own selection. Hence it happens that occasionally their most beautiful discourses
are marred by ill-chosen and incorrect expressions, and by phrases obscure and badly turned;
so that the beauty of some of these consists rather in the depth of thought, the grandeur of
the subjects treated, and the magnificence of the images presented, than in the language in
which the whole is rendered.

"It is evident, that, when they are thus left to clothe in their own language the ideas given
them, they are also at liberty to add to them, if they will. And, in fact, most of them declare
that they perceive within themselves the power to mix in their own ideas with those supernaturally
communicated, which suddenly seize their minds; and they are obliged to be extremely careful
not to confound their own thoughts with those which they receive from a superior intelligence.
This is sometimes the more difficult, inasmuch as the ideas thus coming to them do not always
come with equal clearness.

"Sometimes, however, the terms are dictated to them internally, but without their being forced
to pronounce them, nor hindered from adding to them, if they choose to do so.

"Finally, in regard to certain subjects,--for example, the lights which illumine their minds,
and oblige them to announce the second coming of the Prophet Elias, and all that has reference
to that great event,--their lips pronounce a succession of words wholly independently of their
will; so that they themselves listen like the auditors, having no knowledge of what they say,
except only as, word for word, it is pronounced."[24]

Montgéron appears, however, to admit that the exaltation of intelligence which is apparent
during the state of ecstasy may, to some extent, be accounted for on natural principles. Starting
from the fact, that, during the convulsions, external objects produce much less effect upon
the senses than in the natural state, he argues that "the more the soul is disembarrassed of
external impressions, the greater is its activity, the greater its power to frame thoughts,
and the greater its lucidity."[25] He admits, further,--"Although most of the convulsionists
have, when in convulsion, much more intelligence than in their ordinary state, that intelligence
is not always supernatural, but may be the mere effect of the mental activity which results
when soul is disengaged from sense. Nay, there are examples of convulsionists availing themselves
of the superior intelligence which they have in convulsion to make out dissertations on mere
temporal affairs. This intelligence, also, may at times fail to subjugate their passions; and
I am convinced that they may occasionally make a bad use of it."[26]

In another place, Montgéron says plainly, that "persons accustomed to receive revelations,
but not raised to the state of the Prophets, may readily imagine things to be revealed to them
which are but the promptings of their own minds,"[27]--and that this has happened, not only
to the convulsionists, but (by the confession of many of the ancient fathers[28]) also to the
greatest saints. But he protests against the conclusion, as illogical, that the convulsionists
never speak by the spirit of God, because they do not always do so.

He admits, however,[29] that it is extremely difficult to distinguish between what ought to
be received as divinely revealed and what ought to be rejected as originating in the convulsionist's
own mind; nor does he give any rule by which this may be done. The knowledge necessary to the
"discerning of spirits" he thinks can be obtained only by humble prayer.[30]

The power of prophecy is one of the gifts claimed by Montgéron as having been bestowed on various
convulsionists during their ecstatic state. Yet he gives no detailed proofs of prophecies touching
temporal matters having been literally fulfilled, unless it be prophecies by convulsionist-patients
in regard to the future crises of their diseases. And he admits that false predictions were
not infrequent, and that false interpretations of visions touching the future were of common
occurrence. He says,--

"It is sometimes revealed to a convulsionist, for example, that there is to happen to some
person not named a certain accident, every detail of which is minutely given; and the convulsionist
is ordered to declare what has been communicated to him, that the hand of God may be recognized
in its fulfilment.... But, at the same time, the convulsionist receiving this vision believes
it to apply to a certain person, whom he designates by name. The prediction, however, is not
verified in the case of the person named, so that those who heard it delivered conclude that
it is false; but it is verified in the case of another person, to whom the accident happens,
attended by all the minutely detailed particulars."[31]

If this be correctly given, it is what animal magnetizers would call a case of imperfect lucidity.

The case as to the gift of tongues is still less satisfactorily made out. A few, Montgéron
says, translate, after the ecstasy, what they have declaimed, during its continuance, in an
unknown tongue; but for this, of course, we have their word only. The greater part know nothing
of what they have said, when the ecstasy has passed. As to these, he admits,--

"The only proof we have that they understand the words at the time they pronounce them is that
they often express, in the most lively manner, the various sentiments contained in their discourse,
not only by their gestures, but also by the attitudes the body assumes, and by the expression
of the countenance, on which the different sentiments are painted, by turns, in a manner the
most expressive, so that one is able, up to a certain point, to detect the feelings by which
they are moved; and it has been easy for the attentive observer to perceive that most of these
discourses were detailed predictions as to the coming of the Prophet Elias," etc.[32]

If it be presumptuous, considering the marvels which modern observations disclose, to pronounce
that the alleged unknown languages were unmeaning sounds only, it is evident, at least, that
the above is inconclusive as to their true character.

Much more trustworthy appears to be the evidence touching the phenomenon of thought-reading.

The fact that many of the convulsionists were able "to discover the secrets of the heart" is
admitted by their principal opponents. The Abbé d'Asfeld himself adduces examples of it.[33]
M. Poncet admits its reality.[34] The provincial ecclesiastic whom I have already quoted says
that he "found examples without number of convulsionists who discovered the secrets of the
heart in the most minute detail: for example, to disclose to a person that at such a period
of his life he did such or such a thing; to another, that he had done so and so before coming
hither," etc.[35] The author of the "Recherche de la Vérité," a pamphlet on the phenomena of
the convulsions, which seems very candidly written, acknowledges as one of these "the manifestation
of the thoughts and the discovery of secret things."[36]

Montgéron testifies to the fact, from repeated personal observation, that they revealed to
him things known to himself alone; and after adducing the admissions above alluded to, and
some others, he adds,--"But it would be superfluous further to multiply testimony in proof
of a fact admitted by all the world, even by the avowed adversaries of the convulsions, who
have found no other method of explaining it than by doing Satan the honor to proclaim him the
author of these revelations."[37]

Besides these gifts, real or alleged, there was occasionally observed, during ecstasy, an extraordinary
development of the musical faculty. Montgéron tells us,--"Mademoiselle Dancogné, who, as was
well known, had no voice whatever in her natural state, sings in the most perfect manner canticles
in an unknown tongue, and that to the admiration of all those who hear her."[38]

As to the general character of these psychological phenomena, the theologians of that day were,
with few exceptions, agreed that they were of a supernatural character,--the usual question
mooted between them being, whether they were due to a Divine or to a Satanic influence. The
medical opponents of the movement sometimes took the ground that the state of ecstasy was allied
to delirium or insanity,--and that it was a degraded condition, inasmuch as the patient abandoned
the exercise of his free will: an argument similar to that which has been made in our day against
somewhat analogous phenomena, by a Bostonian.[39]

In concluding a sketch, in which, though it be necessarily a brief one, I have taken pains
to set forth with strict accuracy all the essential features which mark the character of this
extraordinary epidemic, it is proper I should state that the opponents of Jansenism concur
in bringing against the convulsionists the charge that many of them were not only ignorant
and illiterate girls, but persons of bad character, occasionally of notoriously immoral habits;
nay, that some of them justified the vicious courses in which they indulged by declaring these
to be a representation of a religious tendency, emblematic of that degradation through which
the Church must pass, before, recalled by the voice of Elias, it regained its pristine purity.

Montgéron, while admitting that such charges may justly be brought against some of the convulsionists,
denies the general truth of the allegation, yet after such a fashion that one sees plainly
he considers it necessary, in establishing the character and divine source of the discourses
and predictions delivered in the state of ecstasy, to do so without reference to the moral
standing of the ecstatics. When one of his opponents (the physician who addressed to him the
satirical letter already referred to) ascribes to him the position, that one must decide the
divine or diabolical state of a person alleged to be inspired by reference to that person's
morals and conduct, he replies,--"God forbid that I should advance so false a proposition!"
And he proceeds to argue that the Deity often avails Himself, as a medium for expressing His
will, of unworthy subjects. He says,--

"Who does not know that the Holy Spirit, whose divine rays are never stained, let them shine
where they will, 'bloweth where it listeth,' and distributes its gifts to whom best it seems,
without always causing these to be accompanied by internal virtues? Does not Scripture inform
us that God caused miracles to be wrought and great prophecies to be delivered by very vicious
persons, as Judas, Caiaphas, Balaam, and others? Jesus Christ himself teaches us that there
will be workers of iniquity among the number of those who prophesy and of those who will work
miracles in his name, declaring that on the Day of Judgment many will say unto him, 'Lord,
have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name done many wonderful works?' and that he
will reply to them, 'Depart from me, ye that work iniquity.'"

And he proceeds thus:--"If, therefore, all that our enemies allege against the character of
the convulsionists were true, it does not follow that God would not employ such persons as
the ministers of His miracles and His prophecies, provided, always, that these miracles and
these prophecies have a worthy object, and tend to a knowledge of the truth, to the spread
of charity, and to the reformation of the morals of mankind."[40]

These accusations of immorality are, probably, greatly exaggerated by the enemies of the Jansenists;
yet one may gather, even from the tenor of Montgéron's defence, that there was more or less
truth in the charges brought against the conduct of some of the convulsionists, and that the
state of ecstasy, whatever its true nature, was by no means confined to persons of good moral
character.

Such are the alleged facts, physical and mental, connected with this extraordinary episode
in the history of mental epidemics.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the perusal of such a narrative as the above, the questions which naturally suggest themselves
are,--To what extent can we rationally attach credit to it? And, if true, what is the explanation
of phenomena apparently so incredible?

As to the first, the admission of a distinguished contemporary historian, noted for his skeptical
tendencies, in regard to the evidence for these alleged miracles, is noteworthy. Diderot, speaking
of the St.-Médard manifestations, says,--"We have of these pretended miracles a vast collection,
which may brave the most determined incredulity. Its author, Carré de Montgéron, is a magistrate,
a man of gravity, who up to that time had been a professed materialist,--on insufficient grounds,
it is true, but yet a man who certainly had no expectation of making his fortune by becoming
a Jansenist. An eye-witness of the facts he relates, and of which he had an opportunity of
judging dispassionately and disinterestedly, his testimony is indorsed by that of a thousand
others. All relate what they have seen; and their depositions have every possible mark of authenticity;
the originals being recorded and preserved in the public archives."[42]

Even in the very denunciations of opponents we find corroboratory evidence of the main facts
in question. Witness the terms in which the Bishop of Bethléem declaims against the scenes
of St. Médard:--"What! we find ecclesiastics, priests, in the midst of numerous assemblies
composed of persons of every rank and of both sexes, doffing their cassocks, habiting themselves
in shirt and trousers, the better to be able to act the part of executioners, casting on the
ground young girls, dragging them face-downward along the earth, and then discharging on their
bodies innumerable blows, till they themselves, the dealers of these blows, are reduced to
such a state of exhaustion that they are obliged to have water poured on their heads! What!
we find men pretending to sentiments of religion and humanity dealing, with the full swing
of their arms, thirty or forty thousand blows with heavy clubs on the arms, on the legs, on
the heads of young girls, and making other desperate efforts capable of crushing the skulls
of the sufferers! What! we find cultivated ladies, pious and of high rank, doctors of law,
civil and canonical, laymen of character, even curates, daily witnessing this spectacle of
fanaticism and horror in silence, instead of opposing it with all their force; nay, they applaud
it by their presence, even by their countenance and their conversation! Was ever, throughout
all history, such another example of excesses thus scandalous, thus multiplied?"[43]

De Lan, another opponent, thus sketches the same scenes:--"Young girls, bareheaded, dashed
their heads against a wall or against a marble slab; they caused their limbs to be drawn by
strong men, even to the extent of dislocation;[44] they caused blows to be given them that
would kill the most robust, and in such numbers that one is terrified. I know one person who
counted four thousand at a single sitting; they were given sometimes with the palm of the hand,
sometimes with the fist; sometimes on the back, sometimes on the stomach. Occasionally, heavy
cudgels or clubs were employed instead[45].... Some convulsionists ran pins into their heads,
without suffering any pain; others would have thrown themselves from the windows, had they
not been prevented. Others, again, carried their zeal so far as to cause themselves to be hanged
up by a hook," etc.[46]

Modern medical writers of reputation usually admit the main facts, and seek a natural explanation
of them. In the article, "Convulsions," in the great "Dictionnaire des Sciences Médicales,"
(published in 1812-22,) which article is from the pen of an able physiologist, Dr. Montègre,
we find the following, in regard to the St.-Médard phenomena:--"Carré de Montgéron surrounded
these prodigies with depositions so numerous and so authentic, that, after having examined
them, no doubt can remain.... However great my reluctance to admit such facts, it is impossible
for me to refuse to receive them." As to the succors, so-called, he frankly confesses that
they seem to him as fully proved as the rest. He says,--"There are the same witnesses, and
the incidents themselves are still more clear and precise. It is not so much of cures that
there is question in this case, as of apparent and external facts, in regard to which there
can be no misconception."

Dr. Calmeil, in his well-known work on Insanity, while regarding this epidemic as one of the
most striking examples of religious mania, accepts the relation of Montgéron as in the main
true. "From various motives," says he, "these theomaniacs sought out the most frightful bodily
tortures. Would it be credible, if it were not that the entire population of Paris concurred
in testifying to the fact, that more than five hundred women pushed the rage of fanaticism
or the perversion of sensibility to such a point, that they exposed themselves to burning fires,
that they had their heads compressed between boards, that they caused to be administered on
the abdomen, on the breast, on the stomach, on every part of the body, blows of clubs, stampings
of the feet, blows with weapons of stone, with bars of iron? Yet the theomaniacs of St. Médard
braved all these tests, sometimes as proofs that God had rendered them invulnerable, sometimes
to demonstrate that God could cure them by means calculated to kill them, had they not been
the objects of His special protection, sometimes to show that blows usually painful only caused
to them pleasant relief. The picture of the punishments to which the convulsionists submitted,
as if by inspiration, so that no one might doubt, as Montgéron has it, that it was easy for
the Almighty to render invulnerable and insensible bodies the most frail and delicate, would
induce us to believe, if the contrary were not so conclusively established, that a rage for
homicide and suicide had taken possession of the greater part of the sect of the Appellants."[47]

Though I am acquainted with no class of phenomena occurring elsewhere that will match the "Great
Succors" of St. Médard, yet we find occasional glimpses of instincts somewhat analogous to
those claimed for the convulsionists, in other examples. Dr. Bertrand tells us that the first
patient he ever magnetized, being attacked by a disease of an hysterical character, became
subject to convulsions of so long duration and so violent in character, that he had never,
in all his practice, seen the like; and that she suffered horribly. He adds,--"Here is what
happened during her first convulsion-fits. This unhappy girl, whose instinct was perverted
by intensity of pain, earnestly entreated the persons present to press upon her with such force
as at any other time would have produced the most serious injury. I had the greatest difficulty
to prevent those around her from acceding to her urgent requests that they would kneel upon
her with all their weight, that they would exert with their hands the utmost pressure on the
pit of her stomach, even on her throat, with the view of driving off the imaginary hysterical
ball of which she complained. Though at any other time such treatment would have produced severe
pain, she declared that it relieved her; and when the fit passed off, she did not seem to suffer
the least inconvenience from it."[50]

The above, connecting as it does the phenomena exhibited during the St.-Médard epidemic with
those observed by animal magnetizers, brings us to the second query, namely, as to the cause
of these phenomena.

And here we find physicians, not mesmerists, comparing these phenomena, and others of the same
class, with the effects observed by animal magnetizers. Dr. Montègre, already quoted, says,--"The
phenomena of magnetism, and those presented by cases of possession and of fascination, connect
themselves with those observed among the convulsionists, not only by the most complete resemblance,
but also by the cause which determines them. There is not a single phenomenon observed in the
one case that has not its counterpart in the others."[51]

Calmeil, while admitting that the "nervous effects produced by animal magnetizers bear a close
resemblance to those which have been observed at Loudun, at Louviers, and during other convulsive
epidemics," offers the following, in explanation of the physical phenomena connected with the
"Great Succors":--

"The energetic resistance, which, in the case of the convulsionists, the skin, the cellular
tissue, and the surface of the body and limbs offered to the shock of blows, is certainly calculated
to excite surprise. But many of these fanatics greatly deceived themselves, when they imagined
that they were invulnerable; for it has been repeatedly proved that several of them, as a consequent
of the cruel trials they solicited, suffered from large ecchymoses on the integuments, and
numerous contusions on those portions of the surface which were exposed to the rudest attacks.
For the rest, the blows were never administered except during the torments of convulsion; and
at that time the tympany (météorisme) of the abdomen, the state of spasm of the uterus in women
and of the alimentary canal in both sexes, the state of contraction, of orgasm, of turgescence
in the fleshy envelopes, in the muscular layers which protect and inclose the abdomen, the
thorax, the principal vascular trunks, and the bony surfaces, must essentially contribute to
weaken, to deaden, to nullify, the effect of the blows. Is it not by means of an analogous
state of orgasm, which an over-excited will produces, that boxers and athletes find themselves
in a condition to brave, to a certain point, the dangers of their profession? In fine, it is
to be remarked, that, when dealing blows on the bodies of the convulsionists, the assistants
employed weapons of considerable volume, having flat or rounded surfaces, cylindrical or blunted.
But the action of such physical agents is not to be compared, as regards its danger, with that
of thongs, switches, or other supple and flexible instruments with distinct edges. Finally,
the contact and the repeated impression of the blows produced on the convulsionists the effect
of a sort of salutary pounding, and rendered less poignant and less sensible the tortures of
hysteria. It would have been preferable, doubtless, to make use of less murderous succors;
the rage for distinction as the possessor of a miraculous gift, even more perhaps than the
instinctive need of immediate relief, prompting these convulsionary theomaniacs to make choice
of means calculated to act on the imagination of a populace, whose interest could be kept awake
only by a constant repetition of wonders."[52]

Calmeil, of all the medical authors I have consulted, appears to have the most closely studied
the various phases of the St.-Médard epidemic.[53] Yet the explanations above given seem to
me quite incommensurate with the phenomena admitted.

Some of the patients, he says, suffered from ecchymosis and contusions. In plain, unprofessional
language, they were beaten black and blue. That is such a result as usually follows a few blows
from a boxer's fist or from an ordinary walking-stick. But when the weapon employed is a rough
iron bar weighing upwards of twenty-nine pounds, when the number of blows dealt in succession
on the pit of the stomach of a young girl exceeds a hundred and fifty, and when these are delivered
with the utmost force of an athletic man, is it bruises and contusions we look for as the only
consequence? Or does it explain the immunity with which this frightful infliction was received,
to call it a salutary pounding? The argument drawn from the turgescence of the viscera and
other organs, from the spasmodic contraction of the muscles and the general state of orgasm
of the system, has doubtless great weight; but does it reach far enough to explain to us the
fact, (if it be a fact, and as such Calmeil accepts it,) that a girl, bent back so that her
head and feet touched the floor, the centre of the vertebral column being supported on a sharp-pointed
stake, received, day after day, with impunity, directly on her stomach and bowels, one hundred
times in succession, a flint stone weighing fifty pounds, dropped suddenly from a height of
twelve or fifteen feet? Boxers, it is true, in the excited state in which they enter the ring,
receive, unmoved, from their opponents blows which would prostrate a man not prepared, by hard
training, for the trial. But even such blows, in the end, sometimes prove mortal; and what
should we say of substituting for the human fist a sharp-pointed rapier, and expecting that
the tension of the nervous system would render impenetrable the skin of the combatant? Finally,
it is to be admitted, that flexible weapons, especially if loaded, as the cat-o'-nine-tails,
still used in some countries as an instrument of military punishment, occasionally is, with
hard, angular substances, are among the most severe that can be employed to inflict punishment
or destroy life. But what would even the poor condemned soldier, shrinking from that terrible
instrument of torture which modern civilization has not yet been shamed into discarding, think
of the proposal to substitute for it the andiron with which Montgéron, at the twenty-fifth
blow, broke an opening through a stone wall,--the executioner-drummer being commanded to deal,
with his utmost strength, one hundred and sixty blows in succession, with that ponderous bar,
(a bar with rough edges, no cylindrical rod,) not on the back of the culprit, but on his unprotected
breast?

No wonder that De Gasparin, with all his aversion for the supernatural, and all his disinclination
to admit anything which he cannot explain, after quoting from Calmeil the above explanation,
feels its insufficiency, and seeks another. These are his words:--

"How does it happen, that, after being struck with the justice of these observations, one still
retains a sort of intellectual uneasiness, a certain suspicion of the disproportion between
the explanation and the phenomena it seeks to explain? How does it happen, that, under the
influence of such an impression, many suffer themselves to be seduced into an admission of
diabolical or miraculous agency? It happens, because Dr. Calmeil, faithful to the countersign
of all learned bodies in England and France, refuses to admit fluidic action, or to make a
single step in advance of the ordinary theory of nervous excitement. Now it is in vain to talk
of contractions, of spasms, of turgescence; all this evidently fails to reach the case of the
St.-Médard succors. To reach it we need the intervention of a peculiar force,--of a fluid which
is disengaged, sometimes by the effect of certain crises, sometimes by the power of magnetism
itself. Those who systematically keep up this hiatus in the study of human physiology are the
best allies of the superstitions they profess to combat.... Suppose that study seriously undertaken,
with what precision should we resolve the problem of which now we can but indicate the solution!
Habituated to the wonders of the nervous fluid, knowing that it can raise, at a distance, inert
objects, that it can biologize, that it can communicate suppleness or rigidity, the highest
development of the senses or absolute insensibility, we should not be greatly surprised to
discover that it communicates also, in certain cases, elasticity and that degree of impenetrability
which characterizes gum-elastic."[54]

De Gasparin further explains his theory in the following passage:--"The great difficulty is
not to explain the perversion of sensibility exhibited by the convulsionists. Aside from that
question, does it not remain incomprehensible that feeble women should have received, without
being a hundred times crushed to pieces, the frightful blows of which we have spoken? How can
we explain such a power of resistance? A very small change, operated by the nervous fluid,
would suffice to render the matter very simple. Let us suppose the skin and fibres of the convulsionists
to acquire, in virtue of their peculiar state of excitement, a consistency analogous to that
of gum-elastic; then all the facts that astonish us would become as natural as possible. With
convulsionists of gum-elastic,[55] or, rather, whose bony framework was covered with muscles
and tissues of gum-elastic, what would happen?"

He then proceeds to admit that "a vigorous thrust with a rapier, or stroke with a sabre, as
such thrusts and strokes are usually dealt, would doubtless penetrate such an envelope"; but,
he alleges, the St.-Médard convulsionists never, in a single instance, permitted such thrusts
or strokes, with rapier or sabre, to be given; prudently restricting themselves to pressure
only, exerted after the sword-point had been placed against the body. He reminds us, further,
that neither razors nor pistol-balls, both of which would penetrate gum-elastic, were ever
tried on the convulsionists; and he adds,--"Neither flint stones nor andirons nor clubs nor
swords and spits, pressed against it, would have broken the surface of the gum-elastic envelope.
They would have produced no visible injury. At the most, they might have caused a certain degree
of internal friction, more or less serious, according to the thickness of the gum-elastic cuirass
which covered the bones and the various organs."[56]

I am fain to confess, that this imagining of men and women of gum-elastic, all but the skeleton,
does not seem to me so simple a matter as it appears to have been regarded by M. de Gasparin.
Let us take it for granted that his theory of a nervous fluid, which is the agent in table-moving,[57]
is the true one. How is the mere disengaging of such a fluid to work a sudden transmutation
of muscular and tendinous fibre and cellular tissue into a substance possessing the essential
properties of a vegetable gum? And what becomes of the skin, ordinarily so delicate, so easily
abraded or pierced, so readily injured? Is that transmuted also? Let us concede it. But the
concession does not suffice. There remain the bones and cartilages, naturally so brittle, so
liable to fracture. Let us even suppose the breast and stomach of a convulsionist protected
by an artificial coating of actual gum-elastic, would it be a safe experiment to drop upon
it, from a height of twelve feet, a flint stone weighing fifty pounds? We are expressly told
that the ribs bent under the terrible shock, and sank, flattened, even to the backbone. Is
it not certain, that human ribs and cartilages, in their normal state, would have snapped off,
in spite of the interposed protection? Must we not, then, imagine osseous and cartilaginous
fibre, too, transmuted? Indeed, while we are about it, I do not see why we should stop short
of the skeleton. Since we understand nothing of the manner of transmutation, it is as easy
to imagine bone turned to gum-elastic, as skin and muscle and tendon.

In truth, if we look at it narrowly, this theory of De Gasparin is little more than a virtual
admission, that, during convulsion, by some sudden change, the bodies of the patients did,
as they themselves declared, become, to a marvellous extent, invulnerable,--with the suggestion
added, that the nervous fluid may, after some unexplained fashion, have been the agent of that
change.

For the rest, though the alleged analogy between the properties of gum-elastic and those which,
in this abnormal state, the human body seems to acquire, is, to a certain extent, sustained
by many of the observations above recorded,--for example, when a sharp-pointed rapier, violently
pushed against Gabrielle Moler's throat, sank to the depth of four finger-breadths, and, when
drawn back, seeming to attach itself to the skin, drew it back also, causing a trifling injury,--yet
others seem to prove that there is little strictness in that analogy. The King's Chaplain and
the Advocate of Parliament, whose testimony I have cited, both certify that the flesh occasionally
reacted under the sword, swelling up, so as to thrust back the weapons, and even push back
the assistants. There is no corresponding property in gum-elastic. And Montgéron expressly
tells us, that, at the close of a terrible succor called for by Gabrielle Moler, when she caused
four sharpened shovels, placed, one above, one below, and one on each side, of one of her breasts,
to be pushed by the main force of four assistants, a committee of ladies present "had the curiosity
to examine her breast immediately after this operation, and unanimously certified that they
found it as hard as a stone."[58] If this observation can be depended on, the gum-elastic theory,
even as an analogically approximating explanation of this entire class of phenomena, is untenable.

It is further to be remarked, that one of the positions assumed by M. de Gasparin, as the basis
of his hypothesis, does not tally with some of the facts detailed by Montgéron. It was pushes
with swords, the former alleges, never thrusts, to which the convulsionists were exposed. I
have already stated that this was usually the fact; but there seem to have been striking exceptions.
On the authority of a priest and of an officer of the royal household, Montgéron gives us the
details of a symbolical combat of the most desperate character, with rapiers, between Sisters
Madeleine and Félicité, occurring in May, 1744, in the presence of thirty persons. One of the
witnesses says,--"I know not if I ever saw enemies attack each other with more fury or less
circumspection. They fell upon one another without the slightest precaution, thrusting against
each other with the points of their rapiers at hap-hazard, wherever the thrust happened to
take effect. And this they did again and again, and with all the force of which, in convulsion,
they were capable,--which, as all the world knows, is a force far greater than the same persons
possess in their ordinary state."

And the officer thus further certifies:--"After the combat, Madeleine took two short swords,
resembling daggers, and, holding one in each hand, dealt seven or eight blows, pushed home
with all her strength, on the breast of Félicité, raising her hands and then stabbing with
the utmost eagerness, just as an assassin who wished to murder some one would plunge two daggers
repeatedly into his breast. Félicité received the strokes with perfect tranquillity, and without
evincing the slightest emotion. Then, taking two similar daggers, she did the very same to
Madeleine, who, with her arms crossed, received the thrusts as tranquilly as the other had
done. Immediately afterwards, these two convulsionists attacked one another with daggers, as
with the fury of two maniacs, who, having resolved on mutual destruction, were solely bent
each on poniarding the other."[59]

It is added, that "neither the one nor the other received the least appearance of a wound,
nor did either seem at all fatigued by so long and furious an exercise."

It is not stated, in this particular instance, as it is in others, that these girls were examined
by a committee of their sex, before or after the combat, to ascertain that they had under their
dresses no concealed means of protection; so that the possibility of trickery must be admitted.
If, as the officer who certifies appears convinced, all was fair, then M. de Gasparin's admission
that a vigorous sword-thrust would penetrate the gum-elastic envelope is fatal to the theory
he propounds.

Yet, withal, we may reasonably assent to the probability that M. de Gasparin, in seeking an
explanation of these marvellous phenomena, may have proceeded in the right direction. Modern
physicians admit, that, at times, during somnambulism, complete insensibility, resembling hysteric
coma, prevails.[60] But if, as is commonly believed, this insensibility is caused by some modification
or abnormal condition of the nervous fluid, then to some other modification or changed condition
of the same fluid comparative invulnerability may be due. For there is connection, to a certain
extent, between insensibility and invulnerability. A patient rendered unconscious of pain,
by chloroform or otherwise, throughout the duration of a severe and prolonged surgical operation,
escapes a perilous shock to the nervous system, and may survive an ordeal which, if he had
felt the agony usually induced, would have proved fatal. Pain is not only a warning monitor,
it becomes also, sometimes, the agent of punishment, if the warning be disregarded.

But, on the other hand, we must not forget that insensibility and invulnerability, though to
a certain extent allied, are two distinct things. Injury the most serious may occur without
the premonitory warning, even without immediate subsequent suffering. A person in a perfect
state of insensibility might doubtless receive, without experiencing any pain whatever, a blow
that would shatter the bones of a limb, and render it powerless for life. Indeed, there is
on record a well-attested case of a poor pedestrian, who, having laid himself down on the platform
of a lime-kiln, and dropping asleep, and the fire having increased and burnt off one foot to
the ankle, rose in the morning to depart, and knew nothing of his misfortune, until, putting
his burnt limb to the ground, to support his body in rising, the extremity of his leg-bone,
calcined into lime, crumbled to fragments beneath him.[61]

Contemporary medical authorities, even when they have the rare courage to deny to the convulsions
either a divine or a diabolical character, furnish no explanation of them more satisfactory
than the citing of similar cases, more or less strongly attested, in the past.[62] This may
confirm our faith in the reality of the phenomena, but does not resolve our difficulties as
to the causes of them.

It does not fall within my purpose to hazard any opinion as to these causes, nor, if it did,
am I prepared to offer any. Some considerations might be adduced, calculated to lessen our
wonder as to an occasional phenomenon on this marvellous record. Physiologists, for example,
are agreed that the common opinion as to the sensibility of the interior of the eye is an incorrect
one;[63] and that consideration might be put forth, when we read that Sisters Madeleine and
Félicité suffered with impunity swords to be pressed against that delicate organ, until the
point sank an inch beneath its surface. But all such isolated considerations are partial, inconclusive,
and, as regards any general satisfactory explanation, far short of the requirements of the case.

More weight may justly be given to another consideration: to the exaggerations inseparable
from enthusiasm, and the inaccuracies into which inexperienced observers must ever fall. As
to the necessity of making large allowance for these, I entirely agree with Calmeil and De
Gasparin. But let the allowance made for such errors be more or less, it cannot extend to an
absolute denial of the chief phenomena, unless we are prepared to follow Hume in his assertion
that what is contrary to our experience can be proved by no evidence of testimony whatever,--and
that, though we have here nothing, save the marvellous character of the events, to oppose to
the cloud of witnesses who attest them, that alone, in the eyes of reasonable people, should
be regarded as a sufficient refutation.[64]

The mental and psychological phenomena, only less marvellous than the physical because we have
seen more of their like, will, on that account, be more readily received.

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS.

BY CHRISTOPHER CROWFIELD.

III.

SONG.

    We have been lovers now, my dear,
      It matters nothing to say how long,
    But still at the coming round o' th' year
      I make for my pleasure a little song;
    And thus of my love I sing, my dear,--
    So much the more by a year, by a year.

    And still as I see the day depart,
      And hear the bat at my window flit,
    I sing the little song to my heart,
      With just a change at the close of it;
    And thus of my love I sing alway,--
    So much the more by a day, by a day.

    When in the morning I see the skies
      Breaking into a gracious glow,
    I say you are not my sweetheart's eyes,
      Your brightness cannot mislead me so;
    And I sing of my love in the rising light,--
    So much the more by a night, by a night.

    Both at the year's sweet dawn and close,
      When the moon is filling, or fading away,
    Every day, as it comes and goes,
      And every hour of every day,
    My little song I repeat and repeat,--
    So much the more by an hour, my sweet!

OUR SOLDIERS.

We entered gayly on our great contest. At the first sound from Sumter, enthusiasm blazed high
and bright. Bells rang out, flags waved, the people rose as one man to cheer on our troops,
and the practical American nation, surveying itself with astonishment, pronounced itself--finger
on pulse--enthusiastic; and though, in the light of the present steadily burning determination,
it has been the fashion gently to smile at that quick upspringing blaze, and at the times when
it was gravely noted how the privates of our army took daily baths and wore Colt's revolvers,
and pet regiments succumbed under showers of Havelocks, in contrast with the grim official
reports of to-day, I cannot but think that enthusiasm healthful, and in itself a lesson, if
only that it proves beyond question that our patriotism was not simply a dweller on the American
tongue, but a thing of the American heart, so vitalizing us, so woven every day into the most
minute ramifications of our living, so inner and recognized a part of our thinking, that there
have been found some to doubt its existence, just as we half forget the gracious air, because
no labored gasps, in place of our sure and even breathing, ever by any chance announce to us
that somewhere there have been error and confusion in its vast workings.

Bitterer texts were ready all too soon. When we heard how one had fallen, bayoneted at the
guns, and another was struck, charging on the foe, and a third had died after long lingering
in hospital,--when we saw our brave boys, whom we had sent out with huzzas, coming back to
us with the blood and grime of battle upon them, maimed, ghastly, dying, dead,--we knew that
we, whom God had hitherto so blessed that we were compelled to look into the annals of other
nations for misery and strife, had now commenced a record of our own. Henceforth there was
for us a new literature, new grooves of thought, new interests. By all the love of father,
brother, husband, and children, we must learn more of this tragic and tender lore; and our
soldiers have been a thought not far from the heart and lips of any one of us, and what is
done, or doing, or possible for them, held worthiest of our thought and time.

Respecting these, we have had all to learn. True, with us, satisfaction has at all times followed
close upon the announcement of a need; but wisdom in planning and administering is not a marketable
commodity, and so we are educating ourselves up to the emergency,--the whole mighty nation
at school, and learning, we are bound to say, with Yankee quickness. Love has been for us,
also, a marvellous brain-prompter. Some of our grandest charities--I mean charities in the
broadest and sweetest sense, for it is we who owe, not our soldiers--have been the inspiration
of a moment's need,--thoughts of the people, who, in crises and at instance of the heart, think
well and swiftly. Take this one example.

When New England's sons seized their arms, the first to answer the trumpet-call that rang out
over the land, and went in the spirit of their fathers to the battle,--when these men passed
through Philadelphia, hungry and weary, the great heart of the city went out to meet them.
Citizens brought them into their houses, the neighboring shops gave gladly what they could,
women came running with food snatched from their own tables, and even little squalid children
toddled out of by-lanes and alleys with loaves and half-loaves, all that they had to give,
so did the whole people yearn over their defenders; and then it was seen how other regiments
would come to them, ready for the fray, but dusty and way-worn, and how the ambulances would
bring them back parched and fainting, and--it was hardly known how, only that, as in the old
times, "the people were of one mind and one accord," and brought of such things as they had;
but on that sad, yet proud day, that brought back to them those who fell in Baltimore on the
memorable nineteenth of April,--the heroes in whom all claim a share, and the right to say,
not only Massachusetts's dead and wounded, but ours--there was ready for them a shelter in
the unpretending building famous since as the Cooper Shop. There the people crowded about them,
weeping, blessing, consoling; and from that day there has no regiment from New England, New
York, or any other State, been suffered to pass through Philadelphia unrefreshed. Water was
supplied them, and tables ready spread, by the Volunteer Corps always in attendance, within
five minutes after the firing of the gun that announced their arrival. There was shortly added,
also, a volunteer hospital for the more dangerously wounded when first brought from the battle-field,
and of it is told a story that Americans will like to hear.

It is of a Wisconsin soldier, who, taken prisoner, effected his escape from Richmond. Hiding
by day, he forced his way at night through morass and forest, snatched such sleep as he dared
on the damp and sodden earth, went without food whole days, reached our lines bruised, torn,
shivering, starving, and his wounds, which had never been properly cared for, opened afresh.
Let him tell the rest, straight from his heart.

"When I had my rubber blanket to wrap about me, I was comfortable, and, snug and warm in the
cars, I thought myself happy; and when I heard them talk of the 'Cooper Shop,' I said to myself,
'A cooper's shop! that will be the very place of all the earth, for there I shall have a roof
over me, and the shavings will be so warm and dry to lie upon!' but when they carried me in,
and I opened my eyes and saw what was the Cooper Shop, and the long tables all loaded for the
poor soldiers, and when they took me to the hospital up-stairs, and placed me in a bed, and
real ladies and gentlemen, with tears in their eyes, came and waited on me, my manliness left me."

A want of manliness, O honest heart, for which there need be no shame! Precious tribute to
our country's great love for her sons! For this is no sectional charity, only one example culled
from thousands; for the land must, of a necessity, be overshadowed by the tree that has a root
under almost every Northern hearth-stone; and then see how we are all bound together by the
heart-strings!

Forty thousand men-at-arms are looking gravely at the height towering above the valley in which
they stand. "Impregnable" military science pronounced it; but the men scaling it know nothing
of this word "impregnable." They have heard nothing of an order for retreat,--they are filled
with a divine wrath of battle, and each man is as mad as his neighbor, and the officers are
powerless to hold them back, and catch the infection and are swept on with them, and climbing,
jumping, slipping, toiling on hands and knees, swinging from tree and bush, any way, any how,
but always onward, never backward, they surge up over the mountain-top, deadly volleys crashing
right in among them, and set on the Rebels with a wild hurrah! and the hearts below beat faster,
and rough lips curse the blinding smoke and fog that veil all the crest, and on a sudden a
shout,--such a one as the children of Israel gave, when the high-piled walls of water bent
and swayed and came waving and thundering down on Pharaoh's hopeless hosts,--for there, high
up in heaven, streaming out through parting smoke, is the flag, torn, blood-stained, ball-riddled,
but the dear old red, white, and blue, waving over the enemy's works; and then the telegraph
flashed out the brave news over the exulting country, and the press took up the story, and
women said, with kindling faces, "My son, or my brother, or my husband may be dead, but, oh,
our boys have done glorious things at Lookout Mountain!"--and History will tell how a grander
charge was never made, and calmly note the loss in dead and wounded,--so many thousands,--and
pass on.

But we are not History, and our dead,--well, we will give them graves that shall be ever green
with laurels, and their swords shall be our most precious legacy to our children, and their
memories shall be a part of our household; but our wounded, for whom there is yet hope, who
may yet live,--the cry goes up from Wisconsin, and Maine, and Iowa, and New York, Pennsylvania,
Ohio, Massachusetts, Where are they, and how cared for? We are all, as I said, bound by the
heartstrings in a common interest. The Boston woman with her boy in the Army of the Cumberland,
and the Maine mother with one in New Orleans or Texas, and the Kansas father with a son in
the Army of the Potomac, all clamor, "Is mine among the wounded, and do care and science for
him all that care and science should?"

The Field Relief Corps of the Sanitary Commission are prompt on the battle-field, reaching
the groaning sufferers even before their own surgeons. Said one man, lying there badly wounded,--

"And what do they pay yez for this? What do you get?"

"Pay! We ask nothing, only the soldier's 'God bless you.'"

"And is that all? Then sure here's plenty of the coin, fresh minted! God bless you! God bless
you! and the good Lord be good to you, and remember yez as you have remembered us, and love
yez and your children after you; and sure, if that is all, it's plenty of that sort of pay
the poor soldier has for you!"

God bless such men! we echo; but after that, what then? Our beloved are taken to the hospitals,
and we know, in a general way, that hospitals are buildings containing long rows of beds, and
that science is doing its utmost in their behalf; but when our friends write us from across
seas, they tell us, not only how they are, but where,--jotting down little pen-and-ink pictures
to show us how stands the writing-table, and how hangs the picture, and where is the fauteuil,
that we may see them as they are daily; so we crave something more, we feel shut out, we want
to get at their daily living, to know something of hospital-life.

Hospitals have sprung up as if sown broadcast, and these, too, of no mean order. True, in our
first haste and inexperience, viciously planned hospitals were erected; but these and the Crimean
blunders have served us as beacons, and the anxious care of the Government has been untiring,
the outlay of money and things more precious unbounded; and those who have had this weighty
matter in charge have no reason to fear an account of their stewardship. The Boston Free Hospital
in excellence of plan and beauty of design can be excelled by none. Philadelphia boasts the
two largest military hospitals in the world. Of the twenty-three in and about Washington many
are worthy of all praise. The general hospital at Fort Schuyler is admirable in plan and locale,
and this latter condition is found to be of vast importance. A Rebel battery, with an incurable
habit of using the hospital as a target, would scarcely be so dangerous as a low, water-sogged,
clayey soil, with its inevitable results of fever, rheumatism, and bowel-complaints.

Spotless cleanliness is another indispensable characteristic,--not only urged, but enforced;
for there is no such notable housewife as the Government. The vast "Mower" Hospital at Chestnut
Hill, the largest in the world, is as well kept as a lady's boudoir should be. It is built
around a square of seven acres, in which stand the surgeon's lecture-room, the chapel, the
platform for the band, etc. A long corridor goes about this square, rounded at the corners,
and lighted on one side by numerous large windows, which, if removed in summer, must leave
it almost wholly open. From the opposite side radiate the sick-wards, fifty in number, one
story in height, one hundred and seventy-five feet in length, and twenty feet farther apart
at the extremity than at the corridor, thus completely isolating them from each other. A railway
runs the length of the corridor, on which small cars convey meals to the mess-rooms attached
to each of the wards for those who are unable to leave them, stores, and even the sick themselves;
and the corridor, closed in winter and warmed by stoves, forms a huge and airy exercise-hall
for the convalescent patients. As for the cooking-facilities, they are something prodigious,
at least in the sight of ordinary kitchens, leaving nothing to be desired, unless it were that
discriminating kettle of the Erse king, that could cook for any given number of men and apportion
the share of each to his rank and needs. Such a kettle might make the "extra-diet" kitchen
unnecessary; otherwise, I can hardly tell where improvement would be possible.

But though, with the exception of the West Philadelphia, none can compare in hugeness with
this Skrymir of hospitals, the hospital-buildings, as a rule, have everywhere a strong family-likeness.
The pavilion-system, which isolates each of the sick-wards, allowing it free circulation of
air about three of its sides, is conceded to be the only one worthy of attention, and is introduced
in all such buildings of modern date. Ridge-ventilation, obtained by means of openings on either
side of the ridge, is also very generally used, and advocated even in permanent hospitals of
stone and brick. Science and Common Sense at last have fraternized, and work together hand
in hand. The good old-fashioned plan of slowly stewing the patient to death, or at least to
a fever, in confined air and stale odors, equal parts, is almost abandoned; and to speak after
the manner of Charles Reade, "Nature gets now a pat on the back, instead of a kick under the
bed." Proper ventilation begins, ends, and forms the gist of almost every chapter in our hospital-manuals;
and I think they should be excellent summer-reading, for a pleasant breeze seems to rustle
every page, so earnestly is, first, pure air, second, pure air, and third, pure air, impressed
upon the student, "line upon line and precept upon precept."

The Mower Hospital, which employs ten hundred and fifty gas-burners, uses daily one hundred
and fifty thousand gallons of water, and can receive between five and six thousand patients,
is free even from a suspicion of the "hospital-smell." The Campbell and Harewood, at Washington,
are models in this respect, and can rank with many a handsome drawing-room. The last-named
institution is also delightfully situated on grounds once belonging to the Rebel Corcoran,
comprising some two hundred acres, laid out with shaded walks, and adorned with rustic bridges
and summer-houses,--a fashion of deriving aid and comfort from the enemy which doesn't come
under the head of treason.

On hygienic grounds, all possible traps are set to catch sunbeams. One hospital has a theatre
in the mess-room, of which the scenery is painted by a convalescent, and the stage, foot-lights,
etc., are the work of the soldiers. The performers are amateurs, taken from among the patients;
and the poor fellows who can be moved, but are unable to walk, are carried down in the dumb-waiter
to share in the entertainment. Another has a library, reading-room, and a printing-press, which
strikes off a weekly newspaper, in which are a serial story, poetry, and many profound and
moral reflections. The men play cards and backgammon, read, write, smoke, and tell marvellous
stories, commencing, "It wasn't fairly day, and we were hardly wide enough awake to tell a
tree-stump from a gray coat,"--or, "When we saw them coming, we first formed in square, corner
towards them you know, and waited till they were close on us, and then, Sir, we opened and
gave them our cannon, grape-shot, right slap into them,"--or good-humoredly rally each other,
as in the case of that unlucky regiment perfectly cut up in its first battle, and known as
"six-weeks' soldiers and six-months' hospital-men."

But these are mere surface-facts. Hospital-life is woven in a different pattern from our own,
the shades deeper, the gold brighter, and we find in it very much of heroism in plain colors,
and self-sacrifice of rough texture.

One poor fellow, yet dim-eyed and faint from long battling for his ebbing life, will motion
away the offered delicacy, pointing to some other bed:--"Give it to him; he needs it more than
I"; or sometimes, if money is offered, "I have just been paid off; let that man have it; he
has nothing." Then some of the convalescents furnish our best and tenderest nurses. A soldier
was brought from Richmond badly wounded in the leg. While in the prison his wounds had received
no attention, and he was in such enfeebled condition, that, when amputation became inevitable,
it was feared he would die of the operation. Hardly breathing, made over apparently unto death,
one of these soldier-nurses took him in charge, for five days and nights kept close by his
bed, scarcely leaving him an instant, watching his faltering, flickering breath, as his mother
might have done, wresting him by force of vigilance and tenderest care from the very clutch
of the Destroyer, rejoicing over his recovery as for that of a dear and only brother. Another,
likewise brought from Richmond, won the pity of a lady, a chance visitor. She came to him every
day, a distance of five miles, washed his wounds, dressed them, nursed him back into the confines
of life, obtained for him a furlough, took him to her own house to complete the cure, and sent
him back to his regiment--well.

Over a third, a ruddy-faced New-England boy hardly yet into manhood, hung the shadow of death,
and quivering lips and swimming eyes--for they come, there, to love our poor boys most tenderly--had
spoken his death-warrant. He was silent a moment. Even a brave soul stops and catches breath,
at the unexpected nearness of the Great Revelation; then he asked to be baptized,--"because
his mother was a Christian, and he had promised her, if he died, and not on battle-field, to
have this rite performed, that she might know that he shared this Holy Faith with her, and
was not forgetful of her wishes"; and so he was baptized, and died.

There are cheerier phases. Side by side lay a New-Yorker, a Pennsylvanian, and a Scotch boy,
all terribly wounded. By the by, it is a curious fact that there are few sabre-wounds, and
almost literally none from the bayonet; the work of destruction being, in almost all cases,
that of the rending Minié ball. The fathers of the New-Yorker and Pennsylvanian had just visited
them, and they were chatting cheerily of their homes. The Scotch boy, who had lost a leg, looked
up, brightly smiling also.

"My mother will be here on Wednesday, from Scotland. When she knew that I had enlisted, she
sent me word that I had done well to take up arms for a country that had been so good to me;
and when she heard that I was wounded, she wrote that she should take the next steamer for
the United States."

And, as might have been expected from such a woman, on Wednesday she was by his bedside, redeeming
her word to the very day.

Sometimes the men grumble a little. One poor fellow, with a bullet through his lungs, took
high and strong ground against the meat:--"Oh! God love ye! how could a body eat it, swimming
in fat? but the eggs, they was beautiful; and the toast is good; ye'll send me some of that
for me supper?" But as a rule they are cheery and contented, grow strongly attached to their
nurses and the visitors, and, when back in camp, write letters of fond remembrance to their
hospital-homes.

No one has ever suspected ledgers of a latent angelic principle,--and yet, if unpaid benevolence,
consolation poured on wounded hearts, hope given to despair, and help to poverty and misery,
have in them anything heavenly, then have our soldiers a guardian angel in the Hospital Directory.
There has been a battle, and three or four days of maddening suspense, and then the cold, hopeless
newspaper-list; and your son, mother, who played about your knee only a little time ago, and
went out in his youthful pride to battle, is there, wounded,--or your lover, girl, who has
taught you the deeper meaning of a woman's life,--or your husband, sad woman, whose children
stand at your knee scared by your tears.

"The regiment stood like a rock against the enemy's furious onset, and its blood-stained colors
are forever glorious"; but it went out nine hundred strong, and it comes back with two hundred,
and what do you care now for laurel-wreaths? He is not with them. There are railroads,--you
can near the battle-field, but you cannot reach it; you can inquire, but the officers must
care for the living,--"let the dead bury their dead"; and while you are frantically asking
and searching, he is dying, suffering, calling for you; and then you find that the Hospital
Directory has trace of him, and the kindly, patient members of the Sanitary Commission are
ready with time, and money, if needed, to put you on it; and if ever you have had that horror
of uncertainty strong upon you, you will not think that I have strained the language, when
I call this most pitiful and Christian charity a guardian angel. Hear the inquiries:--"By the
love you bear your own mother, tell me where my boy is! only give me some tidings!" "I pray
you, tell me of these two nephews for whom I am seeking: I have had fourteen nephews in the
service, and these two are the only ones left." Words like these put soul and meaning into
the following statistics, given by Mr. Brown, Superintendent of the Hospital Directory at Washington.

"The Washington Bureau of the Hospital Directory of the United States Sanitary Commission was
opened to the public on the twenty-seventh of November, 1862. In the month of December following
I was ordered to Louisville, Ky., to organize a Directory Bureau for the Western Department
of the Sanitary Commission, and in January ended my labor in that department. Returning to
Washington, and thence proceeding to Philadelphia and New York upon the same duty performed
at the West, I completed the entire organization of the four bureaus by the fifth of March,
1863. Since the first of June, at these several bureaus, the returns from every United States
General Hospital of the army, 233 in number, have been regularly received.

"The total number of names on record is 513,437. The total number of inquiries for information
has been 12,884, and the number of successful answers rendered 9,203, being seventy-two per
cent. on the number received. The remaining twenty-eight per cent., of whom no information
could be obtained, are of those who perished in the Peninsula campaign, before Fredericksburg,
Gettysburg, etc."

In the Sanitary Commission, mentioned here, our soldiers have yet another friend, for whom
even our copious Anglo-Saxon can find no word of description at once strong, wise, tender,
and far-reaching; but perhaps a simple story, taken from the Sanitary Commission Bulletin,
will speak more clearly, and better to the heart, than pages of dry records.

"Away up in the fourth story of Hospital No. 3, and in a far corner of the ward, was seen,
one day, an old lady sitting by the side of a mere lad, who was reduced to the verge of death
by chronic diarrhoea. She was a plain, honest-hearted farmer's wife, her face all aglow with
motherly love, and who, to judge from appearances, had likely never before travelled beyond
the limits of her neighborhood, but now had come many a long mile to do what might be done
for her boy. In the course of a conversation she informed her questioner, that, 'if she could
only get something that tasted like home,--some good tea, for instance, which she could make
herself, and which would be better than that of the hospital,--she thought it might save her
son's life.' Of course it was sent to her, and on a subsequent visit she expressed her thanks
in a simple, hearty way, quite in keeping with her appearance. Still she seemed sad; something
was on her mind that evidently troubled her, and, like Banquo's ghost, 'would not down.' At
length it came out in a confiding, innocent way,--more, evidently, because it was uppermost
in her thoughts than for the purpose of receiving sympathy,--that her means were about exhausted.
'I didn't think that it would take so much money; it is so much farther away from home than
I had thought, and board here is so very high, that I have hardly enough left to take me back;
and by another week I will have to leave him. I have been around to the stores to buy some
little things that he would eat,--for he can't eat this strong food,--but the prices are so
high that I can't buy them, and I am afraid, that, if I go away, and if he doesn't get something
different to eat, that maybe,' and the tears trickled down her cheeks, 'he won't--be so well.'

"Her listener thought that difficulty might be overcome, and, if she would put on her bonnet,
they would go to a store where articles were cheap. Accordingly they arrived in front of the
large three-story building which Government has assigned to the Commission, and the old lady
was soon running her eyes over the long rows of boxes, bales, and barrels that stretched for
a hundred feet down the room, but was most fascinated by the bottles and cans on the shelves.
He ordered a supply of sugar, tea, soft crackers, and canned fruit, then chicken and oysters,
then jelly and wine, brandy, milk, and under-clothing, till the basket was full. As the earlier
articles nestled under its lids, her face was glowing with satisfaction; but as the later lots
arrived, she would draw him aside to whisper that 'it was too much,'--'really she hadn't enough
money'; and when the more expensive items came from the shelves, the shadow of earnestness
which gloomed her countenance grew into one of perplexity, her soul vibrating between motherly
yearning for the lad on his bed and the scant purse in her pocket, till, slowly, and with great
reluctance, she began to return the costliest.

"'Hadn't you better ask the price?' said her guide.

"'How much is it?'

"'Nothing,' replied the store-keeper.

"'Sir!' queried she, in the utmost amazement, 'nothing for all this?'

"'My good woman,' asked the guide, 'have you a Soldiers' Aid Society in your neighborhood?'

"Yes, they had; she belonged to it herself.

"'Well, what do you suppose becomes of the garments you make, and the fruit have you put up?'

"She hadn't thought,--she supposed they went to the army,--but was evidently bothered to know
what connection there could be between their Aid Society and that basket.

"'These garments that you see came from your society, or other societies just like yours; so
did these boxes and barrels; that milk came from New York; those fruits from Boston; that wine
was likely purchased with gold from California; and it is all for sick soldiers, your son as
much as for any one else. This is the United States Sanitary Commission storehouse; you must
come here whenever you wish, and call for everything you want; and you must stay with your
son until he is able to go home: never mind the money's giving out; you shall have more, which,
when you get back, you can refund for the use of other mothers and sons; when you are ready
to go, I will put him in a berth where he can lie down, and you shall save his life yet.'

"She did,--God bless her innocent, motherly heart!--when nothing but motherly care could have
achieved it; and when last seen, on a dismal, drizzly morning, was, with her face beaming out
the radiance of hope, making a cup of tea on the stove of a caboose-car for the convalescent,
who was snugly tucked away in the caboose-berth, waiting the final whistle of the locomotive
that would speed them both homeward."

But for many of our soldiers there is yet another phase in store,--that sad time when the clangor
and fierce joy and wild, exulting hurrah of the battle are over forever; and so, too, is over
tender hospital-nursing, and they are sent out by hundreds, cured of their wounds, but maimed,
the sources of life half drained, vigor gone, hope all spent, to limp through the blind alleys
and by-ways of life, dropped out of the remembrance of a country that has used and forgotten
them. They have given for her, not life, but all that makes life pleasant, hopeful, or even
possible. It seems to me, that, in common decency, if she has no laurels to spare, she should
at least give them in return--a daily dinner. Already, however, has the idea been set forth,
after a better fashion than I can hope to do,--in wood and stone, and by the aid of a charter.

In Philadelphia stands the first chartered "Home" for disabled soldiers, a cheery old house,
dating back to the occupation of the city by the British army in 1777-8, founded and supported
by private citizens, open to all, of whatever State, and fully looking its title, a "Home";
and as the want is more widely felt, and presses closer upon us, I cannot but think that everywhere
we shall find such "Homes," and as we grow graver, sadder, and wiser, under the hard teaching
of our war, and more awake to the thought that we have done with our splendid unclouded youth,
and must now take upon us the sterner responsibilities of our manhood, that a new spirit will
spring up among us,--the spirit of that woman who, with a bedridden mother, an ailing sister,
and a shop to tend, as their only means of support, yet finds time to visit our sick soldiers,
and carry to them the little that she can spare, and that which she has begged of her wealthier
neighbors,--the spirit of that poor seamstress who snatches an hour daily from her exhausting
toil to sew for the soldiers,--the spirit of that mechanic, who, having nothing to give, makes
boxes in his evening leisure, and sells them for the soldiers,--the spirit of the brooks, that
never hesitate between up-hill and down, because "all the rivers run into the sea, yet the
sea is never full,"--the spirit of all who do with love and zeal whatever their hands find
to do, and sigh, not because it is so little, but because it is not better.

God grant that this spirit may obtain among us,--that our soldiers, and their helpless families,
may be to us a national trust, for which we are bound individually, even the very humblest
and meanest of us, to care. The field is vast, and white for the harvest. Now, for the love
of Christ, in the name of honor, for very shame's sake, where we counted our laborers by tens,
let us number them by fifties,--where there were hundreds, let there be thousands.

WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY.

BY ONE WHO KNEW HIM.

The great master of English prose has left us suddenly, but to himself not unexpectedly. In
the maturity of his powers, with his enduring position in literature fairly won and recognized,
with the provision which spurred him to constant work secured to those he loved, his death
saddens us rather through the sense of our own loss than from the tragic regret which is associated
with an unaccomplished destiny. More fortunate than Fielding, he was allowed to take the measure
of his permanent fame. The niche wherein he shall henceforth stand was chiselled while he lived.
One by one the doubters confessed their reluctant faith, unfriendly critics dropped their blunted
steel, and no man dared to deny him the place which was his, and his only, by right of genius.

In one sense, however, he was misunderstood by the world, and he has died before that profounder
recognition which he craved had time to mature. All the breadth and certainty of his fame failed
to compensate him for the lack of this: the man's heart coveted that justice which was accorded
only to the author's brain. Other pens may sum up the literary record he has left behind: I
claim the right of a friend who knew and loved him to speak of him as a man. The testimony,
which, while living, he was too proud to have desired, may now be laid reverently upon his grave.

There is a delicacy to be observed in describing one's intercourse with a departed great man,
since death does not wholly remove that privacy which it is our duty to respect in life. Yet
the veil which we charitably drop upon weakness or dishonor may surely be lifted to disclose
the opposite qualities. I shall repeat no word of Thackeray's which he would have wished unsaid
or suppressed: I shall say no more than he would himself have said of a contemporary to whom
the world had not done full justice. During a friendship of nearly seven years, he permitted
me to see that one true side of an author's nature which is never so far revealed to the public
that the malignant may avail themselves of his candor to assail or the fools to annoy him.
He is now beyond the reach of malice, obtrusive sentiment, or vain curiosity; and the "late
remorse of love," which a better knowledge of the man may here and there provoke, can atone
for past wrong only by that considerate, tender judgment of the living of which he was an example.

I made Thackeray's acquaintance in New York towards the close of the year 1855. With the first
grasp of his broad hand, and the first look of his large, serious gray eyes, I received an
impression of the essential manliness of his nature,--of his honesty, his proud, almost defiant
candor, his ever-present, yet shrinking tenderness, and that sadness of the moral sentiment
which the world persisted in regarding as cynicism. This impression deepened with my further
acquaintance, and was never modified. Although he belonged to the sensitive, irritable genus,
his only manifestations of impatience which I remember were when that which he had written
with a sigh was interpreted as a sneer. When so misunderstood, he scorned to set himself right.
"I have no brain above the eyes," he was accustomed to say; "I describe what I see." He was
quick and unerring in detecting the weaknesses of his friends, and spoke of them with a tone
of disappointment sometimes bordering on exasperation; but he was equally severe upon his own
shortcomings. He allowed no friend to think him better than his own deliberate estimate made
him. I have never known a man whose nature was so immovably based on truth.

In a conversation upon the United States, shortly after we first met, he said,--

"There is one thing in this country which astonishes me. You have a capacity for culture which
contradicts all my experience. There are ----" (mentioning two or three names well known in
New York) "who I know have arisen from nothing, yet they are fit for any society in the world.
They would be just as self-possessed and entertaining in the presence of stars and garters
as they are here to-night. Now, in England, a man who has made his way up, as they have, doesn't
seem able to feel his social dignity. A little bit of the flunky sticks in him somewhere. I
am, perhaps, as independent in this respect as any one I know, yet I'm not entirely sure of
myself."

"Do you remember," I asked him, "what Goethe says of the boys in Venice? He explains their
cleverness, grace, and self-possession as children by the possibility of any one of them becoming
Doge."

