This hardy herbaceous perennial (see Fig. 61) came from Russia so long ago as 1596. It is a
well-known and favourite flower, and, of course, a very "old-fashioned" one; it is commonly
called the Scarlet Lychnis, but there are other forms of it with white flowers, both double
and single, and there is also a double scarlet variety. The typical form comes into flower
a fortnight earlier than the others, but all may be seen in bloom during July. The very brilliant
flowers, which are produced for several weeks in large showy heads, must commend this plant,
and its tall habit renders it all the more conspicuous. It ought to be grown in every collection
of hardy perennial flowers, amongst which bright scarlets are not too plentiful. In sandy loam,
enriched with well-rotted manure, it attains a height of 2ft. to 3ft. The flowers are ¾in.
across, the five petals open flat, and each petal is divided into two rounded segments; the
calyx is hairy, long, bellied, ribbed, five-cleft, and much narrowed at the divisions; the
numerous flowers are arranged in flat clusters, interspersed with many small leaves or bracteoles;
the stems are stout, round, and having hairs pointing downwards; the nodes or joints are distant
and furnished with a pair of stem-clasping, lance-shaped leaves, whence issue short stems that
flower later on. The leaves are 2in. to 4in. long, lance-shaped, hairy, waved at the edges,
and somewhat recurved. The whole plant is of a clammy character, after the manner of other
Catchflies.

As already hinted, this species, with its varieties, enjoys a sandy soil; a mulching of manure
proves of great benefit; not only are the heads of bloom larger for it, but the side shoots
are induced to flower freely. In borders of tall plants the scarlets are very showy; they cannot,
however, endure shade; the position should be sunny and open. The propagation of the single
forms may be carried out by seed, which ripens in large quantities; in fact, they sow themselves
freely. The double kinds should be divided in early spring. In a cut state the flowers are
both useful and effective, and if kept in a sunny window will continue in good form and open
the buds.

Flowering period, June to August.

Lychnis Viscaria Flore-pleno.

GERMAN CATCHFLY; Nat. Ord. SILENACEÆ.

The double form of the red German Catchfly. The old Latin name for the type was L. Angustifolia,
which is still used sometimes, being a good descriptive name. So much cannot be said of the
common name; at any rate, it sounds odd that one of our native plants should be called the
"German Catchfly," as name is evidently used in the geographical sense. There are several forms
of this species having double flowers, which may be termed florists' or garden varieties; all
are handsome and effective flowering plants, and last a long time in good form. A very short
description will suffice for these, the flowers of which in many respects resemble pinks; they
are, however, borne on stout stems in long heads, the petals being full, divided, and bent,
each flower an inch across. The rose-coloured varieties are bright and attractive; the leaves
are in tufts 3in. or 4in. long, narrow and reflexed. These double Catchflies are very showy
in either borders or rockwork; they rank with our neatest subjects and brightest flowers, and
certainly ought to be widely grown.

They enjoy a stiff soil, but are in no way particular; they should, however, have a sunny situation.
They may be increased by root divisions in summer or early spring.

Flowering period, June to August.

Lysimachia Clethroides.

CLETHRA-LIKE LOOSESTRIFE; Nat. Ord. PRIMULACEÆ.

