On the 18th, we finished the journey by a nine mile march to Bocking, and there settled down
into billets for the rest of our time in England. Though we were spoilt at Harpenden, we are
sure that all ranks have nothing but pleasant recollections of the time spent at Braintree
and Bocking, where one and all treated us with the greatest kindness, and we hope were sorry
to lose us. Where all were so kind it is almost invidious to mention names, but one feels (though
they themselves would be the first to deny it) that a special debt of gratitude is owed to
the Nuns of the Convent at Booking, whose kindness and care for those who were billeted at
the Convent, and for all with whom they came in contact, were beyond all praise.

In order to prepare for any possible German landing on the Essex coast orders had been issued
for a series of trenches to be dug to form defensive lines for the protection of London, and
we were at once set on to this work, which was pushed on as rapidly as possible, systems of
trenches, redoubts, gun positions, and other defensive works being put in hand. Our work was
mainly at Panfield, Marks Farm and Black Notley. It was not an ideal season for trench digging,
especially in the clay of Essex, which was the "genuine" article, and we were glad when the
bulk of it was finished by Christmas. This work was carried out under Royal Engineers' supervision
and was in some ways instructive, although we thought that the principles we had been taught
in the Military Manuals were frequently violated by the siting of trenches along the sides
of prominent hedgerows. Nevertheless, what we did was more after the nature of what we were
to meet in France, and therefore of considerable practical value. That our work was satisfactory
was testified to by the insertion in Central Force Orders of January 23rd, 1915, of the General
Officer Commanding-in-Chief's keen appreciation of the soldierly spirit and enthusiasm shewn
for the work by all ranks. All the same, we have no regrets that it was never necessary to
occupy the trenches for actual warfare.

Owing to another scare Christmas leave was cancelled. Scarborough had been bombarded on December
22nd, and there was apparently a bit of a "breeze." According to one writer this was due to
a little lack of liaison between our Naval and Military authorities. The former had apparently
spread a rumour that an invasion of the German Coast was to take place, and the enemy concentrated
numbers of troops there in case it happened. This concentration came to the knowledge of our
military spies, who, however were not told of the cause, and their report appears to have caused
our War Office to think that an invasion of England was contemplated. We were not, however,
by any means dull at Christmas. On December 24th, we beat the 6th Battalion 2--1 in the first
round of the Divisional Football competition, Vann being skipper, and in the evening the Warrant
Officers and N.C.O.'s had a dance at Braintree Corn Exchange. On Christmas Day there was Church
Parade at Braintree, when the Bishop of Derby preached. Later, dinners were issued on a sumptuous
scale, and in the evening the Officers were entertained at the White Hart by the Colonel and
Major Fowler.

In a later round of the Divisional Cup Competition, we beat the Divisional Mechanical Transport
Column 3--0, and got into the semi-final, when, however, we were badly beaten by the 4th Leicesters
at Bishop's Stortford, by 3 goals to nil. In a Brigade paper chase which was held on December
26th, Pvte. Allen of E Company came in first.

On December 28th, we returned to Luton by train to carry out final firing practices at the
Wardown and Galley Hill Ranges, and field firing practice at Dunstable in appalling weather,
when frost, snow and rain made accurate shooting perfectly impossible, and we were glad indeed
to get back to Bocking on January 6th, 1915.

The rest of our time was spent in final training, mainly carried out at Gosfield Park and Abbot's
Hall, and in preparations for going out, in which the inspection and completion of equipment
of all kinds played a prominent part. This was not too easy a job for the young Company or
Section Commanders, as the men by this time were up to all the "old soldier" tricks, and were
very clever at making one article appear almost simultaneously in half-a-dozen different kits.
Drill included a certain amount of new bayonet fighting and other exercises under Major A.
C. Clarke, who had attended a course at Chelsea. Mules arrived in January and were objects
of much interest; our miscellaneous transport vehicles were discarded and replaced by new ordnance
pattern issues, to which were added two Lune Valley Cookers, kindly presented by the ladies
of Nottinghamshire. At the end of January the Battalion had to be completely reorganised in
order to come into line with the regular Battalions: the old 8-Company system was abolished,
and the 1914 Double Company organisation introduced, entailing an immense amount of work and
keeping us busy right up to the time of our departure. The situation was not helped by the
absence of Major Fowler with eight Subalterns and 407 recruits, who were away carrying out
musketry classification practices at Luton from February 3rd to 20th.

Our chief relaxation at Bocking in the early part of 1915 was night searching for elusive spies,
who were supposed to carry on lamp signalling; more often than not when these were tracked
down they turned out to be innocent stable guards doing their nightly rounds. At other times
we picketed the roads to hold up motor cars which were supposed to be acting as guides to Zeppelins,
but it is doubtful whether either of these occupations did a great deal towards bringing about
the more rapid conclusion of the war.

One also remembers the excitement caused by the first Boche aeroplane dropping bombs within
a mile of the village, which we, of course, imagined had been dropped for our especial benefit.
One of the Scouts secured a "dud," which was the object of much interest to everyone, up to
the Divisional Commander.

It was about this time that the first distinguishing patches were allotted to Battalions. Our
first was a square green patch worn behind the cap badge, undoubtedly very smart, and the envy
of the other Battalions in the Brigade. When we got to France the Officers of the Battalion
had to wear two short vertical green stripes at the top of the back of the jacket, to enable
them to be picked out from behind, as all ranks were more or less similarly dressed and Officers'
swords were discarded. Later still these marks were worn by all ranks in the Battalion, and
the practice was continued up to the end of the war.

On February 15th, confidential orders were received that we were to proceed abroad at a very
early date. Final preparations were put in hand, equipment, stores and clothing were issued
to complete, and everything was made ready for a move.

On February 16th, Col. Huskinson received notice of his appointment as Commander of Base Details
on Lines of Communication with Capt. G. Clarke as his Adjutant. Col. Huskinson had been to
a great extent responsible for the recruiting of the Battalion to full strength before the
war, and his keenness and enthusiasm throughout the difficult times of reorganisation and training
during these first six months of the war, contributed largely to the high standard of morale
and general efficiency reached in England. One and all were sorry to lose him, but we were
glad indeed to find that Major Fowler was to succeed him in Command of the Battalion.

On February 19th, we had the honour of being inspected with the rest of the Division by H.M.
the King, at Hallingbury Place, near Bishop's Stortford.

Into the last few days was crowded an immense amount of work, for the final arrangements never
seemed to finish, and changes took place right up to the last. We were made up to establishment
in Officers by the arrival of Lieuts. G. S. Heathcote and F. B. Lawson, and 2nd Lieuts. C.
L. Hill and T. H. F. Adams, whilst large reinforcements from the 2/8th Battalion on February
22nd, brought us up to full strength, and when we left Bocking on February 25th, we were 31
Officers and 996 other ranks. Second Lieut. R. E. Hemingway was left behind with 100 men as
the First Reinforcement, and the Orderly Room was handed over to the care of Col.-Sergt. Instructor
F. Kieran. We left by two trains at 7.50 and 9.15 a.m., and by 4.0 p.m. had all detrained at
Southampton Docks.

On the whole the Battalion was well equipped, and physically everyone was fit. The chief drawback
appeared to be that we had rather a large percentage of young and inexperienced Officers and
N.C.O.'s, but as all had much to learn of the kind of warfare actually going on, this was no
great disadvantage. With so many late additions and the very recent reorganisation, few Commanders
had had the opportunity of getting to know their men. So far as training was concerned we had
covered in a way the whole of what the books had to say, and were fairly well acquainted with
ordinary methods of fighting. There was a tendency towards staleness at the moment, and it
is doubtful whether prolongation of our training in England would have been beneficial. We
felt somewhat ignorant of many practical points affecting trench warfare, into which the fighting
on most of the Western front had degenerated, and though we had received useful hints from
Major Hume, who had been out, we yet had a great deal to learn; this we did in France, in the
hard school of bitter experience. Whatever our shortcomings, we felt proud indeed to belong
to the first complete Territorial Division to embark for France.

At this time the personnel of Battalion and Company Headquarters were as follows:--

  Commanding Officer.--Lieut.-Colonel G. H. Fowler.
  Second-in-Command.--Major A. C. Clarke.
  Adjutant.--Capt. E. N. T. Collin.
  Medical Officer.--Surg.-Captain H. Stallard.
  Chaplain.--Rev. J. P. Hales.
  Quarter-Master.--Capt. R. F. B. Hodgkinson.
  Transport Officer.--Lieut. C. Davenport.
  Machine-Gun Officer.--Lieut. A. F. O. Dobson.
  A Company--(formerly E and F Companies).
             Capt. A. L. Ashwell; Lieuts. G. S.
             Heathcote, H. Kirby, and F. B. Lawson;
             2nd Lieuts. J. V. Edge, and E. M. Hacking;
             Comp. Sergt.-Major A. Mabbott; Comp.
             Quar.-Master Sergt. E. Haywood.
  B " (formerly B and H Companies).
             Capt. J. P. Becher; Capt. J. K. Lane;
             Lieut. J. W. Turner; 2nd Lieuts. W. H.
             Hollins, J. R. Eddison and B. W. Vann;
             Comp. Sergt.-Major W. Mounteney; Comp.
             Quar.-Master Sergt. S. C. L. Shelton.
  C " (formerly C and D Companies).
             Capt. M. C. Martyn; Capt. H. G. Wright;
             Lieuts. H. B. S. Handford and R. H.
             Piggford; 2nd Lieuts. A. Hacking and
             T. H. F. Adams; Comp. Sergt.-Major
             E. Hopkinson; Comp. Quar.-Master Sergt.
             J. R. Dench.
  D " (formerly A and G Companies).
             Capt. W. H. Allen; Lieuts. E. C. A. James
             and W. C. C. Weetman; 2nd Lieuts.
             J. M. Gray, C. L. Hill and J. S. C. Oates.
             Comp. Sergt-.Major F. Spencer; Comp.
             Quar.-Master Sergt. F. A. Pritchard.

  Acting Regimental Sergt.-Major.--E. A. Westerman.
  Regimental Quar.-Master Sergt.--D. Tomlin.
  Armourer Quar.-Master Sergt.--R. A. G. Loughman.
  Signalling Sergt.--W. Burton.
  Machine-Gun Sergt.--F. Parker.
  Transport Sergt.--C. Green.
  Sergt. Drummer.--W. Clewes.
  Provost Sergt.--G. Phillipson.
  Sergt.-Cook.--S. Wiffen.
  Pioneer Sergt.--J. Caddy.
  Acting Sergt.-Tailor.--H. A. Huckerby.
  Sergt.-Shoemaker.--G. H. Fletcher.
  Orderly Room Sergt.--F. Torrance.
  Orderly Room Sergt. (Base).--E. Kirkby.
  Orderly Room Clerk.--Corpl. R. Harvey.
  Non-Commissioned Officer i/c Stretcher Bearers.--Corpl. R. F. Bescoby.
  Medical Orderly.--Corpl. B. Sissons.

CHAPTER II

FRANCE

  February 25th, 1915.                June 20th, 1915.

As soon as the detrainment was completed, we proceeded on board the "Mount Temple," with certain
Royal Field Artillery Details, the ship being under the command of Major Kent, R.F.A. At 6.30
p.m. we dropped down to Netley, imagining we were off, instead of which we anchored there for
the night. The greater part of the next day, February 26th, was spent on board in physical
and other exercises and inspections. Late in the afternoon, much to our surprise, orders were
received that 21 Officers and 763 other ranks were to disembark, presumably because it was
not desirable for so many troops to cross on a slow going boat like the "Mount Temple." Having
left on board Major Clarke, Capt. Ashwell, and Lieut. Heathcote with two-and-a-half platoons
of A Company, and Capts. Hodgkinson and Davenport with the Signal, Transport and Machine-Gun
Sections, the remainder of us disembarked about 6.30 p.m., and proceeded to a Rest Camp about
three miles outside Southampton. It was very disappointing to be split up, but there was nothing
to be done but to make the best of it. We cannot say that our two days' stay at the Rest Camp
was exactly enjoyable, for the camp was uncomfortable, and no passes were allowed to the town.
We therefore fully appreciated the kindness of the ladies of the St. John Ambulance Association,
who had huts near the camp, and gave us most excellent meals.

On February 28th, a further contingent of 101 men under Captain Becher embarked on the "Caledonian,"
and later in the day the rest of us went on board a small Clyde pleasure steamer, the "King
Edward," where we were crowded beyond description. Neither party sailed, however, that day,
and we spent the night on board. The next day those on the "King Edward" had to disembark once
again! This took place early in the morning, and after a little wandering we ultimately obtained
billets for the Officers at the Central Hotel, and for the men at the Watt Memorial Hall.

In the end we embarked on the "King Edward" on the afternoon of March 2nd, and sailed the same
night. There was so much to interest everyone until we got out to sea that we had little time
in which to indulge sentimental feelings. That gliding down Southampton Water in silence broken
only by the throbbing of the engines, with lights out, sentries posted, and in some cases Machine-Guns
mounted, the sudden appearance out of the darkness from somewhere off the Isle of Wight of
a destroyer to pilot us across the Channel, the challenge to the ship as to who we were, and
the order to "carry on," the numberless rays of searchlights sweeping around on all sides--such
was the start of our great expedition, precisely the same, no doubt, as that of most other
troops who crossed during the war.

We had an excellent crossing and anchored off Havre early the following morning, disembarking
about 7.30 a.m. The morning was spent amongst the hangars at the docks, drawing sheep-skin
coats and other equipment. Here we were met by Major Clarke who reported that Capt. Ashwell
with two platoons had already proceeded up country, and that they had all had a very uncomfortable
time at Havre, sleeping in trucks or wherever they could. They had been joined by M. Lacolle,
who was to be attached to the Battalion as Interpreter. After dinner we marched down to our
entraining point, and were able to entrain more or less at leisure during the afternoon--our
first experience of a French Troop train. Later on we got accustomed to their ideas, but certainly
for the men, and often for Officers too, the French way is not quite in accordance with our
own ideas, and we must confess it went very much against the grain to have to crowd 36 to 40
men in nothing more or less than a cattle truck. "Hommes 40: Chevaux 8," may be all right for
the "Chevaux," but for the "Hommes" we consider a revised number is required.

During these first few hours spent at Havre we learnt to appreciate the Y.M.C.A. huts, which
supplied much excellent refreshment, and the Officers will certainly not forget the delicious
tea and cakes so generously provided by Mrs. Pitt.

We left for the North at 5.15 p.m. At Rouen a halt was made for the engine to take in water,
and ourselves coffee and rum. The taste of the latter was new to most of us, but we liked it
well enough to hope that we might make its acquaintance again. Early in the morning of March
4th, we had a short "halte repas" at Abbeville for breakfast, and continuing via Calais and
St. Omer we eventually, about 1 p.m., after a 20 hours journey, detrained at Cassel, which
if tradition does not lie, was the happy hunting ground of the good old Duke of York, who

  "Had ten thousand men,
  He marched 'em up to the top of the hill,
  And he marched 'em down again."

If the English Tommy of those days was anything like the modern "Old Bill" he probably had
something pointed to say about the Hill of Cassel, and was equally unappreciative of the magnificent
view one got from its summit!

Capt. Ashwell met us at the Station and acted as our guide to the little village of Oudezeele,
which we reached about 5 o'clock after a trying seven miles' march. The men were tired after
their long, cramped journey; many wore new boots, whilst all were weighed down with enormous
packs, which had been added to by the newly drawn sheep-skin coats. It was not surprising that
under such conditions many fell out, and that most of us were thoroughly weary by the time
we reached our destination. Ashwell and his party too, had not had a pleasant time. Strangers
in a strange land without Battalion, Brigade or Divisional Headquarters--or any of the other
luxuries which make life worth living--they had found existence rather precarious. Ashwell
himself had walked 45 miles in three days in search of rations, so that our arrival with the
transport was more than welcome.

We found our billets rather strange after the houses and cottages to which we had become accustomed
in England, as they consisted mostly of scattered farms, several platoons and sometimes a whole
Company or more being billeted at one farm, generally in barns.

Capt. Becher and his party arrived late the following day, having been kept three days on the
"Caledonian," and the Battalion was once more complete. As the rest of the Brigade had crossed
before us and had already gone up for trench instruction, we were temporarily attached to the
Lincoln and Leicester Brigade.

We spent a few days training at Oudezeele, including one or two route marches to get accustomed
to the pavé roads, and Edge, as newly appointed Sniping Officer, gave a little special instruction
in that branch of warfare. We had a visit from Major-General Stuart-Wortley, who discussed
the training to be carried out, and our coming duties in the trenches. The weather was very
cold, and a good deal of work was in the shape of lectures in billets, and the reading of various
routine and other orders issued to troops on arrival.

It was during one of our route marches in this district, which took us through the little village
of Wormhoudt, that we made our first acquaintance with French troops. Many of them were back
resting in billets, and the warm welcome they gave us as we passed through the narrow streets
of the village crowded with French "poilus," the whole Battalion whistling the "Marseillaise,"
was an experience which will not be readily forgotten.

On March 9th, we marched with the Lincoln and Leicester Brigade via Cassel, Caestre (where
General Smith-Dorrien saw us march past), and Strazeele to Merris, where we joined up with
the rest of our Brigade, back from their course of instruction in the trenches. Fortunately
the fur coats which had caused us so much trouble on the last march were now carried for us
by motor 'bus. At Merris we saw our first real signs of fighting, both the Church and the Hospice
having been hit several times by shells, whilst there were isolated graves of both French and
English scattered about the surrounding country. Here too, we saw our first "fighting" aeroplane
(armed with one short French Rifle), which had crashed just outside the village. It was also
at Merris that we had our first experience of paying a Company "in the Field." Instructions
on the subject had led us to believe that this was a complicated performance, but in practice
it turned out to be quite easy. Company "Imprests" were at a later date done away with and
a Battalion Imprest instituted, which was much more convenient, as also was the very handy
"Officer's Advance Book," which was introduced later. At first there seemed but little check
on the money that was drawn, and Field Cashiers appeared to issue money to all and sundry on
the flimsiest authority.

Preparations were being made about this time for a British offensive at Neuve Chapelle, and
our Brigade was attached temporarily to General Gough's 2nd Cavalry Division, with the object,
if the attack succeeded, of breaking through in the region of the Bois du Biez. In order to
be nearer the scene of operations we were moved from Merris at an hour's notice at noon on
March 10th, and marched via Rouge Croix to Bac-St. Maur. This was a memorable experience, but
later on we became accustomed to rapid movement, and the great concentration of troops which
was necessary when fighting was imminent. Transport marched brigaded, and in passing through
Sailly-sur-Lys in the darkness seemed to be so mixed up in the seething mass of men that we
almost began to doubt if they would ever extricate themselves. Under the guiding hand and voice
of Capt. Davenport, however, our Transport eventually got clear. During this operation "Davvy"
evidently made a great impression on one soldier (a Regular), by his forcible language, as
the latter was heard to remark "There's a bloke what knows 'is job." Confusion was great in
Bac-St. Maur too, for when we got there, the billets which we had been allotted were still
occupied by Canadians. Eventually, we all got shelter of a kind, in probably the dirtiest and
poorest billets we ever had either in France or Belgium. This was our first meeting with our
Canadian friends, and we can hardly say we were impressed, though we all knew well what they
were made of. We have specially vivid recollections of one Canadian sentry on duty at night
opposite D Company's billet, evidently "well away," loosing off his rifle at intervals, apparently
to let us know that he was "present and correct." One bullet was close enough to be unpleasant,
and fetched a lump off the tree just outside the window. In this area we were nearer to the
line than we had yet been, some of our guns firing from quite close to the village, and we
found it an interesting experience to see for the first time an aeroplane being shelled.

We stood by for two days, ready to move at a moment's notice, hearing much of the noise of
the battle. The attack, however, was not successful and the Bois du Biez plan, therefore, fell
through. On March 13th, we got orders to move to fresh billets. We had to travel light as we
were still regarded as a "flying column." Much superfluous kit was left behind, to be sent
for later on, and the weird bundles left at the Estaminet at Bac-St. Maur will not readily
be forgotten. We marched that afternoon via Estaires to Neuf Berquin, where we had again to
be content with rather crowded, if somewhat more comfortable billets than we had left.

One or two changes in personnel had already taken place. Capt. Hodgkinson gave up the appointment
of Quar.-Master owing to some technicalities, and for the moment acted as Censor. In this capacity
he was obliged, to our great annoyance, to carry out the order to relieve us of our cameras,
which were sent home,--no doubt on the whole a wise and necessary precaution. Capt. Hodgkinson
was succeeded as Quar.-Master by Lieut. Torrance, who was destined, with a short break in 1918,
to carry out the duties up to the end of the war. He performed them with much success, and
in a way that only Torrance could. On his appointment as Quar. Master, the Orderly Room came
under the charge of Corpl. R. Harvey, who carried out his difficult task with the utmost devotion,
without a break until the last man of the Battalion was demobilised. Second Lieut. G. W. Fosbery,
who received his Commission as we were about to cross to France, took over his platoon from
Handford, who as Signalling Officer had enough other work to keep him busy.

We stayed at Neuf Berquin for ten days and did a considerable amount of useful training, but
unfortunately at this time many men were sick, owing to the bad water, so that parades were
somewhat small. In addition to continued route marches to keep feet in condition we practised
formations for advancing through woods in the Bois d'Aval, open warfare attack under the watchful
eye of General Gough, and several trench-to-trench attacks on the leap-frog principle, the
first line capturing and holding the front trench, and other lines passing through them to
attack the support trenches. We also began to practise making and throwing the old "jam-tin
bomb," the beginning of the attack of "bomb fever," which unfortunately was to play such a
prominent part in the warfare of the next two or three years, undoubtedly to the detriment
of all sound training and tactics.

Arrangements had meanwhile been made for our initiation into the mysteries of real trench warfare,
and with that object in view we were moved on March 24th, to Vieux Berquin, and on the 26th,
across the frontier to Romarin in Belgium, being once more attached to the Lincoln and Leicester
Brigade. Much to our regret the rum issue was stopped the next day!

We were attached for instruction to the 10th Infantry Brigade, 4th Division, and the programme
arranged allowed each Company to spend two nights in the trenches, with a break of 24 hours
in billets. The Battalions to which we were attached included the Royal Irish Rifles, 2nd Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, 2nd Seaforth Highlanders, and 2nd Royal
Warwicks, who held the trenches about Ploegsteert and opposite Messines.

The first night each Officer and man studied the work of his counterpart in the Battalion to
which he was attached, and the second night platoons were allotted definite lengths of trench,
for which they were held responsible. This first experience was not exactly full of incident,
as on the whole we had a very quiet time, but for us, as for all others on their first visit
to the line, many little incidents of everyday trench routine were novel and exciting. Recollection
lingers on the long, slow tramp to the trenches, along corduroy tracks in thick darkness lighted
up from time to time by Very lights from our own trenches and by the infinitely superior ones
from the enemy (we recollect that some of us, faithful to our instructions, but slightly misguided,
began ducking quite five miles behind the line when a flare went up), the constant order to
keep closed up, the whizz of bullets, at every one of which we ducked instantly, the cracking
of rifles, the 'dead cow' smell which afterwards became so painfully familiar, the arrival
at the trenches and the posting of sentries. Later the cautious creeping over the parapet to
look at the wire and at dawn stand-to, followed by the frizzling of bacon and the brewing of
tea (in these days each side had a more or less respectable breakfast, evidenced by the columns
of smoke that went up from the respective front line trenches directly after stand-down). Such
incidents we feel sure were sufficiently novel at the time to impress themselves vividly on
the memories of those whom a kindly fate has preserved to read these recollections.

Probably the most uncanny feeling some of us had was, when on starting from Battalion Headquarters
for the trenches, we met a stretcher party carrying out one of our own men, Comp. Sergt.-Major
Hopkinson, who had been wounded by a sniper, and was our first casualty. It was an experience
that everyone had to go through, but it was not pleasant. Hopkinson and two men of D Company
wounded by shell fire were our only casualties during our instructional tours. That we did
not make a bad impression is attested by a letter written from an Officer of the 2nd Seaforths,
who says:--"I thought your Officers and men most awfully keen, and I was immensely struck by
the way your men came into the trench--no noise at all, and perfect discipline and quietness
and keenness. They were awfully willing to act up to any small suggestions you made as to what
they ought to do. They came in so much better than Regulars, and I was genuinely filled with
admiration for them. They were a splendid body of men." It is, perhaps, needless to say that
we on our part much appreciated the great kindness shewn us by the units to which we were attached.
Those of us who happened to be in or near Petit Douvre Farm during this attachment were much
interested in finding some of the early drawings of Bairnsfather, as done for the "Bystander."
The interior walls of the farm were covered with his charcoal sketches, in some cases to the
order of Commanding Officers who were to follow! It was at the same farm that Pvte. Cottam,
of D Company, acted as head butcher in the slaughter of an abandoned pig, causing a good deal
of excitement before final despatch. Most of the men brought away with them "souveneers" of
this first visit, none more unaccountable than the dud 77 mm. shell carried about in his pack
for several days, by a sturdy sanitary man of A Company--in fact, until discovered by a rather
alarmed Company Commander.

On March 31st, we left Romarin, and marched back to our old billets at Vieux Berquin, being
met at Doulieu and escorted from there by the 6th Battalion band. Only one band had been allowed
to come out with the Brigade, and after some discussion that of the 6th Battalion was selected,
and carried on up to the end of the war, virtually as a Brigade Band.

Orders were received on April 1st, for our Division to take over its first portion of the British
front in relief of the 28th Division, and on April 2nd we marched with the rest of the Brigade
via Bailleul to Locre, in Belgium. As few, if any of us, had ever studied Flemish, the language
question in some of the villages of Flanders presented a little difficulty, but with his guiding
principle of "tout-de-suite, and the touter the sweeter," the British Tommy never seemed to
have any trouble in getting what he wanted. We were disposed to think sometimes that the Belgians
did not look very kindly on us. Perhaps it was because in our early days we were rather inclined
to take too much notice of the frequent reports we heard of supposed Belgian spies, and of
Belgians being in communication by various means with the Boche on the other side of the lines.
One well remembers the suggestion made from time to time that signalling was carried on by
means of the windmill on Mont Rouge, or by the display of washing laid out to dry on the ground
by Belgian housewives. At any rate we did find a house at Locre, where a number of pigeons
were kept, a fact which aroused the suspicions of some of the Officers of D Company, and in
the same house were discovered quantities of British stores of all kinds, which must have been
got from our troops in a not too straightforward manner. Some of the inhabitants, too, treated
us with scant courtesy. It was here that the lady of the establishment removed the handle from
the pump where Sergt. Markham's platoon was billeted, and not content with that went a step
further, and for some reason best known to herself, gave him a cold douche when asleep one
night. Some of us, on the other hand, were more fortunate in our billets, and all who went
to the Hospice can have nothing but the most pleasant recollections of the great kindness of
the Mother Superior and other ladies. Padre Hales, who left us to be attached to Brigade Headquarters,
when we crossed to France, was billeted there with our Field Ambulance, and we were allowed
to go there for baths when out of the line, and always received much kindness and hospitality.
Unfortunately during the German onslaught in 1918, this delightful place was completely destroyed.
The bathing arrangements in general at this time were somewhat poor, the nearest military baths
being at Bailleul, about four miles away, so that we were very delighted at receiving during
our stay at Locre, from Miss Gilstrap, of Winthorpe, Newark, three galvanised iron baths, with
boiler complete. With these and other local devices we were able to get the men bathed at their
own billets, which was a great boon. Another similar consignment from Mrs. John Becher, unfortunately
got lost in the post, but we trust was of benefit to some other unit.

In the afternoon of Easter Eve, April 3rd, we attended a Church Parade, taken by the Bishop
of London, of which many of us have bitter recollections, as owing to a mistake in Divisional
Orders, we were rigged out in full marching order. Further, as it was a damp and windy day,
few of us could hear a word of the address, and all wanted to get as much sleep as possible
in view of the great adventure before us. The same night, which turned out to be miserably
wet, we left Locre, to take over the trench sector in front of Kemmel held by the 1st Devons.
Company Commanders had already been in the trenches for 24 hours to get the lie of the land,
and they, together with the guides of the Devons, met us at the appointed rendezvous, the celebrated
band stand at Kemmel. There were, of course, no lights; rations and trench fuel, which had
been taken up by the Transport, were issued in sandbags, and water in petrol tins, and each
platoon was then led off by itself. When one looks back on trench reliefs, one is inclined
to wonder how on some occasions they were carried out at all, the possibilities of going wrong
seemed so great. In the present case, however, nothing untoward happened, and we set off by
our various routes to the front line, passing such favourite spots as the "Sahara Desert" (the
final resting place of every bullet fired within a radius of five miles, or so it seemed),
the "Willows," "Irish Farm" or "The Orchard," and into the G and H trenches. In our heavy greatcoats
and with full packs, which we continued religiously to carry for many months for no apparent
reason, the journey was not pleasant, and we were not sorry to get into the trenches, where
the relief was completed about 11 p.m. C Company being mainly composed of miners and under
the command of a Mining Engineer, were put in the right sector where was our only mine, much
to the relief of, at least, one Company Commander, who had mental visions of a mine as a large
black cavern, where hand-to-hand fighting went on incessantly! A Company had the centre and
D Company the left, B Company occupying the two supporting points and billets in Kemmel Village.
Battalion Headquarters were at the Doctor's house in Kemmel, and the Transport and Quar.-Master's
Stores remained at Locre.

There was practically only one trench line at this time, and this, like most of the trenches
in Belgium and the low lying districts, was a line of breastworks with very little wire in
front, and only one or two small supporting points. The opposing front lines varied from 25
to about 300 yards apart, being closest at "Peckham Corner," on the right. Shelters were built
mostly of timber and corrugated iron, strengthened with sandbags, and were generally in the
parados of the trench.

Easter day--our first day holding a bit of line on our own--was fairly quiet, except for a
little shelling of D Company on the left during the afternoon. On the right, some men of C
Company sang hymns, and the enemy made overtures for a truce by showing a white flag. About
40 of them appeared on the parapet, and a brisk conversation ensued for several minutes across
"No Man's Land." A somewhat unflattering remark from one of the enemy who had a wonderful knowledge
of forcible English, ended the armistice rather hurriedly.

On most nights during these early days of the war, each side had its turn at five or ten rounds
"rapid" to relieve the monotony of things. In this we were on equal terms with the enemy, but
during the day we were hopelessly outclassed owing to the great shortage of periscopes, and
the lack of telescopic rifles and well constructed loophole plates, of all of which the Hun
seemed to have an abundant supply. It was long before we got anything like adequate numbers
of these very necessary trench requisites. It was not surprising, therefore, that for some
time the Boche snipers had the upper hand and could do almost what they liked. Their shooting
was extremely accurate, and as the trenches were enfiladed on all sides, and there was in many
cases little parados, we soon had casualties, most of which were sentries shot through the
head. Our first fatal casualty was Pvte. Hyde, of A Company, shot in this way on April 6th.
We were also short and entirely inexperienced in the use of rifle grenades and trench mortars,
with which the enemy made very good practice. A large trench mortar certainly did find its
way up to the trenches by some means one day, and provided considerable amusement to our men.
It is reported to have dropped its first bomb into the enemy trench, and its second into our
own--its erratic behaviour ultimately making it no doubt more annoying to ourselves than to
the enemy. Lieuts. A. Hacking and Hollins were the pioneers in the use of rifle grenades, with
which they eventually did good work at "Peckham Corner."

After a tour of four days which were most uncomfortable owing to constant rain, we returned
to Locre. The system of four days in trenches and four in billets, taking turns with the 6th
Battalion, continued for some time with little variation. When out of the line we, of course,
had to find those never-to-be-forgotten working parties, which had become part of the normal
trench warfare system. Having had a hard four days in the trenches, it was never a pleasant
duty to have to march up three or four miles on one or perhaps two nights out of our few days'
rest, to do a job for the Royal Engineers or some other specialists in the trenches. Otherwise,
our stays at Locre were fairly pleasant. There were no great attractions, but we had enough
to do as a rule in general training and cleaning, and the country round about was extremely
pleasant, either for walking or riding. Perhaps the greatest excitement was to go down to Bailleul
to shop and call on "Tina." Such luxuries as Canteens for supplying the wants of the inner
man were quite unknown in these early days, when we had to rely mainly on parcels from home
or purchases in the local towns.

Work in the trenches consisted mainly of strengthening or rebuilding the parapet and parados,
and in putting out barbed wire defences. As a rule, we wanted far more sandbags than were ever
forthcoming, but in these days they were used indiscriminately, and in consequence many very
weak structures were built, which could not possibly stand without support through a single
wet season. The barbed wire defences were very poor, and as soon as we got into the way of
doing it much time was spent in that not too pleasant work, for Boche snipers did execution
by night as well as by day, and made themselves very objectionable. Our entanglements consisted
mainly of "knife-rests"--wooden frames strung with barbed wire. These were made by the men
in the Brigade workshop at Kemmel, run by Major Wordsworth, the Staff Captain, to which each
Battalion contributed a quota of pioneers and trade specialists. One Officer learnt a very
practical lesson in their use from the enemy. He had some carefully placed in position one
night, where he thought his wire particularly weak, but his spirits fell to zero the following
morning, when on looking over the top he saw his precious knife-rests in position guarding
the Boche trenches opposite! From that time onwards knife-rests were securely fastened to each
other and to the ground. Our Brigade (hereafter known as the 139th Infantry Brigade) had a
good reputation for trench work, and the digging element was used to great advantage by the
6th Battalion commencing what was one of the first long communication trenches dug on the British
front. It extended from the front line nearly back to Kemmel and was for ever known as the
"Via Gellia." In its later stages it was worked on by ourselves. This trench was a great convenience,
as it enabled reliefs to be carried out much more securely by avoiding going over the open,
and permitted of visits of inspection to be made by daylight, and the wounded to be carried
back to the dressing station at Kemmel. In the early days they remained in the trenches until
it was dark enough for the journey to be made over the top.

On April 22nd, we experienced a little of the backwash of the first Hun gas attack against
the French and Canadians in the Ypres Salient a few miles North of us. During most of the time
we had been in this area there had been considerable activity in that quarter, and the shelling
and burning of Ypres could be plainly seen from the Kemmel trenches. This attack was the beginning
of the second battle of Ypres. The only effect on ourselves of the gas used on this occasion,
was to make our eyes smart and a few men sick. It did, however, cause a commotion on all sides,
and with unaccustomed speed, the first consignment of respirators was sent out to us--pieces
of gauze which had to be filled with tea-leaves, damped, and fastened round the mouth in the
event of attack. These were improved from time to time, and a little later we got a gas-proof
smoke helmet--the earliest form known as "P," and the later as "P.H." Vermorel sprayers were
also provided in due course, and some solution for spraying the trenches to clear them of gas.
Bells and gongs formed of shell cartridge cases or pieces of iron were also hung in the trenches
to be sounded by the sentry if any sign of cloud gas was seen. There was perhaps a natural
tendency to imagine gas when there was none, and an official report of gas by C Company on
the night of May 8th, was found to be due to the proximity of a dead cow.

April 24th witnessed our first serious bombardment. We had already had several somewhat severe
baptisms, but they were trifling in comparison. About 6 p.m., after an exceptionally quiet
day, and just before we were to be relieved, the enemy began an organised trench mortar bombardment
of G1 and 2, occupied by platoons of C and D Companies, and H 4 held by Lieut. Vann and his
platoon of B Company. It lasted for about an hour, and made large breaches in the parapet of
G1 and 2, and practically demolished the whole of H 4, a small isolated trench on the extreme
left, opposite Petit Bois. Both these trenches were completely enfiladed by the Boche, so that
their shooting was extremely accurate. It was thought at one time that the enemy might attempt
a raid on G1 and 2, but this did not develop. A Machine Gun team consisting of L.-Corpl. Sharrock
and Pvtes. Hopewell and Davis, which was posted in G1, behaved most coolly, and Sergt. A. Phillipson,
of D Company, did very gallant work in the same trench under heavy fire with Pvtes. Coombes
and Durand, all in a more or less dazed condition, helping to dig out the wounded. On the left
Vann and his platoon had a very bad time. Whilst he was digging out wounded a bomb fell close
by, killing four and burying three others, and blowing Vann himself several yards across the
open at the back of the trench, and practically wiping out the garrison. Major Becher brought
up reinforcements and helped Vann to get the position made good, and great assistance was given
by 2nd Lieut. Hollins and L.-Corpl. Humberstone. Pvtes. F. Boothby and A. Gleaden of B Company
also did excellent work, helping to dig out and dress the wounded, most of the time in full
view of the enemy, not more than 70 yards away. The 2nd Royal Scots on our immediate left,
also gave us valuable assistance. Our total casualties during the hour's bombardment were 14
men killed and two Officers (Vann and Gray), and 14 men wounded. When we were back at Locre
after this tour, General Shipley spoke to the Battalion on parade and thanked them for the
good work done, especially congratulating Vann, and on the following day the General Officer
Commanding our Division also congratulated the Battalion on its behaviour under fire.

Several changes took place during April, owing to casualties. Capt. Allen went down sick on
April 6th, and Lieut. James took over the command of D Company until the 14th, when Capt. Hodgkinson
was appointed. He, however, also had a short stay there, for on April 22nd, when in an excess
of zeal to see what was going on opposite G1, where some suspicious work was reported, he apparently
thought he could sufficiently camouflage himself behind a pair of field glasses to gaze over
the top of the parapet, the almost immediate result was a bullet which just grazed his head,
and he, too, had to leave us. D Company then came under Capt. Lane. Second Lieut. Eddison,
our first fatal Officer casualty, was killed on April 21st, being hit by a bullet whilst out
wiring, and though help was instantly rendered by Drummers Newton and Robb, who pulled him
out of the shell-hole of water, into which he had fallen, and carried him into the trench,
he died in a few minutes. Four Officers were down for a short time with measles, including
Capt. Martyn, who unfortunately was invalided to England, and was succeeded in command of C
Company, by Capt. H. G. Wright. Martyn served later in Ireland and France, as Second-in-Command
of the 2/8th Battalion and in command of the 2/7th Battalion, and won the D.S.O. and M.C. Lieut.
Lawson got a shell wound in the shoulder and had to leave, and 2nd Lieuts. Gray and Vann also
had to be in hospital for a short time from what was later known as "shell-shock." A great
loss, too, was Sergt. Wilmore, a very gallant soldier, who was sniped one day when outside
his trench.

May found us beginning to feel our feet. The Commanding Officer had talks with Officers as
to a more aggressive attitude being taken up; we had a lecture from Major Howard, R.E., at
Kemmel as to the construction of an invisible loophole, low down in the parapet, and so built
as to afford a good field of fire and permit of our replying better to the Hun snipers. Sergt.-Drummer
Clewes also got into action with his telescopic rifle from sniping posts cunningly placed behind
the front line, the only possible position from which really successful sniping could be done,
and was not long in getting quite a good "bag." Shortly afterwards he was put in charge of
the newly-formed Brigade Sniping Section. A trench mortar was actually got into use, and did
a certain amount of damage to the Boche trenches, but naturally produced considerable retaliation.
Further efforts to fire rifle grenades met with some success, whilst a "Gamage" catapult introduced
to throw bombs provided, at any rate, a little amusement. In patrolling considerable progress
was made. Second Lieut. A. Hacking did some very daring work at "Peckham Corner," and near
Petit Bois; 2nd Lieut. Hollins and L.-Corpls. Heath and G. Gadd of B Company made splendid
reconnaissances of the enemy's wire; and 2nd Lieut. Edge, who was always to the fore in wiring,
no matter how bright the night, carried out a daring daylight reconnaissance, the first attempted
in the Battalion, getting nearly up to the German front line in company with Pvte. C. E. Bryan,
of A Company. Pvte. W. O'Brien, of the same Company, was another who knew no danger; in fact,
at night it was difficult to keep these two men in the trench at all. Daring patrols were also
carried out by 2nd Lieut. Vann, Sergt. Pickering and L.-Corpl. Humberstone. Perhaps the most
successful was a fighting patrol, which went out on the night of May 9-10th under 2nd Lieut.
Oates, with the object of rounding up a Hun patrol. Oates, who had a party of six men with
him, went forward with Pvte. Nicholson, leaving the remainder behind, to within about 50 yards
of the German wire. On their way back they ran into a Boche patrol. Oates promptly shot one
man, Nicholson bayoneted another, whilst two others who were wounded got away. Oates and his
party got back safely.

On May 14th, we carried out one of those little manoeuvres which may have been of immense importance,
but appeared to us at the moment to be so much waste of time, trouble and energy. Instead of
proceeding to the trenches that night according to programme, we got sudden orders to "embus"
for Hill 60, in the Ypres Salient, to dig there under Royal Engineers' supervision for the
5th Division. The net result was that of the 600 who went, 400 dug for one-and-a-half hours,
and 200 for three-quarters-of-an-hour, after which the party returned to Locre in the 'buses.
The idea, doubtless, was a good one, as it was necessary to dig more trenches where part of
our line had given way during the recent fighting, but the organisation of the work seemed
to leave a good deal to be desired. It was the remnants of a Canadian Battalion returning from
this fighting in the Salient shortly after midnight on one occasion, whilst we were back at
Locre, which made us think we must have had more than an ordinary nightmare, for we awoke with
a start to hear the strains of a brass band coming along the pavé,--at 1 a.m. such a proceeding
seemed decidedly strange. It was not long, however, before we found that all was well, and
that it was our own Brigade Band playing the Canadians through the village. This was evidently
appreciated by them, for one of their number in a letter to the Daily Telegraph, after describing
the magic effect of the music on his men, concludes with the remark: "The Canadians will remember
how the band of the Sherwood Foresters played them through the darkness at midnight out of
'Bloody Ypres.'"

About the middle of May we began reliefs with the 7th Battalion, and our sector was extended
slightly left to include some of the J trenches opposite Petit Bois. An interesting entry in
the War Diary is that May 16th, the day following relief, was the first day absolutely free
from casualties since we took over our portion of the line. This, however, must have been an
exceptional day, for bad luck so far as casualties went pursued us with great regularity. Capt.
Lane was badly wounded on May 26th, when out wiring, and the command of D Company then passed
to Lieut. James. Capt. H. G. Wright, to the great regret of his friends in all ranks was killed
on June 6th, being shot, through the double loophole plate from which he was firing, and was
succeeded in command of C Company by Capt. G. S. Heathcote. Lieuts. Kirby and Weetman and 2nd
Lieut. Fosbery were wounded in May, and 2nd Lieut. Oates early in June, and all had to leave
the Battalion. Capt. Ashwell and 2nd Lieut. Edge were also slightly wounded. Our only reinforcement
Officers were 2nd Lieuts. N. L. Hindley and G. G. Elliott. Comp. Sergt.-Major Mabbott, of A
Company, was invalided to the Base, and was succeeded by Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt. Haywood,
Sergt. G. W. Godfrey being promoted Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt. in his place. Comp. Sergt.-Major
Mounteney, B Company, was invalided to England and Sergt. Chappell was appointed Comp. Sergt.-Major
of that Company. Sergt. J. A. Green was appointed Comp. Sergt.-Major of C Company in place
of Comp. Sergt.-Major Hopkinson wounded, and Sergt. T. Powell became Comp. Sergt.-Major of
D Company after Comp. Sergt.-Major Spencer left, also wounded. The latter obtained a Commission
some time later, only to be killed in France when doing excellent work in command of a Company
of another Battalion of the Regiment. A change had also taken place in the Brigade Staff, Major
E. M. Morris, the Brigade Major, who had worked so strenuously all through our period of training
in England, and done so much to help us in learning our job in France, having left on June
1st, to take command of the 2nd Royal Irish Rifles. He was succeeded by Major W. G. Neilson,
D.S.O., of the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders.

Early in June we moved still further left and took over more of the J and K trenches, with
the reserve company at Siege Farm, and Battalion Headquarters at Rossignol Farm. Our numbers
at this time were swelled by the presence of a Company of the 8th King's Royal Rifle Corps
who were attached for instruction--the first of Kitchener's Army that we had seen.

Our severest handling in the Kemmel area occurred on the last day of our last tour there, and
was begun by the blowing of enemy mines, a form of warfare which had already developed considerably
at various points along the battle front. Tunnelling Companies of the Royal Engineers had been
formed, but their numbers were not sufficient to cope with all the work, and in order to help
them Mining Sections were formed in some of the Infantry Brigades as well. From the miners
of the 139th Brigade, it was not difficult to select suitable men for this purpose, and towards
the end of May, a small party was taken from the Battalion to join the Brigade Mining Section,
which was put under the command of Capt. Piggford. Included in the party were Corpls. Boot
and Attenborough, both of whom later received decorations for gallantry in underground work.
These Brigade Sections were normally used for defensive mining only--broadly to prevent the
enemy blowing up our trenches. The Royal Engineers' Tunnelling Companies on the other hand,
were employed for offensive work in blowing up the enemy. Where mining was feared, sentries
in the front line had to report at once if any suspicious sounds were heard, which might indicate
that the enemy were mining in the neighbourhood, in order that protective measures might be
taken. The J trenches, which varied from 30 to 70 yards away from those of the Boche, were
mostly built on water-logged ground, where to sink shafts and drive galleries was not an easy
task. Nevertheless, for some time signs and sounds had been reported which seemed to indicate
that mining on the part of the enemy was going on in this very region. Attempts had, therefore,
been made by us to sink shafts and take counter measures, but these had proved unavailing owing
to the bad nature of the ground. The enemy, however, succeeded where we failed, and on June
15th, exploded three mines, one of which blew up a portion of J 3 Right. This took place at
9.10 p.m., when the 7th Battalion were just beginning to arrive to relieve us. At the same
time a terrific fire was opened with artillery, trench mortars, rifle grenades, Machine Guns
and rifles, and for over an hour an incessant cannonade was kept up on our front line, Support
Company and Battalion Dump. Telephone wires were broken--an occurrence looked on later with
less anxiety as it happened so often, and we had no S.O.S. signal; pigeon service, which had
been established in the trenches just before this time, was, of course, of no avail for night
work, and Battalion Headquarters were out of communication with the trenches except by runner.
Our reply to the bombardment was almost negligible, and whatever the politicians and their
statistics may prove, we know that our supply of gun ammunition at this time was totally inadequate.
Some of the enemy got into the mine crater, but were driven out by C Company at the point of
the bayonet. Pvte. J. Sharman, of B Company, who was practically the only man left in the trench
when the enemy tried to occupy it, shot one and drove off another, both of them having attacked
him at the same time. He was hit on the leg by a dud bomb, and got a bullet through his haversack.
Excellent work was also done by Corpl. Humberstone in reorganising the garrison, and by L.-Corpl.
Templeman and Pvte. Tongue in repairing telephone wires. Eventually things quietened down,
and when the relief was complete, we returned to Locre for a few days' well-earned rest. Our
casualties were unfortunately heavy, and included two excellent Officers, Eric Dobson and Humphrey
Hollins, also Corpl. Wilcox and eight men killed, and 29 wounded, whilst the 6th King's Own
Yorkshire Light Infantry, some of whom were in the trenches with us for instruction, also lost
several men.

This was one of the earliest raids that ever took place, and was planned doubtless to inflict
casualties and secure prisoners, but not to capture trenches. One man of D Company is reported
to have blamed this affair for the loss of a pair of boots, as he assured his Platoon Commander
at a kit inspection a little later "that they were lost when that there mine at Kemmel went
up!" As no man had more than one pair at a time the Platoon Commander scratched his head.

Thus ended our stay in the Kemmel sector, which was taken over by the 50th (Northumbrian) Division.
We were now beginning to feel quite "old hands," but our experience had been dearly bought.
We had lost heavily and were sadly in need of a draft, for to balance our total casualties
in other ranks of 49 killed or died of wounds, and 120 wounded, we had so far received only
20 reinforcements.

The Corps paid a tribute to the work performed by the Brigade during our stay at Kemmel. Far
more valuable, however, were our first experiences of trench warfare. The meaning and importance
of responsibility and discipline were for the first time really impressed upon the minds of
Officers and men alike. Gradually, if imperceptibly, they had learnt something of what would
be required of them in the times of fighting ahead.

Sometimes one is tempted to compare conditions at Kemmel with trench routine three years later.
In the Kemmel days the Platoon Commander lived with his Platoon, and seldom even visited his
Company Headquarters and he undoubtedly acquired an intimate knowledge of every man of his
Platoon, which was never equalled in later days. This further bred a sense of responsibility
and initiative which was all to the good at a time when comfort, safety and enterprise depended
so largely on individual initiative. At the same time it must not be forgotten that in later
days Officers and men alike were called upon to undertake more patrols and raids, and had to
suffer far heavier and more incessant shelling and trench-mortaring than was our general experience
at Kemmel.

As a school of instruction our time at Kemmel undoubtedly provided a very valuable lesson not
only to Officers, N.C.O.'s and men of the Battalion, but to Officers of the Brigade and Divisional
Staffs, whose experience of the new form of warfare could hardly have been learnt under better
conditions than those which obtained during our first two months of trench routine.

CHAPTER III

THE SALIENT

  June 20th, 1915.                    October 1st, 1915.

The Canadian's description of it as "Bloody Ypres," referring doubtless to the Salient in general,
was very apt, and will be endorsed by all who ever had the misfortune to sample it at any period
of the war. We have never met anyone who boasted of having found a "cushy spot" in it, and
so far as we ourselves were concerned, the three months spent in the Salient were very nearly,
if not quite, the hardest months of the war.

Leaving Locre on the evening of June 20th, we marched with the rest of the Brigade to the Ouderdom
Huts on the Reninghelst--Vlamertinghe Road. These were the first "huts" ever occupied by the
Battalion; they were absolutely exposed to view, the surroundings being open ploughed fields,
and when the Boche "Sausage" went up "Silent Percy," a German long-range gun, warned anyone
walking about that movement must cease. There were, however, deep shelter trenches round the
huts, which afforded good protection, and we escaped without casualties, though the Transport
having had a few shells in the horse lines, deemed it wise to move back a little. We left there
on June 23rd, and marching via Kruistraat and Zillebeke proceeded to "Sanctuary Wood," where
we relieved the 5th East Yorkshires in trenches 7 to 12. These trenches were good, being both
narrow and deep. There was a good deal of liveliness on both sides, and things were anything
but pleasant in the region of a wood. whose title was something of a misnomer. The Transport
too, had many good runs for their money when bringing up rations and stores. The congestion
on the road each night was intense. Only one bridge, "14," over the Ypres-Comines Canal was
available for the transport of all units occupying the centre of the Salient, and the journey
from the transport lines to the dump and back, took something approaching seven hours. We were
not particularly envious of their job here on many occasions, though never once did they fail
to get supplies up to the dump. This was at the South-West corner of "Sanctuary Wood," and
a very unhealthy spot, where we were lucky indeed in not getting very heavy casualties. There
was hardly any water fit for drinking in the front area, so that one of the water carts had
to be brought up full every night and left in the shelter of the wood, and the empty one taken
back.

Rain made the trenches very uncomfortable, and we had plenty to do in keeping them in order,
and in building shelters, of which we were very short. These consisted for the most part of
two or more waterproof sheets laced together, and held in position across the trench, by stones
placed on the ends on the parapet and parados. Little was done by us in the way of active operations
during our first tour, except a certain amount of patrolling, in which 2nd Lieut. Adams and
Pvte. Needham were the leading lights, and got some useful information. A Company had rather
a bad time, suffering over 20 casualties from "Whizz-bangs" (77 mm. shells) and salvoes of 5.9's.

We were relieved on the night of June 29/30th, after a seven days' tour, by the 5th Lincolns,
and moved back to bivouacs at a charming camp near Poperinghe, where we spent 12 of the most
enjoyable days we ever had in France. The weather was glorious, and we made the most of it.
We were spared strenuous work as far as possible on the very hot days, but carried out much
useful training of a general kind, and reorganised and refitted all the units in the Battalion.
Two new Officers, 2nd Lieuts. R. E. Hemingway, and E. S. Strachan joined us, the former eventually
succeeding Lieut. A. Hacking, who had just been appointed our first Battalion Grenade Officer.
A draft of 69 men also arrived, together with 11 rejoined men,--a most acceptable addition
to our numbers. Several quite interesting cricket matches were played, the last of which, Officers
v. N.C.O's., was won by the Officers. We managed one concert, which was given entirely by our
own artistes, and went off very successfully. Poperinghe was quite close, and though possessing
no great attraction, yet it was a change to walk or if possible get a horse for the afternoon
and ride over there sometimes to see what was going on, and call on our little friend "Ginger"
at the café, and do any shopping that was wanted. Here for the first time we encountered a
Divisional Troupe, and enjoyed many a pleasant evening with the 6th Division "Fancies," with
their Belgian artistes "Vaseline" and "Glycerine." But perhaps the greatest source of pleasure
to all ranks now, was that great institution "Leave" which had just been started. True it was
but four days, and for an extremely small number, but it was something after all, and encouraged
those who were not lucky enough to have it at the moment, that their turn would eventually
come to get out of the war for a brief space, and return to their families at home. Capt. Ashwell
left us whilst we were here to take charge of reinforcements at St. Omer. During his absence
of five or six weeks A Company was commanded by Lieut. J. V. Edge.

We left camp with much regret on the afternoon of July 11th, and proceeding via Kruistraat,
where a halt was made for tea, at the "White Château," we eventually took over trenches B 2,
3, 4, 7 and 8, in the Hooge sector, from the North Staffords. The trenches here were close
together, at some points not more than 25 yards apart. This nearness necessitated in some cases
the erection of small-mesh wire netting to prevent the enemy throwing hand-grenades into our
trenches. Mining was carried on unceasingly, and with both sides displaying abnormal activity
with every kind of war machine invented, life was not at all pleasant. Possibly we had the
greatest dislike for the rifle grenades which the Hun was in the habit of showering over on
every possible occasion, but his shelling of the whole of our sector, which he carried out
with great regularity, was extremely uncomfortable, and casualties mounted rapidly. To the
more normal means of trying to wear down the enemy, we were now able to add fixed rifles and
rifle batteries. These were laid on definite targets, and fired according to a time table specially
arranged, and we hope had the effect desired. Sergt.-Drummer Clewes too, in charge of the Brigade
Sniping Section, was always worrying the Huns on every possible occasion, and made some splendid
"bags." Work in the trenches was of a more or less normal kind, consisting chiefly of strengthening
fire and support trenches and putting out wire, not forgetting the never-ending efforts to
drain away the water. Good patrols were carried out by Lieut. James and Corpl. Hotson.

After a heavy tour of 12 days we were relieved on July 23rd, by the 7th Battalion, and marched
back to bivouacs near Ouderdom, a long trek, the last Company not getting there until 7 a.m.
the following morning. We were shelled out of this camp almost immediately, doubtless because
a Staff Officer anxious for the comfort of the Officers had had four beautiful white tents
put up. Unfortunately they had been pitched on the Eastern slope of the field in full view
of the "Sausage" already mentioned, and "Silent Percy" soon got busy! On July 25th, we took
over another field near Busseboom, where we were left in peace, so far as the Hun was concerned,
though as the field had just previously been used by Gunners for horse lines we had in other
ways quite a lively time. Here we were joined by 2nd Lieut. Everard Handford and an excellent
draft from the 2/8th Battalion.

We had little time during this six days' rest to do more than the usual refitting and cleaning,
as large fatigue parties were required on two days for Divisional work. Bathing was an easier
matter, as we were now able to use the new Divisional baths at "Pop." So far as the washing
of clothing was concerned, the men did their own, laundries being very few and far between.

We had now in front of us what turned out to be the longest and most trying of all the Battalion's
experiences in the trenches, for after relieving the 7th Battalion in trenches B 3, 4, 7, and
8 at "Sanctuary Wood" on the night of July 29/30th, we did not get out for 19 days.

Col. Fowler at this time was on leave, whilst Major A. C. Clarke was unfit, and a little later
had to return to England. Major Becher, who succeeded him as Second-in-Command was, therefore,
in temporary command of the Battalion. Much to our regret our old friend "Doc" Stallard had
also just left us for a tour of home duty. Well had he stuck it all through, but he was beginning
to feel the strain of his strenuous duties, which were now taken over by Surgeon-Lieut. C.
B. Johnstone. The latter had a memorable journey to join the Battalion, which was then in the
line, riding up on the front of the horse ambulance that used to go nightly to "Maple Copse"
to evacuate the previous twenty-four hours' wounded. The road was very rough and mostly shell
holes full of water, and he had a decidedly rough passage. Other arrivals about this time included
three new subalterns, Lieut. C. M. Houfton, and 2nd Lieuts. R. V. Harvey and A. H. Date, whose
first experience of trench warfare was to be rather more exciting than the average! Comp. Sergt.-Major
J. A. Green was temporarily acting as Regimental Sergt.-Major in place of Sergt.-Major Westerman,
who had just left for England.

The trench system taken over ran partly on the outskirts of "Sanctuary Wood," and partly through
the wood itself, which in those days was most picturesque, with delightful wild flowers and
thick undergrowth. The right was held by B Company (Lieut. J. W. Turner) and C Company (Capt.
G. S. Heathcote) and the left by D Company (Lieut. E. C. A. James), whilst A Company (Lieut.
J. V. Edge) were in reserve. By a very happy coincidence, we had with us A Company of the 10th
Sherwood Foresters, sent into the line for the first time for instruction. Capt. G. P. Goodall,
subsequently killed at St. Eloi, was in charge of this Company, amongst whom our men found
many friends.

We occupied the left of the 46th Divisional sector, with the 5th Battalion on our right, the
7th Battalion in immediate support in "Maple Copse," and the 6th Battalion in Brigade Reserve.

The 14th Division, which had only been in France a few weeks, and had been with us for instruction
at Kemmel, had recently taken over the sector on our left, where there had been much fighting
during the past few weeks for the possession of Hooge, which centred about the stables and
wall running near the Château. It was there that in our last tour we had seen a brilliant assault
by the Gordons and Middlesex, after a terrific mine explosion.

At 3.30 a.m. on July 30th, immediately after stand-down, and within a few hours of our arrival
in the trenches, on a perfect summer morning, the whole of the wood was suddenly surrounded
by a ring of fire, while at the same time a heavy bombardment was opened, concentrating apparently
on the trenches around "Hooge Crater." Under cover of this bombardment, and behind "flammenwerfer,"
the enemy attacked the point of the salient held by C Company, at the same time throwing the
greater weight of his forces against the Hooge sector occupied by units of the 14th Division.
The latter, who like ourselves had only come into the line the night before, were undoubtedly
surprised by the sudden attack, and by this first use of "flammenwerfer." Their men, dead tired,
had just got down to sleep, and the rapidity of the enemy attack left little opportunity for
organising successful defence.

The result was that the enemy succeeded at once in gaining the whole of the front and support
trenches on our left, pushing forward into the North end of the wood, and threatening to cut
off the whole of the salient, and leaving the trenches held by D Company in imminent danger
of being turned from the rear.

The first attack on the point of the salient was driven off by rifle and machine gun fire.
Here Pvte. Grantham displayed conspicuous gallantry in remaining at his post, in spite of being
surrounded by flames, and killing several of the enemy at close quarters. Very few of the enemy
succeeded in getting into our lines, though for a short space of time there was a dangerous
gap on the left of C Company, which was filled up by the presence of mind of 2nd Lieut. Hindley
and Sergts. Sheppard and Smith, and a platoon of B Company, one of whom, Pvte. Tyne, did particularly
fine execution by throwing back unexploded enemy bombs. This platoon lined the parapet, and
by opening rapid fire prevented the attack from developing. Unfortunately, an enemy machine
gun traversed the parapet, killing many of the men of this gallant platoon, until a bomb thrown
a prodigious distance by Sergt. G. F. Foster appears to have fallen on the top of it, evidently
knocking it out, and by the volume of smoke produced wrecking a "flammenwerfer." Several of
the enemy were seen to be killed or wounded by this lucky bomb.

Further attacks by the enemy on the point of the salient were made during the day, and a more
serious one early next morning, but they were readily driven off with loss. We should like
here to pay a tribute to the magnificent courage and coolness of the men of the 10th Battalion,
which contributed very largely to the entire defeat of the enemy's attack on this front.

Meanwhile the position on the left was uncertain and very alarming, and Sergt. A. Phillipson
in particular, in command of the left platoon, No. 13, had a most anxious and trying time.
Elements of the 14th Division straggled from the left with stories of the German advance. These
accounts might easily have demoralised our Battalion but for the magnificent example of Lieut.
James, his Second-in-Command, 2nd Lieut. Vann and Sergt. A. Phillipson, and the coolness and
courage of every man of D Company. The situation on this flank was serious indeed. All the
trenches on the left had been captured, and the enemy were reported as pushing into the wood
in the rear of our trenches. James acted promptly, and immediately pushed out a left flank-guard.
Major Becher at Headquarters sent forward reinforcements from the Reserve Company, and eventually
the 7th Battalion from "Maple Copse" were despatched by Brigade and did splendid work in spite
of heavy shelling, in digging a switch line connecting the trenches in the neighbourhood of
"Zouave Wood" to our left flank.

Early in the afternoon the Reserve Brigade of the 14th Division, who had only reached bivouacs
near Poperinghe at three in the morning, returned and made a gallant but fruitless counter-attack
to recover the lost trenches. Could it have been expected that men, who had been in the trenches
for a week, marched back during the night no less than 12 miles, only to turn once more, march
back those interminable 12 miles, part of the time under heavy shell fire, dog-tired, without
sleep or food, could without adequate artillery preparation perform a feat which later required
a Division of fresh troops, after one of the most carefully planned and destructive bombardments
at that time known? The Brigade could but have failed, and to the onlooker it seemed a tragic
blunder, but to those who have read the pathetic story of a tragic day, the title given by
"The Student in Arms" of "The Honour of the Brigade" alone provides the excuse for an operation
which from every other point of view, was one of the costly blunders of the war.

On August 9th, the 6th Division attacked after a very heavy bombardment and re-established
the situation. No troops could have done finer work. The enemy who had manned the redoubtable
"Hooge Crater" in great strength, suffered very heavily, but the total prisoners captured in
a hard fought attack amounted to five. The 2nd Sherwood Foresters, under that magnificent Officer
Col. Hobbs, who in pre-war days had at one time been Adjutant of our Battalion, eventually
endeavoured to hold the crater on our left, but this was soon found to be untenable, and remained
in No Man's Land.

An incident which is not without its humour, while illustrating the tiredness of our men, may
be worth recalling. During the bombardment preliminary to the counter-attack, when the noise
of our own artillery was deafening, and the proximity of the enemy shelling far from assuring,
a platoon commander discovered one of his men fast asleep on the firestep. With some difficulty
he was aroused and, rubbing his eyes, he exclaimed, not without a certain degree of indignation
that his slumbers had been cut short--"What's oop?"

Our casualties during the activities of July 30th and 31st, amounted to 21 killed and 40 wounded,
and the 10th Battalion had ten casualties in addition. This total was increased from day to
day by incessant shelling, trench mortars and rifle grenades, and by the unfortunate inaccuracy
of one of our 6-inch naval guns, which persisted in firing into our trenches until its identity
was eventually discovered. During the first fortnight in the line here, our casualties were
no fewer than four Officers wounded (Vann, E. M. Hacking, Hindley and G. G. Elliott); 36 other
ranks killed, or died of wounds, and 90 wounded. Included amongst the killed were Sergt. A.
Phillipson, who throughout had shewn the utmost coolness and gallantry, and Sergt. E. Layhe,
who had done very good work as Scout Sergeant. "Jimmy" James, who had struggled on manfully
in spite of being very unfit, eventually had to give up and go to hospital, D Company being
taken over by Vann.

During these days there was much active patrolling in order to make certain of the dispositions
of the enemy, and much daring work was carried out by Lieuts. Vann, Turner, and H. B. S. Handford,
2nd Lieuts. A. & E. M. Hacking, Corpl. Gadd, L.-Corpl. Wilson, and Pvtes. Nicholson and Thompson.
Vann in particular was much in the good books of General Allenby, the Corps Commander, for
his splendid work, though he was once the cause of his very nearly spoiling an immaculate pair
of breeches when showing him with much glee a particularly un-get-at-able loophole plate in
a very muddy trench. We are led to believe, however, that this crime was forgiven, as Vann
was later honoured by the General with an invitation to dinner.

Apart from shelling, which continued intermittently, the rest of our stay in the line was uneventful.
It was not, however, until August 17th, that the Battalion, reduced in numbers but tried at
last in real fighting, were relieved by the 7th Battalion, and marched back to bivouacs near
Ouderdom, dead tired but happy in the thought that they could hand over intact the trenches
which they had taken over three weeks before.

The attack had evidently not been an attempt to break through. The enemy no doubt had hoped
to seize our front line system from the right of B 4 trench northwards. There can be no doubt
that had this succeeded the difficulty of the counter-attack would have been largely increased.
Indeed, at a time when troops could ill have been spared, it is probable that the Ypres Salient
would have been considerably reduced, and the morale of the enemy proportionately increased.
This was pointed out by General Allenby, who, addressing the Battalion on parade on August
25th, said: "I have read with great pleasure and pride the report of the General commanding
your Division, telling of the arduous work which you recently did in the neighbourhood of Hooge.
By your boldness, tenacity, and gallantry, you did work of very great importance. Perhaps you
do not know that not only did your action have an important bearing on that particular bit
of line, but on the whole campaign, because of the political reason for holding the Salient.
The town of Ypres is nothing to us, but if the Boche took it they would publish it to the world
that they had captured the fortress of Ypres, which we have held since November, 1914."

The Battalion also received the special thanks of the Field Marshal Commanding-in-Chief on
their efforts during the tour. To the delight of everyone, especially all ranks of B Company,
John Becher was awarded the D.S.O., a very well-deserved honour for most splendid work whilst
in command of the Battalion, during one of the most anxious periods in its history; Vann for
his gallantry here and previously at Kemmel got the M.C. Mention must also be made of the splendid
work of our new Medical Officer (Johnstone), his assistants Corpls. Sissons, Martin, and Bescoby,
and all the stretcher-bearers, who worked indefatigably day and night, often in circumstances
of great personal risk in dressing and evacuating the wounded, not only of our own Battalion,
but of the King's Royal Rifle Corps, the Rifle Brigade, and the 2nd Sherwood Foresters. In
these operations they established a reputation for gallantry and devotion to duty which in
the whole Brigade was conspicuous throughout the war.

Our bivouacs were in a nice spot sheltered from view by a small wood. Our rest was not a long
one, and was much of the usual type, but had an additional interest in that we were fortunate
in getting two very good entertainments from the 46th Divisional Concert Party, the "Whizzbangs,"
which had lately been formed, and was to be a source of much pleasure from now on to the end
of the war. Whilst there we were joined by two new Officers, 2nd Lieuts. A. H. G. C. Moore
and P. C. Hemingway, and 107 other ranks, but we wanted men badly now, as in addition to our
heavy casualties in the line, we lost during the month of August 41 N.C.O's. and men, whose
term of enlistment expired on the completion of one year's war service. These included many
old hands who were difficult to replace.

On August 29th, we took over trenches at "Middlesex Wood," where the Brigade were holding the
line astride the Ypres-Comines Canal, near St. Eloi, and there we stayed, with one short rest
in bivouacs, for a month of more or less normal trench warfare. Perhaps the main points of
interest were that we were covered by Belgian gunners, who were not too particular where or
when they fired, that we were now getting a supply of sniperscopes (specially constructed rifles,
fitted with periscopes, for firing from a trench without looking directly over the parapet),
which formed most useful additions to our trench stores, and seemed to cause the enemy considerable
annoyance, and that we were able on one or two occasions to make good practice with Col. Fowler's
Elephant Gun against some of the enemy's loophole plates. On September 25th, in conjunction
with attacks by the French and British, on various other parts of the Western front, we had
to "demonstrate" by means of artillery, machine gun and rifle fire, and a dummy gas and smoke
attack, which was to be provided by burning on the parapet of the front line trenches large
quantities of damp straw, which had been carried up with much labour, and a good deal of very
frank comment. Much to the relief of those intimately concerned with this bonfire, the wind
on the day of the attack was unfavourable, and the straw at least did not end in smoke. The
demonstration provided some amusement to our Grenadiers, who, with the assistance of a "Gamage"
catapult, and two West Spring Throwers succeeded, to their immense delight in bursting the
old Béthune bomb as shrapnel over the German trenches. It was only when the last bomb was thrown
that Sergt. G. F. Foster, the stoutest Bomber that ever lived and fell, ended a demonstration
which can hardly have caused a flutter in the dove-cotes of the German Higher Command.

Here, as on many other occasions, all ranks would have worked more intelligently, and with
greater personal satisfaction, if they had known something of the general plan, and the part
they were being asked to play. This plan really must have been a big thing, for some one was
kind enough to send us a lot of literature on such subjects as "How to guard against spies
in newly captured territory," and generally how to behave there; whilst maps and other documents
gave us the most intricate detail of every well, and other supply of water for at least 20
miles East of where we were. Evidently the sender was an optimist!

On the 30th September, the 8th Lincolns took over from us in support in the Canal dug-outs.
The enemy having already given us an extremely unpleasant afternoon chose this very inconvenient
occasion for "putting up" a mine under the trenches held by the 6th Battalion, on the South
side of the Canal. This operation and the accompanying bombardment involved a stand-to, and
caused a certain number of casualties both in the trenches and among the troops in the support
dug-outs. The relief was, however, duly carried out, and the Battalion marched back to tents
near Ouderdom in the early hours of October 1st, where a little later in the day General Allenby
came to say goodbye and wish us luck in our new sphere of action.

We had previously, on September 21st, had the honour of being inspected by General Plumer,
commanding the Second Army, who expressed himself as very satisfied with the smart turnout
of the Battalion. We were still very weak, though we had continued to receive small drafts
of reinforcements, and had been joined by five new Officers, 2nd Lieuts. G. H. F. Payling,
R. T. Skinner, R. A. Abrams, G. H. Fisher, and C. Pickerell; "Dolly" Gray also came out again
and rejoined. We had, however, lost Capt. Collin, the Adjutant, who had just left to take up
a Staff Captaincy, and his place after being held for a few days by Lieut. A. Hacking, was
now taken by Lieut. Weetman, who had just rejoined. Capt. Piggford had gone home sick, and
2nd Lieut. P. C. Hemingway wounded; and we had also recently lost M. Lacolle, our one and only
Battalion Interpreter. Henceforth we were not to be allowed this luxury.

It is, perhaps, not out of place to mention here an interesting little episode which had taken
place at home, namely the depositing of the Colours in Newark Parish Church. This ceremony
was carried out on July 24th, and was attended by the Mayor and Corporation of Newark. Lieut.-Col.
G. S. Foljambe was in charge of the parade, and Capt. R. F. B. Hodgkinson commanded the escort
to the Colours, which were carried by 2nd Lieuts. R. J. Shipley and C. Pickerell.

CHAPTER IV

HOHENZOLLERN REDOUBT

  October 1st, 1915.                  October 17th, 1915.

We packed up during the afternoon of October 1st, and in the evening marched to Abeele, where
we entrained for a destination unknown to most of us, but presumed to be somewhere in the far
South. We made ourselves as comfortable as we could for the expected long journey, only to
be rudely awakened after what seemed to be a five minutes' sleep, and turned out into the cold
dark night at Fouquereuil, a suburb of Béthune. The remainder of the night was spent at a somewhat
elusive Orphanage in the town itself. On the following day we moved into billets at the Northern
end of the town on the banks of the La Bassée Canal, where we were joined by the Transport
which had come from Ouderdom by road. October 3rd saw us once more on the move to Mont Bernenchon,
a clean, attractive little village, a few miles N.W. of Béthune. Our hopes of spending a day
or two in peace were soon shattered, for on the following day we made what seemed to be another
emergency move to Béthune, where we embussed for regions unknown. Shortly after dark we arrived
at Vermelles, and picked up guides, who led us as only guides can, to what proved to be a portion
of the German front line system captured in the fighting a few days before. The trenches, which
were near the "Lone Tree," and within sight of the famous "Tower Bridge" at Loos, were little
damaged, and seemed to have been captured without a great deal of fighting, but the incessant
rain and scarcity of habitable dug-outs made our stay as uncomfortable as the most hardened
stoic could have desired. Our work consisted of reversing portions of the original German support
trench to form a fire trench facing the other way. Owing to the distance to the then German
line (1,000 to 1,500 yards) and the low visibility, we were able to work openly and practically
unmolested. Our only casualties were the result of an unlucky shell which fell on the morning
of October 5th, amongst a party of Signallers, killing L.-Sergt. C. E. Harrison, Signalling
Sergeant, and three men, whilst another man died of wounds a few days later.

The same evening we got orders to leave the trenches, and after a thoroughly unpleasant tramp,
in heavy rain and thick darkness over the slippery chalk tracks, which were guess-work to most
of us, we arrived soon after midnight at Mazingarbe, which for dirt, damp, and general cheerlessness,
almost rivalled our never-to-be-forgotten billets at Bac-St. Maur. So ended a beastly, tiring,
and, for all we ever learned, quite purposeless expedition.

After a short meal and much needed rest we felt fit for anything, and made light of the trek
on the early morning of October 6th, to our rest billets, which we found at Fouquières, a nice
clean little village about a mile west of Béthune. Here we found ourselves, for a short time,
in peace and something approaching luxury.

Our move South had brought us into the First Army (General Haig) and XI Corps. (Lt.-General
Haking), which had been busy in the recent fighting, and we now learned definitely for the
first time that in the further fighting that was shortly to take place we were to play a prominent
part. On Saturday, October 9th, preliminary orders and plans were issued, and we learned that
our task was to be the capture of the "Hohenzollern Redoubt" and "Fosse 8," an admirably constructed
scale model of which had been made on the ground outside Divisional Headquarters at Gosnay,
where Officers and N.C.O.'s (and stray inhabitants) spent some time in a careful and interested
examination of it.

In addition, a somewhat hurried reconnaissance of the position itself was made by Col. Fowler
and the Company Commanders from our trenches in front of Vermelles, from which the attack was
to be made. In the short space of a couple of hours they endeavoured to get a working knowledge
of the maze of communication trenches, and the hostile ground over which, if all went well,
we should have to advance. Sunday was spent in Church Parade, and in going again through the
preliminary orders and plans, and in the afternoon the Corps Commander interviewed the Officers
of the Division at Divisional Headquarters. We were then told something more as to the reason
and general plan of the attack, and were informed that we should be supported by the heaviest
concentration of artillery yet known in the war--400 guns of all calibres,--that all contingencies
had been provided for, and that in spite of the strength of the position, we should probably
encounter very little opposition before reaching our objective.

The object of the attack, which was to be undertaken by the XI Corps, was to establish the
left flank of the First Army, and to render possible a further advance in conjunction with
the French on the South. The objective included the "Quarries" and Fosse 8, the 46th Division
being allotted the task of capturing the Hohenzollern Redoubt and Fosse 8, whilst the 12th
Division was to attack on our right, and be responsible for the Quarries. The Fosse and surroundings
had already been in our hands once, having been attacked and captured during the last week
in September by the 9th Division, who unfortunately, however, had been compelled to withdraw,
and a subsequent attempt by the 28th Division to recapture it had also proved a dismal failure.
What, we wondered, was in store for the 46th Division?

Fosse 8 is, or rather was, a typical colliery pit, with the usual winding and head gear and
other plant, and pit-head pile of slag (called in this case "The Dump"), which like its neighbour,
the famous Tower of Wingles, overlooked the whole position, whilst in rear there were the usual
rows of miners' cottages. These cottages (called "Corons") had cellars, and were thus very
easy to defend with machine guns, which could fire with great effect, and comparative safety,
from ground level. In front of the Fosse and protecting it lay the Hohenzollern Redoubt, consisting
of a salient trench system shaped rather like a big bean, and projecting well in front of the
German main system, to which it was connected by communication trenches, and by two flank trenches
known as "Big Willie" and "Little Willie." The importance of the position lay in the fact that
it was on the top of a gentle rise, giving command and good observation of our position on
either side. Its capture was rendered difficult by the fact that the ground in front of it
was level, and almost devoid of cover, affording a very fine field of fire, which could be
swept from practically every direction. From our trenches very little could be seen except
the Dump, and the roof of the manager's house.

The attack was to be carried out by the 137th Brigade on the right under Brigadier-General
E. Feetham, C.B., and the 138th Brigade on the left under Brigadier-General G. C. Kemp, whilst
the 139th Brigade were to be in Divisional Reserve under Brigadier-General C. T. Shipley. The
covering Artillery consisted of three groups of heavy Artillery under the Corps Commander,
and one group of Divisional Artillery (six Brigades of 18-pounders, and one Brigade of 4.5
Howitzers).

To his immense pleasure, 2nd Lieut. R. E. Hemingway, our Battalion Grenade Officer, was put
in charge of the Grenadiers attached to the 138th Brigade, the party also including the Battalion
Grenadier Sergeant, G. F. Foster. Bombing was now entering on the period of its greatest importance--always
in our humble opinion greatly exaggerated. The Mills bomb was rapidly ousting all other kinds,
and shortly became almost the only one in normal use. Much time was put in at throwing practice,
and every kind of artifice was adopted by instructors to make it interesting, and at the same
time improve the aim and distance thrown. A "platoon" of "grenadiers," as they were at first
called, was formed in each Battalion, consisting of a Grenadier Officer, a sergeant and 32
men, (eight from each Company), and to show how much we respected them, we put them when on
the march at the head of the Battalion. There was a Brigade Grenadier Officer too, who made
himself generally responsible for the training and work of Grenadiers throughout the Brigade.
The first Officer appointed to this post in our Brigade was Lieut. A. Hacking, who had taken
over the duties just before the Hohenzollern battle. The task allotted to the Grenadiers in
this fight, was to bomb the various communication trenches leading from "West Face" to "Fosse
Trench," clear dug-outs and establish blocks in "Fosse Alley."

Information regarding the enemy, gained by Corps Intelligence during the attacks of September
25th, and following days from our own Officers, and from the examination of prisoners, was
to the effect that the enemy trenches in the Redoubt, with the exception of "Dump Trench" and
"South Face," were badly damaged and not strongly wired, that previous attacks had been exposed
to heavy enfilade fire from "Mad Point" or "Madagascar," that it was not thought there would
be much enfilade fire from the South-East, and that it was not necessary to waste a lot of
heavy shell on the Dump, as it could be made untenable by both sides. How far this was justifiable
will be seen.

Our few days at Fouquières passed very quickly in the bustle of completing equipment, going
again and again with all ranks through the maps and plans of attack, detailing and organising
bombing squads in the place of those detached for duty with the other Brigades, and writing
last letters home "in case----" There was little or no excitement. We had most of us seen too
much by this time to be either unduly pessimistic or over-confident about our own chances,
so that everything seemed to go quietly and smoothly. The first steel helmets had just arrived--quaint,
antique, Japanese looking things, with ingenious corrugations to catch the bullets--and were
issued to the Machine Gunners, who had also received the first supply of the new Box Respirator,
issued in place of the Smoke Helmet. The Machine Gun section was now commanded by Lieut. Adams.

It was at 3.45 p.m. on October 12th, after making our final inspections and collecting blankets,
packs and other surplus stores at a convenient barn, that we moved off from Fouquières on a
fine Autumn afternoon, leaving behind only 2nd Lieut. Gray, and a few odd men, who were not
fit to go into action. Transport marched in rear of the Battalion to temporary lines behind
Noyelles, where it remained until after the battle.

We had a very pleasant and easy march up to Vermelles, where a halt was made for tea. Here
we were passed by one of the Stafford Battalions who were to make the assault. It was too dark
to see their faces, but their voices were full of confidence and cheeriness, which it did one
good to hear.

A temporary Quarter-Master's Stores was fitted up at "Clarke's Keep," Vermelles, where Companies
picked up their rations for the 13th, water in petrol tins, grenades, Vermorel sprayers, and
other odds and ends likely to be required. An emergency ration of cold bacon and bread was
also issued.

Eventually after a very slow march through Vermelles, which was a seething mass of men and
transport, we arrived about 11 p.m. at our assembly position in "Sussex Trench," where space
was allotted to us by Lieut. C. L. Hill, Signalling Officer, who had gone on ahead with a few
Signallers for that purpose. We soon settled down and made the best we could of what remained
of the night. This was not long, for the carrying parties for the 138th Brigade, and others
had to report for duty at Clarke's Keep at 6 a.m. on October 13th. In all we provided a total
of five Officers and 300 other ranks for this duty, and they were busy most of the morning
taking up to the front line such necessary articles as rations, water, grenades, and rum. His
devotion to the last-named duty was too much for one bloodthirsty, but very ill-disciplined
member of the Battalion, who became "non-effective" in consequence, and was reported by someone,
who saw him lying in the bottom of a communication trench, as "dead--shot through the head."
He was "dead" right enough, but he lived to fight--and, it is feared to "die" again--another day!

Our artillery fire during the morning was normal, "so as not to arouse the suspicions of the
Germans," who, as a fact, probably knew quite as much as most of us about the time and nature
of our attack. But at 12.0 noon, every gun began in real earnest, and it was possible to stand
on the firestep of our trench, and get an undisturbed, if rather distant, view of the shells
bursting all over the German trenches. After half-an-hour of this most unusual, but very pleasing
spectacle, one felt that there would be little left for us to attack.

At 1 p.m. the greenish yellow clouds of smoke and chlorine gas (known for some time as "The
Auxiliary") discharged from cylinders in our front line began to roll towards the enemy lines,
the breeze being exactly right both in strength and direction, and we became happier still
at the thought of paying the Germans back in their own coin. During the whole of our bombardment
we could hear very little reply from the German guns, though from time to time we could see
a few "woolly bears" and other shell-bursts, at odd points about the forward trenches. Probably
they were saving most of their fire for the actual assault, and except for a stray machine
gun bullet or two, we ourselves were in no kind of danger. One of those, however, which must
have dropped at a steep angle, slightly wounded Regimental Sergt-Major Mounteney, who was standing
in the trench with the Officers of Battalion Headquarters. He had only rejoined from England
a few days before, and was our first casualty in the attack.

At 1.50 p.m. the gas discharge ceased, but the smoke was continued until 2.0 p.m., when our
guns "lifted" from the enemy front line, and the 137th and 138th Brigades began the assault.
As the smoke cleared away, we could get a fair view of a portion of the attacking troops (Staffords)
on the right as they went steadily, and apparently in excellent order over the top, but, almost
at the same time we heard with surprise and dismay, the somewhat slow "tap-tap" of numbers
of those enemy machine guns, which were to have been so completely silenced by our bombardment!
We watched the Staffords for a few moments until they disappeared from view.

Then followed a period of anxious waiting, and the only information we got was to the effect
that the 138th Brigade on the left had practically gained their portion of the Redoubt.

Soon after 3 o'clock, we received orders to move forward, and began to proceed by way of "Inverness
Trench," "Bomb Alley" and "Left Boyau" to "Reserve Trench." Movement was very slow, owing to
the congestion of the traffic, and the narrowness of the trenches, and took a long time to
complete. There we were destined to remain for several hours, and suffered a few casualties
from shell fire, apparently directed at the junctions of the trench with "Central" and "Right
Boyaux." We were now nominally at the disposal of General Officer Commanding 137th Brigade,
but never received any orders from him, and eventually drifted to the command of General Officer
Commanding 138th Brigade.

Traffic became more and more congested by the stream of wounded which was now pouring down
Central Boyau and "Barts Alley," and by carrying parties and supports endeavouring to get along
the Reserve Trench up to the Redoubt.

Soon we began to gather scraps of information from those who were coming down, and to realise
that things were going far from well. The usual answer was "Don't ask me, all I know is it's
Hell up there!" It was now getting too dark to see, and we could only gather that at any rate
we were holding the West Face and having a pretty bad time in doing so; also that our Grenadiers
attached to the 138th Brigade, had suffered heavily. Sergt. G. F. Foster was carried down dying
from wounds in the body, and Hemingway was reported to be dangerously wounded, if not already dead.

Things had not gone well. As we learned afterwards the attack of the Staffords on the right
had been held up almost immediately by machine gun fire, and very little ground had been made.
On the left, the Lincolns and Leicesters at first were more fortunate, and reaching West Face
with comparatively few casualties, began to make their way up to Fosse Trench. But the further
they advanced, the more heavy became their losses, until eventually the advance came to a standstill,
the furthest point reached being about 100 yards from Fosse Trench. From these more advanced
positions they were gradually forced back, until only the West Face was in our hands. It is
abundantly clear that the effect of our bombardment did not come up to expectations, and that
many machine guns were untouched, and, worst of all, that the Dump, on which "heavy shell need
not be wasted, as it could be made untenable by either side," proved to be a miniature Gibraltar,
honeycombed with shafts and galleries leading to concealed machine gun emplacements. Small
wonder that little ground could be made or held in the face of such defences.

The news that things were going badly induced a Battalion Commander of another Brigade, whose
Battalion had been taken from him piecemeal and scattered to the four winds of heaven, to order
A Company, in the absence of Col. Fowler, to go across to the Redoubt to reinforce the troops
there. Information, however, was brought by L.-Corpl. Simpson of A Company (killed a few hours
later), who made a rapid and courageous journey over the open to West Face, to the effect that
that trench was already overcrowded, and that the troops there required thinning, rather than
reinforcing.

It was now getting late and things seemed to be in a very unsatisfactory state, when orders
were issued by Col. Fowler, who had met General Kemp in the trenches, and received verbal instructions
to be prepared to carry out an attack at short notice on the right portion of the Redoubt,
for Companies (except B who were detached for other work) to begin to move up in readiness
to our front line trenches. This movement began about 9.0 p.m. very slowly along Reserve Trench
and "Hayward's Heath." The difficulty of moving a Battalion at night, in single file, through
a maze of unfamiliar trenches without losing touch, may be better imagined than described,
and it was after midnight before we had covered the 400 or 500 yards, which was all we had to do.

Whilst this was going on Col. Fowler and the Adjutant, accompanied by the Staff Captain, Major
Wordsworth, made a hasty reconnaissance of the position, and found that elements of the 138th
Brigade and Monmouths were holding the North-Western portion of West Face, whilst the Eastern
portion of Big Willie was held by the 6th Battalion. Except for a short distance near the barricade
on each flank, the trench between these points was held by the enemy.

At 2.45 a.m. on October 14th, we received from General Officer Commanding 138th Brigade, written
orders to attack and consolidate "as soon as possible" the South-Eastern portion of West Face,
the junction of South Face and Big Willie (shewn on the map as Point 60), and if possible the
"Chord" of the Redoubt. The order stated that the 6th Battalion in Big Willie would co-operate
by a bombing attack along that trench "at the same time." Owing to the difficulty of getting
messages to and fro, in the maze of unknown trenches in the dark, it was quite impossible to
get in touch with the 6th Battalion so as to give them any idea when our attack would begin,
so that we were not able to rely on getting much help from them. The Commanding Officer decided
that two Companies would be sufficient for the attack, which was of course going to be without
artillery support, and A Company (Major A. L. Ashwell), and D Company (Capt. B. W. Vann), were
detailed. A hasty conference was arranged at a small dug-out at which Col. Fowler, who intended
himself to lead the attack, gave the few orders that were possible in the circumstances:--"A
quiet advance, no firing, and in with the bayonet."

Owing to the darkness and the unfamiliar ground, it was necessary to make some arrangement
for keeping direction. Major Becher was, therefore, sent across to the West Face, with instructions
to stay at the extreme right flank of the 138th Brigade position, and there to show a light
from a flash lamp on which the left flank of our attack would be directed.

As soon as this was settled, and Company Commanders had issued their instructions, we began
to deploy in front of our original front line trench, as nearly as possible opposite our objective.

It was again a very slow job getting the men out of the deep and narrow support trenches, and
over a single duck-board bridge across the front line into position; indeed many men of D Company
never received the order at all, and remained in the support trench in ignorance of what was
going on. The men were extended to about four paces, D Company on the right, A on the left.
This movement was carried out very quietly, with entire absence of hesitation or confusion,
and the men were then dressed as nearly as possible on the required alignment--no easy matter
when one has only a map, and has never seen the objective or the ground in front of it. Rifles
were loaded and bayonets fixed, Col. Fowler with characteristic unselfishness, giving his rifle
to an Officer who had a bayonet, but no rifle to put it on. All these preliminaries were carried
out without attracting the attention of the enemy, who were about 250 yards away. Finally at
about 3.45 a.m. the order was given to advance, keeping our left flank on Becher's lamp, which
we could see from time to time across the intervening ground. It was a strange experience,
this slow night advance through the darkness and mist in the almost uncanny stillness which,
sooner or later, always follows heavy fighting; so like what many of us had done in peace-time
"night-ops," that it was difficult to realise that this was war, and would end in hand-to-hand
fighting; that, however quietly we went, we must eventually be discovered, and perhaps swept
away by machine gun and rifle fire. The ground was for the most part level, and not badly cut
up, and there was little wire. A few of our dead, one or two severely wounded still struggling
painfully back to our lines, and a number of abandoned rifles were all that were left to show
what had happened on the previous day. When we were about half-way across it was realised that
we were getting too far to the left, and direction was changed half-right. It was not until
the right of the line was close up to the old German wire, that we were discovered. Fire was
opened from somewhere half-right, probably in the neighbourhood of Point 60, but it was not
severe, and only a few casualties were caused. On arriving at West Face it was found to be
practically empty on the right, the few Germans who had been there having probably left hurriedly
as we approached. On the left we found a mixed crowd of Lincolns, Leicesters, and Monmouths,
with a few Robin Hoods, all under the command of Col. Evill, of the Monmouths. Many of them
were wounded, and nearly all were exhausted by their dreadful experiences of the previous day.
Our arrival was, therefore, very opportune and put fresh life into them.

It was now quite evident that we had come too far to the left, and although we had gained 100
yards or so of the West Face, our right flank was not in touch with the 6th Battalion in Big
Willie. In their eagerness to get at the Germans, and urged on by the shouts of the Lincolns
and Leicesters, the left half of A Company ran through the West Face and began pushing on.
The enemy, however, were waking up, and our men were met with much heavier fire, which, although
unaimed, caused a number of casualties. Edge was severely wounded in the arm and chest, and
Everard Handford was killed instantaneously by a bullet in the head, whilst numbers of men
also fell. It was then seen that any further advance was out of the question. The only thing
to be done was to consolidate what we had, and try to extend our gains laterally by bombing
along the West Face. Grenadiers and grenades (English and German) were collected, parties were
organised by Ashwell and Vann, and several more yards of trench were gained. Strachan leading
one of these along the trench with utter fearlessness was never seen again, and was probably
killed at once. Shortage of grenades soon made it clear that we must stop and build a barricade
to hold up the Germans, who as usual seemed to have a never-ending supply.

On the extreme right, Vann and others of D Company had come across some Boches out of the trench,
apparently preparing to make an attack over the open. Most of these were slaughtered, and the
rest made all possible haste back to their trench. This appears to have been part of an organised
counter-attack, as the enemy tried a similar attack on the left as well, which also failed.
Nothing was heard of the bombing in Big Willie by the 6th Battalion, but we learnt afterwards
that they had made several attempts to progress along that trench without success.

All available tools and sandbags were got together in the trench to build a barricade at the
right flank. It was now getting light, and this was attended with much danger, and in the work
of filling sandbags and placing them at the barricade, we had several men killed in a very
short time.

Vann had already been wounded by a bullet in the left forearm, and had gone down to be dressed,
returning with his usual courage and tenacity, after having his wound attended to. The Commanding
Officer, however, would not let him stay, and he had to go down again to hospital. Ashwell
was hit by a bullet in the right shoulder a few minutes after Vann, and he, too, had to leave us.

The enemy were not more than fifty yards away, and the least exposure brought a bullet with
deadly aim, though in this respect they did not have things entirely their own way. We could
distinctly see the tops of their helmets over the parapet, and at one time there was such a
collection that we thought they were going to attack, but nothing came of it, and we settled
down to work again. There was no wire or obstacle of any kind between the two trenches. We
were too close to get our guns on to them, otherwise we could have done much execution. Practically
all the work on the right was done by men of D Company, who eventually made a barricade, which
was more or less bullet-proof, and dug a length of trench to protect that flank. Here Sergt.
W. L. Green did excellent work, encouraging everyone by his fine example. For nearly 24 hours
he stuck to his post in spite of bombs and rifle fire. He was ably assisted by Sergt. Turgoose
and Pvtes. Keeling, Hubbard, Dickinson, Offord and Sly of D Company, also Pvte. F. Attenborough
of A Company, whilst L.-Corpl. Skelton did splendid work in attending to wounded.

Meanwhile Col. Fowler had made arrangements for the defence of the trench on the left, from
which, much to their relief the Lincolns, Leicesters, and Monmouths, had been withdrawn during
the early hours of the morning. Their place had been taken by A Company, which having lost
all its Officers, was now commanded by Sergt. L. Bell. Parties were set to work to improve
the trench, which was badly knocked about, and during the following night the Company dug a
new trench a few yards in front, in order to get a better field of fire and for better protection.
The Northern end of West Face was all this time held by the 7th Battalion.

C Company (Capt. H. B. S. Handford, in place of Capt. G. S. Heathcote, who had left to do duty
at the Base) who had been left behind in Hayward's Heath when A and D Companies went over to
attack, stayed there until 5.0 a.m. when 2nd Lieut. R. A. Abrams and a party of 15 were detailed
to carry grenades up to A Company in the Redoubt, where many of them remained. The rest of
the Company moved up to a communication trench near the original front line, where they received
orders from a Battalion Commander of another Brigade, to carry water and grenades over the
open to the Redoubt. They started shortly after 7.30 a.m., but as it was quite light, they
were seen immediately, and heavy machine gun and rifle fire was opened on them at once. Basil
Handford and several others were killed instantaneously, and several were wounded. The attempt
was foredoomed to failure, and the men were ordered back into the trench. For the rest of the
day they helped to carry stores to the Redoubt by way of a new communication trench and to
fetch in and attend to the wounded. Very gallant work was done in this operation by Comp. Sergt.-Major
Haywood, Sergts. Leivers and Bexton, and Pvtes. Winterbottom, Allen, and Eyre.

B Company (Capt. Turner) had been detached about 5.0 p.m. on October 13th, and ordered to proceed
over the open to reinforce the garrison of our original front line. They remained for some
time in the old support line, from which all the Company Grenadiers were sent up to reinforce
the men in the Redoubt. One of these, L.-Corpl. G. W. Moore, did very gallant work in remaining
alone for three-quarters-of-an-hour on the enemy's side of a barricade, which was being built
up behind him, and then continued to bomb the enemy for eight hours. The Company was later
ordered to dig a communication trench to link up the Redoubt with our old front line. They
started about 9.0 p.m., and worked continuously on it throughout the night, much of the time
under heavy rifle fire, and by dawn a serviceable trench had been dug, and a very important
communication established. Capt. Turner was congratulated by the Officer Commanding the 7th
Battalion on the very good work of his Company, in the supervision of which he had been most
ably assisted by Sergt. Rawding.

October 14th seemed a never-ending day for those in the Redoubt. Fortunately in a way, the
lines were too close together for us to be shelled, but bombing went on almost uninterruptedly,
and our casualties mounted rapidly. Grenadier reinforcements were sent along from time to time
from every Company in the Battalion, also from the 5th Battalion, whilst 2nd Lieut. G. H. Fisher,
who was acting as Grenade Officer in the absence of Hemingway, came up during the morning,
and at the right barricade displayed the greatest courage until he was badly wounded and had
to leave, dying a few days later. Bombing was also going on at the left barricade, and throughout
the day from one flank or the other, the cry was ever "more bombs" or "more Bombers." We had
fortunately been able to get a signal line up to the Redoubt, and a station established there,
in a fairly deep dug-out, so that most of the time we were in telephonic communication with
those behind.

Our relief promised for the night of October 14th, never came, and we were compelled, alas,
to remain in the Redoubt. Everyone was tired out, having had little or no sleep, and very little
food, for 48 hours. As soon as it was dark the Sappers put out some wire in front of West Face,
which encouraged us considerably, and we got through the night without any untoward incident.
About 6.30 a.m., on the morning of October 15th, we were relieved in West Face by portions
of the 5th and 6th Battalions, and by Grenadiers of the Irish Guards, and withdrawn to "Railway
Reserve Trench," where we joined up with the remainder of B and C Companies. By the tragic
irony of fate, as the Guards were actually filing into West Face and the relief was nearly
complete, Col. Fowler, who was taking a last glance over the top to see if he could find any
trace of Major Becher, the last signs of whom had been the flashes of his lamp, to guide us
across to the Redoubt--was killed instantaneously by a sniper's bullet. So determined had he
been to find Becher, that he had himself gone out during the night with Sergt. Stokes in a
gallant but unsuccessful endeavour to find him.

Major J. E. Blackwall of the 6th Battalion took over the remnants of the Battalion the same
evening, and shortly before midnight we were devoutly thankful to be relieved by the Irish
Guards. As the relief was taking place, the enemy attempted an attack against the garrison
of West Face, but as this was now swelled by the relieving troops, they got rather more than
they bargained for, and were beaten off with heavy loss. At the same time they put down quite
a barrage on the reserve trenches, and made our relief distinctly unpleasant, but eventually
we got it completed without further casualty.

Much to our delight, just before leaving, we heard that Becher had been found. It appears that
whilst we were going over to the attack, he had been bombed by the Boches, and badly wounded,
as also had Daniels, his batman, who was with him. They got separated, but both managed to
crawl away, though Becher eventually had to lie by in an old bit of trench near the German
lines. It was from here that, after having been discovered by an Officer of the Leicesters,
he was eventually rescued on October 15th, by Comp. Sergt.-Major Haywood, and L.-Sergt. T.
Martin, who carried him a distance of 200 yards under more or less continuous rifle fire. Alas,
however, he was not to recover, and after lingering on for ten weeks, he died in hospital on
January 1st, 1916. In John Becher the Battalion lost one who was beloved by all, who had throughout
ever had at heart the welfare of his men, whether in or out of the trenches, at work or at
play. What he did in the early trench days at Kemmel, was known to few. Often and often he
was out on patrol at night in "No Man's Land," mainly for the sake of example, for it was part
of his creed never to tell a man to do anything that he would not dare to do himself. He lies
buried in the British cemetery at Abbeville. It was a hard fate that struck down John Becher
and his two brothers-in-law, Basil and Everard Handford--two of the most promising young Officers
in the Battalion--within a few hours of each other.

Much untiring energy and devotion were shewn by many during these strenuous three days, not
by any means the least by our Medical Officer, Capt. C. B. Johnstone, and his stretcher bearers.
Johnstone himself worked almost incessantly for over 48 hours in attending the wounded, and
in many cases helped to carry them long distances, often under heavy fire. To him and all his
helpers are due our grateful thanks for their work on that occasion.

On relief we marched out to the Transport Lines behind Noyelles, where, in the early hours
of October 16th, we got some most welcome and refreshing tea, supplied by Torrance and his
followers, and then moved on, most of us more asleep than awake, to Vaudricourt, where we arrived
about 6.30 a.m., and at once got down to sleep in some of the poorest billets it was ever our
misfortune to strike.

Thus ended the more or less fruitless battle of Hohenzollern Redoubt. Though we held a portion
of the Redoubt as a result of the fighting, it was of no tactical value, and indeed later on
was evacuated or blown up. The 12th Division fared no better, and we can only look back on
the whole attack as, through no fault of our own, a dismal failure. The battle caused us enormous
casualties, all to no purpose. Our Battalion alone lost seven Officers and 35 other ranks killed
or died of wounds, three Officers and 132 other ranks wounded, and 14 missing, all of whom
were afterwards found to have been killed. Amongst the casualties were Sergt. H. Hall, killed,
and Sergts. Archer, Burn, Barrow, and I. B. Bell and Corpl. Bruerton wounded.

It was a pleasure to all to hear a little later that for his gallantry and splendid work in
this attack, and on many other occasions, "Pat" Ashwell was awarded a well-deserved D.S.O.

At 5.0 p.m. on the afternoon of October 17th, the whole Battalion and many Officers of the
Brigade and Division, attended the funeral of our beloved Colonel in the English cemetery,
under the Church at Fouquières, the service being taken by his old friend Padre Hales. Some
18 months afterwards the Battalion arrived in billets six miles away from this spot, after
a long and tiring march. They were expected to move into the line the next day, and some Officers
who were lucky enough to be mounted, rode over to see the Colonel's grave. Around the grave,
which had been carefully looked after by the Curé and other kind friends, and was covered with
snowdrops and daffodils just in bloom, they found a number of the old Warrant Officers and
N.C.O.'s of the Battalion paying a silent tribute to their old Commanding Officer. Such a tribute,
surely is the finest testimonial to the character of a man who ever inspired in all ranks an
affection and respect, which can never have been exceeded in any unit of the army.

CHAPTER V

RICHEBOURG--MARSEILLES--CANDAS

  October 18th, 1915.                 March 5th, 1916.

We were now little more than a skeleton of a Battalion, so that the arrival of 103 reinforcements,
including Sergt. E. E. Deverall, was very welcome, but so far as Officers were concerned we
remained for the moment very depleted. Capt. Turner remained in command of B Company; Lieut.
E. M. Hacking took over A; Lieut. Abrams C, and Lieut. Gray D.

Major-General Stuart-Wortley came to see us on October 18th, when the Battalion paraded in
a field just outside Vaudricourt, and thanked us for our work in the battle, and spoke to a
few of the N.C.O.'s and men, whose names had been forwarded as having done specially well.

The following day we were not sorry to leave our wretched billets and march to Lapugnoy, where
we got very comfortable quarters, and stayed for a week. Here we were able to do a little reorganising,
and were fortunate in getting several new subalterns, viz.: 2nd Lieuts. A. Andrews, H. R. Peerless,
who shortly became Battalion Grenade Officer, F. E. Kebblewhite, C. H. Powell, A. H. G. Cox,
E. Hopkinson (formerly Comp. Sergt.-Major of C Company) and H. B. Hammond. With their welcome
arrival. Companies got more or less into shape. We were unfortunate in having to send a large
party by 'bus one day to Sailly Labourse, to help to fetch out the empty gas cylinders from
the Hohenzollern trenches, but on the whole the few days spent at Lapugnoy were very pleasant.
The "Whizzbangs" were in the same village, and gave several good shows, which after our recent
gruelling were very refreshing, the more so as on this occasion they were assisted by two French
ladies, who, needless to say, added enormously to the attraction.

The "Vin blink" of Lapugnoy was also most attractive, and apparently rather more than usually
potent, for it was undoubtedly the cause of casualties amongst all ranks. We left there on
October 26th, and marched to Béthune, where we were again fortunate in being comfortably billeted
at the Orphanage, with Officers' billets and Headquarters' Mess in the Rue de Lille.

Two days later, on October 28th, a review of troops of the XI Corps, was held by the King and
the Prince of Wales at Hesdigneul. Representatives of all units of the 46th Division were included
in the parade, to which we contributed a composite Company of six Officers and 250 other ranks,
under Capt. Davenport. The parade ground was a newly ploughed field, and as for several days
previously there had been heavy rain the conditions were extremely unfavourable. After taking
the salute, the King went on to inspect another unit in an adjoining field, where, unfortunately,
he had a nasty accident, and the last we saw of him was driving away from the parade ground
and looking very ill.

Further reinforcements joined us at Béthune, mostly from entrenching Battalions, making our
strength up to more normal figures, though for many months to come, we seldom exceeded 600
to 700 all told. Capt. Hill was appointed to command D Company, 2nd Lieut. Cox succeeding him
as Signalling Officer. Mounteney rejoined and resumed his duties as Regimental Sergt.-Major.

Our next move was to the Richebourg sector--probably the most miserable trenches we ever met
with, and then held by Indian troops. Leaving Béthune on November 4th, we proceeded via Epinette,
where we spent one night, to Vieille Chapelle and relieved the 58th Rifles (Meerut Division)
in front line trenches on November 6th, with Battalion Headquarters in "Edward Road," just
behind Richebourg L'Avoué, and the front line a little in front of that village, and just South
of Neuve Chapelle. This was a bad country for trenches, being flat and low lying, with the
water level even at normal times very near the surface. The Boche as usual had such high ground
as there was. This was mainly in the region of the Bois du Biez on our left, from which he
got a fair view over much of our area. The Indians had done little trench work, and all that
was taken over was a very poor front line, with a few scraps of support trenches, and one or
two communication trenches, mostly full of water. It was during our first tour that a waggish
Hun called out one night, after one of our Very lights had made rather a worse display than
usual, "Better luck next time. I'll shew you how to send them "--which he promptly did, adding
later, "I don't want to fight, I've had enough of the war." Towards the end of our stay in
this area, we came across another talkative lot of Boches, who had a good deal to say one night,
enquiring what regiment we were, and making various remarks about cigarettes and plum puddings.

It was towards the end of our first tour that we had the first of our happily few casualties
in this area, Lieut. Houfton being killed early in the morning of November 11th. He was endeavouring
to make his way with Lieut. Abrams along an absolutely water-logged trench to "Boar's Head,"
the extreme right of our Battalion sector, and they were evidently being carefully watched
by a Boche sniper, who was doubtless able from time to time to catch a glimpse of their caps
above the parapet. Eventually, when they got to a spot where the parapet was particularly low,
he fired, the bullet killing Houfton, and passing through the peak of Abrams' cap. Sergt. T.
Martin gallantly went to Houfton's aid, across 400 yards of very difficult and exposed ground.

The front we held was changed somewhat after a time, and we side-stepped to the left, with
Battalion Headquarters in dug-outs, at the side of the Rue du Bois. The few odd houses left
along this road were mostly used by the Gunners as observation posts, the principal being "Ritz,"
"Carlton," "Princes," and "Trocadero," and as the Boche gunners probably had a very shrewd
suspicion of this, the neighbourhood of the road was often not a healthy spot, and on one or
two occasions was shelled fairly heavily. It was on one of these, when we had some men wounded
near "Factory Corner," that Pvte. Redfern, the old bandsman, coolly went to their aid in the
midst of the shelling, and was dressing one of the men when he was himself mortally wounded.
L.-Corpls. W. H. Lacey and S. Matthews also shewed great bravery in rescuing wounded men at
the same time. In connection with this shelling of areas behind the front line, a somewhat
unhappily worded order was received to the effect that daily reports frequently omitted to
mention the activities of hostile artillery, and that as an example at a certain time on a
certain day, "Guards Trench" was subjected to a sharp bombardment, and that had it not been
for the fact that "a Staff Officer was accidentally in the front line at the time," nothing
would have been known of this at Divisional Headquarters!

The Boche machine gunners gave us a certain amount of trouble too, particularly at night, when
they regularly sprayed all the area from the Rue du Bois to "Windy Corner," doubtless hoping
to catch transport and carrying parties. One particular artiste used to try to play tunes with
his gun and we had no difficulty in recognising his favourite as an attempt at "Yip-y-addy."
It was a very unlucky burst from one of these one night that killed that very brave soldier
Sergt. Sheppard, who had previously been awarded the D.C.M. for gallantry at Hooge. Lieut.
Adams, our machine gun Officer, did his best to get his own back against them, and used to
stalk out nightly alone, contrary to all regulations, and fire off his guns at odd times in
the hope of catching someone. He was rewarded one night, after patiently lying in wait for
a search light that the enemy had used occasionally from their front line parapet, by knocking
it out with a burst of fire almost the instant it shewed itself. But on the whole there was
very little excitement; in fact, we hardly had time for much, as we only spent a total of 16
days in the trenches here altogether. Cold winter weather had set in, and there was little
or no comfort possible for the men holding the front line. It was here that we first really
found it necessary to use "gumboots thigh" when they could be got, and to dress legs and feet
daily with whale oil to try and ward off that horrid complaint "trench feet," which might easily
have caused many casualties in such trenches as these. A most complicated form had to be filled
up with every case sent down to hospital suffering from trench foot, and no mercy was shewn
to any Commanding Officer who did not take every precaution to prevent it. Fortunately we had
a very good record. Every effort was made to relieve the men in the front line every 24 hours,
and to take them back as often as possible to the billets near Windy Corner, where they were
able to get their clothes dried, and a good night's rest before going back to the line.

Our rest billets and Transport were at Vieille Chapelle. The field where the latter had their
lines was nothing but a mass of mud, in most places knee-deep. The Transport at this time shewed
remarkable activity, limbers going backwards and forwards all day to Lacouture on some mysterious
duty, which was by no means unconnected with the excitement which arose in "A" Branch of Divisional
Headquarters towards the end of our stay, about some houses missing from that village! They
had been removed piecemeal to the transport lines, where they were used to form standings.

During one tour spent in Brigade support, Battalion Headquarters and two Companies were in
that village, and two Companies in billets in Richebourg St. Vaast, or finding garrisons for
"St. Vaast," "Grotto" and "Angle" posts. An interesting discovery in the rafters of a ruined
house at Richebourg St. Vaast was a pepper box found to contain several gold louis. Capt. E.
M. Hacking was the means of their being handed over to the French authorities and, we hope,
eventually restored to their owner. The billets at Lacouture were not very good, but we had
a great find there in the shape of what had once been a billiard table in the remains of the
Village Institute. At the same time curiously enough, and for some time afterwards, the Quarter-Master
reported that the demand for green cloth for putting behind cap badges was extraordinarily small!

The main drawback to our periods of rest was those wretched working parties, which seemed to
pursue us everywhere. Here the work in hand was the building of a solid breastwork in continuation
of Guards Trench, just East of the Rue du Bois. Two nights out of each four we were at rest,
we had to send large parties to Richebourg to carry on this work, which was being done "by
the piece." A certain number of sandbags were issued to each man about half-a-mile before he
got to his work, and he was told that when these had been filled and laid he could return.
It is perhaps needless to say that many of the sandbags found a resting place in the nearest
ditch, not far from the Royal Engineers' dump, where they were issued, and that the building
of the breastwork did not proceed very rapidly.

During our stay here several new Officers joined, including 2nd Lieuts. H. K. Simonet, G. A.
P. Rawlings, and A. H. Michie from the 2/8th Battalion, and 2nd Lieuts. A. Bedford, G. G. Elliott,
and W. W. Pitt. We were also given as Second-in-Command, Major E. H. Heathcote, from the 6th
Battalion, whilst his brother Capt. G. S. Heathcote, rejoined at the end of November and resumed
command of C Company. At the same time Capt. E. M. Hacking went to Brigade Headquarters to
learn Staff duties, leaving A Company under Lieut. Andrews, until taken over a little later
by Capt. A. Hacking, who rejoined from Brigade. We also lost 2nd Lieut. Pickerell, who was
invalided home. Our losses in other ranks during our stay amounted to three killed and 15 wounded.

On December 2nd--we retain most pleasant memories of that night--we were relieved by the 7th
Battalion in the left sector, and on one of the darkest nights known, made our way back in
the usual way to Vieille Chapelle. About 9.30 p.m. a message was received from Brigade that
the Commanding Officer or Adjutant was wanted at once. The Adjutant was sent and came back
with the news that we were to be "prepared to move at short notice to an unknown destination."
At 5.0 a.m. the next morning further orders were received and we left Vieille Chapelle at noon
the same day, marching via Merville to Haverskerque, where we got very good if scattered billets.
There we proceeded to clean off some of the mud of the Richebourg trenches. During our march
we met units of the 19th Division, moving up to relieve the troops in the trenches, and could
not help feeling a touch of sympathy for them having been suddenly fetched away from comfortable
billets, to take over such water-logged trenches, and we felt that for once fortune had favoured
us.

Rumours of all kinds began to float around, and of all quarters of the globe that were mentioned
"Egypt" was believed to be "it," and it was not long before we found out that that indeed was
our intended destination.

Everyone was happy, and we were soon looking smart once more; in fact, so splendid was the
effort at cleaning up, that the Battalion was congratulated by our Divisional Commander at
his inspection on December 7th, as being the smartest Battalion of the eleven he had inspected.

Odd men who had been detached for duty with other units rejoined. We had a few small drafts,
and one new Officer, 2nd Lieut. W. H. B. Rezin.

We now settled down for drill, interior economy, and lectures. Particular attention was given
to guard drill and guard mounting ceremonies, as the Divisional Commander expressed a wish
that we should turn out like the Guards Division, who were in the same Corps. Fur coats and
other winter kit were handed in. A horrid pro forma certificate reached Orderly Room, and the
Commanding Officer found he had to sign a certificate to the effect that the Battalion was
in possession of every article enumerated in A.F.G. 1098 (Mobilisation Store Table). This document
contained such items as "screws, brass, buckle roller 1 in. × 7/8 in.--2" "awls, brad--1;"
"cordage, tarred spun yarn,--lbs. 14," and other luxuries which had long been considered superfluous,
and mostly lost in the Salient. We had been told to indent for anything we wanted in the way
of clothing or equipment, so that there was some consternation on the arrival of a new and
fierce Deputy Assistant Director of Ordnance Services just at this moment, who told Quarter-Masters
that during the last month, the whole of the Guards Division had not used the number of articles
they were indenting for. Formal indents for "awls, brad," etc., were therefore out of the question.
The Quarter-Master accused the Transport Officer, and the Transport Officer accused the Quarter-Master,
but in the end the mess cart, which had a good cover, was requisitioned, and made two or three
secret journeys by night to Merville, and when surprise was expressed that everything on the
Mobilisation Store Table was present, both the individuals concerned looked supremely innocent,
and no more was said about it. It has since transpired that a jar of rum played a prominent
part in this incident.

Here we parted with "Big Ben," "Old Bob," and other heavy draught horses, which had been with
us since leaving Newark, and received in exchange mules from the Guards Divisional Ammunition
Column, two of which rejoiced in the aristocratic names of "Harry Thaw," and "Legs Eleven."

We were inspected by the Assistant Director of Medical Services; we had lectures on "Duties
on board ship" and "Entraining." Special short leave was granted to a few lucky ones, and all
preparations were made for a big move. Our billets were very comfortable. We could get good
dinners at the "Corner Café," and those of us who were there, will never forget the wonderful
concert given by the 19th Divisional Ammunition Column who were billeted there, in which two
ladies from Merville assisted.

On December 19th, we marched to Wittes, a small village on the La Bassée Canal, near Aire.
This was a short march on a bright Sunday morning, chiefly memorable for a wonderful equestrian
feat on the part of a certain Company Commander, who went with his horse into a dyke at the
starting point, and instead of coming out with the animal, stayed in by himself, and for the
fact that an unfortunate mistake in map reading, caused the Battalion to perform a most startling
and snake-like turning feat in a lane only a few feet wide, the mistake being discovered just
as the last transport vehicle had entered the lane. However, as it was a bright day and we
were going away, great good humour prevailed, and each Company played "Here we go round the
water cart" in its own good time, and the tangle was soon sorted out.

Our before breakfast parade at Wittes on a few occasions took the novel form of the whole Battalion
doubling up and down along the Canal side to the accompaniment of the drums. This was entertaining
for a brief space, but the novelty soon wore off. Ordinary training was continued, and included
several route marches. It was during one of these that the C Company "wag" brought forth a
spontaneous remark one day when passing one of those little dog-carts one used to see so often.
It was very heavily laden and the dog was straining every nerve. A big, powerful looking woman
was walking at the side carrying a horse whip, but taking no share in the burden. As the Company
passed, our friend remarked "Eh, mum, you've forgotten your spurs!"

Christmas, 1915, spent at Wittes was a very cheery one. All sorts of good things had been received
from home, including a present for every Officer and man from the Nottingham Comforts Fund,
and altogether we had a most enjoyable time. Football matches and sports of all kinds were
indulged in, and one has vivid recollections of Sergt. Deverall giving a wonderful boxing display,
and of a poor Frenchman waking up one morning to find his best wagon at the bottom of the Canal.

[Illustrated: MAJOR J. P. BECHER, D.S.O. Died of wounds, Jan. 1st, 1916.]

On Boxing-Day we marched via Aire to fresh billets at Molinghem, which were probably the most
verminous we ever found. In spite of this drawback we had a very good time, and on January
6th, 1916, had the pleasure of welcoming the 11th Sherwood Foresters, who marched over from
a neighbouring village and played us at football. After a good game we beat them by two goals
to one. A Brigade inter-Battalion football competition was also played, in which after beating
the 5th Battalion one--none, and the 7th Battalion three--none, we won the Brigade championship
and some very neat medals.

Whilst at Molinghem, we got our long expected orders to move South, and on January 7th, A and
C Companies, and half the First Line Transport vehicles, under Major E. H. Heathcote entrained
at Berguette, and were followed by the remainder of the Battalion on January 9th, except the
horses, which were entrained at Lillers on January 11th. Eventually, after a train journey
of nearly three days, the Battalion was concentrated at Marseilles, where after some rearranging,
Battalion Headquarters and B and D Companies were billeted at Camp Moussot, and A and C Companies
under Major Heathcote, at Camp Borely.

At Marseilles we spent what was probably our happiest fortnight in France. It is not difficult
to imagine the pleasure everyone experienced at being transported to the shores of the Mediterranean
in January after the filth and mud in the trenches, and wet and fogs of Northern France. The
change was marvellous, and the turnout and appearance of the men splendid, and indeed the subject
of comment by English people arriving from abroad, who said they could not help being struck
on landing at finding the place full of well set-up and healthy English Tommies. Truly the
change was delightful, though the Officers who had the misfortune to be billeted for a time
in the draughty bathing establishment opposite Borely Camp, are not likely to forget the cold
nights they spent there. Sea bathing, which we got almost next door to the Camp, was a great
delight, and of course the town itself was full of attractions. We need only mention such names
as the Cannibière, Theresa's Bar, Lindens, The Alcazar, Castell Muro, The Palais Crystal, The
Bodega, and The Novelty, to recall many incidents to all those who were fortunate enough to
be with us. It was certainly delightful, but played havoc with our banking accounts, and must
have given Mr. Cox a very busy time. We did a certain amount of training in our more serious
moments, which were not many, ordinary work normally finishing about 1.0 p.m., and the men
being allowed out from 2.0 p.m. onwards. Many guards and camp and town fatigues had to be found,
however, almost daily, which much depleted our numbers on parade. Training was mainly of the
barrack square type. There was a certain amount of interest for those at Moussot Camp, in watching
the Indian Troops, whilst those at Borely spent much time either in dodging the loose horses
and mules, which wandered at will about the Camp, or the Camp Commandant, who had a violent
dislike to orange peel, and if he found any at once arrested the nearest man, whether guilty
or not!

Four new Officers joined us there, viz., 2nd Lieuts. C. G. Tomlinson, E. C. Marshall, A. A.
Hodgson, and W. S. Jones, and a draft of 39 men, all of whom no doubt thought it a very "bon" war.

Plans for our sea journey had got so far advanced that our transport vehicles had actually
been taken down to the docks for loading, when, alas for us, our hopes of going East were shattered
on January 24th, by the receipt of orders to entrain the next night.

What exactly caused the sudden change of plans we did not know at the time, but subsequently
heard it was due to the unexpected ease with which Gallipoli had been evacuated. Needless to
say there was much regret on all sides, especially when we found that we were to go back to
the North of France and join the Third Army on the Western Front. On the evening of the 25th
January, we marched down through cheering crowds of French people to the Gare d'Arenc, where
after waiting about for four hours, we entrained at 4.10 a.m. on the 26th. It is sad to think
that this wait gave an opportunity once more for light-fingered people in the Transport Section
to annex eight or nine P.L.M. goods sheets, which were carefully stowed away, one on each limber,
and later proved of great value in several places where there was a scarcity of billets.

We detrained at Pont Remy on the morning of January 28th, after a peculiarly uncomfortable
journey, and owing to our guide preferring to go three miles uphill to one on the flat our
march to Ergnies was a somewhat lengthy business. In this area we followed the Ulster Division,
and we are glad to add that the billets taken over from them were invariably scrupulously clean,
and had evidently been vastly improved under their able medical authorities. We stayed here
for several days, and had an opportunity of resting the men after their long journey, and of
carrying out a little training. Some of this was in preparation for a Brigade ceremonial parade,
which took place on February 3rd, when General Shipley spoke of the splendid work done by the
Brigade in France up to that time, and read out a list of the honours and decorations awarded,
of which we had had a fair share. At Ergnies we had flying visits from Col. Huskinson and "Doc."
Stallard, both of whom we were delighted to see looking very fit.

On February 10th, we marched to Ribeaucourt, where we stayed for a little over a week. Here
on February 16th, we parted with Lieut. Adams, 2nd Lieut. Rezin, and 35 N.C.O.'s and men of
the Machine Gun Section, who went to form part of the newly created "Brigade Machine Gun Company."
In place of the Vickers gun thus withdrawn, we were issued with the new light Lewis Machine
Gun, air cooled, mounted on a bipod and easily carried. Each Company had two of these and the
whole were supervised by a Battalion Lewis Gun Officer, 2nd Lieut. Simonet being the first
to be appointed to this duty. Musketry was carried out on a 300 yard range, which we fitted
up near the village, and bombing practice under the guidance of 2nd Lieut. Peerless, who made
considerable progress in the use of the West Spring Thrower. Capt. A. Hacking had been again
taken to Brigade Headquarters, to act as Grenade Officer, and Capt. Lawson who had rejoined
at Wittes, was appointed to command A Company in his place. All this time we were well in the
back regions out of harm's way. The only journey made to the front area was that by a party
of Officers, who one day had to reconnoitre some reserve lines of trenches near Forceville
and Mailly Maillet. We once had orders to be prepared to take over the line at Beaumont Hamel,
but this fell through.

Ribeaucourt we shall always remember, owing to the exorbitant claims made by the inhabitants
for damage to billets. Never before nor after did we receive such demands as those made by
the good people of that village, headed by the Maire, who after showing much hospitality to
a few of us, seemed to want to give the villagers a lead in their demands! How they were eventually
settled we never found out. Here, too, Capt. Davenport and Sergt. Blunt were chased down the
village street one day by two infuriated women armed with broomsticks, their store of bully
beef and army shirts having been discovered by the former, when looking for odds and ends to
hand into the Deputy Assistant Director of Ordnance Services in exchange for new articles.
The D.A.D.O.S. had just issued an ultimatum to the effect that he would issue nothing except
on the return of the old article. Transport men, therefore, scoured the country side for bottoms
of nose-bags, backs of dandy brushes, pieces of rope, etc., which were cleaned and handed in
and quite a good stock of new articles was obtained in return.

On February 20th, we were taken in motor 'buses by a somewhat circuitous route to fresh billets
at Candas, where we stayed until March 6th. Most of this time the weather was extremely cold
and there were several heavy snowstorms. Navvying on new railways was our chief work, under
the supervision of the 112th Company Royal Engineers, either about Puchevillers, or the station
at Candas, in preparation for the offensive that was to take place later on. Our fortnight
at Candas completed three whole months of what was practically "rest" in the back areas. We
were now to play a more active part in the war.

CHAPTER VI

VIMY RIDGE

  March 6th, 1916.                    April 21st, 1916.

Vimy Ridge will always bring up in the minds of those of the 8th Sherwood Foresters, who were
with us at that time the word "Mines." Everyone seemed somehow or other to have heard that
that part of the line was famous for mining warfare, and as the news was passed on from one
to another that Vimy Ridge was our destination, a kind of whisper of "Mines" passed with it.
The area proved to be a mass of mines, and we found that mining warfare was extremely unpleasant,
though most of our own experience was confined to the latter part of our stay there.

The front line in this sector, in the early part of 1915 had run through the East end of the
Lorette Ridge to Carency, and thence to La Targette, but on September 25th of that year, the
French had driven the enemy back nearly a mile, practically to the foot of the Vimy Ridge itself.
In this area were portions of the front having such well-known names as "The Labyrinth," and
Souchez Sugar Refinery--reminders of the fact that some of the most savage fighting of the
whole war took place there, owing to the struggle of the enemy to retain a footing on that
splendid line of observation, the Lorette Ridge. The Arras-Béthune Road, known as the Route
de Béthune, and bordered by a few scraggy trees, ran through the sector more or less from North
to South--about a mile behind the front line, and two miles in front of Mont St. Eloy. The
forward area was a scene of desolation--trenches and wire, shell-holes everywhere, mine craters
here and there, shewing more or less where No Man's Land was, and beyond them the gently sloping
ridge, with little variation except a few shattered trees marking the site of La Folie Wood.

Such was the sector that our advance party of Officers went up to reconnoitre on March 5th.
The French were holding the line, and this was the Battalion's only experience of taking over
from them. We were not let into the secret of the why and wherefore of the move, but doubtless
we relieved in order to allow them to send much wanted help to their friends at Verdun, who
were now so hard pressed owing to the enemy's continued attacks. It was hoped that the fact
of our taking over this part of the line could be kept from the Boche, at least until relief
was complete, and to further this object the advance party were given French "tin hats" to
wear so as to maintain the deception. We fear that despite our efforts, the enemy knew just
about as much of the relief as we did, and rumour says that a Boche scout, on getting across
to the French front line two days before we relieved them, openly expressed his surprise to
the French sentry that the English had not already arrived! We were shewn the greatest kindness
by the French when we went up to reconnoitre, and they did all they could to explain the situation,
and many an Officer drank confusion to the enemy in a glass of sweet sparkling wine. Those
who were there will doubtless well remember the group of Officers being assembled just behind
the Arras-Béthune road, in full view of the German lines, under the French Brigade Major, who
was acting as guide, when the Hun gunners, not being able to let such an opportunity slip,
at once put over a few "pip-squeaks," and we discovered with a considerable amount of pleasure,
that our gallant Allies were just about as good in getting to ground as ourselves, if not a
trifle better. It was, however, a rude awakening to the fact that a war was still on, which
we had rather forgotten during our stay in the South of France, and in the back areas.

Leaving Candas on March 6th, we marched on a very snowy day, via Doullens, to Iverny, moving
on the 8th to Maizières, and on the 9th to Acq, where we had to make the best of most uncomfortable
billets, the whole village being a seething mass of troops, French and English, and every billet
crowded to its utmost limit. On the occasion of this move we marched, in accordance with instructions,
in column of three's. This system was tried owing to the narrow roads, but only lasted a few
months.

On the following day we moved up into support trenches, just in front of the Route de Béthune,
where we stayed for four days cleaning trenches, carrying out general trench repairs, and improving
dug-outs. There were a certain number of deep dug-outs in this sector--our first experience
of them--proof against all but the heaviest shells, though in every other respect a bad invention.
Further behind, at Berthonval Farm, were huge caverns hewn out of the chalk, fitted up with
wire beds, absolutely shell-proof, and having accommodation for about two Companies. The dug-outs
in the front line trenches, however, were mere shelters. Later on we were told to make our
shelters in this area of a uniform pattern in small saps running back from the trenches, and
when men could be spared from other more pressing work, a certain amount of progress was made
in this respect.

The French dug-outs possessed one unique quality; they were decorated as only a Frenchman could
decorate them, with most wonderful designs in pokerwork, which were always objects of the greatest
interest to our visitors.

On March 15th, we were relieved by the 2nd Royal Irish Rifles, and withdrew for four days to
rest billets, which consisted of some French huts partly in the wood, and partly in the open,
just behind Mont St. Eloy. We are afraid we could not have given our predecessors a "billet
clean" certificate in respect of these huts, many of which were a foot or more deep with accumulated
rubbish of every description. There were no baths, and we had to rig up home-made ones with
ground sheets and other means, using the cookers for providing the necessary hot water. We
managed, however, to get clean clothing from time to time from the Staff Captain, Major Wordsworth,
who got together a fascinating crowd of French ladies, and did much useful work as Officer
Commanding Laundry, at Mont St. Eloy.

We were at this time called upon to provide a contribution towards the Brigade Mining Section,
which was re-formed to help the French Miners in the sector, and on March 17th, we had to part
temporarily with Lieut. R. V. Harvey, Corpl. Boot and 12 men, who joined the Brigade Section
under Lieut. Webster, of the Robin Hoods. The arrival of 140 reinforcements the previous day
had, however, swelled our numbers considerably, amongst several old friends in the draft being
Sergt. G. Powell, who shortly became Comp. Sergt.-Major of A Company, Sergts. I. B. Bell, S.
Foster, Collins and Beniston, and Corpl. A. B. North. We thus had a reasonable trench strength
when we relieved the 7th Battalion in the left sub-sector on March 19th.

In this area we always kept to the same sub-sector, relieving as on many other occasions with
the Robin Hoods. The 5th and 6th Battalions shared the right sub-sector, whilst the 138th Brigade
were on our left. Each Company, too, had its own section of trench, finding its own supports.
From right to left they ran in order: D (Capt. Hill), B (Capt. Turner), C (Major G. S. Heathcote),
A (Capt. Vann, who had recently rejoined; during his absence on a course at 3rd Army School,
his place was taken by Capt. Lawson). Battalion Headquarters was in a delightful spot just
under the steep side of the Talus des Zouaves, and well nigh out of reach of everything but
aeroplane bombs. Second Lieut. Cox was Signalling Officer, 2nd Lieut. Simonet, Lewis Gun Officer,
2nd Lieut. Peerless, Grenade Officer, and 2nd Lieut. Marshall, Intelligence Officer. The last-named
was the first Officer in the Battalion to hold that newly created appointment.

The enemy front line was close to ours, in most parts about 70 yards away, but bombing posts
in saps were in several cases not more than 10 to 15 yards apart. Talking and movement in the
front line could often be heard quite plainly, whilst our Bombers in the posts used to indulge
sometimes in lobbing practice, and spent their odd moments in erecting or repairing wire netting
to catch the Boche "potato mashers."

Our two communication trenches running forward--"Boyau Central" and "Avenue Lassale"--though
well cared for and kept up by the French, were almost straight, and hardly traversed at all,
particularly the former, and movement along them was precarious. The fire and support trenches,
bearing such names as "Schiller," "Grange," "Broadmarsh," "Duffield," and "Bertrand," were
in very bad order, and work was at once concentrated in an effort to make a good line of resistance
along "Guerin Trench," practically the support line. Some work was also done on a reserve trench,
known as "Blanchetière." We felt this all the more necessary, as just before we took over from
the French, the Boche had driven them out of their front line, and it seemed quite within the
range of possibility that he might try to make a further advance. Our fears turned out to be
correct, for later he did make an onslaught, though luckily not whilst we were there.

Unfortunately the enemy in capturing the trenches, had secured the shafts of all the French
mines, and had consequently got a good start at various points along the front before the French
could begin again. The result was that practically all the French mines were defensive, and
intended merely to try and blow the Germans, before they could get under our lines. No doubt
each side knew almost exactly where the other side was working, and at what approximate time
any particular mine would go up. These were all shewn to us on a plan, and carefully explained
by the Officer in charge of the French Miners, who were still at work in the sector. Each Company
had a cut-and-dried scheme for carrying out the instant a mine went up in its own or adjoining
sectors. Anticipating the mine, parties were kept available to seize the near lip of the crater
formed, with covering parties of Lewis gunners, riflemen, and bombers to go out on each flank,
and working parties behind them to begin at once to dig a trench to join up the broken front
line across the lip of the crater, wire the front and establish observation posts on the lip.
All this work had to be started the instant the mine was exploded, in order to make certain
that the Boche did not get possession of our lip of the crater, as well as his own. This entailed
constant readiness and considerable anxiety on the part of those holding the front line.

The enemy shewed no special activity, though on several occasions our front and support lines
were badly knocked about, both by shells and trench mortars, which necessitated a vast amount
of repairs, and caused us considerable casualties. In addition to high explosive he now began
to send over for the first time "lachrymatory" gas shells, having a sweet smell and doing little
harm except to make our eyes water. In the later stages of the war, they became, as we shall
see, much more disagreeable.

As it was so difficult in this sector for our Gunners to be able to identify our front line,
we had to mark it with "artillery boards,"--white boards about 3 ft. by 2 ft., marked with
different letters denoting the different sections of the front. These were stuck up by the
Infantry at night, in such a position that they could be seen by our Gunners but be invisible
to the enemy. Whether they were any real help or not is doubtful. Later on we were given a
smaller portable type of board, coloured brown and marked with a black cross, a number of which
were issued to each Battalion, and carried with us as part of our equipment. They were intended
for use in moving warfare to mark our advanced positions, but were eventually discarded as
unsuitable.

We now began seriously to try and harass the enemy with trench mortars, for which purpose Trench
Mortar Batteries were formed. The medium batteries fired a fairly heavy shell with a long tail
(known as "Footballs" or "Toffee Apples"), and the Stokes batteries a light shell, which could
be fired at the rate of 20 or more per minute. We had recently sent 2nd Lieut. Kebblewhite
and five men to a school for a course in this work. It is feared, however, that the first efforts
of the trench mortar experts in the trenches were not fully appreciated. A very nervous Officer
would go to his emplacement, fire off a few shells, and then gracefully, but rapidly retire,
leaving the people on the spot to put up with any retaliation. And we well remember Capt. Lawson
being so annoyed at this going on, that on one occasion the bed plate mysteriously disappeared.
On another occasion an emplacement was made one night with much care on D Company's front,
ready for a big bombardment, but when completed was found to be in full view of six enemy sniper
plates, about 100 yards away!

At sniping we more than held our own, though the enemy were very keen, and used to fire from
steel plates fixed round the mine craters. We were unfortunate in losing at this period Sergt.-Drummer
Clewes, who went home for discharge. He had done much excellent work in charge of the Brigade
Snipers, his own "bag" being stated to amount to considerably over 100. As some recognition
of his good work he was later awarded the D.C.M. His son, Corpl. G. W. Clewes, another excellent
sniper, left at the same time. L.-Corpl. Hagues took over the duties of N.C.O. in charge of
Snipers, and with 2nd Lieut. Marshall, did some splendid work, including the blowing-in of
several loophole plates with Col. Fowler's Elephant Gun, which was now brought into use again.

Marshall's "pet," however, was the "dummy tree" on the Route de Béthune. This was a hollow
tree about 20 feet high, formed of steel casing, and covered with imitation bark. Inside there
were ledges to climb up by, and from it a most excellent view for a very long distance around,
could be obtained. It had been erected by the enemy before they had been driven back.

Another item in the "Intelligence Department" which now came into use, was that extraordinary
instrument known as the "I-Tok," intended for picking up enemy telegraphic and telephonic messages.
We never were supposed to know where its operators performed, and rarely did know, but more
often than not they placed themselves near Battalion Headquarters, and the sheaves of papers
they sent to Brigade were mostly filled with scraps of our own messages. It is doubtful if
much of value was picked up from enemy messages, but they certainly did good in keeping a check
on our own conversations over the telephone, and were regularly used from now onwards. The
"Fullerphone," which was introduced a little later, and largely superseded the ordinary telephone,
was reputed to be capable of transmitting messages in such a way that they could not be picked up.

Our Firework Artistes, too, decided that they ought to have a show, and accordingly arranged
for us one night to have a display of red rockets in the front line. These rockets had been
issued for use for night S.O.S. When the time came for them to be let off, the only visible
result to those behind watching, was one feeble rocket which made a short lob, and fell to
the earth. Only one other went off at all, and it had a great tussle with John Turner, nearly
knocking him through a traverse, and then fizzing itself out in the bottom of the trench.

Another brainy person, one of our German scholars, decided one day to try the result of putting
up a placard to give the Boche the news that the L.15 had been sunk in the Thames. This was
on April 2nd. Two days later a notice was put up opposite B Company's front, which said "Thanks
for your news: you are all mad"--shewing, we thought, a lack of originality on his part. This
was one of the very few occasions upon which we either sent or received a message in this way.

Just about the same time, we had the pleasure of seeing a Hun plane brought down by one of
our own, after a short sharp scrap in mid-air. Our man dived at the Hun and opened with Lewis
gun fire, killing both the pilot and observer. The plane took charge of itself, and after a
brief wild career, crashed near our Battalion Headquarters. It was no sooner down than it was
shelled by the enemy and eventually set on fire. Various useful documents, however, were secured
from it including some maps and a signalling code. The bodies of the pilot, Lieut. Ziemssen,
and the observer were buried at Mont St. Eloy by Padre Hales, who a little later received an
appreciative letter from the pilot's widow.

With these and sundry other excitements, we got through two six-day tours in the line, and
also spent two periods of similar length at our rest huts cleaning, training, and reorganising,
for we were continually losing Officers and men in various ways, and fresh ones were joining.
Amongst the former we lost 2nd Lieuts. G. G. Elliott and Pitt, invalided to England, and the
following Warrant Officers and N.C.O.'s who left us on completion of their term of service:
Regimental Quarter-Master Sergt. Tomlin, Comp. Sergt.-Major Haywood, Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt.
Shelton, and Sergts. Murden, Handford and Kettle. Arrivals included Major Ashwell, Capt. H.
Kirby, Lieut. G. Wright, 2nd Lieut. W. P. Duff, and about 70 men, many of whom were returned
casualties, and in some cases anything but fit to resume active service. Comp. Quarter-Master
Sergt. Dench became Regimental Quarter-Master Sergt., Sergt. Bee Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt.
of B Company, and Sergt. Hotson Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt. of C Company.

We were able to offer very little in the way of amusement just at this period, entertainers
either being more or less non-existent, or somewhat shy. One afternoon, however, we succeeded
in rousing sufficient enthusiasm to organise a boxing contest, one of the very few ever carried
through by the Battalion. In the heavy-weight contest between those two stalwarts, Sergt. Slater
and Corpl. Bryan, the latter retired after the third round with an injured hand. The middle-weight
competition was won by Sergt. L. Green, and the lightweight by Sergt. Attenborough. The same
evening, we managed an impromptu concert in one of the huts.

Our Transport Lines and Quarter-Master's stores during this period were back at Acq, and were
fairly comfortable. Here for the first time we had the experience of taking rations and stores
up to the line on the light railways, already constructed by the French, a system of transport
in which both they and the Germans were much ahead of us. Stores were unloaded from the limbers
at Ecoivres on to flat trucks, each of which was pulled by three mules. The "Decauville Track"
ran past "Berthonval Farm," across the Béthune road, branching there right and left for the
various Battalion dumps, ours being in the Talus des Zouaves, near Battalion Headquarters.
At first, the system did not work well, and there was much confusion, but later it was properly
organised so that rations went up first, and Royal Engineers' stores about midnight. When we
first took over the sector, the French caused much alarm to our men by carrying their stores
to and from the Béthune Road by electric trucks, actually the chassis and platforms of trains
from Paris Plage, to which the bells used for warning pedestrians were still attached. One
brakesman, Alphonse by name, like a wise person, usually went about his own business on arrival
at the Béthune Road Dump, which was often a warm spot. The driver meanwhile got his load to
take back, and anxious as all were who ever had a job of work at that particular spot, to get
it done and be off, he adopted the practice which seemed to us rather foolish, of vigorously
sounding his gong time after time, at the same time shouting "Alphonse, Alphonse," with the
result that all our men vanished "tout-de-suite," leaving him and the errant Alphonse to face
any whizz-bangs which might result. Truly, the French are a remarkable race!

We must, however, congratulate them on that excellent institution in the Vimy sector, Trench
Coffee Shops. Where cooking for the trenches was a matter of some difficulty, as in this sector,
it was a great boon to be able to get such excellent supplies of hot tea and other comforts
as they provided. They were run by the French for some time after our arrival, but later were
taken over by our own Brigade, and put under the care of Capt. E. M. Hacking, who was attached
to Brigade Headquarters. We feel, however, we must attribute to the somewhat casual sanitary
measures adopted by the French, the presence of so many rats in this sector. One often met
them in droves in the trenches, and never before or after did we come across such numbers of
the beasts, and such colossal specimens as we found during our stay in the Vimy trenches.

On April 12th, after a brief inspection near our huts by Major-General Stuart-Wortley, we went
up to the trenches for our last and most eventful tour, which was destined to last eight days.
Owing to falls of snow and rain, the trenches were in a deplorable state, and gumboots were
in great demand, and our only means of keeping the men at all dry. At this time we had no such
luxuries as drying-rooms. Heavy shelling by the enemy during the first three days made things
still more uncomfortable. The real business of the tour, however, began on April 16th, on which
night the French had arranged to blow one mine on our front, and another on the front of the
6th Battalion. Combined with this we had arranged for a small raid to be carried out by Lieut.
A. Bedford and 12 other ranks, who immediately the mines were exploded were to rush forward
round the left edge of our crater, and endeavour to capture any Germans found in a small forward
trench they had recently dug there. The mines were to go up at midnight, and at the same time
our guns and trench mortars were to put down a barrage on the Boche trenches, which was to
be augmented by rifle grenades and showers of grenades thrown from West Spring Throwers, under
the arrangement of our Grenade Officer. Unfortunately, there had evidently been some bad synchronisation
somewhere, for at five minutes before zero two Frenchmen suddenly came rushing towards Bedford,
who was waiting in a communication trench with his party, shouting "Tout-de-suite! Tout-de-suite!"
and almost at the same instant the mines went up. This was very unfortunate, as it enabled
the Boche, who evidently knew all about it, to get their barrage down before our own Gunners,
who were waiting for zero. Bedford at once pushed on with his party with much dash in face
of heavy fire from machine guns, rifles, trench mortars and bombs. He got as far as the advanced
trench, which, however, was held in considerable strength, and finding himself bombed on both
sides, he had to withdraw without getting a prisoner. His party got back alright, but unfortunately
Bedford himself was knocked down by a bomb, and although only slightly wounded had to leave
us, and a few days later was invalided to England. Capt. Hill meanwhile carried out the consolidation
with much success. As soon as the mass of débris, chalk and stones had stopped falling, parties
at once got to work digging a new trench across the crater which was something like 30 yards
wide by 30 feet deep, to connect the broken front line, establishing observation posts and
putting out fresh wire. In spite of intense fire a sufficient trench had been dug by dawn,
and the position made good. Great assistance was rendered by Capt. Gray and the N.C.O.'s of
D Company. Unfortunately Sergt. Markham, after most gallantly controlling the fire of his platoon
for nearly two hours, under very heavy fire, was shot through the head and killed instantly.
Another excellent piece of work was performed by Pvte. E. Dobb, who leapt out of the trench
on seeing a party of Huns trying to get round the crater, and hurled two bombs right amongst
them. If they had had any doubts as to the possibility of getting round, this made up their
minds, and they retired hurriedly.

The following night at midnight, the enemy sprang a mine on the front of our left Company (A),
which caused considerable trouble and heavy loss before the position was finally made good.
A portion of our front line was blown up, and owing to the heavy state of the ground, which
was much water-logged, and to the intense hostile bomb, rifle and machine gun fire, it was
impossible to get a trench dug round our lip of the crater. It was not until three nights after
that the situation was cleared, and our lip of the crater finally occupied, after some of the
most difficult and miserable nights that it was ever our misfortune to experience. During these
days there was little rest for anyone, and much excellent work was done by all ranks. Marshall
carried out some splendid patrols, ably assisted by L.-Corpl. Hinchley, going out nightly through
mud and filth, to ascertain the position around the crater. Duff did almost superhuman work
with bombs and rifle grenades, being at it practically the whole night, for three nights in
succession, and this was only his second tour in the trenches. The Stretcher Bearers too, as
always, did most notable work, particularly Pvtes. Holbery and Thomas, who fetched in our wounded
from the slopes of the crater only a few yards below and in full view of the German sentry
post, whilst Sergts. Deverall and Collins, and L.-Corpl. Ostick also did very gallant work,
and L.-Corpl. J. T. Templeman throughout carried out his work of repairing telephone wires,
with his usual skill and courage. So uncanny was the work of this period, that Lieut. Peerless
was able on one occasion to take deliberate aim, at 30 yards range, at a German digging hard
in the bright moonlight, on the top of a crater.

On April 19th, the French sprang another mine, just to the left of our Battalion front, as
a result of which we got a certain amount of hostile shelling, whilst on the 20th, the enemy
put up another, slightly to our left, which also brought its share of shelling on us. This,
however, was our last, for much to our relief, and at comparatively short notice, the 10th
Cheshires (25th Division) took over our sector on the night of the 20th, and after a weary
trudge over that never-ending duck-board track, we got to Ecoivres by 1 a.m. on the 21st. Having
done full justice to the excellent tea which the Quarter-Master and his followers had ready
for us, we were taken in 'buses to Tincques, where we arrived about 6 a.m., and found that
we were to be billeted partly there, and partly in the neighbouring village of Bethencourt.
We fear we did not present a happy sight at that early hour to the ladies just going to church
on a lovely Good Friday morning. Dawn is not an ideal time for seeing a Battalion at its best,
especially after an exceptionally hard eight days in water-logged trenches. Our total casualties
in the Vimy sector amounted to 17 killed or died of wounds, 69 wounded and five missing.

It was a matter of great regret to us to hear later that the 25th Division suffered very heavily
shortly after we left, when the enemy made a determined attack on the front recently held by
us, and recaptured several trenches.

CHAPTER VII

THE BATTLE OF GOMMECOURT

  April 22nd, 1916.                   July 2nd, 1916.

At the time of our relief in the Vimy sector, plans at General Headquarters must have been
in a forward state for the great offensive, which was to take place later in the year, and
the part which the 46th Division was to play in that offensive must also have been fixed, and
all our preparations now were for operations on a large scale.

We soon got rid of the mud and filth of the trenches, and were fortunate in finding at Tincques
excellent baths run by the 51st Division, of which we made the best possible use, and having
got our clothes and boots into respectable order, and everyone generally tidied up, it was
not long before we were in very good form and fit for anything. Whilst this and other work
connected with the interior economy of the Battalion was going on, some of the Officers had
to spend a rather long day on Easter Monday, April 24th, in making a reconnaissance of the
Corps line between Maroeuil and Mont St. Eloy.

On April 26th, we were inspected by General Shipley, and felt rather pleased with the result
of our efforts at cleaning, for the Battalion looked well, and the General expressed his pleasure
at the smart turnout.

The weather now was improving fast, and though excellent for training, it seemed too lovely
on some of those delightful Spring days, to be spending our time learning how to kill people.
Training included the new form of bayonet fighting, expounded by Officers and others on their
return from the Third Army School, where they had been duly instructed in its art by that expert,
Major Campbell, who always succeeded in his inimitable way in so impressing his hearers, that
they were not likely to forget for many a long day that "two inches well placed" was ample,
and many other similar maxims. Many tips were also given us in bayonet fighting by Sergt.-Major
Curly, one of the travelling Physical Training Instructors, who often came to see us, and made
a great impression on all who ever came under his instruction by his extraordinary keenness
and energy. Eventually we passed on to practise the attack in "waves," and were initiated into
the art of doing this under the shelter of a smoke screen. In this form of attack, the advance
from the moment of leaving the trenches, was carried out behind a smoke barrage, formed by
lighting smoke bombs in the front line trench, and heaving them forward over the parapet. If
they were good, a dense cloud of smoke was produced, and, provided the wind was in the right
direction, it was possible to advance concealed behind the smoke cloud for a considerable distance.
This method depended almost entirely for its success on the strength and direction of the wind.
Later on, when the method was improved in the light of experience gained, smoke grenades fired
from rifles were used, together with smoke shells fired by the artillery, so that a barrage
could be put down at any required point, and, except in very strong winds, the smoke made to
drift across any desired portion of the front of attack. In many of the later attacks this
was done extensively, and was on the whole very successful. We practised at Tincques with hand
smoke bombs only, and found it was not very difficult to keep direction through the smoke,
whilst at the same time we were screened from the vision of the enemy.

Our period of training at this juncture was not a long one, as we were required nearer the
front to begin the many operations necessary to prepare for the big attack. During that short
period, however, we had to change our billets, and moved on April 29th, to Averdoignt, a pretty
little village near St. Pol, where we were well housed and very comfortable. From there we
were called upon to send a detachment for a few weeks' duty at Third Army Headquarters, at
St. Pol, and a composite company consisting of 60 of B Company, and 100 of C under Major G.
S. Heathcote were entrusted with the task. They must have done excellent work and evidently
made a good impression, as a letter of special praise on their smartness and good work, was
sent to the Battalion, on their return by the Army Commander, General Allenby.

We moved by easy steps from this area, which we left on May 6th, marching that day to Rebreuviette,
the following day to Gaudiempré, and on the 10th to Bienvillers. The Transport remained behind
at Gaudiempré, but moved from there on the 11th to La Bazéque Farm, near Humbercamps. This
move brought us into the VII Corps, commanded by Lieut.-General T. D'O. Snow.

Up to the time of our arrival this part of the line was reputed to be almost the quietest on
the whole of the Western Front. It was said that Company Commanders slept in pyjamas, even
when holding the front line, and certainly the personnel of Battalion Headquarters at Foncquevillers,
which was only about 1000 yards from the enemy line, lived there for all the world, as if in
a peaceful country village in England. The dug-outs were made for comfort rather than safety,
and were in many cases artistically decorated with pictures, doubtless got from houses in the
village, and surrounded with elegant little garden plots, which showed evident signs of careful
tending on the part of our predecessors. Together they formed a kind of miniature "Garden City."
This comparative quietness lasted for a considerable time after our arrival; indeed we often
failed to understand why the enemy refrained from shelling, as on many occasions we must have
offered exceptionally favourable targets. Day by day work went on often in full view of the
Hun, and within a range of between one and two miles, and the roads almost daily were a mass
of transport of every kind, moving to and fro in broad daylight, and literally asking for trouble.
There can be no question that the chief reason was a great shortage of ammunition at this time
amongst the Germans, who were under very strict orders as to its conservation, otherwise no
doubt we should have had a very disagreeable time. Doubtless they made careful note of all
our doings, and the fact that something big was going to take place must have been perfectly
obvious to them. That it was so we found afterwards, when in a successful attack, the diary
of the German regiment opposite to us (55th R.I.R.) was captured, and from it we learned that
they had been able to foresee exactly where the attack was coming. This diary was most interesting
reading, as it noted each day their observations of our doings, and the conclusions they drew
from them.

The attack of the 46th Division was to be directed against the German trenches West of Gommecourt,
immediately opposite the village of Foncquevillers. The German trench line here, forming the
Gommecourt salient, was the most Westerly point that they ever held as a permanent line. The
general object of the attack was to cut off this salient. The 56th Division were to attack
on the South, and join hands with our Division East of the village of Gommecourt, and so establish
the left flank of the whole Somme attack.

All the efforts of the troops of our Division who were not actually holding the line, were
concentrated on preparing the Divisional front for the attack. The chief work that we were
concerned with, was the digging out of old communication trenches from Foncquevillers to the
front line, a distance of about 700 yards. There were something like ten or a dozen of these,
several of which were named after our Division. The principal were "Stafford Avenue," "Lincoln
Lane," "Leicester Street," "Nottingham Street," "Derby Dyke," "Roberts Avenue," "Rotten Row,"
"Regent Street," "Raymond Avenue," and "Crawlboys Lane." All these had to be dug out about
two feet below their existing level, making them about seven feet deep, and boarded with trench
grids from end to end, which entailed an enormous amount of work. In addition, the front line
had to be cleared of the barbed wire, with which the unoccupied portions had been filled, support
and reserve trenches had to be prepared for the supporting troops in the attack, forward or
"jumping-off" trenches to be dug at the last moment, for the assaulting troops to attack from,
"Russian saps" to be dug out into No Man's Land to form communication trenches, by knocking
in the thin covering of earth left to hide them, dug-outs to be made for forward Battalion
Headquarters, and several miles of narrow cable trench to be dug about six feet deep for the
protection of telephone wires from forward Headquarters back to Brigade, Division and Artillery
Headquarters. In addition to all this navvying work, large quantities of stores had to be carried
up to forward dumps in the trenches, ready for taking forward if the attack succeeded, shelters
had to be made at various points in side trenches, convenient to get at from communication
trenches, for storing large quantities of bombs of all kinds, small arm ammunition, iron rations,
water, picks, shovels, sandbags, and other Royal Engineers' material likely to be required
to consolidate the ground we hoped to win in the attack. The transport of all these stores,
and of all the necessary Royal Engineers' material, and the work entailed in all these preparations
was colossal, and our first real experience of anything of the kind. It is probable that at
this time the mass and variety of material required in an attack, reached a degree of complication
never equalled either before or after. The German comment on this contained in the diary already
mentioned is of interest. "It must be acknowledged," it states, "that the equipment and preparation
of the English attack were magnificent. The assaulting troops were amply provided with numerous
machine guns, Lewis guns, trench mortars, and storming-ladders. The Officers were provided
with excellent maps, which shewed every German trench system actually named and gave every
detail of our positions. The sketches had been brought up to date with all our latest work,
and the sectors of attack were shewn on a very large scale. Special sketches shewing the objectives
of the different units, also aeroplane photographs were found amongst the captured documents."

During our week at Bienvillers from May 10th to 18th, we were mostly engaged in improving the
defences of the village, and the approach trenches behind Foncquevillers, and in work on cable
trenches. It was here that one or two civilians roused our suspicions, as they insisted on
ploughing and carrying on their cultivations so very near the front, some days working with
grey horses, others with brown, and our Battalion Scouts were told to keep a special eye on
them. Nothing, however, happened so far as we were aware that in any way altered the course
of the war, as a result of our or their action.

On May 19th, we relieved the 5th North Staffords in Foncquevillers, being then in reserve to
our 5th, 6th, and 7th Battalions, who were holding the front line. Our Transport moved the
following day to Souastre.

This was a somewhat uneventful period, and after a few days in the front line mostly spent
in improving trenches, we were relieved on June 5th, by the 4th Leicesters, and marched back
to huts at Humbercamp, preparatory to moving further back for our final training for the "Big
Push." We left there the following night, and arrived in the early hours of June 7th at Le
Souich, where we were destined to spend one of the least enjoyable periods out of the line
that we ever experienced. We were only there for a week, but into that short time was crammed
an immense amount of work both in training, and in cutting wood and making wattle hurdles in
Lucheux Forest. The weather was very wet, and our billets were anything but comfortable. In
our humble opinion the training here was too strenuous. We had to march out four miles to the
training ground, and four miles back in full marching order, practise the attack for two hours
through fields of growing corn three or four feet high soaked with rain, and complete six hours
training daily (not including the marching) with bayonet fighting, physical exercises, and
drill in the fields near our billets. It takes very little of such intensive training to make
men stale.

The form of attack practised was that ordered for the general attack, which we now knew was
to take place about the end of June: this allowed each Battalion a frontage of 250 yards, with
three Companies in front, and one in support, each Company having its four platoons echelonned
in depth at distances of about 50 yards, thus forming four "waves," the men in each wave being
extended to about four paces. In the attack the leading wave was to go through to the final
objective, the other waves occupying and mopping up the trenches passed over by the leading wave.

A full size model of the German lines at Gommecourt that we were to attack, was made near Sus-St.
Leger, the trenches being dug to a depth of about two feet. Tape lines were laid for the men
to form up on, and the whole attack was practised time and again as a "drill," until eventually
we were able to carry it out without losing direction, with a fair amount of success.

We were now stronger in Officers than we had ever been during the campaign, our strength being
38. This was due to the recent arrival of several reinforcements, including Capt. Piggford
and Lieut. Hindley, rejoined, and 2nd Lieuts. H. de C. Martelli, J. B. White, C. J. Wells,
A. G. T. Lomer, T. G. Day, E. A. Huskinson, H. I. Newton, and A. A. Field. We had, however,
lost Capt. Lawson, who left for a tour of duty at home, and Major E. H. Heathcote, Capt. Gray,
and 2nd Lieut. Hodgson invalided to England, also 2nd Lieut. Peerless, who unfortunately got
badly hurt one day by accidentally kicking a live rifle grenade, which had been left lying
on the bombing practice ground. His place as Battalion Grenade Officer was taken by 2nd Lieut.
Duff. Lieut. Simonet had gone to hospital, and was succeeded as Lewis Gun Officer by 2nd Lieut.
Tomlinson. Major G. S. Heathcote was attached to Headquarters, Third Army, and was succeeded
in command of C Company by Capt. Piggford, whilst Major Ashwell became Second-in-Command. We
were not particularly strong in other ranks, something less than 500 being available for the
attack, though we had recently received over 100 reinforcements, including a very good draft
of 61 from the 2nd Sherwood Foresters. Fortunately General Headquarters had taken an excellent
step in laying down that certain Officers and other ranks known as "Battle Details," were now
to be left out of every attack to form a nucleus for carrying on Battalions in the event of
their suffering heavy casualties. This was a very wise precaution, and was adopted by us for
the first time in the attack at Gommecourt.

On June 15th, we marched to Humbercamp, the Transport at the same time moving to lines at La
Bazéque Farm. Capt. H. Kirby was now Transport Officer, having taken over from Capt. Davenport,
who, after being attached for some time to XVII Corps Light Railway Company, Royal Engineers,
went to Brigade Headquarters to learn Staff work. The transport vehicles had somewhat camouflaged
themselves, having been decorated on all sides by wonderful and mystic signs, so as to show
to the initiated to what unit they belonged. If you enquired you would be told that the dark
blue square meant "First Line Transport," the narrow light green oblong edged with white placed
on the left of this square was for the "8th Sherwood Foresters," whilst the square divided
diagonally into red and green, and bordered with white, was the sign of the "46th Division."
It was not an easy matter to arrange all these coloured patches clear of the odds and ends
carried on the different vehicles, and this problem was still exercising the minds of those
in authority nearly up to the Armistice--such an important part did it play in the ultimate
winning of the war!

We now knew that in our Brigade we were to be the Battalion in reserve, the 5th and 7th Battalions
having to carry out the assault, with the 6th Battalion in immediate support. As a consequence
much of the "dirty" work during the final preparations for the attack fell to our lot. This
consisted chiefly in holding the trenches during our preliminary bombardment, and putting up
with such retaliation as the Hun might choose to carry out, and in completing the final arrangements
in our own trenches. After three days at Humbercamp, during which we found large working parties
for digging cable trenches, and putting up screens to conceal the approaches to trenches, we
moved to Foncquevillers on June 18th, and took over part of the left sub-sector from the 5th
Lincolns. An immense amount of work had been done whilst we had been away; the prospects seemed
bright, and our hopes rose. Our Headquarters at Foncquevillers became a centre of attraction
to all and sundry. At every hour of the day and night we had callers, from the Divisional Commander
downwards. The Brigadier and his staff constantly paid us visits. Gunners galore came to sample
what we kept, and incidentally to see about finding observation posts. Royal Engineer gentlemen
requested our help at every turn and corner, usually wanting working parties rather larger
than our total strength, whilst "Tock Emma" Officers were on our doorstep day and night. Indeed
so great was the crowd that at one time we almost had to put Corpl. Cross on to regulate the
queue, and all the time our poor stock of victuals and drinks was getting less and less.

All went well until the afternoon of June 23rd, when there was a violent thunderstorm, which
practically undid the whole of the work we had carried out in the trenches, filling them in
most cases to a depth of two feet or more with mud and water. This area was a difficult one
to drain, and it was impossible to get the water away, so that all hands had to be got on as
soon as possible to man trench pumps, and endeavour to clear the trenches in that way. This
method was extremely laborious, and very little real progress was made, though every available
man was put on to the work. Our poor dug-outs were knee deep in water, and the newly constructed
bomb and other stores were too weak to stand such a storm, and in most cases collapsed. Our
hopes sank, for we realised how much depended on all the careful preparations which had been
made, and that the time left before the attack would be all too short for us to get the damage
repaired.

It is impossible to give anything like an adequate idea of our plight for the next few days.
The artillery scheme, including a six days' bombardment, began on the following day with wire
cutting, causing a certain amount of retaliation, which added to our trouble. This got worse
on the following days, doubtless owing partly to the fact that we dug a new advanced trench.
This was in a deplorable mess, and our men who had to occupy it had a most distressing time.
Casualties rose rapidly, especially in B Company, whose front line trench was enfiladed from
Adinfer Wood. Our carrying parties, who had to take up Royal Engineer material, ammunition
of all sorts, rations and other stores to various points in the line, mostly adopted the very
suitable dress of a sandbag kilt and boots. They were objects of much interest, but it was
the most workmanlike rig-out for our trenches, which in many cases remained knee deep in mud
and water for several days. The carrying had to go on whatever happened, and continued night
and day, assistance being got from the 6th and 7th Battalions, from the Machine Gun Company,
and from the Transport men of all units, parties of whom marched up nightly for the purpose.
With trenches in such a state, it is needless to say that it was impossible for men to hold
the line for many days, and in order to give us a brief respite, we were relieved by the 5th
Battalion on the night of June 27th, and moved back to Pommier.

The nine strenuous days during which we had held the line, had been a severe trial, and where
everyone did so well it is difficult to single out any for special mention, but we feel we
must say how much we owed to Capts. Turner, Vann and Hill, for the excellent way in which they
worked to keep up the spirits of their men during those trying times, and to Sergts. Slater
and Rawding, for the splendid way they kept their men together during several particularly
unpleasant "straffs" by the Boche of our front trenches. During that time, too, much excellent
patrolling was done by Marshall, who unfortunately was wounded one day when taking rather too
great risks in observing the Boche lines, and Martelli, ably helped by L.-Corpl. Hickman, and
Pvte. E. C. Bryan. Our casualties during those nine days included Capt. Vann, slightly wounded,
Lieut. Hindley, who got a nasty splinter wound on the nose, 16 other ranks killed, and 44 wounded.

The chief incident during our two days' stay at Pommier, occurred on the afternoon of June
30th, when the Huns began shelling the church. John Turner, Michie and Harvey, were having
tea in their mess, which was only a few yards from the church, when a 5.9 blew in the end of
the house, practically bursting inside the room where they were sitting. Their escape was little
short of a miracle. John Turner, however, as one would expect, came into Headquarters smiling
and perfectly cool, though covered with dust and blood. Harvey and Michie were a bit shaken,
the former having to go to hospital.

The attack, having been postponed owing to the bad weather, was eventually fixed to take place
on the morning of July 1st, and we left Pommier again the night before to take up our position
at Foncquevillers. Our cookers were taken down to the Western edge of the wood behind the village,
where we were issued with soup and rum on arrival at about 10 p.m. Each man carried in addition
to the following day's ration, his iron ration, and a bacon and bread sandwich. Equipment carried
included 200 rounds small arm ammunition, four sandbags, two Mills grenades, two gas helmets,
haversack, waterproof sheet, and a supply of wire cutters and gloves. The new pattern "tin
hat," with which we had by this time all been supplied, formed a by no means unimportant part
of our dress. It was not a thing of beauty, and took a little while to get used to, but it
proved a good friend to many in the days that were to come.

The attack by the 46th Division was to be carried out with two Brigades, Staffords and Sherwood
Foresters, with the Lincolns and Leicesters in reserve. The 139th Brigade on the left was to
attack between the Northern edge of Gommecourt Wood and the "Little Z," the 5th Battalion being
on the right, and 7th on the left, the 6th Battalion in support, and 8th in Reserve; the German
first, second and third lines were to be captured, and in conjunction with the 56th Division
on the right, our line was to be carried to a point just East of Gommecourt village.

We reached our assembly positions early on the morning of July 1st. Our bombardment opened
at 6.25 a.m. and the discharge of smoke from our front line began an hour later. Under cover
of this the assaulting Battalions moved off from our advanced trenches at 7.30 a.m. A heavy
and accurate barrage was immediately put down on our front and support lines by the enemy,
who were evidently well aware of the extent of the attack and ready for it. The attack by the
139th Brigade is described in the following extracts from the captured diary of the 55th R.I.R.,
the times given being German:--

     "G1. sector 7.30 a.m. An extremely violent bombardment began,
     overwhelming all the trenches and sweeping away the wire.

     8.30 a.m. The enemy's fire lifted. The enemy's attack, which was
     made under cover of gas bombs, was perceived. In consequence of
     the sharp look-out kept by the Commander of the 4th Company, and
     by a Platoon Commander holding the most dangerous portion of the
     line, the shell holes were occupied exactly at the right moment,
     and the attackers were received with hand grenades. The barrage
     fire which had been called for began at once.

     8.40 a.m. Strong hostile skirmishing lines deployed from Pilier
     Farm. They were at once met by heavy machine gun and infantry
     fire. Second Lieut. ----, of the 2nd Company who was holding the
     3rd support line of G1, recognised the superior strength of the
     enemy's attack which was being carried out against No. 4 Company.
     In spite of the intense bombardment he decided to advance with
     his Platoon over the open, and, crossing the second line, reached
     the front line of G1 at the decisive moment to reinforce No. 4
     Company.

     The enemy built up his firing line and attempted to press forward
     with bombers and flame-projectors, but was repulsed everywhere.

     10.30 a.m. The fine spirit of the troops of the 2nd and 4th
     Companies succeeded by their stubborn resistance in annihilating
     the thick charging waves of the English. The ground was covered
     with numbers of dead, and in front of our trench lay quantities
     of English arms and equipment. Gradually the artillery fire
     recommenced on the front line trenches and rose to a pitch of
     extreme violence in the course of the afternoon. The fact that
     all attacks were completely repulsed without the enemy gaining a
     footing in the front line of G1. at any point is due, next to the
     bravery of the troops, to the carefully thought-out arrangements
     of Major ----, to the care of the Officer Commanding No. 4
     Company, and to the energy of the Platoon Commanders."

To resume our own story. At about 8.0 a.m., as the forward trenches were cleared of troops,
we began to move forward, but everywhere found the trenches, which were still in many parts
deep in mud and water, blown in, or blocked by dead bodies, or wounded men trying to make their
way back. Little progress was possible, and there was nothing to be done but to await further
developments.

Although little news came through, it soon became evident that the attack on our front had
not succeeded. We learnt later that, owing to the difficulty experienced by the supporting
waves in getting across our own water-logged trenches, they lost the advantage of the barrage,
and that the smoke cleared long before the bulk of the assaulting troops had got across No
Man's Land. In spite of our long protracted artillery bombardment comparatively little damage
had been done to the German trenches and wire, and our men met with heavy rifle and machine
gun fire, not only from their front, but also from the right flank, where the 137th Brigade
were unable to gain the German front line owing to uncut wire. A few of both the 5th and 7th
Battalions got into the German trenches, but they were soon surrounded and overwhelmed. Some
who were wounded before reaching the wire, crawled for shelter into shell holes, where in several
instances, they were deliberately bombed or shot by the Boche from their trenches. At 3 p.m.
a fresh bombardment was begun by the right Brigade, and continued on our front, with a view
to an attack being made by two Companies of the 6th Battalion, but this was cancelled.

At 5.5 p.m. we were ordered to send out daylight patrols to ascertain the position of affairs
in front. Several volunteers, amongst whom were Corpls. G. Clay, and C. E. Bryan, L.-Corpls.
Moss and Hickman, and Pvtes. Charles, Brett, Adams, and Nightingall, remained out for some
time, and brought back useful information. Meanwhile much gallant work was also being done
by the Stretcher Bearers and others. Pvtes. Holbery, Thomas, Nelson, and Shearman worked continuously
for nearly 36 hours carrying in wounded, often under heavy fire, whilst Comp. Sergt.-Major
T. Powell, who brought in three wounded men by daylight, and Sergt. Grainger, who controlled
his men with great skill during the battle and also rescued a wounded man, are deserving of
special mention.

At 6.10 p.m. we received instructions to take over the original front and advanced trenches
from the 6th, and remnants of the 5th and 7th Battalions, who were there, and this was done.
Later, however, the 5th Lincolns took over the line as they had been ordered to carry out another
attack at midnight, in order to try and rescue some of the 5th and 7th Battalions, who it was
thought were still in the Boche trenches. This, however, was not pressed, and finally A Company
of our Battalion were given the melancholy task of scouring No Man's Land to find the dead
and wounded. Eventually the 5th Lincolns took over from us on the morning of the 2nd July,
and we withdrew the same day to billets at Gaudiempré.

Even as we left Foncquevillers ill-luck pursued us, for a premature burst of a shell from one
of our guns took place close to us as we were formed up behind the wood ready to move off,
and wounded four, fortunately not seriously. Otherwise our casualties during the actual battle
had not been heavy, amounting to three killed, two missing (attached to Trench Mortar Battery)
and 37 wounded.

We cannot look back with anything but regret on that awful battle, when so many lives were
sacrificed apparently to no purpose. July 1st is not our happiest of days--indeed on two successive
occasions it was our most unfortunate day of the year. It must have been quite obvious to the
enemy that this was to be the flank of the Somme attack, although some demonstration was made
by the 37th Division on our left. The enemy, therefore, were able to bring all their guns from
the direction of Adinfer Wood to bear on No Man's Land on our front. Lack of troops had necessitated
the employment of the attacking Battalions in the most exacting fatigues up to the very eve
of the assault. Probably, barely a man had had a full night's sleep for a week prior to the
attack, and there had been scarcely a day or night when rain had not fallen consistently and
heavily, and working parties had not been soaked through to the skin. Those of us, who eight
months later, stood on some of the German concrete machine gun emplacements opposite, commanding
a magnificent field of fire from positions proof against the heaviest shells, saw still the
lines of dead bodies lying in No Man's Land, a tragic and pitiable witness, if witness were
needed, that the failure of the attack was in no measure due to any lack of dash or courage
on the part of our indomitable Infantry. Practically every Officer of the attacking Battalions
was killed or wounded, and a large proportion of the men, and but an insignificant proportion
fell alive into the hands of the enemy.

It was some slight comfort to receive from the Corps Commander an appreciation of our efforts,
which had kept busy a large number of the enemy's best troops, and to know that we had a share
in the success of the great Somme attack, and that our terrible losses were not entirely in vain.

CHAPTER VIII

BELLACOURT

  July 2nd, 1916.                     October 29th, 1916.

We spent one night at Gaudiempré, and on July 3rd, moved a few miles North to a delightful
Camp at Bavincourt, where we made up our minds to have a well-earned rest. The Camp was charmingly
situated, and we were preparing to have it run on model lines, when alas, in the early hours
of July 4th, sudden orders were received to move. We had, however, made the best of our few
hours there, most of us going to an excellent entertainment by the "Barn Owls," the Concert
Party of the 37th Division, which cheered us immensely.

The fighting on the Somme, which had gone successfully for us in many parts, was causing rapid
reorganisation and consequent movement of troops, so that our sudden move was not altogether
surprising. We left Bavincourt on the morning of July 4th, and after a little excitement due
to the shelling of the road, and a terrific thunderstorm, we eventually got settled once more
at Pommier, with the exception of A Company, who went on to Bienvillers. The rest of the Battalion
joined them there on July 7th, except Transport and Quarter-Master's Stores, which moved to
La Cauchie. Our most important work there was the somewhat ticklish procedure on two nights
of carrying up to the Monchy trenches, about two miles North of Foncquevillers, cylinders of
gas to loose off on a suitable occasion. These were drawn at Hannescamp, and for carrying were
fastened to poles, each cylinder requiring two men. Special precautions were taken to ensure
perfect silence, so as not to give the enemy an idea that gas was being installed. Further,
in order to protect the carrying party, in case any of the cylinders got broken by shells or
otherwise on the way up, every man wore his smoke helmet rolled up on his head, ready for instantly
pulling down over his face. Neither steel helmets nor caps were worn on these occasions. As
the cylinders had to be got up to our front line trench, the operation was attended with considerable
risk, but fortune favoured us, and it is believed that the Battalion never suffered a casualty
when engaged on the work, though large parties had to be found on several occasions for a similar
purpose.

We moved on July 10th, by route march to Bellacourt, a village about five miles south-west
of Arras, and giving its name to a sector which was to prove easily the most peaceful and enjoyable
part of the line we ever held. Transport moved to Bailleulval, where they got good lines in
a small orchard, and the Quarter-Master's Stores were comfortably fixed up in billets.

It was from this department that we were first to hear of the activities of our new Divisional
Commander, Major-General W. Thwaites, R.A., who made it a practice of frequently visiting transport
lines at early morning stables. Torrance with his ready wit at once dubbed him "The Mushroom
Picker," an epithet which we were told gave him much pleasure when it reached his ears, but
did not have the least effect upon his early morning visits.

Several new Officers had recently joined from our 3rd Line, including 2nd Lieuts. C. F. Woodward,
F. M. Corry, H. G. Kirby, B. P. Page, W. B. Easterfield, and D. H. Parker. Second Lieut. A.
Bedford also rejoined, and others who arrived shortly afterwards were Lieut. R. Whitton, who
had been Adjutant of the 3rd Line, 2nd Lieuts. Skinner and Moore, back for the second time,
and 2nd Lieuts. C. H. Hicks, D. F. Ranson, L. E. King-Stephens, G. F. Visser, F. D. Byrne,
B. W. Hall, and A. D. Bailey. Comp. Sergt.-Major Haywood rejoined with a draft of 72 reinforcements,
and was appointed Comp. Sergt.-Major of C Company, where Sergt. Leivers had been carrying on
for a short time in place of Comp. Sergt.-Major J. A. Green, who had been invalided to England.

We were thus fairly well off for numbers, when on July 11th, we relieved the Liverpool Scottish
in the left sub-sector of the Brigade sector, this being one of the rare occasions on which
relief was carried out by daylight. The distribution was as follows: Right--"The Willows"--A
Company (Capt. Vann); Centre "The Osiers"--B Company (Capt. Turner); Left--"The Ravine"--C
Company (Capt. Piggford); Reserve--Bretencourt--D Company (Capt. Hill). Battalion Headquarters
was in the "Sunken Road," just in front of Bretencourt, off "Engineer Street." Each Company
had two platoons in the front line and two in support; a system which, besides being more or
less in accordance with Field Service Regulations, worked extremely satisfactorily, for whilst
the front line posts could be held by comparatively few men, either in the line or at the heads
of the various saps running out into No Man's Land, working parties and patrols were found
from the support platoons, and were thus able to get back to the support line on completion
of their task, and rest in comparative comfort.

The frontage allotted to us was a long one, and the front line was thinly held, some of the
posts being as much as 200 yards apart. Frequent visiting patrols were necessary during the
night to prevent any daring Boche from getting into our lines. In the communication trenches,
blocking posts and gates were fixed at various points to hold up the enemy if they did ever
get in and attempt to push forward. To look after the rear portion of these communication trenches
the system of Trench Wardens was instituted during our stay at Bellacourt. These were usually
light duty, or warworn men drawn from the various Battalions, whose duty it was to repair broken
trench grids, relay any that required it, clear falls of earth, and generally look after upkeep.

This sector was reputed to be the quietest on the British Front, and though we had one or two
lively times, there is no doubt that for the period of three-and-a-half months we were there,
it lived up to its reputation. Rumour said that some of our troops had been in the habit of
going out and repairing the barbed wire by daylight! Certainly it was normally extremely peaceful.
The trenches were from 300 to 400 yards apart, and in the region of the Ransart Road on the
right, one could indeed go out for some distance without coming in view of the Boche trenches.
The weather during most of our stay was of the best, and there could be few things more pleasant
than to stroll on a quiet afternoon round some of the communication trenches, e.g., "Dyke Street,"
"Couturelle," and "La Motte," where masses of wild flowers of every kind and of brilliant colours
were in full bloom, and in many parts completely covered the sides of the trenches. Cooking
was normally done out of the trenches, and hot meals were carried up in kettles or food containers
(something in the nature of large thermos flasks) by the Reserve Company billeted at Bretencourt.

We had something of a shock during our first tour in the trenches, and began to suspect the
reports as to the quietness of the sector, for on our second morning the enemy poured over
for nearly an hour, between 4.0 a.m. and 5.0 a.m., showers of heavy trench mortars on to part
of the front line held by B Company. Their aim was very good, several bombs falling right into
the trench and doing considerable damage, whilst Lieut. Lomer's Platoon, which was holding
the part bombarded, had four men killed and nine wounded. One man had to have his foot amputated
by Johnstone, the Medical Officer, in order to be released from a shelter that had been smashed
by the bombs. Sergts. Tanner and Yeomans did splendid work in rescuing the wounded, as did
also Sergt. Bescoby, Pvte. Axon and other Stretcher Bearers. This, however, turned out to be
the only "hate" of its particular kind that the enemy inflicted on us during our stay. Possibly
it was to let us know that he was aware of our recent arrival, and wished to give us a welcome,
but most likely it was what we knew as his "Travelling Circus" which he brought up at certain
times in order to carry out an organised "straff" on a particular piece of the line.

For some time after this, and in fact for most of Our sojourn here, life in the trenches was
of a somewhat humdrum character. There were a few days cf activity now and then, but normally
the enemy was very inoffensive so far as we were concerned. He did, however, raid the 6th Battalion
one night in the right sub-sector, almost completely levelling one of their communication trenches
with heavy trench mortars during the preliminary bombardment, on account of which we had to
stand-to, when back at our rest billets at Bailleulval. On another occasion we had a fidgety
night owing to a gas alarm having been given. This however, proved but another case of "wind."

The work in the trenches was of a normal character, but we welcomed that new article known
as the "A" Frame, consisting as its name indicates of framing shaped like the letter A. This
was the best form of support for trench revetment that we ever had, and from this time onwards
was used almost universally. A suggestion of this exact form of framing had been made by Col.
Blackwall as early as November 1915. and submitted to higher authorities, who turned it down
as unsuitable.

A further great advance was made by us here in the provision of deep dug-outs, for which the
chalk soil was eminently adapted. Excellent plans were drawn out by Major Zeller, commanding
the Field Company attached to our Brigade, for complete systems of these dug-outs to be made
in the support line, and a special Brigade Dug-out Company was formed for this purpose, to
which we contributed, besides a number of men, 2nd Lieuts. Moore and Powell. Great progress
was made with the work, and before we left the sector a large number had been finished, and
fitted up with wire beds on wooden framework in two tiers, with rifle racks and other etceteras.
The organisation of this work was one of the first tasks of the new Brigade Major, Capt. W.
P. Buckley, D.S.O., of the Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry, who had succeeded Major Neilson,
when the latter left to take up a higher appointment. In Major Neilson we lost one who was
always ready to help and advise on every possible occasion, and though it was with the greatest
regret that we said goodbye to him, it was a great pleasure to know that his hard work had
brought its reward.

At this period after doing six days in the front line, we spent six days in Brigade Reserve
at Bellacourt, where three Companies were in billets, and usually found large parties for the
Royal Engineers for working in trenches and dug-outs, and one Company provided garrisons for
the four posts in front of the village, "Starfish," "Boundary," "Burnt Farm" and "Orchard."
After a further six days in the front line we went back for six days to Bailleulval, where
we were able to have our periodical clean up, do a little training, and generally enjoy life
for a brief space. We relieved always with the 7th Battalion, and held the left of the Brigade
sector, which remained the same as originally taken over, except that we gave up the "Willows"
on the right and took over "Epsom" on the left.

Our billets at Bailleulval were fairly comfortable, and were constantly improved, under the
guiding hand of Major Wordsworth, the Staff Captain. We had a splendid parade ground on the
high land behind the village, a good Canteen, a Sergeants' Mess, a Corporals' Mess, home-made
Russian baths erected with much skill by our own Pioneers, and frequent visits from the "Whizz-bangs,"
who gave us excellent programmes. We played cricket, football, both soccer and rugger; we had
Officers' Riding Classes, which were a source of much interest not to say amusement, to the
onlookers, and we got good dinners at the well-known "Seven Sisters," in the neighbouring village
of Basseux. The weather for the most part was delightful, and life was extremely pleasant.

Major-General Thwaites twice inspected us, and all who were in the Battalion during the time
he reigned at Division will remember what an inspection by him entailed! Our best salute proved
very inadequate on the first occasion, and the Commanding Officer was requested, after putting
himself and his horse in front of the centre of the Battalion, to do it again! Capt. Turner,
too, who was acting Second-in-Command, got a polite enquiry as to what he was doing with his
horse! Poor "Strawberry" was apparently rather upset over the fixing of bayonets! As a rule,
however, we believe our efforts to make a good show did not pass unnoticed, though a good deal
that was uncomplimentary was said. On his second inspection Lieut.-General Snow, the Corps
Commander, was with him, and appeared to be quite satisfied with the turnout.

Training at this time, so far as the Battalion was concerned, consisted only of such general
work as could be done in the few days we spent periodically at Bailleulval. The Divisional
School, however, was in full going order, Regimental Sergt.-Major Mounteney doing duty there
for a time, and in addition a Brigade School was formed at Basseux, to which Major Ashwell
went as Commandant and expounded the art of war to young Subalterns and others, taking with
him 2nd Lieut. Hopkinson as his Adjutant. Whilst Major Ashwell was away, Capt. Turner took
over the duties of Second-in-Command, leaving B Company in the capable hands of Lieut. G. Wright.
At an Assault Competition arranged by the Brigade School on October 12th, we almost swept the
board, winning five out of eight events--Physical Drill, Bayonet Fighting, Bombing, Relay Race,
and Obstacle Race--so we were well satisfied with our efforts, and the training work that was
being done. By this time the whole Battalion had been fitted out with the short rifle, the
last of the old long rifles being handed to Ordnance on September 26th.

A new "toy" that was issued in these days was that horrible thing known as the "Lewis Gun Hand
Cart." Tomlinson had some most entertaining experiences in trying to get mules to pull these
"handcarts," but the mules usually found it more interesting to try and turn round to see what
extraordinary things on wheels they were now being insulted by being asked to pull, or in going
off at breakneck speeds to try and get rid of them. These carts were never popular, and never
a success, and gradually, by being carefully "left" by the roadside or some other convenient
spots, they were eventually disposed of.

The most notable event during this period was undoubtedly Vann's raid, the first really successful
raid carried out by the Battalion. This took place on the night of September 21/22nd, and was
carried out by Capt. Vann, with practically the whole of his (A) Company. In order to illustrate
the thorough manner in which the scheme was devised and carried out, the story is given in
some detail.

The point to be raided was a short sap known as "Italy Sap," running out from the Boche front
line about 300 yards away. The wire protecting the sap was cut during the afternoon of September
21st by our 2-inch trench mortars, and other gaps were cut on another part of the front further
North, partly as a "blind" and partly for use in a future operation. In order to verify that
the gaps were properly cut, a wire patrol under L.-Corpl. Hickman went out at 8.0 p.m. and
reported that the gaps were good, and that the ammonal tubes which the Royal Engineers had
in readiness to take out and blow gaps with were not required. Frequent bursts were fired by
our machine guns on to the gaps to prevent them being repaired by the enemy before the raiding
party got there. At 11.15 p.m., the wire patrol again went out and laid tapes from the gaps
back to "Cavendish Sap" in our own front line to guide the raiding party across No Man's Land.
The party was divided up into several smaller parties, commanded respectively by Lieut. Martelli,
2nd Lieuts. Duff, White, and Hall, and Comp. Sergt.-Major G. Powell. In addition there were
two teams of Brigade machine gunners to guard the flanks, and seven sappers to blow up dug-outs.
The total of the party was five Officers, and 136 other ranks. All identification marks, badges,
letters, etc., had been removed from all members of the raiding party, and faces, hands and
bayonets were blackened. Smoke helmets were carried in the pocket, and gas and phosphorus bombs
were taken for clearing dug-outs, together with a number of flashlights and torches. At 12.15
am the enemy trenches in the region of the area to be raided were bombarded by 18 pounders,
4.5 and 6-inch howitzers, 2-inch trench mortars, and 3-inch Stokes mortars. The raiding party
guided by the tapes, got as close up to the barrage as possible, and as soon as it lifted at
12.28 a.m., went through the gaps and into the enemy trenches. One German who was met was at
once bayoneted. Several dug-outs were bombed, and in some cases set on fire, one being blown
up by the Royal Engineers with an ammonal tube. An enemy machine gun which opened fire from
the right was immediately silenced by our Lewis and machine guns. The time fixed for the return
of the party was 12.50 a.m. and it was only in the last minute or so that the main object of
the raid, a prisoner, was secured. Most of the dug-outs were empty, but eventually Vann found
one which contained some Boches. These he at once ordered to come out. Two came up with bayonets
fixed, one of whom was at once shot dead by Vann, and the other wounded. They were followed
by four others, including a stretcher bearer, who came out with hands up shouting "Kamerad!"
"Kamerad!" They were at once hustled out of the trench with the scantiest of ceremony and brought
back to our lines. Immediately after this, Vann ordered his bugler to sound the recall signal,
and at the same instant the prearranged signal of six red rockets went up at Battalion Headquarters.
During the last ten minutes of the raid the enemy had surrounded the occupied portion of the
trenches with red lights and their artillery had begun to shell their front line and "Italy
Sap," but did the party little harm, and every man got back to our trenches, the only casualties
being eight men wounded. The net result of the raid was that five Germans were killed by the
raiding party, and five taken prisoners, including one wounded, apart from any casualties inflicted
by our bombardments. It is worth noting that a bombardment of the area around the blind gap
was also carried out, and that the barrage there "lifted" before that on the gaps where the
raid was actually to take place. This was undoubtedly of great assistance to the raiding party
in diverting the enemy's attention, and in causing his barrage to come down first in No Man's
Land opposite the blind gap, where we had no troops whatever. The number of rounds used to
cut the wire was 670, fired by seven 2-inch trench mortars.

Many messages of congratulation were received on the success of the raid, including one from
the Corps Commander. It was a great pleasure to all when it was known shortly afterwards, that
Vann, whose gallantry knew no bounds, had been given a bar to his M.C., and that the M.C. had
been awarded to Duff, who had already done most admirable work at Vimy, and was one of the
pluckiest Officers the Battalion ever had. Vann was subsequently awarded the French Croix-de-Guerre.

Much of the success of the raid was undoubtedly due to the excellent patrolling which had been
done by Martelli and his Scouts, L.-Corpl. Hickman, and Pvtes. Bambrook and Haslam, who throughout
worked with the greatest skill, and left nothing undone to ensure that all was in order. Many
gallant deeds too, were performed in the enemy trenches. Pvte. Chappel, a leading bayonet man
successfully shewed one Boche the proper way of making the point; Pvte. Walsh wanted to go
on to the German second line when he was unable to find any to kill where he was; Drummer Heath
shewed great bravery and devotion as he had often done on previous occasions, in carrying messages;
Drummer A. L. Smith, though wounded, remained at his post to the last to sound the recall signal;
while great gallantry was also shewn by Lieut. Martelli, Comp. Sergt.-Major G. Powell, Sergt.
Slater, Corpl. Carrier, and Pvte. Needham. The raiding party had a special little dinner of
their own a few days after the raid at the canteen at Bailleulval.

There is but little to record of our other doings in the trenches. We recall efforts being
made to have "Daily Trench Exercises" carried out, such as physical jerks, bomb throwing, and
rifle practice, but the orders issued on the subject were, we fear, honoured rather in the
breach than the observance! We did, however, appreciate the opportunity given us in these days
of sending Officers from time to time to our Gunner friends to learn something of the elements
of artillery work, and though these visits were very short, it was certainly not the fault
of the Gunners if we were not wiser for the instruction they gave us. We on our part were also
called upon to do some instructing, having attached to us at various times Lieut.-Col. Smeathman
of the Hertfordshire Regiment, Lieut. Haslam (afterwards killed) and 12 men of the Artists'
Rifles, and an Officer and 14 men of the 1st King's Dragoon Guards, to all of whom we imparted
as much of our knowledge of trench warfare as was possible during the short time they were with us.

As time wore on changes took place. Vann, who had once more been slightly wounded during his
raid and was not very fit, went to the Senior Officers' Course at Aldershot, and was succeeded
in command of A Company by Capt. E. M. Hacking. Capt. Davenport after a week's tour in the
trenches for instruction left to attend the Staff Course at Cambridge. Hicks, who was afterwards
killed, went to the Trench Mortar Battery, E. A. Huskinson to the 138th Brigade to learn Staff
duties, Easterfield to the Machine Gun Corps, where he won the M.C., Corry (who later died
of wounds) and Newton to the Royal Flying Corps, Woodward to the "Whizz-bangs," and Capt. A.
Hacking (from Brigade Headquarters), Field, Parker and Wells were invalided to England. Jones,
who followed Marshall as Intelligence Officer, got wounded on patrol, and was succeeded by
Martelli. Under the new scheme of sending home as Instructors, Warrant Officers and N.C.O.'s
who were feeling the strain of long periods of active service, we lost Comp. Sergt.-Major Chappell,
and Sergts. L. Bell, Shore and Wells. Comp. Quarter-Master-Sergt. Hotson then became Comp.
Sergt.-Major of B Company, and Sergt. Deverall, Comp. Quarter-Master-Sergt. of C Company. Our
casualties during the period amounted to seven killed, and 37 wounded. Against these losses
we were joined by two Officers, 2nd Lieuts. J. M. Johnston, and E. W. Warner, and about 80
men, including 40 from No. 4 Entrenching Battalion.

All this time the Somme fighting had been going on, more or less successfully, and we wondered
time and again when our turn would come to go and take part in it. Divisions around us were
moved backwards and forwards, to and from the fighting area, with almost lightning rapidity,
and still we were left in this peaceful part with few cares, and almost began to think we had
been forgotten, or that the office boy had scratched our name off the list of Divisions in
France! But it was apparently not so, for on October 20th, we got news of our approaching move
to a training area, preparatory, no doubt, to taking a more active part in the fighting. Eventually,
on October 29th, we were relieved by the 16th Manchesters and said goodbye to that delightful
area where we had such good times, and to which we shall always look back with the greatest
possible pleasure.

CHAPTER IX

THE CAPTURE OF GOMMECOURT

  October 29th, 1916.                 March 17th, 1917.

Having spent the afternoon of October 29th in packing up, we left Bailleulval about dusk, and
late the same evening arrived at Warluzel, where we spent the night in indifferent billets.
We proceeded the following day to our old quarters at Le Souich, where we rested for 24 hours,
continuing the march on November 1st to Neuvillette, and on November 3rd, to our final destination
Maison Ponthieu, in the Third Army (St. Riquier) training area, having completed a march of
something like 40 miles.

Considering that this area had been used for training for some considerable time, we cannot
say that we found the billets of the best or well provided with those comforts, which one might
reasonably expect for troops out of the line preparing to take part in an offensive. Our energies
at first were therefore concentrated on trying to make ourselves comfortable, and a considerable
time was spent in carrying out improvements, making bathing arrangements, cookhouses, canteen
and reading rooms. Rightly or wrongly we were inclined to think that we were unlucky with regard
to billets, as we so often found ourselves scavenging and cleaning up other people's refuse.
Doubtless every other unit thought the same. In the way of entertainments we had little or
nothing, and Maison Ponthieu itself boasted nothing more than one or two estaminets. Auxi-le-Château,
the home of the Third Army Training School, had a few shops and was rather more lively, while,
for those who could get there, St. Riquier was quite interesting, and the battlefield of Crécy
was not far off. Abbeville some distance away, was patronised only by a few lucky ones.

We stayed in this area for nearly three weeks, and trained hard with a view to taking part
in the Somme offensive. The chief points were to make everyone fit, and to practise formations
for open warfare. For the former, recreation of every kind and for all ranks was an essential
part of the programme, though we were inclined to think that perhaps a little too much compulsion
was added to this part of the scheme. Inter-platoon football matches were a prominent part
of the recreational training, and created a great deal of genuine interest and amusement. There
were also inter-battalion football matches in the Division, in which we started well by beating
the 7th Battalion, but were hopelessly defeated by the 5th Battalion at Noyelle on November
18th, by eight goals to nil. One of the most entertaining matches was that which took place
at Maison Ponthieu, between Divisional Headquarters and Brigade Headquarters. When the Divisional
goal was threatened S.O.S. rockets were sent up and smoke bombs let off, which to the onlookers,
seemed rather to baffle the defending goalkeeper, who was none other than the Assistant Provost
Marshal, Major Newbold! Preliminary contests held to select representatives for the Divisional
Boxing Championship, which unfortunately did not materialise, were won by Sergt. Slater, Sergt.
Attenborough, Signaller Gearney, and Pvte. Hall.

For open warfare we practised mostly the attack, beginning with artillery formation. Those
who did know something of it had by now grown very rusty, after so many months in trenches,
whilst many Officers and men in the Battalion at this time, had had practically no training
at all in this kind of warfare, so that much work was required in the simple practices of shaking
out into artillery formation, lines of companies, half-companies, platoons or sections, and
eventually extending for the final stages of the attack leading up to the assault. The other
main feature of the training, was practice in night marching on a compass bearing and subsequent
deployment for attack.

On the whole we must confess we felt that the training was rather overdone. We had to put in
many hours daily, and the march to the training ground at Yvrencheux and back, some six miles
in all, was to say the least of it somewhat tedious. We were besides, most unfortunate with
regard to weather, which was very unpleasant most of the time, and we were hardly sorry when
our time came to leave the area. We were not, however, required to take part in the Somme fighting,
as this had by now more or less worn itself out. From what we read and heard from troops, who
came out of it, of the appalling condition of the ground and the impossibility of making any
further progress during the Winter, we were not surprised or sorry that there was no need for
us in that direction. Our lot was to return once more to our old trenches at Foncquevillers.

Changes in personnel during this period were mostly in Officers. Major Ashwell had rejoined
and resumed his duties as Second-in-Command; Major Lane also rejoined after nearly 18 months
in England, as a result of his wound at Kemmel, and took over A Company from Capt. E. M. Hacking.
A further addition was Lieut. Simonet, who had by some means managed to get the Hospital Authorities
to pass him fit again for general service. We also had a small draft of 32 men. On the other
hand we had to part with six Officers at extremely short notice to the 12th Rifle Brigade and
King's Royal Rifle Corps which had lost very heavily in the Somme fighting, and sent 2nd Lieuts.
Ranson, Hall (who later won the M.C.), Visser, H. G. Kirby, Byrne and Bailey (afterwards killed).
Second Lieut. Cox also left us to join the Signal Company of the 14th Division, his place as
Signalling Officer being taken by Lieut. Warner. For good work on a subsequent occasion Cox
was awarded the M.C. Lieut. Martelli was still Intelligence Officer, Lieut. White, Grenade
Officer, and Lieut. Tomlinson, Lewis Gun Officer.

We went by easy stages back to the line, leaving Maison Ponthieu on November 22nd, and proceeding
to Bealcourt, and the following day to Neuvillette. The chief item of interest in our two days'
stay there, was a revolver shooting match between teams of Officers from our own and the 7th
Battalion, in which we were badly beaten. On November 25th, we marched to Humbercourt on a
pouring wet morning, arriving there about mid-day drenched to the skin. Here we stayed for
nearly a fortnight, training and cutting wood in Lucheux Forest. The weather was wet and cold,
and as the village lay in a hollow, we got the full benefit of all the rain, and consequent
flooded streams. On November 30th, we took part in a Divisional cross-country run, a part of
the programme left over from the St. Riquier area. The distance was two and three-quarter miles,
and we felt quite pleased to finish 6th out of the 13 Battalions running, our pleasure knowing
no bounds at seeing C. B. Johnstone and F. Torrance finish well within the time limit, happy
if breathless.

On December 2nd, a Brigade Ceremonial Parade was held at Sus-St. Leger, where we were inspected
by Major-General Thwaites. It was a bitterly cold day, but on the whole the show passed off
well. It was perhaps aided a little by the fog, which covered one or two of our more intricate
and unconventional movements rather successfully.

On the following day we took part in what was probably one of the most interesting football
matches in the Battalion's history, when a team of Officers played one from the 7th Battalion,
and beat them one-nil after a great tussle.

It was at Humbercourt that Sergt. "Sammy" Foster played an important part in trying to make
us all "gas proof." With much success he made up a gas chamber in the village out of the shed
for the "Pompe à incendie," where all ranks of the Battalion were fitted with the new small
box respirator, which had just arrived. This proved to be much the most satisfactory form of
gas mask we ever had, and continued in general use up to the end of the war.

We left Humbercourt on December 6th, and the same day went into Brigade Reserve, in the Foncquevillers
sector, the 46th Division having taken over this portion of the line from the 49th Division.
The sector was now fairly quiet, everyone having more or less gone into winter quarters. Our
rest billets and Transport Lines were at Souastre, where, considering all things, we were fairly
comfortable. There were good baths under the control of one of those celebrated Town Majors,
of whom so much has been heard, a Y.M.C.A. hut, and a new form of entertainment in the shape
of a Cinema, which our Division had recently added to its institutions. The Divisional "Whizz-bangs"
were still showing, but were rather under a cloud, although that great actor subaltern from
the Battalion, Moffat Johnston, gave them a helping hand for a short time. Being "out to soldier,"
however, he preferred the front line, and very soon came back to us.

When in Divisional Reserve all companies were back at Souastre, and carried out a little training
in addition to the usual refitting and cleaning. Parties were also generally provided for Town
Major's fatigues. When in Brigade Reserve two companies were at Souastre, and two at Foncquevillers,
the latter finding garrisons for posts on the Eastern edge of the village, and at "Fort Dick,"
between Foncquevillers and Hébuterne.

When in the line we held the left sub-sector, relieving with the 7th Battalion, the right company
front having its right on the Foncquevillers-Gommecourt Road, the centre company being disposed
about "Lincoln Lane," and the left company front running from "Roberts Avenue" to the Brayelle
Road. Companies holding the line, had two or three platoons in the front line, and the remainder
in support. The support Company occupied the dug-outs in "Sniper's Square."

The trenches throughout this period were in an appalling state, though efforts had been made
to improve them by the 49th Division, who certainly left Roberts Avenue well revetted, and
with a good floor of trench grids. For the most part, however, they were deep in mud, and in
a deplorable condition, and "gumboots thigh" were in great demand. Dug-outs were of the poorest,
and life in the trenches was not pleasant. Efforts were made to improve matters during our
stay and the Royal Engineers and Monmouths did a great deal of work, helped by large parties
from all Battalions, but improvement was very slow.

Fortunately the trenches were no great distance from the village, where Company cooks had their
cookers, whilst the Battalion was in the line, so that hot meals were sent up regularly, and
included a hot supper issued generally about midnight, the meals being mostly carried up by
the Support Company. During the latter part of January and beginning of February, we had very
hard frosts and much snow, and the carrying parties had a difficult task in walking on the
slippery roads and trench grids, but this was overcome to a great extent by the use of sandbags
tied over the boots. It was perhaps a somewhat expensive method to employ with sandbags costing
something like a shilling each, but they served the purpose very well, and were in great demand
in consequence. A drying-room was established at Battalion Headquarters in the village, in
a large cellar, fitted with double-tier wire beds, stoves, and braziers. A supply of blankets
was also available, so that the men who had been on patrol, or had got wet through, could come
down from the line and get their wet clothes dried and a good rest and sleep in comfort. Inter-Battalion
reliefs were carried out every four days, whilst Companies were able to relieve their men in
the front line every 48 hours, or, when the weather was extremely bad, every 24 hours, by taking
up the men from the support line. By this means, the time any particular man was actually in
the front line was reduced to the lowest possible limit. During December and January, reliefs
were carried out by daylight, usually beginning immediately after breakfast, and being completed
by about noon. This system not only enabled the incomers to settle down in the trenches before
night, but also gave the relieved Battalion four complete nights out, a system which was very
much appreciated. At the end of January we changed to night reliefs. The main artery for traffic
was the Foncquevillers-Souastre Road, and although it was usually fairly quiet, we sometimes
astonished ourselves at the pace we made along it on relief nights, and most of us were glad
when we got over the crest into Souastre.

Martelli and his Scouts and many others did some very good patrols, but on some nights when
the moon was bright, and the ground covered with snow, this work was not easy. Long white nightshirts
complete with hoods were tried, but not considered very suitable, as they looked quite dark
against the white snow, and on the whole were not a success.

Though normally quiet the sector was occasionally trench mortared and shelled fairly heavily,
most attention being paid to the front line about Roberts Avenue and Lincoln Lane, the Gommecourt
Road, the Orchard in front of the village, where our heavy trench mortars, familiarly known
as "Flying Pigs", had their quarters, and the village itself. It was in connection with one
of these bombardments that the I-Tok machine professed to have some success. By some means
a Boche map had been secured shewing the areas into which our front was divided for the purpose
of "shoots", and if the I-Tok picked up messages from which it was inferred that a shoot over
a particular area was likely to take place, the information was at once passed on to the Battalion
concerned. On one occasion when such information was received, no sooner were the men cleared
of the area than it was indeed shelled! It may have been an accident of course, but the I-Tok
personnel took the credit, which we hope was deserved.

One night, when the 7th Battalion were in the line, they were raided after a very heavy bombardment,
in which they suffered several casualties. The following day the Officer Commanding that Battalion
sent us a kind message of appreciation of the prompt way in which Capt. Turner and B Company,
who were in support in Foncquevillers, had turned out and stood by ready to help. Fortunately
their services were not required.

The most unpleasant experience we ourselves had was on February 16th, when we relieved the
7th Battalion for the last time in this sector. The relief itself was carried out under difficulties,
owing to a certain amount of gas shelling, but later on the Hun sent over perfect showers of
gas bombs, and absolutely deluged the front and support lines, whilst he also fired a considerable
number of gas shells into the village. It is estimated that in all between 500 and 600 were
put over, mostly filled with phosgene. It was our first experience of any real gas shell bombardment,
and partly owing to this and partly to the high concentration of the gas used we suffered heavy
casualties, four men being killed and 24 wounded.

Christmas Day, 1916, was spent in the line, and passed off very peacefully without anything
untoward happening. We were not able to get our Christmas dinners until early in the New Year,
when we were back at Souastre, and made the most of all the good things that had been sent
out by kind friends at home. Each Company enjoyed a most sumptuous dinner, followed by a splendid
entertainment provided by local talent, speeches, and so on.

The Battalion front remained unchanged until early in February, when we extended Northwards
to include the "Crawlboys Lane" area, then held by the 138th Brigade.

About the same time we had Companies of the 2/5th, 2/8th, and 2/11th Battalions London Regiment
with us for instruction, and a fine lot of men they were. Our difficulty was in knowing where
to put them, for whereas we were about 80 per Company, they came out with their full complement
of 250. One dreaded on occasions what might happen if the enemy suddenly decided to shell the
trenches they held, for in some parts they were almost like the proverbial sardines. They came
out fully equipped, with mobilisation stores made up to completion. Rumour says that when they
had finished their instruction with us they were wiser not only in trench routine, but also
in their Quarter-Master's Department!

This period saw several important changes in personnel. With great regret we had to part with
Major Ashwell, who left to take up the duties of Commandant of the Divisional School. This
post, however, he only held for a brief space, as his excellent services throughout the war
were very soon rewarded by his appointment to command first the 5th, and shortly afterwards
the 6th Battalion. He was succeeded as Second-in-Command by Major Lane. Capt. E. M. Hacking,
who commanded A Company for a time, was appointed Railhead Disbursing Officer, and handed over
his duties to Lieut. Andrews. Capt. Turner stuck to B Company, but during periods of absence
of the Commanding Officer and Major Lane, acted as Second-in-Command, leaving Lieut. G. Wright
to look after his Company. Capt. Piggford, after struggling on for some time, although very
unfit, eventually had to go down sick, and shortly afterwards was appointed Divisional Claims
Officer, to which he later added the duties of Divisional Burials Officer. When he left, C
Company was handed over to Lieut. Abrams. Capt. Hill, after a long and successful period in
command of D Company, also had to leave owing to sickness, and was succeeded by Lieut. Simonet.
In 2nd Lieut. King-Stephens we lost a very gallant Officer, and a great favourite. He was killed
one morning when returning from wiring. The fog which had been so helpful for the purpose,
cleared rather suddenly and a Boche sniper picked him off just as he was getting back to the
trench. Reinforcement Officers who joined during the period were 2nd Lieuts. C. H. S. Stephenson,
A. E. Geary, and J. E. Mitchell. So far as other ranks were concerned there were now no discharges
as the Military Service Act, which was in force, gave to very few the opportunity of getting
home. We lost, however, two excellent Comp. Sergt.-Majors, G. Powell and Hotson, who went to
England to train for commissions, and were shortly followed by Comp. Sergt.-Major T. Powell.
George Powell was destined one day to be awarded the D.S.O., whilst Hotson unfortunately met
his fate in Italy. Sergts. Slater and Rawding, and Comp. Quarter-Master Sergt. Deverall, then
became Comp. Sergt.-Majors of A, B, and D Companies respectively. Our casualties in the line
during this period were not heavy, amounting to seven killed and 47 wounded. Reinforcements
who joined totalled 243, and included several men from the Sherwood Rangers Yeomanry.

On February 19th, after handing over our portion of the front line to Battalions of the 138th
Brigade, we marched back to St. Amand.

We now entered upon what turned out to be one of the most interesting periods in the history
of the Battalion. The idea at the moment was that the 46th Division should take part in an
early offensive against Beaurains, just south of Arras, and the immediate purpose of our relief
was to withdraw to the Sus-St. Leger area and dig a model of the front to be attacked, ready
for one of the other Brigades of the Division to practise over. With this object we moved back
on February 20th, to Ivergny, where we spent the first few days refitting and reorganising.
The latter was now becoming of great moment, for important changes were taking place. To begin
with the Battalion Grenade Platoon, that picked body of specially trained Bombers, to which
it was everyone's ambition to belong, ceased to exist, and the personnel rejoined their Companies,
in which from this time onward each platoon had its own section of Bombers. This was only a
preliminary to the absolute reorganisation of the platoon, which was now rightly coming into
its own, and regarded as the most important tactical fighting unit. We had already been lectured
at Souastre by Lieut.-General Sir Ivor Maxse, our Corps Commander, and later Director General
of Training, also by Major-General Thwaites, on the new organisation of the platoon, which
was now to consist of four specialist sections: (1) Riflemen, (2) Bombers, (3) Rifle Grenadiers,
(4) Lewis Gunners. We now began the preliminaries of this new organisation, which was to remain
practically unchanged for the rest of the war. The Signallers were also reorganised under Lieut.
Warner, and divided into "Battalion" and "Company" Signallers.

