About the same time, the king's express command engaged Dryden in a work, which may be considered
as a sort of illustration of the doctrines laid down in the "Vindication of the Duke of Guise."
It was the translation of Maimbourg's "History of the League," expressly composed to draw a
parallel between the Huguenots of France and the Leaguers, as both equal enemies of the monarchy.
This comparison was easily transferred to the sectaries of England, and the association proposed
by Shaftesbury. The work was published with unusual solemnity of title-page and frontispiece;
the former declaring that the translation was made by his Majesty's command; the latter representing
Charles on his throne, surrounded by emblems expressive of hereditary and indefeasible right.[39]
The dedication to the king contains sentiments which savour strongly of party violence, and
even ferocity. The forgiving disposition of the king is, according to the dedicator, the encouragement
of the conspirators. Like Antaeus they rise refreshed from a simple overthrow. "These sons
of earth are never to be trusted in their mother element; they must be hoisted into the air,
and strangled." Thus exasperated were the most gentle tempers in these times of doubt and peril.
The rigorous tone adopted, confirms the opinion of those historians who observe, that, after
the discovery of the Rye-house Plot, Charles was fretted out of his usual debonair ease, and
became more morose and severe than had been hitherto thought consistent with his disposition.

This translation was to be the last service which Dryden was to render his good-humoured, selfish,
and thoughtless patron. While the laureate was preparing for the stage the opera of "Albion
and Albanius," intended to solemnise the triumph of Charles over the Whigs, or, as the author
expressed it, the double restoration of his sacred Majesty, the king died of an apoplexy upon
the 6th February 1684-5. His death opened to many, and to Dryden among others, new hopes, and
new prospects, which were, in his instance, doomed to terminate in disappointment and disgrace.
We may therefore pause, and review the private life of the poet during the period which has
occupied our last Sections.

The vigour and rapidity with which Dryden poured forth his animated satire, plainly intimates,
that his mind was pleased with the exercise of that formidable power. It was more easy for
him, he has himself told us, to write with severity, than with forbearance; and indeed, where
is the expert swordsman, who does not delight in the flourish of his weapon? Neither could
this self-complacent feeling be much allayed, by the vague and abusive ribaldry with which
his satire was repaid. This was natural to the controversy, was no more than he expected and
was easily retorted with terrible interest. "As for knave," says he, "and sycophant and rascal,
and impudent, and devil, and old serpent, and a thousand such good morrows, I take them to
be only names of parties; and could return murderer, and cheat, and whig-napper, and sodomite;
and, in short, the goodly number of the seven deadly sins, with all their kindred and relations,
which are names of parties too; but saints will be saints in spite of villainy." With such
feelings, we may believe Dryden's rest was little disturbed by the litter of libels against him:--

  "Sons of a day just buoyant on the flood,
  Then numbered with the puppies in the mud."

But he who keenly engages in political controversy must not only encounter the vulgar abuse,
which he may justly contemn, but the altered eye of friends, whose regard is chilled, or alienated.
That Dryden sustained such misfortune we cannot doubt, when he informs us, that, out of the
large party in opposition, comprehending, doubtless, many men of talent and eminence, who were
formerly familiar with him, he had, during the course of a whole year, only spoken to four,
and to those but casually and cursorily, and only to express a wish, that the times might come
when the names of Whig and Tory might be abolished, and men live together as they had done
before they were introduced.

Neither did the protecting zeal of his party-friends compensate for the loss of those whom
Dryden had alienated in their service. True it is, that a host of Tory rhymers came forward
with complimentary verses to the author of "Absalom and Achitophel," and of "The Medal." But
of all payment, that in kind is least gratifying to a poverty-struck bard, and the courtly
patrons of Dryden were in no haste to make him more substantial requital. A gratuity of an
hundred broad pieces is said to have been paid him by Charles for one of his satires; but no
permanent provision was made for him. He was coolly left to increase his pittance by writing
occasional pieces; and it was probably with this view that he arranged for publication a miscellaneous
collection of poetry, which he afterwards continued. It was published for Tonson in 1683-4,
and contained several versions of Epistles from Ovid, and translations of detached pieces of
Virgil, Horace, and Theocritus, with some smaller pieces by Dryden himself, and a variety of
poems by other hands. The Epistles had appeared in 1680, in a version of the original by several
hands, to which Dryden also contributed an introductory discourse on translation. Contrary
to our author's custom, the miscellany appeared without either preface or dedication.

The miscellany, among other minor poems of Dryden, contained many of his occasional prologues
and epilogues, the composition of which his necessity had rendered so important a branch of
income, that, in the midst of his splendour of satirical reputation, the poet was obliged to
chaffer about the scanty recompence which he drew from such petty sources. Such a circumstance
attended the commencement of his friendship with Southerne. That poet then opening his dramatic
career with the play of the "Loyal Brother," came, as was usual, to request a prologue from
Dryden, and to offer him the usual compliment of five guineas. But the laureate demurred, and
insisted upon double the sum, "not out of disrespect," he added, "to you, young man; but the
players have had my goods too cheap." Hence Southerne, who was peculiarly fortunate in his
dramatic revenue, is designed by Pope as

      "Tom sent down to raise
  The price of prologues and of plays."[40]

It may seem surprising that Dryden should be left to make an object of such petty gains, when,
labouring for the service of government, he had in little more than twelve months produced
both Parts of "Absalom and Achitophel," "The Medal," "Mac-Flecknoe," "Religio Laici" and "The
Duke of Guise." But this was not the worst; for, although his pension as poet-laureate was
apparently all the encouragement which he received from the crown, so ill-regulated were the
finances of Charles, so expensive his pleasures, and so greedy his favourites, that our author,
shortly after finishing these immortal poems, was compelled to sue for more regular payment
of that very pension, and for a more permanent provision, in the following affecting Memorial,
addressed to Hyde, Earl of Rochester:--"I would plead," says he, "a little merit, and some
hazards of my life from the common enemies; my refusing advantages offered by them, and neglecting
my beneficial studies, for the king's service; but I only think I merit not to starve. I never
applied myself to any interest contrary to your lordship's; and, on some occasions, perhaps
not known to you, have not been unserviceable to the memory and reputation of my lord, your
father.[41] After this, my lord, my conscience assures me, I may write boldly, though I cannot
speak to you. I have three sons, growing to man's estate. I breed them all up to learning,
beyond my fortune; but they are too hopeful to be neglected, though I want. Be pleased to look
on me with an eye of compassion: some small employment would render my condition easy. The
king is not unsatisfied of me; the duke has often promised me his assistance; and your lordship
is the conduit through which their favours pass. Either in the customs, or the appeals of the
excise, or some other way, means cannot be wanting, if you please to have the will. 'Tis enough
for one age to have neglected Mr. Cowley, and starved Mr. Butler; but neither of them had the
happiness to live till your lordship's ministry. In the meantime, be pleased to give me a gracious
and a speedy answer to my present request of half a year's pension for my necessities. I am
going to write somewhat by his Majesty's command,[42] and cannot stir into the country for
my health and studies till I secure my family from want."

We know that this affecting remonstrance was in part successful; for long afterwards, he says,
in allusion to this period, "Even from a bare treasury, my success has been contrary to that
of Mr. Cowley; and Gideon's fleece has there been moistened, when all the ground was dry."
But in the admission of this claim to the more regular payment of his pension, was comprehended
all Rochester's title to Dryden's gratitude. The poet could not obtain the small employment
which he so earnestly solicited; and such was the recompense of the merry monarch and his counsellors,
to one whose productions had strengthened the pillars of his throne, as well as renovated the
literary taste of the nation.[43]

FOOTNOTES: [1] Mulgrave was created lieutenant of Yorkshire and governor of Hull, when Monmouth
was deprived of these and other honours.

[2] See vol. x.

[3] This is objected to Dryden by one of his antagonists: "Nor could ever Shimei be thought
to have cursed David more bitterly, than he permits his friend to blaspheme the Roman priesthood
in his epilogue to the 'Spanish Friar.' In which play he has himself acted his own part like
a true younger son of Noah, as may be easily seen in the first edition of that comedy, which
would not pass muster a second time without emendations and corrections."--The Revolter, 1687,
p. 29.

[4] See vol. ix.

[5] See vol. ix. This piece, entitled "Absalom's Conspiracy or the Tragedy of Treason," is
printed in the same volume.

[6] See vol. ix.

[7] Lord Grey says in his narrative, "After the dissolution of the Oxford parliament, we were
all very peaceably inclined, and nothing passed amongst us that summer of importance, which
I can call to mind: I think my Lord Shaftesbury was sent to the Tower just before the long
vacation; and the Duke of Monmouth, Mr. Montague, Sir Thomas Armstrong, and myself, went to
Tunbridge immediately after his lordship's imprisonment, where we laid aside the thoughts of
disturbing the peace of the government for those of diverting ourselves."

[8] He usually distinguishes Dryden by his "Rehearsal" title of Bayes; and, among many other
oblique expressions of malevolence, he has this note:--

"To see the incorrigibleness of our poets in their pedantic manner, their vanity, defiance
of criticism, their rhodomontade, and poetical bravado, we need only turn to our famous poet-laureat
(the very Mr. Bayes himself), in one of his latest and most valued pieces, writ many years
after the ingenious author of the 'Rehearsal' had drawn his picture. 'I have been listening
(says our poet, in his Preface to 'Don Sebastian'), what objections had been made against the
conduct of the play, but found them all so trivial, that if I should name them, a true critic
would imagine that I played booty. Some are pleased to say the writing is dull; but aedatum
habet de se loquatur. Others, that the double poison is unnatural; let the common received
opinion, and Ausonius's famous epigram, answer that. Lastly, a more ignorant sort of creatures
than either of the former maintain, that the character of Dorax is not only unnatural, but
inconsistent with itself; let them read the play, and think again. A longer reply is what those
cavillers deserve not. But I will give them and their fellows to understand, that the Earl
of ---- was pleased to read the tragedy twice over before it was acted and did me the favour
to send me word, that I had written beyond any of my former plays, and that he was displeased
anything should be cut away. If I have not reason to prefer his single judgment to a whole
faction, let the world be judge; for the opposition is the same with that of Lucan's hero against
an army, concurrere bellum atque virum. I think I may modestly conclude,' etc.

"Thus he goes on, to the very end, in the self-same strain. Who, after this, can ever say of
the 'Rehearsal' author, that his picture of our poet was overcharged, or the national humour
wrong described?"

[9] See vol. ix.

[10] See some extracts from this piece, vol. ix.

[11]
  "How well this Hebrew name with sense doth sound,
  A fool's my brother,[11a] though in wit profound!
  Most wicked wits are the devil's chiefest tools,
  Which, ever in the issue, God befools.
  Can they compare, vile varlet, once hold true,
  Of the loyal lord, and this disloyal Jew?
  Was e'er our English earl under disgrace,
  And, unconscionable; put out of place?
  Hath he laid lurking in his country-house
  To plot rebellions, as one factious?
  Thy bog-trot bloodhounds hunted have this stag,
  Yet cannot fasten their foul fangs,--they flag.
  Why didst not thou bring in thy evidence
  With them, to rectify the brave jury's sense,
  And so prevent the ignoramus?--nay,
  Thou wast cock-sure he wou'd he damned for aye,
  Without thy presence;--thou wast then employed
  To brand him 'gainst he came to be destroyed:
  Forehand preparing for the hangman's axe,
  Had not the witnesses been found so lax."

[11a] Achi, my brother, and tophel, a fool.--Orig. Note.

[12] Vol. ix.

[13] He was the son of Dr. John Pordage, minister of Bradfield expelled his charge for insufficiency
in the year 1646. Among other charges against him were the following, which, extraordinary
as they are, he does not seem to have denied:

"That he hath very frequent and familiar converse with angels.

"That a great dragon came into his chamber with a tail of eight yards long, four great teeth,
and did spit fire at him; and that he contended with the dragon.

"That his own angel came and stood by him while he was expostulating with the dragon; and the
angel came in his own shape and fashion, the same clothes, bands, and cuffs, the same bandstrings;
and that his angel stood by him and upheld him.

"That Mrs. Pordage and Mrs. Flavel had their angels standing by them also, Mrs. Pordage singing
sweetly, and keeping time upon her breast; and that his children saw the spirits coming into
the house, and said, Look there, father; and that the spirits did after come into the chamber,
and drew the curtains when they were in bed.

"That the said Mr. Pordage confessed, that a strong enchantment was upon him, and that the
devil did appear to him in the shape of Everard, and in the shape of a fiery dragon; and the
whole roof of the house was full of spirits."--State Trials.

[14] How little Dryden valued these nicknames appears from a passage in the "Vindication of
the Duke of Guise:"--"Much less am I concerned at the noble name of Bayes; that is a brat so
like his own father, that he cannot be mistaken for anybody else. They might as reasonably
have called Tom Sternhold Virgil, and the resemblance would have held as well." Vol. vii.

[15]
    "As when a swarm of gnats at eventide
    Out of the fennes of Allan doe arise,
  Their murmuring small trompetts sownden wide,
    Whiles in the aire their clustring army flies,
    That as a cloud doth seeme to dim the skies;
  No man nor beast may rest or take repast
    For their sharp wounds and noyous injuries,
  Till the fierce northern wind with blustring blast
  Doth blow them quite away, and in the ocean cast."

[16]
  "How finely would the sparks be caught to-day,
  Should a Whig poet write a Tory play,
  And you, possessed with rage before, should send
  Your random shot abroad and maul a friend?
  For you, we find, too often hiss and clap,
  Just as you live, speak, think, and fight--by hap.
  And poets, we all know, can change, like you,
  And are alone to their own interest true;
  Can write against all sense, nay even their own:
  The vehicle called pension makes it down.
  No fear of cudgels, where there's hope of bread;
  A well-filled paunch forgets a broken head."

[17] I quote the passage at length, as evincing the difference between Dryden's taste in comedy
and that of Shadwell:--

"I have endeavoured to represent variety of humours (most of the persons of the play differing
in their characters from one another), which was the practice of Ben Jonson, whom I think all
drammatick poets ought to imitate, though none are like to come near; he being the onely person
that appears to me to have made perfect representation of human life: most other authors that
I ever read, either have wilde romantick tales, wherein they strein love and honour to that
ridiculous height, that it becomes burlesque; or in their lower comedies content themselves
with one or two humours at most, and those not near so perfect characters as the admirable
Jonson; always made, who never wrote comedy without seven or eight considerable humours. I
never saw one, except that of Falstaffe, that was, in my judgment, comparable to any of Jonson's
considerable humours. You will pardon this digression when I tell you, he is the man, of all
the world, I most passionately admire for his excellency in drammatick poetry.

"Though I have known some of late so insolent to say, that Ben Jonson wrote his best playes
without wit, imagining, that all the wit playes consisted in bringing two persons upon the
stage to break jest, and to bob one another, which they call repartie, not considering, that
there is more wit and invention required in the finding out good humour and matter proper for
it, then in all their smart reparties; for, in the writing of a humour, a man is confined not
to swerve from the character, and obliged to say nothing but what is proper to it; but in the
playes which have been wrote of late, there is no such thing as perfect character, but the
two chief persons are most commonly a swearing, drinking, whoring ruffian for a lover, and
impudent, ill-bred tomrig for a mistress, and these are the fine people of the play; and there
is that latitude in this, that almost anything is proper for them to say; but their chief subject
is bawdy, and profaneness, which they call brisk writing, when the most dissolute of men, that
relish those things well enough in private, are choked at 'em in publick: and, methinks, if
there were nothing but the ill manners of it, it should make poets avoid that indecent way
of writing."--Preface to the Sullen Lovers.

Lest this provocation should be insufficient, the Prologue of the same piece has a fling at
heroic plays. The poet says he has

  "No kind romantic lover in his play
  To sigh and whine out passion, such as may
  Charm waiting-women with heroic chime,
  And still resolve to live and die in rhyme;
  Such as your ears with love and honour feast,
  And play at crambo for three hours at least,
  That fight and wooe in verse in the same breath,
  And make similitude and love in death."

Whatever symptoms of reconciliation afterwards took place between the poets, I greatly doubt
if this first offence was ever cordially forgiven.

[18] Vol. vii.

[19] See these offensive passages, vol. x.

[20] Vol. x.

[21]
  "The laurel makes a wit, a brave, the sword;
  And all are wise men at the Council board:
  Settle's a coward, 'cause fool Otway fought him,
  And Mulgrave is a wit, because I taught him."
The Tory Poets, 4to, 1682.

[22] Jonson is described as wearing a loose coachman's coat, frequenting the Mermaid tavern,
where he drunk seas of Canary, then reeling home to bed, and, after a profuse perspiration,
arising to his dramatic studies. Shadwell appears, from the slight traits which remain concerning
him, to have followed, as closely as possible, the same course of pleasure and of study. He
was brutal in his conversation, and much addicted to the use of opium, to which indeed he is
said finally to have fallen a victim.

[23] [I have inserted the word "first" because Scott's language is ambiguous. In the list of
the bookseller's collection in 3 vols. 4to, advertised in Amphitryon (1690), "Mac-Flecknoe"
and the Cromwell poem do not appear. The later plays, however, soon gave material for another
volume, and in this 4-vol. edition, advertised in Love Triumphant, 1694, both poems figure.--ED.]

[24] Vol. x.

[25] See some specimens of these poems, vol. ix.

[26] Vol. vi.; vol. x

[27] In a satire against Settle, dated April 1682, entitled, "A Character of the True-blue
Protestant Poet," the author exclaims, "One would believe it almost incredible, that any out
of Bedlam should think it possible, a yesterday's fool, an errant knave, a despicable coward,
and a prophane atheist, should be to-day by the same persons, a Cowley, a man of honour, an
hero, and a zealous upholder of the Protestant cause and interest."

[28] In the "Deliverance," an address to the Prince of Orange, published about 9th February 1689:--

  "Alas! the famous Settle, Durfey, Tate,
   That early propped the deep intrigues of state,
  Dull Whiggish lines the world could ne'er applaud,
  While your swift genius did appear abroad:
  And then, great Bayes, whose yet unconquered pen
  Wrote with strange force as well of beasts as men,
  Whose noble genius grieved from afar,
  Because new worlds of Bayes did not appear,
  Now to contend with the ambitious elf,
  Begins a civil war against himself," etc.

[29] In 1702, probably in the capacity of civic-laureate, he wrote "Carmen Irenicum," upon
the union of the two East India companies; and long afterward, in 1717, he is mentioned by
Dennis as still the city poet.

[30] He published a translation of the tenth satire of Juvenal, in the preface to which he
rails plentifully against Dryden.

[31] [The omission of Marston here is remarkable, because no satirist exhibits this extraordinary
roughness of versification more glaringly. Scott can hardly have read him.--ED.]

I infer, that the want of harmony was intentional, from these expressions: "It is not for every
one to relish a true and natural satire; being of itself, besides the nature and inbred bitterness
and tartness of particulars, both hard of conceit and harsh of style, and therefore cannot
but be unpleasing both to the unskilful and over-musical ear; the one being affected with only
a shallow and easy, the other with a smooth and current, disposition."--Postscript to Hall's
Satires.

[32] In "Venice Preserved," the character of the foolish senator Antonio, now judiciously omitted
in the representation was said to be meant for Shaftesbury. But Crowne's "City Politics" contained
the most barefaced exhibition of all the popular leaders, including Shaftesbury, College the
Protestant joiner, Titus Oates, and Sir William Jones. The last is described under the character
of Bartoline, with the same lisping imperfect enunciation which distinguished the original.
Let us remark, however, to the honour of Charles II., that in "Sir Courtly Nice," another comedy
which Crowne, by his express command, imitated from the Spanish, the furious Tory is ridiculed
in the character of Hothead, as well as the fanatical Whig under that of Testimony.

[33] See the Prologues and Epilogues in vol. x.

[34] The concealed partiality of Charles towards Monmouth survived even the discovery of the
Rye-house Plot. He could not dissemble his satisfaction upon seeing him after his surrender,
and pressed his hand affectionately.--See Monmouth's Diary in Wellwood's Memorials, p. 322.

[35] Carte, in his "life of the Duke of Ormond," says, that Monmouth's resolutions varied from
submission to resistance against the king, according to his residence with the Duchess at Moor-park,
who schooled him to the former, or with his associates and partisans in the city, who instigated
him to more desperate resolutions.

[36] This Dryden might learn from Mulgrave, who mentions in his Memoirs, as a means of Monmouth's
advancement, the "great friendship which the Duke of York had openly professed to his wife,
a lady of wit and reputation, who had both the ambition of making her husband considerable,
and the address of succeeding in it, by using her interest in so friendly an uncle, whose design
I believe was only to convert her. Whether this familiarity of theirs was contrived or only
connived at by the Duke of Monmouth himself, is hard to determine. But I remember, that, after
these two princes had become declared enemies, the Duke of York one day told me, with some
emotion, as conceiving it a new mark of his nephew's insolence, that he had forbidden his wife
to receive any more visits from him; at which I could not help frankly replying, that I, who
was not used to excuse him, yet could not hold from doing it in that case, wishing his highness
might have no juster cause to complain of him. Upon which the duke, surprised to find me excuse
his and my own enemy, changed the discourse immediately."--Memoirs, p. 13.

I have perused letters from Sir Gideon Scott of Highchester to the Duchess of Monmouth, recommending
a prudent and proper attention to the Duke of York: and this advice she probably followed;
for, after her husband's execution, James restored to her all her family estates.

[37] Bought by Mr. Luttrell, 11th April 1683. See it in vol. x. It is expressly levelled against
"The Duke of Guise," and generally against Dryden as a court poet. I may, however be wrong
in ascribing it to Shadwell.

[38] I observe Anthony Wood, as well as Mr. Malone, suppose Hunt and the Templar associated
in the Reflections to be the same person. But in the "Vindication of the Duke of Guise" Shadwell
and they are spoke of as three distinct persons.

[39] See vol. xvii. In this edition I have retained a specimen of a translation which our author
probably executed with peculiar care; selecting it from the account of the barricades of Paris,
as illustrating the tragedy of "The Duke of Guise."

[40] [This story is told with great variation of figures. Johnson mentions two and three guineas
as the old and new prices; others give four and six.--ED.]

[41] Probably alluding to having defended Clarendon in public company; for nothing of the kind
occurs in Dryden's publications. [It is not impossible that the New Year's Day Poem (1662)
to the Lord Chancellor is partly referred to here.--ED.]

[42] Probably the translation of "Religio Laici."

[43] [Some important evidence has come to light since Scott wrote, which shows that the response
to Dryden's petitions and the reward of his services was not so insignificant as appears from
the text, though it was meagre enough. The facts were not known fully even to Macaulay, and
his ignorance enabled him, in perfect honesty, to make the case against Dryden, for supposed
venal apostasy, stronger than it might otherwise appear. The documents referred to were discovered
by Mr. Peter Cunningham and by Mr. Charles Beville Dryden, the latter of whom communicated
his discovery to Mr. Robert Bell. As the facts are undoubted, and Macaulay's ignorance of them
equally so, it seems a little remarkable that a reviewer of the little book on Dryden to which
I am too often obliged to refer my readers, should have announced his adherence to "Macaulay
and fact" rather than "Mr. Bell and sophistry." It is not obvious how fact can be on the side
of a writer who was, owing to no fault of his own, ignorant of the fact, and whose ignorance
furnished him with his premises. The state of the case is this. Dryden's application to Hyde
produced the following Treasury warrant:--

  --of the sume of Fifty pounds for one
  quarter of the said Annuity or Pencon due at Mid-summer
  1680. And by Vertue of his Ma'ts Lres of Privy
  Scale directing an additionall Annuity of One hundred
  pounds to him the said John Dryden to draw one or
  more orders for payment of the sume of Twenty five
  Pounds for one Quarter of the said Annuity due at
  Lady day 1680. And let both the said sumes making
  the sume of Seaventy Five Pounds be satisfyed out of
  any his Ma'ts Treasure now or hereafter being and
  remaining in the Receipt of Excheq'r not appropriated
  to particular uses For w'ch this shal be your Warrant.

  Whitehall Treasury Chambers May the 6th 1684

  To our very Loving friend S'r Robert                       Rochester
  howard Kn't Auditor of the Receipt                         J Ernle'r
  of his Ma'ts Excheq'r.                                     Ed Dering
  Int'r. in officio Auditor                                  Ste: ffox
  Recpt see-ij Dni Regis                  Int'r in Oficio Clei Pell &c.
  Mr. Dryden 75l.

It will be seen from this that independently of the appointment of the laureateship, Dryden
had in or before the year 1679 received an additional pension of £100 a year. Confirmatory
of this is a Treasury order for the quarter of the same pension, due January 5th, 1679, and
a secret service payment of the same year, apparently referring to the same pension. Moreover,
on December 17th, 1683, Dryden was appointed collector of customs in the port of London. The
value of this is unknown, but the sum of £5 for collecting the duties on cloth, which is the
only part of the emoluments as to which there is documentary evidence, must have been a very
small part of it. Now these two appointments, the laureateship and the collectorship, were
by letters-patent, and were, in the usual course, confirmed on the accession of the new Sovereign,
though James characteristically cut out the butt of sack. But the extra pension, which was
merely granted by letters of privy seal, lapsed, and it was absolutely within the discretion
of the new Sovereign to continue or discontinue it. It was not formally regranted for a year,
and this pension was mistaken by Macaulay for an original one granted in payment of apostasy.
That the difference is very considerable must strike every one, and I for one cannot see that
the drawing of the obvious inference can be called sophistry. If the time between the lapsing
and the regranting seems long, it has to be observed, first, that arrears to the date of the
lapse are carefully specified; secondly, that even in the case of the laureateship patent,
four whole months, as has been seen, elapsed between the instruction for it and the patent itself.

The accession of James II. to the British throne excited new hopes in all orders of men. On
the accession of a new prince, the loyal looked to rewards, the rebellious to amnesty. The
Catholics exulted in beholding one of their persuasion attain the crown after an interval of
two centuries; the Church of England expected the fruits of her unlimited devotion to the royal
line; even the sectaries might hope indulgence from a prince whose religion deviated from that
established by law as widely as their own. All, therefore, hastened, in sugared addresses,
to lament the sun which had set, and hail the beams of that which had arisen. Dryden, among
other expectants, chose the more honourable of these themes; and in the "Threnodia Augustalis,"
at once paid a tribute to the memory of the deceased monarch, and decently solicited the attention
of his successor. But although he had enjoyed personal marks of the favour of Charles, they
were of a nature too unsubstantial to demand a deep tone of sorrow. "Little was the muses'
hire, and light their gain;" and "the pension of a prince's praise" is stated to have been
all their encouragement. Dryden, therefore, by no means sorrowed as if he had no hope; but,
having said all that was decently mournful over the bier of Charles, tuned his lyrics to a
sounding close in praise of James.

About the same time, Dryden resumed, with new courage, the opera of "Albion and Albanius,"
which had been nearly finished before the death of Charles. This was originally designed as
a masque, or emblematical prelude to the play of "King Arthur;" for Dryden, wearied with the
inefficient patronage of Charles, from whom he only "received fair words," had renounced in
despair the task of an epic poem, and had converted one of his themes, that of the tale of
Arthur, into the subject of a romantic drama. As the epic was to have been adapted to the honour
and praise of Charles and his brother, the opera had originally the same political tendency.
"Albion and Albanius" was a sort of introductory masque, in which, under a very thin veil of
allegory, first, the restoration of the Stuarts to the throne, and, secondly, their recent
conquest over their Whig opponents, were successively represented. The death of Charles made
little alteration in this piece: it cost but the addition of an apotheosis; and the opera concluded
with the succession of James to the throne, from which he had been so nearly excluded. These
topics were however temporary; and, probably from the necessity of producing it while the allusions
were fresh and obvious, "Albion and Albanius" was detached from "King Arthur," which was not
in such a state of forwardness. Great expense was bestowed in bringing forward this piece,
and the scenery seems to have been unusually perfect; particularly, the representation of a
celestial phenomenon, actually seen by Captain Gunman of the navy, whose evidence is quoted
in the printed copies of the play.[1] The music of "Albion and Albanius" was arranged by Grabut,
a Frenchman, whose name does not stand high as a composer. Yet Dryden pays him some compliments
in the preface of the piece, which were considered as derogatory to Purcel and the English
school, and gave great offence to a class of persons at least as irritable as their brethren
the poets. This, among other causes, seems to have injured the success of the piece. But its
death-blow was the news of the Duke of Monmouth's invasion, which reached London on Saturday,
13th June 1685, while "Albion and Albanius" was performing for the sixth time: the audience
broke up in consternation, and the piece was never again repeated.[2] This opera was prejudicial
to the company, who were involved by the expense in a considerable debt, and never recovered
half the money laid out. Neither was it of service to our poet's reputation, who had, on this
occasion, to undergo the gibes of angry musicians, as well as the reproaches of disappointed
actors and hostile poets. One went so far as to suggest, with some humour, that probably the
laureate and Grabut had mistaken their trade; the forming writing the music, and the latter
the verse.

We have now reached a remarkable incident in our author's life, namely, his conversion to the
Catholic faith, which took place shortly after the accession of James II. to the British throne.
The biographer of Dryden must feel considerable difficulty in discussing the probable causes
of his change. Although this essay be intended to contain the life, not the apology of the
poet, it is the duty of the writer to place such circumstances in view, as may qualify the
strong prepossession at first excited by a change of faith against the individual who makes
it. This prepossession, powerful in every case, becomes doubly so, if the step be taken at
a time when the religion adopted seems more readily to pave the way for the temporal prosperity
of the proselyte. Even where the grounds of conviction are ample and undeniable, we have a
respect for those who suffer, rather than renounce a mistaken faith, when it is discountenanced
or persecuted. A brave man will least of all withdraw himself from his ancient standard when
the tide of battle beats against it. On the other hand, those who at such a period admit conviction
to the better and predominant doctrine, are viewed with hatred by the members of the deserted
creed, and with doubt by their new brethren in faith. Many who adopted Christianity in the
reign of Constantine were doubtless sincere proselytes, but we do not find that any of them
have been canonised. These feelings must be allowed powerfully to affect the mind, when we
reflect that Dryden, a servant of the court and zealously attached to the person of James,
to whom he looked for the reward of long and faithful service, did not receive any mark of
royal favour until he professed himself a member of the religion for which that king was all
but an actual martyr. There are other considerations, however, greatly qualifying the conclusions
which might be drawn from these suspicious circumstances, and tending to show, that Dryden's
conversion was at least in a great measure effected by sincere conviction.

The "vain desires" of Dryden's "thoughtless youth" require no explanation: they obviously mean,
that inattention to religious duties which the amusements of youth too frequently occasion.
The "false lights" which bewildered the poet's manhood, were, I doubt not, the puritanical
tenets, which, coming into the world under the auspices of his fanatical relations, Sir Gilbert
Pickering and Sir John Driden, he must have at least professed, but probably seriously entertained.
It must be remembered, that the poet was thirty years of age at the Restoration, so that a
considerable space of his full-grown manhood had passed while the rigid doctrines of the fanatics
were still the order of the day. But the third state of his opinions, those "sparkles which
his pride struck out," after the delusions of puritanism had vanished; in other words, those
sentiments which he imbibed after the Restoration, and which immediately preceded his adoption
of the Catholic faith, cannot be ascertained without more minute investigation. We may at the
outset be easily permitted to assume, that the adoption of a fixed creed of religious principles
was not the first business of our author, when that merry period set him free from the rigorous
fetters of fanaticism. Unless he differed more than we can readily believe from the public
feeling at that time, Dryden was satisfied to give to Caesar the things that were Caesar's,
without being in a hurry to fulfil the counterpart of the precept. Foremost in the race of
pleasure, engaged in labours alien from serious reflection, the favourite of the most lively
and dissolute nobility whom England ever saw, religious thoughts were not, at this period,
likely to intrude frequently upon his mind, or to be encouraged when they did so. The time,
therefore, when Dryden began seriously to compare the doctrines of the contending sects of
Christianity, was probably several years after the Restoration, when reiterated disappointment,
and satiety of pleasure, prompted his mind to retire within itself, and think upon hereafter.
The "Religio Laici" published in 1682, evinces that, previous to composing that poem, the author
had bestowed serious consideration upon the important subjects of which it treats: and I have
postponed the analysis of it to this place, in order that the reader may be able to form his
own conjecture from what faith Dryden changed when he became a Catholic.

The "Religio Laici" has indeed a political tendency, being written to defend the Church of
England against the sectaries: it is not therefore, so much from the conclusions of the piece,
as from the mode of the author's deducing these conclusions, that Dryden's real opinions may
he gathered;--as we learn nothing of the bowl's bias from its having reached its mark, though
something may be conjectured by observing the course which it described in attaining it. From
many minute particulars, I think it almost decisive, that Dryden, when he wrote the "Religio
Laici," was sceptical concerning revealed religion. I do not mean, that his doubts were of
that fixed and permanent nature, which have at different times induced men, of whom better
might have been hoped, to pronounce themselves freethinkers on principle. On the contrary,
Dryden seems to have doubted with such a strong wish to believe, as, accompanied with circumstances
of extrinsic influence, led him finally into the opposite extreme of credulity. His view of
the doctrines of Christianity, and of its evidence, were such as could not legitimately found
him in the conclusions he draws in favour of the Church of England; and accordingly, in adopting
them, he evidently stretches his complaisance towards the national religion, while perhaps
in his heart he was even then disposed to think there was no middle course between natural
religion and the Church of Rome. The first creed which he examines is that of Deism; which
he rejects, because the worship of one sole deity was not known to the philosophers of antiquity,
and is therefore obviously to be ascribed to revelation. Revelation thus proved, the puzzling
doubt occurs, whether the Scripture, as contended by Calvinists, was to be the sole rule of
faith, or whether the rules and traditions of the Church are to be admitted in explanation
of the holy text. Here Dryden does not hesitate to point out the inconveniences ensuing from
making the sacred page the subject of the dubious and contradictory commentary of the laity
at large: when

  "The common rule was made the common prey,
  And at the mercy of the rabble lay;
  The tender page with horny fists was galled,
  And he was gifted most that loudest bawled;
  The spirit gave the doctoral degree,
  And every member of a company
  Was of his trade and of the Bible free."

This was the rule of the sectaries,--of those whose innovations seemed, in the eyes of the
Tories, to be again bursting in upon monarchy and episcopacy with the strength of a land-flood.
Dryden, therefore, at once, and heartily, reprobates it. But the opposite extreme of admitting
the authority of the Church as omnipotent in deciding all matters of faith, he does not give
up with the same readiness. The extreme convenience, nay almost necessity, for such authority,
is admitted in these remarkable lines:

  "Such an omniscient church we wish indeed;
  'Twere worth both Testaments, cast in the Creed."

A wish, so forcibly expressed, shows a strong desire on the part of the poet to be convinced
of the existence of what he so ardently desired. And the argument which Dryden considers as
conclusive against the existence of such an omniscient church, is precisely that which a subtle
Catholic would find little trouble in repelling. If there be such a church, says Dryden, why
does it not point out the corruption of the canon, and restore it where lost? The answer is
obvious, providing that the infallibility of the church be previously assumed; for where can
the necessity of restoring or explaining Scripture, if God has given, to Pope and Council,
the inspiration necessary to settle all doubts in matters of faith? Dryden must have perceived
where this argument led him, and he rather compounds with the difficulty than faces it. The
Scripture, he admits, must be the rule on the one hand; but, on the other, it was to be qualified
with the traditions of the earlier ages, and the exposition of learned men. And he concludes,
boldly enough:

  "Shall I speak plain, and, in a nation free,
  Assume an honest layman's liberty?
  I think, according to my little skill,
  To my own mother-church submitting still,
  That many have been saved, and many may,
  Who never heard this question brought in play.
  The unlettered Christian, who believes in gross,
  Plods on to heaven, and ne'er is at a loss;
  For the strait gate would be made straiter yet,
  Were none admitted there but men of wit."

This seems to be a plain admission, that the author was involved in a question from which he
saw no very decided mode of extricating himself; and that the best way was to think as little
as possible upon the subject. But this was a sorry conclusion for affording firm foundation
in religious faith.

Another doubt appears to have puzzled Dryden so much, as to lead him finally to the Catholic
faith for its solution. This was the future fate of those who never heard the gospel preached,
supposing belief in it essential to salvation:

  "Because a general law is that alone,
  Which must to all, and every where, be known."

Dryden, it is true, founds upon the mercy of the Deity a hope, that the benefit of the propitiatory
sacrifice of our Mediator may be extended to those who knew not of its power. But the creed
of St. Athanasius stands in the poet's road; and though he disposes of it with less reverence
to the patriarch than is quite seemly, there is an indecision, if not in his conclusion, at
least in his mode of deducing it, that shows an apt inclination to cut the knot, and solve
the objection of the Deist, by alleging, that belief in the Christian religion is an essential
requisite to salvation.

If I am right in these remarks, it will follow, that Dryden never could be a firm or steady
believer in the Church of England's doctrines. The arguments, by which he proved them, carried
him too far; and when he commenced a teacher of faith, or when, as he expresses it, "his pride
struck out new sparkles of its own," at that very time, while in words he maintained the doctrines
of his mother-church, his conviction really hovered between natural religion and the faith
of Rome. It is remarkable that his friends do not seem to have considered the "Religio Laici"
as expressive of his decided sentiments; for Charles Blount, a noted free-thinker, in consequence
of that very work, wrote a deistical treatise in prose, bearing the same title, and ascribed
it with great testimony of respect to "his much-honoured friend, John Dryden, Esquire."[3]
Mr. Blount, living in close habits with Dryden, must have known perfectly well how to understand
his polemical poem; and, had he supposed it was written under a deep belief of the truth of
the English creed, can it be thought he would have inscribed to the author a tract against
all revelation?[4] The inference is, therefore, sufficiently plain, that the dedicator knew
that Dryden was sceptical on the subject, on which he had, out of compliment to Church and
State, affected a conviction; and that his "Religio Laici" no more inferred a belief in the
doctrines of Christianity, than the sacrifice of a cock to Esculapius proved the heathen philosopher's
faith in the existence of that divine leech. Thus far Dryden had certainly proceeded. His disposition
to believe in Christianity was obvious, but he was bewildered in the maze of doubt in which
he was involved; and it was already plain, that the Church, whose promises to illuminate him
were most confident, was likely to have the honour of this distinguished proselyte. Dryden
did not, therefore, except in outward profession, abandon the Church of England for that of
Rome, but was converted to the Catholic faith from a state of infidelity, or rather of Pyrrhonism.
This is made more clear by the words of Dryden, from which it appears that, having once admitted
the mysterious doctrines of the Trinity and of redemption, so incomprehensible to human reason,
he felt no right to make any further appeal to that fallible guide:

  "Good life be now my task; my doubts are done;
  What more could fright my faith than three in one?
  Can I believe Eternal God could lie
  Disguised in mortal mould, and infancy?
  That the great Maker of the world could die?
  And after that trust my imperfect sense,
  Which calls in question his omnipotence?"

From these lines it may be safely inferred, that Dryden's sincere acquiescence in the more
abstruse points of Christianity did not long precede his adoption of the Roman faith. In some
preceding verses it appears, how eagerly he received the conviction of the Church's infallibility
as affording that guide, the want of whom he had in some degree lamented in the "Religio Laici:"

  "What weight of ancient witness can prevail,
  If private reason hold the public scale?

We find, therefore, that Dryden's conversion was not of that sordid kind which is the consequence
of a strong temporal interest; for he had expressed intelligibly the imagined desiderata which
the Church of Rome alone pretends to supply, long before that temporal interest had an existence.
Neither have we to reproach him, that, grounded and rooted in a pure Protestant creed, he was
foolish enough to abandon it for the more corrupted doctrines of Rome. He did not unloose from
the secure haven to moor in the perilous road; but, being tossed on the billows of uncertainty,
he dropped his anchor in the first moorings to which the winds, waves, and perhaps an artful
pilot, chanced to convey his bark. We may indeed regret, that, having to choose between two
religions, he should have adopted that which our education, reason, and even prepossessions,
combine to point out as foully corrupted from the primitive simplicity of the Christian Church.
But neither the Protestant Christian, nor the sceptic philosopher, can claim a right to despise
the sophistry which bewildered the judgment of Chillingworth, or the toils which enveloped
the active and suspicious minds of Bayle and of Gibbon. The latter, in his account of his own
conversion to the Catholic faith, fixes upon the very arguments pleaded by Dryden, as those
which appeared to him irresistible. The early traditions of the Church, the express words of
the text, are referred to by both as the grounds of their conversion; and the works of Bossuet,
so frequently referred to by the poet, were the means of influencing the determination of the
philosopher.[5] The victorious argument to which Chillingworth himself yielded, was, "that
there must be somewhere an infallible judge, and the Church of Rome is the only Christian society,
which either does or can pretend to that character."

It is also to be observed, that towards the end of Charles II.'s reign, the High Churchmen
and the Catholics regarded themselves as on the same side in political questions, and not greatly
divided in their temporal interests. Both were sufferers in the Plot, both were enemies of
the sectaries, both were adherents of the Stuarts.

Alternate conversion had been common between them, so early as since Milton made a reproach
to the English universities of the converts to the Roman faith daily made within their colleges;
of those sheep,

     "Whom the grim wolf with privy paw
  Daily devours apace and nothing said."

In approaching Dryden, therefore, a Catholic priest had to combat few of those personal prejudices
which, in other cases, have been impediments to their making converts. The poet had, besides,
before him the example of many persons both of rank and talent, who had adopted the Catholic
religion.

Such being the disposition of Dryden's mind, and such the peculiar facilities of the Roman
Churchmen in making proselytes, it is by no means to be denied, that circumstances in the poet's
family and situation strongly forwarded his taking such a step. His Wife, Lady Elizabeth, had
for some time been a Catholic; and though she may be acquitted of any share in influencing
his determination, yet her new faith necessarily brought into his family persons both able
and disposed to do so. His eldest and best beloved son, Charles, is also said, though upon
uncertain authority, to have been a Catholic before his father, and to have contributed to
his change.[6] Above all, James his master, to whose fortunes he had so closely attached himself,
had now become as parsimonious of his favour as his Church is of salvation, and restricted
it to those of his own sect. It is more than probable, though only a conjecture, that Dryden
might be made the subject of those private exhortations, which in that reign were called closeting;
and, predisposed as he was, he could hardly be supposed capable of resisting the royal eloquence.
For, while pointing out circumstances of proof, that Dryden's conversion was not made by manner
of bargain and sale, but proceeded upon a sincere though erroneous conviction, it cannot be
denied, that his situation as poet-laureate, and his expectations from the king, must have
conduced to his taking his final resolution. All I mean to infer from the above statement is,
that his interest and internal conviction led him to the same conclusion.

If we are to judge of Dryden's sincerity in his new faith, by the determined firmness with
which report retained it through good report and bad report we must allow him to have been
a martyr, or at least a confessor, in the Catholic cause. If after the Revolution, like many
greater men, he had changed his principles with the times, he was not a person of such mark
as to be selected from all the nation, and punished for former tenets. Supported by the friendship
of Rochester, and most of the Tory nobles who were active in the Revolution, of Leicester,
and many Whigs, and especially of the Lord-Chamberlain Dorset, there would probably have been
little difficulty in his remaining poet-laureate, if he had recanted the errors of Popery.
But the Catholic religion, and the consequent disqualifications, was an insurmountable obstacle
to his holding that or any other office under government; and Dryden's adherence to it, with
all the poverty, reproach, and even persecution which followed the profession, argued a deep
and substantial conviction of the truth of the doctrines it inculcated. So late as 1699, when
an union, in opposition to King William, had led the Tories and Whigs to look on each other
with some kindness, Dryden thus expresses himself in a letter to his cousin, Mrs. Steward:
"The court rather speaks kindly of me, than does anything for me, though they promise largely;
and perhaps they think I will advance as they go backward, in which they will be much deceived:
for I can never go an inch beyond my conscience and my honour. If they will consider me as
a man who has done my best to improve the language, and especially the poetry, and will be
content with my acquiescence under the present government, and forbearing satire on it, that
I can promise, because I can perform it: but I can neither take the oaths, nor forsake my religion;
because I know not what Church to go to, if I leave the Catholic: they are all so divided amongst
themselves in matters of faith, necessary to salvation, and yet all assuming the name of Protestants.
May God be pleased to open your eyes, as he has opened mine! Truth is but one, and they who
have once heard of it, can plead no excuse if they do not embrace it. But these are things
too serious for a trifling letter."[7] If, therefore, adherence to the communion of a falling
sect, loaded too at the time with heavy disqualifications, and liable to yet more dangerous
suspicions, can be allowed as a proof of sincerity, we can hardly question that Dryden was,
from the date of his conviction, a serious and sincere Roman Catholic.

The conversion of Dryden did not long remain unrewarded,[8] nor was his pen suffered to be
idle in the cause which he had adopted. On the 4th of March 1685-6, an hundred pounds a year,
payable quarterly, was added to his pension:[9] and probably he found himself more at ease
under the regular and economical government of James, than when his support depended on the
exhausted exchequer of Charles. Soon after the granting of this boon, he was employed to defend
the reasons of conversion to the Catholic faith, alleged by Anne Hyde, Duchess of York, which,
together with two papers on a similar subject, said to be found in Charles II.'s strong box.
James had with great rashness given to the public. Stillingfleet, now at the head of the champions
of the Protestant faith, published some sharp remarks on these papers. Another hand, probably
that of a Jesuit, was employed to vindicate against him the royal grounds of conversion; while
to Dryden was committed the charge of defending those alleged by the Duchess. The tone of Dryden's
apology was, to say the least, highly injudicious, and adapted to irritate the feelings of
the clergy of the established church, already sufficiently exasperated to see the sacrifices
which they had made to the royal cause utterly forgotten, the moment that they paused in the
extremity of their devotion towards the monarch. The name of "Legion," which the apologist
bestows on his adversaries, intimates the committee of the clergy by whom the Protestant cause
was then defended; and the tone of his arguments is harsh, contemptuous, and insulting. A raker
up of the ashes of princes, an hypocrite, a juggler, a latitudinarian, are the best terms which
he affords the advocate of the Church of England, in defence of which he had so lately been
himself a distinguished champion. Stillingfleet returned to the charge; and when he came to
the part of the Defence written by Dryden, he did not spare the personal invective, to which
the acrimonious style of the poet-laureate had indeed given an opening, "Zeal," says Stillingfleet,
"in a new convert, is a terrible thing, for it not only burns, but rages like the eruptions
of Mount Etna; it fills the air with noise and smoke, and throws out such a torrent of living
fire, that there is no standing before it." In another passage, Stillingfleet talks of the
"temptation of changing religion for bread;" in another, our author's words, that

  "Priests of all religions are the same," [10]

are quoted to infer, that he who has no religion may declare for any. Dryden took his revenge
both on Stillingfleet the author, and on Burnet, whom he seems to have regarded as the reviser
of this answer, in his polemical poem of "The Hind and the Panther."

If we can believe an ancient tradition, this poem was chiefly composed in a country retirement
at Rushton, near his birth-place in Huntingdon [Northamptonshire]. There was an embowered walk
at this place, which, from the pleasure which the poet took in it, retained the name of Dryden's
Walk; and here was erected, about the middle of last century, an urn, with the following inscription:
"In memory of Dryden, who frequented these shades, and is here said to have composed his poem
of 'The Hind and the Panther.'"[11]

"The Hind and the Panther" was written with a view to obviate the objections of the English
clergy and people to the power of dispensing with the test laws, usurped by James II. A change
of political measures, which took place while the poem was composing, has greatly injured its
unity and consistence. In the earlier part of his reign, James endeavoured to gain the Church
of England, by fair means and flattery, to submit to the remission which he claimed the liberty
of granting to the Catholics. The first part of Dryden's poem is written upon this soothing
plan; the Panther, or Church of England, is

          "sure the noblest next the Hind,
  And fairest offspring of the spotted kind.
  Oh could her inborn stains be washed away,
  She were too good to be a beast of prey."

The sects, on the other hand, are characterised, wolves, bears, boars, foxes,--all that is
odious and horrible in the brute creation. But ere the poem was published, the king had assumed
a different tone with the established church. Relying upon the popularity which the suspension
of the penal laws was calculated to procure among the Dissenters, he endeavoured to strengthen
his party by making common cause between them and the Catholics, and bidding open defiance
to the Church of England. For a short time, and with the most ignorant of the sectaries, this
plan seemed to succeed; the pleasure of a triumph over their ancient enemies rendering them
blind to the danger of the common Protestant cause. During this interval the poem was concluded;
and the last book seems to consider the cause of the Hind and Panther as gone to a final issue,
and incapable of any amicable adjustment. The Panther is fairly resigned to her fate:

  "Her hour of grace was passed,"

and the downfall of the English hierarchy is foretold in that of the Doves, who, in a subaltern
allegory, represent the clergy of the established church:

  "Tis said, the Doves repented, though too late,
  Become the smiths of their own foolish fate:
  Nor did their owner hasten their ill hour,
  But, sunk in credit, they decreased in power;
  Like snows in warmth that mildly pass away,
  Dissolving in the silence of decay."

In the preface, as well as in the course of the poem, Dryden frequently alludes to his dispute
with Stillingfleet; and perhaps none of his poems contain finer lines than those in which he
takes credit for the painful exertion of Christian forbearance when called by injured feeling
to resent personal accusation:--

  "If joys hereafter must be purchased here
  With loss of all that mortals hold so dear,
  Then welcome infamy and public shame,
  And last, a long farewell to worldly fame!
  'Tis said with ease; but, oh, how hardly tried
  By haughty souls to human honour tied!
  O sharp convulsive pangs of agonising pride!
  Down then, rebel, never more to rise!
  And what thou didst, and dost, so dearly prize,
  That fame, that darling fame, make that thy sacrifice.
  'Tis nothing thou hast given; then add thy tears
  For a long race of unrepenting years:
  'Tis nothing yet, yet all thou hast to give;
  Then add those may-be years thou hast to live:
  Yet nothing still: then poor and naked come,
  Thy father will receive his unthrift home,
  And thy blest Saviour's blood discharge the mighty sum."

Stillingfleet is, however, left personally undistinguished, but Burnet, afterwards Bishop of
Salisbury, receives chastisement in his stead. The character of this prelate, however unjustly
exaggerated, preserves many striking and curious traits of resemblance to the original; and,
as was natural, gave deep offence to the party for whom it was drawn. For not only did Burnet
at the time express himself with great asperity of Dryden, but long afterwards, when writing
his history, he pronounced a severe censure on the immorality of his plays, so inaccurately
expressed as to be applicable, by common construction to the author's private character. From
this coarse and inexplicit accusation, the memory of Dryden was indignantly vindicated by his
friend Lord Lansdowne.

It is also worth remarking, that in the allegory of the swallows, introduced in the Third Part
of "The Hind and the Panther," the author seems to have had in his eye the proposal made at
a grand consult of the Catholics, that they should retire from the general and increasing hatred
of all ranks, and either remain quiet at home, or settle abroad. This plan, which originated
in their despair of James's being able to do anything effectual in their favour, was set aside
by the fiery opposition of Father Petre, the martin of the fable told by the Panther to the
Hind.[12]

The appearance of "The Hind and the Panther" excited a clamour against the author far more
general than the publication of "Absalom and Achitophel." Upon that occasion the offence was
given only to a party, but this open and avowed defence of James's strides towards arbitrary
power, with the unpopular circumstance of its coming from a new convert to the royal faith,
involved our poet in the general suspicion with which the nation at large now viewed the slightest
motions of their infatuated monarch. The most noted amongst those who appeared to oppose the
triumphant advocate of the Hind, were Montague and Prior, young men now rising into eminence.
The piece is, therefore, founded upon the twice-told jest of the "Rehearsal." Of the parody
itself, we have given ample specimen in its proper place. There is nothing new or original
in the idea, which chiefly turns upon the ridiculing the poem of Dryden, where religious controversy
is made the subject of dispute and adjustment between a Hind and a Panther, who vary between
their typical character of animals and their real character as the Catholic and English Church.
In this piece, Prior, though the younger man, seems to have had by far the larger share. Lord
Peterborough, on being asked whether the satire was not written by Montague in conjunction
with Prior, answered, "Yes; as if I, seated in Mr. Cheselden's chaise drawn by his fine horse,
should say, Lord! how finely we draw this chaise!" Indeed, although the parody was trite and
obvious, the satirists had the public upon their side; and it now seems astonishing with what
acclamations this attack upon the most able champion of James's faith was hailed by his discontented
subjects. Dryden was considered as totally overcome by his assailants; they deemed themselves,
and were deemed by others, as worthy of very distinguished and weighty recompence;[13] and
what was yet a more decisive mark, that their bolt had attained its mark, the aged poet is
said to have lamented, even with tears, the usage he had received from two young men, to whom
he had been always civil. This last circumstance is probably exaggerated. Montague and Prior
had doubtless been frequenters of Will's coffee-house, where Dryden held the supreme rule in
criticism, and had thus, among other rising wits, been distinguished by him. That he should
have felt their satire is natural, for the arrow flew with the wind, and popularity amply supplied
its deficiency in real vigour; but the reader may probably conclude with Johnson, that Dryden
was too much hackneyed in political warfare to suffer so deeply from the parody, as Dr. Lockier's
anecdote would lead us to believe. "If we can suppose him vexed," says that accurate judge
of human nature, "we can hardly deny him sense to conceal his uneasiness."

Although Prior and Montague were first in place and popularity, there wanted not the usual
crowd of inferior satirists and poetasters to follow them to the charge. "The Hind and the
Panther" was assailed by a variety of pamphlets, by Tom Brown and others, of which an account,
with specimens perhaps more than sufficient, is annexed to the notes on the poem in this edition.
It is worth mentioning, that on this, as on a former occasion, an adversary of Dryden chose
to select one of his own poems as a contrast to his latter opinions. The "Religio Laici" was
reprinted, and carefully opponed to the various passages of "The Hind and the Panther," which
appeared most contradictory to its tenets. But while the Grub-street editor exulted in successfully
pointing out the inconsistency between Dryden's earlier and later religious opinions, he was
incapable of observing, that the change was adopted in consequence of the same unbroken train
of reasoning, and that Dryden, when he wrote the "Religio Laici" was under the impulse of the
same conviction, which, further prosecuted, led him to acquiesce in the faith of Rome.

The king appears to have been hardly less anxious to promote the dispersion of "The Hind I
and the Panther," than the Protestant party to ridicule the piece and its author. It was printed
about the same time at London and in Edinburgh, where a printing-press was maintained in Holyrood
House, for the dispersion of tracts favouring the Catholic religion. The poem went rapidly
through two or three editions; a circumstance rather to be imputed to the celebrity of the
author, and to the anxiety which foes, as well as friends, entertained to learn his sentiments,
than to any disposition to acquiesce in his arguments.

But Dryden's efforts in favour of the Catholic cause were not limited to this controversial
poem. He is said to have been at first employed by the court, in translating Varillas's "History
of Heresies," a work held in considerable estimation by the Catholic divines. Accordingly,
an entry to that purpose was made by Tonson in the Stationers' books, of such a translation
made by Dryden at his Majesty's command. This circumstance is also mentioned by Burnet, who
adds, in very coarse and abusive terms, that the success of his own remarks having destroyed
the character of Varillas as an historian, the disappointed translator revenged himself by
the severe character of the Buzzard, under which the future Bishop of Sarum is depicted in
"The Hind and the Panther."[14] The credulity of Burnet, especially where his vanity was concerned
was unbounded; and there seems room to trace Dryden's attack upon him, rather to some real
or supposed concern in the controversy about the Duchess of York's papers, so often alluded
to in the poem, than to the commentary on Varillas, which is not once mentioned. Yet it seems
certain that Dryden entertained thoughts of translating "The History of Heresies;" and, for
whatever reason, laid the task aside. He soon after was engaged in a task, of a kind as unpromising
as remote from his poetical studies, and connected, in the same close degree, with the religious
views of the unfortunate James II. This was no other than the translation of "The Life of St.
Francis Xavier," one of the last adopted saints of the Catholic Church, at least whose merits
and supposed miracles were those of a missionary. Xavier is perhaps among the latest also,
whose renown for sanctity, and the powers attending it, appears to have been extensive even
while he was yet alive.[15] Above all, he was of the order of Jesuits, and the very saint to
whom Mary of Este had addressed her vows, in hopes to secure a Catholic successor to the throne
of England.[16] It was, therefore, natural enough, that Dryden should have employed himself
in translating the life of a saint, whose virtues must at that time have appeared so peculiarly
meritorious; whose praises were so acceptable to his patroness; and whose miracles were wrought
for the credit of the Catholic Church, within so late a period, besides, the work had been
composed by Bartoli, in Portuguese; and by Bouhours, in French. With the merits of the latter
we are well acquainted; of the former, Dryden speaks highly in the dedication. It may perhaps
be more surprising, that the present editor should have retained this translation, than that
Dryden should have undertaken it. But surely the only work of this very particular and enthusiastic
nature, which the modern English language has to exhibit, was worthy of preservation, were
it but as a curiosity. The creed and the character of Catholic faith are now so much forgotten
among us (popularly speaking), that, in reading the "Life of Xavier," the Protestant finds
himself in a new and enchanted land. The motives, and the incidents and the doctrines, are
alike new to him, and, indeed, occasionally form a strange contrast among themselves. There
are few who can read, without a sentiment of admiration, the heroic devotion with which, from
the highest principle of duty, Xavier exposes himself to hardship, to danger, to death itself,
that he may win souls to the Christian faith. The most rigid Protestant, and the most indifferent
philosopher, cannot deny to him the courage and patience of a martyr, with the good sense,
resolution, ready wit, and address of the best negotiator, that ever went upon a temporal embassy.
It is well that our admiration is qualified by narrations so monstrous, as his actually restoring
the dead to life;[17] so profane, as the inference concerning the sweating crucifix;[18] so
trivial and absurd, as a crab's fishing up the saint's cross, which had fallen into the sea;
and,[19] to conclude, so shocking to humanity, as the account of the saint passing by the house
of his ancestors, the abode of his aged mother, on his road to leave Europe for ever, and conceiving
he did God good service in denying himself the melancholy consolation of a last farewell.[20]
Altogether, it forms a curious picture of the human mind, strung to a pitch of enthusiasm,
which we can only learn from such narratives: and those to whom this affords no amusement,
may glean some curious particulars from the "Life of Xavier," concerning the state of India
and Japan, at the time of his mission, as well as of the internal regulations and singular
policy adopted by the society, of which the saint was a member. Besides the "Life of Xavier,"
Dryden is said to have translated Bossuet's "Exposition of the Catholic Doctrine;" but for
this we have but slight authority.[21]

Dryden's political and polemic discussions naturally interfered at this period with his more
general poetical studies. About the period of James's accession, Tonson had indeed published
a second volume of Miscellanies, to which our poet contributed a critical preface, with various
translations from Virgil, Lucretius, and Theocritus and four Odes of Horace; of which the third
of the First Book is happily applied to Lord Roscommon, and the twenty-ninth to Lawrence Hyde,
Earl of Rochester. Upon these and his other translations Garth has the following striking and
forcible observations, though expressed in language somewhat quaint. "I cannot pass by that
admirable English poet, without endeavouring to make his country sensible of the obligations
they have to his Muse. Whether they consider the flowing grace of his versification, the vigorous
sallies of his fancy, or the peculiar delicacy of his periods, they all discover excellencies
never to be enough admired. If they trace him from the first productions of his youth to the
last performances of his age, they will find, that as the tyranny of rhyme never imposed on
the perspicuity of sense, so a languid sense never wanted to be set off by the harmony of rhyme.
And, as his early works wanted no maturity, so his latter wanted no force or spirit. The falling
off of his hair had no other consequence than to make his laurels be seen the more.

"As a translator, he was just; as an inventor, he was rich. His versions of some parts of Lucretius,
Horace, Homer, and Virgil, throughout gave him a just pretence to that compliment which was
made to Monsieur d'Ablancourt, a celebrated French translator. It is uncertain who have the
greatest obligation to him, the dead or the living.

"With all these wondrous talents, he was libelled, in his lifetime, by the very men who had
no other excellencies but as they were his imitators Where he was allowed to have sentiments
superior to all others, they charged him with theft. But how did he steal? no otherwise than
like those who steal beggars' children, only to clothe them the better."

In this reign Dryden wrote the first Ode to St. Cecilia, for her festival, in 1687. This and
the Ode to the Memory of Mrs. Anne Killigrew, a performance much in the manner of Cowley, and
which has been admired perhaps fully as much as it merits, were the only pieces of general
poetry which he produced between the accession of James and the Revolution. It was, however,
about this time, that the poet became acquainted with the simple and beautiful hymns of the
Catholic ritual, the only pieces of uninspired sacred poetry which are worthy of the purpose
to which they are dedicated. It is impossible to hear the "Dies Iræ;" or the "Stabat Mater
dolorosa," without feeling, that the stately simplicity of the language, differing almost as
widely from classical poetry as from that of modern nations, awes the congregation, like the
architecture of the Gothic cathedrals in which they are chanted. The ornaments which are wanting
to these striking effusions of devotion, are precisely such as would diminish their grand and
solemn effect; and nothing but the cogent and irresistible propriety of addressing the Divinity
in a language understood by the whole worshipping assembly, could have justified the discarding
these magnificent hymns from the reformed worship. We must suppose that Dryden, as a poet,
was interested in the poetical part of the religion which he had chosen; and his translation
of "Veni, Creator Spiritus," which was probably recommended to him as being the favourite hymn
of St. Francis Xavier,[22] shows that they did so. But it is less generally known, that the
English Catholics have preserved two other translations ascribed to Dryden; one of the "Te
Deum," the other of the hymn for St. John's Eve; with which the public are here, for the first
time, presented, as the transcripts with which I have been favoured reached me too late to
be inserted in the poet's works.[23] I think most of my readers will join with me in opinion,
that both their beauties and faults are such as ascertain their authenticity.

  THE TE DEUM.

  Thee, Sovereign God, our grateful accents praise;
  We own thee Lord, and bless thy wondrous ways;
  To thee, Eternal Father, earth's whole frame
  With loudest trumpets sounds immortal fame.
  Lord God of Hosts! for thee the heavenly powers,
  With sounding anthems, fill the vaulted towers.
  Thy Cherubims thee Holy, Holy, Holy, cry;
  Thrice Holy, all the Seraphims reply,
  And thrice returning echoes endless songs supply.
  Both heaven and earth thy majesty display;
  They owe their beauty to thy glorious ray.
  Thy praises fill the loud apostles' quire:
  The train of prophets in the song conspire.
  Legions of martyrs in the chorus shine,
  And vocal blood with vocal music join.[24]
  By these thy church, inspired by heavenly art,
  Around the world maintains a second part,
  And tunes her sweetest notes, O God, to thee,
  The Father of unbounded majesty;
  The Son, adored co-partner of thy seat,
  And equal everlasting Paraclete.
  Thou King of Glory, Christ, of the Most High,
  Thou co-eternal filial Deity;
  Thou who, to save the world's impending doom,
  Vouchsafst to dwell within a virgin's womb;
  Old tyrant Death disarmed, before thee flew
  The bolts of heaven, and back the foldings drew,
  To give access, and make thy faithful way;
  From God's right hand thy filial beams display.
  Thou art to judge the living and the dead;
  Then spare those souls for whom thy veins have bled.
  O take us up amongst thy bless'd above,
  To share with them thy everlasting love.
  Preserve, O Lord! thy people, and enhance
  Thy blessing on thine own inheritance.
  For ever raise their hearts, and rule their ways,
  Each day we bless thee, and proclaim thy praise;
  No age shall fail to celebrate thy name,
  No hour neglect thy everlasting fame.
  Preserve our souls, O Lord, this day from ill;
  Have mercy on us, Lord, have mercy still:
  As we have hoped, do thou reward our pain;
  We've hoped in thee--let not our hope be vain.

  HYMN FOR ST. JOHN'S EVE.[25]

  (29th June.)

  O sylvan prophet! whose eternal fame
  Echoes from Judah's hills and Jordan's stream;
  The music of our numbers raise,
  And tune our voices to thy praise.

  A messenger from high Olympus came
  To bear the tidings of thy life and name,
  And told thy sire each prodigy
  That Heaven designed to work in thee.

  Hearing the news, and doubting in surprise,
  His falt'ring speech in fettered accent dies;
  But Providence, with happy choice,
  In thee restored thy father's voice.

  In the recess of Nature's dark abode,
  Though still enclosed, yet knewest thou thy God;
  Whilst each glad parent told and blessed
  The secrets of each other's breast.

A characteristic of James's administration was rigid economy, not only in ordinary matters,
but towards his own partisans;--a wretched quality in a prince, who was attempting a great
and unpopular revolution both in religion and politics, and ought, by his liberality, and even
profusion, to have attached the hearts and excited the hopes of those fiery and unsettled spirits,
who are ever foremost in times of national tumult. Dryden, one of his most efficient and zealous
supporters, and who had taken the step which of all others was calculated to please James,
received only, as we have seen, after the interval of nearly a year from that prince's accession,
an addition of £100 to his yearly pension. There may, however, on occasion of "The Hind and
the Panther," the controversy with Stillingfleet, and other works undertaken with an express
view to the royal interest, have been private communications of James's favour. But Dryden,
always ready to supply with hope the deficiency of present possession, went on his literary
course rejoicing. A lively epistle to his friend Etherege, then envoy for James at Ratisbon,
shows the lightness and buoyancy of his spirits at this supposed auspicious period.[26]

An event, deemed of the utmost and most beneficial importance to the family of Stuart, but
which, according to their usual ill-fortune, helped to precipitate their ruin, next called
forth the public gratulation of the poet-laureate. This was the birth of that "son of prayers"
prophesied in the dedication to Xavier, whom the English, with obstinate incredulity, long
chose to consider as an impostor, grafted upon the royal line to the prejudice of the Protestant
succession. Dryden's "Britannia Rediviva" hailed, with the enthusiasm of a Catholic and a poet,
the very event which, removing all hope of succession in the course of nature, precipitated
the measures of the Prince of Orange, exhausted the patience of the exasperated people, and
led them violently to extirpate a hated dynasty, which seemed likely to be protracted by a
new reign. The merits of the poem have been considered in the introductory remarks prefixed
in this edition.[27]

Whatever hopes Dryden may have conceived in consequence of "The Hind and the Panther," "Britannia
Rediviva," and other works favourable to the cause of James and of his religion, they were
suddenly and for ever blighted by the REVOLUTION. It cannot be supposed that the poet viewed
without anxiety the crisis while yet at a distance; and perhaps his own tale of the Swallows
may have begun to bear, even to the author, the air of a prophecy. He is said, in an obscure
libel, to have been among those courtiers who encouraged, by frequent visits, the camp on Hounslow
Heath,[28] upon which the king had grounded his hopes of subduing the contumacy of his subjects,
and repelling the invasion of the Prince of Orange. If so, he must there have learned how unwilling
the troops were to second their monarch in his unpopular and unconstitutional attempts; and
must have sadly anticipated the event of a struggle between a king and his whole people. When
this memorable catastrophe had taken place, our author found himself at once exposed to all
the insult, calumny, and sarcasm with which a successful party in politics never fail to overwhelm
their discomfited adversaries But, what he must have felt yet more severely, the unpopularity
of his religion and principles rendered it not merely unsafe, but absolutely impossible, for
him to make retaliation His powers of satire, at this period, were of no more use to Dryden
than a sword to a man who cannot draw it; only serving to render the pleasure of insulting
him more poignant to his enemies, and the necessity of passive submission more bitter to himself.
Of the numerous satires, libels, songs, parodies, and pasquinades, which solemnised the downfall
of Popery and of James, Dryden had not only some exclusively dedicated to his case, but engaged
a portion, more or less, of almost every one which appeared. Scarce Father Petre, or the Papal
envoy Adda, themselves, were more distinguished, by these lampoons, than the poet-laureate;
the unsparing exertion of whose satirical powers, as well as his unrivalled literary pre-eminence,
had excited a strong party against him among the inferior wits, whose political antipathy was
aggravated by ancient resentment and literary envy. An extract from one of each kind may serve
to show how very little wit was judged necessary by Dryden's contemporaries to a successful
attack upon him.[29]  Nor was the "pelting of this pitiless storm" of abusive raillery the
worst evil to which our author was subjected. The religion which he professed rendered him
incapable of holding any office under the new government, even if he could have bended his
political principles to take the oaths to William and Mary. We may easily believe that Dryden's
old friend Dorset, now lord high-chamberlain, felt repugnance to vacate the places of poet-laureate
and royal historiographer by removing the man in England most capable of filling them; but
the sacrifice was inevitable. Dryden's own feelings, on losing the situation of poet-laureate,
must have been greatly aggravated by the selection of his despised opponent Shadwell as his
successor; a scribbler whom, in "Mac-Flecknoe," he had himself placed pre-eminent in the regions
of dulness, being now, so far as royal mandate can arrange such precedence, raised in his stead
as chief among English poets. This very remarkable coincidence has led several of Dryden's
biographers, and Dr. Johnson among others, to suppose, that the satire was actually written
to ridicule Shadwell's elevation to the honours of the laurel; though nothing is more certain
than that it was published while Dryden was himself laureate, and could be hardly supposed
to anticipate the object of his satire becoming his successor. Shadwell, however, possessed
merits with King William, which were probably deemed by that prince of more importance than
all the genius of Shakespeare, Milton, and Dryden if it could have been combined in one individual.
He was a staunch Whig, and had suffered under the former government, being "silenced as a non-conforming
poet;" the doors of the theatre closed against his plays; and, if he may himself be believed,
even his life endangered, not only by the slow process of starving, but some more active proceeding
of his powerful enemies.[30] Shadwell, moreover, had not failed to hail the dawn of the Revolution
by a congratulatory poem to the Prince of Orange, and to gratulate its completion by another
inscribed to Queen Mary on her arrival. In every point of view, his principles, fidelity, and
alacrity, claimed William's countenance; he was presented to him by Dorset, not as the best
poet, but as the most honest man, politically speaking, among the competitors;[31] and accordingly
succeeded to Dryden's situation as poet-laureate and royal historiographer, with the appointment
of £300 a year. Shadwell, as might have been expected, triumphed in his success over his great
antagonist; but his triumph was expressed in strains which showed he was totally unworthy of
it.[32]

Dryden, deprived by the Revolution of present possession and future hope, was now reduced to
the same, or a worse situation, than he had occupied in the year of the Restoration, his income
resting almost entirely upon his literary exertions, his expenses increased by the necessity
of providing and educating his family, and the advantage of his high reputation perhaps more
than counterbalanced by the popular prejudice against his religion and party. So situated,
he patiently and prudently bent to the storm which he could not resist; and though he might
privately circulate a few light pieces in favour of the exiled family, as the "Lady's Song,"[33]
and the translation of Pitcairn's beautiful Epitaph[34] on the Viscount of Dundee, it seems
certain that he made no formal attack on the government either in verse or prose. Those who
imputed to him the satires on the Revolution, called "Suum Cuique," and "Tarquin and Tullia,"
did injustice both to his prudence and his poetry. The last, and probably both satires, were
written by Mainwaring, who lived to be sorry for what he had done.

The theatre again became Dryden's immediate resource. Indeed, the very first play Queen Mary
attended was one of our poet's, which had been prohibited during the reign of James II. But
the revival of the "Spanish Friar" could afford but little gratification to the author, whose
newly-adopted religion is so severely satirised in the person of Father Dominic. Nor was this
ill-fated representation doomed to afford more pleasure to the personage by whom it was appointed.
For the audience applied the numerous passages, concerning the deposing the old king and planting
a female usurper on the throne, to the memorable change which had just taken place; and all
eyes were fixed upon Queen Mary, with an expression which threw her into extreme confusion.[35]

Dryden, after the Revolution, began to lay the foundation for a new structure of fame and popularity
in the tragedy of "Don Sebastian." This tragedy, which has been justly regarded as the chef-d'oeuvre
of his plays, was not, he has informed us, "huddled up in haste." The author knew the circumstances
in which he stood, while, as he expresses it, his ungenerous enemies were taking advantage
of the times to ruin his reputation; and was conscious, that the full exertion of his genius
was necessary to secure a favourable reception from an audience prepossessed against him and
his tenets. Nor did he neglect to smooth the way, by inscribing the piece to the Earl of Leicester,
brother of Algernon Sidney, who had borne arms against Charles in the civil war; and yet, Whig
or republican as he was, had taste and feeling enough to patronise the degraded laureate and
proscribed Catholic. The dedication turns upon the philosophical and moderate use of political
victory, the liberality of considering the friend rather than the cause, the dignity of forgiving
and relieving the fallen adversary; themes, upon which the eloquence of the suffering party
is usually unbounded although sometimes forgotten when they come again into power. With all
this deprecatory reasoning, Dryden does not recede, or hint at receding, one inch from his
principles, but concludes his preface with a resolution to adopt the counsel of the classic:

  "Tu ne cede malis, sed contra audentior ito."

The merits of this beautiful tragedy I have attempted to analyse in another place,[36] and
at considerable length. It was brought forward in 1690 with great theatrical pomp.[37] But
with all these advantages, the first reception of "Don Sebastian" was but cool; nor was it
until several retrenchments and alterations had been made, that it rose to the high pitch in
public favour which it maintained for many years, and deserved to maintain for ever.

In the same year, "Amphitryon," in which Dryden displays his comic powers to more advantage
than anywhere, excepting in the "Spanish Friar," was acted with great applause, calling forth
the gratulations even of Milbourne, who afterwards made so violent an attack upon the translation
of Virgil. The comedy was inscribed to Sir William Leveson Gower, whose name, well known in
the history of the Revolution, may be supposed to have been invoked as a talisman against misconstructions,
to which Dryden's situation so peculiarly exposed him, and to which he plainly alludes in the
prologue.[38] Our author's choice of this patron was probably dictated by Sir William Gower's
connection with the Earl of Rochester, whose grand-daughter he had married.

Encouraged by the revival of his popularity, Dryden now ventured to bring forward the opera
of "King Arthur," originally designed as an entertainment to Charles II; "Albion and Albanius"
being written as a sort of introductory masque upon the occasion.[39] When we consider the
strong and even violent political tendency of that prefatory piece, we may readily suppose,
that the opera was originally written in a strain very different from the present; and that
much must have been softened, altered, and erased, ere a play, designed to gratulate the discovery
of the Rye-house Plot, could, without hazard, be acted after the Revolution. The odious, though
necessary, task of defacing his own labours, was sufficiently disgusting to the poet, who complains,
that "not to offend the present times, nor a government which has hitherto protected me, I
have been obliged so much to alter the first design, and take away so many beauties from the
writing, that it is now no more what it was formerly, than the present ship of the Royal Sovereign,
after so often taking down and altering is the vessel it was at the first building." Persevering
in the prudent system of seeking patrons among those whose patronage was rendered effectual
by their influence with the prevailing party, Dryden prefixed to "King Arthur" a beautiful
dedication to the Marquis of Halifax, to whose cautious and nice policy he ascribes the nation's
escape from the horrors of civil war, which seemed impending in the latter years of Charles
II; and he has not failed, at the same time, to pay a passing tribute to the merits of his
original and good-humoured master. The music of "King Arthur" being composed by Purcel, gave
Dryden occasion to make that eminent musician some well-deserved compliments which were probably
designed as a peace-offering for the injudicious preference given to Grabut in the introduction
to "Albion and Albanius."[40] The dances were composed by Priest; and the whole piece was eminently
successful. Its good fortune, however, was imputed, by the envious, to a lively song in the
last act,[41] which had little or nothing to do with the business of the piece. In this opera
ended all the hopes which the world might entertain of an epic poem from Dryden on the subject
of King Arthur.

Our author was by no means so fortunate in "Cleomenes," his next dramatic effort. The times
were something changed since the Revolution The Tories, who had originally contributed greatly
to that event, had repented them of abandoning the Stuart family, and, one after another, were
returning to their attachment to James. It is probable that this gave new courage to Dryden,
who although upon the accession of King William he saw himself a member of an odious and proscribed
sect, now belonged to a broad political faction, which a variety of events was daily increasing.
Hence his former caution was diminished, and the suspicion of his enemies increased in proportion.
The choice of the subject, the history of a Spartan prince exiled from his kingdom, and waiting
the assistance of a foreign monarch to regain it, corresponded too nearly with that of the
unfortunate James. The scene of a popular insurrection, where the minds of a whole people were
inflamed, was liable to misinterpretation. In short, the whole story of the Spartan Cleomenes
was capable of being wrested to political and Jacobitic purposes; and there wanted not many
to aver, that to such purposes it had been actually applied by Dryden. Neither was the state
of our author such at the time as to permit his pleading his own cause. The completion of the
piece having been interrupted by indisposition, was devolved upon his friend Southerne, who
revised and concluded the last act. The whispers of the author's enemies in the meantime procured
a prohibition, at least a suspension, of the representation of "Cleomenes" from the lord chamberlain.
The exertions of Hyde, Earl of Rochester, who, although a Tory, was possessed necessarily of
some influence as maternal uncle to the queen, procured a recall of this award against a play
which was in every respect truly inoffensive. But there was still a more insuperable obstacle
to its success. The plot is flat and unsatisfactory involving no great event, and in truth
being only the question, whether Cleomenes should or should not depart upon an expedition,
which appears far more hazardous than remaining where he was. The grave and stoical character
of the hero is more suitable to the French than the English stage; nor had the general conduct
of the play that interest, or perhaps bustle, which is necessary to fix the attention of the
promiscuous audience of London. In a theatre, where every man may, if he will, express his
dissatisfaction, in defiance of beaux-esprits, nobles, or mousquetaires, that which is dull
will seldom be long fashionable: "Cleomenes" was accordingly coldly received. Dryden published
it with a dedication to Lord Rochester, and the Life of Cleomenes prefixed, as translated from
Plutarch by Creech, that it might appear how false those reports were, which imputed to him
the composing a Jacobite play.

Omitting, for the present, Dryden's intermediate employments, I hasten to close his dramatic
career, by mentioning, that "Love Triumphant," his last play, was acted in 1692 with very bad
success. Those who look over this piece, which is in truth one of the worst our author ever
wrote, can be at no loss to discover sufficient reason for its condemnation. The comic part
approaches to farce, and the tragic unites the wild and unnatural changes and counter-changes
of the Spanish tragedy, with the involutions of unnatural and incestuous passion, which the
British audience has been always averse to admit as a legitimate subject of dramatic pity or
terror. But it cannot be supposed that Dryden received the failure with anything like an admission
of its justice. He was a veteran foiled in the last of his theatrical trials of skill, and
retreated forever from the stage, with expressions which transferred the blame from himself
to his judges; for, in the dedication to James, the fourth Earl of Salisbury, a relation of
Lady Elizabeth, and connected with the poet by a similarity of religious and political opinions,
he declares, that the characters of the persons in the drama are truly drawn, the fable not
injudiciously contrived, the changes of fortune not unartfully managed, and the catastrophe
happily introduced: thus leaving, were the author's opinion to be admitted as decisive, no
grounds upon which the critics could ground their opposition. The enemies of Dryden, as usual,
triumphed greatly in the fall of this piece;[42] and thus the dramatic career of Dryden began
and closed with bad success.

This Section cannot be more properly concluded than with the list[43] which Mr. Malone has
drawn out of Dryden's plays, with the respective dates of their being acted and published;
which is a correction and enlargement of that subjoined by the author himself to the opera
of "Prince Arthur." Henceforward we are to consider Dryden as unconnected with the stage.

PLAYS.                       Acted by        Entered at       Published
                                             Stationers'        in
                                             Hall.

 1.  THE WILD GALLANT. C.     The King's       Aug. 7, 1667.     1669.
                               Servants

 2.  THE RIVAL LADIES. T.C.       K.S.         June 27, 1661.    1664.

 3.  THE INDIAN EMPEROR. T.       K.S.         May 26, 1665.     1667.

 4.  SECRET LOVE, OR              K.S.         Aug. 7, 1667.     1668.
     THE MAIDEN QUEEN. C.

 5.  SIR MARTIN MAR-ALL. C.      The Duke       June 24, 1668.   1668.
                                of York's
                                 Servants

 6.  THE TEMPEST. C.              D.S.         Jan. 8, 1669-70.  1670.
                                                                 1671.

 7.  AN EVENING'S LOVE, OR        K.S.         Nov. 20, 1668.    Q also
     THE MOCK ASTROLOGER. C.                                     1668.

 8.  TYRANNIC LOVE, OR            K.S.         July 14, 1669     1670.
     THE ROYAL MARTYR, T.

 9.} THE CONQUEST OF              K.S.         Feb. 20, 1670-1   1672.
10.} GRANADA, TWO PARTS. T.

11.  MARRIAGE A-LA-MODE. C.       K.S.         Mar. 18, 1672-3.  1673.

12.  THE ASSIGNATION OR,          K.S.         Mar. 18, 1672-3.  1673.
     LOVE IN A NUNNERY. C.

13.  AMBOYNA. T.                  K.S.         June 26, 1673.    1673.

14. The State of Innocence. O.                 April 17, 1674.   1674.

15. Aureng-Zebe  T.               K.S.         Nov. 29, 1675.    1676.

16. All For Love. T.              K.S.         Jan. 31, 1677-8.  1678.

17. The Kind Keeper, or
            Mr. Limberham.  C.    D.S.         ................  1678.

18. Oedipus. T.                   D.S.         ................  1679.

19. Troilus and Cressida. T.      D.S.         April 11, 1679.   1679.

20. The Spanish Friar. T.C.       D.S.         ................  1681.

21. The Duke of Guise. T.         The United   ................  1683.
                                  Companies

22. Albion and Albanius. O.       U.C.         ................  1685.

23. Don Sebastian. T.             U.C.         ................  1690.

24. Amphitryon. C.                U.C.         ................  1690.

25. King Arthur. O.               U.C.         ................  1691.

26. Cleomenes. T.                 U.C.         ................  1692.

27. Love Triumphant. T.C.         U.C.         ................  1694.

FOOTNOTES

[1] It formed the machine on which Iris appeared (vol. vii.). I have been favoured by Samuel
Egerton Brydges, Esq., with the following "Extract from the Journal of Captain Christopher
Gunman, commander of his Royal Highness's yacht the Mary, lying in Calais pier, Tuesday, 18th
March:

  "1683-4,

  "March 18th. It was variable cloudy weather: this morning about seven
  o'clock saw in the firmament three suns, with two demi-rainbows; and
  all within one whole rainbow, in form and shape as here pourtrayed:

  The sun towards the left hand bore east, and that on the right hand
  bore south-east of me. I did sit and draw it as well as the time and
  place would permit me; for it was seen in its full form about the
  space of half an hour; but part of the rainbow did see above two
  hours. It appeared first at three-quarters past six, and was
  over-clouded at a quarter past seven. The wind north-by-west."

Mr. Gunman, the descendant of the captain, has lately had a picture on the subject painted
by Serres, the marine painter; which makes an interesting history-piece. It represents the
phenomenon in the heavens-- the harbour of Calais--and the yacht lying off it, etc. etc.

[2] This tradition is thus critically examined, and proved by Mr. Malone:--

"From a letter written by King James to the Prince of Orange, June 15, 1685, it appears, that
though the Duke of Monmouth landed at Lyme, in Dorsetshire, on Thursday evening, June 11th,
an account of his landing did not reach the King at Whitehall till Saturday morning the 13th.
The House of Commons, having met on that day at the usual hour, between nine and ten o'clock,
the news was soon afterwards communicated to them by a Message from the King, delivered by
the Earl of Middleton (to whom Etheredge afterwards wrote two poetical Epistles from Ratisbon).
Having voted and drawn up an Address to his Majesty, desiring him to take care of his royal
person, they adjourned to four o'clock; in which interval they went to Whitehall, presented
their Address, and then met again. Com. Jour. vol. ix. p. 735. About this time, therefore,
it may be presumed, the news transpired, and in an hour afterwards probably reached the Theatre,
where an audience was assembled at the representation of the opera of 'Albion and Albanius;'
for pays at that time began at four o'clock. It seems from Mr. Luttrell's MS. note, that the
first representation of this opera was on Saturday the 6th of June; and Downes (Roscius Ang.
p. 40) says, that in consequence of Monmouth's invasion, it was only performed six times; so
that the sixth representation was, without doubt, on Saturday, the 13th of June. An examination
of dates is generally fatal to tales of this kind: here, however, they certainly support the
tradition mentioned in the text."-- Life of Dryden, page 188.

[3] The expressions in the dedication are such as to preclude all idea but of profound respect:
"Sir, The value I have ever had for your writings, makes me impatient to peruse all treatises
that are crowned with your name; whereof, the last that fell into my hands was your 'Religio
Laici;' which expresses as well your great judgment in, as value for, religion: a thing too
rarely found in this age among gentlemen of your parts; and, I am confident (with the blessing
of God upon your endeavours), not unlikely to prove of great advantage to the public; since,
as Mr. Herbert well observes,

  "A verse may find him who a sermon flies,
  And turn delight into a sacrifice."

[4] Blount preserves indeed that affectation of respect for the doctrines of the established
church which decency imposes; but the tendency of his work is to decry all revelation. It is
founded on the noted work of Lord Herbert of Cherbury, "De Veritate." In these dispositions,
and already more than half a convert, I formed an unlucky intimacy with a young gentleman of
our college, whose name I shall spare. With a character less resolute, Mr. ---- had imbibed
the same religious opinions; and some Popish books, I know not through what channel, were conveyed
into his possession.

  "To take up half on trust, and half to try,
  Name it not faith, but bungling bigotry,
  Both knave and fool, the merchant we may call,
  To pay great sums, and to compound the small;
  For who would break with heaven, and would not break for all?"
                  GIBBON'S Memoirs of his own Life.

[6] In a libel in the "State Poems," vol. iii., Dryden is made to say,

  "One son turned me, I turned the other two,
  But had not an indulgence, sir, like you"--Page 244

[7] Vol. xviii.

[8] [Grounds have already been shown for thinking that Scott is mistaken here. I owe it to
an accomplished critic of my former work in the Saturday Review to take more notice than I
did in that work of Evelyn's entry in his diary, January 19, 1686. "Dryden, the famous play-writer
and his two sons, and Mrs. Nelly, miss to the late king, were said to go to mass. Such proselytes
are no great loss to the Church." I need only say, first, that it is obviously a mere rumour;
secondly, that it is known to be false as to Nell Gwynne, who abode in that purity of the Protestant
faith which had already differentiated her from others of Charles's favourites. As Evelyn's
anonymous informer was wrong in one part of his evidence, the error vitiates the other. It
may perhaps be noted here that Scott's positive assertion that Lady Elizabeth had been converted
before her husband is based only on a supposition of Malone's.--ED.]

[9] The grant bears this honourable consideration, which I extract from Mr. Malone's work:
"Pat. 2. Jac. p. 4. n. 1. Know ye, that we, for and in consideration of the many good and acceptable
services done by John Dryden, Master of Arts, to our late dearest brother King Charles the
Second, as also to us done and performed, and taking notice of the learning and eminent abilities
of the said J.D." etc.

[10] "Absalom and Achitophel," Part i. vol. ix.

[11] I am indebted for this anecdote to Mr. Octavius Gilchrist, the editor of the poems of
the witty Bishop Corbet. [No solid foundation for this tradition is known, though there is
a certain circumstantial verisimilitude about it. Rushton was and is in the midst of forest
scenery such as the poem describes, and it had been the seat of the persecuted Roman Catholic
family of Tresham, some of whose buildings, covered with emblems of their faith, survive to
this day. Here perhaps maybe mentioned another of the few local traditions respecting Dryden,
one too which has, I think, escaped mention as a rule hitherto. It was brought to my notice
by my friends Mrs. Hubbard and Dr. Sebastian Evans that there is a "Dryden's Walk" at Croxall
near Lichfield. I consulted guide-books and county histories in vain. But Lysons' "Magna Britannia"
informed me that Croxall passed from the Curzons to the Sackvilles early in the seventeenth
century, that the family occasionally lived there, and that Dryden is traditionally said to
have visited Dorset there. Croxall is now a station on the Midland Railway between Burton and
Tamworth.--ED.]

[12] See a long note upon this subject, vol. x.

[13] That Prior was discontented with his share of preferment, appears from the verses entitled,
"Earl Robert's Mice," and an angry expostulation elsewhere:

  "My friend Charles Montague's preferred;
  Nor would I have it long observed,
  That one mouse eats while t'other's starved.'

There is a popular tradition, but no farther to be relied on than as showing the importance
attached to the "Town and Country Mouse," which says, that Dorset, in presenting Montague to
King William, said, "I have brought a Mouse to wait on your Majesty." "I will make a man of
him," said the king; and settled a pension of £500 upon the fortunate satirist.

[14] The passage, as quoted at length by Mr. Malone, removes an obscurity which puzzled former
biographers, at least as far as anything can be made clear, which must ultimately depend upon
such clumsy diction as the following. "It (the answer of Burnet) will perhaps be a little longer
a digesting to Mons. Varillas, than it was a preparing to me.

[15] In the "Staple of News," act iii. scene 2, Jonson talks of the miracles done by the Jesuits
in Japan and China, as current articles of intelligence.

[16] In the Dedication to the Queen, this is stated with a gravity suitable to the occasion.
"The reverend author of this Life, in his dedication to his Most Christian Majesty, affirms,
that France was owing for him to the intercession of St. Francis Xavier. That Anne of Austria,
his mother, after twenty years of barrenness, had recourse to heaven, by her fervent prayers,
to draw down that blessing, and addressed her devotions, in a particular manner, to this holy
apostle of the Indies. I know not, madam, whether I may presume to tell the world, that your
Majesty has chosen this great saint for one of your celestial patrons, though I am sure you
will never be ashamed of owning so glorious an intercessor; not even in a country where the
doctrine of the holy church is questioned, and those religious addresses ridiculed. Your Majesty,
I doubt not, has the inward satisfaction of knowing, that such pious prayers have not been
unprofitable to you; and the nation may one day come to understand, how happy it will be for
them to have a son of prayers ruling over them."

[17] Vol. xvi.

[18] Ibid.

[19] Ibid.

[20] Ibid.

[21] "In the Bodleian Catalogue another work is attributed to our author, on very slight grounds:
'An Exposition of the Doctrine of the Catholic Church,' translated from Bossuet, Bishop of
Meaux, and published at London in 1685. The only authority for attributing this translation
to Dryden, should seem to have been the following note in Bishop Barlow's handwriting, at the
bottom of the title-page of the copy belonging to the Bodleian Library:

"'By Mr. Dryden, then only a poet, now a papist too: may be, he was a papist before, but not
known till of late.'

"This book had belonged to Bishop Barlow, who died in 1691."--MALONE.

[22] "Before the beginning of every canonical hour, he always said the hymn of 'Veni, Creator
Spiritus;' and it was observed that while he said it, his countenance was enlightened, as if
the Holy Ghost, whom he invoked, was visibly descended on him."--Vol. xvi.

[23][I have received a valuable communication as to Dryden's Hymns, which will be noticed in
its proper place.--ED.]

[24] This line alone speaks Dryden in every syllable.

[25] I subjoin the original hymn, which is supposed to have been composed by Lactantius.

  Ut queant, laxis resonare fibris,
  Mira gestorum, famuli, tuorum,
  Solve polluti labii meatum,
        Sancte Joannes!

  Nunciens, celso veniens Olympo,
  Te, Patri, magnum fore nasciturum,
  Nomen, et vitæ seriem gerendæ,
        Ordine promit.

  Ille promissi dubius superni,
  Perdidit promptæ modulos loquelæ;
  Sed reformasti gemitus peremptæ
        Organa vocis.

  Ventris abstruso recubans cubili,
  Senseras regem, thalamo manentem;
  Hinc Parens nati meritis uterque
        Abdita pandit.

[26] [Some matter concerning Dryden and Etherege will find, perhaps, most appropriate place
in commenting on this Poem, vol. xi.--ED.]

[27] Vol. x.

[28]
  "Here duly swarm prodigious wights,
  And strange variety of sights,
  As ladies lewd, and foppish knights,
  Priests, poets, pimps, and parasites;
  Which now we'll spare, and only mention
  The hungry bard that writes for pension;
  Old Squib (who's sometimes here, I'm told),
  That oft has with his prince made bold,
  Called the late king a saunt'ring cully,
  To magnify the Gallic bully,
  Who lately put a senseless banter
  Upon the world, with Hind and Panther,
  Making the beasts and birds o'the wood
  Doubt, what he ne'er understood,
  Deep secrets in philosophy,
  And mysteries in theology,
  All sung in wretched poetry;
  Which rumbling piece is as much farce all,
  As his true mirror, the "Rehearsal;"
  For which he has been soundly banged,
  But ha'n't his just reward till hanged."
Poem on the Camp at Hounslow.

[29] Extracts from "The Address of John Dryden, Laureat, to his Highness the Prince of Orange:"

  "In all the hosannas our whole world's applause,
  Illustrious champion of our church and laws!
  Accept, great Nassau! from unworthy me,
  Amongst the adoring crowd, a bonded knee;
  Nor scruple, sir, to hear my echoing lyre,
  Strung, tuned, and joined to the universal choir;
  From my suspected mouth thy glories told,
  A known out-lyer from the English fold."

After renewing the old reproach about Cromwell:

  "If thus all this I could unblushing write,
  Fear not that pen that shall thy praise indite,
  When high-born blood my adoration draws,
  Exalted glory and unblemished cause;
  A theme so all divine my muse shall wing,
  What is't for thee, great prince, I will not sing?
  No bounds shall stop my Pegasean flight,
  I'll spot my Hind, and make my Panther white.
         *       *       *       *       *
  But if, great prince, my feeble strength shall fail,
  Thy theme I'll to my successors entail;
  My heirs the unfinished subject shall complete:
  I have a son, and he, by all that's great,
  That very son (and trust my oaths, I swore
  As much to my great master James before)
  Shall, by his sire's example, Rome renounce,
  For he, young stripling, has turned but once;
  That Oxford nursling, that sweet hopeful boy,
  His father's and that once Ignatian joy,
  Designed for a new Bellarmin Goliah,
  Under the great Gamaliel, Obadiah!
  This youth, great sir, shall your fame's trumpets blow,
  And soar when my dull wings shall flag below.
         *       *       *       *       *
  Why should I blush to turn, when my defence
  And plea's so plain?--for if Omnipotence
  Be the highest attribute that heaven can boast,
  That's the truest church that heaven resembles most.
  The tables then are turned: and 'tis confest,
  The strongest and the mightiest is the best:
  In all my changes I'm on the right side,
  And by the same great reason justified.
  When the bold Crescent late attacked the Cross,
  Resolved the empire of the world to engross,
  Had tottering Vienna's walls but failed,
  And Turkey over Christendom prevailed,
  Long ere this I had crossed the Dardanello,
  And reigned the mighty Mahomet's hail fellow;
  Quitting my duller hopes, the poor renown
  Of Eton College, or a Dublin gown,
  And commenced graduate in the grand divan,
  Had reigned a more immortal Mussulman."

The lines which follow are taken from "The Deliverance," a poem to the Prince of Orange, by
a Person of Quality. 9th February, 1688-9.

  "Alas! how cruel is a poet's fate!
  Or who indeed would be a laureate,
  That must or fall or turn with every change of state?
  Poor bard! if thy hot zeal for loyal Wem[29a]
  Forbids thy tacking, sing his requiem;
  Sing something, prithee, to ensure thy thumb;
  Nothing but conscience strikes a poet dumb.
  Conscience, that dull chimera of the schools,
  A learned imposition upon fools,
  Thou, Dryden, art not silenced with such stuff,
  Egad thy conscience has been large enough.
  But here are loyal subjects still, and foes,
  Many to mourn, for many to oppose.
  Shall thy great master, thy almighty Jove,
  Whom thou to place above the gods bust strove,
  Shall be from David's throne so early fall,
  And laureate Dryden not one tear let fall;
  Nor sings the bard his exit in one poor pastoral?
  Thee fear confines, thee, Dryden, fear confines,
  And grief, not shame, stops thy recanting lines.
  Our Damon is as generous as great,
  And well could pardon tears that love create,
  Shouldst thou, in justice to thy vexed soul,
  Not sing to him but thy lost lord condole.
  But silence is a damning error, John;
  I'd or my master or myself bemoan."
[29a] Lord Jeffries, Baron of Wem.

[30] In the dedication of "Bury-Fair" to his patron the Earl of Dorset, he claims the merit
due to his political constancy and sufferings: "I never could recant in the worst of times,
when my ruin was designed, and my life was sought, and for near ten years I was kept from the
exercise of that profession which had afforded me a competent subsistence; and surely I shall
not now do it, when there is a liberty of speaking common sense, which, though not long since
forbidden, is now grown current."

[31] See Cibber or Shiels's Life of Shadwell.

[32]
  "These wretched poëtitos, who got praise
  For writing most confounded loyal plays,
  With viler, coarser jests than at Bear-garden,
  And silly Grub-street songs worse than Tom-farthing.
  If any noble patriot did excel,
  His own and country's rights defending well,
  These yelping curs were straight loo'd on to bark,
  On the deserving man to set a mark.
  These abject, fawning parasites and knaves,
  Since they were such, would have all others slaves.
  'Twas precious loyalty that was thought fit
  To atone for want of honesty and wit.
  No wonder common-sense was all cried down,
  And noise and nonsense swaggered through the town.
  Our author, then opprest, would have you know it,
  Was silenced for a nonconformist poet;
  In those hard times he bore the utmost test,
  And now he swears he's loyal as the best.
  Now, sirs, since common-sense has won the day,
  Be kind to this, as to his last year's play.
  His friends stood firmly to him when distressed;
  He hopes the number is not now decreased.
  He found esteem from those he valued most;
  Proud of his friends, he of his foes could boast."

Prologue to Bury-Fair.

[33] Vol. xi.

[34] Ibid.

[35] Introduct. to "Spanish Friar," vol. vi.

[36] Vol. vii.

[37] "A play well-dressed, you know, is half in half, as a great writer says. The Morocco dresses
when new, formerly for 'Sebastian,' they say, enlivened the play as much as the 'pudding and
dumpling' song did Merlin."--The Female Wits, a comedy by Mountfort.

[38]
  "The labouring bee, when his sharp sting is gone,
  Forgets his golden work, and turns a drone:
  Such is a satire, when you take away
  That rage, in which his noble vigour lay.
  What gain you by not suffering him to tease ye?
  He neither can offend you now, nor please ye.
  The honey-bag and venom lay so near,
  That both together you resolved to tear;
  And lost your pleasure to secure your fear.
  How can he show his manhood, if you bind him
  To box, like boys, with one hand tied behind him?
  This is plain levelling of wit; in which
  The poor has all the advantage, not the rich.
  The blockhead stands excused, for wanting sense;
  And wits turn blockheads in their own defence."

[39]  in text, Section VI.]

[40]  in text, Section VI.]

[41] 

[42] For example, in a Session of the Poets, under the fictitious name of Matthew Coppinger,
Dryden is thus irreverently introduced:

  "A reverend grisly elder first appeared,
  With solemn pace through the divided herd;
  Apollo, laughing at his clumsy mien,
  Pronounced him straight the poets' alderman.
  His labouring muse did many years excel
  In ill inventing, and translating well,
  Till 'Love Triumphant' did the cheat reveal.
         *       *       *       *       *
  So when appears, midst sprightly births, a sot,
  Whatever was the other offspring's lot,
  This we are sure was lawfully begot."

[43] [This list requires a certain amount of correction and completion.

The evil consequences of the Revolution upon Dryden's character and fortunes began to abate
sensibly within a year or two after that event. It is well known, that King William's popularity
was as short-lived as it had been universal. All parties gradually drew off from the king,
under their ancient standards. The clergy returned to their maxims of hereditary right, the
Tories to their attachment to the house of Stuart, the Whigs to their jealousy of the royal
authority. Dryden, we have already observed, so lately left in a small and detested party,
was now among multitudes who, from whatever contradictory motives, were joined in opposition
to the government and some of his kinsmen; particularly with John Driden of Chesterton, his
first cousin; with whom, till his death, he lived upon terms of uninterrupted friendship. The
influence of Clarendon and Rochester, the Queen's uncles, were, we have seen, often exerted
in the poet's favour; and through them, he became connected with the powerful families with
which they were allied. Dorset, by whom he had been deprived of his office, seems to have softened
this harsh, though indispensable, exertion of authority, by a liberal present; and to his bounty
Dryden had frequently recourse in cases of emergency.[1] Indeed, upon one occasion it is said
to have been administered in a mode savouring more of ostentation than delicacy; for there
is a tradition that Dryden and Tom Brown, being invited to dine with the lord chamberlain,
found under their covers, the one a bank-note for £100, the other for £50. I have already noticed,
that these pecuniary benefactions were not held so degrading in that age as at present; and,
probably, many of Dryden's opulent and noble friends, took, like Dorset, occasional opportunities
of supplying wants, which neither royal munificence, nor the favour of the public, now enabled
the poet fully to provide for.

If Dryden's critical empire over literature was at any time interrupted by the mischances of
his political party, it was in abeyance for a very short period; since, soon after the Revolution,
he appears to have regained, and maintained till his death, that sort of authority in Will's
coffeehouse, to which we have frequently had occasion to allude. His supremacy, indeed, seems
to have been so effectually established, that a "pinch out of Dryden's snuff-box"[2] was equal
to taking a degree in that academy of wit. Among those by whom it was frequented, Southerne
and Congreve were principally distinguished by Dryden's friendship. His intimacy with the former,
though oddly commenced, seems soon to have ripened into such sincere friendship, that the aged
poet selected Southerne to finish "Cleomenes," and addressed to him an epistle of condolence
on the failure of "The Wives' Excuse," which, as he delicately expresses it, "was with a kind
civility dismissed" from the scene. This was indeed an occasion in which even Dryden could
tell, from experience, how much the sympathy of friends was necessary to soothe the injured
feelings of an author. In truth, it was impossible that Dryden could be insensible to the brilliancy
of Congreve's comic dialogue, which has never been equalled by any English dramatist, unless
by Mr. Sheridan. Less can be said for the tragedies of Southerne, and for "The Mourning Bride."
Although these pieces contain many passages of great interest, and of beautiful poetry, I know
not but they contributed more than even the subsequent homilies of Rowe, to chase natural and
powerful expression of passion from the English stage, and to sink it into that maudlin, and
affected, and pedantic style of tragedy, which haunted the stage till Shakespeare awakened
at the call of Garrick. "The Fatal Marriage" of Southerne is an exception to this false taste;
for no one who has seen Mrs. Siddons in Isabella, can deny Southerne the power of moving the
passions, till amusement becomes bitter and almost insupportable distress. But these observations
are here out of place. Addison paid an early tribute to Dryden's fame, by the verses addressed
to him on his translations. Among Dryden's less distinguished intimates, we observe Sir Henry
Shere, Dennis the critic, Moyle, Motteux, Walsh, who lived to distinguish the youthful merit
of Pope, and other men of the second rank in literature. These, as his works testify, he frequently
assisted with prefaces, occasional verses, or similar contributions. But among our author's
followers and admirers, we must not reckon Swift, although related to him,[3] and now coming
into notice. It is said, that Swift had subjected to his cousin's perusal, some of those performances,
entitled Odes, which appear in the seventh volume of the last edition of his works. Even the
eye of Dryden was unable to discover the wit and the satirist in the clouds of incomprehensible
pindaric obscurity in which he was enveloped; and the aged bard pronounced the hasty, and never
to be pardoned sentence,-- "Cousin Swift, you will never be a poet."[4] A doom which he, on
whom it was passed, attempted to repay, by repeated, although impotent, attacks upon the fame
of Dryden, everywhere scattered through his works. With the exception of Swift, no author of
eminence, whose labours are still in request, has ventured to assail the poetical fame of Dryden.

Shortly after the Revolution, Dryden had translated several satires of Juvenal; and calling
in the aid of his two sons, of Congreve, Creech, Tate, and others, he was enabled, in 1692,
to give a complete version both of that satirist, and of Persius. In this undertaking he himself
bore a large share, translating the whole of Persius, with the first, third, sixth, tenth,
and sixteenth satires of Juvenal. To this version is prefixed the noted Essay on Satire, inscribed
to the Earl of Dorset and Middlesex. In that treatise, our author exhibits a good deal of that
sort of learning which was in fashion among the French critics; and, I suspect, was contented
rather to borrow something from them, than put himself to the trouble of compiling more valuable
materials. Such is the disquisition concerning the origin of the word Satire, which is chiefly
extracted from Casaubon, Dacier, and Rigault. But the poet's own incidental remarks upon the
comparative merits of Horace, Juvenal, and Persius, his declamation against the abuse of satire,
his incidental notices respecting epic poetry, translation, and English literature in general,
render this introduction highly valuable.

Without noticing the short prefaces to Walsh's "Essay upon Woman," a meagre and stiff composition,
and to Sir Henry Shere's wretched translation of Polybius, published in 1691 and 1692, we hasten
to the elegy on the Countess of Abingdon, entitled Eleonora. This lady died suddenly, 31st
May 1691, in a ball-room in her own house, just then prepared for an entertainment. The disconsolate
husband, who seems to have been a patron of the Muses,[5] not satisfied with the volunteer
effusions of some minor poets, employed a mutual friend to engage Dryden to compose a more
beautiful tribute to his consort's memory. The poet, it would seem, neither knew the lord nor
the lady, but was doubtless propitiated upon the mournful occasion;[6] nor was the application
and fee judged more extraordinary than that probably offered, on the same occasion, to the
divine who was to preach the Countess's funeral sermon. The leading and most characteristic
features of the lady's character were doubtless pointed out to our author as subjects for illustration;
yet so difficult is it, even for the best poet, to feign a sorrow which he feels not, or to
describe with appropriate and animated colouring a person whom he has never seen, that Dryden's
poem resembles rather an abstract panegyric on an imaginary being, than an elegy on a real
character. The elegy was published early in 1692.

In 1693, Tonson's Third Miscellany made its appearance, with a dedication to Lord Ratcliffe,
eldest son of the Earl of Derwentwater, who was himself a pretender to poetry, though our author
thought so slightly of his attempts in that way, that he does not even deign to make them enter
into his panegyric, but contents himself with saying, "what you will be hereafter, may be more
than guessed by what you are at present." It is probable that the rhyming peer was dissatisfied
with Dryden's unusual economy of adulation; at least he disappointed some expectations which
the poet and bookseller seem to have entertained of his liberality.[7] This dedication indicates,
that a quarrel was commenced between our author and the critic Rymer. It appears from a passage
in a letter to Tonson, that Rymer had spoken lightly of him in his last critique (probably
in the short view of tragedy), and that the poet took this opportunity, as he himself expresses
it, to snarl again. He therefore acquaints us roundly, that the corruption of a poet was the
generation of a critic; exults a little over the memory of Rymer's "Edgar," a tragedy just
reeking from damnation; and hints at the difference which the public is likely to experience
between the present royal historiographer and him whose room he occupied. In his epistle to
Congreve, alluding to the same circumstance of Rymer's succeeding to the office of historiographer,
as Tate did to the laurel, on the death of Thomas Shadwell, in 1692, Dryden has these humorous
lines:

  "O that your brows my laurel had sustained!
  Well had I been deposed, if you had reigned:
  The father had descended for the son;
  For only you are lineal to the throne.
  Thus, when the state one Edward did depose,
  A greater Edward in his room arose:
  But now not I, but poetry, is cursed;
  For Tom the second reigns like Tom the first.
  But let them not mistake my patron's part,
  Nor call his charity their own desert."

From the letter to Tonson above referred to, it would seem that the dedication of the Third
Miscellany gave offence to Queen Mary, being understood to reflect upon her government, and
that she had commanded Rymer to return to the charge, by a criticism on Dryden's plays. But
the breach does not appear to have become wider; and Dryden has elsewhere mentioned Rymer with
civility.

The Third Miscellany contained, of Dryden's poetry, a few songs, the first book, with part
of the ninth and sixteenth books of the Metamorphoses, and the parting of Hector and Andromache,
from the Iliad. It was also to have had the poem of Hero and Leander, from the Greek; but none
such appeared, nor is it clear whether Dryden ever executed the version, or only had it in
contemplation. The contribution, although ample, was not satisfactory to old Jacob Tonson,
who wrote on the subject a most mercantile expostulatory letter[8] to Dryden, which is fortunately
the minutiae of a literary bargain in the 17th century. Tonson, with reference to Dryden having
offered a strange bookseller six hundred lines for twenty guineas, enters into a question in
the rule of three, by which he discovers, and proves, that for fifty guineas he has only 1446
lines, which he seems to take more unkindly, as he had not counted the lines until he had paid
the money; from all which Jacob infers, that Dryden ought, out of generosity, at least to throw
him in something to the bargain, especially as he had used him more kindly in Juvenal, which,
saith the said Jacob, is not reckoned so easy to translate as Ovid. What weight was given to
this supplication does not appear; probably very little, for the translations were not extended,
and as to getting back any part of the copy-money, it is not probable Tonson's most sanguine
expectation ever reached that point. Perhaps the songs were thrown in as a make-weight. There
was a Fourth Miscellany published in 1694; but to this Dryden only gave a version of the third
Georgic, and his Epistle to Sir Godfrey Kneller, the requital of a copy of the portrait of
Shakespeare.[9]

In 1963, Dryden addressed the beautiful lines to Congreve, on the cold reception of his "Double
Dealer." He was himself under a similar cloud, from the failure of "Love Triumphant," and therefore
in a fit mood to administer consolation to his friend. The epistle contains, among other striking
passages, the affecting charge of the care of his posthumous fame, which Congreve did not forget
when Dryden was no more.

But, independently of occasional exertions, our author, now retired from the stage, had bent
his thoughts upon one great literary task, the translation of Virgil. This weighty and important
undertaking was probably suggested by the experience of Tonson, the success of whose "Miscellanies"
had taught him the value placed by the public on Dryden's translations from the classics. From
hints thrown out by contemporary scheme was meditated, even before 1964; but in that year the
poet, in a letter to Dennis, speaks of it as under his immediate contemplation. The names of
Virgil and Dryden were talismans powerful to arrest the eyes of all that were literary in England,
upon the progress of the work. Mr. Malone has recorded the following particulars concerning
it, with pious enthusiasm.

"Dr. Johnson has justly remarked, that the nation seemed to consider its honour interested
in the event. Mr. Gilbert Dolben gave him the various editions of his author: Dr. Knightly
Chetwood furnished him with the life of Virgil, and the Preface to the Pastorals; and Addison
supplied the arguments of the several books, and an Essay on the Georgics. The first lines
of this great poet which he translated, he wrote with a diamond on a pane of glass in one of
the windows of Chesterton House, in Huntingdonshire, the residence of his kinsman and namesake,
John Driden, Esq.[10] The version of the first Georgic, and a great part of the last Aeneid,
was made at Denham Court, in Buckinghamshire, the seat of Sir William Bowyer, Baronet; and
the seventh Æneid was translated at Burleigh, the noble mansion of the Earl of Exeter. These
circumstances, which must be acknowledged to be of no great importance, I yet have thought
it proper to record, because they will for ever endear those places to the votaries of the
Muses, and add to them a kind of celebrity, which neither the beauties of nature, nor the exertions
of art, can bestow."

Neither was the liberality of the nation entirely disproportioned to the general importance
attached to the translation of Virgil, by so eminent a poet. The researches of Mr. Malone have
ascertained, in some degree, the terms. There were two classes of subscribers, the first set
of whom paid five guineas apiece to adorn the work with engravings; beneath each of which,
in due and grateful remembrance, was blazoned the arms of a subscriber: this class amounted
to one hundred and one persons, a list of whom appears in this edition, in vol. xiii., and
presents an assemblage of noble names, few of whom are distinguished more to their credit than
by the place they there occupy. The second subscribers were two hundred and fifty in number,
at two guineas each. But from these sums was to be deducted the expense of the engravings,
though these were only the plates used for Ogilby's Virgil, a little retouched. Besides the
subscriptions, it would seem, that Dryden received from Tonson fifty pounds for each Book of
the "Georgics" and "Æneid," and probably the same for the Pastorals collectively.[11] On the
other hand, it is probable that Jacob charged a price for the copies delivered to the subscribers,
which, with the expense of the plates, reduced Dryden's profit to about twelve or thirteen
hundred pounds;--a trifling sum when compared to what Pope received for the "Iliad," which
was certainly between £5,000 and £6,000; yet great in proportion to what the age of Dryden
had ever afforded, as an encouragement to literature. It must indeed be confessed, that the
Revolution had given a new impulse and superior importance to literary pursuits. The semi-barbarous
age, which succeeded the great civil war, had been civilised by slow degrees. It is true, the
king and courtiers, among their disorderly and dissolute pleasures, enumerated songs and plays,
and, in the course of their political intrigues, held satires in request; but they had neither
money nor time to spare for the encouragement or study of any of the higher and more elaborate
departments of poetry. Meanwhile, the bulk of the nation neglected verse, as what they could
not understand, or, with puritanical bigotry, detested as sinful the use, as well as the abuse,
of poetical talent. But the lapse of thirty years made a material change in the manners of
the English people. Instances began to occur of individuals, who, rising at first into notice
for their proficience in the fine arts, were finally promoted for the active and penetrating
talents, which necessarily accompany a turn towards them. An outward reformation of manners,
at least the general abjuration of grosser profligacy, was also favourable to poetry,--

  Still first to fly where
  sensual joys invade.

This was wrought, partly by the religious manners of Mary; partly by the cold and unsocial
temper of William, who shunned excess, not perhaps because it was criminal, but because it
was derogatory; partly by the political fashion of the day, which was to disown the profligacy
that marked the partisans of the Stuarts; but, most of all, by the general increase of good
taste, and the improvement of education. All these contributed to the encouragement of Dryden's
great undertaking, which promised to rescue Virgil from the degraded version of Ogilby, and
present him in a becoming form to a public, now prepared to receive him with merited admiration.

While our author was labouring in this great work, and the public were waiting the issue with
impatience and attention, a feud, of which it is now impossible to trace the cause, arose between
the bard and his publisher. Their union before seems to have been of a nature more friendly
than interest alone could have begotten; for Dryden, in one letter, talks with gratitude of
Tonson's affording him his company down to Northamptonshire; and this friendly intimacy Jacob
neglected not to cultivate, by those occasional compliments of fruit and wine, which are often
acknowledged in the course of their correspondence. But a quarrel broke out between them, when
the translation of Virgil had advanced so far as the completion of the seventh Aeneid; at which
period Dryden charges Tonson bitterly, with an intention, from the very beginning, to deprive
him of all profit by the second subscriptions; alluding, I presume, to the price which the
bookseller charged him upon the volumes delivered to the subscribers. The bibliopolist seems
to have bent before the storm, and pacified the incensed bard, by verbal submission, though
probably without relaxing his exactions and drawbacks in any material degree. Another cause
of this dissension appears to have been the Notes upon "Virgil," for which Tonson would allow
no additional emolument to the author, although Dryden says, "that to make them good, would
cost six months' labour at least," and elsewhere tells Tonson ironically, that, since not to
be paid, they shall be short, "for the saving of the paper." I cannot think that we have sustained
any great loss by Tonson's penurious economy on this occasion. In his prefaces and dedications,
Dryden let his own ideas freely forth to the public; but in his Notes upon the Classics, witness
those on "Juvenal" and "Persius," he neither indulged in critical dissertations on particular
beauties and defects, nor in general remarks upon the kind of poetry before him; but contented
himself with rendering into English the antiquarian dissertations of Dacier and other foreign
commentators, with now and then an explanatory paraphrase of an obscure passage. The parodies
of Martin Scriblerus had not yet consigned to ridicule the verbal criticism, and solemn trifling,
with which the ancient schoolmen pretended to illustrate the classics. But beside the dispute
about the notes in particular, and the various advantages which Dryden suspected Tonson of
attempting in the course of the transaction, he seems to have been particularly affronted at
a presumptuous plan of that publisher (a keen Whig, and secretary of the Kit-cat club) to drive
him into inscribing the translation of Virgil to King William. With this view, Tonson had an
especial care to make the engraver aggravate the nose of Aeneas in the plates into a sufficient
resemblance of the hooked promontory of the Deliverer's countenance;[12] and, foreseeing Dryden's
repugnance to this favourite plan, he had recourse, it would seem, to more unjustifiable means
to further it; for the poet expresses himself as convinced that, through Tonson's means, his
correspondence with his sons, then at Rome, was intercepted.[13] I suppose Jacob, having fairly
laid siege to his author's conscience, had no scruple to intercept all foreign supplies, which
might have confirmed him in his pertinacity. But Dryden, although thus closely beleaguered,
held fast his integrity; and no prospect of personal advantage, or importunity on the part
of Tonson, could induce him to take a step inconsistent with his religious and political sentiments.

"Tell the dog," said the poet to the messenger, "that he who wrote these can write more." But
Tonson, perfectly satisfied with this single triplet, hastened to comply with the author's
request, without requiring any further specimen of his poetical powers. It would seem, however,
that when Dryden neglected his stipulated labour, Tonson possessed powers of animadversion,
which, though exercised in plain prose, were not a little dreaded by the poet. There might,
on such occasions, be room for acknowledging faults on both sides; for, if we admit that the
bookseller was penurious and churlish, we cannot deny that Dryden seems often to have been
abundantly captious, and irascible. Indeed, as the poet placed, and justly, more than a mercantile
value upon what he sold, the trader, on his part, was necessarily cautious not to afford a
price which his returns could not pay; so that while, in one point of view, the author sold
at an inadequate price, the purchaser, in another, really got no more than value for his money.
That literature is ill recompensed, is usually rather the fault of the public than the bookseller,
whose trade can only exist by buying that which can be sold to advantage. The trader, who purchased
the "Paradise Lost" for ten pounds, had probably no very good bargain.[15]

However fretted by these teasing and almost humiliating discussions, Dryden continued steadily
advancing in his great labour; and about three years after it had been undertaken, the translation
of Virgil, "the most noble and spirited," said Pope, "which I know in any language," was given
to the public in July 1697. So eager was the general expectation, that the first edition was
exhausted in a few months, and a second published early in the next year. "It satisfied," says
Johnson, "his friends, and, for the most part, silenced his enemies." But, although this was
generally the case, there wanted not some to exercise the invidious task of criticism, or rather
of malevolent detraction. Among those, the highest name is that of Swift; the most distinguished
for venomous and persevering malignity, that of Milbourne.

In his Epistle to Prince Posterity, prefixed to the "Tale of a Tub," Swift, in the character
of the dedicator, declares, "upon the word of a sincere man, that there is now actually in
being a certain poet called John Dryden, whose translation of Virgil was lately printed in
a large folio, well-bound, and, if diligent search were made, for aught I know, is yet to be
seen." In his "Battle of the Books," he tells us, "that Dryden, who encountered Virgil, soothed
the good ancient by the endearing title of 'father,' and, by a large deduction of genealogies,
made it appear, that they were nearly related, and humbly proposed an exchange of armour; as
a mark of hospitality, Virgil consented, though his was of gold, and cost an hundred beeves,
the other's but of rusty iron. However, this glittering armour became the modern still worse
than his own. Then they agreed to exchange horses; but, when it came to the trial, Dryden was
afraid, and utterly unable to mount." A yet more bitter reproach is levelled by the wit against
the poet, for his triple dedication of the Pastorals, Georgics, and Aeneid, to three several
patrons, Clifford, Chesterfield, and Mulgrave.[16] But, though the recollection of the contemned
Odes, like the spretae injuria formae of Juno, still continued to prompt these overflowings
of Swift's satire, he had too much taste and perception of poetry to attempt, gravely, to undermine,
by a formal criticism, the merits of Dryden's Virgil.

This was reserved for Luke Milbourne, a clergyman, who, by that assurance, has consigned his
name to no very honourable immortality. This person appears to have had a living at Great Yarmouth,[17]
which, Dryden hints, he forfeited by writing libels on his parishioners; and from another testimony,
he seems to have been a person of no very strict morals.[18] Milbourne was once an admirer
of our poet, as appears from his letter concerning "Amphitryon," vol. viii. But either poetical
rivalry, for he had also thought of translating Virgil himself,[19] or political animosity,
for he seems to have held revolution principles, or deep resentment for Dryden's sarcasms against
the clergy, or, most probably, all these united, impelled Milbourne to publish a most furious
criticism, entitled, "Notes on Dryden's Virgil, in a Letter to a Friend." "And here," said
he, "in the first place, I must needs own Jacob Tonson's ingenuity to be greater than the translator's,
who, in the inscription of his fine gay (title) in the front of the book, calls it very honestly
Dryden's Virgil, to let the reader know, that this is not that Virgil so much admired in the
Augustaean age, an author whom Mr. Dryden once thought untranslatable, but a Virgil of another
stamp, of a coarser allay; a silly, impertinent, nonsensical writer, of a various and uncertain
style, a mere Alexander Ross, or somebody inferior to him; who could never have been known
again in the translation, if the name of Virgil had not been bestowed upon him in large characters
in the frontispiece, and in the running title. Indeed, there is scarce the magni nominis umbra
to be met with in this translation, which being fairly intimated by Jacob, he needs add no
more, but si populus vult decipi, decipiatur."

With an assurance which induced Pope to call him the fairest of critics, not content with criticising
the production of Dryden, Milbourne was so ill advised as to produce, and place in opposition
to it, a rickety translation of his own, probably the fragments of that which had been suppressed
by Dryden's version. A short specimen, both of his criticism and poetry, will convince the
reader, that the powers of the former were, as has been often the case, neutralised by the
insipidity of the latter; for who can rely on the judgment of a critic so ill qualified to
illustrate his own precepts? I take the remarks on the tenth Eclogue, as a specimen, at hazard.
"This eclogue is translated in a strain too luscious and effeminate for Virgil, who might bemoan
his friend, but does it in a noble and a manly style, which Mr. Ogilby answers better than
Mr. D., whose paraphrase looks like one of Mrs. Behn's, when somebody had turned the original
into English prose before.

"Where Virgil says,

  Lauri et myricae flevêre,

the figure's beautiful; where Mr. D. says,

         the laurel stands in tears,
  And hung with humid pearls, the lowly shrub appears,

the figure is lost, and a foolish and impertinent representation comes in its place; an ordinary
dewy morning might fill the laurels and shrubs with Mr. D.'s tears, though Gallus had not been
concerned in it.

  And yet the queen of beauty blest his bed--

"Here Mr. D. comes with his ugly patch upon a beautiful face: what had the queen of beauty
to do here? Lycoris did not despise her lover for his meanness, but because she had a mind
to be a Catholic whore. Gallus was of quality, but her spark a poor inferior fellow. And yet
the queen of beauty, etc., would have followed there very well, but not where wanton Mr. D.
has fixt her."

  Flushed were his cheeks, and glowing were his eyes.

"This character is fitter for one that is drunk than one in an amazement, and is a thought
unbecoming Virgil."

  And for thy rival, tempts the raging sea,
  The forms of horrid war, and heaven's inclemency.

"Lycoris, doubtless, was a jilting baggage, but why should Mr. D. belie her? Virgil talks nothing
of her going to sea, and perhaps she had a mind to be only a camp laundress, which office she
might be advanced to without going to sea: 'the forms of horrid war,' for horrida castra, is
incomparable."

      his brows, a country crown
  Of fennel, and of nodding lilies drown,

"is a very odd figure: Sylvanus had swinging brows to drown such a crown as that, i.e. to make
it invisible, to swallow it up; if it be a country crown, drown his brows, it is false English."

  The meads are sooner drunk with morning dews.

"Rivi signifies no such thing; but then, that bees should be drunk with flowery shrubs, or
goats be drunk with brouze, for drunk's the verb, is a very quaint thought."

After much more to the same purpose, Milbourne thus introduces his own version of the first
Eclogue, with a confidence worthy of a better cause:--"That Mr. Dryden might be satisfied that
I'd offer no foul play, nor find faults in him, without giving him an opportunity of retaliation,
I have subjoined another metaphrase or translation of the first and fourth pastoral, which
I desire may be read with his by the original.

TITYRUS.

ECLOGUE I.

  Mel. Beneath a spreading beech you, Tityrus, lie,
  And country songs to humble reeds apply;
  We our sweet fields, our native country fly,
  We leave our country; you in shades may lie,
  And Amaryllis fair and blythe proclaim,
  And make the woods repeat her buxom name.

  Tit. O Melibaeus! 'twas a bounteous God,
  These peaceful play-days on our muse bestowed;
  At least, he'st alway be a God to me;
  My lambs shall oft his grateful offerings be.
  Thou seest, he lets my herds securely stray,
  And me at pleasure on my pipe to play.

  Mel. Your peace I don't with looks of envy view,
  But I admire your happy state, and you.
  In all our farms severe distraction reigns,
  No ancient owner there in peace remains.
  Sick, I, with much ado, my goats can drive,
  This Tityrus, I scarce can lead alive;
  On the bare stones, among yon hazels past,
  Just now, alas! her hopeful twins she cast.
  Yet had not all on's dull and senseless been,
  We'd long agon this coming stroke foreseen.
  Oft did the blasted oaks our fate unfold,
  And boding choughs from hollow trees foretold.
  But say, good Tityrus! tell me who's the God,
  Who peace, so lost to us, on you bestow'd?"

Some critics there were, though but few, who joined Milbourne in his abortive attempt to degrade
our poet's translation. Oldmixon, celebrated for his share in the games of the Dunciad,[20]
and Samuel Parker,[21] a yet more obscure name, have informed us of this, by volunteering in
Dryden's defence. But Dryden needed not their assistance. Let him be satisfied, that he shall
not he able to force himself upon me for an adversary. I contemn him too much to enter into
competition with him. His own translations of Virgil have answered his criticisms on mine.
If (as they say he has declared in print) he prefers the version of Ogilby to mine, the world
has made him the same compliment; for it is agreed on all hands, that he writes even below
Ogilby. That, you will say, is not easily to be done; but what cannot Milbourne bring about?
I am satisfied, however, that while he and I live together, I shall not be thought the worst
poet of the age. It looks as if I had desired him underhand to write so ill against me; but
upon my honest word, I have not bribed him to do me this service, and am wholly guiltless of
his pamphlet. It is true, I should be glad if I could persuade him to continue his good offices,
and write such another critique on anything of mine; for I find, by experience, he has a great
stroke with the reader, when he condemns any of my poems, to make the world have a better opinion
of them. He has taken some pains with my poetry; but nobody will be persuaded to take the same
with his. If I had taken to the Church (as he affirms, but which was never in my thoughts),
I should have had more sense, if not more grace, than to have turned myself out of my benefice
by writing libels on my parishioners. But his account of my manners, and my principles, are
of a piece with his cavils and his poetry; and so I have done with him for ever."[22]

While Dryden was engaged with his great translation, he found two months' leisure to execute
a prose version of Fresnoy's "Art of Painting," to which he added an ingenious Preface, the
work of twelve mornings, containing a parallel between that art and poetry; of which Mason
has said, that though too superficial to stand the test of strict criticism, yet it will always
give pleasure to readers of taste, even when it fails to convince their judgment. This version
appeared in 1695. Mr. Malone conjectures that our author was engaged in this task by his friends
Closterman, and Sir Godfrey Kneller, artists, who had been active in procuring subscriptions
for his Virgil. He also wrote a "Life of Lucian," for a translation of his works, by Mr. Walter
Moyle, Sir Henry Shere, and other gentlemen of pretension to learning. This version, although
it did not appear till after his death, and although he executed no part of the translation,
still retains the title of "Dryden's Lucian."

There was one event of political importance which occurred in December 1695, and which the
public seem to have expected should have employed the pen of Dryden;--this was the death of
Mary, wife of William the Third. It is difficult to conceive in what manner the poet laureate
of the unfortunate James could have treated the memory of his daughter. Satire was dangerous,
and had indeed been renounced by the poet; and panegyric was contrary to the principles for
which he was suffering. Yet, among the swarm of rhymers who thrust themselves upon the nation
on that mournful occasion, there are few who do not call, with friendly or unfriendly voice,
upon our poet to break silence.[23] But the voice of praise and censure was heard in vain,
and Dryden's only interference was, in character of the first judge of his time, to award the
prize to the Duke of Devonshire, as author of the best poem composed on occasion of the Queen's
death.[24]

Virgil was hardly finished, when our author distinguished himself by the immortal Ode to Saint
Cecilia, commonly called "Alexander's Feast." There is some difference of evidence concerning
the time occupied in this splendid task. He had been solicited to undertake it by the stewards
of the Musical Meeting, which had for several years met to celebrate the feast of St. Cecilia,
their patroness, and whom he had formerly gratified by a similar performance. In September
1697, Dryden writes to his son:--"In the meantime, I am writing a song for St. Cecilia's feast;
who, you know, is the patroness of music. This is troublesome, and no way beneficial; but I
could not deny the stewards, who came in a body to my house to desire that kindness, one of
them being Mr. Bridgeman, whose parents are your mother's friends." This account seems to imply,
that the Ode was a work of some time; which is countenanced by Dr. Birch's expression, that
Dryden himself "observes, in an original letter of his, that he was employed for almost a fortnight
in composing and correcting it."[25] On the other hand, the following anecdote is told upon
very respectable authority. It is possible that Dryden may have completed, at one sitting,
the whole Ode, and yet have employed a fortnight, or much more, in correction. There is strong
internal evidence to show that the poem was, speaking with reference to its general structure,
wrought off at once. A halt or pause, even of a day, would perhaps have injured that continuous
flow of poetical language and description which argues the whole scene to have arisen at once
upon the author's imagination. It seems possible, more especially in lyrical poetry, to discover
where the author has paused for any length of time; for the union of the parts is rarely so
perfect as not to show a different strain of thought and feeling. There may be something fanciful,
however, in this reasoning, which I therefore abandon to the reader's mercy; only begging him
to observe, that we have no mode of estimating the exertions of a quality so capricious as
a poetic imagination; so that it is very possible, that the Ode to St. Cecilia may have been
the work of twenty-four hours, whilst correction and emendations, perhaps of no very great
consequence, occupied the author as many days. Derrick, in his "Life of Dryden," tells us,
upon the authority of Walter Moyle, that the society paid Dryden £40 for this sublime Ode,
which, from the passage in his letter above quoted, seems to have been more than the bard expected
at commencing his labour. The music for this celebrated poem was originally composed by Jeremiah
Clarke,[27] one of the stewards of the festival, whose productions where more remarkable for
deep pathos and delicacy than for fire and energy. It is probable that, with such a turn of
mind and taste, he may have failed in setting the sublime, lofty, and daring flights of the
Ode to St. Cecilia. Indeed his composition was not judged worthy of publication. The Ode, after
some impertinent alterations, made by Hughes, at the request of Sir Richard Steele, was set
to music by Clayton, who, with Steele, managed a public concert in 1711; but neither was this
a successful essay to connect the poem with the art it celebrated. At length, in 1736, "Alexander's
Feast" was set by Handel, and performed in the Theatre-Royal, Covent Garden, with the full
success which the combined talents of the poet and the musician seemed to insure.[28] Indeed,
although the music was at first less successful, the poetry received, even in the author's
time, all the applause which its unrivalled excellence demanded. "I am glad to hear from all
hands," says Dryden, in a letter to Tonson, "that my Ode is esteemed the best of all my poetry,
by all the town. I thought so myself when I writ it; but, being old, I mistrusted my own judgment."
This singularly strong expression cannot be placed to the score of vanity. It was an inward
consciousness of merit, which burst forth, probably almost involuntarily, and I fear must be
admitted as prophetic.

The preparation of a new edition of the Virgil, which appeared in 1698, occupied nine days
only, after which Dryden began seriously to consider to what he should next address his pen.
The state of his circumstances rendered constant literary labour indispensable to the support
of his family, although the exertion, and particularly the confinement, occasioned by his studies,
considerably impaired his health. His son Charles had met with an accident at Rome, which was
attended with a train of consequences perilous to his health; and Dryden, anxious to recall
him to Britain, was obliged to make extraordinary exertions to provide against this additional
expense. "If it please God," he writes to Tonson, "that I must die of over-study, I cannot
spend my life better than in preserving his." It is affecting to read such a passage in the
life of such a man; yet the necessities of the poet, like the afflictions of the virtuous,
smooth the road to immortality. While Milton and Dryden were favoured by the rulers of the
day, they were involved in the religious and political controversies which raged around them;
it is to hours of seclusion, neglect, and even penury, that we owe the Paradise Lost, the Virgil,
and the Fables.

Among other projects, Dryden seems to have had thoughts of altering and revising a tragedy
called the "Conquest of China by the Tartars," written by his ancient friend and brother-in-law,
Sir Robert Howard. The unkindness which had arisen between them upon the subject of blank verse
and rhyme, seems to have long since passed away; and we observe, with pleasure, that Dryden,
in the course of the pecuniary transactions about Virgil, reckons upon the assistance of Sir
Robert Howard, and consults his taste also in the revisal of the version.[29] But Dryden never
altered the "Conquest of China," being first interrupted by the necessity of revising Virgil,
and afterwards, perhaps, by a sort of quarrel which took place between him and the players,
of whom he speaks most resentfully in his "Epistle to Granville," upon his tragedy of "Heroic
Love," acted in the beginning of 1698.[30]

The success of Virgil encouraged Dryden about this time to turn his eyes upon Homer; and the
general voice of the literary world called upon him to do the venerable Grecian the same service
which the Roman had received from him. It was even believed that he had fixed upon the mode
of translation, and that he was, as he elsewhere expresses it, to "fight unarmed, without his
rhyme."[31] A dubious anecdote bears, that he even regretted he had not rendered Virgil into
blank verse, and shows at the same time, if genuine, how far he must now have disapproved of
his own attempt to turn into rhyme the Paradise Lost. The story is told by the elder Richardson,
in his remarks on the tardy progress of Milton's great work in the public opinion.[32] When
Dryden did translate the First Book of Homer, which he published with the Fables, he rendered
it into rhyme; nor have we sufficient ground to believe that he ever seriously intended, in
so large a work, to renounce the advantages which he possessed, by his unequalled command of
versification. That in other respects the task was consonant to his temper, as well as talents,
he has himself informed us. "My thoughts," he says, in a letter to Halifax, in 1699, "are at
present fixed on Homer; and by my translation of the first Iliad, I find him a poet more according
to my genius than Virgil, and consequently hope I may do him more justice, in his fiery way
of writing; which, as it is liable to more faults, so it is capable of more beauties than the
exactness and sobriety of Virgil. Since it is for my country's honour, as well as for my own,
that I am willing to undertake this task, I despair not of being encouraged in it by your favour."
But this task Dryden was not destined to accomplish, although he had it so much at heart as
to speak of resuming it only three months before his death.[33]

In the meanwhile, our author had engaged himself in making those imitations of Boccacio and
Chaucer, which have been since called the "Fables;" and in spring 1699, he was in such forwardness,
as to put into Tonson's hands "seven thousand five hundred verses, more or less," as the contract
bears, being a partial delivery to account of ten thousand verses, which by that deed he agreed
to furnish, for the sum of two hundred and fifty guineas, to be made up three hundred pounds
upon publication of the second edition. This second payment Dryden lived not to receive. With
the contents of this miscellaneous volume we are to suppose him engaged, from the revisal of
the Virgil, in 1697, to the publication of the Fables, in March 1699-1700. This was the last
period of his labours, and of his life; and, like all the others, it did not pass undisturbed
by acrimonious criticism, and controversy. The dispute with Milbourne we noticed, before dismissing
the subject of Virgil; but there were two other persons who, in their zeal for morality and
religion, chose to disturb the last years of the life of Dryden.

The indelicacy of the stage, being, in its earliest period, merely the coarse gross raillery
of a barbarous age, was probably of no greater injury to the morals of the audience, than it
is to those of the lower ranks of society, with whom similar language is everywhere admitted
as wit and humour. During the reigns of James I. and Charles I. this licence was gradually
disappearing. In the domination of the fanatics, which succeeded, matters were so much changed,
that, far from permitting the use of indelicate or profane allusions, they wrapped up not only
their most common temporal affairs, but even their very crimes and vices, in the language of
their spiritual concerns. Luxury was using the creature; avarice was seeking experiences; insurrection
was putting the hand to the plough; actual rebellion, fighting the good fight; and regicide,
doing the great work of the Lord. This vocabulary became grievously unfashionable at the Reformation,
and was at once swept away by the torrent of irreligion, blasphemy, and indecency, which were
at that period deemed necessary to secure conversation against the imputation of disloyalty
and fanaticism. The court of Cromwell, if lampoons can be believed, was not much less vicious
than that of Charles II., but it was less scandalous; and, as Dryden himself expresses it,

  "The sin was of our native growth, 'tis true;
  The scandal of the sin was wholly new.

This torrent of licentiousness had begun in some degree to abate, even upon the accession of
James II., whose manners did not encourage the same general licence as those of Charles. But
after the Revolution, when an affectation of profligacy was no longer deemed a necessary attribute
of loyalty, and when it began to be thought possible that a man might have some respect for
religion without being a republican, or even a fanatic, the licence of the stage was generally
esteemed a nuisance. It then happened, as is not uncommon, that those, most bustling and active
to correct public abuses, were men whose intentions may, without doing them injury, be estimated
more highly than their talents. Thus, Sir Richard Blackmore, a grave physician, residing and
practising on the sober side of Temple-Bar, was the first who professed to reform the spreading
pest of poetical licentiousness, and to correct such men as Dryden, Congreve, and Wycherly.
This worthy person, compassionating the state to which poetry was reduced by his contemporaries,
who used their wit "in opposition to religion, and to the destruction of virtue and good manners
in the world," resolved to rescue the Muses from this unworthy thraldom, "to restore them to
their sweet and chaste mansions, and to engage them in an employment suited to their dignity."
With this laudable view he wrote "Prince Arthur, an Epic Poem," published in 1695. The preface
contained a furious, though just, diatribe, against the licence of modern comedy, with some
personal reflections aimed at Dry den directly.[34] This the poet felt more unkindly, as Sir
Richard had, without acknowledgment, availed himself of the hints he had thrown out in the
"Essay upon Satire," for the management of an epic poem on the subject of King Arthur. He bore,
however, the attack, without resenting it, until he was again assailed by Sir Richard in his
"Satire upon Wit," written expressly to correct the dissolute and immoral performances of the
writers of his time. With a ponderous attempt at humour, the good knight proposes, that a bank
for wit should be established, and that all which had hitherto passed as current, should be
called in, purified in the mint, re-coined, and issued forth anew, freed from alloy.

This satire was published in 1700, as the title-page bears; but Mr. Luttrell marks his copy
23rd November 1699.[35] It contains more than one attack upon our author. Thus, we are told
(wit being previously described as a malady),

  "Vanine, that looked on all the danger past,
  Because he 'scaped so long, is seized at last;
  By p----, by hunger, and by Dryden bit,
  He grins and snarls, and, in his dogged fit,
  Froths at the mouth, a certain sign of wit."

Elsewhere the poet complains, that the universities,

      "debauched by Dryden and his crew,
  Turn bawds to vice, and wicked aims pursue."

Again, p. 14--

  "Dryden condemn, who taught men how to make,
  Of dunces wits, an angel of a rake."

But the main offence lies in the following passage:--

  "Set forth your edict; let it be enjoined,
  That all defective species be recoined;
  St. E--m--t and R--r both are fit
  To oversee the coining of our wit.
  Let these be made the masters of essay,
  They'll every piece of metal touch and weigh,
  And tell which is too light, which has too much allay.
  'Tis true, that when the coarse and worthless dross
  Is purged away, there will be mighty loss.
  When once his boasted heaps are melted down,
  A chest-full scarce will yield one sterling crown.
  Those who will D--n--s melt, and think to find
  A goodly mass of bullion left behind,
  Do, as the Hibernian wit, who, as 'tis told,
  Burnt his gilt feather, to collect the gold.
       *       *       *       *       *
  But what remains will be so pure, 'twill bear
  The examination of the most severe;
  'Twill S--r's scales, and Talbot's test abide,
  And with their mark please all the world beside."

These repeated attacks at length called down the vengeance of Dryden. who thus retorted upon
him in the preface to the Fables:--

"As for the City Bard, or Knight Physician, I hear his quarrel to me is, that I was the author
of 'Absalom and Achitophel,' which he   thinks, is a little hard on his fanatic patrons in London.

"But I will deal the more civilly with his two poems, because nothing ill is to be spoken of
the dead; and, therefore, peace be to the manes of his 'Arthurs.' I will only say, that it
was not for this noble knight that I drew the plan of an epic poem on King Arthur, in my preface
to the translation of Juvenal. The guardian angels of kingdoms were machines too ponderous
for him to manage; and therefore he rejected them, as Dares did the whirl bats of Eryx, when
they were thrown before him by Entellus: yet from that preface, he plainly took his hint; for
he began immediately upon the story, though he had the baseness not to acknowledge his benefactor,
but, instead of it, to traduce me in a libel."

Blackmore, who had perhaps thought the praise contained in his two last couplets ought to have
allayed Dryden's resentment, finding that they failed in producing this effect, very unhandsomely
omitted them in his next edition, and received, as will presently be noticed, another flagellation,
in the last verses Dryden ever wrote.

But a more formidable champion than Blackmore had arisen, to scourge the profligacy of the
theatre. This was no other than the celebrated Jeremy Collier, a nonjuring clergyman, who published,
in 1698, "A Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness of the Stage." His qualities as a
reformer are described by Dr. Johnson in language never to be amended. "He was formed for a
controvertist; with sufficient learning; with diction vehement and pointed, though often vulgar
and incorrect; with unconquerable pertinacity; with wit in the highest degree keen and sarcastic;
and with all those powers exalted and invigorated by the just confidence in his cause.

"Thus qualified, and thus incited, he walked out to battle, and assailed at once most of the
living writers, from Dryden to Durfey. His onset was violent: those passages, which while they
stood single, had passed with little notice, when they were accumulated and exposed together
caught the alarm, and the nation wondered why it had so long suffered irreligion and licentiousness
charge."

Notwithstanding the justice of this description, there is a strange mixture of sense and nonsense
in Collier's celebrated treatise. Not contented with resting his objections to dramatic immorality
and religion, Jeremy labours to confute the poets of the 17th century, by drawing them into
comparison with Plautus and Aristophanes, which is certainly judging of one crooked line by
another. Neither does he omit, like his predecessor Prynne, to marshal against the British
stage those fulminations directed by the fathers of the Church against the Pagan theatres;
although Collier could not but know, that it was the performance of the heathen ritual, and
not merely the action of the drama, which rendered it sinful for the early Christians to attend
the theatre. The book was, however, of great service to dramatic poetry, which, from that time,
was less degraded by licence and indelicacy.

Dryden, it may be believed, had, as his comedies well deserved, a liberal share of the general
censure; but, however he might have felt the smart of Collier's severity, he had the magnanimity
to acknowledge its justice. In the preface to the Fables, he makes the amende honorable. "I
shall say the less of Mr. Collier, because in many things he has taxed me justly; and I have
pleaded guilty to all thoughts and expressions of mine, which can be truly argued of obscenity,
profaneness, or immorality, and retract them. If he be my enemy, let him triumph; if he be
my friend, as I have given him no personal occasion to be otherwise, he will be glad of my
repentance. It becomes me not to draw my pen in the defence of a bad cause, when I have so
often drawn it for a good one." To this manly and liberal admission, he has indeed tacked a
complaint, that Collier had sometimes, by a strained interpretation, made the evil sense of
which he complained; that he had too much "horse-play in his raillery;" and that, "if the zeal
for God's house had not eaten him up, it had at least devoured some part of his good manners
and civility." Collier seems to have been somewhat pacified by this qualified acknowledgment,
and, during the rest of the controversy, turned his arms chiefly against Congreve, who resisted,
and spared, comparatively at least, the sullen submission of Dryden.[36]

While these controversies were raging, Dryden's time was occupied with the translations or
imitations of Chaucer and Boccacio. Among these, the "Character of the Good Parson" is introduced,
probably to confute Milbourne, Blackmore, and Collier, who had severally charged our author
with the wilful and premeditated contumely thrown upon the clergy in many passages of his satirical
writings. This too seems to have inflamed the hatred of Swift, who, with all his levities,
was strictly attached to his order, and keenly jealous of its honours.[37] Dryden himself seems
to have been conscious of his propensity to assail churchmen. Indeed, his original offences
of this kind may be safely ascribed to the fashionable practice, after the Restoration, of
laughing at all that was accounted serious before that period.

And when Dryden became a convert to the Catholic faith, he was, we have seen, involved in an
immediate and furious controversy with the clergy of the Church of England. Thus, an unbeseeming
strain of raillery, adopted in wantonness, became aggravated, by controversy, into real dislike
and animosity. But Dryden, in the "Character of a Good Parson," seems determined to show that
he could estimate the virtue of the clerical order. He undertook the task at the instigation
of Mr. Pepys, the founder of the Library in Magdalen College, which bears his name;[40] and
has accomplished it with equal spirit and elegance; not forgetting, however, to make his pattern
of clerical merit of his own jacobitical principles.

Another very pleasing performance, which entered [into] the Miscellany called "The Fables,"
is the epistle to John Driden of Chesterton, the poet's cousin. The letters to Mrs. Steward
show the friendly intimacy in which the relations had lived, since the opposition of the Whigs
to King William's government in some degree united that party in conduct, though not in motive,
with the favourers of King James. Yet our author's strain of politics, as at first expressed
in the epistle, was too severe for his cousin's digestion. Some reflections upon the Dutch
allies, and their behaviour in the war, were omitted, as tending to reflect upon King William;
and the whole piece, to avoid the least chance of giving offence, was subjected to the revision
of Montague, with a deprecation of his displeasure, an entreaty of his patronage, and the humiliating
offer, that, although repeated correction had already purged the spirit out of the poem, nothing
should stand in it relating to public affairs. without Mr. Montague's permission. What answer
"full-blown Bufo" returned to Dryden's petition, does not appear; but the author's opposition
principles were so deeply woven in with the piece, that they could not be obliterated without
tearing it to pieces. His model of an English member of parliament votes in opposition, as
his Good Parson is a nonjuror, and the Fox in the fable of Old Chaucer is translated into a
puritan.[41] The epistle was highly acceptable to Mr. Driden of Chesterton, who acknowledged
the immortality conferred on him, by "a noble present," which family tradition states to have
amounted to £500.[42] Neither did Dryden neglect so fair an opportunity to avenge himself on
his personal, as well as his political adversaries. Milbourne and Blackmore receive in the
epistle severe chastisement for their assaults upon his poetry and private character:

  "What help from art's endeavours can we have?
  Guibbons but guesses, nor is sure to save;
  But Maurus sweeps whole parishes, and peoples every grave,
  And no more mercy to mankind will use
  Than when he robbed and murdered Maro's muse.
  Wouldst thou be soon despatched, and perish whole,
  Trust Maurus with thy life, and Milbourne with thy soul"

Referring to another place, what occurs upon the style and execution of the Fables, I have
only to add, that they were published early in spring 1700, in a large folio, and with the
"Ode to Saint Cecilia." The epistle to Driden of Chesterton, and a translation of the first
Iliad, must have move than satisfied the mercantile calculations of Tonson, since they contained
seventeen hundred verses above the quantity which Dryden had contracted to deliver. In the
preface, the author vindicates himself with great spirit against his literary adversaries;
makes his usual strong and forcible remarks on the genius of the authors whom he had imitated;
and, in this his last critical work, shows all the acumen which had so long distinguished his
powers. The Fables were dedicated to the last Duke of Ormond, the grandson of the Barzillai
of "Absalom and Achitophel," and the son of the heroic Earl of Ossory; friends both, and patrons
of Dryden's earlier essays. There is something affecting in a connection so honourably maintained;
and the sentiment, as touched by Dryden, is simply pathetic. "I am not vain enough to boast,
that I have deserved the value of so illustrious a line; but my fortune is the greater, that
for three descents they have been pleased to distinguish my poems from those of other men;
and have accordingly made me their peculiar care. May it be permitted me to say, that as your
grandfather and father were cherished monarchs, so I have been esteemed and patronised by the
grandfather, the father, and the son, descended from one of the most ancient, most conspicuous,
and most deserving families in Europe."

There were also prefixed to the "Fables," those introductory verses addressed to the beautiful
Duchess of Ormond,[43] which have all the easy, felicitous, and sprightly gallantry, demanded
on such occasions. The incense, it is said, was acknowledged by a present of £500; a donation
worthy of the splendid house of Ormond. The sale of the "Fables" was surprisingly slow: even
the death of the author, which has often sped away a lingering impression, does not seem to
have increased the demand; and the second edition was not printed till 1713, when, Dryden and
all his immediate descendants being no more, the sum stipulated upon that event was paid by
Tonson to Lady Sylvius, daughter of one of Lady Elizabeth Dryden's brothers, for the benefit
of his widow, then in a state of lunacy.--See Appendix, vol. xviii.

The end of Dryden's labours was now fast approaching; and, as his career began upon the stage,
it was in some degree doomed to terminate there. It is true, he never recalled his resolution
to write no more plays; but Vanbrugh having about this time revised and altered for the Drury-lane
theatre, Fletcher's lively comedy of "The Pilgrim," it was agreed that Dryden, or, as one account
says, his son Charles,[44] should have the profits of a third night on condition of adding
to the piece a Secular Masque, adapted to the supposed termination of the seventeenth century;[45]
a Dialogue in the Madhouse between two Distracted Lovers; and a Prologue and Epilogue. The
Secular Masque contains a beautiful and spirited delineation of the reigns of James I., Charles
I., and Charles II., in which the influence of Diana, Mars, and Venus, are supposed to have
respectively predominated. Our author did not venture to assign a patron to the last years
of the century, though the expulsion of Saturn might have given a hint for it. The music of
the Masque is said to have been good; at least it is admired by the eccentric author of John
Buncle.[46] The Prologue and Epilogue to "The Pilgrim," were written within twenty days of
Dryden's death; [47] and their spirit equals that of any of his satirical compositions. They
afford us the less pleasing conviction, that even the last fortnight of Dryden's life was occupied
in repelling or retorting the venomed attacks of his literary foes. In the Prologue, he gives
Blackmore a drubbing which would have annihilated any author of ordinary modesty; but the knight[48]
was as remarkable for his powers of endurance, as some modern pugilists are said to be, for
the quality technically called bottom. After having been "brayed in a mortar," as Solomon expresses
it, by every wit of his time, Sir Richard not only survived to commit new offences against
ink and paper, but had his faction, his admirers, and his panegyrists, among that numerous
and sober class of readers, who think that genius consists in good intention.[49] In the Epilogue,
Dryden attacks Collier, but with more courteous weapons: it is rather a palliation than a defence
of dramatic immorality, and contains nothing personally offensive to Collier. Thus so dearly
was Dryden's preeminent reputation purchased, that even his last hours were embittered with
controversy; and nature, over-watched and worn out, was, like a besieged garrison, forced to
obey the call to arms, and defend reputation even with the very last exertion of the vital spirit.

The approach of death was not, however, so gradual as might have been expected from the poet's
chronic diseases. He had long suffered both by the gout and gravel, and more lately the erysipelas
seized one of his legs. To a shattered frame and a corpulent habit, the most trifling accident
is often fatal. A slight inflammation in one of his toes, became, from neglect, a gangrene.
Mr. Hobbes, an eminent surgeon, to prevent mortification, proposed to amputate the limb; but
Dryden, who had no reason to be in love with life, refused the chance of prolonging it by a
doubtful and painful operation.[50] After a short interval, the catastrophe expected by Mr.
Hobbes took place, and, Dryden not long surviving the consequences, left life on Wednesday
morning, 1st May 1700, at three o'clock. He seems to have been sensible till nearly his last
moments, and died in the Roman Catholic faith, with submission and entire resignation to the
divine will; "taking of his friends," says Mrs. Creed, one of the sorrowful number, "so tender
and obliging a farewell, as none but he himself could have expressed."

The death of a man like Dryden, especially in narrow and neglected circumstances, is usually
an alarum-bell to the public. Unavailing and mutual reproaches, for unthankful and pitiless
negligence, waste themselves in newspaper paragraphs, elegies, and funeral processions; the
debt to genius is then deemed discharged, and a new account of neglect and commemoration is
opened between the public and the next who rises to supply his room. It was thus with Dryden:
His family were preparing to bury him with the decency becoming their limited circumstances,
when Charles Montague, Lord Jefferies, and other men of quality, made a subscription for a
public funeral. The body of the poet was then removed to the Physicians' Hall, where it was
embalmed, and lay in state till the 13th day of May, twelve days after the decease. On that
day, the celebrated Dr. Garth pronounced a Latin oration over the remains of his departed friend;
which were then, with considerable state, preceded by a band of music, and attended by a numerous
procession of carriages, transported to Westminster Abbey, and deposited between the graves
of Chaucer and Cowley.

The malice of Dryden's contemporaries, which he had experienced through life, attempted to
turn into burlesque these funeral honours. Farquhar, the comic dramatist, wrote a letter containing
a ludicrous account of the funeral;[51] in which, as Mr. Malone most justly remarks, he only
sought to amuse his fair correspondent by an assemblage of ludicrous and antithetical expressions
and ideas, which, when accurately examined, express little more than the bustle and confusion
which attends every funeral procession of uncommon splendour. Upon this ground-work, Mrs. Thomas
(the Corinna of Pope and Cromwell) raised, at the distance of thirty years, the marvellous
structure of fable, which has been copied by all Dryden's biographers, till the industry of
Mr. Malone has sent it, with other figments of the same lady, to "the grave of all the Capulets."[52]
She appears to have been something assisted by a burlesque account of the funeral, imputed
by Mr. Malone to Tom Brown, who certainly continued to insult Dryden's memory whenever an opportunity
offered.[53]  Indeed, Mrs. Thomas herself quotes this last respectable authority. It must be
a well-conducted and uncommon public ceremony, where the philosopher can find nothing to condemn,
nor the satirist to ridicule; yet, to our imagination, what can be more striking, than the
procession of talent and rank, which escorted the remains of DRYDEN to the tomb of CHAUCER!

The private character of the individual, his personal appearance, and rank in society, are
the circumstances which generally interest the public most immediately upon his decease.

We are enabled, from the various paintings and engravings of Dryden, as well as from the less
flattering delineations of the satirists of his time, to form a tolerable idea of his face
and person. In youth, he appears to have been handsome,[54] and of a pleasing countenance:
when his age was more advanced, he was corpulent and florid, which procured him the nickname
attached to him by Rochester.[55] In his latter days, distress and disappointment probably
chilled the fire of his eye, and the advance of age destroyed the animation of his countenance.[56]
Still, however, his portraits bespeak the look and features of genius; especially that in which
he is drawn with his waving grey hairs.

In disposition and moral character, Dryden is represented as most amiable, by all who had access
to know him; and his works, as well as letters, bear evidence to the justice of their panegyric.
Congreve's character of the poet was drawn doubtless favourably, yet it contains points which
demonstrate its fidelity.

"Whoever shall censure me, I dare be confident, you, my lord, will excuse me for anything that
I shall say with due regard to a gentleman, for whose person I had as just an affection as
I have an admiration of his writings. And indeed Mr. Dryden had personal qualities to challenge
both love and esteem from all who were truly acquainted with him.

"Such a temperament is the only solid foundation of all moral virtues and sociable endowments.
His friendship, where he professed it, went much beyond his professions; and I have been told
of strong and generous instances of it by the persons themselves who received them, though
his hereditary income was little more than a bare competency.

"As his reading had been very extensive, so was he very happy in a memory, tenacious of everything
that he had read. He was not more possessed of knowledge, than he was communicative of it.
But then his communication of it was by no means pedantic, or imposed upon the conversation;
but just such, and went so far, as, by the natural turns of the discourse in which he was engaged,
it was necessarily promoted or required. Indeed, it is to be regretted, that he was rather
blameable in the other extreme; for, by that means, he was personally less known, and, consequently,
his character might become liable both to misapprehensions and misrepresentations.

"To the best of my knowledge and observation, he was, of all the men that I ever knew, one
of the most modest, and the most easily to be discountenanced in his approaches either to his
superiors or his equals."

This portrait is from the pen of friendship; yet, if we consider all the circumstances of Dryden's
life, we cannot deem it much exaggerated. For about forty years, his character, personal and
literary, was the object of assault by every subaltern scribbler, titled or untitled, laureated
or pilloried. "My morals," he himself has said, "have been sufficiently aspersed; that only
sort of reputation, which ought to be dear to every honest man, and is to me." In such an assault,
no weapon would remain unhandled, no charge, true or false, unurged; and what qualities we
do not there find excepted against, must surely be admitted to pass to the credit of Dryden.
His change of political opinion, from the time he entered life under the protection of a favourite
of Cromwell, might have argued instability, if he had changed a second time, when the current
of power and popular opinion set against the doctrines of the Reformation. As it is, we must
hold Dryden to have acted from conviction, since personal interest, had that been the ruling
motive of his political conduct, would have operated as strongly in 1688 as in 1660. The change
of his religion we have elsewhere discussed; and endeavoured to show that, although Dryden
was unfortunate in adopting the more corrupted form of our religion, yet, considered relatively,
it was a fortunate and laudable conviction which led him from the mazes of scepticism to become
a catholic of the communion of Rome.[57] It would be vain to maintain, that in his early career
he was free from the follies and vices of a dissolute period; but the absence of every positive
charge, and the silence of numerous accusers, may be admitted to prove, that he partook in
them more from general example than inclination, and with a moderate, rather than voracious
or undistinguishing appetite. It must be admitted, that he sacrificed to the Belial or Asmodeus
of the age, in his writings; and that he formed his taste upon the licentious and gay society
with which he mingled. But we have the testimony of one who knew him well, that, however loose
his comedies, the temper of the author was modest;[58] his indelicacy was like the forced impudence
of a bashful man; and Rochester has accordingly upbraided him, that his licentiousness was
neither natural nor seductive. Dryden had unfortunately conformed enough to the taste of his
age, to attempt that "nice mode of wit," as it is termed by the said noble author, whose name
has become inseparably connected with it; but it sate awkwardly upon his natural modesty, and
in general sounds impertinent, as well as disgusting. The clumsy phraseology of Burnet, in
passing censure on the immorality of the stage, after the Restoration, terms "Dryden, the greatest
master of dramatic poesy, a monster of immodesty and of impurity of all sorts." The expression
called forth the animated defence of Granville, Lord Lansdowne, our author's noble friend.
"All who knew him," said Lansdowne, "can testify this was not his character. He was so much
a stranger to immodesty, that modesty in too great a degree was his failing: he hurt his fortune
by it, he complained of it, and never could overcome it. He was," adds he, "esteemed, courted,
and admired, by all the great men of the age in which he lived, who would certainly not have
received into friendship a monster abandoned to all sorts of vice and impurity. His writings
will do immortal honour to his name and country, and his poems last as long, if I may have
leave to say it, as the Bishop's sermons, supposing them to be equally excellent in their kind."[59]

The Bishop's youngest son, Thomas Burnet, in replying to Lord Lansdowne, explained his father's
last expressions as limited to Dryden's plays, and showed, by doing so, that there was no foundation
for fixing this gross and dubious charge upon his private moral character.

Dryden's conduct as a father, husband, and master of a family, seems to have been affectionate,
faithful, and, so far as his circumstances admitted, liberal and benevolent. The whole tenor
of his correspondence bears witness to his paternal feelings; and even when he was obliged
to have recourse to Tonson's immediate assistance to pay for the presents he sent them, his
affection vented itself in that manner. As a husband, if Lady Elizabeth's peculiarities of
temper precluded the idea of a warm attachment, he is not upbraided with neglect or infidelity
by any of his thousand assailants. As a landlord, Mr. Malone has informed us, on the authority
of Lady Dryden, that "his little estate at Blakesley is at this day occupied by one Harriots,
grandson of the tenant who held it in Dryden's time; and he relates, that his grandfather was
used to take great pleasure in talking of our poet. He was, he said, the easiest and the kindest
landlord in the world, and never raised the rent during the whole time he possessed the estate."

Some circumstances, however, may seem to degrade so amiable a private, so sublime a poetical
character. The licence of his comedy, as we have seen, had for it only the apology of universal
example, and must be lamented, though not excused. Let us, however, remember, that if in the
hey-day of the merry monarch's reign, Dryden ventured to maintain, that, the prime end of poetry
being pleasure, the muses ought not to be fettered by the chains of strict decorum; yet in
his more advanced and sober mood, he evinced sincere repentance for his trespass, by patient
and unresisting submission to the coarse and rigorous chastisement of Collier. If it is alleged,
that, in the fury of his loyal satire, he was not always solicitous concerning its justice,
let us make allowance for the prejudice of party, and consider at what advantage, after the
laps of more than a century, and through the medium of impartial history, we now view characters,
who were only known to their contemporaries as zealous partisans of an opposite and detested
faction. The moderation of Dryden's reprisals, when provoked by the grossest calumny and personal
insult, ought also to plead in his favour. Of the hundreds who thus assailed, not only his
literary, but his moral reputation, he has distinguished Settle and Shadwell alone by an elaborate
retort. Those who look into Mr. Luttrell's collections, will at once see the extent of Dryden's
sufferance, and the limited nature of his retaliation.

The extreme flattery of Dryden's dedications has been objected to him, as a fault of an opposite
description; and perhaps no writer has equalled him in the profusion and elegance of his adulation.
"Of this kind of meanness," says Johnson, "he never seems to decline the practice, or lament
the necessity. It may be noticed, in palliation of this heavy charge, that the form of address
to superiors must be judged of by the manners of the times; and that the adulation contained
in dedications was then as much a matter of course, as the words of submissive style which
still precede the subscription Dryden considered his panegyrics as merely conforming with the
fashion of the day, and rendering unto Caesar the things which were Caesar's,--attended with
no more degradation than the payment of any other tribute to the forms of politeness and usage
of the world.

Of Dryden's general habits of life we can form a distinct idea, from the evidence assembled
by Mr. Malone. His mornings were spent in study; he dined with his family, probably about two
o'clock. After dinner he went usually to Will's Coffeehouse, the famous rendezvous of the wits
of the time, where he had his established chair by the chimney in winter, and near the balcony
in summer, whence he pronounced, ex cathedra, his opinion upon new publications, and, in general,
upon all matters of dubious criticism.[60] Latterly, all who had occasion to ridicule or attack
him, represent him as presiding in this little senate.[61] His opinions, however, were not
maintained with dogmatism; and we have an instance, in a pleasing anecdote told by Dr. Lockier,[62]
that Dryden readily listened to criticism, provided it was just, from whatever unexpected and
undignified quarter it happened to come. In general, however, it may be supposed, that few
ventured to dispute his opinion, or place themselves of his censure. He was most falsely accused
of carrying literary jealousy to such a length, as feloniously to encourage Creech to venture
on a translation of Horace, that he might lose the character he had gained by a version of
Lucretius. But this is positively contradicted, upon the authority of Southerne.[63]

We have so often stopped in our narrative of Dryden's life, to notice the respectability of
his general society, that little need here be said on the subject. Although no enemy to conviviality,
he is pronounced by Pope to have been regular in his hours in comparison with Addison, who
otherwise lived the same coffee-house course of life. He has himself told us, that he was "saturnine
and reserved, and not one of those who endeavour to entertain company by lively sallies of
merriment and wit;" and an adversary has put into his mouth this couplet--

  "Nor wine nor love could ever see me gay;
  To writing bred, I knew not what to say."

Dryden's Satire to his Muse.

But the admission of the author, and the censure of the satirist, must be received with some
limitation. Dryden was thirty years old before he was freed from the fetters of puritanism;
and if the habits of lively expression in society are not acquired before that age, they are
seldom gained afterward. But this applies only to the deficiency of repartee, in the sharp
encounter of wit which was fashionable at the court of Charles, and cannot be understood to
exclude Dryden's possessing the more solid qualities of agreeable conversation, arising from
a memory profoundly stocked with knowledge, and a fancy which supplied modes of illustration
faster than the author could use them.[64] Some few sayings of Dryden have been, however, preserved;
which, if not witty, are at least jocose. He is said to have been the original author of the
repartee to the Duke of Buckingham, who, in bowling, offered to lay "his soul to a turnip,"
or something still more vile. "Give me the odds," said Dryden, "and I take the bet." When his
wife wished to be a book, that she might enjoy more of his company, "Be an almanac then, my
dear," said the poet, "that I may change you once a year."[65] Another time, a friend expressing
his astonishment that even D'Urfey could write such stuff as a play they had just witnessed,
"Ah, sir," replied Dryden, "you do not know my friend Tom so well as I do; I'll answer for
him, he can write worse yet." None of these anecdotes intimate great brilliancy of repartee;
but that Dryden, possessed of such a fund of imagination, and acquired learning, should be
dull in conversation, is impossible. He is known frequently to have regaled his friends, by
communicating to them a part of his labours; but his poetry suffered by his recitation. He
read his productions very ill;[66] owing, perhaps, to the modest reserve of his temper, which
prevented his showing an animation in which he feared his audience might not participate. The
same circumstance may have repressed the liveliness of his conversation. I know not, however,
whether we are, with Mr. Malone, to impute to diffidence his general habit of consulting his
literary friends upon his poems, before they became public, since it might as well arise from
a wish to anticipate and soften criticism.[67]

Of Dryden's learning, his works form the best proof. He had read Polybius before he was ten
years of age;[68] and was doubtless well acquainted with the Greek and Roman classics. But
from these studies he could descend to read romances: and the present editor records with pride,
that Dryden was a decided admirer of old ballads and popular tales.[69] His researches sometimes
extended into the vain province of judicial astrology, in which he was a firm believer; and
there is reason to think that he also credited divination by dreams. In the country, he delighted
in the pastime of fishing, and used, says Mr. Malone, to spend some time with Mr. Jones of
Ramsden, in Wiltshire. D'Urfey was sometimes of this party; but Dryden appears to have undervalued
his skill in fishing, as much as his attempts at poetry. Hence Fenton, in his Epistle to Mr.
Lambard:

  "By long experience, D'Urfey may no doubt
  Ensnare a gudgeon, or sometimes a trout;
  Yet Dryden once exclaimed, in partial spite,
  'He fish!'--because the man attempts to write."

I may conclude this notice of Dryden's habits, which I have been enabled to give chiefly by
the researches of Mr. Malone, with two notices of a minute nature. Dryden was a great taker
of snuff, which he made himself. Moreover, as a preparation to a course of study, he usually
took medicine, and observed a cooling diet.[70]

Dryden's house, which he appears to have resided in from the period of his marriage till his
death, was in Gerrard Street, the fifth on the left hand coming from Little Newport Street.[71]
The back windows looked upon the gardens of Leicester House, of which circumstance our poet
availed himself to pay a handsome compliment to the noble owner.[72] His excursions to the
country seem to have been frequent; perhaps the more so, as Lady Elizabeth always remained
in town. In his latter days, the friendship of his relations, John Driden of Chesterton, and
Mrs. Steward of Cotterstock, rendered their houses agreeable places of abode to the aged poet.
They appear also to have had a kind solicitude about his little comforts, of value infinitely
beyond aiding them. And thus concludes all that we have learned of the private life of Dryden.

The fate of Dryden's family must necessarily interest the admirers of English literature. It
consisted of his wife, Lady Elizabeth Dryden, and three sons, John, Charles, and Erasmus Henry.
Upon the poet's death, it may be believed, they felt themselves slenderly provided for, since
all his efforts, while alive, were necessary to secure them from the gripe of penury.

Yet their situation was not very distressing. John and Erasmus Henry were abroad; and each
had an office at Rome, in which he was able to support himself. Charles had for some time been
entirely dependent on his father, and administered to his effects, as he died without a will.
The liberality of the Duchess of Ormond, and of Driden of Chesterton, had been lately received,
and probably was not expended. There was, besides, the poet's little patrimonial estate, and
a small property in Wiltshire, which the Earl of Berkshire settled upon Lady Elizabeth at her
marriage, and which yielded £50 or £60 annually. There was therefore an income of about £100
a year, to maintain the poet's widow and children; enough in these times to support them in
decent frugality.

Lady Elizabeth Dryden's temper had long disturbed her husband's domestic happiness. "His invectives,"
says Mr. Malone, "against the married state are frequent and bitter, and were continued to
the latest period of his life;" and he adds, from most respectable authority, that the family
of the poet held no intimacy with his lady, confining their intercourse to mere visits of ceremony.[73]
A similar alienation seems to have taken place between her and her own relations, Sir Robert
Howard, perhaps, being excepted; for her brother, the Honourable Edward Howard, talks of Virgil,
as a thing he had learned merely by common report.[74] Her wayward disposition was, however,
the effect of a disordered imagination which, shortly after Dryden's death, degenerated into
absolute insanity, in which state she remained until her death in summer 1714, probably, says
Mr. Malone, in the seventy-ninth year of her life.

Dryden's three sons, says the inscription by Mrs. Creed, were ingenious and accomplished gentlemen.
Charles, the eldest, and favourite son of the poet, was born at Charlton, Wiltshire, in 1666.
He received a classical education under Dr. Busby, his father's preceptor, and was chosen King's
Scholar in 1680. Being elected to Trinity College in Cambridge, he was admitted a member in
1683. It would have been difficult to conceive that the son of Dryden should not have attempted
poetry; but though Charles Dryden escaped the fate of Icarus, he was very, very far from emulating
his father's soaring flight. Mr. Malone has furnished a list of his compositions in Latin and
English.[75] About 1692, he went to Italy, and through the interest of Cardinal Howard, to
whom he was related by the mother's side, he became Chamberlain of the Household; not, as Corinna
pretends, "to that remarkably fine gentleman, Pope Clement XI.," but to Pope Innocent XII.
His way to this preferment was smoothed by a pedigree drawn up in Latin by his father, of the
families of Dryden and Howard, which is said to have been deposited in the Vatican. Dryden,
whose turn for judicial astrology we have noticed, had calculated the nativity of his son Charles;
and it would seem that a part of his predictions were fortuitously fulfilled. Charles, however,
having suffered, while at Rome, by a fall, and his health, in consequence, being much injured,
his father prognosticated he would begin to recover in the month of September 1697. The issue
did no great credit to the prediction; for young Dryden returned to England in 1698 in the
same indifferent state of health, as is obvious from the anxious solicitude with which his
father always mentions Charles in his correspondence. Upon the poet's death, Charles, we have
seen, administered to his effects on 10th June 1700, Lady Elizabeth, his mother, renouncing
the succession. In the next year, Granville conferred on him the profits arising from the author's
night of an alteration of Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice;" and his liberality to the son
of one great bard may be admitted to balance his presumption in manufacturing a new drama out
of the labours of another.[76] Upon the 20th August 1704, Charles Dryden was drowned, in an
attempt to swim across the Thames, at Datchet, near Windsor. I have degraded into the Appendix,
the romantic narrative of Corinna, concerning his father's prediction, already mentioned. It
contains, like her account of the funeral of the poet, much positive falsehood, and gross improbability,
with some slight scantling of foundation in fact.

John Dryden, the poet's second son, was born in 1667, or 1668, was admitted a King's Scholar
in Westminster in 1682, and elected to Oxford in 1685. Here he became a private pupil of the
celebrated Obadiah Walker, Master of University College, a Roman Catholic. It seems probable
that young Dryden became a convert to that faith before his father. His religion making it
impossible for him to succeed in England, he followed his brother Charles to Rome, where he
officiated as his deputy in the Pope's household. John Dryden translated the fourteenth Satire
of Juvenal, published in his father's version, and wrote a comedy entitled, "The Husband his
own Cuckold," acted in Lincoln's Inn Fields in 1696; Dryden, the father, furnishing a prologue,
and Congreve an epilogue. In 1700-1, he made a tour through Sicily and Malta, and his journal
was published in 1706. It seems odd, that in the whole course of his journal, he never mentions
his father's name, nor makes the least allusion to his very recent death. John Dryden, the
younger, died at Rome soon after this excursion.

Erasmus Henry, Dryden's third son, was born 2d May 1669, and educated in the Charterhouse,
to which he was nominated by Charles II., shortly after the publication of "Absalom and Achitophel."[77]
He does not appear to have been at any university; probably his religion was the obstacle.
Like his brothers, he went to Rome; and as both his father and mother request his prayers,
we are to suppose he was originally destined for the Church. But he became a Captain in the
Pope's guards, and remained at Rome till John Dryden, his elder brother's death. After this
event, he seems to have returned to England, and in 1708 succeeded to the title of Baronet,
as representative of Sir Erasmus Driden. the author's grandfather. But the estate of Canons-Ashby,
which should have accompanied the title, had been devised by Sir Robert Driden, the poet's
first cousin, to Edward Dryden, the eldest son of Erasmus, the younger brother of the poet.
Thus, if the author had lived a few years longer, his pecuniary embarrassments would have been
embittered by his succeeding to the honours of his family, without any means of sustaining
the rank they gave him. With this Edward Dryden, Sir Erasmus Henry seems to have resided until
his death, which took place at the family mansion of Canons-Ashby in 1710. Edward acted as
a manager of his cousin's affairs; and Mr. Malone sees reason to think, from their mode of
accounting, that Sir Erasmus Henry had, like his mother, been visited with mental derangement
before his death, and had resigned into Edward's hands the whole management of his concerns.
Thus ended the poet's family, none of his sons surviving him above ten years. The estate of
Canons-Ashby became again united to the title, in the person of John Dryden, the surviving
brother.[78]

FOOTNOTES

[1] Such, I understand, is the general purport of some letters of Dryden's, in possession of
the Dorset family, which contain certain particulars rendering them unfit for publication.
Our author himself commemorates Dorset's generosity in the Essay on Satire, in the following
affecting passage: "Though I must ever acknowledge to the honour of your lordship, and the
eternal memory of your charity, that since this Revolution, wherein I have patiently suffered
the ruin of my small fortune, and the loss of that poor subsistence which I had from two kings,
whom I had served more faithfully than profitably to myself-- then your lordship was pleased,
out of no other motive but your own nobleness, without any desert of mine, or the least solicitation
from me, to make me a most bountiful present, which at that time, when I was most in want of
it, came most seasonably and unexpectedly to my relief. That favour, my lord, is of itself
sufficient to bind any grateful man to a perpetual acknowledgment, and to all the future service
which one of my mean condition can be ever able to perform. May the Almighty God return it
for me, both in blessing you here, and rewarding you hereafter!"--Essay on Satire, vol. xiii.

[2] So says Ward, in the London Spy.

[3] "Dryden, though my near relation," says Swift, "is one whom I have often blamed, as well
as pitied." Mr. Malone traces their consanguinity to Swift's grandmother, Elizabeth Dryden,
being the daughter of a brother of Sir Erasmus Driden, the poet's grandfather; so that the
Dean of St. Patrick's was the son of Dryden's second cousin, which, in Scotland, would even
yet be deemed a near relation. The passages in prose and verse, in which Swift reflects on
Dryden, are various. He mentions, in his best poem, "The Rhapsody,"

         "The prefaces of Dryden,
  For these our cities much confide in,
  Though merely writ at first for filling,
  To raise the volume's price a shilling."

He introduces Dryden in "The Battle of the Books," with a most irreverent description; and
many of the brilliant touches in the following assumed character of a hack author, are directed
against our poet. The malignant allusions to merits, to sufferings, to changes of opinion,
to political controversies, and a peaceful consciences, cannot be mistaken. The piece was probably
composed flagrante odio, for it occurs in the Introduction to "The Tale of a Tub," which was
written about 1692. "These notices may serve to give the learned reader an idea, as well as
taste, of what the whole work is likely to produce, wherein I have now altogether circumscribed
my thoughts and my studies; and, if I can bring it to a perfection before I die, I shall reckon
I have well employed the poor remains of an unfortunate life. This indeed is more than I can
justly expect, from a quill worn to the pith in the service of the state, in pros and cons
upon popish plots, and meal tubs, and exclusion bills, and passive obedience, and addresses
of lives and fortunes, and prerogative, and property and liberty of conscience, and letters
to a friend: from an understanding and a conscience, threadbare and ragged with perpetual turning;
from a head broken in a hundred places by the malignants of the opposite factions; and from
a body spent with poxes ill cured, by trusting to bawds and surgeons, who, as it afterwards
appeared, were professed enemies to me and the government, and revenged their party's quarrel
upon my nose and shins. Fourscore and eleven pamphlets have I written under three reigns, and
for the service of six and thirty factions. But finding the state has no farther occasion for
me and my ink, I retire willingly to draw it out into speculations more becoming a philosopher;
having, to my unspeakable comfort, passed a long life with a conscience void of offence." [See
Appendix, vol. xviii., art. "Dryden and Swift."--ED.]

[4] [The exact sentence seems to have been "a Pindaric poet." But as Swift had tried nothing
but Pindarics, it was nearly if not quite as severe as the more usually quoted and more sweeping
verdict.--ED.]

[5] Robert Gould, author of that scandalous lampoon against Dryden, entitled "The Laureat,"
inscribes his collection of poems, printed 1688-9, to the Earl of Abingdon; and it contains
some pieces addressed to him and to his lady. He survived also to compose, on the Earl's death,
in 1700, "The Mourning Swan," an eclogue to his memory, in which a shepherd gives the following
account of the proximate cause of that event:

  "Menaleus. To tell you true (whoe'er it may displease),
  He died of the Physician--a disease
  That long has reigned, and eager of renown,
  More than a plague depopulates the town.
  Inflamed with wine, and blasting at a breath,
  All its prescriptions are receipts for death.
  Millions of mischiefs by its rage are wrought,
  Safe where 'tis fled, but barbarous where 'tis sought;
  A cursed ingrateful ill, that called to aid,
  Is still most fatal where it best is paid."

[6] How far this was necessary, the reader may judge from Mirana, a funeral eclogue; sacred
to the memory of that excellent lady, Eleonora, late Countess of Abingdon, 1691, 4th Aug.,
which concludes with the following singular imprecation:

  "Hear, friend, my sacred imprecation hear,
  And let both of us kneel, and both be bare.
  Doom me (ye powers) to misery and shame,
  Let mine be the most ignominious name,
  Let me, each day, be with new griefs perplext,
  Curst in this life, nor blessed in the next,
  If I believe the like of her survives,
  Or if I think her not the best of mothers, and of wives."

[7] 30th August 1693, Dryden writes to Tonson, "I am sure you thought my Lord Radclyffe would
have done something; I guessed more truly, that he could not."--Vol. xviii. The expression
perhaps applies rather to his lordship's want of ability than inclination; and Dryden says
indeed, in the dedication, that it is in his nature to be an encourager of good poets, though
fortune has not yet put into his hands the power of expressing it. In a letter to Mrs. Steward,
Dryden speaks of Ratcliffe as a poet, "and none of the best."--Vol. xviii.

[8] Vol. xviii.

[9] Copied from the Chandos picture. Kneller's copy is now at Wentworth House, the seat of
Earl Fitzwilliam.

[10]  The antiquary may now search in vain for this frail memorial; for the house of Chesterton
was, 1807, pulled down for the sake of the materials.

[11] The exact pecuniary arrangements for the Virgil are a matter of much dispute, almost every
biographer taking a different view. It seems most probable that the payment was fifty pounds
per two books, not fifty for each. The point will be more fully discussed on the letters dealing
with the subject.--Ed.

[12] This gave rise to a good epigram:

   "Old Jacob, by deep judgment swayed,
     To please the wise beholders,
   Has placed old Nassau's hook-nosed head
    On poor Aeneas' shoulders.

   To make the parallel hold tack,
     Methinks there's little lacking;
   One took his father pick-a-pack,
     And t'other sent his packing."
Dryden hints to Tonson himself his suspicion of this unworthy device,
desiring him to forward a letter to his son Charles, but not by post.
"Being satisfied, that Ferrand will do by this as he did by two letters
which I sent my sons, about my dedicating to the king, of which they
received neither."--Vol. xviii.

[14] Johnson's "Life of Dryden."

[15] [Professor Masson calculates, apparently on good grounds, that Simmons probably made about
five or six times what he paid. This, in not much more than a year, cannot be considered a
bad trade return; but the sale price of "Paradise Lost" seems to provoke unfounded commonplaces
from even the most unexpected sources.--ED.]

[16] "I confess to have been somewhat liberal in the business of titles, having observed the
humour of multiplying them, to bear great vogue among certain writers, whom I exceedingly reverence.
And indeed it seems not unreasonable that books, the children of the brain, should have the
honour to be christened with variety of names, as well as other infants of quality. Our famous
Dryden has ventured to proceed a point farther, endeavouring to introduce also a multiplicity
of godfathers; which is an improvement of much more advantage, upon a very obvious account.
It is a pity this admirable invention has not been better cultivated, so as to grow by this
time into general imitation, when such an authority serves it for a precedent. Nor have my
endeavours been wanting to second so useful an example: but, it seems, there is an unhappy
expense usually annexed to the calling of a godfather, which was clearly out of my head, as
it is very reasonable to believe. Where the pinch lay, I cannot certainly affirm; but, having
employed a world of thoughts and pains to split my treatise into forty sections, and having
entreated forty lords of my acquaintance, that they would do me the honour to stand, they all
made it a matter of conscience, and sent me their excuses."

[17] Besides the notes on Virgil, he wrote many single sermons, and a metrical version of the
psalms, and died in 1720.

[18] He is described as a rake in "The Pacificator," a poem bought by Mr. Luttrell, 15th Feb.
1699-1700, which gives an account of a supposed battle between the men of wit and men of sense,
as the poet calls them:

  "M----n, a renegade from wit, came on,
  And made a false attack, and next to none;
  The hypocrite, in sense, could not conceal
  What pride, and want of brains, obliged him to reveal.
  In him, the critic's ruined by the poet,
  And Virgil gives his testimony to it.
  The troops of wit were so enraged to see
  This priest invade his own fraternity,
  They sent a party out, by silence led,
  And, without answer, shot the turn-coat dead.
  The priest, the rake, the wit, strove all in vain,
  For there, alas! he lies among the slain.
  Memento mori; see the consequence,
  When rakes and wits set up for men of sense."

[19] This, Mr. Malone has proved by the following extract from Motteux's "Gentleman's Journal."
"That best of poets (says Motteux) having so long continued a stranger to tolerable English,
Mr. Milbourne pitied his hard fate; and seeing that several great men had undertaken some episodes
of his Aeneis, without any design of Englishing the whole, he gave us the first book of it
some years ago, with a design to go through the poem. It was the misfortune of that first attempt
to appear just about the time of the late Revolution, when few had leisure to mind such books;
yet, though by reason of his absence, it was printed with a world of faults, those that are
sufficient judges have done it the justice to esteem it a very successful attempt, and cannot
but wish that he would complete the entire translation."--Gent. Journ. for August 1692.

[20] See the Preface to "A Funeral Idyll, sacred to the glorious Memory of King William III.,"
by Mr. Oldmixon.

"In the Idyll on the peace, I made the first essay to throw off rhymes, and the kind reception
that poem met with, has encouraged me to attempt it again. I have not been persuaded by my
friends to change the Idyll into Idyllium; for having an English word set me by Mr. Dryden,
which he uses indifferently with the Greek, I thought it might be as proper in an English poem.
I shall not be solicitous to justify myself to those who except against his authority, till
they produce me a better: I have heard him blamed for his innovations and coining of words,
even by persons who have already been sufficiently guilty of the fault they lay to his charge;
and shown us what we are to expect from them, were their names as well settled as his. If I
had qualifications enough to do it successfully, I should advise them to write more naturally,
delicately, and reasonably themselves, before they attack Mr. Dryden's reputation; and to think
there is something more necessary to make a man write well, than the favour of the great, or
the success of a faction. We have every year seen how fickle Fortune has been to her declared
favourites; and men of merit, as well as he who has none, have suffered by her inconstancy,
as much as they got by her smiles. This should alarm such as are eminently indebted to her,
and may be of use to them in their future reflections on others' productions, not to assume
too much to themselves from her partiality to them, lest, when they are left like their predecessor,
it should only serve to render them the more ridiculous."

[21] "Homer in a Nutshell," (16th Feb.) 1700-9, by Samuel Parker, Gent.

"Preface.--Ever since I caught some termagant ones in a club, undervaluing our new translation
of Virgil, I've known both what opinion I ought to harbour, and what use to make of them; and
since the opportunity of a digression so luckily presents itself, I shall make bold to ask
the gentlemen their sentiments of two or three lines (to pass over a thousand other instances)
which they may meet with in that work. The fourth Aeneid says of Dido, after certain effects
of her taking shelter with Aeneas in the cave appear,

  Conjuijium vocat, hoc proetexit lomine culpam,   V. 172,

which Mr. Dryden renders thus:

  She called it marriage, by that specious name
  To veil the crime, and sanctify the shame.

Nor had he before less happily rendered the 39th verse of the second Aeneid:

  Scinditur in certum studia in contraria vulgus.

  The giddy vulgar, as their fancies guide,
  With noise, say nothing, and in parts divide.

"If these are the lines which they call flat and spiritless, I wish mine could be flat and
spiritless too! And, therefore, to make short work, I shall only beg Mr. Dryden's leave to
congratulate him upon his admirable flatness, and dulness, in a rapture of poetical indignation:

  Then dares the poring critic snarl? And dare
  The[21a] puny brats of Momus threaten war?
  And can't the proud perverse Arachne's fate
  Deter the[21a] mongrels e'er it prove too late?
  In vain, alas! we warn the[21a] hardened brood;
  In vain expect they'll ever come to good.
  No: they'd conceive more venom if they could.
  But let each[21a] viper at his peril bite,
  While you defy the most ingenious spite.
  So Parian columns, raised with costly care,
  [21a] Vile snails and worms may daub, yet not impair,
  While the tough titles, and obdurate rhyme,
  Fatigue the busy grinders of old Time.
  Not but your Maro justly may complain,
  Since your translation ends his ancient reign,
  And but by your officious muse outvied,
  That vast immortal name had never died.

"[21a] I desire these appellations may not seem to affect the parties concerned, any otherwise
than as to their character of critics."

[22] Preface to the Fables, vol. xi.

[23] See several extracts from these poems in the Appendix, vol. xviii., which I have thrown
together to show how much Dryden was considered as sovereign among the poets of the time.

[24] This I learn from Honori Sacellum, a Funeral Poem, to the Memory of William, Duke of Devonshire,
1707:

  "'Twas so, when the destroyer's dreadful dart
  Once pierced through ours, to fair Maria's heart.
  From his state-helm then some short hours he stole,
  T'indulge his melting eyes, and bleeding soul:
  Whilst his bent knees, to those remains divine,
  Paid their last offering to that royal shrine."

On which lines occurs this explanatory note:--"An Ode, composed by His Grace, on the death
of the late Queen Mary, justly adjudged by the ingenious Mr. Dryden to have exceeded all that
had been written on that occasion."

[25] Dr. Birch refers to the authority of Richard Graham, junior; but no such letter has been
recovered.

[26] The authority, however respectable, has a very long chain of links. Warton heard it from
A, who heard it from B, who heard it from Pope, who heard it from Bolingbroke.--Ed.

[27] This discovery was made by the researches of Mr. Malone. Dr. Burney describes Clarke as
excelling in the tender and plaintive, to which he was prompted by a temperament of natural
melancholy. In the agonies which arose from an unfortunate attachment, he committed suicide
in July 1707. See a full account of the catastrophe in Malone's "Life of Dryden," p. 299.

[28] It was first performed on February 19, 1735-6, at opera prices. "The public expectations
and the effects of this representation (says Dr. Burney) seem to have been correspondent, for
the next day we are told in the public papers [London Daily Post, and General Advertiser, Feb.
20,] that 'there never was, upon the like occasion, so numerous and splendid an audience at
any theatre in London, there being at least thirteen hundred persons present; and it is judged
that the receipts of the house could not amount to less than £450. It met with general applause,
though attended with the inconvenience of having the performers placed at too great a distance
from the audience, which we hear will be rectified the next time of performance."--Hist. of
Music, iv. 391.

[29] See vol. xviii.

[30]   "Thine be the laurel, then; thy blooming age
  Can best, if any can, support the stage,
  Which to declines, that shortly we may see
  Players and plays reduced to second infancy.
  Sharp to the world, but thoughtless of renown,
  They plot not on the stage, but on the town;
  And in despair their empty pit to fill,
  Set up some foreign monster in a bill:
  Thus they jog on, still tricking, never thriving,
  And murth'ring plays, which they miscall--reviving.
  Our sense is nonsense, through their pipes conveyed;
  Scarce can a poet know the play he made,
  'Tis so disguised in death; nor thinks 'tis he
  That suffers in the mangled tragedy:
  Thus Itys first was killed, and after dressed
  For his own sire, the chief invited guest."

This gave great offence to the players; one of whom (Powell) made a petulant retort, which
the reader will find in a note upon the Epistle itself, vol. xi.

[31] Milbourne, in a note on that passage in the dedication to the Aeneid--"He who can write
well in rhyme, may write better in blank verse," says,--"We shall know that, when we see how
much better Dryden's Homer will be than his Virgil."

[32]  "Much the same character he gave of it (i.e.  Paradise Lost) to a north-country gentleman,
to whom I mentioned the book, he being a great reader, but not in a right train, coming to
town seldom, and keeping little company. Dryden amazed him with speaking so loftily of it.
'Why, Mr. Dryden, says he (Sir W.L. told me the thing himself), 'tis not in rhyme.' 'No, [replied
Dryden;] nor would I have done Virgil in rhyme, if I was to begin it again.'"--This conversation
is supposed by Mr. Malone to have been held with Sir Wilfrid Lawson, of Isell in Cumberland.

[33] See a letter to Mrs. Thomas, vol. xviii.

[34] "Some of these poets, to excuse their guilt, allege for themselves, that the degeneracy
of the age makes their lewd way of writing necessary: they pretend the auditors will not be
pleased, unless they are thus entertained from the stage; and to please, they say, is the chief
business of the poet. But this is by no means a just apology: it is not true, as was said before,
that the poet's chief business is to please. His chief business is to instruct, to make mankind
wiser and better; and in order to this, his care should be to please and entertain the audience
with all the wit and art he is master of. Aristotle and Horace, and all their critics and commentators
all men of wit and sense agree, that this is the end of poetry. But they say, it is their profession
to write for the stage; and that poets must starve, if they will not in this way humour the
audience: the theatre will be as unfrequented as the churches, and the poet and the parson
equally neglected. Let the poet then abandon his profession, and take up some honest lawful
calling, where, joining industry to his great wit, he may soon get above the complaints of
poverty, so common among these ingenious men, and lie under no necessity of prostituting his
wit to any such vile purposes as are here censured. This will-be a course of life more profitable
and honourable to himself, and more useful to others. And there are among these writers some,
who think they might have risen to the highest dignities in other professions, had they employed
their wit in those ways. It is a mighty dishonour and reproach to any man that is capable of
being useful to the world in any liberal and virtuous profession, to lavish out his life and
wit in propagating vice and corruption of manners, and in battering from the stage the strongest
entrenchments and best works of religion and virtue. Whoever makes this his choice, when the
other was in his power, may he go off the stage unpitied, complaining of neglect and poverty,
the just punishments of his irreligion and folly!"

[35]  Mr. Malone conceives, that the Fables were published before the "Satire upon Wit;" but
he had not this evidence of the contrary before him. It is therefore clear, that Dryden endured
a second attack from Blackmore, before making any reply.

[36]  Since Scott wrote, the Collier-Congreve controversy has been the subject of well-known
essays by Lamb, Hazlitt, Leigh Hunt, and Macaulay. Very recently a fresh and excellent account
of Collier's book has appeared in M.A. Beljame's Le Public et les Hommes de Lettres en Angleterre
au xviiième siecle (Paris: Hachette, 1881), a remarkable volume, to which, and to its author,
I owe much.--Ed.

[37] In his apology for "The Tale of a Tub," he points out to the resentment of the clergy,
"those heavy illiterate scribblers, prostitute in their reputations, vicious in their lives,
and ruined in their fortunes, who, to the shame of good sense, as well as piety, are greedily
read, merely upon the strength of bold, false, impious assertions, mixed with unmannerly reflections
on the priesthood." And, after no great interval, he mentions the passage quoted, p. 375 "in
which Dryden, L'Estrange, and some others I shall not name, are levelled at; who, having spent
their lives in faction, and apostasies, and all manner of vice, pretended to be sufferers for
loyalty and religion. So Dryden tells us, in one of his prefaces, of his merits and sufferings,
and thanks God that he possesses his soul in patience. In other places he talks at the same rate."

[38] Vol. xviii.

 Tom Brown makes the charge more directly. "But, prithee, why so severe
always on the priesthood, Mr. Bayes? What have they merited to pull down
your indignation? I thought the ridiculing men of that character upon
the stage, was by this time a topic as much worn out with you, as love
and honour in the play, or good fulsome flattery in the dedication. But
you, I find, still continue your old humour, to date from the year of
Hegira, the loss of Eton, or since orders were refused you. Whatever
hangs out, either black or green colours is presently your prize: and
you would, by your good will, be as mortifying a vexation to the whole
tribe, as an unbegetting year, a concatenation of briefs, or a voracious
visitor; so that I am of opinion, you had much better have written in
your title-page,

                           Manet alta mente repostum
  Judicium Cleri, spretaeque injuria Musoe."

The same reproach is urged by Settle. See vol. ix.

[40] Vol. xviii. [The Diary had not been deciphered when Scott wrote. --ED.]

[41] There was, to be sure, in the provoking scruples of that rigid sect, something peculiarly
tempting to a satirist. How is it possible to forgive Baxter, for the affectation with which
he records the enormities of his childhood?

"Though my conscience," says he, "would trouble me when I sinned, yet divers sins I was addicted
to, and oft committed against my conscience, which, for the warning of others, I will here
confess to my shame. I was much addicted to the excessive gluttonous eating of apples and pears,
which I think laid the foundation of the imbecility and flatulency of my stomach, which caused
the bodily calamities of my life. To this end, and to concur with naughty boys that gloried
in evil, I have oft gone into other men's orchards, and stolen the fruit, when I had enough
at home." There are six other retractions of similar enormities, when he concludes: "These
were my sins in my childhood, as to which, conscience troubled me for a great while before
they were overcome." Baxter was a pious and worthy man; but can any one read this confession
without thinking of Tartuffe, who subjected himself to penance for killing a flea, with too
much anger?

[42] See vol. xviii. Mr. Malone thinks tradition has confounded a present made to the poet
himself probably of £100, with a legacy bequeathed to his son Charles, which last did amount
to £500, but which Charles lived not to receive.

[43] She is distinguished for beauty and virtue, by the author of "The Court at Kensington."
1699-1700.

  "So Ormond's graceful mien attracts all eyes,
  And nature needs not ask from art supplies;
  An heir of grandeur shines through every part,
  And in her beauteous form is placed the noblest heart:
  In vain mankind adore, unless she were
  By Heaven made less virtuous, or less fair."

[44] Gildon, in his "Comparison between the Stages."--"Nay then," says the whole party at Drury-lane,
"we'll even put 'The Pilgrim' upon him." "Ay, 'faith, so we will," says Dryden: "and if you'll
let my son have the profits of the third night, I'll give you a Secular Masque." "Done," says
the House; and so the bargain was struck.

[45] i.e. Upon the 25th March 1700; it being supposed (as by many in our own time) that the
century was concluded so soon as the hundredth year commenced; as if a play was ended at the
beginning of the fifth act.

[46] It was again set by Dr. Boyce, and in 1749 performed in the Drury-lane theatre, with great
success.

[47] By a letter to Mrs. Steward, dated the 11th April 1700, it appears they were then only
in his contemplation, and the poet died upon the first of the succeeding month. Vol. xviii.

[48]
  "Quick Maurus, though he never took degrees
  In either of our universities,
  Yet to be shown by Rome kind wit he looks,
  Because he played the fool, and writ three books.
  But if he would be worth a poet's pen,
  He must be more a fool, and write again:
  For all the former fustian stuff he wrote
  Was dead-born doggrel, or is quite forgot;
  His man of Uz, stript of his Hebrew robe,
  Is just the proverb, and 'As poor as Job.'
  One would have thought he could no longer jog;
  But Arthur was a level, Job's a bog.
  There though he crept, yet still he kept in sight;
  But here he founders in, and sinks downright.
  Had he prepared us, and been dull by rule,
  Tobit had first been turned to ridicule;
  But our bold Briton, without fear or awe,
  O'erleaps at once the whole Apocrypha;
  Invades the Psalms with rhymes, and leaves no room
  For any Vandal Hopkins yet to come.
  But when, if, after all, this godly gear
  Is not so senseless as it would appear,
  Our mountebank has laid a deeper train;
  His cant, like Merry Andrew's noble vein,
  Cat-calls the sects to draw them in again.
  At leisure hours in epic song he deals,
  Writes to the rumbling of his coach's wheels;
  Prescribes in haste, and seldom kills by rule,
  But rides triumphant between stool and stool.
  Well, let him go,--'tis yet too early day
  To get himself a place in farce or play;
  We know not by what name we should arraign him,
  For no one category can contain him.
  A pedant,--canting preacher,--and a quack,
  Are load enough to break an ass's back.
  At last, grown wanton, he presumed to write,
  Traduced two kings, their kindness to requite;
  One made the doctor, and one dubbed the knight."

[49] One of these well-meaning persons insulted the ashes of Dryden while they were still warm,
in "An Epistle to Sir Richard Blackmore, occasioned by the New Session of the Poets." Marked
by Mr. Luttrell, 1st November 1700.

  "His mighty Dryden to the shades is gone,
  And Congreve leaves successor of his throne:
  Though long before his final exit hence,
  He was himself an abdicated Prince;
  Disrobed of all regalities of state,
  Drawn by a hind and panther from his seat.
  Heir to his plays, his fables, and his tales,
  Congreve is the poetic prince of Wales;
  Not at St. Germains, but at Will's, his court,
  Whither the subjects of his dad resort;
  Where plots are hatched, and councils yet unknown,
  How young Ascanius may ascend the throne,
  That in despite of all the Muses' laws,
  He may revenge his injured father's cause,
  Go, nauseous rhymers, into darkness go,
  And view your monarch in the shades below,
  Who takes not now from Helicon his drink,
  But sips from Styx a liquor black as ink;
  Like Sisyphus a restless stone he turns,
  And in a pile of his own labours burns;
  Whose curling flames most ghastly fiends do raise,
  Supplied with fuel from his impious plays;
  And when he fain would puff away the flame,
  One stops his mouth with bawdy Limberham;
  There, to augment the terrors of the place,
  His Hind and Panther stare him in the face;
  They grin like devils at the cursed toad,
  Who made [them] draw on earth so vile a load.
  Could some infernal painter draw the sight,
  And once transmit it to the realms of light,
  It might our poets from their sins affright;
  Or could they hear, how there the sons of verse
  In dismal yells their tortures do express;
  How scorched with ballads on the Stygian shore,
  They horrors in a dismal chorus roar;
  Or see how the laureate does his grandeur bear,
  Crowned with a wreath of flaming sulphur there.
  This, sir, 's your fate, cursed critics you oppose,
  The most tyrannical and cruel foes;
  Dryden, their huntsman dead, no more he wounds,
  But now you must engage his pack of hounds."

[50] According to Ward, his expressions were, "that he was an old man, and had not long to
live by course of nature, and therefore did not care to part with one limb, at such an age,
to preserve an uncomfortable life on the rest."--London Spy, Part xviii.

[51] "I come now from Mr. Dryden's funeral, where we had an Ode in Horace sung, instead of
David's Psalms; whence you may find, that we don't think a poet worth Christian burial. The
pomp of the ceremony was a kind of rhapsody, and fitter, I think, for Hudibras, than him; because
the cavalcade was mostly burlesque: but he was an extraordinary man, and buried after an extraordinary
fashion; for I do believe there was never such another burial seen. The oration, indeed, was
great and ingenious, worthy the subject, and like the author; whose prescriptions can restore
the living, and his pen embalm the dead. And so much for Mr. Dryden; whose burial was the same
as his life,--variety, and not of a piece:-- the quality and mob, farce and heroics; the sublime
and ridicule mixed in a piece;--great Cleopatra in a hackney coach."

[52] Those who wish to peruse this memorable romance may find it in vol. xviii. It was first
published in Wilson's "Life of Congreve," 1730. Mr. Malone has successfully shown that it is
false in almost all its parts; for, independently of the extreme improbability of the whole
story, it is clear, from Ward's account, written at the time, that Lord Jefferies, who it is
pretended interrupted the funeral, did, in fact, largely contribute to it. This also appears
from a paragraph, in a letter from Doctor afterwards Bishop Tanner, dated May 6th, 1700, and
thus given by Mr. Malone:--"Mr. Dryden died a papist, if at all a Christian. Mr. Montague had
given orders to bury him; but some lords (my Lord Dorset, Jefferies, etc.), thinking it would
not be splendid enough, ordered him to be carried to Russel's: there he was embalmed; and now
lies in state at the Physicians' College, and is to be buried with Chaucer, Cowley, etc., at
Westminster Abbey, on Monday next."--MSS. Ballard. in Bibl. Bodl. vol. iv. p. 29.

[53] The following lines are given by Mr. Malone as a specimen:--

  "Before the hearse the mourning hautboys go,
  And screech a dismal sound of grief and woe:
  More dismal notes from bog-trotters may fall,
  More dismal plaints at Irish funeral;
  But no such floods of tears e'er stopped our tide,
  Since Charles, the martyr and the monarch, died.
  The decency and order first describe,
  Without regard to either sex or tribe.
  The sable coaches led the dismal van,
  But by their side, I think, few footmen ran;
  Nor needed these; the rabble fill the streets,
  And mob with mob in great disorder meets.
  See next the coaches, how they are accouter'd,
  Both in the inside, eke and on the outward:
  One p----y spark, one sound as any roach,
  One poet and two fiddlers in a coach:
  The playhouse drab, that beats the beggar's bush,
         *       *       *       *       *
  By everybody kissed, good truth,--but such is
  Now her good fate, to ride with mistress Duchess.
  Was e'er immortal poet thus buffooned!
  In a long line of coaches thus lampooned!"

[54] 

[55] 

[56] From "Epigrams on the Paintings of the most eminent Masters," by J.E. (John Elsum), Esq.,
8vo, 1700, Mr. Malone gives the following lines:--

  The Effigies of Mr. Dryden, by Closterman,
  Epig. clxiv.

  "A sleepy eye he shows, and no sweet feature,
  Yet was indeed a favourite of nature:
  Endowed and graced with an exalted mind,
  With store of wit, and that of every kind.
  Juvenal's tartness, Horace's sweet air,
  With Virgil's force, in him concentered were.
  But though the painter's art can never show it,
  That his exemplar was so great a poet,
  Yet are the lines and tints so subtly wrought,
  You may perceive he was a man of thought.
  Closterman, 'tis confessed, has drawn him well,
  But short of Absalom and Achitophel."

[57] 

[58] A correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine, in 1745, already quoted, says of him as a
personal acquaintance: "Posterity is absolutely mistaken as to that great man: though forced
to be a satirist, he was the mildest creature breathing, and the readiest to help the young
and deserving. Though his comedies are horribly full of double entendre, yet 'twas owing to
a false complaisance. He was, in company, the modestest man that ever conversed."

[59] Letter to the author of "Reflections Historical and Political." 4to, 1732.

[60] See vol. xi.; vol. xviii. From the poem in the passage last quoted, it seems that the
original sign of Will's Coffee-house had been a cow. It was changed however, to a rose, in
Dryden's time. This wit's coffeehouse was situated at the end of Bow-street, on the north side
of Russel-street, and frequented by all who made any pretence to literature, or criticism.
Their company, it would seem, was attended with more honour than profit; for Dennis describes
William Envin, or Urwin, who kept the house, as taking refuge in White-friars, then a place
of asylum, to escape the clutches of his creditors. "For since the law," says the critic, "thought
it just to put Will out of its protection, Will thought it but prudent to put himself out of
its power."

[61] See Appendix, vol. xviii.; vol. xi.

[62] The Dean of Peterborough. "I was," says he, "about seventeen, when I first came to town;
an odd-looking boy, with short rough hair, and that sort of awkwardness which one always brings
out of the country with one: however, in spite of my bashfulness and appearance, I used now
and then to thrust myself into Will's, to have the pleasure of seeing the most celebrated wits
of that time, who used to resort thither. The second time that ever I was there, Mr. Dryden
was speaking of his own things, as he frequently did, especially of such as had been lately
published. If anything of mine is good (says he), 'tis my Mac-Flecknoe; and I value myself
the more on it, because it is the first piece of ridicule written in heroics.' Lockier overhearing
this, plucked up his spirit so far, as to say, in a voice just loud enough to be heard, that
Mac-Flecknoe was a very fine poem, but that he had not imagined it to be the first that ever
was wrote that way. On this Dryden turned short upon him, as surprised at his interposing;
asked him how long he had been a dealer in poetry; and added, with a smile,--'But pray, sir,
what is it, that you did imagine to have been writ so before?' Lockier named Boileau's Lutrin,
and Tassoni's Secchia Rapita; which he had read, and knew Dryden had borrowed some strokes
from each. ''Tis true,' says Dryden;--'I had forgot them.' A little after, Dryden went out,
and in going spoke to Lockier again, and desired him to come to him the next day. Lockier was
highly delighted with the invitation, and was well acquainted with him as long as he lived."--MALONE,
vol. i. p. 481.

[63] "I have often heard," says Mr. George Russell, "that Mr. Dryden, dissatisfied and envious
at the reputation Creech obtained by his translation of Lucretius, purposely advised him to
undertake Horace, to which he knew him unequal, that he might by his ill performance lose the
fame he had acquired. Mr. Southerne, author of 'Oroonoko,' set me right as to the conduct of
Mr. Dryden in this affair; affirming that, being one evening at Mr. Dryden's lodgings, in company
with Mr. Creech, and some other ingenious men, Mr. Creech told the company of his design to
translate Horace; from which Mr. Dryden, with many arguments, dissuaded him, as an attempt
which his genius was not adapted to, and which would risk his losing the good opinion the world
had of him, by his successful translation of Lucretius. I thought it proper to acquaint you
with this circumstance, since it rescues the fame of one of our greatest poets from the imputation
of envy and malevolence." See also, upon this subject, a note in vol. viii. Yet Jacob Tonson
told Spence, "that Dryden would compliment Crowne when a play of his failed, but was cold to
him if he met with success. He used sometimes to say, that Crowne had some genius; but then
he always added, that his father and Crowne's mother were very well acquainted."--MALONE, vol.
i. p. 500.

[64] His conversation is thus characterised by a contemporary writer:

"O, Sir, there's a medium in all things. Silence and chat are distant enough, to have a convenient
discourse come between them; and thus far I agree with you, that the company of the author
of 'Absalom and Achitophel' is more valuable, though not so talkative, than that of the modern
men of banter; for what he says is like what he writes, much to the purpose, and full of mighty
sense; and if the town were for anything desirable, it were for the conversation of him, and
one or two more of the same character."--The Humours and Conversation of the Town exposed,
in two Dialogues, 1693, p. 73

[65] [This story is probably as old as the first married pair of whom the husband was studious.
It certainly appears without names in the Historiettes of Tallemant des Réaux, most of which
were written five years before Dryden's marriage.--ED]

[66] "When Dryden, our first great master of verse and harmony, brought his play of 'Amphitryon'
to the stage, I heard him give it his first reading to the actors; in which, though it is true
he delivered the plain sense of every period, yet the whole was in so cold, so flat, and unaffecting
a manner, that I am afraid of not being believed, when I affirm it."--Cibber's Apology, 4to.

[67] 

[68] Vol. xviii.

[69] "I find (says Gildon) Mr. Bayes, the younger [Rowe], has two qualities, like Mr. Bayes,
the elder; his admiration of some odd books, as 'Reynard the Fox,' and the old ballads of 'Jane
Shore,' etc."-- Remarks on Mr. Rome's Plays. "Reynard the Fox" is also mentioned in "The Town
and Country Mouse," as a favourite book of Dryden. And Addison, in the 85th number of the Spectator,
informs us, that Dorset and Dryden delighted in perusing the collection of old ballads which
the latter possessed.

[70] Vol. xviii.

[71] It is now No. 43.

[72] Vol. vii.

[73] [The unfavourable accounts of Lady Elizabeth's temper after marriage are not much better
founded than those of her maidenly or unmaidenly conduct before it. Dryden's supposed to almost
all his contemporaries in belles-lettres. There is no sign in his letters of any conjugal unhappiness,
and Malone's "respectable authority" is family gossip a century after date.--ED.]

[74] 

[75] These are--1. Latin verses prefixed to Lord Roscommon's Essay on Translated Verse. 2.
Latin verses on the Death of Charles II., published in the Cambridge collection of Elegies
on that occasion. 3. A poem in the same language, upon Lord Arlington's Gardens, published
in the Second Miscellany. 4. A translation of the seventh Satire of Juvenal, mentioned in the
text. 5. An English poem, on the Happiness of a Retired Life. 6. A pretty song, printed by
Mr. Malone, to which Charles Dryden also composed music.

[76] The prologue was spoken by the ghosts of Shakespeare and Dryden; from which Mr. Malone
selects the following curious quotation:--"Mr. Bevil Higgons, the writer of it, ventured to
make the representative of our great dramatic poet speak these lines!--

  "These scenes in their rough native dress were mine;
  But now, improved, with nobler lustre shine
  The first rude sketches Shakespeare's pencil drew,
  But all the shining master strokes are new.
  This play, ye critics, shall your fury stand,
  Adorned and rescued by a faultless hand."

To which our author replies,

  "I long endeavoured to support the stage,
  With the faint copies of thy nobler rage,
  But toiled in vain for an ungenerous age.
  They starved me living, nay, denied me fame,
  And scarce, now dead, do justice to my name.
  Would you repent? Be to my ashes kind;
  Indulge the pledges I have left behind."--MALONE.

[77] 

[78] Mr. Malone says, "Edward Dryden, the eldest son of the last Sir Erasmus Dryden, left by
his wife, Elizabeth Allen, who died in London in 1761, five sons; the youngest of whom, Bevil,
was father of the present Lady Dryden. Sir John, the eldest, survived all his brothers, and
died without issue, at Canons-Ashby, March 20, 1770." [The subsequent history of the family
is as follows:--Elizabeth Dryden, the "present Lady Dryden" referred to by Scott, married Mr.
John Turner, to whom she carried the estates. Mr. Turner assumed the name and arms of Dryden
in 1791, and was created a baronet four years later.

If Dryden received but a slender share of the gifts of fortune, it was amply made up to him
in reputation. Even while a poet militant upon earth, he received no ordinary portion of that
applause, which is too often reserved for the "dull cold ear of death." He combated, it is
true, but he conquered; and, in despite of faction, civil and religious, of penury, and the
contempt which follows it, of degrading patronage, and rejected solicitation, from 1666 to
the year of his death, the name of Dryden was first in English literature. Nor was his fame
limited to Britain. Of the French literati, although Boileau,[1] with unworthy affectation,
when he heard of the honours paid to the poet's remains, pretended ignorance even of his name,
yet Rapin, the famous critic, learned the English language on purpose to read the works of
Dryden.[2] Sir John Shadwell, the son of our author's ancient adversary, bore an honourable
and manly testimony to the general regret among the men of letters at Paris for the death of
Dryden. "The men of letters here lament the loss of Mr. Dryden very much. The honours paid
to him have done our countrymen no small service; for, next to having so considerable a man
of our own growth, 'tis a reputation to have known how to value him; as patrons very often
pass for wits, by esteeming those that are so." And from another authority we learn, that the
engraved copies of Dryden's portrait were bought up with avidity on the Continent.[3]

But it was in England where the loss of Dryden was chiefly to be felt. It is seldom the extent
of such a deprivation is understood, till it has taken place; as the size of an object is best
estimated, when we see the space void which it had long occupied. The men of literature, starting
as it were from a dream, began to heap commemorations, panegyrics, and elegies: the great were
as much astonished at their own neglect of such an object of bounty, as if the same had never
been practised before; and expressed as much compunction, as it were never to occur again.
The poets were not silent; but their strains only evinced their woful degeneracy from him whom
they mourned. Henry Playford, a publisher of music, collected their effusions into a compilation,
entitled, "Luctus Britannici, or the Tears of the British Muses, for the death of John Dryden;"
which he published about two months after Dryden's death.[4] Nine ladies, assuming each the
character of a Muse, and clubbing a funeral ode, or elegy, produced "The Nine Muses;" of which
very rare (and very worthless) collection, I have given a short account in the Appendix; where
the reader will also find an ode on the same subject, by Oldys, which may serve for ample specimen
of the poetical lamentations over Dryden.

The more costly, though equally unsubstantial, honour of a monument, was projected by Montague;
and loud were the acclamations of the poets on his generous forgiveness of past discords with
Dryden, and the munificence of this universal patron. But Montague never accomplished his purpose,
if he seriously entertained it. Pelham, Duke of Newcastle, announced the same intention; received
the panegyric of Congreve for having done so; and having thus pocketed the applause, proceeded
no further than Montague had done. At length Pope, in some lines which were rather an epitaph
on Dryden, who lay in the vicinity, than on Rowe, over whose tomb they were to be placed,[5]
roused Dryden's original patron, Sheffield, formerly Earl of Mulgrave, and now Duke of Buckingham,
to erect over the grave of his friend the present simple monument which distinguishes it. The
inscription was comprised in the following words:--J. Dryden. Natus 1632. Mortuus I Maii 1700.
Joannes Sheffield, Duxx Buckinghamiensis posuit, 1720.[6]

In the school of reformed English poetry, of which Dryden must be acknowledged as the founder,
there soon arose disciples not unwilling to be considered as the rivals of their muster. Addison
had his partisans, who were desirous to hold him up in this point of view; and he himself is
said to have taken pleasure, with the assistance of Steele, to depreciate Dryden, whose fame
was defended by Pope and Congreve. No serious invasion of Dryden's pre-eminence can be said,
however, to have taken place, till Pope himself, refining upon that structure of versification
which our author had first introduced, and attending with sedulous diligence to improve every
passage to the highest pitch of point and harmony, exhibited a new style of composition, and
claimed at least to share with Dryden the sovereignty of Parnassus. I will not attempt to concentrate
what Johnson has said upon this interesting comparison:--

"In acquired knowledge, the superiority must be allowed to Dryden, whose education was more
scholastic, and who, before he became an author, had been allowed more time for study, with
better means of information. His mind has a larger range, and he collects his images and illustrations
from a more extensive circumference of science.

"Poetry was not the sole praise of either; for both excelled likewise in prose; but Pope did
not borrow his prose from his predecessor.

"Of genius, that power which constitutes a poet; that quality, without which judgment is cold,
and knowledge is inert; that energy, which collects, combines, amplifies, and animates; the
superiority must, with some hesitation, be allowed to Dryden. It is not to be inferred, that
of this poetical vigour Pope had only a little, because Dryden had more; for every other writer,
since Milton, must give place to Pope: and even of Dryden it must be said, that if he has brighter
paragraphs, he has not better poems. Dryden's performances were always hasty, either excited
by some external occasion, or extorted by domestic necessity; he composed without consideration,
and published without correction. What his mind could supply at call, or gather in one excursion,
was all that he sought, and all that he gave. The dilatory caution of Pope enabled him to condense
his sentiments, to multiply his images, and to accumulate all that study might produce, or
chance might supply. It was then obvious, that though Pope's felicity of expression, his beautiful
polish of sentiment, and the occasional brilliancy of his wit, were not easily imitated, yet
many authors, by dint of a good ear, and a fluent expression, learned to command the unaltered
sweetness of his melody, which, like a favourite tune, when descended to hawkers and ballad-singers,
became disgusting as it became common. The admirers of poetry then reverted to the brave negligence
of Dryden's versification, as, to use Johnson's simile, the eye, fatigued with the uniformity
of a lawn, seeks variety in the uncultivated glade or swelling mountain. The preference for
which Dennis, asserting the cause of Dryden, had raved and thundered in vain, began, by degrees,
to be assigned to the elder bard; and many a poet sheltered his harsh verses and inequalities
under an assertion that he belonged to the school of Dryden. But imitation always approaches
to caricature; and the powers of Churchill have been unable to protect him from the oblivion
into which his poems are daily sinking, owing to the ephemeral interest of political subjects,
and his indolent negligence of severe study and regularity. To imitate Dryden, it were well
to study his merits, without venturing to adopt the negligences and harshness, which the hurry
of his composition, and the comparative rudeness of his age, rendered in him excusable. At
least, those who venture to sink as low, should be confident of the power of soaring as high;
for surely it is a rash attempt to dive, unless in one conscious of ability to swim. While
the beauties of Dryden may be fairly pointed out as an object of emulation, it is the less
pleasing, but not less necessary, duty of his biographer and editor, to notice those deficiencies,
which his high and venerable name may excuse, but cannot render proper objects of applause
or imitation.

So much occasional criticism has been scattered in various places through these volumes, that,
while attempting the consideration of one or two of his distinguishing and pre-eminent compositions,
which have been intentionally reserved to illustrate a few pages of general criticism, I feel
myself free from the difficult, and almost contradictory task, of drawing my maxims and examples
from the extended course of his literary career.

My present task is limited to deducing his poetic character from those works which he formed
on his last and most approved model. The general tone of his genius, however, influenced the
whole course of his publications; and upon that, however his taste, a few preliminary notices
may not be misplaced.

The distinguishing characteristic of Dryden's genius seems to have been the power of reasoning,
and of expressing the result in appropriate language.[8] This may seem slender praise; yet
these were the talents that led Bacon into the recesses of philosophy, and conducted Newton
to the cabinet of nature. The prose works of Dryden bear repeated evidence to his philosophical
powers. His philosophy was not indeed of a formed and systematic character; for he is often
contented to leave the path of argument which must have conducted him to the fountain of truth,
and to resort with indolence or indifference to the leaky cisterns which had been hewn out
by former critics. But where his pride or his taste are interested, he shows evidently, that
it was not want of the power of systematising, but of the time and patience necessary to form
a system, which occasions the discrepancy that we often notice in his critical and philological
disquisitions. This power of ratiocination, of investigating, discovering, and appreciating
that which is really excellent, if accompanied with the necessary command of fanciful illustration,
and elegant expression, is the most interesting quality which can be possessed by a poet. It
must indeed have a share in the composition of everything that is truly estimable in the fine
arts, as well as in philosophy. Nothing is so easily attained as the power of presenting the
extrinsic qualities of fine painting, fine music, or fine poetry; the beauty of colour and
outline, the combination of notes, the melody of versification, may be imitated by artists
of mediocrity; and many will view, hear, or peruse their performances, without being able positively
to discover why they should not, since composed according to all the rules, afford pleasure
equal to those of Raphael, Handel, or Dryden. The deficiency lies in the vivifying spirit,
which, like alcohol, may be reduced to the same principle in all, though it assumes such varied
qualities from the mode in which it is exerted or combined. Of this power of intellect, Dryden
seems to have possessed almost an exuberant share, combined, as usual, with the faculty of
correcting his own conceptions, by observing human nature, the practical and experimental philosophy
as well of poetry as of ethics or physics. The early habits of Dryden's education and poetical
studies gave his researches somewhat too much of a metaphysical character; and it was a consequence
of his mental acuteness, that his dramatic personages often philosophised or reasoned, when
they ought only to have felt. The more lofty, the fiercer, the more ambitious feelings, seem
also to have been his favourite studies. Perhaps the analytical mode in which he exercised
his studies of human life tended to confine his observation to the more energetic feelings
of pride, anger, ambition, and other high-toned passions. He that mixes in public life must
see enough of these stormy convulsions; but the finer and more imperceptible operations of
love, in its sentimental modifications, if the heart of the author does not supply an example
from its own feelings, cannot easily be studied at the expense of others. Dryden's bosom, it
must be owned, seems to have afforded him no such means of information; the licence of his
age, and perhaps the advanced period at which he commenced his literary career, had probably
armed him against this more exalted strain of passion. The love of the senses he has in many
places expressed, in as forcible and dignified colouring as the subject could admit; but of
a mere moral and sentimental passion he seems to have had little idea, since he frequently
substitutes in its place the absurd, unnatural, and fictitious refinements of romance. In short,
his love is always in indecorous nakedness, or sheathed in the stiff panoply of chivalry. But
if Dryden fails in expressing the milder and more tender passions, not only did the stronger
feelings of the heart, in all its dark or violent workings, but the face of natural objects,
and their operation upon the human mind, pass promptly in review at his command. External pictures,
and their corresponding influence on the spectator, are equally ready at his summons; and though
his poetry, from the nature of his subjects, is in general rather ethic and didactic, than
narrative of composition, than his figures and his landscapes are presented to the mind with
the same vivacity as the flow of his reasoning, or the acute metaphysical discrimination of
his characters.

