For that we have still to wait a little while. The new order may have gone far towards shaping
itself, but just as in that sort of lantern show that used to be known in the village as the
"Dissolving Views," the scene that is going remains upon the mind, traceable and evident, and
the newer picture is yet enigmatical long after the lines that are to replace those former
ones have grown bright and strong, so that the new England of our children's children is still
a riddle to me. The ideas of democracy, of equality, and above all of promiscuous fraternity
have certainly never really entered into the English mind. But what IS coming into it? All
this book, I hope, will bear a little on that. Our people never formulates; it keeps words
for jests and ironies. In the meanwhile the old shapes, the old attitudes remain, subtly changed
and changing still, sheltering strange tenants. Bladesover House is now let furnished to Sir
Reuben Lichtenstein, and has been since old Lady Drew died; it was my odd experience to visit
there, in the house of which my mother had been housekeeper, when my uncle was at the climax
of Tono-Bungay. It was curious to notice then the little differences that had come to things
with this substitution. To borrow an image from my mineralogical days, these Jews were not
so much a new British gentry as "pseudomorphous" after the gentry. They are a very clever people,
the Jews, but not clever enough to suppress their cleverness. I wished I could have gone downstairs
to savour the tone of the pantry. It would have been very different I know. Hawksnest, over
beyond, I noted, had its pseudomorph too; a newspaper proprietor of the type that hustles along
with stolen ideas from one loud sink-or-swim enterprise to another, had bought the place outright;
Redgrave was in the hands of brewers.

But the people in the villages, so far as I could detect, saw no difference in their world.
Two little girls bobbed and an old labourer touched his hat convulsively as I walked through
the village. He still thought he knew his place--and mine. I did not know him, but I would
have liked dearly to have asked him if he remembered my mother, if either my uncle or old Lichtenstein
had been man enough to stand being given away like that.

In that English countryside of my boyhood every human being had a "place." It belonged to you
from your birth like the colour of your eyes, it was inextricably your destiny. Above you were
your betters, below you were your inferiors, and there were even an unstable questionable few,
cases so disputable that you might for the rough purposes of every day at least, regard them
as your equals. Head and centre of our system was Lady Drew, her "leddyship," shrivelled, garrulous,
with a wonderful memory for genealogies and very, very old, and beside her and nearly as old,
Miss Somerville, her cousin and companion. These two old souls lived like dried-up kernels
in the great shell of Bladesover House, the shell that had once been gaily full of fops, of
fine ladies in powder and patches and courtly gentlemen with swords; and when there was no
company they spent whole days in the corner parlour just over the housekeeper's room, between
reading and slumber and caressing their two pet dogs. When I was a boy I used always to think
of these two poor old creatures as superior beings living, like God, somewhere through the
ceiling. Occasionally they bumped about a bit and one even heard them overhead, which gave
them a greater effect of reality without mitigating their vertical predominance. Sometimes
too I saw them. Of course if I came upon them in the park or in the shrubbery (where I was
a trespasser) I hid or fled in pious horror, but I was upon due occasion taken into the Presence
by request. I remember her "leddyship" then as a thing of black silks and a golden chain, a
quavering injunction to me to be a good boy, a very shrunken loose-skinned face and neck, and
a ropy hand that trembled a halfcrown into mine. Miss Somerville hovered behind, a paler thing
of broken lavender and white and black, with screwed up, sandy-lashed eyes. Her hair was yellow
and her colour bright, and when we sat in the housekeeper's room of a winter's night warming
our toes and sipping elder wine, her maid would tell us the simple secrets of that belated
flush.... After my fight with young Garvell I was of course banished, and I never saw those
poor old painted goddesses again.

Then there came and went on these floors over our respectful heads, the Company; people I rarely
saw, but whose tricks and manners were imitated and discussed by their maids and valets in
the housekeeper's room and the steward's room--so that I had them through a medium at second
hand. I gathered that none of the company were really Lady Drew's equals, they were greater
and lesser after the manner of all things in our world. Once I remember there was a Prince,
with a real live gentleman in attendance, and that was a little above our customary levels
and excited us all, and perhaps raised our expectations unduly. Afterwards, Rabbits, the butler,
came into my mother's room downstairs, red with indignation and with tears in his eyes. "Look
at that!" gasped Rabbits. My mother was speechless with horror. That was a sovereign, a mere
sovereign, such as you might get from any commoner!

After Company, I remember, came anxious days, for the poor old women upstairs were left tired
and cross and vindictive, and in a state of physical and emotional indigestion after their
social efforts....

On the lowest fringe of these real Olympians hung the vicarage people, and next to them came
those ambiguous beings who are neither quality nor subjects. The vicarage people certainly
hold a place by themselves in the typical English scheme; nothing is more remarkable than the
progress the Church has made--socially--in the last two hundred years. In the early eighteenth
century the vicar was rather under than over the house-steward, and was deemed a fitting match
for the housekeeper or any not too morally discredited discard. The eighteenth century literature
is full of his complaints that he might not remain at table to share the pie. He rose above
these indignities because of the abundance of younger sons. When I meet the large assumptions
of the contemporary cleric, I am apt to think of these things. It is curious to note that to-day
that down-trodden, organ-playing creature, the Church of England village Schoolmaster, holds
much the same position as the seventeenth century parson. The doctor in Bladesover ranked below
the vicar but above the "vet," artists and summer visitors squeezed in above or below this
point according to their appearance and expenditure, and then in a carefully arranged scale
came the tenantry, the butler and housekeeper, the village shopkeeper, the head keeper, the
cook, the publican, the second keeper, the blacksmith (whose status was complicated by his
daughter keeping the post-office--and a fine hash she used to make of telegrams too!) the village
shopkeeper's eldest son, the first footman, younger sons of the village shopkeeper, his first
assistant, and so forth.

All these conceptions and applications of a universal precedence and much else I drank in at
Bladesover, as I listened to the talk of valets, ladies'-maids, Rabbits the butler and my mother
in the much-cupboarded, white-painted, chintz-brightened housekeeper's room where the upper
servants assembled, or of footmen and Rabbits and estate men of all sorts among the green baize
and Windsor chairs of the pantry--where Rabbits, being above the law, sold beer without a license
or any compunction--or of housemaids and still-room maids in the bleak, matting-carpeted still-room
or of the cook and her kitchen maids and casual friends among the bright copper and hot glow
of the kitchens.

Of course their own ranks and places came by implication to these people, and it was with the
ranks and places of the Olympians that the talk mainly concerned itself. There was an old peerage
and a Crockford together with the books of recipes, the Whitaker's Almanack, the Old Moore's
Almanack, and the eighteenth century dictionary, on the little dresser that broke the cupboards
on one side of my mother's room; there was another peerage, with the covers off, in the pantry;
there was a new peerage in the billiard-room, and I seem to remember another in the anomalous
apartment that held the upper servants' bagatelle board and in which, after the Hall dinner,
they partook of the luxury of sweets. And if you had asked any of those upper servants how
such and such a Prince of Battenberg was related to, let us say, Mr. Cunninghame Graham or
the Duke of Argyle, you would have been told upon the nail. As a boy, I heard a great deal
of that sort of thing, and if to this day I am still a little vague about courtesy titles and
the exact application of honorifics, it is, I can assure you, because I hardened my heart,
and not from any lack of adequate opportunity of mastering these succulent particulars.

Dominating all these memories is the figure of my mother--my mother who did not love me because
I grew liker my father every day--and who knew with inflexible decision her place and the place
of every one in the world--except the place that concealed my father--and in some details mine.
Subtle points were put to her. I can see and hear her saying now, "No, Miss Fison, peers of
England go in before peers of the United Kingdom, and he is merely a peer of the United Kingdom."
She had much exercise in placing people's servants about her tea-table, where the etiquette
was very strict. I wonder sometimes if the etiquette of housekeepers' rooms is as strict to-day,
and what my mother would have made of a chauffeur....

On the whole I am glad that I saw so much as I did of Bladesover--if for no other reason than
because seeing it when I did, quite naively, believing in it thoroughly, and then coming to
analyse it, has enabled me to understand much that would be absolutely incomprehensible in
the structure of English society. Bladesover is, I am convinced, the clue to almost all that
is distinctively British and perplexing to the foreign inquirer in England and the English-speaking
peoples. Grasp firmly that England was all Bladesover two hundred years ago; that it has had
Reform Acts indeed, and such--like changes of formula, but no essential revolution since then;
that all that is modern and different has come in as a thing intruded or as a gloss upon this
predominant formula, either impertinently or apologetically; and you will perceive at once
the reasonableness, the necessity, of that snobbishness which is the distinctive quality of
English thought. Everybody who is not actually in the shadow of a Bladesover is as it were
perpetually seeking after lost orientations. We have never broken with our tradition, never
even symbolically hewed it to pieces, as the French did in quivering fact in the Terror. But
all the organizing ideas have slackened, the old habitual bonds have relaxed or altogether
come undone. And America too, is, as it were, a detached, outlying part of that estate which
has expanded in queer ways. George Washington, Esquire, was of the gentlefolk, and he came
near being a King. It was Plutarch, you know, and nothing intrinsically American that prevented
George Washington being a King....

IV

I hated teatime in the housekeeper's room more than anything else at Bladesover. And more particularly
I hated it when Mrs. Mackridge and Mrs. Booch and Mrs. Latude-Fernay were staying in the house.
They were, all three of them, pensioned-off servants.

Old friends of Lady Drew's had rewarded them posthumously for a prolonged devotion to their
minor comforts, and Mrs. Booch was also trustee for a favourite Skye terrier. Every year Lady
Drew gave them an invitation--a reward and encouragement of virtue with especial reference
to my mother and Miss Fison, the maid. They sat about in black and shiny and flouncey clothing
adorned with gimp and beads, eating great quantities of cake, drinking much tea in a stately
manner and reverberating remarks.

I remember these women as immense. No doubt they were of negotiable size, but I was only a
very little chap and they have assumed nightmare proportions in my mind. They loomed, they
bulged, they impended. Mrs. Mackridge was large and dark; there was a marvel about her head,
inasmuch as she was bald. She wore a dignified cap, and in front of that upon her brow, hair
was PAINTED. I have never seen the like since. She had been maid to the widow of Sir Roderick
Blenderhasset Impey, some sort of governor or such-like portent in the East Indies, and from
her remains--in Mrs. Mackridge--I judge Lady Impey was a very stupendous and crushing creature
indeed. Lady Impey had been of the Juno type, haughty, unapproachable, given to irony and a
caustic wit. Mrs. Mackridge had no wit, but she had acquired the caustic voice and gestures
along with the old satins and trimmings of the great lady. When she told you it was a fine
morning, she seemed also to be telling you you were a fool and a low fool to boot; when she
was spoken to, she had a way of acknowledging your poor tinkle of utterance with a voluminous,
scornful "Haw!" that made you want to burn her alive. She also had a way of saying "Indade!"
with a droop of the eyelids.

Mrs. Booch was a smaller woman, brown haired, with queer little curls on either side of her
face, large blue eyes and a small set of stereotyped remarks that constituted her entire mental
range. Mrs. Latude-Fernay has left, oddly enough, no memory at all except her name and the
effect of a green-grey silk dress, all set with gold and blue buttons. I fancy she was a large
blonde. Then there was Miss Fison, the maid who served both Lady Drew and Miss Somerville,
and at the end of the table opposite my mother, sat Rabbits the butler. Rabbits, for a butler,
was an unassuming man, and at tea he was not as you know butlers, but in a morning coat and
a black tie with blue spots. Still, he was large, with side whiskers, even if his clean-shaven
mouth was weak and little. I sat among these people on a high, hard, early Gregorian chair,
trying to exist, like a feeble seedling amidst great rocks, and my mother sat with an eye upon
me, resolute to suppress the slightest manifestation of vitality. It was hard on me, but perhaps
it was also hard upon these rather over-fed, ageing, pretending people, that my youthful restlessness
and rebellious unbelieving eyes should be thrust in among their dignities.

Tea lasted for nearly three-quarters of an hour, and I sat it out perforce; and day after day
the talk was exactly the same.

"Sugar, Mrs. Mackridge?" my mother used to ask.

"Sugar, Mrs. Latude-Fernay?"

The word sugar would stir the mind of Mrs. Mackridge. "They say," she would begin, issuing
her proclamation--at least half her sentences began "they say"--"sugar is fatt-an-ing, nowadays.
Many of the best people do not take it at all."

"Not with their tea, ma'am," said Rabbits intelligently.

"Not with anything," said Mrs. Mackridge, with an air of crushing repartee, and drank.

"What won't they say next?" said Miss Fison.

"They do say such things!" said Mrs. Booch.

"They say," said Mrs. Mackridge, inflexibly, "the doctors are not recomm-an-ding it now."

My Mother: "No, ma'am?"

Mrs. Mackridge: "No, ma'am."

Then, to the table at large: "Poor Sir Roderick, before he died, consumed great quan-ta-ties
of sugar. I have sometimes fancied it may have hastened his end."

This ended the first skirmish. A certain gloom of manner and a pause was considered due to
the sacred memory of Sir Roderick.

"George," said my mother, "don't kick the chair!"

Then, perhaps, Mrs. Booch would produce a favourite piece from her repertoire. "The evenings
are drawing out nicely," she would say, or if the season was decadent, "How the evenings draw
in!" It was an invaluable remark to her; I do not know how she would have got along without it.

My mother, who sat with her back to the window, would always consider it due to Mrs. Booch
to turn about and regard the evening in the act of elongation or contraction, whichever phase
it might be.

A brisk discussion of how long we were to the longest or shortest day would ensue, and die
away at last exhausted.

Mrs. Mackridge, perhaps, would reopen. She had many intelligent habits; among others she read
the paper--The Morning Post. The other ladies would at times tackle that sheet, but only to
read the births, marriages, and deaths on the front page. It was, of course, the old Morning
Post that cost threepence, not the brisk coruscating young thing of to-day. "They say," she
would open, "that Lord Tweedums is to go to Canada."

"Ah!" said Mr. Rabbits; "dew they?"

"Isn't he," said my mother, "the Earl of Slumgold's cousin?" She knew he was; it was an entirely
irrelevant and unnecessary remark, but still, something to say.

"The same, ma'am," said Mrs. Mackridge. "They say he was extremelay popular in New South Wales.
They looked up to him greatlay. I knew him, ma'am, as a young man. A very nice pleasant young
fella."

Interlude of respect.

"'Is predecessor," said Rabbits, who had acquired from some clerical model a precise emphatic
articulation without acquiring at the same time the aspirates that would have graced it, "got
into trouble at Sydney."

"Haw!" said Mrs. Mackridge, scornfully, "so am tawled."

"'E came to Templemorton after 'e came back, and I remember them talking 'im over after 'e'd
gone again."

"Haw?" said Mrs. Mackridge, interrogatively.

"'Is fuss was quotin' poetry, ma'am. 'E said--what was it 'e said--'They lef' their country
for their country's good,'--which in some way was took to remind them of their being originally
convic's, though now reformed. Every one I 'eard speak, agreed it was takless of 'im."

"Sir Roderick used to say," said Mrs. Mackridge, "that the First Thing,"--here Mrs. Mackridge
paused and looked dreadfully at me--"and the Second Thing"--here she fixed me again--"and the
Third Thing"--now I was released--"needed in a colonial governor is Tact." She became aware
of my doubts again, and added predominantly, "It has always struck me that that was a Singularly
True Remark."

I resolved that if ever I found this polypus of Tact growing up in my soul, I would tear it
out by the roots, throw it forth and stamp on it.

"They're queer people--colonials," said Rabbits, "very queer. When I was at Templemorton I
see something of 'em. Queer fellows, some of 'em. Very respectful of course, free with their
money in a spasammy sort of way, but--Some of 'em, I must confess, make me nervous. They have
an eye on you. They watch you--as you wait. They let themselves appear to be lookin' at you..."

My mother said nothing in that discussion. The word colonies always upset her. She was afraid,
I think, that if she turned her mind in that direction my errant father might suddenly and
shockingly be discovered, no doubt conspicuously bigamic and altogether offensive and revolutionary.
She did not want to rediscover my father at all.

It is curious that when I was a little listening boy I had such an idea of our colonies that
I jeered in my heart at Mrs. Mackridge's colonial ascendancy. These brave emancipated sunburnt
English of the open, I thought, suffer these aristocratic invaders as a quaint anachronism,
but as for being gratified--!

I don't jeer now. I'm not so sure.

V

It is a little difficult to explain why I did not come to do what was the natural thing for
any one in my circumstances to do, and take my world for granted. A certain innate scepticism,
I think, explains it and a certain inaptitude for sympathetic assimilation. My father, I believe,
was a sceptic; my mother was certainly a hard woman.

I was an only child, and to this day I do not know whether my father is living or dead. He
fled my mother's virtues before my distincter memories began. He left no traces in his flight,
and she, in her indignation, destroyed every vestige that she could of him. Never a photograph
nor a scrap of his handwriting have I seen; and it was, I know, only the accepted code of virtue
and discretion that prevented her destroying her marriage certificate and me, and so making
a clean sweep of her matrimonial humiliation. I suppose I must inherit something of the moral
stupidity that would enable her to make a holocaust of every little personal thing she had
of him. There must have been presents made by him as a lover, for example--books with kindly
inscriptions, letters perhaps, a flattened flower, a ring, or such-like gage. She kept her
wedding-ring, of course, but all the others she destroyed. She never told me his christian
name or indeed spoke a word to me of him; though at times I came near daring to ask her: add
what I have of him--it isn't much--I got from his brother, my hero, my uncle Ponderevo. She
wore her ring; her marriage certificate she kept in a sealed envelope in the very bottom of
her largest trunk, and me she sustained at a private school among the Kentish hills. You must
not think I was always at Bladesover--even in my holidays. If at the time these came round,
Lady Drew was vexed by recent Company, or for any other reason wished to take it out of my
mother, then she used to ignore the customary reminder my mother gave her, and I "stayed on"
at the school.

But such occasions were rare, and I suppose that between ten and fourteen I averaged fifty
days a year at Bladesover.

Don't imagine I deny that was a fine thing for me. Bladesover, in absorbing the whole countryside,
had not altogether missed greatness. The Bladesover system has at least done one good thing
for England, it has abolished the peasant habit of mind. If many of us still live and breathe
pantry and housekeeper's room, we are quit of the dream of living by economising parasitically
on hens and pigs.... About that park there were some elements of a liberal education; there
was a great space of greensward not given over to manure and food grubbing; there was mystery,
there was matter for the imagination. It was still a park of deer. I saw something of the life
of these dappled creatures, heard the belling of stags, came upon young fawns among the bracken,
found bones, skulls, and antlers in lonely places. There were corners that gave a gleam of
meaning to the word forest, glimpses of unstudied natural splendour. There was a slope of bluebells
in the broken sunlight under the newly green beeches in the west wood that is now precious
sapphire in my memory; it was the first time that I knowingly met Beauty.

