Those who, in reading these quotations, have perhaps exclaimed, "Why must we go through this
farrago of nonsense?" should reflect, that they have now wasted but a few minutes of their
time upon what children are doomed to study for hours and years. If a few pages disgust, what
must be the effect of volumes in the same style! and what sort of writing can we expect from
pupils who are condemned to such reading? The analogy of ancient and modern languages, differs
so materially, that a literal translation of any ancient author, can scarcely be tolerated.
Yet, in general, young scholars are under a necessity of rendering their Latin lessons into
English word for word, faithful to the taste of their dictionaries, or the notes in their translations.
This is not likely to improve the freedom of their English style; or, what is of much more
consequence, is it likely to preserve in the pupil's mind a taste for literature? It is not
the time that is spent in pouring over lexicons, it is not the multiplicity of rules learnt
by rote, nor yet is it the quantity of Latin words crammed into the memory, which can give
the habit of attention or the power of voluntary exertion: without these, you will never have
time enough to teach; with them, there will always be time enough to learn.--One half hour's
vigorous application, is worth a whole day's constrained and yawning study. If we compare what
from experience we know can be done by a child of ordinary capacity in a given time, with what
he actually does in school-hours, we shall be convinced of the enormous waste of time incident
to the common methods of instruction. Tutors are sensible of this; but they throw the blame
upon their pupils--"You might have learned your lesson in half the time, if you had chosen
it." The children also are sensible of this; but they are not able or willing to prevent the
repetition of the reproach. But exertion does not always depend upon the will of the boy; it
depends upon his previous habits, and upon the strength of the immediate motive which acts
upon him. Some children of quick abilities, who have too much time allotted for their classical
studies, are so fully sensible themselves of the pernicious effect this has upon their activity
of mind, that they frequently defer getting their lessons to the last moment, that they may
be forced by a sufficient motive to exert themselves. In classes at public schools, the quick
and the slow, the active and indolent, the stumbling and sure-footed, are all yoked together,
and are forced to keep pace with one another: stupidity may sometimes be dragged along by the
vigour of genius; but genius is more frequently chained down by the weight of stupidity. We
are well aware of the difficulties with which the public preceptor has to contend; he is often
compelled by his situation to follow ancient usage, and to continue many customs which he wishes
to see reformed. Any reformation in the manner of instruction in these public seminaries, must
be gradual, and will necessarily follow the conviction that parents may feel of its utility.
Perhaps nothing can be immediately done, more practicably useful, than to simplify grammar,
and to lighten as much as possible the load that is laid upon the memory. Without a multiplicity
of masters, it would be impossible to suit instruction to the different capacities, and previous
acquirements, of a variety of pupils; but in a private education, undoubtedly the task may
be rendered much easier to the scholar and to the teacher; much jargon may be omitted; and
what appears from want of explanation to be jargon, may be rendered intelligible by proper
skill and attention. During the first lessons in grammar, and in Latin, the pupil need not
be disgusted with literature, and we may apply all the principles which we find on other occasions
successful in the management of the attention.[2] Instead of keeping the attention feebly obedient
for an idle length of time, we should fix if decidedly by some sufficient motive for as short
a period as may be requisite to complete the work that we would have done. As we apprehend,
that even where children are to be sent to school, it will be a great advantage to them to
have some general notions of grammar, to lead them through the labyrinth of common school books,
we think that we shall do the public preceptor an acceptable service, if we point out the means
by which parents may, without much labour to themselves, render the first principles of grammar
intelligible and familiar to their children.

We may observe, that children pay the strictest attention to the analogies of the language
that they speak. Where verbs are defective or irregular, they supply the parts that are wanting
with wonderful facility, according to the common form of other verbs. They make all verbs regular.
I goed, I readed, I writed, &c. By a proper application of this faculty, much time may be saved
in teaching children grammar, much perplexity, and much of that ineffectual labour which stupifies
and dispirits the understanding. By gentle degrees, a child may be taught the relations of
words to each other in common conversation, before he is presented with the first sample of
grammatical eloquence in Lilly's Accidence. "There be eight parts of speech." A phrase which
in some parts of this kingdom would perhaps be understood, but which to the generality of boys
who go to school, conveys no meaning, and is got by heart without reflection, and without advantage.
A child can, however, be made to understand these formidable parts of speech, if they are properly
introduced to his acquaintance: he can comprehend, that some of the words which he hears express
that something is done; he will readily perceive, that if something is done, somebody, or something
must do it: he will distinguish with much facility the word in any common sentence which expresses
an action, and that which denotes the agent. Let the reader try the experiment immediately
upon any child of six or seven years old who has not learned grammar, and he may easily ascertain
the fact.

Then he spoke a short familiar sentence, and asked H----, to try if she could find out which
word in it was a verb, which a pronoun, and which a substantive. The little girl found them
all out most successfully, and formed no painful associations with her first grammatical lesson.
But though our pupil may easily understand, he will easily forget our first explanations; but
provided he understands them at the moment, we should pardon his forgetfulness, and we should
patiently repeat the same exercise several days successively; a few minutes at each lesson
will be sufficient, and the simplest sentences, such as children speak themselves, will be
the best examples. Mr. ----, after having talked four or five times, for a few minutes at a
time, with his son S----, when S---- was between five and six years old, about grammar, asked
him if he knew what a pronoun meant? The boy answered, "A word that is said instead of a substantive."
As these words might have been merely remembered by rote, the father questioned his pupil further,
and asked him to name any pronoun that he recollected. S----immediately said, "I a pronoun."
"Name another," said his father. The boy answered after some pause, as if he doubted whether
it was or was not a pronoun, A. Now it would have been very imprudent to have made a sudden
exclamation at the child's mistake. The father, without showing any surprise, gently answered,
"No, my dear, a does not stand in the place of any substantive. We say a man, but the word
a does not mean a man, when it is said by itself--Does it?"

S----. No.

Father. Then try if you can find out a word that does.

S----. He, and Sir.

Sir does stand, in conversation, in the place of a man, or gentleman; therefore the boy, even
by this mistake, showed that he had formed, from the definition that had been given to him,
a general idea of the nature of a pronoun, and at all events he exercised his understanding
upon the affair, which is the principal point we ought to have in view.

An interjection is a part of speech familiar to children. Mr. Horne Tooke is bitter in his
contempt for it, and will scarcely admit it into civilized company. "The brutish inarticulate
interjection, which has nothing to do with speech, and is only the miserable refuge of the
speechless, has been permitted to usurp a place amongst words, &c."--"The neighing of a horse,
the lowing of a cow, the barking of a dog, the purring of a cat; sneezing, coughing, groaning,
shrieking, and every other involuntary convulsion with oral sound, have almost as good a title
to be called parts of speech, as interjections have."

Mr. Horne Tooke would have been pleased with the sagacity of a child of five years old (S----)
who called laughing an interjection. Mr. ---- gave S----a slight pinch, in order to produce
"an involuntary convulsion with oral sound." And when the interjection Oh! was uttered by the
boy, he was told by his father, that the word was an interjection; and, that "any word or noise,
that expresses a sudden feeling of the mind, may be called an interjection." S----immediately
said, "is laughing an interjection, then?" We hope that the candid reader will not imagine,
that we produce these sayings of children of four or five years old, without some sense of
the danger of ridicule; but we wish to give some idea of the sort of simple answers which children
are likely to make in their first grammatical lessons. If too much is expected from them, the
disappointment, which must be quickly felt, and will be quickly shown by the preceptor, will
discourage the pupil. We must repeat, that the first steps should be frequently retraced: a
child should be for some weeks accustomed to distinguish an active verb, and its agent, or
nominative case, from every other word in a sentence, before we attempt to advance. The objects
of actions are the next class of words that should be selected.

The fanciful, or at least what appears to the moderns fanciful, arrangement of the cases amongst
grammarians, may be dispensed with for the present. The idea, that the nominative is a direct,
upright case, and that the genitive declines with the smallest obliquity from it; the dative,
accusative, and ablative, falling further and further from the perpendicularity of speech,
is a species of metaphysics not very edifying to a child. Into what absurdity men of abilities
may be led by the desire of explaining what they do not sufficiently understand, is fully exemplified
in other sciences as well as grammar.

