The wound should be thoroughly washed and cleansed as soon as possible after the bite is inflicted:
no sucking of the parts, as is advised by many, for the purpose of extracting the poison, as
the presence of a small abrasion of the lips or interior of the mouth would most assuredly
subject the parts to inoculation. If the wound be ragged, the edges may be taken off with a
pair of sharp scissors; the wound must then be thoroughly cauterized with nitrate of silver
(lunar caustic), being sure to introduce the caustic into the very depths of the wound, so
that it will reach every particle of poison that may have insinuated itself into the flesh.
If the wound is too small to admit of the stick of caustic, it may be enlarged by the knife,
taking care, however, not to carry the poison into the fresh cut, which can be avoided by wiping
the knife at each incision. Should the wound be made on any of the limbs, a bandage may be
placed around it during the application of these remedies, the more effectually to prevent
the absorption of the virus. Nitrate of silver is a most powerful neutralizer of specific poisons,
and the affected parts will soon come away with the slough, no dressings being necessary, except
perhaps olive oil, if there should be much inflammation of the parts. If the above plan be
pursued, the patient need be under no apprehension as to the result, but make his mind perfectly
easy on the point. This is the course generally pursued by the veterinary surgeons of Europe,
and there are but few of them who have not, some time in their practice, been bitten and often
severely lacerated by rabid animals; nevertheless, we never hear of their having suffered any
bad effects from such accidents. If caustic be not at hand, the wound may be seared over with
red-hot iron, which will answer as good a purpose, although much more painful in its operation.
Mr. Blaine, in closing his able and scientific article on this subject, very justly remarks,

  "Would I could instil into such minds the 'uncertainty' of the disease
  appearing at all; that is, even when no means have been used; and the
  'perfect security' they may feel who have submitted to the preventive
  treatment detailed. I have been bitten several times, Mr. Youatt
  several also; yet in neither of us was any dread occasioned: our
  experience taught us the 'absolute certainty' of the 'preventive'
  means; and such I take on me to pronounce they always prove, when
  performed with dexterity and judgment." We acknowledge ourselves a
  convert to this gentleman's doctrine; and feel satisfied that if the
  above course be adopted, there need be no fear whatever of the
  development of this frightful affection.--L.]

[Footnote 1: 'La Folie des Animaux', by M. Perquin.]

[Footnote 2: The physician Apollonius, having been bitten by a rabid dog, induced another dog
to lick the wound,

  "ut idem medicus esset qui vulneris auctor fuit."]

[Footnote 3: 'Journal Pratique de Med. Vet.']

[Footnote 4: 'Sporting Magazine', vol. xviii. p. 186.]

[Footnote 5: Daniel's 'Rural Sports', vol. i. p. 220.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VIII.

THE EYE AND ITS DISEASES.

The diseases that attack the same organ are essentially different, in different animals, in
their symptoms, intensity, progress, and mode of treatment. In periodic ophthalmia--that pest
of the equine race and opprobrium of the veterinary profession--the cornea becomes suddenly
opaque, the iris pale, the aqueous humour turbid, the capsule of the lens cloudy, and blindness
is the result. After a time, however, the cornea clears up, and becomes as bright as ever;
but the lens continues impervious to light, and vision is lost.

Ophthalmia in the dog presents us with symptoms altogether different. The conjunctiva is red;
that portion of it which spreads over the sclerotica is highly injected, and the cornea is
opaque. As the disease proceeds, and even at a very early period of its progress, an ulcer
appears on the centre; at first superficial, but enlarging and deepening until it has penetrated
the cornea, and the aqueous humour has escaped. Granulations then spring from the edges of
the ulcer, rapidly enlarge, and protrude through the lids. Under proper treatment, however,
or by a process of nature, these granulations cease to sprout; they begin to disappear; the
ulcer diminishes; it heals; scarcely a trace of it can be seen; the cornea recovers its perfect
transparency, and vision is not in the slightest degree impaired.

There is a state of the orbit which requires some consideration. It is connected with the muscles
employed in mastication. Generally speaking, the food of the dog requires no extraordinary
degree of mastication, nor is there usually any great time employed in this operation. That
muscle which is most employed in the comminution of the food, namely, the temporal muscle,
has its action very much limited by the position of the bony socket of the eye; yet sufficient
room is left for all the force that can be required. In some dogs, either for purposes of offence
or defence, or the more effectual grasping of the prey, a sudden violent exertion of muscular
power, and a consequent contraction of the temporal muscle, are requisite, but for which the
imperfect socket of the orbit does not seem to afford sufficient scope and room. There is an
admirable provision for this in the removal of a certain portion of the orbital process of
the frontal bone on the outer and upper part of the external ridge, and the substitution of
an elastic cartilage. This cartilage momentarily yields to the swelling of the muscles; and
then, by its inherent elasticity, the external ridge of the orbit resumes its pristine form.
The orbit of the dog, the pig, and the cat, exhibits this singular mechanism.

The horse is, to a certain extent, also an illustration of this. He requires an extended field
of vision to warn him of the approach of his enemies in his wild state, and a direction of
the orbits somewhat forward to enable him to pursue with safety the headlong course to which
we sometimes urge him; and for this purpose his eyes are placed more forward than those of
cattle, sheep, or swine. That which Mr. Percivall states of the horse is true of our other
domesticated animals:

  "The eyeball is placed within the anterior or more capacious part of
  the orbit, nearer to the frontal than to the temporal side, with a
  degree of prominence peculiar to the individual, and, within certain
  limits, variable at his will."

In many of the carnivorous animals the orbit encroaches on the bones of the face. A singular
effect is also produced on the countenance, both when the animal is growling over his prey
and when he is devouring it. The temporal muscle is violently acted upon; it presses upon the
cartilage that forms part of the external ridge; that again forces itself upon and protrudes
the eye, and hence the peculiar ferocity of expression which is observed at that time. The
victims of these carnivorous animals are also somewhat provided against danger by the acuteness
of sight with which they are gifted. Adipose matter also exists in a considerable quantity
in the orbit of the eye, which enables it to revolve by the slightest contraction of the muscles.

We should scarcely expect to meet with cases of fracture of the orbital arch in the dog, because,
in that animal, cartilage, or a cartilago-ligamentous substance, occupies a very considerable
part of that arch; but I have again and again, among the cruelties that are practised on the
inferior creation, seen the cartilage partly, or even entirely, torn asunder. I have never
been able satisfactorily to ascertain the existence of this during life; but I have found it
on those whom I have recommended to be destroyed on account of the brutal usage which they
had experienced. Blows somewhat higher, or on the thick temporal muscle of this animal, will
very rarely produce a fracture.

A few cases of disease in the eye may be interesting and useful.

'Case' I.--The eyes of a favourite spaniel were found inflamed and impatient of light. Nothing
wrong had been perceived on the preceding day. No ulceration could be observed on the cornea,
and there was but a slight mucous discharge. An infusion of digitalis, with twenty times the
quantity of tepid water, was employed as a collyrium, and an aloetic ball administered. On
the following day the eyes were more inflamed, The collyrium and the aloes were employed as
before, and a seton inserted in the poll.

Three or four days afterwards the redness was much diminished, the discharge from the eye considerably
lessened, and the dog was sent home. The seton, however, was continued, with an aloetic ball
on every third or fourth day.

Two or three days after this the eyes were perfectly cured and the seton removed.

'Case' II.--The eye is much inflamed and the brow considerably protruded.

This was supposed to be caused by a bite. I vainly endeavoured to bring the lid over the swelling.
I scarified the lid freely, and ordered the bleeding to be encouraged by the constant application
of warm water, and physic-ball to be given.

On the following day the brow was found to be scarcely or at all reduced, and the eye could
not be closed. I drew out the haw with a crooked needle, and cut it off closely with sharp
scissors. The excised portion was as large as a small-kidney-bean. The fomentation was continued
five days afterwards, and the patient then dismissed cured.

'Case' III.--A pointer was brought in a sad state of mange. Redness, scurf, and eruptions were
on almost every part. Apply the mange ointment and the alterative and physic balls. On the
following day there was an ulcer on the centre of the cornea, with much appearance of pain
and impatience of light. Apply an infusion of digitalis, with the liquor plumbi diacetatis.
He was taken away on the twelfth day, the mange apparently cured, and the inflammation of the
eye considerably lessened. A fortnight afterwards this also appeared to be cured.

'Case' IV.--A spaniel had been bitten by a large dog. There was no wound of the lids, but the
eye was protruded from the socket. I first tried whether it could be reduced by gentle pressure,
but I could not accomplish it. I then introduced the blunt end of a curved needle between the
eye and the lid; and thus drawing up the lid with the right hand, while I pressed gently on
the eye with the left hand, I accomplished my object. I then subtracted three ounces of blood
and gave a physic-ball. On the following day the eye was hot and red, with some tumefaction.
The pupil was moderately contracted, but was scarcely affected by any change of light. The
dog was sent home, with some extract of goulard, and a fortnight afterwards was quite well.

'Case' V.--A dog received a violent blow on the right eye. Immediate blindness occurred, or
the dog could apparently just discern the difference between light and darkness, but could
not distinguish particular objects. The pupil was expanded and immovable. A pink-coloured hue
could be perceived on looking earnestly into the eye. A seton was introduced into the poll,
kept there nearly a month, and often stimulated rather sharply. General remedies of almost
every kind were tried: depletion was carried to its full extent, the electric fluid was had
recourse to; but at the expiration of nine weeks the case was abandoned and the dog destroyed.
Permission to examine him was refused.

I have, in two or three instances, witnessed decided cases of dropsy of the eye, accumulation
of fluid taking place in both the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye; there was also
effusion of blood in the chambers, but in one case only was there the slightest benefit produced
by the treatment adopted, and in that there was gradual absorption of the effused fluid.

About the same time there was another similar case. A pointer had suddenly considerable opacity
of one eye, without any known cause: the other eye was not in the least degree affected. The
dog had not been out of the garden for more than a week. The eye was ordered to be fomented
with warm water.

On the following day the inflammation had increased, and the adipose matter was protruded at
both the inner and outer canthus. The eye was bathed frequently with a goulard lotion. On the
fourth day the eyeball was still more inflamed, and the projections at both canthi were increased.
A curved needle was passed through both eyes, and there was considerable bleeding. On the following
day the inflammation began to subside. At the expiration of a week scarcely any disease remained,
and the eye became as transparent as ever.

A curious ease of congenital blindness was brought to my infirmary. A female pointer puppy,
eight weeks old, had both her eyes of their natural size and formation, but the inner edge
of the iris was strangely diseased. The pupil was curiously four-cornered, and very small.
There hung out of the pupil a grayish-white fibrous matter, which appeared to be the remainder
of the pupillary membrane.

Six months afterwards we examined her again, and found that the pupil was considerably enlarged,
and properly shaped, and the white skin had vanished. In the back-ground of the eye there was
a faint yellow-green light, and the dog not only showed sensibility to light, but some perception
of external objects. At this period we lost sight of her.

A very considerable improvement has taken place with regard to the treatment of the enlarged
or protruded ball of the eye. A dog may get into a skirmish, and have his eye forced from the
socket. If there is little or no bleeding, the case will probably be easily and successfully
treated.

The eye must, first, be thoroughly washed, and not a particle of grit must be left. A little
oil, a crooked needle, and a small piece of soft rag should be procured. The blunt end of the
needle should he dipped into the oil, and run round the inside of the lid, first above and
then below. The operator will next--his fingers being oiled--press upon the protruded eye gently,
yet somewhat firmly, changing the pressure from one part of the eye to the other, in order
to force it back into the socket.

If, after a couple of minutes' trial, he does not succeed, let him again oil the eye on the
inside and the out, and once more introduce the blunt end of the needle, attempting to carry
it upwards under the lid with two or three fingers pressing on the eye, and the points of pressure
being frequently changed. In by far the greater number of cases, the eye will be saved.

If it is impracticable to cause the eye to retract, a needle with a thread attached must be
passed through it, the eye being then drawn as forward as possible and cut off close to the
lids. The bleeding will soon cease and the lids perfectly close.

'Ophthalmia' is a disease to which the dog is often liable. It is the result of exposure either
to heat or to cold, or violent exertion; it is remedied by bleeding, purging, and the application
of sedative medicine, as the acetate of lead or the tincture of opium. When the eye is considerably
inflamed, in addition to the application of tepid or cold water, either the inside of the lids
or the white of the eye may be lightly touched with the lancet. From exposure to cold, or accident
or violence, inflammation often spreads on the eye to a considerable degree, the pupil is clouded,
and small streaks of blood spread over the opaque cornea. The mode of treatment just described
must be pursued.

The crystalline lens occasionally becomes opaque. There is cataract. It may be the result of
external injury or of internal predisposition. Old dogs are particularly subject to cataract.
That which arises from accident, or occasionally disease, may, although seldom, be reinstated,
especially in the young dog, and both eyes may become sound; but, in the old, the slow-growing
opacity will, almost to a certainty, terminate in cataract.

There is occasionally an enlargement of the eye, or rather an accumulation of fluid within
the eye, to a very considerable extent. No external application seems to have the slightest
effect in reducing the bulk of the eye. If it is punctured, much inflammation ensues, and the
eye gradually wastes away.

In 'amaurosis', the eye is beautifully clear, and, for a little while, this clearness imposes
upon the casual observer; but there is a peculiar pellucid appearance about the eye--a preternatural
and unchanging brightness. In the horse, the sight occasionally returns, but I have never seen
this in the dog.

The occasional glittering of the eyes of the dog has been often observed. The cat, the wolf,
some carnivora, and also sheep, cows, and horses, occasionally exhibit the same glittering.
Pallas imagined that the light of these animals emanated from the nervous membrane of the eye,
and considered it to be an electrical phenomenon. It is found, however, in every animal that
possesses a 'tapetum lucidum'. The shining, however, never takes place in complete darkness.
It is neither produced voluntarily, nor in consequence of any moral emotion, but solely from
the reflection that falls on the eye.

[The eye and its diseases being so concisely treated by Mr. Youatt, we are emboldened to add
a more full and particular treatise on this interesting subject, couched in language the most
simple, and we trust sufficiently plain to be understood by the most unscientific patron of
the canine race.

THE EYE AND ITS DISEASES.

THE NICTITATING MEMBRANE.

It is somewhat astonishing that an organ, so delicate and so much exposed as the eye of the
hunting dog necessarily is, should not more frequently be attacked with disease, or suffer
from the thorns, poisonous briars, and bushes that so constantly oppose their progress while
in search of game. Nature, ever wise in her undertakings, while endowing this organ with extreme
sensibility, also furnished it with the means of protecting itself in some measure against
the many evils that so constantly threaten its destruction.

The plica semilunaris, haw or nictitating membrane, though not as largely developed in the
dog as in some other animals, is, nevertheless, of sufficient size to afford considerable protection
to the ball of the eye, and assists materially in preventing the accumulation of seeds and
other minute particles within the conjunctiva. This delicate membrane is found at the inner
canthus of the eye, and can be drawn at pleasure over a portion of the globe, so as to free
its surface from any foreign substances that might be upon it. Although the eye of the dog
is attacked by many diseases, almost as numerous as those of the human being, still they are
much less frequent and far more tractable.

OPTHAMALIA--SIMPLE INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE.

In its mild form this disease is frequently met with, and easily yields to the administration
of the proper remedies, but when it appears as an epidemic, in a kennel, it proves more stubborn.
The discharge in epidemic ophthalmia, when carried from one dog to the eyes of another, no
doubt is contagious, and, therefore, it is necessary to separate dogs as much from each other
as possible during any prevalent epidemic of this nature.

The disease announces itself by slight redness of the conjunctiva, tenderness to light, and
increased flow of the secretions.

The eyeball appears retracted in its socket, and more moist and transparent than usual. The
infected vessels of the conjunctiva form a species of net-work, and can be moved about with
this membrane, showing that the inflammation is entirely superficial, and not penetrating the
other coverings of the eye. Extravasation of blood within the conjunctiva, (bloodshot,) is
also not an uncommon appearance, but is frequently the first symptom that draws our attention
to the malady.

As the disease progresses, the conjunctiva becomes more vascular, the photophobia intolerable,
the cornea itself becomes opaque, and sometimes exhibits a vascular appearance.  There is considerable
itching of the ball, as evinced by the disposition of the dog to close the eye. If the disease
progresses in its course, unchecked by any remediate means, the cornea may lose its vitality,
ulceration commence, and the sight be for ever destroyed by the bursting and discharge of the
contents of the eye.

'Causes.'--Simple canine opthalmia proceeds from many causes, distinct in their character,
but all requiring pretty much the same treatment. Bad feeding, bad lodging, want of exercise,
extremes of heat, and cold, are the most active agents in producing this affection.

'Treatment.'--The disease in its mild form is very tractable, and requires but little attention;
soothing applications, in connexion with confinement to an obscure apartment and low diet,
will generally correct the affection in its forming stage.

In all inflammations of the eye, tepid applications we consider preferable to cold, the latter
producing a temporary reaction, but no permanent good, while the former exerts a soothing and
relaxing influence over the tissues and parts to which they are applied.

Weak vinegar and water, with a small proportion of laudanum, we have frequently seen used with
advantage as a wash in this complaint.

When there is fever, it will be necessary to bleed, and purge. Scarifying the conjunctiva with
the point of a lancet, has been resorted to by some veterinary surgeons with success.

CHRONIC OPHTHALMIA.

When the disease assumes this form, the discharge from the eyes is lessened, and becomes more
thick, the conjunctiva is not of such a bright arterial red, but more of a brick-dust colour,
and the inner side of the lids when exposed will present small prominences and ulcerations.

'Treatment.'--More stimulating collyria will now be necessary, as solutions of sulphate of
zinc, copper, acetate of lead, &c. See No. 1, 2, 3, of the Collyria. The direct application
of sulphate of copper, or nitrate of silver, will often be of great benefit in changing the
action of the parts.

The lids should be turned down and brushed over two or three times with the above articles
in substance, and the dog restrained for a few moments to prevent him from scratching during
the temporary pain inflicted upon him by the application.

Laudanum dropped in the eye will also prove very beneficial, allaying the itching and pain,
at the same time stimulating the organs to renewed action. If the disease does not succumb
under this treatment, a seton placed in the pole will generally conquer it.

TRAUMATIC OPHTHALMIA

is produced by wounds of poisoned briars, stings of insects, bites of other dogs, the scratching
of cats, or the actual presence of foreign bodies in the eye itself, which latter cause frequently
occurs, and is often overlooked by the sportsman.

'Treatment'.--This species of ophthalmia is best subdued by the application of emollient poultices,
depletion, purgation and cooling washes. If a seed, small briar, or other substance has got
in under the lids, or inserted itself in the globe of the eye, the dog keeps the eye closed,
it waters freely, and in a short time becomes red and inflamed. The removal of the article
alone, will generally produce a cure; sometimes it is necessary to use a cooling wash and administer
a purge or two. Great care should he had for the extraction of extraneous substances from the
eyes of dogs, as their presence often causes great suffering to the animal even while diligently
employed in the field. The writer has seen dogs more than once rendered useless while hunting,
by grass, cloverseeds, or other small particles burying themselves under the lids.

'Ophthalmia of Distemper'.--This species of inflammation will be spoken of when treating of
this latter affection.

SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMIA

arises from the presence of some other disease located in another portion of the body, as derangement
of the stomach, mange, surfeit, &c. The presence of one of these affections will indicate the
cause of the other.

'Treatment'.--Soothing applications to the organ itself, and remedies for the removal of the
primary affection.

HYDROPHTHALMIA

though not a common affection in the canine race, is occasionally met with; several cases have
come under the observation of the writer, and no doubt there are but few dog-fanciers who have
not seen the eyeballs of some dog suffering with this malady, ready to start from their sockets.

This affection depends upon a superabundance of the humours of the eye, occasioned by over-secretion,
or a want of power in the absorbent vessels to carry off the natural secretions of the parts.

Old dogs are more apt to suffer from this disease than young dogs: nevertheless, the latter
are not by any means exempt; we once saw a pup, a few days old, with the globe of the eye greatly
extended by this affection.

As the disease progresses, the eye becomes more hard and tender, the sight is greatly impaired,
and ultimately, if not arrested, the eye bursts, discharges its contents, and total blindness
ensues, greatly to the relief of the poor animal.

'Treatment'.--This disease is very intractable, and is to be combated by saline purges, bleeding,
and stimulating application to the organ itself. Mercurial ointment, rubbed over the eyebrow,
will assist in stimulating the absorbents.

When the disease has progressed for a long time, and the pain, as is often the case, seems
intense, it will save the animal great suffering, by opening the ball and allowing the humours
to escape. This may be done by puncturing the cornea or the sclerotic coat with a needle. Setons
introduced along the spine would have a good effect.

CONGENITAL BLINDNESS

occasionally occurs throughout a whole litter, no doubt being entailed upon the progeny of
those dogs who have defective vision, or who are old and infirm at the time of copulation.
The best and only remedy is speedy drowning.

CATARACT

consists in the partial or complete opacity of the crystalline lens; it results from numerous
causes, and is more frequent in the old than the young subject. In old dogs both eyes are usually
attacked, producing absolute blindness, while in young animals one eye alone is generally attacked.

'Causes.'--Old age, hard work, and bad feeding, are the agents most active in the production
of this affection; it generally comes on slowly, but sometimes very quickly.

When the disease occurs in young dogs, it is generally the result of wounds or blows over the
head, convulsions and falls.

'Treatment.'--Little can be accomplished towards curing this disease either in the old or young
dog, as the disease, in spite of all our efforts, will run its course, and terminate in total
opacity of the lens. Mild purging, blistering on the neck, introduction of the seton, and blowing
slightly stimulating powders into the eye, will sometimes arrest the progress of the disease
in the young dog.

ULCERATIONS ON THE CORNEA

are sometimes very troublesome, and if not put a stop to, will often cause opacity and blindness,
if not total destruction of the eye.

Slightly stimulating washes and purges are useful; the careful application of nitrate of silver
will often induce the ulcer to heal; it must be put on very nicely and gently.

SPOTS ON THE CORNEA

are the result of ulcers and inflammation. If they do not materially interfere with vision,
they had better be left alone.

Powdered sugar and a small quantity of alum blown into the eye daily through a quill, we have
seen used with much success.

AMAUROSIS--GUTTA SERENA OR GLASS EYE,

A partial or complete paralysis of the optic nerves of either side is not a frequent disease.
It usually comes on gradually, but sometimes may appear in the course of a few hours from the
effects of wounds or convulsions. When the paralysis is complete, total blindness of course
ensues. The intimate connection, or sympathy, existing between the nerves of either eye, is
so peculiar that disease of one is quickly followed by a corresponding disease in the other.

Amaurosis, therefore, ordinarily ends in total blindness. The disease is characterized by a
dilated stage of the pupil, which seldom contracts under the effect of any degree of light
thrown upon it. The coats and humours of the eye are perfectly transparent, in fact appear
to be more pellucid than natural.

'Causes.'--This affection is produced in many different ways; among the most common causes
may be mentioned wounds on the head, or of the parts surrounding the nerve, strains, falls,
disease of the bone, convulsions, and epileptic fits.

We have seen a case produced by a tumour, which occupied the posterior portion of the orbit,
and caused the organ to be somewhat protruded from its proper position, giving the eye the
appearance of hydrophthalmia, for which it was taken, the existence of the tumour never for
a moment being suspected. In this case there was partial amaurosis in both sides, although
nothing of disease could be discovered in the left eye.

Amaurosis is a very deceptive disease, the nerves alone being affected; the humours and coverings
of the eye remaining perfectly transparent and natural, imposes upon the inexperienced observer,
but is easily detected by those who have witnessed the disease in others. There is a singular
watery appearance and vacant stare about the eye of the dog that cannot be mistaken. This peculiarity
is owing, no doubt, to the enlargement of the pupil, as before observed.

'Treatment'.--When proceeding from blows, convulsions, or inflammation of the nerve itself,
bleeding will be serviceable, as also purging and blistering. If the disease should appear
without any symptom, or other cause, to lead us to believe that there is any local affection,
the antiphlogistic course should be laid aside, and resort be had to local and constitutional
tonic applications, and revulsive frictions to the nape of the neck and spine. A seton may
also be applied; and electricity has been recommended in such cases, no doubt arising from
want of tone in the general system.

This affection, in spite of every effort, is very unmanageable, and but seldom yields to any
course of treatment. Strychnia has been used lately, both internally and externally, in the
cure of this complaint; it may be sprinkled over a blistered surface immediately above the
eye, in the proportion of a grain morning and evening; it may also be administered inwardly
at the same time, in doses from the half a grain to a grain twice a day.

EXTIRPATION OF THE EYE.

It sometimes becomes necessary, from the diseased state of this organ, that it should be taken
completely from its socket. This operation, though frightful, perhaps, to consider, is very
simple in its application, and may be performed without difficulty by any one accustomed to
the use of the knife. The animal is to be held firmly, as before directed, and an assistant
to keep the lids widely extended.

If the lids cannot be drawn well over the eye, owing to enlargement of the ball caused by disease,
they may be separated by an incision at the external angle. A curved needle armed with a thread
is now to be passed entirely through the eye, being careful to include sufficient of the sound
parts within its grasp to prevent its tearing out. This finished, the needle may be detached,
and the ends of the thread being united, the movements of the eye can be governed by means
of this ligature: then proceed as follows:

1st. The assistant keeping the lids well separated, the operator draws the eye upward and outward,
and then inserting the scalpel at the inner and lower angle of the eye, with a gentle sweep
separates the ball from the lids, extending the incisions through to the external canthus.

2d. The ball is now to be drawn inwardly and downward, while the scalpel, continuing the circular
movement as far as the internal canthus, separates the upper lid.

3d. The muscles and optic nerves still bind this organ to the orbit, which attachments can
easily be destroyed by the scalpel, by pulling the eye forward sufficiently to reach them.
If the eye has been extirpated on account of any malignant disease, it is necessary to remove
every particle of muscle from the orbit; and when the disease has extended itself to the lids,
it will also be proper to remove that portion of them included in the affection.

The hemorrhage from the operation is trifling, and may generally be arrested by the pressure
of the fingers, or the insertion of a conical ball of lint within the socket, which may be
allowed to remain two or three days if necessary. If there is nothing to apprehend from hemorrhage,
it is only necessary to draw the lids together, and unite that portion which has been separated
by a suture, and place a hood over the whole.

We do not recommend the stuffing of the orbit with lint, except in case of hemorrhage, as its
presence will sometimes produce violent inflammation, which may extend to the brain. The cavity
of the eye will, in a measure, be filled up by newly formed matter. The dog must be restricted
to a low cooling diet, and have administered two or three saline purges.

ULCERATIONS OF THE EYELIDS

are often met with in old mangy, ill-fed animals, and are difficult to overcome, except by
curing the the primary affection, which is often no easy task. The lids become enlarged, puffy,
and tender, the lashes fall out, and the edges present an angry reddish appearance.

'Treatment'--Must be directed, in the first place, to the curing of the old affection, by which,
in connection with blisters, purging, stimulating washes, &c., a cure may be effected. When
the swelling of the lids is considerable, scarifying them with the point of a lancet will often
be of much service. Ointment of nitrate of silver may also be smeared on the edges.

WARTS ON THE EYELIDS

sometimes make their appearance; they may be lifted up with the forceps, and excised with a
knife or scissors, and the wound touched with nitrate of silver. The same treatment will answer
for those warts, or little excrescences, that sometimes come on the inside of the lids.

ENTROPIUM--INVERSION OF THE EYELIDS.

This disease we do not find mentioned by any of the writers on canine pathology: nevertheless,
we are led to believe that it is not an uncommon form of ophthalmia; and we must express our
surprise that it should have escaped the attention of such close observers as Blain and Youatt.

The acute form of the disease resulting from, or attending, simple ophthalmia, we have often
witnessed, but the chronic form, of which we more particularly speak, is more rare. We have
seen three cases of the latter, and, no doubt, might have found many more if our opportunities
of studying canine pathology were equal to those of the English writers. The inversion of the
eyelids upon the globe is accompanied with pain and irritation, swelling and inflammation,
both of the lids and eye, which ultimately renders the dog almost useless, if not entirely blind.

'Causes'.--Neglected chronic ophthalmia was, no doubt, the cause of the disease in two cases,
a setter and a pointer, while the other, in a hound, was the result of an acute attack of ophthalmia
brought on by scalding with hot pitch thrown upon the animal. Some of this substance entered
the eye, while a large portion adhered to the muzzle and lids. The eye, as well as the lids,
became inflamed; the latter, being puffed up and contracted on their edges, were necessarily
drawn inwards from the tension of the parts, and double entropium was thus produced. The inflammation
and tumefaction of the parts continued for a considerable time, and when ultimately reduced
by the application of tepid fomentations, the skin appeared greatly relaxed; and the muscular
fibres having lost their power of support or contractility, owing to their long quiescence,
seemed no longer able to keep their lids in their proper situation; the edges therefore remained
in the abnormous position previously assumed.

By this strange condition of the parts, the eyeball continued greatly irritated by the constant
friction of the lashes; water was continually flowing over the lids, and from its irritating
character produced considerable excoriation of the face and muzzle. The conjunctiva remained
inflamed, the cornea in due course became ulcerous, and the eye was ultimately destroyed by
the discharge of its contents. This was the course and final termination of the disease in
the case of the hound above referred to, all of which disastrous results might have been prevented
by proper management.

'Treatment.'--When in England, we sent to the United States a fine bred pointer dog, designed
as a present for one of our sporting friends. This animal travelled from Leeds to Liverpool,
chained on top of the railroad cars; the journey occupied several hours, daring which the weather
was cold and boisterous, and we noticed on his arrival at the latter place that his eyes were
watering and somewhat inflamed. On examining them more particularly, we were enabled to extract
several pieces of cinder from under the lids, which seemed to relieve him somewhat. He went
to sea, in the care of the steward, on the following day; and remained on deck exposed to the
inclemency of the weather during a long voyage. When he arrived in Philadelphia, the inflammation,
we were informed, was very considerable, occasioned by the presence of some other small particles
of cinder that may have escaped our attention before shipping him. The presence of these foreign
substances in the eye, in connection with the salt spray and irritating atmosphere, greatly
aggravated the ophthalmia, and resolved it into a chronic affection, which ultimately resulted
in entropium.

"Fop" was hunted during the same autumn, which no doubt increased the malady to a considerable
extent; and before the hunting season was over, the dog was rendered almost useless: the lids
becoming so much swollen and the irritation so considerable, that it was deemed cruel to allow
him to go into the field.

When we saw him some time in the course of the same winter, the lower lids of both eyes were
completely inverted on their globes, and the conjunctival inflammation and flow of tears considerable.

The eyes seemed contracted within their sockets, and at times were nearly hidden from view,
the corneas were somewhat opaque, the photophobia intolerable, and the animal showed evident
signs of extreme pain, by his restless anxiety and constant efforts at scratching and rubbing
the eyes.

Under the judicious application of cooling astringent collyria, and other remediate means,
the irritation and pain of the parts were relieved, and the lids somewhat retracted.

"Fop" remained in this condition till the following autumn, suffering at times considerably
from the increased inflammation and tumefaction of the lids, which continued obstinately to
persist, insomuch that when turned out by the pressure of the fingers on them, they immediately
contracted, and were forced inwards on the ball when freed from the fingers.

Finding that no external application was of any permanent benefit, we resolved to have resort
to the same operation we saw practised in the Parisian hospitals for the cure of a similar
malformation in the human subject.

To insure quiet we enclosed the body of the dog in a case, made stationary and sufficiently
small to prevent struggling, with the head firmly fixed by a sliding door, as represented in
the accompanying drawing.

The mouth was kept closed by a small strap passed around the muzzle. This method of fixing
a strong dog, we consider the best ever adopted for all nice operations on the face. The first
step in the operation was to pinch up a portion of the lax skin of the diseased lid and pass
three needles, armed with silk ligatures, successively through the base of the upraised integuments.

One needle approximating the external canthus, another the internal, and a third midway between
these two points, as represented in the annexed drawing.

The next step was lo raise up the integuments included in the ligature, and, by means of a
pair of sharp scissors, cut off the super-abundant skin as near to the ligatures as possible;
having care however to leave sufficient substance included in the ligatures, to prevent their
sloughing out before adhesion has taken place. The next and last step of the operation was,
to draw the edges of the wound together by tying each ligature, which procedure immediately
secured the lid and held it firmly in its natural position. The ligatures were now cut short,
and a large wire muzzle, covered over with some dark substance on the operated eye, being put
on him, and his legs hobbled with a piece of strong twine, more effectually to prevent his
scratching the head, "Fop" was then set at liberty, and soon became reconciled to this eye-shade.

The hemorrhage was trifling, the wound healed up by the first intention and the ligatures were
drawn away in a few days, when a perfect cure was effected--the conjunctiva having lost its
inflammatory appearance, and the cornea having again become quite transparent.

The other eye was operated on in the same way and with like success. In the first operation
we cut away the loose flaccid integuments only; whereas, in the second, we snipped small longitudinal
fibres from the cartilage itself, and the operation consequently was more perfect, if possible,
than in the first instance.

The eyes were now perfectly restored, and remained well during the whole of the shooting season,
after which we lost sight of our patient, he having accompanied one of our friends as a "compagnon
de voyage" on a commercial expedition to Santa Fe, and, when on his return, had the misfortune
to lose "Fop," who was carried off into captivity by some prowling Camanches, who no doubt
have long since sacrificed him to the Great Spirit in celebrating the buffalo or wolf dance.

PROTRUSION OF THE EYE

The eye may be forced from its orbit by wounds or the bites of other animals.

If not materially injured, the ball should be cleaned with a little tepid water, or by wiping
off with a fine silk or cambric handkerchief, and immediately replaced within its socket; otherwise
the inflammation and swelling of the lids will soon prevent its easy admission. When handling
the protruded eye, the fingers should be dipped in olive oil or warm water.

When sufficient time has elapsed from the occurrence of the accident to prevent the ball being
replaced, owing to the swelling and contraction of the lids, an incision may be made at the
external angle of the eye, so as to divide the lids, which will then admit the eye into its
natural position. If not, the lid itself can be raised up and slit far enough to allow its
being drawn over the globe. As considerable inflammation generally follows this accident, it
will be prudent to bleed the animal and confine him.

We have seen eyes replaced, that have been out of their sockets for several hours, perfectly
recover their strength and brilliancy.

WEAK EYES.

Some dogs, particularly several breeds of spaniels, have naturally weak eyes, attended by an
over-secretion and constant flow of tears, more particularly when exposed to the sun. When
there is no disease of the lachrymal duct, the secretion may be diminished and the eyes strengthened
by the daily application of some slightly tonic wash, as No. 1, 2, 3, &c.

FISTULA LACHRYMALIS.

The lachrymal duct is a small canal, leading from the internal angle of the eye to the nostrils,
and is the passage through which the tears escape from the eye. This duct may become closed
by inflammation of the lining membrane of the nose, caries of the bone, ulcers, fungous growths,
or by the presence of some extraneous substance impacted in it. The tears, no longer having
a natural outlet, are necessarily forced over the lids, accompanied, not unfrequently, by a
good deal of purulent matter.

This canal, when thus obstructed from some one of the above causes, often forms an ulcerous
opening at its upper extremity, just below the internal canthus, for the escape of the pus
that usually collects in a sac at that point. This perforation is called "Fistula Lachrymalis."
The tears, entering the canal at its punctum, are carried along till they pass out at the fistulous
opening.

Treatment'.--This is a very troublesome affection, and has been pronounced incurable by some
writers. However, we would not hesitate making an attempt at relieving a favourite or valuable
dog of this disagreeable deformity. We should first endeavour to clear out the nasal canal,
either by means of a minute flexible probe, or by directing a stream of water from a suitable
syringe through its course. A small silver or copper style may then be placed in the canal
to keep it open, as also to direct the tears through the natural route. This being done, and
the dog confined in such a way as not to be able to scratch or rub the eye, the fistulous opening
might close up in a short time. However, it might be necessary to wear the style for many months.
In such a case, we see no reason why a wire muzzle, such as used by us after the operation
for Entropium, might not be worn for an indefinite period, without any inconvenience to the animal.

CARUNCULA LACHRYMALIS AND PLICA SEMILUNARIS, OR HAW.

The caruncula lachrymalis is a small glandular body situated at the internal commissure of
each eye. This little gland often becomes greatly enlarged from inflammation or fungous growths--old
dogs are much more subject to the disease than young ones.

'Treatment'.--The application of cooling collyria and a weak solution of nitrate of silver,
will generally suppress the further growth of this gland. If, however, it continues much swollen
and runs on to suppuration, it may be punctured with a lancet and poultices applied. If the
affection be of a malignant character, the gland may be drawn out by passing a ligature through
its base, and then excised.

The haw is most frequently concerned in the disease, and may also be removed.

Collyria:

No. I.

[Symbol: Rx] Vinegar                             [Symbol: ounce]   i.
             Laudanum                            [Symbol: scruple] i.
             Water                               [Symbol: ounce] vii.

Mix.--The eyes to be frequently bathed with the mixture.

No. 2.

[Symbol: Rx]  Sulphate of zinc (white vitriol)   [Symbol: scruple] i.
              Water                              [Symbol: ounce]  vi.

M.--To be used as above.

No. 3.

[Symbol: Rx]  Sulphate of copper (blue vitriol)   [Symbol: scruple] i.
              Water                               [Symbol: ounce]  vi.

M.--To be used as above.

No. 4.

[Symbol: Rx]  Acetate of lead (sugar of lead)     [Symbol: scruple] ii.
              Water                               [Symbol: ounce]   vi.

M.--To be used as above.

No. 5.

[Symbol: Rx]  Argenti nitrat. (nitrate of silver) [Symbol: scruple] i.
              Water                               [Symbol: ounce]  vi.

M.--To be dropped in the eye 2 or 3 times daily.

No. 6.

[Symbol: Rx]  Sub-muriate of mercury (corrosive sublimate)      grs. x.
              Water                               [Symbol: ounce]   vi.

M.--To be used as the preceding.

No. 7.

[Symbol: Rx]  Argenti nitrat (nitrate of silver)                grs. v.
              Fresh butter or lard                [Symbol: ounce]    i.

No. 8.

[Symbol: Rx]  Powdered alum                          grs. xv.
              Calomel                                grs. vii.

M.--Blown in the eye, will often have a most excellent effect, more particularly in old chronic
ophthalmia.

No. 9.

Infusions of slippery elm bark, sassafras or elder pith, infusions of green tea, flaxseed,
&c., are all excellent emollient applications--L.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER IX.

THE EAR AND ITS DISEASES.

'Canker in the Ear.'

All water-dogs, and some others, are subject to a disease designated by this name, and which,
in fact, is inflammation of the integumental lining of the inside of the ear. When the whole
of the body, except the head and ears, is surrounded by cold water, there will be an unusual
determination of blood to those parts, and consequent distension of the vessels and a predisposition
to inflammation. A Newfoundland dog, or setter, or poodle, that has been subject to canker,
is often freed from a return of the disease by being kept from the water.

The earliest symptom of the approach of canker is frequent shaking of the head, or holding
of the head on one side, or violent scratching of one or both ears. Redness of the integument
may then be observed, and particularly of that portion of it which lines the annular cartilage.
This is usually accompanied by some enlargement of the folds of the skin. As soon as any of
these symptoms are observed, the ear should be gently but well washed, two or three times in
the day, with lukewarm water, and after that a weak solution of the extract of lead should
be applied, and a dose or two of physic administered.

If the case is neglected, the pain will rapidly increase; the ear will become of an intenser
red; the folds of the integument will enlarge, and there will be a deposition of red or black
matter in the hollow of the ear. The case is now more serious, and should be immediately attended
to. This black or bloody deposit should be gently but carefully washed away with warm water
and soap; and the extract of lead, in the proportion of a scruple to an ounce of water, should
be frequently applied, until the redness and heat are abated. A solution of alum, in about
the same quantity of alum and water as the foregoing lotion, should then be used.

Some attention should be paid to the method of applying these lotions. Two persons will be
required in order to accomplish the operation. The surgeon must hold the muzzle of the dog
with one hand, and have the root of the ear in the hollow of the other, and between the first
finger and the thumb. The assistant must then pour the liquid into the ear; half a tea-spoonful
will usually be sufficient. The surgeon, without quitting the dog, will then close the ear,
and mould it gently until the liquid has insinuated itself as deeply as possible into the passages
of the ear. Should not the inflammation abate in the course of a few days, a seton should be
inserted in the poll, between the integument and the muscles of the occiput, reaching from
ear to ear. The excitement of a new inflammation, so near to the part previously diseased,
will materially abate the original affection. Physic is now indispensable. From half a drachm
to a drachm of aloes, with from one to two grains of calomel, should be given every third day.

Should the complaint have been much neglected, or the inflammation so great as to bid defiance
to these means, ulceration will too often speedily follow. It will be found lodged deep in
the passage, and can only be detected by moulding the ear; the effused pus will occasionally
occupy the inside of the ear to its very tip. However extensive and annoying the inflammation
may be, and occasionally causing so much thickening of the integument as perfectly to close
the ear, it is always superficial. It will generally yield to proper treatment, and the cartilage
of the ear may not be in the slightest degree affected. Still, however, the animal may suffer
extreme pain; the discharge from the ulcer may produce extensive excoriation of the cheek;
and, in a few cases, the system may sympathise with the excessive local application, and the
animal may be lost.

The treatment must vary with circumstances. If the ulceration is deep in the ear, and there
is not a very great degree of apparent inflammation, recourse may be had at once to a stimulating
and astringent application, such as alum or the sulphate of zinc, and in the proportion of
six grains of either to an ounce of water. If, however, the ulceration occupies the greater
part of the hollow of the ear, and is accompanied by much thickening of the integument, and
apparent filling up of the entrance to the ear, some portion of the inflammation must be first
subdued.

The only chance of getting rid of the disease is to confine the ear. A piece of strong calico
must be procured, six or eight inches in width, and sufficiently long to reach round the head
and meet under the jaw. Along each side of it must be a running piece of tape, and a shorter
piece sewed at the centre of each of the ends. By means of these the cap may be drawn tightly
over the head, above the eyes, and likewise round the neck behind the ears, so as perfectly
to confine them.

After all, no mild ointment will dispose such an ulcer to heal, and recourse must be had at
once to a caustic application. A scruple of the nitrate of silver must be rubbed down with
an ounce of lard, and a little of it applied twice every day, and rubbed tolerably hard into
the sore until it assumes a healthy appearance; it may then be dressed with the common calamine
ointment.

If the discharge should return, the practitioner must again have recourse to the caustic ointment.

The cartilage will never close, but the integument will gradually cover the exposed edges,
and the wound will be healed. The ear will, however, long continue tender, and, if it should
be much beaten, by the shaking of the head, the ulcer will reappear. This must be obviated
by occasionally confining the ears, and not overfeeding the dog.

Some sportsmen are accustomed to 'round' the ears, that is to cut off the diseased part. In
very few instances, however, will a permanent cure be effected, while the dog is often sadly
disfigured. A fresh ulcer frequently appears on the new edge, and is more difficult to heal
than the original one. Nine times out of ten the disease reappears.

The Newfoundland dog is very subject to this disease, to remedy which recourse must be had
to the nitrate of silver.

Spaniels have often a mangy inflammation of the edges of the ear. It seldom runs on to canker;
but the hair comes off round the edges of the ear, accompanied by much heat and scurfiness
of the skin. The common sulphur ointment, with an eighth part of mercurial ointment, will usually
remove the disease.

From the irritation produced by canker in or on the ear, and the constant flapping and beating
of the ear, there is sometimes a considerable effusion of fluid between the integument and
the cartilage occupying the whole of the inside of the flap of the ear. The only remedy is
to open the enlarged part from end to end, carefully to take out the gossamer lining of the
cyst, and then to insert some bits of lint on each side of the incision, in order to prevent
its closing too soon. In a few days, the parietes of the cyst will begin to adhere, and a perfect
cure will be accomplished

If the tumour is simply punctured, the incision will speedily close, and the cyst will fill
again in the space of four-and-twenty hours. A seton may be used, but it is more painful to
the dog, and slower in its operation.

The ear should be frequently fomented with a decoction of white poppies, and to this should
follow the Goulard lotion; and, after that, if necessary, a solution of alum should be applied.
To the soreness or scabby eruption, which extends higher up the ear, olive oil or spermaceti
ointment may be applied. In some cases, portions of the thickened skin, projecting and excoriated,
and pressing on each other, unite, and the opening into the ear is then mechanically filled.
I know not of any remedy for this. It is useless to perforate the adventitious substance, for
the orifice will soon close; and, more than once, when I have made a crucial incision, and
cut out the unnatural mass that closed the passage, I have found it impossible to keep down
the fungous granulations or to prevent total deafness.

The following is a singular case of this disease:--1st July, 1820 a dog was sent with a tumour,
evidently containing a fluid, in the flap of the ear. A seton had been introduced, but had
been sadly neglected. The hair had become matted round the seton, and the discharge had thus
been stopped. Inflammation and considerable pain had evidently followed, and the dog had nearly
torn the seton out. I removed it, washed the ear well, and applied the tincture of myrrh and
aloes. The wound soon healed. On the 14th the ear began again to fill. On the 17th the tumour
was ripe for the seton, which was again introduced, and worn until the 9th of August, when
the sides of the abscess appeared again to have adhered, and it was withdrawn. Canker had continued
in the ear during the whole time; and, in defiance of a cold lotion daily applied, the ear
was perceived again to be disposed to fill. The seton was once more inserted, and the cyst
apparently closed. The seton was continued a fortnight after the sinus was obliterated, and
then removed. Six weeks afterwards the swelling had disappeared, and the canker was quite removed.
This anecdote is an encouragement to persevere under the most disheartening circumstances.

All dogs that are foolishly suffered to become gross and fat are subject to canker. It seems
to be a natural outlet for excess of nutriment or gross humour; and, when a dog has once laboured
under the disease, he is very subject to a return of it. The fatal power of habit is in few
cases more evident than in this disease. When a dog has symptoms of mange, the redness or eruption
of the skin, generally, will not unfrequently disappear, and bad canker speedily follow. The
habit, however, may be subdued, or at least may be kept at bay, by physic and the use of Goulard
lotion or alum.

Sportsmen are often annoyed by another species of canker Pointers and hounds are particularly
subject to it.

This species of canker commences with a scurfy eruption and thickening of the edges of the
ear, apparently attended by considerable itching or pain. The dog is continually flapping his
ear, and beating it violently against his head. The inflammation is thus increased, and the
tip of the ear becomes exceedingly sore. This causes him to shake his head still more violently,
and the ulcer spreads and is indisposed to heal, and at length a fissure or crack appears on
the tip of the cartilage, and extends to a greater or less distance down the ear.

The narration of one or two cases may be useful, as showing the inveteracy of the disease.

8th Feb. 1832.--A Newfoundland dog, very fat, had dreadful canker in both ears, and considerable
discharge of purulent matter. He was continually shaking his ears, lying and moaning. Apply
the canker lotion, and give the alterative balls.

13th. The discharge considerably lessened from one ear, but that from the other has increased.
Continue the lotion and apply a seton.

22d. The dog, probably neglected at home, was sent to me. Both ears were as bad as ever.

25th. The dog is perfectly unmanageable when the lotion is poured into the ear, but submits
when an ointment is applied. Use ung. sambuci, [Symbol: ounce] j. cerus, acet. [Symbol: ounce]
j., mix well together. Continue the alteratives.

30th. Slowly amending; the whining has ceased, and the animal seldom scratches. Continue the
lotion, alteratives, and purgatives.

10th Oct.--Slowly improving. Continue the treatment.

17th. One ear well, the other nearly so.

24th. Both ears were apparently well.  Omit the lotion.

28th. One ear was again ulcerated. Applied the aerugo aeris.

31st. This has been too stimulating, and the ulceration is almost as great as at first. Return
to the ung. sambuci and cerusa acetata.

From this time to the 24th February, 1833, we continued occasionally taking out the seton,
but returning to it every two or three days; applying the canker lotion until we were driven
from it, mixing with it variable quantities of tinctura opii, having recourse to mercurial
ointment, and trying a solution of the sulphate of copper. With two or three applications we
could keep the disease at bay; but with none could we fairly remove the evil. The sulphate
of zinc, the acetate of lead, decoctions of oak bark, a very mild injection of the nitrate
of silver,--all would do good at times; but at other times we were set at complete defiance.

Another gentleman brought his dog about the same time. This was also a Newfoundland dog. He
had always been subject to mangy eruptions, and had now mange in the feet, the inside of the
ear covered with scaly eruptions, the skin red underneath, considerable thickening of the ear,
and a slight discharge from its base. A seton was inserted and a physic-ball given every second
day. The canker lotion had little good effect. Some calamine ointment, with a small portion
of calomel, was then had recourse to.

In ten days the dog had ceased to scratch himself or shake his head, and the ear was clean
and cool. The seton was removed; but the animal being confined, a little redness again appeared
in the ear, which the lotion soon removed.

At the expiration of a month he was dismissed apparently cured; but he afterwards had a return
of his old mangy complaints, which bade defiance to every mode of treatment.

Herr Maassen, V. S., Wuememburg, has lately introduced, and with much success, the use of creosote
for the cure of canker in the ear.

The first experiment was on a setter with canker in his ear. The owner of the dog had ordered
it to be hanged, as all remedies had failed in producing a cure. Herr Maassen prescribed creosoti
3ss. et spirit, vini rectificat. 3ij. This mixture was applied once in every day to the diseased
part. In a few weeks the dog was completely cured, and has since had no return of the complaint.
In a terrier, and also in three spaniels, the effect of this application was equally satisfactory.
In some cases, where the disease showed itself in a less degree, the creosote was dissolved
in water, instead of spirit of wine. It is always necessary to take away the collar while the
dog is under treatment, in order that the flap of the ear may not be injured by striking against
it.

VEGETATING EXCRESCENCES IN THE EAR. (By F. J. J. Rigot.)

Productions of this kind, which he had the opportunity of observing only once, are sometimes
united in masses, and completely close the auditive canal. The surface is granulated and black,
and there escapes from it an unctuous fetid discharge. On both sides the animal is exceedingly
susceptible of pain, and the excrescences bleed if the slightest pressure is brought to bear
upon them.

He thought it right to cut away these excrescences bodily, which he found to be composed of
a strong dense tissue, permitting much blood to escape through an innumerable quantity of vascular
openings. They were reproduced with extreme promptitude after they had been cut off or cauterized.
Some of them appeared no more after being destroyed by the nitrate of mercury.

Sometimes, however, twenty-four hours after a simple incision, not followed by cauterization,
these productions acquire an almost incredible size. It seemed, in M. Rigot's case, to be impossible
to conquer the evil, and the patient was destroyed.

ERUPTIONS IN THE EAR.

A Newfoundland dog had long been subject to mangy eruptions on the back and in the feet. They
had suddenly disappeared, and the whole of the inside of the ear became covered with scaly
eruptions. The skin was red; there was considerable thickening of the ear, and a discharge
from the base of it. The canker-lotion was used, a physic-ball given every second day, and
a seton inserted in the poll reaching from ear to ear. No apparent benefit resulted. A little
calamine ointment, to which was added one-eighth part of mercurial ointment, was then tried,
and considerable benefit immediately experienced.

The owner, however, became ultimately tired of all this doctoring, and the animal was destroyed.

A poodle had had exceedingly bad ears during several months. There was considerable discharge,
apparently giving much pain. The dog was continually shaking his head and crying.  A seton
was introduced, the canker-lotion was resorted to, and alterative and purgative medicines exhibited.
On the 29th of December the discharge from the ear ceased; but, owing to the neglect of the
servant, it soon broke out again, and there was not only much excoriation under the ear, but,
from the matting of the hair, deep ulcers formed on either side, the edges of the wound were
ragged, and the skin was detached from the muscular parts beneath. Probes were introduced on
each side, which passed down the neck and nearly met. The smell was intolerably offensive,
and the dog was reduced almost to a skeleton. I was, for the second time, sent for to see the
case. I immediately recommended that the animal should be destroyed; but this was not permitted.
I then ordered that it should daily be carefully washed, and diluted tincture of myrrh be applied
to the wounds. They showed no disposition to heal, and the dog gradually sunk under the continued
discharge and died.

VIOLENT AFFECTION OF THE EAR.

20th May, 1928.--A spaniel screamed violently, even when it was not touched, and held its head
permanently on one side, as if the muscles were contracted. The glands beneath the ear were
enlarged, but the bowels were regular; the nose was not hot; there was no cough. A warm bath
was ordered, with aperient medicine.

On the 22d she was no better. I examined the case more carefully. The left ear was exceedingly
hot and tender: she would scarcely bear me to touch it. I continued the aperient medicine,
and ordered a warm lotion to be applied, consisting of the liquor plumbi acetatis and infusion
of digitalis. She improved from the first application of it, and in a few days was quite well.
A fortnight afterwards the pain returned. The lotion was employed, but not with the same success.
A seton was then applied. She wore it only four days, when the pain completely disappeared.

I have an account in my records of the conduct of a coward, who, coming from such a breed,
was not worthy of the trouble we took with him. He was a Newfoundland dog, two years old, with
considerable enlargement, redness, and some discharge from both ears. He was sent to our hospital
for treatment. When no one was near him, he shook his head and scratched his ears, and howled
dreadfully. Many times in the course of the day he cried as if we were murdering him. We sent
him home thoroughly well, and glad we were to get rid of him.

CROPPING OF THE EARS.

I had some doubt, whether I ought not to omit the mention of this cruel practice. Mr. Blaine
very properly says, that

  "it is one that does not honour the inventor, for nature gives nothing
  in vain. Beauty and utility appear in all when properly examined, but
  in unequal degrees. In some, beauty is pre-eminent; while, in others,
  utility appears to have been the principal consideration. He adds, and it is my only excuse saying one word
  about the matter, that "custom being now fixed, directions are proper
  for its performance."

The owner of the dog commences with maiming him while a puppy. He finds fault with the ears
that nature has given him, and they are rounded or cut into various shapes, according to his
whim or caprice. It is a cruel operation. A great deal of pain is inflicted by it, and it is
often a long time before the edge of the wound will heal: a fortnight or three weeks at least
will elapse ere the animal is free from pain.

It has been pleaded, and I would be one of the last to oppose the plea, that the ears of many
dogs are rounded on account of the ulcers which attack and rend the conch; because animals
with short ears defend themselves most readily from the attacks of others: because, in their
combats with each other, they generally endeavour to lay hold of the neck or the ears; and,
therefore, when their ears are shortened, they have considerable advantage over their adversary.
There is some truth in this plea; but, otherwise, the operation of cropping is dependent on
caprice or fashion.

If the ears of dogs must be cropped, it should not be done too early. Four, five, or six weeks
should first pass; otherwise, they will grow again, and the second cropping will not produce
a good appearance. The scissors are the proper instruments for accomplishing the removal of
the ear; the tearing of the cartilages out by main force is an act of cruelty that none but
a brute in human shape would practise; and, if he attempts it, it is ten to one that he does
not obtain a good crop. If the conch is torn out, there is nothing remaining to retain the
skin round the auricular opening: it may be torn within the auditory canal, and as that is
otherwise very extensible in the dog, it is prolonged above the opening, which may then probably
be closed by a cicatrix. The animal will in this case always remain deaf, at least in one ear.
In the mean time, the mucous membrane that lines the 'meatus auditorias' subsists, the secretion
of the wax continues; it accumulates and acquires an irritating quality; the irritation which
it causes produces an augmentation of the secretion, and soon the whole of the subcutaneous
passage becomes filled, and seems to assume the form of a cord; and it finishes by the dog
continuing to worry himself, shaking his head, and becoming subject to fits.

Mr. Blaine very naturally observes, that, "it is not a little surprising that this cruel custom
is so frequently, or almost invariably, practised on pug-dogs, whose ears, if left alone to
nature, are particularly handsome and hang very gracefully. It is hardly to be conceived how
the pug's head--which is not naturally beautiful except in the eye of perverted taste--is improved
by suffering his ears to remain."

If the cropping is to be practised, the mother should have been previously removed. It is quite
erroneous, that her licking the wounded edges will be serviceable. On the contrary, it only
increases their pain, and deprives the young ones of the best balsam that can be applied--the
blood that flows from their wounds.

POLYPI IN THE EARS.

Dr. Mercer, in The Veterinarian, of July, 1844, gives an interesting account of the production
of polypi in the meatus of the ear. He considers that there are two kinds of polypi--first,
the soft, vascular and bleeding polypus, usually produced from the fibro-cartilaginous structure
of the outer half of the tube; and, secondly, the hard and cartilaginous polypus or excrescence
produced from the lining membrane of its inner half. The first is termed the haematoid polypus,
and the other the chondromatous. The dog suffering under either generally has a dull, heavy,
and rather watery eye. He moans or whines at intervals. If his master is present he feels a
relief in pressing and rubbing his aching ear against him. At other times he presses and rubs
his ear against the ground, in order to obtain a slight relief, flapping his ears and shaking
his head; the mouth being opened and the tongue protruded, and the affected ear pointing to
the ground. Then comes a sudden, and often a profuse, discharge of fetid pus. The local discharge
of pus and blood becomes daily more and more fetid, and the poor animal becomes an object of
disgust.

In the first variety of polypus, where it is practicable, the soft and vascular excrescence
should be excised with a pair of scissors or a small knife, or it may be noosed by a ligature
of silk or of silver wire, or twisted off with a pair of forceps. Immediately after its removal,
the base of the tumour should be carefully destroyed by the nitrate of silver, and this should
be repeated as long as there is any appearance of renewed growth. Any ulcer or carious condition
of the meatus should be immediately removed.

In order to protect the diseased parts, a soft cap should be used, and within the ear a little
cotton wadding may defend the ear from injury.

Dr. Mercer very properly remarks that, in the second or chondromatous variety of polypus of
the meatus, the treatment must depend upon the concomitant circumstances. If the tumour is
seated close to the membrana tympani, and has a broad and sessile base, then it cannot be excised
or noosed with any degree of success. It must therefore be treated by the daily application
of the solid nitrate of silver, applied exactly to its surface; and, in the intervals of application,
the use of any collyria may be had recourse to. If the substance of the growth be firm and
solid, and possess little sensibility, then a very speedy mode of getting rid of it is to divide
its substance with a small knife; and afterwards, by applying the solid nitrate of silver,
the tumour will soon be sloughed away.

The dog is liable to polypi in the nasal cavity, in the anus, and in the vagina, which it will
not be out of place to mention here.

The polypi of the nasal and of the anal cavities often show themselves under the form of rounded
bodies, projecting from the nose or anus. Their size and consistence are variable--sometimes
soft, tearing with the greatest facility, and bleeding at the slightest touch; at other times,
solid and covered with pituitary membrane. They are generally the result of ulcerations, wounds,
fractures, perforations of the turbinated bones, sinuses,&c. These polypous productions obstruct
the passage of the air, and more or less impede the breathing. They are best extirpated by
means of a ligature, or circular compression, on the pedicle of the polypus, and tightened
every second day.

We may discover the presence of a tumour of this nature in one of the nasal passages, when,
on putting our hand to the orifice of the nostril, there issues little or no air; or when we
sound the nostril with the finger or a probe, or examine it on a bright day.

The methods of destroying polypi in the nasal cavity vary with the texture, size, form, and
position of these excrescences. Excision with the bistoury, or with scissors, may be tried
when the polypus is near the orifice of the nostril, and particularly when it is not large
at the base. Excision should be followed by cauterization with the red-hot iron, by which a
portion of the base of the tumour is destroyed, and which could not be reached by a sharp instrument.
To succeed in these operations, it is frequently necessary to cut through the false nostril.
The edges of the wound may afterwards be united by a suture.

The ligature, or circular compression, excised immediately on the pedicle of the polypus, by
means of a wire or waxed string, and directed into the nasal cavity by means of a proper instrument,
may he tried when the polypus is deeply situated, and particularly when its base is narrow.
But, for this operation, which is difficult to perform, and which may be followed by a new
polypous production, when the base is not perfectly destroyed, we may substitute the forcible
detachment, especially when we have to act on vascular and soft excrescences.

The Italian greyhound is strangely subject to these polypi in the matrix or vagina. The reason
for it is difficult to explain.

A bitch, ten years old, was brought to the author on the 20th December, 1843, with an oval
substance, as large as a thrush's egg, occasionally protruding from the vagina. I advised that
it should be removed by means of a ligature; but the owner was afraid, and a fortnight was
suffered to pass before she was brought again. The tumour had rapidly increased; it was as
large as a pigeon's egg, considerably excoriated, and the pedicle being almost as large as
the tumour itself. The operation was now consented to. I passed a ligature as firmly round
the pedicle and as high up as I could. The bitch scarcely seemed to suffer any pain.

3d Jan.--The circulation is evidently cut off, and the tumour is assuming a thoroughly black
hue, but it appears to cause no inconvenience to the dog. I tightened the ligature. 4th. The
tumour is now completely black, considerably protruded, and apparently destitute of feeling.
I again tightened the ligature.

5th. The tumour not appearing disposed to separate, and the uterus seeming to be drawn back
by its weight, I cut off the tumour close to the ligature. Not the slightest pain seemed to
be given, and the tumour was hard and black. There was, however, a very little oozing of bloody
fluid, which continuing to the 8th, I injected a slight solution of alum into the vagina, and
three days afterwards the discharge was perfectly stopped.

[Although our author has given us several interesting and practical pages upon the diseases
of the ear and its appendages, it seems to us that the arrangement of the matter is rather
objectionable, and not sufficiently explicit to be easily comprehended by sportsmen, not before
familiar with the subject; we therefore add a concise resume or epitome of these troublesome
affections, which we trust will be found of practical utility to the reader.

SIMPLE OTORRHAEA,

or running from the ear, produced by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the external auditory
canal, is of frequent occurrence. The dog should be purged with salts, and the ear washed with
castile soap and tepid water. The following solution may be introduced several times a day:

[Symbol: Rx]  Sulphate of zinc      [Symbol: scruple] i.
              Water                 [Symbol: ounce]   i.
      Mix.                            or,

[Symbol: Rx]  Sugar of lead         [Symbol: scruple] i.
              Water                 [Symbol: ounce]   i.

If the discharge be fetid, the following may be applied often:

[Symbol: Rx]  Chloride of lime      [Symbol: drachm]   i.
              Water                               1 pint.

This affection in old dogs is very troublesome, and in most cases impossible to cure. Alum,
zinc, copper, lead, and other astringent applications may be used in powder, as a local application
in these cases. A seton and blisters will also be serviceable.

TUMORS OF THE FLAP.

A tumour, particularly in old dogs, is often seen extending from the tip of the flap even to
the base of the ear. It progresses slowly but surely, if not interfered with in its career,
and will become eventually enormously large and very painful. These tumours are most common
in old setters, Newfoundlands, and hounds.

Treatment'.--The tumour, at its commencement, may be discussed by the
application of astringent washes, as warm vinegar, water, and laudanum,
or sugar of lead. When, however, it has become more extensive, the only
remedy is opening it through its whole extent, and pressing out its
purulent content. A poultice may then be applied, and tepid fomentations
used for several days. It is often extremely difficult to heal up the
abscess, or arrest the fetid discharge that is constantly collecting: a
seton placed in the poll, in connexion with washes of a stimulating
character, will, however, effect a cure, if patiently persevered in.
    Mix.

We used on one occasion tincture of iodine with perfect success in an old and obstinate case.

CANKER IN THE EAR.

This is a rather indefinite term, as applied to the diseased ear of a dog; in fact, any malignant
corroding sore may be called a canker, no matter where situated. Some writers describe, under
the head of canker, a violent chronic otitis, attended by a purulent sanguinoid discharge.
Others understand by canker a species of erysipelatous inflammation, that makes its appearance
on the inside of the flap, and extends itself to the interior of the ear. What we understand
by canker, is an acute inflammation of the lining membrane of the ear, destroying the tympanum
or drum, and producing total deafness. The secretion is often considerable, and if not removed,
will soon fill up the cavity of the ear with a dark reddish deposit, which greatly increases
the irritation and inflammation of the parts. Mr. Blaine states that he has seen this disease
take a very malignant character, and extend its ravages over the face, destroying the soft
parts, and even penetrating through the bone into the interior of the head.

'Causes'.--This disease may he excited by any of those causes that produce a general or local
inflammatory action; exposure to cold, the presence of malignant diseases on other portions
of the body, high living, heat, confinement, or extraneous substances lodged in the organ itself.

Water-dogs are most subject to this affection, owing, no doubt, to the frequent afflux of blood
to these parts, while the remainder of the body is immersed in the water. A tendency to this
peculiar inflammation may also be produced in these animals by the action of the water upon
the delicate membranes of the ear, which occasions a violent shaking of the head and beating
of the flaps, which not unfrequently bruises them considerably. Dogs that seldom or never go
into the water are not, however, by any means exempt from the disease; as we have often seen
it developed in terriers, mastiffs, and every species of mongrel.

'Treatment'.--When the disease appears in its acute form, and without any apparent cause beyond
luxurious living and confinement, bleeding, purging, low diet, and regular exercise, together
with tepid and soothing washes, will generally relieve the inflammatory action of the parts.
The ear should be carefully and tenderly washed out with castile soap, and a small quantity
of the following solution poured into it two or three times daily, and the ear worked about
gently in the hand to secure the percolation of the fluid through its structure.

[Symbol: Rx]    Goulard's extract         [Symbol: ounce] sj.
                Water                                 1 pint.

The above mixtures should be warmed before using, otherwise the dog may resist their introduction.

When the disease from bad treatment or neglect has subsided into the chronic form, and ulceration
and suppuration have commenced, it will be necessary to pursue a somewhat different treatment,
and remain more patient, awaiting the result.

At this time the auditory passage is filled with a dark purulent secretion, which forms a thick
and irritating crust.

This deposit should first be removed by washing with castile soap and tepid water, and the
daily application of a hop poultice. If there be much inflammatory action of the parts, the
dog may be bled, and alterative or purgative balls administered. The following wash must be
used two or three times daily.

[Symbol: Rx]    Sugar of lead               [Symbol: scruple]  i.
                Laudanum                        gtt.--20 (drops.)
                Water                       [Symbol: ounce]    i.
      Mix.

As the discharge is usually very offensive, the following solution will correct its fetor,
and should be injected or poured in the ear.

If granulations have sprung up, touch them with a camel's hair brush, dipped in the following
mixture:

[Symbol: Rx]    Sulphate of copper          [Symbol: scruple] i.
                Water                       [Symbol: ounce]   i.
      Mix.

If, however, the excrescences continue to sprout from the cartilage, and the discharge continues
unabated and offensive, they may be excised and the parts brushed over with nitrate of silver
in substance. After this operation the flap often becomes extremely tender and much swollen;
poultices of poppy-heads or hops will often afford much relief.

Setons are of much value in the treatment of obstinate cases, and should be placed in the poll,
and kept open till a cure is effected, or the case abandoned.

All greasy applications to the parts should be discarded; the only one we consider allowable
would be a very nice preparation of fresh butter, alum, and laudanum, smeared over the surface
of the ulcers when very indolent and painful.

The following wash will be found very soothing in the same case:

[Symbol: Rx]   Opium                              gtt. 20.
               Gum arabic                         iss--
               Lime water              [Symbol: ounce] iv.

If the disease has progressed far enough to destroy a considerable portion of the cartilages,
and perforate the tympanum, more care is necessary in using the above washes, as the fluid
will enter the internal ear through this opening, and cause much uneasiness to the animal,
if not fatal consequences.

WOUNDS OF THE EAR.

Wounds of the flap are often occasioned by the tearing of poisonous briars, while hunting in
close cover, or in conflict with other dogs.

The former will generally heal up without much trouble, but the latter, when extensive, sometimes
two or three inches in length, by requiring uniting by one or more sutures, to prevent deformity.

WARTS.

When these little excrescences appear on the external or internal portions of the flap, they
may be taken off with the knife, and caustic applied to the wound, to induce them to heal,
and keep down further granulations.

CANKER OF THE EDGE OF THE FLAP.

When a corroding sore of this nature attacks the edges of the ear, and refuses to yield to
the application of a few stimulating washes, such as sulphate of copper, alum, borax, nitrate
of silver, &c., the diseased edges may be paired off, and the actual cautery applied to the
parts. This will frequently arrest its further progress.

POLYPUS OF THE EAR

Polypi often spring up from the interior of the ear; they may be cut off with the scissors,
or by the application of a fine wire, or horse-hair ligature. The wound should be touched with
caustic, tincture of iodine, or the actual cautery.

DISEASES OF THE EAR--MANGY EDGES

This affection generally accompanies the same disease in other portions of the body, but may
occasionally make its appearance independent of this cause. The edges of the flap become rough,
thickened, and furrowed, the itching intolerable; and the dog perpetually shaking and scratching
the head, occasions a constant oozing of blood from the wound. Smooth-baited dogs are most
subject to this disease, such as pointers, hounds, and terriers.

'Treatment'--Slightly stimulating washes, such as castile soap, alum-water, or infusion of
oak-bark, will, in the majority of cases, induce these sores to heal up. If these do not answer,
it will be necessary to use the mange ointment, keeping the animal hobbled to prevent him from
scratching. Old inveterate cases are best cured by trimming off the affected parts.--L.]

CHAPTER X--ANATOMY AND DISEASES OF THE NOSE AND MOUTH ETC.

THE ETHMOID BONES.

There is some difficulty in describing the ethmoid bones; but we shall not, however, deviate
far from the truth if we give the following account:

A great number of small hollow pedicles proceed from and form around the cribriform plate;
as they move downwards, they project into distinct vesicles or cavities, smaller and more numerous
behind, fewer in number and larger in front; and each of them not a simple cavity, but more
or less convoluted, while the long walls of those cells are of gossamer thinness, and as porous
as gauze. They even communicate, and are lined, and externally wrapped together, by the same
membrane; the whole assuming a pear-like form, attached by its base or greater extremity, and
decreasing in size as it proceeds downwards; the cells becoming fewer, and terminating at length
in a kind of apex, which passes under the superior turbinated bone, and forms a valve between
the nasal cavity and the maxillary sinuses. If to this is added, that the olfactory or first
pair of nerves abut on these cribriform plates, and pass through their minute openings, and
spread themselves over every one of these cells, we have a tolerably correct picture of this
portion of the ethmoid bones. This nerve has different degrees of development in different
animals, in proportion to their acuteness of smell. There is comparatively but little necessity
for acuteness in the horse. The ox has occasion for somewhat more, especially in the early
part of the spring, when the plants are young, and have not acquired their peculiar scent.
In the sheep it is larger, and fills the superior portion of the nasal cavity; but in the dog
it seems to occupy that cavity almost to the exclusion of the turbinated bones. It is also
much more fragile in the dog than in the ox, and the plates have a considerably thinner structure.

The ethmoid bone of the horse or the ox may be removed from its situation with little injury;
but that of the dog can scarcely be meddled with without fracture. Below it are the two turbinated
bones; but they are reduced to insignificance by the bulk of the ethmoid bone. The inferior
turbinated bone in the dog is very small, but it is curiously complicated.

The 'meatus' contains three distinct channels; and the air, loitering, as it were, in it, and
being longer in contact with the sensitive membrane by which it is lined, contributes to the
acuter sense of smell. The larger cavity is along the floor of the nasal duct. It is the proper
air-passage; and because it has this important function to discharge, it is out of the way
of violence or injury.

The 'lachrymal duct' is the channel through which the superfluous tears are conveyed to the
lower parts of the nostril. A long canal here commences, and runs down and along the maxillary
bone. It is very small, and terminates in the cuticle, in order that the highly sensitive membrane
of the nose may not be excoriated by the tears occasionally rendered acrimonious in inflammation
of the eye. The oval termination of this duct is easily brought into view by lifting the nostril.

From some occasional acrimony of the tears, the lining of this duct may be inflamed and thickened,
or some foreign body, or some unctuous matter from the ciliary glands, may insinuate itself
into the duct, and the fluid accumulates in the sac and distends it, and it bursts; or the
ulcer eats through the integument, and there is a small fistulous opening beneath the inner
canthus of the eye, or there is a constant discharge from it. It is this constant discharge
that prevents the wound from healing. In some cases the lachrymal bone is involved in the ulcerative
process and becomes carious. In the dog, and particularly in the smaller spaniel, the watery
eye, 'fistula lachrymalis', is of no unusual occurrence. The fistula will be recognised by
a constant, although perhaps slight, discharge of pus.

The structure and office of the 'velum palati', or veil of the palate, is in the horse a perfect
interposed section between the cavity of the mouth and the nose, and cutting off all communication
between them. In the dog, who breathes almost entirely through the mouth, the velum palati
is smaller; the tensor muscle, so beautifully described by Mr. Percivall, is weak, but the
circumflex one is stronger and more developed. When 'coryza' in the dog runs on to catarrh,
and the membrane of the pharynx partakes of the inflammation, the velum palati becomes inflamed
and thickened, but will not act as a perfect communication between the mouth and the nose.
When there is a defluxion from the nose, tinged by the colour of the food, and particles of
food mingle with it, we have one of the worst symptoms that can present itself, because it
proves the extent and violence of the inflammation.

In inflammatory affections of the membrane of the nose in the dog, we often observe him snorting
in a very peculiar way, with his head protruding, and the inspiration as forcible as the expiration.
An emetic will usually afford relief, or grain doses of the sulphate of copper.

THE NASAL BONES.

The nasal bones of the dog (see fig. 2, in the head of the dog, page 181) are very small, as
they are in all carnivorous animals. Instead of constituting the roof, and part of the outer
wall of the cavity, as in other animals, the nasal bones form only a portion, and a small one,
of the roof.

The 'superior maxillaries' here swell into importance, and constitute the whole of the outer
wall, and, sometimes, a part of the roof. The jaws are the weapons of offence and defence;
and as much space as possible is devoted to the insertion of those muscles that will enable
the animal to seize and to hold his prey. One of the most powerful of them, the 'masseter',
rises from the superior maxillary bone, and spreads over its whole extent: therefore, that
bone is developed, while the nasal bone is compressed into a very small space. The substitution
of a portion of cartilage, instead of bone, at the posterior part of the orbital ring, in order
to give more play for the coracoid process of the posterior maxillary, round which the temporal
bone is wrapped, is a contrivance of the same nature.

The scent of the dog is not sacrificed or impaired by the apparent diminution of the nasals;
for the cavity enlarges considerably upward, and is occupied chiefly by the 'ethmoid bone',
which, having the greater portion of nervous pulp spread on it, seems to have most to do with
the sense of smell.

The nasal bones of the dog are essentially different from those of the horse, cattle, and sheep.
They commence, indeed, as high up in the face as those of the horse, their superior extremities
being opposite to the lachrymal gland; but that commencement is an apex or point varying materially
in different breeds. They form, altogether, one sharp projection, and are received within breeds
these processes extend nearly one-third of the length of the nasals.

The superior maxillary (3.3.) takes the situation of the nasal (2.), pushes the lachrymal bone
(4.) out of its place, and almost annihilates it, reaches the frontal bone (7.) and expands
upon it, and forms with it the same denticulated suture which is to be seen in the nasal. The
action of the muscle between these bones, and for the development of which all this sacrifice
is made, is exceedingly powerful. The strength of this muscle in a large dog is almost incredible:
the sutures between these bones must possess corresponding strength; and so strong is the union
between them, that, in many old dogs, the suture between the superior maxillary and frontal
bones is nearly obliterated, and that between the nasal and frontal maxillary quite effaced.

As the nasal bones proceed downward they become somewhat wider. They unite with a long process
of the anterior maxillary for the purpose of strength, and then terminate in a singular way.
They have their apexes or points on the outer edge of the bone; and these apexes or points
are so contrived, that, lying upon, and seemingly losing themselves, on the processes of the
anterior maxillary, they complete, superiorly and posteriorly, that elliptical bony opening
into the nose which was commenced by the maxillary anteriorly and inferiorly. The nasal cavity
of the dog, therefore, and of all carnivorous animals, terminates by a somewhat circular opening,
more or less in the form of an ellipse. This bony aperture varies in size in different dogs,
and, as we should expect from what we have seen of the adaptation of structure to the situation
and wants of the animal, it is largest in those on whom we are most dependent for speed and
stoutness.

The 'olfactory', or first pair of nerves, have a double origin, namely, from the 'corpus striatum'
and the base of the 'corpus callosum'. They are prolongations of the medullary substance of
the central portion of the brain. They are the largest of the cerebral nerves. Their course
is exceedingly short; and they have not a single anastomosis, in order that the impression
made on them may be conveyed undisturbed and perfect to the brain.

The olfactory nerve is a prolongation of the substance of the brain, and it abuts upon the
cribriform bone, of which mention has been made. I will not speak of the singular cavities
which it contains, nor of their function; this belongs to the sensorial system: but its pulpy
matter has already been traced to the base of the ethmoid bone, and the under part of the septum,
and the superior turbinated bone. Although we soon lose it in the mucous membrane of the nose,
there is little doubt that in a more filmy form it is spread over the whole of the cavity,
and probably over all the sinuses of the face and head. It is, however, so mingled with the
mucous membrane, that no power of the lens has enabled us to follow it so far. It is like the
'portio mollis of the seventh pair, eluding the eye, but existing in sufficient substances
for the performance of its important functions.

We have frequent cases of 'Ozaena' in old dogs, and sometimes in those that are younger. The
discharge from the nostril is abundant and constant, and sometimes fetid. The Schneiderian
membrane, of more than usual sensibility in this animal, is exposed to many causes of irritation,
and debilitated and worn out before its time. Pugs are particularly subject to Ozaena. I scarcely
ever knew a very old pug that had it not to a greater or less degree. The peculiar depression
between the nasal and frontal bones in this breed of dogs, while it almost totally obliterates
the frontal sinuses, may narrow the air-passage at that spot, and cause greater irritation
there from the unusual rush of the air, and especially if the membrane becomes inflamed or
any foreign body insinuates itself.

Little can be done in these cases, except to encourage cleanliness about the face and nostrils.
It is, in the majority of these cases, a disease of old age, and must take its course.

A terrier uttered a continual loud stertorous sound in breathing, which could be plainly heard
in our parlour when the dog was in the hospital. The animal was evidently much oppressed and
in considerable pain. He made continual, and generally ineffectual, efforts to sneeze. When
he did succeed, a very small quantity of pus-like fluid was discharged; the dog was then considerably
relieved, but a quarter of an hour afterwards he was as bad as ever. I ordered a slight emetic
every third day. There was some relief for seven or eight hours, and then he was as bad as
ever. I could neither feel nor see any cause of obstruction. The owner became tired, and the
dog was taken away; but we could not learn what became of it.

Another terrier was occasionally brought for consultation. The dog breathed with considerable
difficulty, and occasionally snorted with the greatest violence, and bloody purulent matter
was discharged; after which he was somewhat relieved; but, in the course of a few days, the
obstruction was as great as ever. I am not aware of a single instances of this affection of
the pug being completely removed. The discharge from the nostrils of the bull-dog is often
considerable, and, once being thoroughly established, is almost as obstinate as in the pug.

OZAENA.

Ozaena, or fetid discharge from the nose, is, perhaps, the most troublesome and frequent affection
that this organ is subject to; it is attended, at first, with slight fever, swelling of the
parts, and a fetid discharge from the nostrils, which, if not corrected in the early stage
of the disease, subsides into a chronic purulent secretion, that not only weakens the dog,
but renders him peculiarly offensive. Caries and destruction of the bones of the nose will
ultimately take place.

'Causes'.--Inflammation of the lining membrane of the nose, either idiopathic, or arising from
distemper, or other morbid disturbance of the system. It may also be a symptom, or the produce,
of polypi in this organ.

'Treatment'.--In commencing the treatment of this disease, it will be necessary first to prescribe
some alterative medicines, as balls of aloes and rhubarb, and protect the animal from all severe
atmospherical vicissitudes. This precaution, in connexion with mild astringent injections into
the seat of the disorder, will generally effect a cure.

'Injections for Ozaena'.

No. 1.
[Symbol: Rx]  Sulphate of Zinc.........................grs. v to x.
              Water..............................[Symbol: ounce] i.
              Mix.

No. 2.
[Symbol: Rx]  Alum.............................[Symbol: scruple] ii.
              Water..............................[Symbol: ounce] i.
              Mix

No. 3.
[Symbol: Rx]  Chloride of Soda........................grs. v. to x.
              Water..............................[Symbol: ounce] i.
              Mix.

No. 4.
[Symbol: Rx]  Teneriffe, Madeira or Sherry wine..[Symbol: ounce] i.
              Extract of Tannin.............................grs. iv.
              Mix.

[Any of the above injections will answer a good purpose. No. 3 is particularly useful to correct
the fetidness of the discharge. When the disease is an old chronic affection, it should not
be arrested too suddenly by astringent injections; in such cases it will be better to insert
a seton in the poll, and thus keep up a drain from the system after the suppression of the
other.--L.]

THE SENSE OF SMELL.

In the dog we trace the triumph of 'olfactory power'. How indistinct must be that scent which
is communicated to, and lingers on, the ground by the momentary contact of the foot of the
hare, the fox, or the deer; yet the hound, of various breeds, recognises it for hours, and
some sportsmen have said for more than a day. He also can not only distinguish the scent of
one species of animal from another, but that of different animals of the same species. The
fox-hound, well broken-in, will rarely challenge at the scent of the hare, nor will he be imposed
upon when the crafty animal that he pursues has taken refuge in the earth, and thrusts out
a new victim before the pack.

The sense of smelling is, to a certain degree, acute in all dogs. It is a provision wisely
and kindly made, in order to guide them to their proper food, or to fit them for our service.
It may possibly be the medium through which much evil is communicated. Certain particles of
a deleterious nature may be, and doubtless are, arrested by the mucous membrane of the nose,
and there absorbed, and the constitution, to a considerable degree, becomes affected. Hence
appears the necessity for attention to ventilation, and especially to prevent the membrane
of the nose from being habitually stimulated and debilitated by the effluvia generated in a
close and hot kennel.

M. Majendie instituted some curious experiments on the sense of smelling, and he was led to
believe that it depended more on the fifth pair of nerves than on the olfactory nerve. He divided
the fifth pair, and from that moment no odour, no puncture, produced the slightest apparent
impression on the membrane of the nose. In another dog he destroyed the two olfactory nerves,
and placed some strong odours beneath the nostrils of the animal. The dog conducted himself
as he would have done in his ordinary state. Hence he concluded it probable that the olfactory
nerve was not that of smelling.

The simple fact, however, is, that there are two species of nerves here concerned--those of
common and of peculiar sensation. The olfactory nerve is the nerve of smelling, the fifth pair
is that of common sensation. They are to a certain degree necessary to each other.

'Scent'.--This leads us to the consideration of the term "scent." It expresses the odour or
effluvium which is constantly issuing from every animal, and especially when that animal is
in more than usual exercise. In a state of heat or excitement, the pores of the skin appear
relaxed, and a fluid or aqueous vapour is secreted, which escapes in small or large quantities,
adheres to the persona or substances on which it falls, and is, particularly, received on the
olfactory organs. The hound, at almost the earliest period, begins to comprehend the work which
he has to perform. The peculiar scent which his nostrils imbibe urges him eagerly to pursue
but the moment he ceases to be conscious of the presence of the effluvium, he is at a perfect loss.

Mr. Daniel, in his work on the Chase, very properly observes, that "the scent most favourable
to the hound is when the effluvium, constantly perspired from the game as it runs, is kept
by the gravity of the air at the height of his breast. It is then neither above his reach nor
does he need to stoop for it. This is what is meant when the scent is said to be breast-high."

When the leaves begin to fall, the scent does not lie well in the cover. It frequently alters
materially in the same day. This depends principally on the condition of the ground and the
temperature of the air, which should be moist but not wet. When the ground is hard and the
air dry, there will seldom be much scent. The scent rarely lies with a north or east wind.
A southerly wind without rain is the best. Sudden storms are sure to destroy the scent. A fine
sunshiny day is not good; but a warm day without sun is always a good one. If, as the morning
advances, the drops begin to hang on the bushes, the scent will not lie. During a white frost
the scent lies high, and also when the frost is quite gone; but at the time of its going off
the scent never lies. In a hard rain, if the air is mild, the scent will sometimes be very
good. A wet night often produces the best chases. In heathy countries, where the game brushes
the grass or the boughs as it goes along, the scent seldom fails. It lies best on the richest
soils; but the countries that are favourable to horses are not always so to hounds. The morning
usually affords the best scent, and the game is then least able to escape. The want of rest,
added perhaps to a full belly, gives the hounds a decided superiority over an early-found fox;
and the condition of the ground and the temperature of the air are circumstances of much importance.

Such are the results of the best observations on scent; but, after all, we have much to learn
concerning it. Many a day that predicated to be a good one for scent has turned out a very
bad one, and 'vice versa'. An old or experienced sportsman, knowing this, will never presume
to make sure of his scent.

We shall be forgiven if we pursue this subject a little at length.

There is not only a constant appropriation of new matter to repair the losses that animals
are continually sustaining, but there is a constant elaboration of gaseous or fluid matter
maintaining the balance of the different systems, and essential to the continuance of life.
This effluvium, as the animal moves from place to place, is attracted and detained for a while
by the substances with which it comes into contact, or it remains floating in the atmosphere.

There is a peculiar smell or scent belonging to each individual, either generally or under
peculiar circumstances.

The sportsman takes advantage of this; and, as most species of dogs possess great acuteness
of olfactory power, they can distinguish, or are readily taught to distinguish, not only the
scent of the hare from that of the fox, but that of the hare or fox which they are pursuing
from that of half a dozen others that may be started during the chase.

The dogs that are selected for this purpose are those the conformation of whose face and head
gives ample room for the development of the olfactory apparatus, and these are the different
species of hounds; but a systematic education, and too often a great deal of unnecessary cruelty,
is resorted to, in order to make them perfect in their work. The distinction between the scent
of the fox and that of the hare is soon learned by the respective packs; and, when it is considered
that the hunted hare is perspiring at every pore, and her strength being almost exhausted,
she is straining every limb to escape from her pursuers, the increasing quantity of vapour
which exudes from her will prevent every other newly started animal from being mistaken for her.

It has been well observed that when the atmosphere is loaded with moisture, and rain is at
hand, the gas is speedily dissolved and mingles with the surrounding air. A storm dissipates
it at once, while the cessation of the rain is preceded by the return and increased power of
scent. A cold, dry easterly wind condenses and absorbs it, and this is even more speedily and
irretrievably done by superabundant moisture. On fallows and beaten roads the scent rarely
lies well, for there is nothing to detain it, and it is swept away in a moment; while over
a luxuriant pasture, or by the hedge-row, or on the coppice, it lingers, clinging to the grass
or the bushes. In a sunshiny day the scent is seldom strong; for too much of it is evaporated
by the heat. The most favourable period is a soft southerly wind without rain, the scent being
of the same temperature and gravity with the atmosphere. Although it spreads over the level,
it rises not far above the ground, and, being 'breast high', enables the hound, keeping his
muzzle in the midst of it, to run at his greatest speed. The different manners or attitudes
in which the dog runs afford pleasing and satisfactory illustrations of the nature of the scent.
Sometimes they will be seen galloping with their noses in the air, as if their game had flown
away, and, an hour or two afterwards, every one of them will have his muzzle on the ground.
The specific gravity of the atmosphere has changed, and the scent has risen of fallen in proportion.

A westerly wind stands next to a southerly one, for a hunting morning. This is all simple enough,
and needs not the mystification with which it has been surrounded. A valuable account of this
may be found in Johnson's Shooting Companion, a work that is justly and highly approved.

Mr. Delme Radcliffe has also, in his splendid work on "the noble science," some interesting
remarks on the scent of hounds. He says that there is an idiosyncracy, a peculiarity, in their
several dispositions. Some young hounds seem to enter on their work instinctively. From their
first to their last appearance in the field they do no wrong. Others, equally good, will take
no notice of anything; they will not stoop to any scent during the first season, and are still
slack at entering even at the second; but are ultimately distinguished at the head of the pack;
and such usually last some seasons longer than the more precocious of the same litter.

THE TONGUE.

The manner of drinking is different in the different animals. The horse, the ox, and the sheep
do not plunge their muzzles into the water, but bring their lips into contact with it and sip
it gradually. The dog, whose tongue is longer, plunges it a little way into the fluid, and,
curving its tip and its edges, laps, in the language of Johnson, with a "quick reciprocation
of the tongue." The horse sucks the water that is placed before him, the dog laps it; and both
of them are subject to inflammation of the tongue, to enlargement of that organ, and to a considerable
or constant flow of saliva over it.

Extending from the base to the tip of the tongue there is on either side a succession of tendons,
which help to retain the tongue in the mouth, and to curve the edge of it, so as to convey
the food or the water to the posterior part of the mouth. These all spring from one central
cord, and ramify over the membrane of the tongue. On opening the mouth, and keeping it open
by means of two pieces of tape, one behind the upper canine teeth, and the other behind the
lower ones, and drawing the tongue from the mouth and exposing its under surface, a cuticular
fold or ridge will present itself, occupying a middle line from the base of the tongue to its
very point. If this is opened with a lancet, a minute fibrous cord will be exposed through
its whole extent. It is the cord which governs the motions of the tongue.

This cord is, sometimes, foolishly and uselessly detached from its adhesions, so far as we
can effect it, and drawn forward with a tenaculum and divided. There is one abominable course
pursued in effecting this. The violence used in stripping down the tendon is so great, and
the lacerated fibrous substance is put so much on the stress, and its natural elasticity is
so considerable, that it recoils and assumes the appearance of a dying worm, and the dog is
said to have been wormed. For the sake of humanity, as well as to avoid the charge of ignorance,
it is to be hoped that this practice will speedily cease.

THE BLAIN.

The blain is a vesicular enlargement on the lateral and under part of the tongue in horses,
oxen, and dogs, which, although not of unfrequent occurrence, or peculiarly fatal result, has
not been sufficiently noticed by veterinary authors. In the horse and the dog it is often unaccompanied
by any previous indisposition, or by other disease; but suddenly there is a copious discharge
of saliva, at first limpid and without smell, but soon becoming purulent, bloody, and exceedingly
fetid. On examination, the tongue is found apparently enlarged. It is elevated from its base
between the maxillary bones, and on the side and towards the base of it are seen large vesicles,
pellucid, red, livid, or purple; and, if the discharge is fetid, having near their bases ulcers,
irregular, unhealthy, and gangrenous.

In the horse and the dog the progress of the disease is slow, and seldom extends beyond the
sides of the tongue. The vesicles are not of such magnitude as to interfere with respiration,
and the ulcers are neither many nor foul.

In cattle it is sadly different. The vesicles attain an enormous size. They quickly break and
form deep ulcerations, which are immediately succeeded by other vesicles still larger. The
whole membrane of the mouth becomes affected; the inflammation and swelling extend to the cellular
substance of the neighbouring parts, and the head and neck are considerably, and sometimes
enormously, enlarged; the respiratory passages are obstructed; the animal breathes with the
greatest difficulty, and is, in some cases, literally suffocated.

The primary seat of blain, is the cellular substance beneath the integument of the part. As
the sublingual glands stretch along the under part of the tongue, and their ducts open on the
side of the fraenum, it is possible that this disease may proceed from, or be connected with,
obstruction or inflammation of these ducts. Dissection, however, has not proved this; and the
seat of the disease, when the swellings are first discovered, is chiefly the cellular tissue
between the integument and the lateral parts of the tongue, and also that between the membrane
of the mouth and the sublingual glands.

'Post-mortem' examination shows intense disease: the small intestines are highly inflamed with
red and black patches, which are also found in the c3/4cum, colon, and rectum.

The blain is more frequent in spring and summer than at other seasons of the year. These are
the times when the animal is debilitated by the process of moulting, and is then more than
usually disposed to inflammatory complaints. It is usually an epidemic disease. Many cases
of it occur about the same time in certain districts, and over a great extent of country. When
it appears in towns, the country is rarely exempt from it. I am not prepared lo say that it
is contagious either in the horse or the dog. I have not seen any instance of it. At all events,
it is not so virulent in these animals as it is in cattle.

The vesicles should be freely lanced from end to end. There will not, perhaps, be much immediate
discharge; for the vesicle will be distended by a substance imperfectly organised, or of such
a glassy or inspissated nature as not readily to escape. It will, however, soon disappear;
and in four-and-twenty hours, in the majority of cases, the only vestige of the disease will
be an incision, not, perhaps, looking very healthy, but that will soon become so and heal.
If there have been any previous ulcerations, or the slightest fetor, the mouth should he frequently
washed with a diluted solution of the chloride of lime; one part of the saturated solution,
and eleven of water. This will act as a powerful and useful stimulus to the foul and indolent
ulcer. When all unpleasant smell is removed, the mouth should be bathed with a lotion composed
of equal parts of tincture of myrrh and water, or half an ounce of alum dissolved in a quart
of water, and two ounces of the tincture of catechu added to the solution. I do not recollect
a case in the horse or dog, in which these medicines were not employed with advantage. In cattle,
before there has been fetor attending the discharge, or the constitution has been materially
affected, these simple means will perfectly succeed.

If the practitioner is consulted somewhat too late, when the constitution has become affected,
and typhoid fever has ensued, he should still lance the tumours, and apply the chloride of
lime and the tincture of myrrh, and give a gentle aperient. He should endeavour to rouse and
support the system by tonic medicines, as gentian and colomba with ginger, adding to two drachms
of the first two, and one drachm of the last, half an ounce of nitre; but he should place most
dependence on nourishing food. Until the mouth is tolerably sound, it is probable that the
animal will not be induced to eat; but it will occasionally sip a little fluid, and, therefore,
gruel should be always within its reach. More should occasionally be given, as thick as it
will flow, with a spoon or small horn.

[INFLAMMATION OF THE TONGUE.

Glossitis or inflammation of the tongue is not an unfrequent disease, but is occasionally met
with in its simple form or in connexion with inflammatory affections of the throat. Under all
and any circumstances this affection must be considered a dangerous malady, as it not unfrequently
proves fatal in the course of a few hours from suffocation, occasioned by the swelling of the
organ itself and other portions of the throat. The disease comes on suddenly with fever, heat,
swelling and redness of the tongue. The tongue protrudes from the mouth and exhibits a dry,
hot, inflammatory appearance, the respiration is hurried, and the animal expresses great uneasiness,
and constant desire to lap water, which he can with difficulty accomplish. If not arrested,
the inflammation may terminate in suppuration, by which process the swelling is relieved, and
a cure often effected.

'Causes'.--Independent of the natural agents before referred to in the production of inflammatory
affections, there are some few causes to which we can especially attribute this disease.  Direct
injuries done to the member itself, either by wounds or stings of insects, the taking of poisonous
or irritating substances into the mouth, want of water while hunting in hot weather, &c.

Several years ago we witnessed the death of a very valuable pointer, suffering from this disease
produced by poison maliciously administered. He was affected so suddenly and violently with
inflammation of the throat and tongue that his owner, Mr. F--, was lead to believe that a bone
had lodged in the throat, which was the occasion of all the trouble. After proper examination
and considerable delay, he was forced to abandon this erroneous idea, but not in time to save
the poor animal, who soon died from strangulation or congestion of the lungs. This valuable
dog might have been saved if promptly and energetically treated.

The stings of wasps or bees may also produce this affection.

'Treatment'.--Nothing can be done with this malady without the use of the lancet, by which
six or eight ounces of blood should be drawn at the commencement of the disease. If the tongue
is much swollen and very tender, longitudinal incisions should be made in it, extending as
far back as possible, and their bleeding assisted by sponging the mouth out with tepid water.
Astringent applications may then be used as washes, such as alum water, strong vinegar, infusions
of oak bark or solutions of nitrate of silver, four or six grains to the ounce, to be applied
once or twice a day. A large blister may also be placed under the throat, and when the inflammation
is sufficiently reduced to allow the introduction of articles into the stomach, a powerful
purge of aloes should be given.  Nothing, however, can be done without copious bleeding.--L.]

THE LIPS

of the dog discharge, with somewhat less efficiency, the same office as in the horse, cattle,
and sheep; and are usefully employed in gathering together the food, and conveying it to the
mouth. The lips also secrete the saliva, a fluid that is indispensably necessary for the proper
comminution of the food.

Swellings on the inside of the cheek or upper lip, and extending nearly to the angle of the
lip, are of frequent occurrence. A superficial sore spreads over it, slightly covered by a
yellowish, mattery pellicle; and on the teeth, and extending down the gums, there is a deposition
of hardened tartarous matter, which is scaled off with a greater or less degree of difficulty.
It must be removed, or the sore will rapidly spread over the cheek. A lotion of equal parts
of tincture of myrrh and water, with a few drops of the tincture of cantharides, will be usually
sufficient to cause the swelling to subside, and the pellicle to be detached. The lip, however,
will generally remain slightly thickened. A little soreness will sometimes return, but be easily
reduced.

THE TEETH

next claim attention.

According to the dentition of the dog by M. Girard and Linnaeus, the following is the acknowledged
formula:

Incisors, 5/6; Canines, (1-1)/(1-1); Molars, (6-6)/(7-7),=42.

The following cuts exhibit the front teeth of the dog in various stages of growth and decay:

[Seven illustrations, shown in full in the html version of this text.]

The full-grown dog has usually 20 teeth in the upper, and 22 in the lower jaw, with two small
supernumerary molars. All of them, with the exception of the tushes, are provided with a bony
neck covered by the gums, and separating the body of the tooth from the root. The projecting
portion of the teeth is more or less pointed, and disposed so as to tear and crush the food
on which the dog lives. They are of a moderate size when compared with those of other animals,
and are subject to little loss of substance compared with the teeth of the horse. In most of
them, however, there is some alteration of form and substance, both in the incisors and the
tushes; but this depends so much on the kind of food on which the animal lives, and the consequent
use of the teeth, that the indication of the age, by the altered appearance of the mouth, is
not to be depended upon after the animal is four or five years old. The incisor teeth are six
in number in each jaw, and are placed opposite to each other. In the lower jaw, the pincers,
or central teeth, are the largest and the strongest; the middle teeth are somewhat less; and
the corner teeth the smallest and the weakest. In the upper jaw, however, the corner teeth
are much larger than the middle ones; they are farther apart from their neighbours, and they
terminate in a conical point curved somewhat inwards and backwards.

As long as the teeth of the full-grown dog are whole, and not injured by use, they have a healthy
appearance, and their colour is beautifully white. The surface of the incisors presents, as
in the ruminants, an interior and cutting edge, and a hollow or depression within. This edge
or border is divided into three lobes, the largest and most projecting forming the summit or
point of the tooth. The two lateral lobes have the appearance of notches cut on either side
of the principal lobe; and the union of the three resembles the 'fleur de lis', which, however,
is in the process of time effaced by the wearing out of the teeth. (Figs. 3 and 4.)

While the incisor teeth are young, they are flattened on their sides, and bent somewhat backwards,
and there is a decided cavity, in which a pulpy substance is enclosed. This, however, is gradually
contracted as the age of the dog increases.

M. F. Cuvier speaks of certain supernumerary teeth occasionally developed in each of the jaws.
There is much irregularity accompanying them; and they have even been supposed to have extended
to seven or eight in number.

THE INDICATIONS OF AGE.

The dog displays natural indications of age. The hair turns gray to a certain extent as in
the human being. This commences about the eyes, and extends over the face, and weakens the
sight; and, at ten years old, or earlier, in the majority of dogs, this can scarcely be mistaken.
At fifteen or sixteen years the animal is becoming a nuisance, yet he has been known to linger
on until he has reached his two-and-twentieth year.

Among the diseases from which the dog suffers, there are few of more frequent occurrence than
decayed teeth, especially in towns, or in the habitations of the higher classes of society:
the carious teeth, in almost every case, becoming insufferably fetid, or  so loose as to prevent
mastication; or an immense accumulation of tartar growing round them.

The course which the veterinary surgeon pursues is an exceedingly simple one. If any of the
teeth are considerably loose, they must be removed. If there is any deposit of tartaric acid,
it must be got rid of by means of the proper instruments, not very different from those which
the human surgeon employs. The teeth must be perfectly cleaned, and every loose one taken away.
Without this the dog will be an almost insufferable nuisance. The decayed and loose teeth being
removed, chlorinated lime diluted with 15 or 20 times its bulk of water should be applied to
the gums. By the use of this the ulcers will quickly heal; the fetor will be removed, and the
deposition of the tartar prevented. Mr. Blaine first introduced the chlorinated lime for the
accomplishment of these purposes.

Two little histories out of a great number will sufficiently illustrate these cases. A terrier
had scarcely eaten during more than a week. He dropped his meat after attempting to chew it,
and the breath was very offensive. Several of the teeth were loose, and the rest were thickly
encrusted with tartar. The gums had receded from the teeth, and were red, sore, and ulcerated.

I removed all the loose teeth; for experience had taught me that they rarely or never became
again fixed. I next, with the forceps and knife, cleaned the others, and ordered the diluted
chlorinated lime to be alternated with tincture of myrrh and water. The extraction of the loose
teeth, and the removal of the tartar from those that were sound, occupied a full hour; for
the dog resisted with all his might. He, however, soon began to eat; the lotions were continued;
and five months afterwards, the mouth of the dog was not in the slightest degree offensive.

An old dog should not be quite abandoned. A pug had only four teeth remaining beside the canines.
They were all thickly covered with tartar, and two of them were very loose. The gums and lips
were in a dreadfully cankerous state, and the dog was unable to eat. All that he could do was
to lap a little milk or broth.

I extracted the two loose teeth, cleaned the others, and ordered a lotion of equal parts of
tincture of myrrh and water to be applied.

'13th August', 1842.--A very considerable discharge of pus was observed, with blood from the
mouth, apparently proceeding from the cavity whence one of the teeth had been extracted. The
dog is exceedingly thirsty, and walks round and round the water-dish, but is afraid to lap.
He has not eaten for two days. Use the lotion as before, and force him with strong soup.

'15th.' The dog has not voluntarily eaten, but is still forced with soup. He is very costive.
Give two grains of calomel and an equal quantity of antimonial powder.

'18th.' He has eaten a very little, but gets thinner and weaker. Continue the lotion.

'27th.' The ulcers are nearly healed, and the discharge of pus has ceased.

'31st.' The mouth is clean, the gums are healed, and there is no longer anything offensive
about the dog.

THE LARYNX

is placed at the top of the windpipe, the exit from the lungs, and is also connected with the
Schneiderian membrane. At its upper part is the epiglottis, the main guard against the passage
of the food into the respiratory tubes, and, at the same time, of the instrument of the voice.
It consists of five cartilages united together by a ligamentous substance, and, by distinct
and perfect articulations, adapting itself to every change of the respiratory process and the
production of the voice.

At the base is the 'cricoid cartilage,' the support and bond of union of the rest. Above are
the 'arytenoid cartilages,' resting on the 'chorda vocales' and influencing their action. The
'epiglottis' is placed at the extremity of the opening into the windpipe, with its back opposed
to the pharynx, so that when a pellet of food passes from the pharynx in its way to the oesophagus,
the epiglottis is applied over the glottis, and by this means closes the aperture of the larynx,
and prevents any portion of the food from passing into it. The food having passed over the
epiglottis, that cartilage, from its elastic power, again rises and resumes its former situation.

The 'thyroid cartilage' envelopes and protects all the rest, and particularly the lining membrane
of the larynx, which vibrates from the impulse of the air that passes. The vibrations spread
in every direction until they reach the delicate membrane of the tympanum of the ear. That
membrane responds to the motion without, and the vibration is carried on to the pulp of the
auditory nerve, deep in the recesses of the ear. The loudness of the tone--its acuteness or
graveness--depends on the force of the expired air and the shortening or lengthening of the
chord. Hence it is, that the tone of the bark of the dog, or the neighing of the horse, depends
so much on the age or size of the animal. Thus we compare the shrill bark of the puppy with
the hoarse one of the adult dog; the high-toned but sweet music of the beagle with the fuller
and lower cry of the fox-hound, and the deep but melodious baying of the mastiff. I may, perhaps,
be permitted to add to these, the whinnying of the colt and the neighing of the horse.

Each animal has his peculiar and intelligible language. He who has long lived among them will
recognise the tone of delight at meeting, rising into and terminating in a sharper sound; the
strong and elevated tone when they are calling to or challenging each other at a distance;
the short expression of anger--the longer, deeper, hoarser tone of fear; the murmur almost
as deep, but softer, of habitual attachment, and the elevated yet melodious token of sudden
recognition. I could carry on a conversation with a dog that I once possessed for several minutes,
and one perfectly intelligible to both.

Inflammation of the larynx is a frequent and dangerous complaint. It usually commences with,
and can scarcely be distinguished from, catarrh, except that it is attended by cough more violent
and painful, and the dog expectorates considerably. Acute laryngitis is not so frequent an
occurrence; but there is much danger attending it. Blood must be abstracted to as great an
extent as the pulse will bear, or until it becomes evidently affected. To this must follow
digitalis, nitre, tartar emetic, and aloes, and to these must be added a powerful blister.
A considerable quantity is effused and organized, the membrane is thickened, perhaps permanently
so, and the whole of the submucous cellular tissue becomes oedematous.

The dog is subject to sudden attacks of 'angina'. It has been imagined, from the appearances
that are manifested, that some strange body is arrested in the windpipe or the throat. There
is no dread of water or of the usual fluids; the dog will lap once or twice from that fluid
which is placed before him, and turns slowly away from it; and this circumstance gives rise
to what is called dumb madness. The dog barks in a particular manner, or rather howls like
a rabid dog: he is out of spirits, has a strange, anxious, altered countenance, and is alternately
cold and hot. Frequently added to this is redness of the buccal and nasal membranes. He refuses
all solid food, and either will not drink or finds it difficult to swallow anything. His mouth
is generally open, and contains a spumy matter exhaling an offensive smell. His tongue, charged
with a great quantity of saliva, protrudes from his mouth, and the submaxillary glands are
enlarged. To these appearances are added a yellow tint of the eyes, constipation, and a small
quantity of urine, surcharged with a deep yellow colour. At this period the disease has generally
reached a considerable degree of virulence. Often the inflammation extends to the back part
of the mouth and larynx; and in this last case the respiration is attended by a hoarse, hissing
kind of sound.

The progress of the disease is rapid, and, in a few days, it reaches its highest degree of
intensity. It is always fatal when it is intense; and, when its influence is widely spread,
it is a very dangerous complaint.

Somewhat rarely the subjects of it recover. After death we find great redness and injection
in all the affected nervous surfaces, and indications of abscesses in which suppuration was
not fully established.

FOREIGN ARTICLES IN THE THROAT

When a substance, such as a bone, has become impacted in the throat, the better plan is to
attempt to push it downwards into the stomach, as there is but little hope of extracting it.

[A portion of sponge may be securely tied on the end of a piece of ratan, whalebone, or other
flexible material, and inserted in the mouth, may be carried over the tongue down the throat
against the foreign article, which may then be gently pushed before it. If this should not
succeed, and the substance appears firmly imbedded in the throat, an incision may be made in
the oesophagus and the bone extracted.--L.]

BRONCHOCELE OR GOITRE

in the dog is almost daily forced upon our notice. If a spaniel or pug-puppy is mangy, pot-bellied,
rickety, or deformed, he seldom fails to have some enlargement of the thyroid gland. The spaniel
and the pug are most subject to this disease. The jugular vein passes over the thyroid gland;
and, as that substance increases, the vein is sometimes brought into sight, and appears between
the gland and the integuement, fearfully enlarged, varicose, and almost appearing as if it
were bursting. The trachea is pressed upon on either side, and the oesophagus by the left gland,
and there is difficulty of swallowing. The poor animal pants distressingly after the least
exertion, and I have known absolute suffocation ensue. In a few cases ulceration has followed,
and the sloughing has been dreadful, yet the gland has still preserved its characteristic structure.
Although numerous abscesses have been formed in the lower part of it, and there has been considerable
discharge, viscid or purulent, the upper part has remained as hard and almost as scirrhous
as before.

'Cause of Goitre'.--In many cases, this enlargement of the thyroid glands is plainly connected
with a debilitated state of the constitution generally, and more particularly with a disposition
to rickets. I have rarely seen a puppy that had had mange badly, and especially if mange was
closely followed by distemper, that did not soon exhibit goitre. Puppies half-starved, and
especially if dirtily kept, are thus affected; and it is generally found connected with a loose
skin, flabby muscles, enlarged belly, and great stupidity. On the other hand, I have seen hundreds
of dogs, to all appearance otherwise healthy, in whom the glands of the neck have suddenly
and frightfully enlarged. I have never been able to trace this disease to any particular food,
whether solid or liquid; although it is certainly the frequent result of want of nutriment.

Some friends, of whom I particularly inquired, assured me, that it is not to any great extent
prevalent in those parts of Derbyshire where goitre is oftenest seen in the human being.

It is periodical in the dog. I have seen it under medical treatment, and without medical treatment,
perfectly disappear for a while, and soon afterwards, without any assignable cause, return.
There is a breed of the Blenheim spaniel, in which this periodical goitre is very remarkable;
the slightest cold is accompanied by enlargement of the thyroid gland, but the swelling altogether
disappears in the course of a fortnight. I am quite assured that it is hereditary; no one that
is accustomed to dogs can doubt this for a moment.

'Treatment'.--I am almost ashamed to confess how many inefficient and cruel methods of treatment
I many years ago adopted. I used mercurial friction, external stimulants, and blisters; I have
been absurd enough to pass setons through the tumours, and even to extirpate them with the
knife. The mercury salivated without any advantage, the stimulants and the blisters aggravated
the evil; the setons did so in a tenfold degree, so that many dogs were lost in the irritative
fever tint was produced; and, although the gland, when directed out, could not be reproduced,
yet I have been puzzled with the complication of vessels around it, and in one case lost my
patient by hemorrhage, which I could not arrest.

When the power of iodine in the dispersion of glandular tumours was first spoken of, I eagerly
tried it for this disease, and was soon satisfied that it was almost a specific. I scarcely
recollect a case in which the glands have not very materially diminished; and, in the decided
majority of cases, they have been gradually reduced to their natural size. I first tried an
ointment composed of the iodine of potassium and lard, with some, but not a satisfactory result.
Next I used the tincture of iodine, in doses of from five to ten drops, and with or without
any external local application; but I found, at length, that the simple iodine, made into pills
with powdered gum and syrup, effected almost all that I could wish. It is best to commence
with the eighth of a grain for a small dog, and rapidly increase it to half a grain, morning
and night. A larger dog may take from a quarter of a grain to a grain. In a few instances,
loss of appetite and slight emaciation have been produced; but then, the medicine being suspended
for a few days, no permanent ill effect has ever followed the exhibition of iodine.

PHLEGMONOUS TUMOUR.

A phlegmonous tumour under the throat, and accompanied by constitutional disturbance, with
the exception of there being little or no cough, often appears in the dog. Comparing the size
of the animals, these tumours are much larger than in either the horse or ox; but they are
situated higher up the face, and do not press so much upon the windpipe, nor is there any apparent
danger of suffocation from them. The whole head, however, is sometimes enlarged to a frightful
degree, and the eyes are completely closed. More than a pint of fluid has sometimes escaped
from a middle-sized dog at the first puncture of the tumour.

The mode of treatment is, to stimulate the part, in order to expedite the suppuration of the
tumour, and to lance it freely and deeply, as soon as matter is evidently formed. The wound
should be dressed with tincture of aloes, and a thick bandage placed round the neck, to prevent
the dog from scratching the part, which often causes dreadful laceration.

These tumours in the throat of the dog are not always of a phlegmonous character. They are
cysts, sometimes rapidly formed, and of considerable size, and filled with a serous or gelatinous
fluid. This membrane may be described, as it is divided, into the main circular muscle, with
its central tendinous expansion forming the lower part, and two appendices, or 'crura,' as
they are termed from their peculiar shape, constituting its superior portion. We trace the
fleshy origin of the grand muscle, laterally and inferiorly, commencing from the cartilage
of the eighth rib anteriorly, and following somewhat closely, as we proceed backward, the union
of the posterior ribs with their cartilages, excepting, however, the two last. The attachment
is peculiarly strong. It is denticulated: it encloses the whole of the latter and inferior
part of the chest as far as the sternum, where it is connected with the ensiform cartilage.

The diaphragm is the main agent, both in ordinary and extraordinary respiration. In its quiescent
state it presents its convex surface towards the thorax, and its concave one towards the abdomen.
The anterior convexity abuts upon the lungs; the posterior concavity is occupied by some of
the abdominal viscera.

Thus far we have described the diaphragm as found in the horse, ox, and sheep. There is some
difference with regard to the dog. The muscular part of the diaphragm is thick and strong in
every species of dog, while the aponeurotic expansion is comparatively smaller. From the smaller
expanse of the thorax of the dog, and the consequent little expansion of the diaphragm, the
action, although occasionally rapid and violent--for he is an animal of speed--is not so extensive,
and more muscle and less tendon may be given to him, not only without detriment, but with evident
advantage. Therefore, although we have occasional rupture of the heart of the dog, oftener
perhaps than in the horse, there is no case of rupture of the diaphragm on record.

The cavity of the thorax is lined by a membrane, termed pleura, which covers the surface of
the lungs.

The lungs on either side are enclosed in a separate and perfect bag, anil each lung has a distinct
pleura. The heart lies under the left lung; and, more perfectly to cut off all injurious connexion
or communication of disease between the lungs and the heart, the heart is enclosed in a distinct
pleura or bag, termed the 'pericardium'. This membrane closely invests the heart, supports
it in its situation, prevents too great dilatation when it is gorged with blood, and too violent
action when it is sometimes unduly stimulated. Notwithstanding the confinement of the pericardium,
the heart, when under circumstances of unusual excitation, beats violently against the ribs,
and, were it not thus tied down, would often bruise and injure itself, and cause inflammation
in the neighbouring parts.

The 'heart' is composed of four cavities; two above, called 'auricles', from their shape, and
two below, termed 'ventricles', occupying the bulk of the heart. In point of fact, there are
two hearts--the one on the left side propelling the blood through the frame, and the other
on the right side conveying it through the pulmonary system; but, united in the manner in which
they are, their junction contributes to their mutual strength, and both circulations are carried
on at the same time.

The beating of the heart in the dog is best examined behind the elbow on the left side. The
hand, applied flat against the ribs, will give the number and character of the pulsations.
The pericardium, or outer investing membrane of the heart, is frequently liable to inflammation,
milked by a quickened and irregular respiration, and an action of the heart, bounding at an
early period of the disease, but becoming scarcely recognisable as the fluid increases. The
patient is then beginning gradually to sink. A thickening of the substance of the heart is
occasionally suspected, and, on the other hand, an increased capacity of the cavities of the
heart; the parietes being considerably thinner, and the frame of the animal emaciated.

The pulse of the greater part of our domestic animals has been calculated by Mr. Vatel, in
his excellent work on Veterinary Pathology, to be nearly as follows:

In the horse,     from   32 to     38  pulsations in a minute.
  "  ox or cow,    "     35  "     49             "
  "  ass,          "     48  "     54             "
  "  sheep,        "     70  "     79             "
  "  goat,        from   72  to    76  pulsations in a minute.
  "  dog,          "     90  "    100             "
  "  cat,          "    110  "    120             "
  "  rabbit,       .    .         120             "
  "  guinea-pig,   .    .         140             "
  "  crow,         .    .         136             "
  "  duck,         .    .         136             "
  "  hen,          .    .         140             "
  "  heron,        .    .         200             "

The pulse of the dog may be easily ascertained by feeling at the heart or the inside of the
knee, and it varies materially, according to the breed, as well as the size of the animal.
This is very strikingly the case with some of the sporting dogs, with whom the force as well
as the rapidity of the pulse vary materially according to the character and breed of the dog.

There is, occasionally, in the dog as in the human being, an alteration of the quantity, as
well as of the quality, of the blood. 'Anaemia' is the term used to designate a deficiency
in quantity; 'plethora' is the opposite state of it. M. D'Arbor relates a very curious account
of the former:

Two dogs were sent into the hospital of the veterinary school at Lyons. They did not appear
to suffer any considerable pain. Their skin and mucous membranes that were visible had a peculiar
appearance. They had also comparatively little power over their limbs; so little, indeed, that
they rested continually on one side, without the ability to shift their posture. When they
were placed on their feet, their limbs gave way, and they fell the moment they were quitted.
In despite of the care that was taken of them, they died on the second day.

Incisions were made through the skin, but in opening them no blood flowed. The venae cavae
themselves did not contain any--there were only two clots of blood in the cavities of their
hearts. One of them, of the size of a small nutmeg, occupied the left ventricle; the other,
which was still smaller, was found at the base of the right ventricle. The chest of one of
them enclosed a small quantity of serosity; a similar fluid was between the dura mater and
the arachnoid membrane, and the same was the case in the larger ventricles of the encephalon.
The other viscera did not offer anything remarkable, except the paleness and flaccidity of
their tissue. The great fatigues of the chase, and the immersion of these animals in water
at the time that they were very much heated, appeared to have been the causes of this singular
disease. In the report of the labours of the School of Alfort, in the year 1825, the same anaemia
was remarked in two dogs that died there; one of them had lately undergone a considerable hemorrhage,
and in the other anaemia had developed itself spontaneously.

It is in fact among dogs that this extreme anaemia has been principally observed, and is ordinarily
fatal. It has been remarked by M. Crusal in a bullock attacked with gastro-enteritis.

This disease, according to M. Vatel, is generally the symptom of a chronic malady, or the instantaneous
effect of an excessive hemorrhage. It is rarely primary. The extreme discoloration of the tissues,
and of the mucous membrane more particularly, the disappearance of the subcutaneous blood-vessels,
and the extreme feebleness of the animal, are the principal symptoms. There also often exists
considerable swelling of the limbs.

The following singular case of a wound penetrating into the chest and pericardium of a dog,
is recorded by Professor Delafond:

A mastiff dog fighting with another was stabbed in the chest by the master of his antagonist.
Five hours after the accident, the Professor was sent for. On the exterior of the sternum was
a laceration an inch and a half in length, covered by a spumy fluid, from the centre of which
was heard a gurgling noise, showing that a wound had penetrated into the sac of the pleura.
The respiration was quick, and evidently painful; the beating of the heart was also strong
and precipitate. The finger being introduced into the wound, penetrated between the fourth
and fifth rib on the left side. "Having arrived at the pleuritic sac," says the Professor,
"I gently tapped the surface of the lung, in order to assure myself that it was not injured;
my finger penetrated into the pericardium, and the point of the heart beat against it."

He bathed the wound with a little diluted wine, and brought the edges of it as near together
as he could, and confined them with a suture, administering a mild aperient.

On the following day, the animal walked slowly about, seeking for something to eat; he gave
him some milk. On changing the dressing, he tried whether he could again introduce any sound
into the wound; but it would only penetrate a very little way; indeed, re-union by adhesion
had already taken place.

On the fifth day, the animal was in good spirits; the wound had a healthy red appearance, and
all tended to a speedy cure.

On the eighth day he was sent home to his master, a distance of two leagues from his house.
He saw the dog eighteen months afterwards, and he was as eager as ever after his game.

The following is a case of rupture of the heart:--A black pointer, of the Scotch breed, had
every appearance of good health, except that she frequently fell into a fit after having run
a little way, and sometimes even after playing in the yard. She was several times bled during
and after these fits. When I examined her, I could plainly perceive considerable and violent
spasmodic motion of the heart, and the sounds of the beating of the heart were irregular and
convulsive. She was sent to the infirmary, in order to be cured of an attack of mange; but
during her stay in the hospital she had these fits several times: the attack almost always
followed after she had been playing with other dogs. She appeared as if struck by lightning,
and remained motionless for several minutes, her gums losing their natural appearance and assuming
a bluish hue. After the lapse of a few minutes, she again arose as if nothing had been the
matter. She was bled twice in eight days, and several doses of foxglove were administered to
her. The fits appeared to become less frequent; but, playing one day with another dog, she
fell and expired immediately.

The 'post mortem' examination was made two hours after death. The cavity of the pericardium
contained a red clot of blood, which enveloped the whole of the heart; it was thicker in the
parts that corresponded with the valve of the heart; and on the left ventricle, and near the
base of the left valve of the heart, and on the external part of that viscus, was an irregular
rent two inches long. It crossed the wall of the valve of the heart, which was very thin in
this place. The size of the heart was very small, considering the height and bulk of the dog.
The walls of the ventricles, and particularly of the left ventricle, were very thick. The cavity
of the left ventricle was very small; there was evidently a concentric hypertrophy of these
ventricles; the left valve of the heart was of great size.

The immediate cause of the rupture of the valve of the heart had evidently been an increase
of circulation, brought on by an increase of exercise; but the remote cause consisted in the
remarkable thinness of the walls of the valve of the heart. This case is remarkable in more
than one respect; first, because examples of rupture of the valve of the heart are very rare;
and, secondly, because this rupture had its seat in the left valve of the heart, while, usually,
in both the human being and the quadruped, it takes place in the right; and this, without doubt,
because the walls and the valves of the right side are thinner.

Diseases of the investing membrane of the lungs, and the pleura of the thoracic cavity, and
of the substance of the lungs, are more frequent than those of the heart.

PLEURISY,

or inflammation of the membrane of the chest and the lungs of the dog, is not unfrequent. There
are few instances of inflammation of the lungs, or pneumonia, that do not ultimately become
connected with or terminate in pleurisy. The tenderness of the sides, the curious twitching
that is observed, the obstinate sitting up, and the presence of a short, suppressed, painful
cough, which the dog bears with strange impatience, are the symptoms that principally distinguish
it from pneumonia.  The exploration of the chest by auscultation gives a true picture of it
in pleurisy; and, by placing the dog alternately on his chest, his back, or his side, we can
readily ascertain the extent to which effusion exists in the thoracic cavity; and, if we think
proper, we can get rid of the fluid. It is not a dangerous thing to attempt, although it is
very problematical whether much advantage would accrue from the operation. With a favourite
dog it may, however, be tried; and, to prevent all accidents, a veterinary surgeon should be
entrusted with the case.

PNEUMONIA,

or inflammation of the substance of the lungs, is a complaint of frequent occurrence in the
dog, and is singularly marked. The extended head, the protruded tongue, the anxious, bloodshot
eye, the painful heaving of the hot breath, the obstinacy with which the animal sits up hour
after hour until his feet slip from under him, and the eye closes, and the head droops, through
extreme fatigue, yet in a moment being roused again by the feeling of instant suffocation,
are symptoms that cannot be mistaken.

Here, from the comparative thinness of the integument and the parietes, we have the progress
of the disease brought completely under our view. The exploration of the chest of the dog by
auscultation is a beautiful as well as wonderful thing. It at least exhibits to us the actual
state of the lungs, if it does not always enable us to arrest the impending evil.

Mr. Blaine and myself used cordially to agree with regard to the treatment of pneumonia, materially
different from the opinions of the majority of sportsmen. Epidemic pneumonia was generally
fatal, if it was not speedily arrested in its course. The cure was commenced by bleeding, and
that to a considerable extent, when not more than four-and-twenty or six-and thirty hours had
passed; for, after that, the progress of the disease could seldom be arrested. Blistering the
chest was sometimes resorted to with advantage; and the cantharides ointment and the oil of
turpentine formed one of the most convenient as well as one of the most efficacious blisters.
A purgative was administered, composed of mutton broth with Epsom salts or castor oil; to which
followed the administration of the best sedatives that we have in those cases, namely, nitre,
powdered foxglove, and antimonial powder, in the proportion of a scruple of the first, four
grains of the second, and two grains of the third.

Congestion of the lungs is a frequent termination of pneumonia; and in that congestion the
air-cells are easily ruptured and filled with blood. That blood assumes a black pulpy appearance,
commonly indicated by the term of 'rottenness', an indication or consequence of the violence
of the disease, and the hopelessness of the case. A different consequence of inflammation of
the lungs is the formation of tubercles, and, after that, of suppuration and abscess, when,
generally speaking, the case is hopeless. A full account of this is given in the work on the Horse.

Two cases of pneumonia will be useful:

Oct. 22d, 1820. A black pointer bitch that had been used lo a warm kennel, was made to sleep
on flat stones without straw. A violent cough followed, under which she had been getting worse
and worse for a fortnight. Yesterday I saw her. The breathing was laborious. The bitch was
constantly shifting her position, and, whether she lay down or sat up, was endeavouring to
elevate her head. Her usual posture was sitting, and she only lay down for a minute. The eyes
were surrounded, and the nose nearly stopped with mucus. V. S. [Symbol: ounce] viij. Emet.
Fever-ball twice in the day.

23d. Breathing not quite so laborious. Will not eat. Medicine as before. Apply a blister on
the chest.

24th. Nearly the same. V. S. [Symbol: ounce] vj. Bol. utheri.

26th. Decided amendment. She breathes with much less difficulty. Less discharge both from eyes
and nose. Bol. utheri.

Nov. 7th. Sent home well.

A singular and not uninstructive case came before me. A lady in the country wrote to me to
say, that her terrier was thin, dull, husking, and perpetually trying to get something from
the throat; that her coat stared, and she frequently panted, I replied, that I apprehended
she had caught cold; and recommended bleeding to the extent of four ounces, a grain each of
calomel and emetic tartar to be given every fourth morning, and a fever-ball, composed of digitalis,
nitre, and tartrate of antimony, on each intermediate day.

A few days after this I received another letter from her, saying, that the dog was bled as
ordered, and died on the following Thursday. That another veterinary surgeon had been called
in, who said that the first one had punctured the 'vena cava' in the operation, and that the
dog had bled to death internally; and she wished to know my opinion. I replied, that the charge
proceeded from ignorance or malice, or both. That in one sense he was right--the jugular, which
the other had probably opened, runs into the vena cava, and may, with some latitude, be considered
a superior branch of it; therefore, thus far the first man had punctured the vena cava, which
I had done many hundred times; but that the point of union of the four principal veins that
form the vena cava was too securely seated in the upper part of the thorax for any lancet to
reach it. That the rupture of some small arterial vessel might have caused this lingering death,
but that the puncture of a vein would either have been speedily fatal, or of no consequence;
and that, probably, the animal died of the disease which she had described.

SPASMODIC COUGH

is a troublesome disease to manage. Dogs, and especially those considerably petted, are subject
to frequent cough, requiring a material difference in the treatment. Sometimes there is a husky
cough, not to so great a degree as in distemper, but followed by the same apparent effort to
get something from the throat, the same attempt to vomit, and the ejection of mucus, frothy
or adhesive, and occasionally discoloured with bile. It proceeds from irritability or obstruction
in some of the air-passages, and oftenest of the superior ones. An emetic will clear the fauces,
or at least force out a portion of the adhesive matter which is clogging the bronchial tubes.

A cough of this kind, and attended in its early stages by little fever, seldom requires anything
more for its cure than the exhibition of a few gentle emetics, consisting of equal portions
of calomel and emetic tartar, given in doses varying from half a grain to one grain and a half
of each.

A harsh hollow cough is attended by more inflammatory action. The depletive system must be
adopted here. A loud and harsh cough will yield only to the lancet and to purgatives, assisted
by sedative medicines composed of nitre, antimonial powder, and digitalis, or small doses of
syrup of poppies, or more minute doses of the hydrocyanic acid; this last medicine, however,
should be carefully watched, and only given under surgical advice.

28th October, 1842. A spaniel was apparently well yesterday, but towards evening a violent
cough suddenly came on. It was harsh and hollow, and terminated in retching. There was a discharge
of water from the eyes; but the nose was cool and moist. Give an emetic, and then two grains
of the James's powder.

29th The animal coughed almost the whole of the night. There was more watery discharge from
the eyes, which appeared to be red and impatient of light; the nose continued cool, and the
dog did not refuse his food. An aperient ball was given; and twice afterwards in the day, the
nitre, antimonial powder, and digitalis.

30th. The cough is as frequent, but not very loud. Give a mixture of syrup of poppies and prussic
acid morning and night, and the ball as yesterday.

31st. Nearly in the same state as yesterday, except that he is not so thirsty, and does not
eat so well. Give the mixture three times daily.

Nov. 1st. He had an emetic in the morning, which produced a large quantity of phlegm, but the
cough is no better. No evacuation during the two last days. Give an aperient ball, and the
mixture as before in the evening.

The prussic acid has been fairly tried; it has not in the least mitigated the cough, but begins
to make the dog sick, and altogether to destroy his appetite. Give three times in the day a
mixture consisting of two-thirds of a drachm of syrup of poppies, and one-third of syrup of
buckthorn. The sickness ceased, and the cough remained as before, I then gave twice in the
day half a grain of calomel, the same of opium, two each of pulvis antimonialis and digitalis,
and four grains of nitre, morning and noon, with six grains of the Dover's powder at night.
This was continued on the 3d, 4th and 5th of November, when there were longer intervals of
rest, and the dog did not cough so harshly when the fit was on him.

On the 6th, however, no medicine was given; but towards evening the dog coughed as much as
ever, and a decided mucous discharge commenced from the nose and the eyes, with considerable
snorting. An emetic was given, and the balls resorted to as before.

'7th.' He appeared to be much relieved by the emetic. The cough was better, the dog ate well,
and had regained his usual spirits. The ball as before.

'9th'. Slight tenesmus now appeared. It quickly became frequent and violent. The dog strained
very much; but the discharge was small in quantity, and consisted of adhesive mucus. Give two
drachms of castor oil, and the fever ball with opium. The cough is worse, and the dog still
continues to strain, no blood, however, appearing.

'11th'. The opium and oil have had their desired effect, and the cough is better.

'12th', Except the animal is kept under the influence of opium, the cough is dreadfully troublesome.
I have, however, obtained one point. I have been permitted to subtract four ounces of blood;
but blood had been mingling with the expectorated mucus before I was permitted to have recourse
to the lancet.

'13th'. The dog is better, and we again have recourse to the fever mixture, to which, on the
'14th', I added a very small portion of the carbonate of iron, for the dog was evidently getting
weak. The sickness has returned, and the cough is decidedly worse.

'16th'. Rub a small quantity of rheumatic embrocation, and tincture of cantharides.

'17th.' The first application of the blister had not much effect; but this morning it began
to act. The dog ran about the house as cross as he could be for more than an hour; there was
considerable redness on the throat and chest. The cough, however, was decidedly better.

'18th'. The cough is better. Again apply the embrocation.

'19th.' The cough and huskiness have returned. Employ an emetic, and continue the embrocation.

'20th'. The cough is decidedly worse. Continue the embrocation, and give the fever mixture.

'23d'. The embrocation and medicine have been daily used; but the cough is as bad as ever.
Balls of assafoetida, squills, and opium were had recourse to.

25th. The second ball produced the most distressing sickness, but the cough was evidently relieved.
The assafoetida was discontinued.

'28th'. The cough, during the last two days, has been gradually getting worse. It is more laborious
and longer, and the intervals between it are shorter. Give another emetic and continue the
other medicine.

30th'. The effect of the emetic was temporary, and the cough is again worse.

'Dec'. 2d'. Very little change.

5th'. The cough appears to be stationary. Again have recourse to the antimony, digitalis, and
nitre.

8th'. The cough is certainly better. Try once more the assafoetida. It again produced sickness,
but of a very mild character.

12th'. The assafoetida was again used used morning and night. The cough continues evidently
to abate.

14th'. The dog coughs very little, not more than half-a-dozen times in the day. Notwithstanding
the quantity of medicine that has been taken, the appetite is excellent, and the spirits good.

16th'. The cough is still less frequent, but when it occurs it is attended with retching.

19th'. The cough is daily getting better, and is not heard more than three or four times in
the four-and-twenty hours, and then very slight.

30th'. At length I can say that the cough has ceased. It is seldom that so much trouble would
have been taken with a dog. It is the neglect of the medical attendance which is often the
cause of death. Professor Delafond, of Alfort, gives a most interesting and complete table
of the usual diagnostic symptoms of pleurisy and pneumonia.

PLEURISY.

'Commencement of the Inflammation'. Shivering, usually accompanied by slight colicky pains,
and followed by general or partial sweating. Inspiration always short, unequal, and interrupted;
expiration full; air expired of the natural temperature. Cough unfrequent, faint, short, and
without expectoration. Artery full. Pulse quick, small, and wiry.

'Auscultation'. A respiratory murmur, feeble, or accompanied by a slight rubbing through the
whole extent of the chest, or in some parts only.

'Percussion'. Slight, dead, grating sound. Distinct resonance through the whole of the chest,
and pain expressed when the sides are tapped or compressed.

'Terminations' Delitescence. Cessation of pain; moderate temperature of the skin; sometimes
profuse general perspiration. Respiration less accelerated; inspiration easier and deeper.
Pulse fuller and softer. Breath of the natural temperature. Return of the natural respiratory
murmur and resonance.  The walls of the chest cease to exhibit increased sensibility.

'Effusion, false Membranes'. Inspiration more and more full.

'Auscultation and Percussion. Complete absence of the respiratory murmur, with the crepitating
wheezing always at the bottom of the chest; sometimes a gurgling noise. Vesicular respiration
very strong in the upper region of the chest, or in the sac opposite to the effusion.

'Continuance of the Effusion'. Absence of the respiratory murmur gains the middle region of
the chest, following the level of the fluid. These symptoms may be found on only one side;
a circumstance of frequent occurrence in the dog, but rare in other animals. The respiratory
murmur increases in the superior region of the chest, or on the side opposite to the effusion.
Inspiration becomes more and more prolonged. Breath always cold. Cough not existing, or rarely,
and always suppressed and interrupted. Exercise producing much difficulty of respiration.

'Resolution or Re-absorption of the effused fluid, and Organization of false Membrane, the
consequence of Pleurisy'.

Slow but progressive reappearance of the respiratory murmur, and disappearance of the sounds
produced by the fluid. Diminution of the force of the respiratory murmur in the superior part
of the chest, or of the lung opposite to the sac in which the effusion exists. Gradual return
of the respiratory murmur to the inferior part of the chest. Inspiration less deep, and returning
to its natural state.

'Chronic Pleurisy, with Hydrothorax'. Inspiration short. Cough dry, sometimes with expectoration;
frequent or capricious; always absence of complete respiratory murmur in the inferior portion
of the chest. Sometimes the gurgling noise during inspiration and expiration. Strong respiratory
murmur in the superior portion. In dogs these symptoms sometimes have existence only on one
side of the chest. The mucous membranes are infiltrated; serous infiltration on the lower part
of the chest and belly; sometimes of the scrotum or the inferior extremities; generally of
the fore legs. The animal lies down frequently, and dies of suffocation.

PNEUMONIA.

'Commencement of the Inflammation'. General shivering, rarely accompanied by colicky pains,
followed by partial sweats at the flanks and the inside of the thighs. Inspiration full, expiration
short. Air expired hot. Cough frequently followed by slight discharge of red-coloured mucus.
Artery full. Pulse accelerated, strong, full, and soft.

'Auscultation'. Absence of respiratory murmur in places where the lung is congested; feebleness
of that sound in the inflamed parts, with humid crepitating wheezing. The respiratory murmur
increased in the sound parts.

'Percussion'. The dead grating sound confined to the inflamed parts. Distinct resonance at
the sound parts; increased sensibility of the walls of the chest slight, or not existing at all.

'Terminations'. Resolution. Temperature of the skin moderate. Sometimes profuse partial sweats.
Laborious respiration subsiding; inspiration less deep. Artery less full. Pulse yielding. Breath
less hot. Gradual and progressive disappearance of the crepitating 'rale'. Slow return of the
resonance.

'Red Hepatization'. Respiration irregular and interrupted.

'Auscultation and Percussion. Circumscribed absence of the respiratory murmur, in one point,
or in many distinct parts of the lung. The respiratory murmur increased in one or more of the
sound parts of the lung, or in the sound lung if one is inflamed.

'Passage to a State of Gray Induration'. The absence of respiratory murmur indicates extensive
hepatization of one lung; a circumstance, however, of rare occurrence. When the induration
is of both lungs, and equally so, the respiratory murmur and the inspiration remain the same,
except that they become irregular. The cough dry or humid, frequent, and sometimes varying.
Exercise accompanied by difficulty of respiration, without dyspnoea.

'Resolution or Re-absorption of the Products of Inflammation of the Parenchymatous Substance
of the Lungs'.

Diminution of the force of the respiratory murmur in the sound parts. Cessation of the crepitating
wheezing. Slow return of the respiratory murmur where it had ceased. Respiration ceases to
be irregular or interrupted, and returns slowly to its natural state, or it remains interrupted.
This indicates the passage from red to gray induration.

'Chronic Pneumonia--(Gray Induration.)' Inspiration or expiration interrupted, cough unfrequent;
suppressed; rarely with expectoration; always interrupted. Complete absence of respiratory murmur.

'Softening of the Induration, Ulcerations, Vomicae, &c.' Mucous and wheezing; mucous rale in
the bronchia; discharge from the nostrils of purulent matter, white, gray, or black, and sometimes
fetid. Paleness of the mucous membranes. The animal seldom lies down, and never long at a time.
Death by suffocation, when the matter proceeding from the vomicae, or abscesses, obstructs
the bronchial passages, or by the development of an acute inflammation engrafted upon the chronic
one.

The 'oesophagus', or gullet, of the dog, is constructed in nearly the same manner as that of
the horse. It consists of a similar muscular tube passing down the neck and through the chest,
and terminating in the stomach, in which the process of digestion is commenced. The orifice
by which the gullet enters the stomach is termed the 'cardia', probably on account of its neighbourhood
to the heart or its sympathy with it. It is constantly closed, except when the food is passing
through it into the stomach.

The 'stomach' has three coats: the outermost, which is the common covering of all the intestines,
called the peritoneum; the second or muscular coat, consisting of two layers of fibres, by
which a constant motion is communicated to the stomach, mingling the food, and preparing it
for digestion; and the mucous or villous, where the work of digestion properly commences, the
mouths of numerous little vessels opening upon it, which exude the gastric juice, to mix with
the food already softened, and to convert it into a fluid called the chyme. It is a simpler
apparatus than in the horse or in cattle. It is occasionally the primary seat of inflammation:
and it almost invariably sympathises with the affections of the other intestines.

The successive contractions of each portion of the stomach, expose by turns every portion of
the alimentary mass to the influence of the gastric juice, and each is gradually discharged
into the alimentary canal.

As the chyme is formed, it passes out of the other orifice of the stomach, and enters the first
intestine or 'duodenum'.

It may be naturally supposed that this process will occasionally be interrupted by a variety
of circumstances. Inflammation of the stomach of the dog is very difficult to deal with. It
is produced by numerous different causes. There is great and long-continued sickness; even
the most harmless medicine is not retained on the stomach. The thirst is excessive; there are
evident indications of excessive pain, expressed by the countenance and by groans: there is
a singular disposition in the animal to hide himself from all observation; an indication that
should never be neglected, nor the frequent change from heat to cold, and from cold to heat.

The mode of treatment is simple, although too often inefficient. The lancet must be immediately
resorted to, and the bleeding continued until the animal seems about to fall; and to this should
quickly succeed repeated injections. Two or three drops of the croton oil should be injected
twice or thrice in the day, until the bowels are thoroughly opened. The animal will be considerably
better, or the disease cured, in the course of a couple of days.

There is a singular aptitude in the stomach of the dog to eject a portion of its contents;
but, almost immediately afterwards, the food, or a portion if not the whole of it, is swallowed
again. This is a matter of daily occurrence. There is a coarse rough grass, the 'cynosurus
cristatus', or crested dog's-tail. It is inferior for the purposes of hay, but is admirably
suited for permanent pastures. It remains green after most other grasses are burnt by a continuance
of dry weather. The dog, if it be in his power, has frequent recourse to it, especially if
he lives mostly in a town. The dry and stimulating food, which generally falls to his share,
produces an irritation of his stomach, from which lie is glad to free himself; and for this
purpose he has recourse to the sharp leaves of the cynosurus. They irritate the lining membrane
of the stomach and intestines, and cause a portion of the food to be occasionally evacuated;
acting either as an emetic or a purgative, or both. They seem to be designed by nature to be
substituted for the calomel and tartar emetic, and other drugs, which are far too often introduced.

An interesting case of the retention of a sharp instrument in the stomach is related by Mr.
Kent of Bristol.

On the 23d of February, Mr. Harford, residing in Bristol, when feeding a pointer-dog, happened
to let the fork tumble with the flesh, and the dog swallowed them both. On the following morning,
Mr. Kent was desired to see the animal; and, although he could feel the projection of the fork
outwardly, which convinced him that the dog had in reality swallowed it, yet, as he appeared
well, and exhibited no particular symptoms of pain or fever, Mr. Kent gave it as his opinion
that there was a possibility that he might survive the danger, and the animal was sent to him,
in order to be more immediately under his care. The treatment he adopted was, to feed him on
cow's liver, with a view to keep the stomach distended and the bowels open; and he gave him
three times a day half a pint of water, with sufficient sulphuric acid to make it rather strongly
sour to the human tongue, with the intention of assisting the stomach in dissolving the iron.

On the following Sunday, the skin, at the projecting point, began to exhibit some indication
of ulceration; and on Monday a prong of the fork might be touched with the point of the finger,
when pressed on the ulcer. Mr. Kent then determined on making an effort to extract the fork
on the following morning, which he accordingly did, and with but little difficulty, assisted
by a medical friend of the owner. The dog was still fed on cow's liver; his appetite remained
good, and with very little medical treatment the external wound healed. The animal improved
rapidly in flesh during the whole time. He left the infirmary in perfect health, and remained
so, with one inconvenience only, a very bad cough, and his being obliged to lie at length,
being unable to coil himself up in his usual way.

The fork was a three-pronged one, six and a half inches long. The handle, which was of ivory,
was digested: it was quite gone; and either the gastric fluid or the acid, or both conjointly,
had made a very apparent impression on the iron.

Dogs occasionally swallow various strange and unnatural substances. Considerable quantities
of hair are sometimes accumulated in the stomach. Half-masticated pieces of straw are ejected.
Straw mingled with dung is a too convincing proof of rabies. Dog-grass is found irritating
the stomach, or in too great quantities to be ejected, while collections of earth and dung
sometimes threaten suffocation. Pieces of money are occasionally found, and lead, and sponge.
Various species of polypus irritate the coats of the stomach. Portions of chalk, or stone,
or condensed matters, adhere to each other, and masses of strange consistence and form are
collected. The size which they assume increases more and more. M. Galy relates an extraordinary
account of a dog. It was about three years old when a tumour began to be perceived in the flank.
Some sharp-pointed substance was felt; the veterinary surgeon cut down upon it, and a piece
of iron, six inches in length, was drawn out.

The following fact was more extraordinary: it is related by M. Noiret. A hound swallowed a
bone, which rested in the superior part of the oesophagus, behind the pharynx, and caused the
most violent efforts to get rid of it. The only means by which it could be made to descend
into the stomach was by pushing it with the handle of a fork, which, escaping from the hand
of the operator, followed the bone into the stomach. Two months afterwards, on examining the
stomach, the fork was plainly felt lying in a longitudinal direction, parallel with the position
of the body; the owner of the dog wishing mechanically to accelerate the expulsion of this
body, endeavoured to push it backwards with his hands. When it was drawn as far back as possible,
he inserted two fingers into the anus, and succeeded in getting hold of the handle, which he
drew out nearly an inch; but, in order to be enabled fully to effect his object, it was necessary
to make an incision into the rectum, and free the substance from every obstacle that could
retain it. This he did not venture to do, and he was therefore compelled to allow the fork
to pass back into its former position.

About three months after the accident, M. Noiret made an incision, three inches from above
to below, and the same from the front backwards. He also made an incision through the muscular
tissue. Having arrived at the peritoneum, he made another incision, through which he drew from
the abdomen a part of the floating portion of the large intestines, and introduced his fingers
into the abdominal cavity. He seized the handle of the fork, which was among the viscera, and
free about half-way down, and drew it carefully towards the opening made in the flank. The
other half of the fork was found to be closely enveloped by the origin of the mesocolon, which
was red, hard, and inflamed. The operator freed it by cutting through the tissues which held
the fork, and then drew it easily out. The animal was submitted to a proper course of treatment,
and in three weeks afterwards was perfectly cured.

The food, having been converted into chyme by the digestive power of the stomach, soon undergoes
another and very important change. It, or a portion of it, is converted into chyle. It is mixed
with the bile and a secretion from the pancreas in the duodenum. The white thick liquid is
separated, and contains the nutritive part of the food, and a yellow pulpy substance is gradually
changed into excrement. As these substances pass on, the separation between them becomes more
and more complete. The chyle is gradually taken up by the lacteals, and the excrement alone
remains.

The next of the small intestines is the 'jejunum', so called from its being generally empty.
It is smaller in bulk than the duodenum, and the chyme passes rapidly through it.

Next in the list is the 'ileum'; but it is difficult to say where the jejunum terminates and
the ileum commences, except that the latter is usually one-fifth longer than the former.

At the termination of the ileum the 'caecum' makes its appearance, with a kind of valvular
opening into it, of such a nature that everything that passes along it having reached the blind
or closed end, must return in order to escape; or rather the office of the caecum is to permit
certain alimentary matters and all fluids to pass from the ileum, but to oppose their return.

The 'colon' is an intestine of very large size, being one of the most capacious, as well as
one of the longest, of the large intestines. It commences at the caesum caput coli, and soon
expands into a cavity of greater dimensions than even that of the stomach itself. Having attained
this singular bulk, it begins to contract, and continues to do so during its course round the
caecum, until it has completed its second flexure, where it grows so small as scarcely to exceed
in calibre one of the small intestines; and though, from about the middle of this turn, it
again swells out by degrees, it never afterwards acquires its former capaciousness; indeed,
previously to its junction with the rectum, it once more materially differs in size.

At the upper part of the margin of the pelvis the colon terminates in the 'rectum', which differs
from the caecum and colon by possessing only a partial peritoneal covering, and being destitute
of bands and cells. It enlarges towards its posterior extremity, and is furnished with a circular
muscle, the sphincter ani, adapted to preserve the anus closed, and to retain the faeculent
matter until so much of it is accumulated in the rectum as to excite a desire to discharge it.

TETANUS,

a disease of great fatality, often depends upon the condition of the stomach; but it is not
frequent in dogs.

Why the dog is so little subject to 'tetanus', or lock-jaw, I am unable to explain. Sportsmen
say that it sometimes attacks him when, being heated in the chase, he plunges into the water
after the stag. The French give it the name of 'mal de cerf', from stags being supposed to
be attacked in a similar way, and from the same cause. In the course of nearly forty years'
practice, I have seen but four cases of it. The first arose from a wound in the foot. The cause
of the second I could not learn. In both the spasmodic action was dreadful as well as universal.
The dogs lay on their sides, the neck and legs stretched out, and the upper legs kept some
inches from the ground by the intensity of the spasm. They might be taken up by either leg,
and not a portion of the frame change its direction. At the same time, in their countenances,
and by their hoarse cries, they indicated the torture which they endured.

In the third case, which occurred 12th June, 1822, the head was drawn permanently on one side,
and the whole body formed a kind of bow, the dog walking curiously sideways, often falling
as it walked, and frequently screaming violently. I ordered him to be well rubbed with an ammoniacal
liniment, and balls of tonic and purging medicine to be given twice in the day. The dog gradually
recovered, and was dismissed cured on the 20th.

On the 16th November, in the same year, a bull-terrier had a similar complaint. He had been
tried in the pit a fortnight before, and severely injured, and the pain and stiffness of his
joints were increasing. The head was now permanently drawn on one side. The dog was unable
to stand even for a moment, and the eyes were in a state of spasmodic motion. He was a most
savage brute; but I attempted to manage him, and, by the assistance of the owner, contrived
lo bleed him, and to give him a physic-ball. At the same time I advised that he should be destroyed.

His master would not consent to this; and, as the dog occasionally ate a little, we contrived
to give a grain each of calomel and opium every sixth hour. In the course of three days he
was materially recovered. He could stand, but was exceedingly weak, I ordered the calomel lo
be omitted, but the opium to be continued. Three days afterwards he was sent into the country,
and, as I heard, perfectly recovered.

The following is a very interesting case of tetanus, detailed by M. Debeaux, of the Royal French
Chasseurs:

A favourite dog was missing. Four days had passed, and no intelligence could be obtained with
regard to him until he returned home, fatigued and half-starved. He had probably been stolen.
In the excess of their joy, the owners crammed him with meat until he became strangely ill.
His throat was filled with froth, the pupils of his eyes were dilated, the conjunctiva was
strongly injected, his neck was spasmodically contracted, and the spine of the back was bowed,
and most highly sensible to the touch. M. Debeaux was sent for; it was an hour before he could
attend. The dog was lying on his belly; the four limbs were extended and stiff. He uttered
the most dreadful and prolonged howling every two or three minutes. The surgeon ordered the
application of a dozen leeches to the chest and belly; laxative medicines were given, and embrocations
applied to the spine and back.

Three days passed, and the symptoms evidently augmented. The excrement was dark and fetid,
and the conjunctiva had a strong yellow tint. Leeches were again employed; emollient lotions
and aperient medicines were resorted to. The sensibility of the spine and back was worse than
ever; the animal lay on his belly, stretching out his four limbs, his neck fixed, his jaws
immovable, his voice hoarse, and he was utterly unable to move.

The bathings, lotions, and aperients were continued, with very few intermissions, until the
14th day, when the muscles began to be a little relaxed; but he cried whenever he was touched.
On the 15th, for the first time, he began to eat a little, and his natural voice returned;
still, however, the spasms occasionally appeared, but very much mitigated, and on the 20th
the pain had entirely ceased.

On the 5th of the next month he travelled two leagues with his master. It was cold, and the
snow fell. On his reaching home, all the horrible spasms returned, and it was eleven days before
he was completely cured. [1]

Mr. Blaine gives the following account of his experience of this disease:

  "It is remarkable, that although dogs are subject to various spasmodic
  affections, yet they are so little subject to lock-jaw that I never
  met with more than three cases of it among many thousands of diseased
  dogs. Two of these cases were 'idiopathic'; one being apparently
  occasioned by exposure to cold air all night; the other the cause was
  obscure. The third was of that kind called 'sympathetic', and arose
  from extreme injury done to one of the feet. In each of these cases
  the convulsive spasm was extreme, and the rigidity universal but not
  intense. In one case the jaw was only partially locked. Both warm and
  cold bathings were tried. Large doses of opium and camphor were given
  by the mouth, and also thrown up in clysters. The spine of one was
  blistered. Stimulating frictions were applied to all, but in neither
  case with any salutary effect." [2]

ENTERITIS.

'Enteritis', or inflammation of the intestine, is a disease to which dogs are very liable.
It may be produced by the action of several causes. The intestines of the dog are peculiarly
irritable, and subject to take on inflammatory action, and this tendency is often much increased
by the artificial life which they lead. It is a very frequent complaint among those dogs that
are much petted. A cold temperature is also a common cause of disease in these dogs.

I was consulted with regard to a dog who was hiding himself in a cold, dark corner, paved with
stone. Every now and then he lifted his head and uttered a howl closely resembling that of
a rabid dog. He fixed his gaze intently upon me, with a peculiarity of expression which many
would have mistaken for rabid. They, however, who have had the opportunity of seeing many of
these cases, will readily perceive the difference. The conjunctiva is not so red, the pupil
is not so dilated, and the dog appears to implore pity and not to menace evil.

In this state, if the dog is approached, he will not permit himself to be touched until he
he convinced that no harm is intended. A peculiar slowness attends each motion; his cries are
frequent and piteous; his belly hot and tender; two cords, in many cases, seem to run longitudinally
from the chest to the pubis, and on these he cannot bear the slightest pressure. He abhors
all food; but his thirst for water, and particularly cold water, is extreme; he frequently
looks round at his flanks, and the lingering gaze is terminated by a cry or groan. In the majority
of cases there is considerable costiveness; but, in others, the bowels are freely opened from
the beginning.

The peritoneal inflammation is sometimes pure, but oftener involves the muscular coat of the
intestines. Its prevailing cause is exposure to cold, especially after fatigue, of lying on
the wet stones or grass. Now and then it is the result of neglected rheumatism, especially
in old and petted dogs.

The treatment is simple. Bleed until the pulse falters, put the animal in a warm bath, and
let the belly be gently rubbed while the dog is in the water, and well fomented afterwards;
the drink should consist of warm broth, or warm milk and water. The bleeding should be repeated,
if little or unsatisfactory relief is obtained; and the examination of the rectum with the
finger, and the removal of any hardened faeces that may have accumulated there, and the cautious
use of enemata, neither too stimulating nor too forcibly injected, should be resorted to. No
medicine should be employed until the most urgent symptoms are abated. Castor oil, the mildest
of our purgatives--syrup of buckthorn assisting the purgative property of the oil, and containing
in its composition as much stimulating power as is safe--and the spirit of while poppies--the
most convenient anodyne to mingle with the other medicines--will generally be successful in
allaying the irritation already existing, and preventing the development of more. Even this
must not be given in too large quantities, and the effect must be assisted by a repetition
of the enemata every fifth or sixth hour. On examination after death the nature of the disease
is sufficiently evident: the peritoneum, or portions of it, is highly injected with blood,
the veins are turgid, the muscular membrane corrugated and hardened, while often the mucous
membrane displays not a trace of disease. In violent cases, however, the whole of the intestines
exhibit evidence of inflammation.

I was much gratified a few years ago in witnessing the decided manner in which Professor Spooner
expressed himself with regard to the treatment of enteritis in the dog.

  "I should deem it advisable," said he, "to administer a purgative; but
  of what would that consist? Calomel? Certainly not. I was surprised to
  hear one gentleman assert that he should administer it to the extent
  of from five to ten grains, and another to say that he should not
  hesitate to exhibit a scruple of calomel to a dog, and to all
  carnivorous animals. I should never think of exhibiting it as a
  cathartic. I should only administer it in small doses, and for the
  purpose of producing its specific effect on the liver, which is the
  peculiar property of this drug. Given in larger doses it would not be
  retained, and if it got into the intestines it would act as a powerful
  drastic purgative." [3]

In our treatment of the horse we have got rid of a great proportion of the destructive urine-balls
and drastic purgatives of the farrier. The cow is no longer drenched with half-a-dozen deleterious
stimulants. A most desirable change has been effected in the medical treatment of these animals.
Let us not, with regard to the dog, continue to pursue the destructive course of the keeper
or the huntsman.

The following case of enteritis, with rupture of the colon, may be useful:

On March 15, 1840, I was requested to attend a large dog of the bull breed, three years old,
who had not appeared to be well during the last four or five days.

I had scarcely arrived ere I recognised it to be a case of enteritis. He had a dreadful shivering
fit, to which succeeded heat of the skin and restlessness. The muzzle was dry and hot, as also
was the tongue. The eyes were sunken and redder than usual; the breathing was accelerated,
but not very laborious; the extremities were cold, while the surface of the body was hot and
painful to the touch. The bowels were constipated, and had been so during the last week; some
dung however was evacuated, but it was hard and dry, and in small quantities. The pulse was
quick, but full; and there was a slight pain and considerable irritation in the rectum. I took
from him [Symbol: ounce] x. of blood before the desired effect was produced, and then gave
him tinct. opii gr. xiv., et spt. ether, nit. gutt. viij., cum ol. ricini [Symbol: ounce] iij.,
and an opiate enema to allay the irritation of the rectum. This was about 8 o'clock, A.M.

11 A.M.--The bowels have not been moved, and the pain is more intense; his countenance expresses
great anxiety; he frequently lies on his stomach, and the pulse is small but quick. I gave
him a little broth, and ordered the abdomen to be fomented with hot flannels.

2 P.M.--He has had distressing sickness, and is extremely anxious for water. I introduced my
finger into the rectum, but could not discover any hardened faeces. Enemata, composed of mag.
sulphas and warm water, were frequently thrown into the intestines; as soon as one came away
another was thrown up.

4 P.M.--No better: gave him pulv. aloes [Symbol: ounce] j.; calomel, gr. vj. et pulv. opii
gr. viij. The fomentations to be continued, and the abdomen rubbed with a lin. terebinthinae.

5 P.M.--A great change has taken place within the last hour; the hind extremities are paralysed;
the mouth and ears are cold; the pulse is more hurried and irregular, and almost imperceptible;
the respiration is laborious and irregular, as is the pulse; and the dog is frequently sick.
To be kept quiet.

6 P.M.--Another change: he lies panting and groaning piteously; his limbs are bathed in sweat,
with convulsive struggles. At twenty minutes past six he died.

A post-mortem examination presented general marks of inflammation; the small intestines were
extremely red, while the large ones were in a gangrenous state and most offensive, with a rupture
of the colon. I did not expect to meet with the rupture, and am at a loss to account for it.
The liver was of a pale ashen colour, and very light. I put a piece of it into some water,
and it floated on the surface. The other contents of the abdomen did not show the slightest
appearance of disease.

September 2d, 1843.--A black pug-bitch, 18 months old, was yesterday taken violently sick;
the vomiting continued at intervals the greater part of the day, and she had not eaten during
the last 24 hours. I could not possibly get at her, on account of her ferocity: as she had
not had the distemper, and as I was misled by her age and the watery discharge from her eyes,
and as she had had several motions yesterday, I imagined that the attack might be the beginning
of that disease. Learning that she was fond of sweet things, I prepared an emetic containing
a grain of calomel and a grain of tartar emetic: she took it readily, and I promised to call
on the following day.

Sept. 3.--The weakness at the eyes had disappeared, but there had been no motion. On getting
at her by main force I found her belly very tense and rather hot: she had again been sick,
was very eager for water, and still refused to eat. The disease was now evident. As she appeared
too unmanageable for anything else, I produced a physic-ball, in giving which I was bitten.

Six hours afterwards I again went: no faeces had passed: I administered two enemas, the second
of which was returned with a small quantity of hardened faeces and an intolerable smell. I
ordered the water to be removed, and broth to be substituted.

Sept. 4.--The dog is in good spirits, has eaten heartily, and had no motion, probably because
it was habitually cleanly, and had not been taken out of doors. Her owner considered her as
quite well, and dismissed me. Three days afterwards a servant came to say that all was going
on very well.

PERITONITIS.

Chronic inflammation of the 'peritoneal membrane' is a frequent disease among dogs. The animal
loses his appetite and spirits; he sometimes eats a little and sometimes not; he becomes thin,
his belly is tucked up, and when we closely examine him we find it contracted and hard, and
those longitudinal columns of which I have already spoken are peculiarly dense and almost unyielding.
He now and then utters a half-suppressed whine, and he occasionally seeks to hide himself.
In the greater number of cases he after a while recovers; but he too often pines away and dies.
On examination after death the case is plain enough. There is inflammation of the peritoneal
membrane, more indicated by undue congestion of the bowels than by the general blush of the
membrane. The inflammation has now spread to the muscular coat, and the whole of the intestine
is corrugated and thickened.

There is another peritoneal affection, aggravated by combination with a rheumatic tendency,
to which the dog is more disposed than any other domesticated animal. It has its most frequent
origin in cold, or being too much fed on stimulating and acrid food, and probably from other
causes which have not yet been sufficiently developed.

Here also no drastic purgative is to be admitted; it would be adding fuel to fire: not a grain
of calomel should be used, if the life of the animal is valued. The castor oil mixture will
afford the most certain relief, a drop or two of the oil of peppermint being added to it.

COLIC.

The dog is also subject to fits of 'colic', principally to be traced to improper food, or a
sudden change of food, or exposure to cold. This is particularly the case with puppies. There
is no redness of the eye, no heat of the mouth, no quickened respiration; but the animal labours
under fits of pain. He is not quiet for a minute. He gets into one corner and another, curling
himself closely up, but he does not lie there more than a minute or two; another fit of pain
comes on; he utters his peculiar yelp, and seeks some new place in which he may possibly find rest.

It is with considerable diffidence that I offer an opinion on this subject contrary to that
of Mr. Blaine. He states that the treatment of this species of colic is seldom successful,
and that which has seemed the most efficacious has been mercurial purgatives; namely, calomel
one grain, aloes a scruple, and opium a quarter of a grain, until the bowels are opened. I
have seldom found much difficulty in relieving the patient suffering under this affection;
and I gave no aloes nor calomel, but the oleaginous mixture to which I have so often referred.
I should not so much object to the aloes, for they constitute an excellent purgative for the
dog; nor to a dog that I was preparing for work, or that was suffering from worms, should I
object to two or three grains of calomel intimately mixed with the aloes: from the combined
effect of the two, some good might be obtained.

CALCULUS IN THE INTESTINES

Many persons have a very foolish custom of throwing stones, that their dogs may dive or run
after them, and bring them to their owner's feet: the consequence is, that their teeth are
soon worn down, and there are too many cases on record in which the stone has been swallowed.
It has been impeded in its progress through the intestinal canal, inflammation has ensued,
and the animal has been lost, after having suffered the most dreadful torture.

Professor Simonds relates a case in which a dog was thus destroyed. The animal for some days
previous to his admission into the hospital had refused his food, and there was obstinate constipation
of the bowels, to remove which aperient medicine had been given. The pulse was accelerated,
there was distension of the abdomen with evident tenderness on pressure, the extremities were
cold, no faeces were voided, and he occasionally vomited. Some aperient medicine was given,
which was retained on the stomach, and enemas and external stimulants were resorted to, but
two days afterwards he died.

The intestines were examined, and the offending body was found to be a common pebble. The dog
had long been accustomed to fetch stones out of the water. One of these stones had passed through
the stomach into the intestines, and, after proceeding some distance along them, had been impacted
there. The inflammation was most intense so far as the stone had gone; but in the part of the
intestine to which it had not reached there was not any. This was an interesting and instructive
case, and should make its due impression.

Another account of the strange contents of the intestines of a bitch may be here introduced.

A valuable pointer-bitch was sent to the infirmary of Mr. Godwin of Litchfield. She presented
a very emaciated appearance, and had done so for four or five months. Her evacuations for a
day or two were very thin and copious, and afterwards for several days nothing was passed.
When pressing the abdomen with both hands, a hard substance was distinctly felt in the inferior
part of the umbilical region. She was destroyed, and, upon 'post-mortem' examination, a calculus
was discovered in the ileum about the size and shape of a hen's egg, the nucleus of which was
a portion of hair. The coats of the intestines were considerably thickened and enlarged, so
as to form a kind of sac for its retention. Anterior to this was another substance, consisting
of a ball of hair, covered with a layer of earthy matter about the eighth of an inch thick,
and next to this another ball of hair of less dimensions, intermixed with a gritty substance.
The stomach contained a large quantity of hair, and a portion of the omentum, about the size
of n crown piece, was thickly studded with small white calculi, the largest about the size
of a pea, and exceedingly hard.

INTUSSUSCEPTION.

If 'peritonitis'--inflammation--is neglected, or drastic purgatives are too often and too plentifully
administered, a peculiar contraction of the muscular membrane of the intestine takes place,
and one portion of the bowel is received within another--there is 'intussusception'. In most
cases, a portion of the anterior intestine is received into that which is posterior to it.
Few of us have opened a dog that had been labouring under this peculiar affection without being
struck with the collapsed state of the canal in various parts, and in some much more than in
others. Immediately posterior to this collapsed portion, it is widened to a considerable extent.
The peristaltic motion of the intestine goes on, and the consequence is, that the constricted
portion is received into that which is widened, the anterior portion is invaginated in the
posterior: obstruction of the intestinal passage is the necessary consequence, and the animal
dies, either from the general disturbance of the system which ensues, or the inflammation which
is set up in the invaginated part.

I will say nothing of medical treatment in this case; for I do not know the symptoms of intussusception,
or how it is to be distinguished from acute inflammation of the bowels. Acute inflammation
will not long exist without producing it; and, if its existence should be strongly suspected,
the treatment would be the same as for inflammation.

The domesticated dog, from the nature of his food, more than from any constitutional tendency,
is liable to constipation. This should never be neglected. If two or three days should pass
without an evacuation, the case should be taken in hand; otherwise inflammation will be very
soon established. In order to procure an evacuation, the aloetic ball, with one or two grains
of calomel, should be given. Beyond that, however, I should not dare to go; but, if the constipation
continued, I should have recourse to the castor-oil mixture. I should previously examine and
empty the rectum, and have frequent recourse to the enema-syringe; and I should continue both.
It would be my object to evacuate the intestinal canal with as little increased action as possible.

DIARRHOEA

is the discharge of faeces more frequently than usual, and thinner than their natural consistence,
but otherwise not materially altered in quality; and the mucous coat of the intestines being
somewhat congested, if not inflamed. It is the consequence of over-feeding, or the use of improper
food. Sometimes it is of very short continuance, and disappears without any bad consequence;
the health being unaffected, and the character of the faeces not otherwise altered than by
assuming a fluid character. It may not be bad practice to wait a day, or possibly two, as it
is desirable for the action of the intestines to be restored without the aid of art. I should
by no means give a physic-ball, or a grain of calomel, in simple diarrhoea. I should fear the
establishment of that species of purging which is next to be described. The castor-oil mixture
usually affords the best hope of success.

Habitual diarrhoea is not an unfrequent disease in petted dogs: in some it is constitutional,
in others it is the effect of neglected constipation. A state of chronic inflammation is induced,
which has become part of the constitution of the dog; and, if repressed in the intestines,
it will appear under a more dangerous form in some other place.

DYSENTERY

is a far more serious complaint. In most cases a considerable degree of inflammation of the
mucous coat exists, and the mucus is separated from the membrane beneath, and discharged per
anum. The mucus thus separated from the intestinal membrane assumes an acrid character. It
not only produces inflammation of the membrane, dangerous and difficult to treat, but it excoriates
the anus and neighbouring parts, and produces pain and tenesmus.

This disease has sometimes been fatally misunderstood. A great deal of irritation exists in
the intestinal membrane generally, and in the lower part of the rectum particularly. The faeces
passing over this denuded surface cause a considerable degree of pain, and there is much straining,
and a very small bit or portion of faces is evacuated. This has often been seen by the careless
observer; and, as he has taken it as an indication of costiveness, some drastic purgative has
been administered, and the animal quickly killed.

No one that had ascertained the real nature of the disease would administer calomel in any
form or combination; but the anodyne mixture as an enema, and also administered by the mouth,
is the only medicine from which benefit can be expected.

COSTIVENESS

is a disease when it becomes habitual. It is connected with disease of the intestinal canal.
Many dogs have a dry constipated habit, often greatly increased by the bones on which they
are too frequently fed. This favours the disposition to mange and to many diseases depending
on morbid secretions. It produces indigestion, encourages worms, blackens the teeth, and causes
fetid breath. The food often accumulates in the intestines, and the consequence is inflammation
of these organs. A dog should never be suffered to remain costive more than a couple of days.
An aloetic ball or some Epsom salts should then be administered; and this failing to produce
the desired effect, the castor-oil mixture, with spirits of buckthorn and white poppies, should
be administered, and the use of the clyster-pipe resorted to. It may be necessary to introduce
the finger or the handle of a spoon when the faecal matter is more than usually hard, and it
is with difficulty broken down; small doses of castor-oil should be afterwards resorted to,
and recourse occasionally be had to boiled liver, which the dog will rarely refuse. The best
means, however, of preventing costiveness in dogs, as well as in men, is regular exercise.
A dog who is kept chained up in a kennel should be taken out and have a certain quantity of
exercise once in the twenty-four hours. When this cannot be done, the food should consist chiefly
of well-boiled farinaceous matter.

DROPSY

Another disease, which is not confined to the abdominal cavity, is dropsy: but, as in the dog
it most commonly assumes that form which is termed ascites, or dropsy of the abdomen, it may
be noticed in this place. It is seldom an idiopathic or primary affection, but is generally
the consequence of some other disease, most commonly of an inflammatory kind.

Dropsy is a collection of fluid in some part of the frame, either from increased exhalation,
or from diminished absorption, the consequence of inflammation. The divisions of dropsy are
into active and passive, or acute and chronic. The causes are also very properly arranged as
predisposing and exciting. The diseases on which dropsy most frequently supervenes are fevers
and visceral inflammations and obstructions. The dog is peculiarly subject to 'ascites' or
'dropsy of the belly', and the quantity of fluid contained in the abdomen is sometimes almost
incredible. It is usually accompanied or characterised by a weak, unequal, small, and frequent
pulse--paleness of the lips, tongue, and gums--flaccidity of the muscles, hurried breathing
on the least exertion, feebleness of the joints, swellings of the lower limbs, effusion of
fluid into the integuments or among the muscles, before there is any considerable effusion
into the thorax or the abdomen, and an unhealthy appearance of the cutaneous surface. The urine
seldom coagulates. This form of dropsy is usually seated in the abdomen or cellular tissue.

The treatment of ascites is seldom perfectly successful. The great extent of the peritoneum,
the number and importance of the viscera with which it is connected, and of the absorbent glands
which it encloses, the number and weakness of the veins which transmit their blood to the portal
vessels, and the absence of valves, in some measure account for the frequent accumulation of
fluid in this cavity. It appears in both sexes from the usual causes of inflammatory disease.
Unwholesome diet, the drastic operation of purgatives, external injuries, the suppression of
accustomed secretions and discharges, all are exciting causes of dropsy.

The animal has suffered materially from mange, which has been apparently cured: the itchiness
and eruption altogether disappear, but many weeks do not elapse ere ascites begins to be seen,
and the abdomen is gradually distended with fluid. When this appears in young and healthy animals,
it may be conquered; but when there has been previous disease of almost any kind, comparatively
few patients permanently recover. Irritability of the stomach, and a small and accelerated
pulse, are unfavourable. If the operation of tapping has taken place, at all times there is
danger; but, if there is a thick, brown, albuminous or fetid discharge, it is very unlikely
that any permanent advantage will result from the operation.

We will introduce a few cases as they occur in our clinical records.

'November 7th, 1821'.--A spaniel, nine years old, had been, during four months, alternately
asthmatic or mangy, or both. Within the last few days she had apparently increased in size.
I was sent for. The first touch of the abdomen betrayed considerable fluctuation. She likewise
had piles, sore and swelled. I ordered an alterative ball to be given morning and night.

'8th'. One of the balls has been given, and two doses of castor oil; but no effect has been
produced. An injection was administered.

'9th'. A small evacuation of water has been produced, and the bowels have been slightly opened.
Give a dose of the castor-oil mixture.

'10th'. The obstruction has been removed; the enlargement is somewhat diminished; much water
has passed. Give an alterative ball every morning.

'14th'. The alteratives have been continued, and there is a slow but evident decrease of the
abdomen.

'18th'. I cannot detect any effusion in the abdomen. Give a pill every alternate day for a
fortnight. At the expiration of this period the dog was apparently well.

'April 23d', 1822.--A terrier, ten years old, had cough and mange, which ceased. The belly
for the first time began to enlarge, and on feeling the dog considerable fluctuation was evident.
He would not eat, but he drank immoderately. Give daily a ball consisting of tonic and physic
mist., with powdered digitalis and tartrate of iron.

'May 6th'.--He is in better spirits, feeds tolerably well, but is rather increased in size.
Give daily a ball of tartrate of iron, digitalis, ginger, and a grain of calomel.

22'd'. Much thinner, the belly very considerably diminished: a slight fluctuation is still
to be perceived. Continue medicine, with a half-grain only of calomel.

'July 17th'.--The medicine has been regularly given, and the water of the abdomen has rapidly
disappeared, until a fortnight ago: since that time it has been once more filling. The medicine
was ordered to be repeated.

'August 6th'.--The medicine has once more produced its proper effect, and the fluid has disappeared.

On the '16th', however, the fluctuation was again too plainly felt, and the owner determined
to have nothing more to do with the case. The animal was never brought again, nor could I trace
it. The dog might have been saved if the owner had done it justice.

As soon as dropsy appears to be established, proper medicines must be resorted to. Foxglove,
nitre, and ginger should be first tried in the proportional doses of one, ten, and eight grains,
given morning and night. If this does not succeed, iodine from half-a-grain to a grain may
be given morning and night, and a weak solution of iodine rubbed on the belly.

This being ineffectual, recourse may be had to tapping, taking care that the trocar is not
plunged sufficiently deep to wound the intestines. The place for the operation is directly
on the 'linea alba', or middle line of the belly, and about midway between the pubis and the
navel. The whole of the intestinal fluid may be suffered to escape. A bandage should then be
applied round the belly, and retained there a week or more.

Mr. Blaine very properly states, that the difference between fatness and dropsy is, that the
belly hangs pendulous in dropsy, while the back bone stands up, and the hips are protruded
through the skin; while the hair is rough, and the feeling of the coat is peculiarly harsh.
It may be distinguished from pregnancy by the teats enlarging, in the latter case, as gestation
advances, and the young ones may occasionally be felt to move. In addition to this it may be
stated, that the presence of water is readily and unerringly detected. If the right hand is
laid on one side of the belly, and the other side is gently struck with the left hand, an undulating
motion will be readily perceived.

In old dogs, dropsy, under the title of "anasarca," is an unfrequent but occasional accompaniment
of ascites. If pressure is made on any particular parts, they yield and continue depressed
for a longer or shorter period of time, and slowly and by degrees regain their natural form.
The skin is dry and distended, and with no natural action; the circulation is languid and small,
the muscular powers are diminished, the animal is unquiet, the thirst is great, the tongue
is pale, the appetite diminished, and the limbs are swelled. The best mode, of treatment is
the infliction of some very small punctures in the distended skin, and the application of gentle
friction. The majority of cases of this kind are usually fatal, and so is almost every case
of encysted dropsy.

A dog had cough in February, 1825. Various medicines were administered, and at length the cough
almost suddenly ceased, and evident ascites appeared. The thirst was insatiable, the dog would
not touch food, and he was unable to lie down more than two minutes at a time.

Digitalis, cream of tartar, and hydrarg. submur. were given on the 9th April.

On the 13th he was much worse, and apparently dying. He had been unable to rise for the last
twelve hours, and lay panting. I punctured the abdomen, and four quarts of fluid were evacuated.

'14th'. The panting continues. The dog will not eat, but he can lie down in any posture.

'15th'. The panting is diminished, the appetite is returning, and water continues to ooze from
the wound,

'17th'. The wound healed on the night of the 15th, and already the fluid begins to collect.
The medicine still continued.

'20th'. The spirits good, and strength improving; but the belly is evidently filling, and matter
is discharged from both the nose and eyes.

'26th'. The swelling a little diminished, respiration easy, and the dog walking comfortably
about, and feeding well.

'May 13th'.--The swelling, which for some days past diminished, is now again increasing; but
the dog is strong and breathes easily. Medicine as before.

'24th.'. The dog is thinner, weaker, filling fast, and the thirst excessive. [Symbol: Rx]:
Crem. tart., ferri tart. [Symbol: ounce] ij., pulv. flor. anthemid. [Symbol: ounce] iiij.,
conser. ros. q. s.: divide in bol. xii.: cap. in dies.

'27th'. During two days he has been unable to lie down more than a minute at a time. Again
tapped: fully as much fluid was evacuated as before; but there is now blood mingling with it.

30th. Much relieved by the tapping, and breathes with perfect ease; but, now that the enormous
belly is reduced, the dog is very thin. Bol. continued.

June 8th. Within the last three days the animal has filled again with extraordinary rapidity.
[Symbol: Rx;]: Ferr. tart. [Symbol: scruple] j., opii. gr. 1/4, pulv. gentianae [Symbol: scruple]
j., cons. ros. q. s.: f. bol. capiend. in dies.

13th. Is again strangely distended; I advised, or rather solicited, that it might be destroyed;
but this not being granted, I once more tapped him. At least a gallon of dark-coloured fluid
was evacuated.

22d. Again rapidly filling, but not losing either flesh or strength.

July 4th.--Once more punctured, and a gallon of dark-coloured fluid evacuated.

12th. Again filling and rapidly losing flesh and strength.

26th. Once more tapped: immediately after which he appeared to be revived, but almost immediately
began again to fill.

Aug. 2d.--He had eaten tolerably; appeared to have nothing more than usual the matter with
him, when, being missed for an hour, he was found dead. No examination was permitted.

In 1824 a spaniel, six years old, was brought to the infirmary. It had had an asthmatic cough,
which had left it. It was now hollow in the flanks, the belly pendulous, and an evident fluctuation
of water. The owner would not consent to any operation. An aloetic physic-ball, however, was
given every fifth day, and a ball, composed of tartrate of iron, digitalis, nitre, and antimonial
powder, on every intermediate morning and night. The water evidently accumulated; the dog was
sent for, and died in the course of a week.

There are a few medicines that may be useful in arresting the effusion of the fluid; but they
too often fail in producing any considerable benefit. The fox-glove is, perhaps, possessed
of the greatest power, combined with nitre, squills, and bitartrate of potash. At other times
chamomile, squills, and spirit of nitrous ether, may be tried.

The following case, treated by the administration of iodine, by Professor Dick, is important:--

A black and tan coloured retriever was sent to me labouring under ascites. He was tapped, and
two quarts of fluid abstracted. Tonics, combined with diuretics were given, but the fluid continued
to accumulate, and in three weeks he was again tapped, and another two quarts drawn away. The
disease still went on, and a fortnight afterwards a similar quantity was withdrawn. Various
remedies were tried in order to check the power of the disease, but without effect, and the
abdomen again became as much distended with the effused serum as before.

He was then put under a course of iodine, which soon began to show its beneficial influence
by speedily allaying his excessive thirst; and in about a month the whole of the effused fluid
was absorbed, although from the size of the abdomen it must have amounted to a similar quantity
to that drawn off on the previous occasions. The dog's appetite soon returned; he gained flesh
rapidly, and has continued quite well, and, from being a perfect skeleton, soon became overloaded
with fat.

Induced by the great benefit derived in this case from the iodine, I took the opportunity of
trying it on a Newfoundland dog similarly affected. He was put on a course of iodine, and the
quantity of the drug was gradually increased. As absorption rapidly commenced, the fluid was
completely taken up; but, partly in consequence of pushing the medicine too far, and partly
from extensive disease in the liver, unfavourable symptoms took place, and he sunk rather unexpectedly.
Still, however, from the obvious and decided advantage derived from the medicine, I have no
doubt that iodine will be found one of the most efficient remedies in dropsy in dogs.

Iodine is a truly valuable drug. When first introduced into veterinary practice it was observed
that it readily accomplished the reduction of the enlarged glands that frequently remain after
catarrh; but it was presently evident that it reduced almost every kind of tumour, even the
growth of tubercles in the lungs. Professor Morton, in his Manual of Pharmacy, has admirably
described the different combinations of iodine.

THE LIVER

of the dog seems to follow a law of comparative anatomy, that its bulk shall be in an inverse
proportion of that of the lungs. The latter are necessarily capacious; for they need a large
supply of arterial blood, in order to answer to their rapid expenditure when the utmost exertion
of strength and speed is required. The liver is, therefore, restricted in its size and growth.
Nevertheless, it has an important duty to fulfil, namely, to receive the blood that is returned
from the intestines, to separate from the blood, or to secrete, by means of it, the bile; and
then to transmit the remaining portion of it to the lungs, where it undergoes the usual process
of purification, and is changed to arterial blood. In the performance of this office, the liver
often undergoes a state of inflammation, and disease ensues, inveterate, and setting at defiance
every means of cure. Both the skin and the urine become tinged with a yellow effusion. The
animal is dull, and gradually wastes away.

In a few days the yellow hue becomes more intense, and particularly on the cuticle, the conjunctiva,
the iris, the gums, and the lips. A state of fever becomes more and more perceptible, and there
are alternations of cold and heat. The pulse varies from 80 to 120; the dry tongue hangs from
the mouth; the appetite ceases, but the animal is peculiarly desirous of cold water. The dog
becomes restless; he seeks to hide himself; and he groans, if the parts in the neighbourhood
of the liver are pressed upon.

Frequent vomitings now appear, slimy, and evidently containing gall. The animal becomes visibly
thinner, obstinately refuses all solid food, and only manifests thirst. He begins to stagger
as he walks; he withdraws himself from observation; he anxiously seeks some dark place where
he may lay himself with his chest and belly resting on the cold ground, his fore legs stretched
out before him, and his hind legs almost as far behind him. The fever increases, the skin becomes
of a dark yellow colour, the mucous membrane of the mouth and conjunctiva is of a dirty red,
the expired air is evidently hot, the gaze is anxious, the urine is of a saffron yellow, or
even darker: in short, there now appears every symptom of inflammation of the liver, with jaundice.

As the disease proceeds the animal begins to vomit masses of a yellowish green substance, occasionally
mixed with blood. He wastes away to a skeleton, he totters in his walk, he is half unconscious,
the pulse becomes weak and interrupted, the temperature sinks, and death ensues.

The duration and course of the disease are deceptive. It occasionally proceeds so insidiously
that several days are suffered to pass before the owner perceives any marks of disease, or
seeks any aid. The duration of the disease is usually from ten to twelve days. It terminates
in congestion of blood in the liver, or a gradual restoration to health. The latter can only
take place in cases where the inflammation has proceeded very slowly; where the commencement
and progress of the disease could be discovered by debility and slight yellowness of the skin,
and especially where speedy recourse has been had to medical aid.

The predisposing causes of this disease are often difficult to discover. The dog, in warm climates,
seems to have a natural disposition to it. As exciting causes, atmospheric influence may be
reckoned, sultry days, cold nights, and damp weather. Other occasional causes may be found
in violent falls, bruises, and overfeeding. Fat petted dogs that are easily overheated by exertion
are often attacked by this disease. The result of the disease depends on its duration, course,
and complication. If it is attended to early, it can generally be cured. If it has existed
for several days, and the fever has taken on a typhoid character--if the yellow hue is perceptible--the
appetite failing, and vomiting ensuing, the cure is doubtful; and, if inflammation of the stomach
has taken place, with high fever, vomiting of blood, wasting away, and fits occurring, there
is no chance of cure.

When simple jaundice alone is visible, a moderate laxative of sulphate of magnesia and tartaric
acid, in conjunction with some aromatic and mucilaginous fluid, or, quite in the beginning
of the disease, an emetic, will be found of considerable service; but, when the yellow colour
has become more intense, and the animal will no longer eat, and the fever and weakness are
increased, it is necessary to give calomel, tartar-emetic, camphor, and opium, in the form
of pills, and to rub some strong liniment on the region of the liver: the doses of calomel,
however, must be very small. If inflammation of the stomach appears, mucilaginous fluids only
must be given. Bleeding may be of service in the commencement of the disease, but afterward
it is hurtful.

This is an account of hepatitis as it occasionally appears, and particularly on the Continent;
but it does not often assume so virulent a character in our country. There is often restlessness,
thirst, and sickness, accompanied by much prostration of strength; or general heat and tenderness.
Occasionally there is purging; but much oftener constipation, that bids defiance to almost
every medicine. The principal or almost only hope of cure consists in bleeding, physicking,
and blistering on the right side.

Of bilious disease, assuming the character of inflammation, we have too many cases. It may
be spontaneous or brought on by the agency of other affections. Long-continued and inveterate
mange will produce it. It is often connected with, or produced by, distemper, or a dull inflammatory
disease of the liver, and it is generally accompanied by pustular eruption on the belly. The
skin is usually tinged of a yellow hue, and the urine is almost invariably impregnated with
bile. The suffusion which takes place is recognised among sportsmen by the term "yellows."
The remedy should be some mercurial, with gentian and aloes given twice in the day, and mercurial
ointment well rubbed in once in the day. If this treatment is steadily pursued, and a slight
soreness induced in the mouth, the treatment will usually be successful. Mr. Blaine observes,

  "A moderate soreness of the mouth is to be encouraged and kept up. I
  have never succeeded in removing the complaint without it."

JAUNDICE.

M. W. Leblanc, of Paris, has given an interesting account of the causes and treatment of 'jaundice'
in the dog.

The prevailing symptom of this disease in the dog is a yellow discoloration of the skin and
the mucous membranes of greater or less intensity. It generally announces the existence of
very serious disease, as inflammation of the liver and its excretory ducts, or of the gall-bladder,
or the stomach, or small intestines, or contraction or 'obliteration' of the excretory ducts
of the liver, in consequence of inflammation of these vessels, or the presence of concrete
substances formed from the bile. The dogs in which he found the most decided traces of this
disease laboured under diarrhea, with stools of a reddish brown or black colour for one, two
or three days.

The causes of jaundice are chiefly over-fatigue (thus, greyhounds are more subject to it than
pointers), immersions in water, fighting, emetics or purgatives administered in over-doses,
the repeated use of poisonous substances not sufficiently strong at once to destroy the animal,
the swallowing of great quantities of indigestible food, and contusions of the abdominal viscera,
especially about the region of the liver. The most serious, if not the most common cause, is
cold after violent and long-continued exercise; and especially when the owners of dogs, seeing
them refuse their food after a long chase, give them powerful purgatives or emetics.

The treatment should have strict relation to the real or supposed cause of jaundice, and its
most evident concomitant circumstances. Some of these symptoms are constant and others variable.
Among the first, whatever be the cause of the disease, we reckon acceleration of the pulse;
fever, with paroxysms of occasional intensity; and a yellow or reddish-yellow discoloration
of the urine. Among the second are constipation, diarrhoea, the absence or increase of colour
in the faecal matter, whether solid or fluid. When they are solid, they are usually void of
much colour; when, on the contrary, there is diarrhea, the faeces are generally mingled with
blood more or less changed. Sometimes the dejections are nearly black, mixed with mucus. It
is not unusual for a chest affection to be complicated with the lesions of the digestive organs,
which are the cause of jaundice.

With these leading symptoms there are often others connected that are common to many diseases;
such as dryness and heat of the mouth, a fetid smell, a staggering gait, roughness of the hair,
and particularly of that of the back; an insatiable thirst, accompanied by the refusal of all
food; loss of flesh, which occasionally proceeds with astonishing rapidity; a tucked-up flank,
with hardness and tenderness of the anterior part of the belly.

The jaundice which is not accompanied with fever, nor indeed with any morbid change but the
colour of the skin, will require very little treatment. It will usually disappear in a reasonable
time, and M. Leblanc has not found that any kind of treatment would hasten that disappearance.

When any new symptom becomes superadded to jaundice, it must be immediately combated. Fever,
injection of the vessels of the conjunctiva, constipation, diarrhoea, or the discoloration
of the urine, require one bleeding at least, with some mucilaginous drinks. Purgatives are
always injurious at the commencement of the disease.

  "I consider," says M. Leblanc, "this fact to be of the utmost
  importance. Almost the whole of the dogs that have been brought to me
  seriously ill with jaundice, have been purged once or more; and either
  kitchen salt, or tobacco, or jalap, or syrup of buckthorn, or emetic
  tartar, or some unknown purgative powders, have been administered.

  "Bleeding should be resorted to, and repeated if the fever continues,
  or the animal coughs, or the respiration be accelerated. When the
  pulse is subdued, and the number of pulsations are below the natural
  standard--if the excrements are still void of their natural colour--if
  the constipation continues, or the animal refuses to feed--an ounce of
  manna dissolved in warm water should be given, and the dog often
  drenched with linseed tea. If watery diarrhoea should supervene, and
  the belly is not hot nor tender, a drachm or more, according to the
  size of the dog, of the sulphate of magnesia or soda should be
  administered, and this medicine should be repeated if the purging
  continues; more especially should this aperient be had recourse to
  when the faeces are more or less bloody, there being no fever nor
  peculiar tenderness of the belly.

  "When the liquid excrement contains much blood, and that blood is of a
  deep colour, all medicines given by the mouth should be suspended, and
  frequent injections should be thrown up, consisting of thin starch,
  with a few drops of laudanum. Too much cold water should not be
  allowed in this stage of the disease. Injections, and drinks composed
  of starch and opium, are the means most likely to succeed in the black
  diarrhoea, which is so frequent and so fatal, and which almost always
  precedes the fatal termination of all the diseases connected with
  jaundice.

  "In simple cases of jaundice the neutral salts have seldom produced
  much good effect; but I have obtained considerable success from the
  diascordium, in doses of half a drachm to a drachm.

  "Great care should be taken with regard to the diet of the dog that
  has had jaundice, with bloody or black diarrhoea; for the cases of
  relapse are frequent and serious and almost always caused by improper
  or too abundant food. A panada of bread, with a little butter, will
  constitute the best nourishment when the dog begins to recover his
  appetite. From this he may be gradually permitted to return to his
  former food. Most especially should the animal not be suffered to take
  cold, or to be left in a low or damp situation. This attention to the
  food of the convalescent dog may be thought to be pushed a little too
  far; but experience has taught me to consider it of the utmost
  importance, and it is neither expensive nor troublesome."

THE SPLEEN AND PANCREAS.

The spleen is generally regarded as an appendage to the absorbent system. Tiedemann and Gmelin
consider that its specific function is to secrete from the blood a fluid which possesses the
property of coagulation, and which is carried to the thoracic duct, and then, being united
with the chyle, converts it into blood, and causes an actual communication between the arterial
and absorbent systems. According, however, to Dr. Bostock, there is a fatal objection to this,
namely, that animals have been known to live an indefinite length of time after the removal
of the spleen, without any obvious injury to their functions, which could not have been the
case if the spleen had been essentially necessary for so important a process.

A knowledge of the diseases of the spleen in the dog appears to be less advanced than in any
other animal. In the cases that I have seen, the earliest indications were frequent vomiting,
and the discharge of a yellow, frothy mucus. The animal appeared uneasy, shivering, the ears
cold, the eyes unnaturally protuberant, the nostrils dilated, the flanks agitated, the respiration
accelerated, and the mucous membranes pale. The best treatment I know is the administration,
twice in the day, of a ball composed of a grain of calomel and the same quantity of aloes,
and five grains of ginger. The dog frequently cries out, both when he is moved and when he
lies on his bed. In the course of three days the yellow mucus is generally disappearing, and
the expression of pain is materially diminished.

If the bowels are much constipated after two days have passed, two scruples of aloes may be
given, and a grain of calomel; frequent injections may also be administered.

We are almost totally ignorant of the functions of the 'pancreas'. It probably is concerned
in assimilating the food, and converting the chyme of the stomach into chyle.

INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEY

is a serious and dangerous malady. This organ is essentially vascular in its texture; and although
it is small in volume, yet, on account of the quantity of blood which it contains, and the
rapidity with which its secretions are performed, it is disposed to frequent and dangerous
inflammation. The immediate causes of inflammatory action in this viscus are blows and contusions
in the lumbar region; hard work long continued, and the imprudent use of stimulating substances
employed as aphrodisiacs; the presence of calculi in the kidney, and the arrest of the urine
in the bladder. The whole of the kidney may be affected with anaemia or defect of blood, or
this may be confined to the cortical substance, or even to the tubular. The kidneys are occasionally
much larger than usual, without any other change of structure; or simple hypertrophy may affect
but one of them. They are subject to atrophy, which may be either general or partial; or one
of the kidneys may be completely wanting, and this evidently the consequence of violence or
disease.

Hydatids, though seldom met with in the human kidney, are not unfrequently found in that of
the dog. All these are circumstances that have not received sufficient attention.

CALCULOUS CONCRETIONS

are of more frequent occurrence than is generally imagined, but they are not confined to the
kidneys; there is scarcely a portion of the frame in which they have not been found, particularly
in the brain, the glandular substance, and the coats of the intestines.

I cannot say with Mr. Blaine that I have seen not less than 40 or 50 calculi in my museum;
but I have seen too many fearful examples of the complaint. There has been usually great difficulty
in the urinary evacuation; and at length one of the calculi enters the urethra, and so blocks
up the flow of the urine that mortification ensues.

M. Lautour relates a case of renal calculus in a dog. He had occasionally voided his urine
with some difficulty, and had walked slowly and with evident pain. August 30, 1827, a sudden
exacerbation came on, and the dog was dreadfully agitated. He barked and rolled himself on
the ground almost every minute; be made frequent attempts to void his urine, which came from
him drop by drop. When compelled to walk, his hind and fore legs seemed to mingle together,
and his loins were bent into a perfect curve; his flanks were drawn in; he could scarcely be
induced to eat; and he evidently suffered much in voiding his faeces. Mild and demulcent liquids
were his only food. Warm baths and injections were applied almost unceasingly, and in eight
days he seemed to have perfectly gained his health.

In March, in the following year, the symptoms returned with greater intensity. His hind limbs
were dragged after him; he rapidly lost flesh, and his howlings were fearful and continuous.
The same mode of treatment was adopted without any good effect, and, his cries continuing,
he was destroyed.

The stomach and intestines were healthy. The bladder was enlarged from the thickness and induration
of its parietes; the mucous membrane of it was covered with ecchymoses; the kidneys were three
or four times their natural size; and the pelvis contained a calculus weighing 126 grains,
composed of 58 grains of uric acid and 58 of ammonia, with 10 grains of phosphate of lime.

Of the nature and causes of urinary calculi in the bladder we know very little. We only know
that some solid body finds its way or is formed there, gradually increases in size, and at
length partially or entirely occupies the bladder. Boerhaave has given a singular and undeniable
proof of this. He introduced a small round pebble into the bladder of a dog. The wound perfectly
healed. A few months afterwards the animal was killed, and there was found a calculus of considerable
size, of which the pebble was the nucleus.

Occasionally the pressure of the bladder on the calculus which it contains is exceedingly great,
so much so, indeed, as to crush the calculus. A small calculus may sometimes be forcibly extracted,
or cut down upon and removed; but when the calculus is large, a catheter or bougie must be
passed up the penis as far as the curve in the urethra, and then somewhat firmly held with
the left hand, and pressing against the urethra. A scalpel should be taken, and an incision
made into the urethra. The catheter being now withdrawn, and the finger or a pair of forceps
introduced into the bladder, the calculus may be grasped and extracted.

There are some instances in which as many as 20 or 30 small calculi have been taken from the
bladder of a dog. Twice I have seen calculi absolutely crushed in the bladder of a dog; and
Mr. Blaine says that he found no fewer than 40 or 50 in the bladder of a Newfoundland dog.
One of them had passed out into the urethra, and had so blocked up the passage that the flow
of urine was prevented, and the animal died of mortification.

With much pleasure I refer to the details of Mr. Blaine with regard to the management of 'vesical
calculi'.

  "When a small calculus," says he, "obstructs the urethra, and can be
  felt, it may be attempted to be forced forward through the urethra to
  the point of the penis, whence it may be extracted by a pair of
  forceps. If it cannot be so moved, it may be cut down upon and removed
  with safety; but when one or more stones are within the bladder, we
  must attempt lithotomy, after having fully satisfied ourselves of
  their existence there by the introduction of the sound; to do which it
  must be remembered that the urethra of the dog in passing the bladder
  proceeds nearly in a direct line backwards, and then, making an acute
  angle, it passes again forwards to the bladder. It must be therefore
  evident, that when it becomes necessary to introduce a catheter,
  sound, or bougie, it must first be passed up the penis to the
  extremity of this angle; the point of the instrument must then be cut
  down upon, and from this opening the instrument may be readily passed
  forward into the bladder. The examination made, and a stone detected,
  it may, if a very small one, be attempted to be pushed forward by
  means of a finger passed up the anus into the urethra; but, as this
  could be practicable only where the dog happened to be a large one, it
  is most probable that nothing short of the operation of lithotomy
  would succeed. To this end, the sound being introduced, pass a very
  small gorget, or otherwise a bistoury, along its groove into the
  bladder, to effect an opening sufficient to admit of the introduction
  of a fine pair of forceps, by which the stone may be laid up and
  extracted."
  'Blaine's Canine Pathology', p. 180.

INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER

is of frequent occurrence in the dog; it is also occasionally observed in the horse and the
ox. It sometimes appears as an epizootic. It is generally announced by anxiety, agitation,
trembling of the hinder limbs, frequent attempts to urine, vain efforts to accomplish it, the
evacuation small in quantity, sometimes clear and aqueous, and at other times mucous, laden
with sediment, thick and bloody, escaping by jets, painfully and with great difficulty, and
then suddenly rushing out in great quantity. To this list of symptoms colic may often be added.
The animal drinks with avidity, but seldom eats much, unless at the commencement of the complaint.
The skin is hard and dry, he looks at his flanks, and his back and flanks are tender when pressed
upon.

During the latter portion of my connexion with Mr. Blaine, this disease assumed an epidemic
character. There was a great drought through almost every part of the country. The disease
was characterised by general uneasiness; continual shifting of the posture; a tucked-up appearance;
an anxious countenance; a quick and noisy pulse; continued panting; the urine voided in small
quantities, sometimes discharged drop by drop, or complete stoppage of it. The belly hot, swelled,
and tender to the touch; the dog becoming strangely irritable, and ready to bite even his master.

'1st May', 1824.--Two dogs had been making ineffectual attempts to void their urine for nearly
two days. The first was a terrier, and the other a Newfoundland. The terrier was bled, placed
in a warm bath, and an aloetic ball, with calomel, administered. He was bled a second time
in the evening, and a few drops of water were discharged. On the following day, the urine slowly
passed involuntarily from him; but when he attempted to void any, his efforts were totally
ineffectual. Balls composed of camphor, pulv. uva ursi, tinct. ferri mur., mass purg., and
pulv. lini. et gum. arab., were administered morning, noon, and night.

On the 5th the urine still passed involuntarily. Cold lotions were employed, and tonic and
astringent medicines administered, with castor oil. He gradually got well, and no trace of
the disease remained until June the 6th, when he again became thin and weak, and discharged
much bloody urine, but apparently without pain. The uva ursi, oak bark, and powdered gum-arabic
were employed.

On the 12th he had become much better, and so continued until the 1st of July, when he again
exhibited the same complaint more violently than before.  He was exceedingly tender on the
loins, and screamed when he was touched. He was bled, returned to his uva ursi and powdered
gum, and recovered. I saw him two years afterwards apparently well.

The Newfoundland dog exhibited a similar complaint, with nearly the same accompaniments.

'May' 1.--He was disinclined to move; his belly was hard and hot, and he was supposed to be
costive. Gave an aloetic ball with iron.

2d. He has endeavoured, in vain, several times to void his urine. He walks stiffly with his
back bound. Subtract eight ounces of blood; give another physic-ball, and apply cold affusion
to the loins.

3d. He frequently attempts to stale, and passes a little urine at each time; he still walks
and stands with his back bound. Syr. papav. et rhamni, with tinct. ferr. mur., a large spoonful
being given morning and night.

4th. He again tries, ineffectually, to void his urine. Mist. et pulv.

5th. Unable to void a drop of urine; nose hot; tongue hangs down; pants considerably; will
not eat; the countenance has an anxious character. Bleed to twelve ounces; apply cold affusion.
Medicine as before, with cold affusion.

6th. Appears to be in very great pain; not a drop of water has passed from him. Medicine and
other treatment as before. In the evening he lay down quietly. On the next morning he was found
dead. All the viscera were sound except the bladder, which was ruptured; the abdomen contained
two quarts of bloody fluid. The mucous membrane of the bladder appeared to be in the highest
state of inflammation. It was almost black with extravasated blood. On the neck of the bladder
was an enlargement of the size of a goose's egg, and almost filling the cavity of the pelvis.
On cutting into it, more than two ounces of pus escaped.

On June 29, 1833, a poodle was brought to me. He had not been observed to pass any urine for
two days. He made frequent attempts to void it, and cried dreadfully. The bladder could be
felt distended in the abdomen. I put him into a warm bath, and took from him a pound of blood.
He seemed to be a little relieved. I did not leave him until after midnight, but was soon roused
by his loud screams, and the dog was also retching violently. The cries and retching gradually
abated, and he died. The bladder had burst, and the parietes were in a dreadful state of inflammation.

A dog had laboured under incontinence of urine more than two months. The water was continually
dropping from him. The servant told me that, three months before, he had been shut into a room
two days, and, being a cleanly animal, would not stale until he was liberated. Soon after that
the incontinence of urine was observed. I gave the usual tonic balls, with a small portion
of opium, night and morning, and ordered cold water to be frequently dashed on the perinaeum.
A month afterwards he was quite well.

Comparatively speaking, 'profuse staling' is not a common disease, except when it is the consequence
of bad food, or strong diuretics, or actual inflammation. The cause and the result of the treatment
are often obscure. Bleeding, purging, and counter irritation, would be indicated to a certain
extent, but the lowering system must not be carried too far. The medicine would probably be
catechu, uva ursi, and opium.

At times blood mingles with the urine, with or without coagulation. The cause and the source
of it may or may not be determined. Generally speaking it is the result of some strain or blow.

A terrier bitch, in January, 1820, had incontinence of urine. No swelling or injury could be
detected. I used with her the simple tonic balls.

10th January'.--She is now considerably better, and only a few drops are observed.

2d February'.--The disease which had seemingly been conquered began again to reappear; the
medicine had been neglected. Again have recourse to it.

4'th March'.--The disease now appears to be quite checked by the cold lotion and the balls.

A CASE OF RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER

This is a singular account, and stands almost alone.

The patient was a valuable spaniel belonging to that breed known as "The Duke of Norfolk's,"
and now possessed in its full perfection by the Earl of Albemarle. Professor Simonds shall
give his own account:

I was informed that almost from a puppy to the time when he was two years old, the dog had
always been delicate in his appearance, and was observed to void his urine with difficulty;
but there were not sufficient indications of disease for the owner to suppose that medical
attendance was necessary until within a few days of his death, and then, finding that the act
of staling was effected with increased difficulty, and accompanied with extreme pain; that
the dog refused his food, was feverish; that at length there were frequent or ineffective efforts
to expel the urine, the dog crying out from extremity of pain, and it was sufficiently evident
that great mischief was going on, he was placed under my care; and even then he was walked
a mile and a half to my infirmary.

My attention was immediately directed to him; the man who brought him informing me that he
seemed much easier since he left home. On examination, I at once pronounced that he could not
recover; in fact, that he was rapidly sinking; but, from his then state, I could give no opinion
with regard to the precise nature or extent of his disease. He was placed upon a bed in an
appropriate apartment, with directions not to be disturbed, and in a few hours he died.

The 'post-mortem' appearances were the abdomen containing from four to five pints of fluid,
having much the character of, but more bloody than, that found in cases of ascites. The peritoneum
seemed to be dyed from its immersion in this fluid, as it showed a general red hue, not apparently
deeper in some parts than in others. There was an absence, to a great extent, of that beautiful
appearance and well-marked course of the minute blood-vessels which accompany many cases of
original peritonitis. Extending the examination, I found the bladder to be ruptured, and that
the fluid of which I have spoken was to a large extent composed of urine, mingled with some
other secretion from the peritoneal investure of the abdomen and its viscera, probably produced
from the presence of an irritant, the urine being brought into direct contact with the membrane.
Farther research showed that this rupture of the bladder was caused in the manner which I have
stated. The 'post-mortem' examination displayed a chronic enlargement of the prostate gland
of a considerable size, causing by its pressure a mechanical obstruction to the passage of
the urine. Death in this instance was not immediately brought about by the abnormal state of
the original organ affected; but the prostate gland, having early in the life of the animal
become diseased, and, being gradually increased in size, became a cause of still more serious
disease, attacking more important organs.

WORMS.

There are various kinds of worms to which the dog is subject; they have occasionally been confounded
with each other; but they are essentially different in the situations which they occupy, and
the effects which they produce.

The 'ascarides' are small thread-like worms, generally not more than six or ten lines in length,
of a white colour, the head obtuse, and the tail terminating in a transparent prolongation.
They are principally found in the rectum. They seem to possess considerable agility; and the
itching which they set up is sometimes absolutely intolerable. To relieve this, the dog often
drags the fundament along the ground.

All the domesticated animals are subject to the annoyance which these worms occasion. They
roll themselves into balls as large as a nut, and become entangled so much with each other
that it is difficult to separate them. Sometimes they appear in the stomach, and in such large
masses that it is almost impossible to remove them by the act of vomiting. It has been said
that packets of ascarides have been collected in the stomach containing more than one hundred
worms. These collections are rarely or never got entirely rid of. Enormous doses of medicine
may be given, and the worms may not be seen again for several weeks; but, at length, they reappear
as numerous as ever.

Young dogs are exceedingly subject to them, and are with great difficulty perfectly freed from
their attacks. Another species of worm is the 'teres'. It would resemble the earth-worm in
its appearance, were it not white instead of a red colour. They are very common among dogs,
especially young dogs, in whom they are often attended by fits. Occasionally they crawl into
the stomach, and there produce a great deal of irritation.

Another, and the most injurious of the intestinal worms, is the 'taenia', or 'tape-worm'. It
is many inches in length, almost flat in the greater part of its extent, and its two extremities
are nearly or quite equal. Tape-worms associate in groups like the others, but they are not
so numerous; they chiefly frequent the small intestines. They are sometimes apt to coil themselves,
and form a mechanical obstruction which is fatal to the dog.

The presence of all these worms is readily detected. There is generally a dry, short cough,
a staring coat, a hot and fetid breath, a voracious appetite, and a peculiar state of the bowels;
alternately constipated to a great degree, or peculiarly loose and griping. In young dogs the
emaciated appearance, stinted growth, fetid breath, and frequent fits, are indications not
to be mistaken.

At other times, however, the dog is filled with worms with scarcely any indication of their
presence. Mr. Blaine very properly remarks that it docs not follow, because no worms are seen
to pass away, that there are none: neither when they are not seen does it follow even that
none pass; for, if they remain long in the intestines after they are dead, they become digested
like other animal matter.

The means of expelling or destroying worms in the intestines of the dog are twofold: the first
and apparently the most natural mode of proceeding, is the administration of purgatives, and
usually of drastic ones; but there is much danger connected with this; not merely the faeces
will be expelled, but a greater or less portion of the mucus that lines the intestinal canal.
The consequence of this will be griping and inflammation to a very dangerous extent. Frequent
doses of Epsom salts have been given; but not always with success, and frequently with griping.
Mercurial medicines have been tried; but they have not always succeeded, and have often produced
salivation. One method of expelling the worm has been adopted which has rarely failed, without
the slightest mischief--the administration of glass finely powdered. Not a particle of it penetrates
through the mucus that lines the bowels, while it destroys every intestinal worm. The powdered
glass is made into a ball with lard and ginger.

The following account of the symptoms caused by taenia may be interesting. A dog used to be
cheerful, and particularly fond of his master; but gradually his countenance became haggard,
his eyes were red, his throat was continually filled with a frothy spume, and he stalked about
with an expression of constant inquietude and suffering. These circumstances naturally excited
considerable fear with regard to the nature of his disease, and he was shut up in a court,
with the intention of his being destroyed. Thus shut up, he furiously threw himself upon every
surrounding object, and tore them with his teeth whenever he could seize them. He retired into
one of the corners of the court, and there he was continually rubbing his nose, as it were
to extract some foreign body; sometimes he bit and tore up the earth, barking and howling violently;
his hair stood on end, and his flanks were hollow.

During the whole of his disease he continued to recognise his master. He ran to him at the
slightest word. He refused nothing to drink; but he would not eat. He was killed on account
of the fear excited among the neighbours.

The veterinary surgeon who attended him suspected that there was some affection of the head,
on account of the strange manner in which he had rubbed and beaten it. The superior part of
the nose was opened, and two taeniae; lanceolatae were found: it was plain enough that they
were the cause of all the mischief.

The proprietor of the dog nevertheless believed that it was a case of rabies; he had the caustic
applied to his hands, and could not persuade himself that he was safe until he had been at
the baths of Bourbonne. [4]

There is a worm inhabiting the stomach of young dogs, the 'Ascaris Marginata', a frequent source
of sickness and occasionally of spasmodic colic, by rolling itself into knots. It seems occasionally
to take a dislike to its assigned residence, and wanders into the oesophagus, but rarely into
the larger intestines. A dog had a severe cough, which could not be subdued by bleeding or
physic, or sedative or opiate medicines. He was destroyed, and one of these ascarides was found
in the trachea. Others find their way into the nasal cavity; and a dreadful source of irritation
they are when they are endeavouring to escape, in order to undergo one of the changes of form
to which they are destined, or when they have been forced into the nostril in the act of vomiting.

I once had a dog as a patient, whose case, I confess, I did not understand. He would sneeze
and snort, and rub his head and nose along the carpet. I happened to say that the symptoms
in some respects resembled those of rabies, and yet, that I could not satisfy myself that the
dog was rabid. The mention of rabies was sufficient, and in defiance of my remonstrances the
animal was destroyed.

The previous symptoms led me to examine the nasal cavity, and I found two of these ascarides,
one concealed in the middle and the other in the upper meatus, through neither of which could
any strong current of air be forced, and from which the ascarides could not be dislodged.

Worms may be the cause of sudden death in a dog. The following case, communicated by Professor
Dick, illustrates this fact:

I lately had the body of a dog sent to me: his owner sent the following letter by the same
conveyance.

  "My keeper went out shooting yesterday morning with the dog which I
  now send to you. He was quite lively, and apparently well, during the
  former part of the day; but towards evening he was seized with violent
  vomiting. When he came home he refused to eat, and this morning about
  eight o'clock he died. As I have lost all my best dogs rather
  suddenly, I will thank you to have him examined, and the contents of
  his stomach analyzed; and have the kindness to inform me whether he
  has been poisoned, or what was the cause of his death."

On opening the abdomen, the viscera appeared quite healthy: the stomach was removed, and the
contents were found to be more decidedly acid than usual. The acids were the muriatic and acetic:
the finding of an increased quantity of these is far from being unusual. There was not a trace
of arsenical, mercurial, nor any other metallic poison present. Of the vegetable poisons, I
can only say there was not the slightest trace of the morbid effects of any of them. The pericardium
and the left side of the thorax contained a small quantity of bloody serous fluid, and the
heart was full of black blood. The left lung was a little inflamed. The trachea contained some
frothy yellow mucous matter, similar to the contents of the stomach. In the larynx was found
one of those worms occasionally inhabiting the cavities of the nose, and which had probably
escaped from the nose while the dog had been hunting; and, lodging in the larynx, had destroyed
the animal by producing spasms of the larynx. The worm was about one inch and a half in length,
and had partly penetrated through the rima glottidis. Another worm about the same size was
found in the left bronchia, and a still smaller one among the mucus of the trachea: there were
also four others in the nose.

Some years ago I found some worms of the filacia species in the right ventricle of the heart
of a dog, which had produced sudden death by interrupting the action of the valves.

The following is a curious case of tape-worm, by Mr. Reynold:

On an estate where a great quantity of rabbits are annually destroyed in the month of November,
we have observed that several dogs that were previously in good health and condition soon became
weak, listless, and excessively emaciated, frequently passing large portions of the tape-worm.
This induced us to examine the intestines of several hares and rabbits; and, with, very few
exceptions, we found each to contain a perfect tape-worm three to four feet in length. We then
caused two of the dogs whose cases appeared the worst to be separated from the others, feeding
them on potatoes, &c.; and, in eight or ten days, after voiding several feet of the worms,
they were perfectly restored to their former strength and appearance. The worm disease, hitherto
so formidable to the spaniel and pointer, may in a great measure be fairly attributed to the
custom of giving them the intestines of their game, under the technical appellation of "the
paunch." The facts above stated, in explaining the cause of the disease, at the same time suggest
the remedy.

'A worm in the urethra of a dog'. M. Seon, veterinary surgeon of the Lancers of the Body Guard,
was requested to examine a dog who strained in vain to void his urine, often uttering dreadful
cries, and then eagerly licking his penis. M. Seon, after having tried in vain to abate the
irritation, endeavoured to pass an elastic bougie. He perceived a conical body half an inch
long protruding from the urethra with each effort of the dog to void his urine, and immediately
afterwards returning into the urethra. He crushed it with a pair of forceps, and drew it out.
It proved to be a worm resembling a strongylus, four and a half inches long. It was living,
and moving about. M. Seon could not ascertain its species. The worm being extracted, the urine
flowed, and the dog soon recovered. [5]

FISTULA IN THE ANUS.

This is a too frequent consequence of piles. It is often the result of the stagnation of hardened
faeces in the rectum, which produces inflammation and ulceration, and frequently leaves a fistulous
opening. If we may judge what the quadruped suffers by the sufferings of human beings, it is
a sadly painful affair, whether the fistula is external or internal. Whether it may be cured
by a mild stimulant daily inserted to the bottom of the abscess, or whether there is a communication
with the opening of the rectum which buries itself in the cellular tissues around it, and requires
an operation for its cure, it will require the assistance of a skilful surgeon to effect a
cure in this case.

[Footnote 1: Tetanus observed on a Dog, by M. Debeaux.--'Pract. Med. Vet.' 1829, p. 543]

[Footnote 2: 'Blaine's Canine Pathology', p. 151.]

[Footnote 3: 'Proceedings of the Veterinary Medical Association', 1839-40]

[Footnote 4: 'Prat. Med. Vet.' 1824, p. 14.]

[Footnote 5: 'Prat. Med. Vet.', Fev.

BLEEDING.

This operation is exceedingly useful in many accidents and diseases. It is, in fact, as in
the horse, the sheet-anchor of the practitioner in the majority of cases of an inflammatory
character. There is some difference, however, in the instrument to be used. The lancet is the
preferable instrument in the performance of this operation. The fleam should be banished from
among the instruments of the veterinary surgeon.

A ligature being passed round the lower part of the neck, and the head being held up a little
on one side, the vein will protrude on either side of the windpipe. It will usually be advisable
to cut away a little of the hair over the spot designed to be punctured. When a sufficient
quantity of blood is abstracted, it will generally be necessary, and especially if the dog
is large, to pass a pin through both edges of the orifice, and secure it with a little tow.

When no lancet is at hand, the inside of the flap of the ear may be punctured with a pen-knife,
the course of a vein being selected for this purpose. In somewhat desperate cases a small portion
of the tail may be amputated.

The 'superficial brachial vein', the 'cephalic' vein of the human subject, and the 'plat' vein
of the farrier, may be resorted to in all lamenesses of the fore limb, and especially in all
shoulder-wrenches, strains of the loins, and of the thigh and the leg, and muscular and ligamentous
extensions of any part of the hind limbs; the 'vena saphena major', and the 'anterior tibial'
vein may be punctured in such cases.

The quantity of blood to be abstracted must be regulated according to the size and strength
of the dog and the degree of inflammation.

One or two ounces may be sufficient for a very small dog, and seven or eight for a large one.

TORSION

To M. Amusat, of Paris, we are indebted for the introduction of the artery-forceps for the
arresting of hemorrhage. I shall do but justice to him by describing his mode of proceeding.
He seizes the divided vessel with a pair of torsion-forceps in such a manner as to hold and
close the mouth of the vessel in its teeth. The slide of the forceps then shuts its blade,
and the artery is held fast. The artery is then drawn from out of the tissues surrounding it,
to the extent of a few lines, and freed, with another forceps, from its cellular envelope,
so as to lay bare its external coat. The index and thumb of the left hand are then applied
above the forceps, in order to press back the blood in the vessel. He then begins to twist
the artery. One of the methods consists in continuing the torsion until the part held in the
forceps is detached. When, however, the operator does not intend to produce that effect, he
ceases, after from four to six revolutions of the vessel on its axis for the small arteries,
and from eight to twelve for the large ones. The hemorrhage instantly stops. The vessel which
had been drawn out is then replaced, as the surrounding parts give support to the knot which
has been formed at its extremities. The knot becomes further concealed by the retraction of
the artery, and this retraction will be proportionate to the shortening which takes place by
the effect of the twisting, so that it will be scarcely visible on the surface of the stump.
It is of the utmost importance to seize the artery perfectly, and to make the stated number
of twists, as otherwise the security against the danger of consecutive hemorrhage will not
be perfect.

Mr. W. B. Costello, of London, was present when the operation was performed at Paris. He brought
back a full account of it as performed there, and availed himself of an early opportunity of
putting it to the test before some of our metropolitan surgeons. A dog was placed on the table,
the forceps were applied, and the operation perfectly succeeded.

A few days afterwards a pointer bitch was brought to my infirmary, with a large scirrhous tumour
near the anterior teat on the left side. It had been gradually increasing during the last five
months. It was becoming more irregular in its form, and on one of its tuberculous prominences
was a reddish spot, soft and somewhat tender, indicating that the process of suppuration was
about to commence.

I had often, or almost uniformly, experienced the power of iodine in dispersing glandular enlargements
in the neck of the dog, and also those indurated tumours of various kinds which form about
the joints of some domesticated animals, particularly of cattle; but frequent disappointment
had convinced me that it was, if not inert, yet very uncertain in its effect in causing absorption
of tumours about the mammae of the bitch. Having also been taught that the ultimate success
of the excision of these enlargements depended on their removal before suppuration had taken
place, and the neighbouring parts had been inoculated by the virus which so plentifully flowed
from the ulcer, I determined on an immediate operation; and, as the tumour was large, and she
was in high condition, I thought it a good case for 'the first trial of torsion'. She was well
physicked, and on the third day was produced before my class and properly secured. I had not
provided myself with the 'torsion forceps', but relied on the hold I should have on the vessel
by means of a pair of common artery forceps; and the effect of imperfect instruments beautifully
established the power of torsion in arresting hemorrhage.

Two elliptical incisions were made on the face of the tumour, and prolonged anteriorly and
posteriorly about an inch from it. The portion of integument that could be spared was thus
enclosed, while the opposed edges of the wound could be neatly and effectually brought together
after the operation. The dissection of the integument from the remaining part of the face of
the tumour was somewhat slow and difficult, for it was in a manner identified with the hardened
mass beneath; but the operation soon proceeded more quickly, and we very soon had the scirrhus
exposed, and adhering to the thorax by its base. About two ounces of venous blood had now been
lost.

I was convinced that I should find the principal artery, by which the excrescence was fed,
at its anterior extremity, and not far from the spot where the suppuration seemed to be preparing:
therefore, beginning posteriorly, I very rapidly cut through the cellular texture, elevating
the tumour and turning it back, until I arrived at the inner and anterior point, and there
was the only source of supply; the artery was plainly to be seen. In order to give the experiment
a fair chance, I would not enclose it in the forceps, but I cut through it. A jet of blood
spirted out. I then seized the vessel as quickly as I could, and began to turn the forceps,
but before I could effect more than a turn and a half I lost my hold on the artery. I was vexed,
and paused, waiting for the renewed gush of blood that I might seize the vessel again; but
to my surprise not a drop more blood came from the arterial trunk. That turn and a half, considerable
pressure having been used, had completely arrested the hemorrhage. I can safely say that not
more than four drachms of arterial blood were lost.

The wound was sponged clean: there remained only a very slight oozing from two or three points;
the flaps were brought together, secured by the ordinary sutures, and the proper bandages applied.
The weight of the tumour was twenty-two ounces; there was no after-bleeding, no unpleasant
occurrences; but the wound, which had been nearly six inches in length, was closed in little
more than three weeks.

He will essentially promote the cause of science, and the cause of humanity, who will avail
himself of the opportunity which country practice affords of putting the effect of torsion
to the test: and few things will be more gratifying than the consciousness of rescuing our
patients from the unnecessary infliction of torture.

In docking, it will be found perfectly practicable: our patients will escape much torture,
and tetanus will often be avoided. The principal danger from castration has arisen from the
severity with which the iron has been employed. The colt, the sheep, and the dog will be fair
subjects for experiment. The cautery, as it regards the first, and the brutal violence too
frequently resorted to in operating upon the others, have destroyed thousands of animals.

CASTRATION.

This operation is performed on a great portion of our domestic animals. It renders them more
docile, and gives them a disposition to fatten. It is followed by fewest serious accidents
when it is performed on young animals. The autumn or spring should, if possible, be chosen
for the operation, for the temperature of the atmosphere is then generally uniform and moderate.
It should be previously ascertained that the animal is in perfect health; and he should be
prepared by a mash diet and bleeding, if he is in a plethoric state, or possessed of considerable
determination. If it is a young animal that is to be operated upon, an incision may be made
into the scrotum, the testicle may be protruded, and the cord cut without much precaution,
for the blood will soon be stayed; but for older animals it will be advisable to use a ligature,
applied moderately tightly round the spermatic cord a little more than an inch beyond its insertion
into the testicle; the scalpel is then used, and a separation effected between the ligature
and the testis. The vas derens needs not to be included; a great deal of pain will then be
spared to the animal.

The ordinary consequences of castration are pain, inflammation, engorgement, and suppuration.
The pain and suppuration are inevitable, but generally yield to emollient applications. The
engorgement is often considerable at first, but soon subsides, and the suppuration usually
abates in the course of a few days. It has been said that the castrated dog is more attached
and faithful to his master than he who has not been deprived of his genital powers: this, however,
is to be much doubted. He has, generally speaking, lost a considerable portion of his courage,
his energy, and his strength. He is apt to become idle, and is disposed to accumulate fat more
rapidly. His power of scent is also very considerably diminished and he is less qualified for
the sports of the field. Of this there can be no doubt. It has been said that he is more submissive:
I very much doubt the accuracy of that opinion. He may not be so savage as in his perfect state;
he may not be so eager in his feeding; but there is not the devotion to his master, and the
quickness of comprehension which belongs to the perfect dog.

The removal of the ovaries, or spaying of the female, used to be often practised, and packs
of spayed bitches were, and still are, occasionally kept. In performing this operation, an
opening is made into the flank on one side, and the finger introduced--one of the ovaries is
laid hold of and drawn a little out of the belly; a ligature is then applied round it, just
above the bifurcation of the womb, and it is cut through, the end of the ligature being left
hanging out of the wound. The other ovary is then felt for and drawn out, and excised and secured
by a ligature. The wound is then sewed up, and a bandage is placed over the incision. Some
farriers do not apply any ligature, but simply sew up the wound, and in the majority of cases
the edges adhere, and no harm comes of the operation, except that the general character of
the animal is essentially changed. She accumulates a vast quantity of fat, becomes listless
and idle, and is almost invariably short-lived.

The female dog, therefore, should always be allowed to breed. Breeding is a necessary process;
and the female prevented from it is sure to be affected with disease sooner or later; enormous
collections and indurations will form, that will inevitably terminate in scirrhus or ulceration.

A troublesome process often occurs when the female is not permitted to have young ones; namely,
the accumulation of milk in the teats, especially if at any previous time, however distant,
she may have had puppies once. The foundation is laid for many unpleasant and unmanageable
complaints. If she is suffered to bring up one litter after another, she will have better health
than those that are debarred from intercourse with the male.

The temporary union which takes placed between the male and female at the period at which they
are brought together is a very singular one. The corpora cavernosa of the male and the clitoris
of the female being suddenly distended with blood, it is impossible to withdraw either of them
until the turgescence of the parts has entirely ceased.

PARTURITION

The pupping usually takes place from the sixty-second to the sixty-fourth day; and the process
having commenced, from a quarter to three quarters of an hour generally takes place between
the production of each puppy.

Great numbers of bitches are lost every year in the act of parturition: there seems to be a
propensity in the females to associate with dogs larger than themselves, and they pay for it
with their lives. The most neglected circumstance during the period of pregnancy is the little
exercise which the mother is permitted to take, while, in point of fact, nothing tends more
to safe and easy parturition than her being permitted or compelled to take a fair quantity
of exercise.

When the time of parturition has arrived, and there is evident difficulty in producing the
foetus, recourse should be had to the ergot of rye, which should be given every hour or half
hour, according to circumstances. If after a certain time some, although little, progress has
been made, the ergot must be continued in smaller doses, or perhaps suspended for a while;
but, if all progress is evidently suspended, recourse must be had to the hook or the forceps.
By gentle but continued manipulation much may be done, especially when the muzzle of the puppy
can be brought into the passage. As little force as possible must be used, and especially the
foetus little broken. Many a valuable animal is destroyed by the undue application of force.

If the animal seems to be losing strength, a small quantity of laudanum and ether may be administered.

  "The patience of bitches in labour is extreme," says Mr. Blaine; "and
  their distress, if not removed, is most striking and affecting. Their
  look is at such time particularly expressive and apparently
  imploring."

When the pupping is protracted, and the young ones are evidently dead, the mother may be saved,
if none of the puppies have been broken. In process of time the different puppies may, one
after another, be extracted; but when violence has been used at the commencement, or almost
at any part of the process, death will assuredly follow.

'June' 15, 1832.--A spaniel bitch was brought to my infirmary to-day, who has been in great
and constant pain since yesterday, making repeated but fruitless efforts to expel her puppies.
She is in a very plethoric habit of body; her bowels are much confined, and she exhibits some
general symptoms of febrile derangement, arising, doubtless, from her protracted labour. This
is her first litter. Upon examination, no young could be distinctly felt.

Place her in a warm bath, and give her a dose of castor oil, morning and evening.

'June' 16.--The bitch appears in the same state as yesterday, except that the medicine has
operated freely upon the bowels, and the febrile symptoms have somewhat decreased. Her strainings
are as frequent and distressing as ever. Take two scruples of the ergot of rye, and divide
into six doses, of which let one be given every half hour.

In about ten minutes after the exhibition of the last dose of this medicine, she brought forth,
with great difficulty, one dead puppy, upon taking which away from her, she became so uneasy
that I was induced to return it to her. In about a quarter of an hour after this I paid her
another visit: the puppy could not now be found; but a suspicious appearance in the mother's
eye betrayed at once that she had devoured it. I immediately administered an emetic; and in
a very short time the whole foetus was returned in five distinct parts, viz., the four quarters
and the head. After this, the bitch began to amend very fast; she produced no other puppy;
and as her supply of milk was small, she was soon convalescent.

Twelve months afterwards she was again taken in labour, about eleven o'clock in the morning,
and after very great difficulty, one puppy was produced. After this the bitch appeared in great
pain, but did not succeed in expelling another foetus, in consequence of which I was sent for
about three o'clock, P.M. I found her very uneasy breathing laboriously; the mouth hot, and
the bowels costive; but I could not discover any trace of another foetus. She was put into
a warm bath, and a dose of opening medicine was administered.

About five o'clock she got rid of one dead and two living puppies.

'2d'. She is still very ill; she evinces great pain when pressed upon the abdomen; and it is
manifest that she has another foetus within her. I ordered a dose of the ergot, and in about
twenty minutes a large puppy was produced, nearly dying. She survived with due care.

I cannot refrain from inserting the following case at considerable length.

'Sept.' 4, 1820.--A very diminutive terrier, weighing not 5 lbs. was sent to my hospital in
order to lie in. She was already restless and panting. About eight o'clock at night the labour
pains commenced; but until eleven scarcely any progress was made. The 'os uteri' would not
admit my finger, although I frequently attempted it.

At half-past eleven, the membranes began to protrude; at one the head had descended into the
pelvis and the puppy was dead. In a previous labour she had been unable to produce her young,
although the ergot of rye had been freely used. I was obliged to use considerable force, and
she fought terribly with me throughout the whole process. At half-past one, and after applying
considerable force, I brought away a large foetus, compared with her own size. On passing my
finger as high as possible, I felt another foetus living, but the night passed and the whole
of the following day, and she ate and drank, and did not appear to be much injured.

Several times in the day I gave her some strong soup and the ergot. Some slight pains now returned,
and by pressing on the belly the nose of the foetus was brought to the superior edge of the
pelvis. The pains again ceased, the pudenda began to swell from frequent examination, the bitch
began to stagger, and made frequent attempts to void her urine, with extreme difficulty in
accomplishing it. I now resorted to the crotchet; and after many unsuccessful attempts, in
which the superior part of the vagina must have been considerably bruised, I fixed it sufficiently
firmly to draw the head into the cavity of the pelvis. Here for a while the shoulder resisted
every attempt which I could make without the danger of detruncating the foetus. At length by
working at the side of the head until my nails were soft and my fingers sore, I extracted one
fore leg. The other was soon brought down; another large puppy was produced, but destroyed
by the means necessary for its production. This was the fruit of two hours' hard work.

She was completely exhausted, and scarcely able to stand. When placed on the ground she staggered
and fell at almost every step. Her efforts to void her urine were frequent and ineffectual.

At four o'clock I again examined her; the external pudenda were sore and swelled, and beginning
to assume a black hue. It was with considerable difficulty that I could introduce my finger.
A third foetus irregularly presented was detected. I could just feel one of the hind legs.
No time was to be lost. I introduced a small pair of forceps by the side of my finger, and
succeeded in laying hold of the leg without much difficulty, and, with two or three weak efforts
from the mother,--I could scarcely call them pains,--I brought the leg down until it was in
the cavity of the pelvis. I solicited it forward with my finger, and, by forcibly pressing
back the 'labia pudendi', I could just grasp it with the finger and thumb of the right hand.
Holding it there, I introduced the finger of the right hand, and continued to get down the
other leg, and then found little difficulty until the head was brought to the superior edge
of the pelvis. After a long interval, and with considerable force, this was brought into the
pelvis, and another puppy extracted. This fully occupied two hours.

The bitch now appeared almost lifeless. As she was unable to stand, and seemed unconscious
of every thing around her, I concluded that she was lost: I gave her one or two drops of warm
brandy and water, covered her up closely, and put her to bed.

To my surprise, on the following morning, she was curled round in her basket; she licked my
hands, and ate a bit of bread and butter; but when put on her legs staggered and fell. The
pudendum was dreadfully swollen, and literally black. In the afternoon she again took a little
food: she came voluntarily from her basket, wagged her tail when spoken to, and on the following
day she was taken in her basket a journey of 70 miles, and afterwards did well; no one could
be more rejoiced than was her master, who was present at, and superintended the greater part
of the proceedings.

'The beneficial effect of Ergot of Rye in difficult Parturition'.--The following case is from
the pen of Professor Dick:

On the 10th instant, a pointer bitch produced two puppies; and it was thought by the person
having her in charge that she had no more. She was put into a comfortable box, and with a little
care was expected to do well. On the next morning, however, she was sick and breathed heavily,
and continued rather uneasy all the day.

On the forenoon of the following day I was requested to see her. I found her with her nose
dry, breath hot, respiration frequent, mouth hot and parched, coat staring, back roached, pulse
120, and a black fetid discharge from the vagina. Pressure on the abdomen gave pain. A pup
could be obscurely felt; the secretion of milk was suppressed, and the skin had lost its natural
elasticity.

Tepid water with a little soap dissolved in it was immediately injected into the uterus, which
in a considerable degree excited its action; and this injection was repeated two or three times
with the same effect.

After waiting for half an hour, the foetus was not discharged nor brought forward; therefore
a scruple of the ergot of rye was then made into an infusion with two ounces of water, and
one-third of it given as a dose; in half an hour, another one-third of it; the injections of
warm water and soap being also continued. Soon after the second dose of the infusion, a dead
puppy was expelled; the bitch rapidly recovered, and, with the exception of deficiency of milk,
is now quite well.

This case would seem to prove the great power of the ergot of rye over the uterus; but, until
more experiments are made, it is necessary to be cautious in ascribing powers to medicines
which have not been much tried in our practice. It is not improbable that the warm water and
soap might have roused the uterus into action without the aid of the ergot; and it is therefore
necessary that those who repeat this experiment should try the effects of the medicine unaided
by the auxiliary.

The Professor adds, that the great power which this drug is said to have on the human being,
and the apparent effect in the case just given, suggest the propriety of instituting a further
trial of it, and of our extending our observations to cattle, amongst which difficult cases
of calving so frequently occur.

Mr. Simpson thus concludes some remarks on ergot in difficult parturition. This medicine possesses
a very great power over the uterus, rousing its dormant or debilitated contractility, and stimulating
it to an extra performance of this necessary function after its natural energy has been in
some measure destroyed by forcible but useless action. The direct utility of the ergot was
manifested in cases where the uterus appeared quite exhausted by its repeated efforts; and
certainly it is but fair to ascribe the decidedly augmented power of the organ to the stimulus
of the ergot, for no other means were resorted to in order to procure the desired effect. Its
action, too, is prompt. Within ten minutes of the administration of a second or third dose,
when nature has been nearly exhausted, the parturition has been safely effected.

'Puerperal Fits'. Nature, proportions the power and resources of the mother to the wants of
her offspring. In her wild undomesticated state she is able to suckle her progeny to the full
time; but, in the artificial state in which we have placed her, we shorten the interval between
each period of parturition, we increase the number of her young ones at each birth, we diminish
her natural powers of affording them nutriment, and we give her a degree of irritability which
renders her whole system liable to be excited and deranged by causes that would otherwise be
harmless: therefore it happens that, when the petted bitch is permitted to suckle the whole
of her litter, her supply of nutriment soon becomes exhausted, and the continued drain upon
her produces a great degree of irritability. She gets rapidly thin; she staggers, is half unconscious,
neglects her puppies, and suddenly falls into a fit of a very peculiar character. It begins
with, and is sometimes confined to, the respiratory apparatus: she lies on her side and pants
violently, and the sound of her laboured breathing may be heard at the distance of twenty yards.
Sometimes spasms steal over her limbs; at other times the diaphragm and respiratory muscles
alone are convulsed. In a few hours she is certainly lost; or, if there are moments of remission,
they are speedily succeeded by increased heavings.

The practitioner unaccustomed to this fearful state of excitation, and forgetful or unaware
of its cause, proceeds to bleed her, and he seals her fate. Although one system is thus convulsively
labouring, it is because others are suddenly and perfectly exhausted; and by abstraction of
the vital current he reduces this last hold of life to the helpless condition of the rest.
There is not a more common or fatal error than this.

The veterinary practitioner is unable to apply the tepid bath to his larger patients, in order
to quiet the erythism of certain parts of the system, and produce an equable diffusion of nervous
influence and action; and he often forgets it when he has it in his power to save the smaller
ones. Let the bitch in a fit be put into a bath, temperature 96 deg. Fahrenheit, and covered
with the water, her head excepted. It will he surprising to see how soon the simple application
of this equable temperament will quiet down the erythism of the excited system. In ten minutes,
or a quarter of an hour, she may be taken out of the bath evidently relieved, and then, a hasty
and not very accurate drying having taken place, she is wrapped in a blanket and placed in
some warm situation, a good dose of physic having been previously administered. She soon breaks
out in a profuse perspiration. Everything becomes gradually quiet, and she falls into a deep
and long sleep, and at length awakes somewhat weak, but to a certain degree restored.

If, then, all her puppies except one or two are taken from her, and her food is, for a day
or two, somewhat restricted, and after that given again of its usual quantity and kind, she
will live and do well; but a bleeding at the time of her fit, or suffering all her puppies
to return to her, will inevitably destroy her.

A bitch that was often brought to my house was suckling a litter of puppies. She was foolishly
taken up and thrown into the Serpentine in the month of April. The suppression of milk was
immediate and complete. There was also a determination to the head, and attacks resembling
epilepsy. The puppies that were suffered to remain with the mother, were very soon as epileptic
as she was, and were destroyed. A seton was inserted on each side of her neck. Ipecacuanha
was administered; and that having sufficiently worked, a small quantity of diluted sulphuric
acid was given. A fortnight afterwards she was perfectly well.

'Inversion of the Uterus in a Bull Bitch after Pupping. Extirpation and Cure.'

By M. Cross, M. V., Milan.--In July, 1829, I was desired to attend a small bull bitch six years
old, and who had had puppies four times. The uterus was completely inverted, and rested all
its weight on the vaginal orifice of the urethra, preventing the discharge of the urine, and
thus being the cause of great pain when the animal endeavoured to void it, or the faecal matter.
The uterus was become of almost a black colour, swelled, softened, and exhaling an insupportable
odour. Judging from this that the preservation of the uterus was impossible, and reckoning
much on the good constitution of the patient, I warned the proprietor of the danger of its
reduction, even supposing that it was practicable, and proposed to him the complete extirpation
of the uterus as the only means that remained of saving the bitch.

Armed with his consent, I passed a ligature round the neck of the uterus, at the bottom of
the vagina, and drew it as tight as I possibly could. On the following day I again tightened
the ligature, in order to complete the mortification of the part, and the separation of the
womb. On the third day I extirpated the womb entirely, close to the haunch. There was very
slight loss of blood, but there ran from the walls of the vagina a small quantity of ichorous
fluid, with a strong fetid smell. The operation was scarcely completed ere she voided a considerable
quantity of urine, and then searched about for something to eat and to drink.

The portion of the uterus that was removed weighed fourteen ounces. The mucous membrane by
which it was lined was in a highly disorganized state. From time to time injections of a slight
infusion of aromatic plants were introduced into the vagina, and the animal was nourished with
liquid food of easy digestion.

The first day passed without the animal being in the slightest degree affected; but, on the
following day, in despite of all our care, an ichorous fluid was discharged, which the dog
would lick notwithstanding all our efforts to prevent it. The general health of the animal
did not seem to be in the slightest degree affected.

On the fourth day after the operation, the cords that had served as a ligature fell off, and
all suppuration from the part gradually ceased.

'October 20th'.--Three months have passed since the operation, and she is perfectly well.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIV.

THE DISTEMPER.

By this singular name is distinguished a prevalent disease now about to come under our consideration,
which was first observed on the continent. The rapidity with which it spread, the strange protean
appearances which it assumed, and its too frequent fatal termination, surprised and puzzled
the veterinary surgeons; and they called it "la maladie des chiens," the disease or distemper
in dogs.

It is comparatively a new disease. It was imported from France about one hundred years since,
although some French authors have strangely affirmed that it is of British origin. Having once
gained footing among us, it has established itself in our country, to the vexation and loss
of the sportsman, and the annoyance of the veterinary surgeon. However keepers, or even men
of education, may boast of their specifics, it is a sadly fatal disease, and destroys fully
one-third of the canine race.

Dogs of all ages are subject to its attack. Many, nine and ten years old, have died of pure
distemper; and I have seen puppies of only three weeks fall victims to it; but it oftenest
appears between the sixth and twelfth month of the animal's life. If it occurs at an early
period, it proves fatal in the great majority of cases; and, if the dog is more than four years
old, it generally goes hard with him. It is undeniably highly contagious, yet it is frequently
generated. In this it bears an analogy to mange, and to farcy and glanders in the horse.

One attack of the disease, and even a severe one, is no absolute security against its return;
although the dog that has once laboured under distemper possesses a certain degree of immunity;
or, if he is attacked a second time, the malady usually assumes a milder type. I have, however,
known it occur three times in the same animal, and at last destroy him.

Violent catarrh will often terminate in distemper; and low and insufficient feeding will produce
it. It frequently follows mange, and especially if mercury has been used in the cure of the
malady. When we see a puppy with mange, and that peculiar disease in which the skin becomes
corrugated, and more especially if it is a spaniel, and pot-bellied or rickety, we generally
say that we can cure the mange, but it will not be long before the animal dies of distemper;
and so it happens in three cases out of four. Whatever debilitates the constitution predisposes
it for the reception or the generation of distemper. It, however, frequently occurs without
any apparent exciting cause.

That it is highly contagious cannot admit of doubt. A healthy dog can seldom, for many days,
be kept with another that labours under distemper without becoming affected; and the disease
is communicated by the slightest momentary contact. There is, however, a great deal of caprice
about this. I have more than once kept a dog in the foul-yard of my hospital for several successive
weeks, and he has not become diseased. Inoculation with the matter that flows from the nose,
either limpid or purulent, and in an early or advanced stage of the distemper, will, with few
exceptions, produce the disease; yet I have failed to communicate it even by this method. Inoculation
used to be recommended as producing a milder and less fatal disease. So far as my experience
goes, the contrary has been the result.

Distemper is also epidemic. It occurs more frequently in the spring and autumn than in the
winter and summer. If one or two dogs in a certain district are affected, we may be assured
that it will soon extensively prevail there; and where the disease could not possibly be communicated
by contagion. Sometimes it rages all over the country. At other times it is endemic, and confined
to some particular district.

Not only is the disease epidemic or endemic, but the form which it assumes is so. In one season,
almost every dog with distemper has violent fits; at another, in the majority of cases, there
will be considerable chest affection, running on to pneumonia; a few months afterwards, a great
proportion of the distempered dogs will be worn down by diarrhoea, which no medicine will arrest;
and presently it will be scarcely distinguishable from mild catarrh.

It varies much with different breeds. The shepherd's dog, generally speaking, cares little
about it; he is scarcely ill a day. The cur is not often seriously affected. The terrier has
it more severely, especially the white terrier. The hound comes next in the order of severity;
and after him the setter. With the small spaniel it is more dangerous; and still more so with
the pointer, especially if he has the disease early. Next in the order of fatality comes the
pug; and it is most fatal of all with the Newfoundland dog. Should a foreign dog be affected,
he almost certainly dies. The greater part of the northern dogs brought by Captain Parry did
not survive a twelvemonth; and the delicate Italian greyhound has little chance, when imported
from abroad.

Not only does it thus differ in different species of dogs, but in different breeds of the same
species. I have known several gentlemen who have laboured in vain for many years, to rear particular
and valuable breeds of pointers and greyhounds. The distemper would uniformly carry off five
out of six. Other sportsmen laugh at the supposed danger of distemper, and declare that they
seldom lose a dog. This hereditary predisposition to certain kinds of disease cannot be denied,
and is not sufficiently attended to. When a peculiar fatality has often followed a certain
breed, the owner should cross it from another kennel, and especially from the kennel of one
who boasts of his success in the treatment of distemper. This has occasionally succeeded far
beyond expectation.

It is time to proceed to the symptoms of this disease; but here there is very considerable
difficulty, for it is a truly protean malady, and it is impossible to fix on any symptom that
will invariably characterise it.

An early and frequent symptom is a gradual loss of appetite, spirits, and condition: the dog
is less obedient to his master, and takes less notice of him. The eyes appear weak and watery;
and there will be a very slight limpid discharge from the nose. In the morning there will,
perhaps, be a little indurated mucus at the inner corner of the eye. This may continue two
or three weeks without serious or scarcely recognizable illness. Then a peculiar husky cough
is heard, altogether different from the sonorous cough of catarrh, or the wheezing of asthma.
It is an apparent attempt to get something from the fauces or throat. By degrees the discharge
from the eyes and nose, and particularly the former, will increase. More mucus will collect
in the corners of the eye; and the eye will sometimes be closed in the morning. The conjunctiva
and particularly that portion which covers the sclerotica, will be considerably injected, but
there will not be the usual intense redness of inflammation. The vessels will be large and
turgid rather than numerous, and frequently of a darkish hue.

Occasionally, however, the inflammation of the conjunctiva will be exceedingly intense, the
membrane vividly red, and the eye impatient of light. An opacity spreads over the cornea, and
this is quickly succeeded by ulceration. The first spot of ulceration is generally found precisely
in the centre of the cornea, and is perfectly circular; this will distinguish it from a scratch
or other injury. The ulcer widens and deepens, and sometimes eats through the cornea, and the
aqueous humour escapes. Fungous granulations spring from it, protrude through the lids, and
the animal evidently suffers extreme torture.

A remarkable peculiarity attends this affection of the eye. However violent may be the inflammation,
and by whatever disorganization it may be accompanied, if we can cure the distemper, the granulations
will disappear, the ulcer will heal, the opacity will clear away, and the eye will not eventually
suffer in the slightest degree. One-fourth part of the mischief in other cases, unconnected
with distemper, would inevitably terminate in blindness; but permanent blindness is rarely
the consequence of distemper.

It may not be improper here shortly to revert to the different appearance of the eye in rabies.
In the early stage of this malady there is an unnatural and often terrific brightness of the
eye; but the cornea in distemper is from the first rather clouded. In rabies there is frequent
strabismus, with the axis of the eye distorted outwards. The apparent squinting of the eye
in distemper is caused by the probably unequal protrusion of the membrana nictitans over a
portion of the eye at the inner canthus, in order to protect it from the light. In rabies,
the white cloudiness which I have described, and the occasional ulceration with very little
cloudiness, and the ulceration, are confined to the cornea; but a dense green opacity comes
on, speedily followed by ulceration and disorganization of every part of the eye.

The dog will, at this stage of distemper, be evidently feverish, and will shiver and creep
to the fire. He will more evidently and rapidly lose flesh. The huskiness will be more frequent
and troublesome, and the discharge from the nose will have greater consistence. It will be
often and violently sneezed out, and will gradually become more or less purulent. It will stick
about the nostrils and plug them up, and thus afford a considerable mechanical obstruction
to the breathing.

The progress of the disease is now uncertain. Sometimes fits come on, speedily following intense
inflammation of the eye; or the inflammation of the nasal cavity appears to be communicated,
by proximity, to the membrane of the brain. One fit is a serious thing. If it is followed by
a second within a day or two, the chances of cure are diminished; and if they rapidly succeed
each other, the dog is almost always lost. These fits seldom appear without warning; and, if
their approach is carefully watched, they may possibly be prevented.

However indisposed to eat the dog may previously have been, the appetite returns when the fits
are at hand, and the animal becomes absolutely voracious. Nature seems to be providing for
the great expenditure of power which epilepsy will soon occasion. The mucus almost entirely
disappears from the eyes, although the discharge from the nose may continue unabated; and for
an hour or more before the fit there will be a champing of the lower jaw, frothing at the mouth,
and discharge of saliva. The champing of the lower jaw will be seen at least twelve hours before
the first fit, and will a little while precede every other. There will also be twitchings of
some part of the frame, and usually of the mouth, cheek, or eyelid. It is of some consequence
to attend to these, as enabling us to distinguish between fits of distemper and those of teething,
worms, or unusual excitement. The latter come on suddenly. The dog is apparently well, and
racing about full of spirits, and without a moment's warning he falls into violent convulsions.

We may here, likewise, be enabled to distinguish between rabies and distemper. When a person,
unacquainted with dogs, sees a dog struggling in a fit, or running along unconscious of every
surrounding object, or snapping at everything in his way, whether it be a human being or a
stone, he raises the cry of "mad dog," and the poor brute is often sacrificed. The very existence
of a fit is proof positive that the dog is not mad. No epilepsy accompanies rabies in any stage
of that disease.

The inflammation of the membrane of the nose and fauces is sometimes propagated along that
of the windpipe, and the dog exhibits unequivocal proofs of chest affection, or decided pneumonia.

At other times the bowels become affected, and a violent purging comes on. The faeces vary
from white with a slight tinge of gray, to a dark slate or olive colour. By degrees mucus begins
to mingle with the faecal discharge, and then streaks of blood. The faecal matter rapidly lessens,
and the whole seems to consist of mingled mucus and blood; and, from first to last, the stools
are insufferably offensive. When the mingled blood and mucus appear, so much inflammation exists
in the intestinal canal that the case is almost hopeless.

The discharge from the nose becomes decidedly purulent. While it is white and without smell,
and the dog is not too much emaciated, the termination may be favourable; but when it becomes
of a darker colour, and mingled with blood, and offensive, the ethmoid or turbinated bones
are becoming carious, and death supervenes. This will particularly be the case if the mouth
and lips swell, and ulcers begin to appear on them, and the gums ulcerate, and a sanious and
highly offensive discharge proceeds from the mouth. A singular, half-fetid smell arising from
the dog, is the almost invariable precursor of death.

When the disease first visited the continent, it was regarded as a humoral disease. Duhamel,
who was one of the earliest to study the character of the malady, contended that the biliary
sac contained the cause of the complaint; the bile assumed a concrete form, and its superabundance
was the cause of disease. Barrier, one of the earliest writers on the subject, described it
as a violent irregular bilious fever. Others regarded it as a mucous discharge, or a depurative;
and others, as a salutary crisis, removing from the constitution that which oppressed the different
organs. Others had recourse to inoculation, in order to give it a more benign character; and
others, and among them Chabert, considered that it possessed a character of peculiar malignity,
and he gave it a name expressive of its nature and situation--'nasal catarrh'. It exhibited
the ordinary symptoms of coryza: it was a catarrhal affection in its early stage; but it afterwards
degenerated into a species of palsy. The causes were unknown. By some, they were attributed
to the natural voracity of the dog; by others, to his occasional lasciviousness; by others,
to his frequent feeding on carrion, or the refuse of fat and soups.

There is no doubt that nasal catarrh is, to a very considerable degree, contagious on the continent.
It often spreads over a wide extent of country, and includes numerous animals of various descriptions.
It is complicated with various diseases; and particularly, at an early stage, with ophthalmia.
It may be interesting to the reader to trace the progress of the disease among our continental
neighbours. It commences with a certain depression of spirits; a diminution of appetite; a
heaviness of the head; a heat of the mouth; an attempt to get something from the throat; an
insatiable thirst; an elevated temperature of the body; a dry and painful suffocating cough;
and all these circumstances continue twenty to thirty days, until at length the dog droops
and dies.

The duration of distemper is uncertain. It sometimes runs its course in five or six days; or
it may linger on two or three months. In some cases the emaciation is rapid and extreme: danger
is then to be apprehended. When the muscles of the loins are much attenuated, or almost wasted,
there is little hope; and, although other symptoms may remit, and the dog may be apparently
recovering, yet, if he continues to lose flesh, we may be perfectly assured that he will not
live. On the other hand, let the discharge from the nose be copious, and the purging violent,
and every other symptom threatening, yet if the animal gains a little flesh, we may confidently
predict his recovery.

When the dog is much reduced in strength and flesh, a spasmodic affection or twitching of the
muscles will sometimes be observed. It is usually confined at first to one limb; but the most
decisive treatment is required, or these spasms will spread until the animal is altogether
unable to stand; and while he lies every limb will be in motion, travelling, as it were, at
the rate of twenty miles an hour, until the animal is worn out, and dies of absolute exhaustion.
When these spasms become universal and violent, they are accompanied by constant and dreadful
moans and cries.

In the pointer and the hound, and particularly when there is little discharge from the eyes
or nose, an intense yellowness often suddenly appears all over the dog. He falls away more
in twenty-four hours than it would be thought possible; his bowels are obstinately constipated;
he will neither eat nor move; and in two or three days he is dead.

In the pointer, hound, and greyhound, there sometimes appears on the whole of the chest and
belly a pustular eruption, which peels off in large scales. The result is usually unfavourable.
A more general eruption, however, either wearing the usual form of mange, or accompanied by
minute pustules, may be regarded as a favourable symptom. The disease is leaving the vital
parts, and expending its last energy on the integument.

The 'post-mortem' appearances are exceedingly unsatisfactory: they do not correspond with the
original character of the disease, but with its strangely varying symptoms. If the dog has
died in fits, we have inflammation of the brain or its membranes, and particularly at the base
of the brain, with considerable effusion of a serous or bloody fluid. If the prevailing symptoms
have led our attention to the lungs, we find inflammation of the bronchial passages, or, in
a few instances, of the substance of the lungs, or the submucous tissue of the cells. We rarely
have inflammation of the pulmonary pleura, and never to any extent of the intercostal pleura.
In a few lingering cases, tubercles and vomicae of the lungs have been found.

If the bowels have been chiefly attacked, we have intense inflammation of the mucous membrane,
and, generally speaking, the small intestines are almost filled with worms. If the dog has
gradually wasted away, which is often the case when purging to any considerable extent has
been encouraged or produced, we have contraction of the whole canal, including even the stomach,
and sometimes considerable enlargement of the mesenteric glands [1].

The membrane of the nose will always exhibit marks of inflammation, and particularly in the
frontal sinuses and ethmoidal cells; and I have observed the portion of membrane on the septum,
or cartilaginous division of the nostrils, between the frontal sinuses and ethmoidal cells,
to be studded with small miliary tubercles. In advanced stages of the disease, attended with
much defluxion from the nose, the cells of the ethmoidal bone and the frontal sinuses are filled
with pus.

Ulceration is sometimes found on the membrane of the nose, oftenest on the spot to which I
have referred--occasionally confined to that; and now and then spreading over the whole of
the septum, and even corroding and eating through it; generally equal on both sides of the
septum; in a few instances extending into the fauces; seldom found in the larynx, but occasionally
seen in the bronchial passages. The other viscera rarely present any remarkable morbid appearance.

The distemper is clearly a disease of the mucous membranes, usually commencing in the membrane
of the nose, and resembling nasal catarrh. In the early stage it is 'coryza', or nasal catarrh;
but the affection rapidly extends, and seems to attack the mucous membranes generally, determined
to some particular one, either by atmospheric influence or accidental causes, or constitutional
predisposition. The fits arise from general disturbance of the system, or from the proximity
of the brain to the early seat of inflammation.

This account of the nature and treatment of distemper will, perhaps, be unsatisfactory to some
readers. One thing, however, is clear, that for a disease which assumes such a variety of forms,
there can be no specific; yet there is not a keeper who is not in possession of some supposed
infallible nostrum. Nothing can be more absurd. A disease attacking so many organs, and presenting
so many and such different symptoms, must require a mode of treatment varying with the organ
attacked and the symptom prevailing. The faith in these boasted specifics is principally founded
on two circumstances--atmospheric influence and peculiarity of breed. There are some seasons
when we can scarcely save a dog; there are others when we must almost wilfully destroy him
in order to lose him. There are some breeds in which, generation after generation, five out
of six die of distemper, while there are others in which not one out of a dozen dies. When
the season is favourable, and the animal, by hereditary influence, is not disposed to assume
the virulent type of the disease, these two important agents are overlooked, and the immunity
from any fatal result is attributed to medicine. The circumstances most conducive to success
will be the recollection that it is a disease of the mucous surfaces, and that we must not
carry the depleting and lowering system too far. Keeping this in view, we must accommodate
ourselves to the symptoms as they arise.

The natural medicine of the dog seems to be an emetic. The act of vomiting is very easily excited
in him, and, feeling the slightest ailment, he flies to the dog-grass, unloads his stomach,
and is at once well. In distemper, whatever be the form which it assumes, an emetic is the
first thing to be given. Common salt will do when nothing else is at hand; but the best emetic,
and particularly in distemper, consists of equal parts of calomel and tartar emetic. From half
a grain to a grain and a half of each will constitute the dose.

This will act first as an emetic, and afterwards as a gentle purgative. Then, if the cough
is urgent, and there is heaving at the flanks, and the nose is hot, a moderate quantity of
blood may be taken--from three to twelve ounces--and this, if there has been previous constipation,
may be followed by a dose of sulphate of magnesia, from two to six drachms.

In slight cases this will often be sufficient to effect a cure: but, if the dog still droops,
and particularly if there is much huskiness, the antimonial or James's powder, nitre and digitalis,
in the proportion of from half a grain to a grain of digitalis, from two to five grains of
the James's powder, and from a scruple to a drachm of nitre, should be administered twice or
thrice in a day. If on the third or fourth day the huskiness is not quite removed, the emetic
should be repeated.

In these affections of the mucous membranes, it is absolutely necessary to avoid or to get
rid of every source of irritation, and worms will generally be found a very considerable one
in young dogs. If we can speedily get rid of them, distemper will often rapidly disappear;
but, if they are suffered to remain, diarrhoea or fits are apt to supervene: therefore some
worm medicine should be administered.

I have said that vomiting is very easily excited in the dog; and that for this reason we are
precluded from the use of a great many medicines in our treatment of him. Calomel, aloes, jalap,
scammony, and gamboge will generally produce sickness. We are, therefore, driven to some mechanical
vermifuge; and a very effectual one, and that will rarely fail of expelling even the tape-worm,
is tin filings or powdered glass. From half a drachm to a drachm of either may be advantageously
given twice in the day. There may generally be added to them digitalis, James's powder, and
nitre, made into balls with palm oil and a little linseed meal. This course should be pursued
in usual cases until two or three emetics have been given, and a ball morning and night on
the intermediate days. Should the huskiness not diminish after the first two or three days,
if the dog has not rapidly lost flesh, I should be disposed to take a little more blood, and
to put a seton in the poll. It should be inserted between the ears, and reaching from ear to ear.

When there is fever and huskiness, and the dog is not much emaciated, a seton is an excellent
remedy; but, if it is used indiscriminately, and when the animal is already losing ground,
and is violently purging, we shall only hasten his doom, or rather make it more sure.

It is now, if ever, that pneumonia will be perceived. The symptoms of inflammation in the lungs
of the dog can scarcely be mistaken. The quick and laborious breathing, the disinclination
or inability to lie down, the elevated position of the head, and the projection of the muzzle,
will clearly mark it. More blood must be subtracted, a seton inserted, the bowels opened with
Epsom salts, and the digitalis, nitre, and James's powder given more frequently and in larger
doses than before.

Little aid is to be derived from observation of the pulse of the dog; it differs materially
in the breed, and size, and age of the animal. Many years' practice have failed in enabling
me to draw any certain conclusion from it. The best place to feel the pulse of the dog is at
the side. We may possibly learn from it whether digitalis is producing an intermittent pulse,
which it frequently will do, and which we wish that it should do: it should then be given a
little more cautiously, and in smaller quantities.

If the pneumonia is evidently conquered, or we have proceeded thus far without any considerable
inflammatory affection of the chest, we must begin to change our plan of treatment. If the
huskiness continues, and the discharge from the nose is increased and thicker, and the animal
is losing flesh and becoming weak, we must give only half the quantity of the sedative and
diuretic medicine, and add some mild tonic, as gentian, chamomile, and ginger, with occasional
emetics, taking care to keep the bowels in a laxative but not purging state. The dog should
likewise be urged to eat; and, if he obstinately refuses ail food, he should be forced with
strong beef jelly, for a very great degree of debility will now ensue

We have thus far considered the treatment of distemper from its commencement; but it may have
existed several days before we were consulted, and the dog may be thin and husky, and refusing
to eat. In such case we should give an emetic, and then a dose of salts, and after that proceed
to the tonic and fever balls.

Should the strength of the animal continue to decline, and the discharge from the nose become
purulent and offensive, the fever medicine must be omitted, and the tonic balls, with carbonate
of iron, administered. Some veterinary surgeons are very fond of gum resins and balsams. Mr.
Blaine, in his excellent treatise on the distemper in his Canine Pathology, recommends myrrh
and benjamin, and balsam of Peru and camphor. I much doubt the efficacy of these drugs. They
are beginning to get into disrepute in the practice of human medicine; and I believe that if
they were all banished from the veterinary Materia Medica we should experience no loss. When
the dog begins to recover, although not so rapidly as we could wish, the tonic balls, without
the iron, may be advantageously given, with now and then an emetic, if huskiness should threaten
to return; but mild and wholesome food, and country or good air, will be the best tonics.

If the discharge from the nose become very offensive, the lips swelled and ulcerated, and the
breath fetid, half an ounce of yeast may be administered every noon, and the tonics morning
and night; and the mouth should be frequently washed with a solution of chloride of lime.

At this period of the disease the sub-maxillary glands are sometimes very much enlarged, and
a tumour or abscess is formed, which, if not timely opened, breaks, and a ragged, ill-conditioned
ulcer is formed, very liable to spread, and very difficult to heal. It is prudent to puncture
this tumour as soon as it begins to point, for it will never disperse. After the opening, a
poultice should be applied to cleanse the ulcer; after which it should be daily washed with
the compound tincture of benjamin, and dressed with calamine ointment. Some balls should be
given, and the animal liberally fed.

Should the fits appear in an early stage, give a strong emetic; then bleed, and open the bowels
with five or six grains of calomel and a quarter grain of opium: after this insert a seton,
and then commence the tonic balls.

The progress of fits in the early stages of the disease may thus be arrested. The occurrence
of two or three should not make us despair; but, if they occur at a later period, and when
the dog is much reduced, there is little hope. This additional expenditure of animal power
will probably soon carry him off. All that is to be done, is to administer a strong emetic,
obviate costiveness by castor oil, and give the tonic balls with opium.

Of the treatment of the yellow disease little can be said; we shall not succeed in one case
in twenty. When good effect has been produced, it has been by one large bleeding, opening the
bowels well with Epsom salts, and then giving grain doses of calomel twice a day in a tonic ball.

While it is prudent to obviate costiveness, we should recollect that there is nothing more
to be dreaded, in every stage of distemper, than diarrhoea. The purging of distemper will often
bid defiance to the most powerful astringents. This shows the folly of giving violent cathartics
in distemper; and, when I have heard of the ten, and twenty, and thirty grains of calomel that
are sometimes given, I have thought it fortunate that the stomach of the dog is so irritable.
The greater part of these kill-or-cure doses is ejected, otherwise the patient would soon be
carried off by super-purgation. There is an irritability about the whole of the mucous membrane
that may be easily excited, but cannot be so readily allayed; and, therefore, except in the
earliest stage of distemper, or in fits, or limiting ourselves to the small portion of calomel
which enters into our emetic, I would never give a stronger purgative than castor-oil or Epsom
salts. It is of the utmost consequence that the purging of distemper should be checked as soon
as possible.

In some diseases a sudden purging, and even one of considerable violence, constitutes what
is called the crisis. It is hailed as a favourable symptom, and from that moment the animal
begins to recover; but this is never the case in distemper: it is a morbid action which is
then going on, and which produces a dangerous degree of debility.

The proper treatment of purging in cases of distemper, is first to give a good dose of Epsom
salts, in order to carry away anything that may offend, and then to ply the animal with mingled
absorbents and astringents. A scruple of powdered chalk, ten grains of catechu, and five of
ginger, with a quarter of a grain of opium, made into a ball with palm oil, may be given to
a middle-sized dog twice or thrice every day. To this may be added injections of gruel, with
the compound chalk mixture and opium.

When the twitchings which I have described begin to appear, a seton is necessary, whatever
may be the degree to which the animal is reduced. Some stimulating embrocation, such as tincture
of cantharides, may be rubbed along the whole course of the spine; and the medicine which has
oftenest, but not always, succeeded, is castor-oil, syrup of buckthorn, and syrup of white
poppies, given morning and night, and a tonic ball at noon. If the dog will not now feed, he
should be forced with strong soup. As soon, however, as the spasms spread over him, accompanied
by a moaning that increases to a cry, humanity demands that we put an end to that which we
cannot cure. Until this happens I would not despair; for many dogs have been saved that have
lain several days perfectly helpless.

As to the chorea which I have mentioned as an occasional sequel of distemper, if the dog is
in tolerable condition, and especially if he is gaining flesh, and the spring or summer is
approaching, there is a chance of his doing well. A seton is the first thing; the bowels should
be preserved from constipation; and the nitrate of silver, in doses of one-eighth of a grain,
made into a pill with linseed meal, and increased to a quarter of a grain, should be given
morning and night.

We should never make too sure of the recovery of a distempered dog, nor commit ourselves by
too early a prognosis. It is a treacherous disease; the medicines should be continued until
every symptom has fairly disappeared; and for a month at least.

It may be interesting to add the following account of the distemper in dogs, by Dr. Jenner.
Several of our modern writers have copied very closely from him.

  "That disease among dogs which has familiarly been called the
  'distemper,' has not hitherto, I believe, been, much noticed by
  medical men. My situation in the country favouring my wishes to make
  some observations on this singular malady, I availed myself of it,
  during several successive years, among a large number of foxhounds
  belonging to the Earl of Berkeley; and, from observing how frequently
  it has been confounded with hydrophobia, I am induced to lay the
  result of my inquiries before the Medical and Chirurgical Society. It
  may be difficult, perhaps, precisely to ascertain the period of its
  first appearance in Britain. In this and the neighbouring counties, I
  have not been able to trace it back beyond the middle of the last
  century; but it has since spread universally. I knew a gentleman who,
  about forty-five years ago, destroyed the greater part of his hounds,
  from supposing them mad, when the distemper first broke out among
  them; so little was it then known by those most conversant with dogs.
  On the continent I find it has been known for a much longer period; it
  is as contagious among dogs as the small-pox, measles, or scarlet
  fever among the human species; and the contagious miasmata, like those
  arising from the diseases just mentioned, retain their infectious
  properties a long time after separation from the distempered animal.
  Young hounds, for example, brought in a state of health into a kennel,
  where others have gone through the distemper, seldom escape it. I have
  endeavoured to destroy the contagion by ordering every part of a
  kennel to be carefully washed with water, then whitewashed, and
  finally to be repeatedly fumigated with the vapour of marine acid, but
  without any good result.

  "The dogs generally sicken early in the second week after exposure to
  the contagion; it is more commonly a violent disease than otherwise,
  and cuts off at least one in three that are attacked by it. It
  commences with inflammation of the substance of the lungs, and
  generally of the mucous membrane of the bronchi. The inflammation at
  the same time seizes on the membranes of the nostrils, and those
  lining the bones of the nose, particularly the nasal portion of the
  ethmoid bone. These membranes are often inflamed to such a degree as
  to occasion extravasation of blood, which I have observed coagulated
  on their surface. The breathing is short and quick, and the breath is
  often fetid; the teeth are covered with a dark mucus. There is
  frequently a vomiting of a glairy fluid. The dog commonly refuses
  food, but his thirst seems insatiable, and nothing cheers him like the
  sight of water. The bowels, although generally constipated as the
  disease advances, are frequently affected with diarrhoea at its
  commencement. The eyes are inflamed, and the sight is often obscured
  by mucus secreted from the eyelids, or by opacity of the cornea. The
  brain is often affected as early as the second day after the attack;
  the animal becomes stupid, and his general habits are changed. In this
  state, if not prevented by loss of strength, he sometimes wanders from
  his home. He is frequently endeavouring to expel by forcible
  expirations the mucus from the trachea and fauces, with a peculiar
  rattling noise. His jaws are generally smeared with it, and it
  sometimes flows out in a frothy state, from his frequent champing.

  "During the progress of the disease, especially in its advanced
  stages, he is disposed to bite and gnaw anything within his reach; he
  has sometimes epileptic fits, and a quick succession of general though
  slight convulsive spasms of the muscles. If the dog survive, this
  affection of the muscles continues through life. He is often attacked
  with fits of a different description; he first staggers, then tumbles,
  rolls, cries as if whipped, and tears up the ground with his teeth and
  fore feet: he then lies down senseless and exhausted. On recovering,
  he gets up, moves his tail, looks placid, comes to a whistle, and
  appears in every respect much better than before the attack. The eyes,
  during this paroxysm, look bright, and, unless previously rendered dim
  by mucus, or opacity of the cornea, seem as if they were starting from
  their sockets. He becomes emaciated, and totters from feebleness in
  attempting to walk, or from a partial paralysis of the hind legs. In
  this state he sometimes lingers on till the third or fourth week, and
  then either begins to show signs of returning health (which seldom
  happens when the symptoms have continued with this degree of
  violence), or expires. During convalescence, he has sometimes, though
  rarely, profuse haemorrhage from the nose.

