MY DEAR MR. DICK, - I have been a great while owing you a letter;  but I am not without excuses,
as you have heard.  I overworked to  get a piece of work finished before I had my holiday,
thinking to  enjoy it more; and instead of that, the machinery near hand came  sundry in my
hands! like Murdie's uniform.  However, I am now, I  think, in a fair way of recovery; I think
I was made, what there is  of me, of whipcord and thorn-switches; surely I am tough!  But I
fancy I shall not overdrive again, or not so long.  It is my theory  that work is highly beneficial,
but that it should, if possible,  and certainly for such partially broken-down instruments
as the  thing I call my body, be taken in batches, with a clear break and  breathing space
between.  I always do vary my work, laying one  thing aside to take up another, not merely
because I believe it  rests the brain, but because I have found it most beneficial to the 
result.  Reading, Bacon says, makes a full man, but what makes me  full on any subject is to
banish it for a time from all my  thoughts.  However, what I now propose is, out of every quarter,
to  work two months' and rest the third.  I believe I shall get more  done, as I generally
manage, on my present scheme, to have four  months' impotent illness and two of imperfect health
- one before,  one after, I break down.  This, at least, is not an economical  division of
the year.

I re-read the other day that heartbreaking book, the LIFE OF SCOTT.   One should read such
works now and then, but O, not often.  As I  live, I feel more and more that literature should
be cheerful and  brave-spirited, even if it cannot be made beautiful and pious and  heroic.
We wish it to be a green place; the WAVERLEY NOVELS are  better to re-read than the over-true
life, fine as dear Sir Walter  was.  The Bible, in most parts, is a cheerful book; it is our
little piping theologies, tracts, and sermons that are dull and  dowie; and even the Shorter
Catechism, which is scarcely a work of  consolation, opens with the best and shortest and completest
sermon  ever written - upon Man's chief end. - Believe me, my dear Mr.  Dick, very sincerely yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - You see I have changed my hand.  I was threatened apparently  with scrivener's cramp,
and at any rate had got to write so small,  that the revisal of my MS. tried my eyes, hence
my signature alone  remains upon the old model; for it appears that if I changed that,  I should
be cut off from my 'vivers.'

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO COSMO MONKHOUSE

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, VAR, MARCH 16, 1884.

MY DEAR MONKHOUSE, - You see with what promptitude I plunge into  correspondence; but the truth
is, I am condemned to a complete  inaction, stagnate dismally, and love a letter.  Yours, which
would  have been welcome at any time, was thus doubly precious.

Dover sounds somewhat shiveringly in my ears.  You should see the  weather I have - cloudless,
clear as crystal, with just a punkah- draft of the most aromatic air, all pine and gum tree.
You would  be ashamed of Dover; you would scruple to refer, sir, to a spot so  paltry.  To
be idle at Dover is a strange pretension; pray, how do  you warm yourself?  If I were there
I should grind knives or write  blank verse, or -  But at least you do not bathe?  It is idle
to  deny it:  I have - I may say I nourish - a growing jealousy of the  robust, large-legged,
healthy Britain-dwellers, patient of grog,  scorners of the timid umbrella, innocuously breathing
fog:  all  which I once was, and I am ashamed to say liked it.  How ignorant  is youth! grossly
rolling among unselected pleasures; and how  nobler, purer, sweeter, and lighter, to sip the
choice tonic, to  recline in the luxurious invalid chair, and to tread, well-shawled,  the
little round of the constitutional.  Seriously, do you like to  repose?  Ye gods, I hate it.
I never rest with any acceptation; I  do not know what people mean who say they like sleep
and that  damned bedtime which, since long ere I was breeched, has rung a  knell to all my
day's doings and beings.  And when a man, seemingly  sane, tells me he has 'fallen in love
with stagnation,' I can only  say to him, 'You will never be a Pirate!'  This may not cause
any  regret to Mrs. Monkhouse; but in your own soul it will clang hollow  - think of it!  Never!
After all boyhood's aspirations and youth's  immoral day-dreams, you are condemned to sit down,
grossly draw in  your chair to the fat board, and be a beastly Burgess till you die.   Can
it be?  Is there not some escape, some furlough from the Moral  Law, some holiday jaunt contrivable
into a Better Land?  Shall we  never shed blood?  This prospect is too grey.

'Here lies a man who never did Anything but what he was bid; Who lived his life in paltry ease,
And died of commonplace disease.'

To confess plainly, I had intended to spend my life (or any leisure  I might have from Piracy
upon the high seas) as the leader of a  great horde of irregular cavalry, devastating whole
valleys.  I can  still, looking back, see myself in many favourite attitudes;  signalling for
a boat from my pirate ship with a pocket- handkerchief, I at the jetty end, and one or two
of my bold blades  keeping the crowd at bay; or else turning in the saddle to look  back at
my whole command (some five thousand strong) following me  at the hand-gallop up the road out
of the burning valley:  this  last by moonlight.

ET POINT DU TOUT.  I am a poor scribe, and have scarce broken a  commandment to mention, and
have recently dined upon cold veal!  As  for you (who probably had some ambitions), I hear
of you living at  Dover, in lodgings, like the beasts of the field.  But in heaven,  when we
get there, we shall have a good time, and see some real  carnage.  For heaven is - must be
- that great Kingdom of  Antinomia, which Lamb saw dimly adumbrated in the COUNTRY WIFE,  where
the worm which never dies (the conscience) peacefully  expires, and the sinner lies down beside
the Ten Commandments.   Till then, here a sheer hulk lies poor Tom Bowling, with neither  health
nor vice for anything more spirited than procrastination,  which I may well call the Consolation
Stakes of Wickedness; and by  whose diligent practice, without the least amusement to ourselves,
we can rob the orphan and bring down grey hairs with sorrow to the  dust.

This astonishing gush of nonsense I now hasten to close, envelope,  and expedite to Shakespeare's
Cliff.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - Your office - office is profanely said - your  bower upon the leads is divine.
Have you, like Pepys, 'the right  to fiddle' there?  I see you mount the companion, barbiton
in hand,  and, fluttered about by city sparrows, pour forth your spirit in a  voluntary.  Now
when the spring begins, you must lay in your  flowers:  how do you say about a potted hawthorn?
Would it bloom?   Wallflower is a choice pot-herb; lily-of-the-valley, too, and  carnation,
and Indian cress trailed about the window, is not only  beautiful by colour, but the leaves
are good to eat.  I recommend  thyme and rosemary for the aroma, which should not be left upon
one  side; they are good quiet growths.

On one of your tables keep a great map spread out; a chart is still  better - it takes one
further - the havens with their little  anchors, the rocks, banks, and soundings, are adorably
marine; and  such furniture will suit your ship-shape habitation.  I wish I  could see those
cabins; they smile upon me with the most intimate  charm.  From your leads, do you behold St.
Paul's?  I always like  to see the Foolscap; it is London PER SE and no spot from which it
is visible is without romance.  Then it is good company for the man  of letters, whose veritable
nursing Pater-Noster is so near at  hand.

I am all at a standstill; as idle as a painted ship, but not so  pretty.  My romance, which
has so nearly butchered me in the  writing, not even finished; though so near, thank God, that
a few  days of tolerable strength will see the roof upon that structure.   I have worked very
hard at it, and so do not expect any great  public favour.  IN MOMENTS OF EFFORT, ONE LEARNS
TO DO THE EASY  THINGS THAT PEOPLE LIKE.  There is the golden maxim; thus one  should strain
and then play, strain again and play again.  The  strain is for us, it educates; the play is
for the reader, and  pleases.  Do you not feel so?  We are ever threatened by two  contrary
faults:  both deadly.  To sink into what my forefathers  would have called 'rank conformity,'
and to pour forth cheap  replicas, upon the one hand; upon the other, and still more  insidiously
present, to forget that art is a diversion and a  decoration, that no triumph or effort is
of value, nor anything  worth reaching except charm. - Yours affectionately,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MISS FERRIER

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES-LES-PALMIERS, VAR, [MARCH 22, 1884].

MY DEAR MISS FERRIER, - Are you really going to fall us?  This  seems a dreadful thing.  My
poor wife, who is not well off for  friends on this bare coast, has been promising herself,
and I have  been promising her, a rare acquisition.  And now Miss Burn has  failed, and you
utter a very doubtful note.  You do not know how  delightful this place is, nor how anxious
we are for a visit.  Look  at the names:  'The Solitude' - is that romantic?  The palm-trees?
- how is that for the gorgeous East?  'Var'? the name of a river -  'the quiet waters by'!
'Tis true, they are in another department,  and consist of stones and a biennial spate; but
what a music, what  a plash of brooks, for the imagination!  We have hills; we have  skies;
the roses are putting forth, as yet sparsely; the meadows by  the sea are one sheet of jonquils;
the birds sing as in an English  May - for, considering we are in France and serve up our song-
birds, I am ashamed to say, on a little field of toast and with a  sprig of thyme (my own receipt)
in their most innocent and now  unvocal bellies - considering all this, we have a wonderfully
fair  wood-music round this Solitude of ours.  What can I say more? - All  this awaits you.

MY DEAR LOW, - The blind man in these sprawled lines sends  greeting.  I have been ill, as
perhaps the papers told you.  The  news - 'great news - glorious news - sec-ond ed-ition!'
- went the  round in England.

Anyway, I now thank you for your pictures, which, particularly the  Arcadian one, we all (Bob
included, he was here sick-nursing me)  much liked.

Herewith are a set of verses which I thought pretty enough to send  to press.  Then I thought
of the MANHATTAN, towards whom I have  guilty and compunctious feelings.  Last, I had the best
thought of  all - to send them to you in case you might think them suitable for  illustration.
It seemed to me quite in your vein.  If so, good; if  not, hand them on to MANHATTAN, CENTURY,
or LIPPINCOTT, at your  pleasure, as all three desire my work or pretend to.  But I trust 
the lines will not go unattended.  Some riverside will haunt you;  and O! be tender to my bathing
girls.  The lines are copied in my  wife's hand, as I cannot see to write otherwise than with
the pen  of Cormoran, Gargantua, or Nimrod.  Love to your wife. - Yours  ever,

R. L. S.

Copied it myself.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

LA SOLITUDE, APRIL 19, 1884.

MY DEAR FATHER, - Yesterday I very powerfully stated the HERESIS  STEVENSONIANA, or the complete
body of divinity of the family  theologian, to Miss Ferrier.  She was much impressed; so was
I.   You are a great heresiarch; and I know no better.  Whaur the devil  did ye get thon about
the soap?  Is it altogether your own?  I  never heard it elsewhere; and yet I suspect it must
have been held  at some time or other, and if you were to look up you would  probably find
yourself condemned by some Council.

I am glad to hear you are so well.  The hear is excellent.  The  CORNHILLS came; I made Miss
Ferrier read us 'Thrawn Janet,' and was  quite bowled over by my own works.  The 'Merry Men'
I mean to make  much longer, with a whole new denouement, not yet quite clear to  me.  'The
Story of a Lie,' I must rewrite entirely also, as it is  too weak and ragged, yet is worth
saving for the Admiral.  Did I  ever tell you that the Admiral was recognised in America?

When they are all on their legs this will make an excellent  collection.

Has Davie never read GUY MANNERING, ROB ROY, or THE ANTIQUARY?  All  of which are worth three
WAVERLEYS.  I think KENILWORTH better than  WAVERLEY; NIGEL, too; and QUENTIN DURWARD about
as good.  But it  shows a true piece of insight to prefer WAVERLEY, for it IS  different; and
though not quite coherent, better worked in parts  than almost any other:  surely more carefully.
It is undeniable  that the love of the slap-dash and the shoddy grew upon Scott with  success.
Perhaps it does on many of us, which may be the granite  on which D.'s opinion stands.  However,
I hold it, in Patrick  Walker's phrase, for an 'old, condemned, damnable error.'  Dr.  Simson
was condemned by P. W. as being 'a bagful of' such.  One of  Patrick's amenities!

Another ground there may be to D.'s opinion; those who avoid (or  seek to avoid) Scott's facility
are apt to be continually straining  and torturing their style to get in more of life.  And
to many the  extra significance does not redeem the strain.

DOCTOR STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO COSMO MONKHOUSE

LA SOLITUDE, HYERES, [APRIL 24, 1884].

DEAR MONKHOUSE, - If you are in love with repose, here is your  occasion:  change with me.
I am too blind to read, hence no  reading; I am too weak to walk, hence no walking; I am not
allowed  to speak, hence no talking; but the great simplification has yet to  be named; for,
if this goes on, I shall soon have nothing to eat -  and hence, O Hallelujah! hence no eating.
The offer is a fair one:   I have not sold myself to the devil, for I could never find him.
I  am married, but so are you.  I sometimes write verses, but so do  you.  Come!  HIC QUIES!
As for the commandments, I have broken  them so small that they are the dust of my chambers;
you walk upon  them, triturate and toothless; and with the Golosh of Philosophy,  they shall
not bite your heel.  True, the tenement is falling.  Ay,  friend, but yours also.  Take a larger
view; what is a year or two?  dust in the balance!  'Tis done, behold you Cosmo Stevenson,
and me  R. L. Monkhouse; you at Hyeres, I in London; you rejoicing in the  clammiest repose,
me proceeding to tear your tabernacle into rags,  as I have already so admirably torn my own.

My place to which I now introduce you - it is yours - is like a  London house, high and very
narrow; upon the lungs I will not  linger; the heart is large enough for a ballroom; the belly
greedy  and inefficient; the brain stocked with the most damnable  explosives, like a dynamiter's
den.  The whole place is well  furnished, though not in a very pure taste; Corinthian much
of it;  showy and not strong.

About your place I shall try to find my way alone, an interesting  exploration.  Imagine me,
as I go to bed, falling over a blood- stained remorse; opening that cupboard in the cerebellum
and being  welcomed by the spirit of your murdered uncle.  I should probably  not like your
remorses; I wonder if you will like mine; I have a  spirited assortment; they whistle in my
ear o' nights like a north- easter.  I trust yours don't dine with the family; mine are better
mannered; you will hear nought of them till, 2 A.M., except one, to  be sure, that I have made
a pet of, but he is small; I keep him in  buttons, so as to avoid commentaries; you will like
him much - if  you like what is genuine.

Must we likewise change religions?  Mine is a good article, with a  trick of stopping; cathedral
bell note; ornamental dial; supported  by Venus and the Graces; quite a summer-parlour piety.
Of yours,  since your last, I fear there is little to be said.

There is one article I wish to take away with me:  my spirits.   They suit me.  I don't want
yours; I like my own; I have had them a  long while in bottle.  It is my only reservation.
- Yours (as you  decide),

R. L. MONKHOUSE.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

HYERES, MAY 1884.

DEAR BOY, - OLD MORTALITY is out, and I am glad to say Coggie likes  it.  We like her immensely.

I keep better, but no great shakes yet; cannot work - cannot:  that  is flat, not even verses:
as for prose, that more active place is  shut on me long since.

My view of life is essentially the comic; and the romantically  comic.  AS YOU LIKE IT is to
me the most bird-haunted spot in  letters; TEMPEST and TWELFTH NIGHT follow.  These are what
I mean  by poetry and nature.  I make an effort of my mind to be quite one  with Moliere, except
upon the stage, where his inimitable JEUX DE  SCENE beggar belief; but you will observe they
are stage-plays -  things AD HOC; not great Olympian debauches of the heart and fancy;  hence
more perfect, and not so great.  Then I come, after great  wanderings, to Carmosine and to
Fantasio; to one part of La  Derniere Aldini (which, by the by, we might dramatise in a week),
to the notes that Meredith has found, Evan and the postillion, Evan  and Rose, Harry in Germany.
And to me these things are the good;  beauty, touched with sex and laughter; beauty with God's
earth for  the background.  Tragedy does not seem to me to come off; and when  it does, it
does so by the heroic illusion; the anti-masque has  been omitted; laughter, which attends
on all our steps in life, and  sits by the deathbed, and certainly redacts the epitaph, laughter
has been lost from these great-hearted lies.  But the comedy which  keeps the beauty and touches
the terrors of our life (laughter and  tragedy-in-a-good-humour having kissed), that is the
last word of  moved representation; embracing the greatest number of elements of  fate and
character; and telling its story, not with the one eye of  pity, but with the two of pity and
mirth.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

FROM MY BED, MAY 29, 1884.

DEAR GOSSE, - The news of the Professorate found me in the article  of - well, of heads or
tails; I am still in bed, and a very poor  person.  You must thus excuse my damned delay; but,
I assure you, I  was delighted.  You will believe me the more, if I confess to you  that my
first sentiment was envy; yes, sir, on my blood-boltered  couch I envied the professor.  However,
it was not of long  duration; the double thought that you deserved and that you would  thoroughly
enjoy your success fell like balsam on my wounds.  How  came it that you never communicated
my rejection of Gilder's offer  for the Rhone?  But it matters not.  Such earthly vanities
are over  for the present.  This has been a fine well-conducted illness.  A  month in bed;
a month of silence; a fortnight of not stirring my  right hand; a month of not moving without
being lifted.  Come!  CA  Y EST:  devilish like being dead. - Yours, dear Professor,  academically,

R. L. S.

I am soon to be moved to Royat; an invalid valet goes with me!  I  got him cheap - second-hand.

In turning over my late friend Ferrier's commonplace book, I find  three poems from VIOL AND
FLUTE copied out in his hand:  'When  Flower-time,' 'Love in Winter,' and 'Mistrust.'  They
are capital  too.  But I thought the fact would interest you.  He was no poetist  either; so
it means the more.  'Love in W.!' I like the best.

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL CHABASSIERE, ROYAT, [JULY 1884].

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - The weather has been demoniac; I have had a skiff  of cold, and was finally
obliged to take to bed entirely; to-day,  however, it has cleared, the sun shines, and I begin to

(SEVERAL DAYS AFTER.)

I have been out once, but now am back in bed.  I am better, and  keep better, but the weather
is a mere injustice.  The imitation of  Edinburgh is, at times, deceptive; there is a note
among the  chimney pots that suggests Howe Street; though I think the  shrillest spot in Christendom
was not upon the Howe Street side,  but in front, just under the Miss Graemes' big chimney
stack.  It  had a fine alto character - a sort of bleat that used to divide the  marrow in
my joints - say in the wee, slack hours.  That music is  now lost to us by rebuilding; another
air that I remember, not  regret, was the solo of the gas-burner in the little front room;
a  knickering, flighty, fleering, and yet spectral cackle.  I mind it  above all on winter
afternoons, late, when the window was blue and  spotted with rare rain-drops, and, looking
out, the cold evening  was seen blue all over, with the lamps of Queen's and Frederick's  Street
dotting it with yellow, and flaring east-ward in the  squalls.  Heavens, how unhappy I have
been in such circumstances -  I, who have now positively forgotten the colour of unhappiness;
who  am full like a fed ox, and dull like a fresh turf, and have no more  spiritual life, for
good or evil, than a French bagman.

We are at Chabassiere's, for of course it was nonsense to go up the  hill when we could not walk.

The child's poems in a far extended form are likely soon to be  heard of - which Cummy I dare
say will be glad to know.  They will  make a book of about one hundred pages. - Ever your affectionate,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

[ROYAT, JULY 1884.]

. . . HERE is a quaint thing, I have read ROBINSON, COLONEL JACK,  MOLL FLANDERS, MEMOIRS OF
A CAVALIER, HISTORY OF THE PLAGUE,  HISTORY OF THE GREAT STORM, SCOTCH CHURCH AND UNION.  And
there my  knowledge of Defoe ends - except a book, the name of which I  forget, about Peterborough
in Spain, which Defoe obviously did not  write, and could not have written if he wanted.  To
which of these  does B. J. refer?  I guess it must be the history of the Scottish  Church.
I jest; for, of course, I KNOW it must be a book I have  never read, and which this makes me
keen to read - I mean CAPTAIN  SINGLETON.  Can it be got and sent to me?  If TREASURE ISLAND
is at  all like it, it will be delightful.  I was just the other day  wondering at my folly
in not remembering it, when I was writing T.  I., as a mine for pirate tips.  T. I. came out
of Kingsley's AT  LAST, where I got the Dead Man's Chest - and that was the seed -  and out
of the great Captain Johnson's HISTORY OF NOTORIOUS  PIRATES.  The scenery is Californian in
part, and in part CHIC.

I was downstairs to-day!  So now I am a made man - till the next  time.

R. L. STEVENSON.

If it was CAPTAIN SINGLETON, send it to me, won't you?

LATER. - My life dwindles into a kind of valley of the shadow  picnic.  I cannot read; so much
of the time (as to-day) I must not  speak above my breath, that to play patience, or to see
my wife  play it, is become the be-all and the end-all of my dim career.  To  add to my gaiety,
I may write letters, but there are few to answer.   Patience and Poesy are thus my rod and
staff; with these I not  unpleasantly support my days.

