Time went on and gradually carried them beyond the pale of Miss Dorcas's influence and over
the horizon beyond the sight of her curious curls.  But the school-girl lovers had become friends--which
was of much more consequence.  They stayed together as they grew, although in intellectual
concerns Helen soon left Isabel behind.  A year the elder, she was also the more dominant,
and had always taken the lead in their mutual affairs.  Isabel, who had a will of her own,
did not always follow; but there was never any struggle for precedence, and Helen's unselfishness
prevented her from ever assuming an unpleasant autocracy.

It would have been difficult, at any rate, to associate anything unpleasant with Miss Maitland.
She was tall, well over the middle height, and her hair was of that uncompromising blackness
that made one think of things Amazonian--or would have done so had not her deep violet eyes
softened the effect in a peculiarly attractive manner.  It was no wonder that poor Pelgram
fluttered about so compelling a flame, and Isabel, as she looked at her friend, thought for
the thousandth time that if she were a man--well, it was a little hard to say what she would
do in that remote contingency, but she felt certain, at all events, that she would adore Helen.

As a matter of fact no young lady in all Boston seemed less likely to become a man in the next
or any subsequent incarnation.  There are Bostonian persons of the female kind who could with
readiness be conceived as turning into men without any sea-change or especially startling biological
transmutation.  But Isabel was not one of them. Small and dainty, she was of the gold-and-white,
essentially feminine type.  She lived alone with her parents in the solid old-fashioned house
on the north side of the Common, almost under the shadow of the State House dome.  It made
very little difference to Isabel where she lived, and since her father would never consider
moving to any other locality nor rebuilding the rather patriarchal homestead which he had occupied
for twenty-five years, it was just as well that the daughter was so complaisant.  She, moreover,
was the only person who looked upon John M. Hurd with a clear understanding of his habits of
thought.  She could herself accomplish things with him, when her way did not conflict too directly
with his own, but she gained her points first by concentrating her attack on the matters really
of import to her, and second by taking her way whenever she saw an avenue open, notifying her
somewhat surprised parent afterward that she had done so.

"Father once told me a story," Isabel had said, "of a man who went to a railroad president
about a culvert he wanted to build under the railroad track, and the president told him that
he should have built his culvert first and asked permission afterwards.  And I invariably say
now, if father protests against any of my performances, that he never should have told me that
story.  And he usually gives a kind of growl which I have always interpreted to mean that all
is well."

Isabel had a little money of her own, but she never used the income. Instead, she put it in
the bank and lived on her allowance.  She was not John M. Hurd's daughter for nothing.  Her
mother, a stiff, lean, gray woman with a tremendous capacity for being both busy and uncomfortable
and making every one around her share the latter feeling, had little or nothing to do with
Isabel or her friends.  She was the typical Puritan, the salt of a somewhat dour earth, and
how Isabel ever came into her household would be difficult to say.  The mother had much undemonstrative
affection for her daughter, but no understanding and less sympathy.  She could never accustom
herself to the girl's habit of facing every problem when it had to be faced but not before;
she herself was used to spying trouble afar off, rushing forth with a sort of fanatical desperation,
and falling upon its breast.  John M. Hurd had selected her for her sterling and saving qualities,
and he had always found her all he could have wished.  From her daughter's viewpoint she left
much to be desired, at least in the capacity of a confidante, and this prerogative had long
since been assumed by Miss Maitland.

That young lady, more reserved than Isabel, usually preferred to receive rather than to bestow
confidences.  Only in unusual cases, such as the one now under contemplation, was Helen moved
to such downright speech.  But in this instance she acknowledged the presence of an irritation
alien to her customary serenity, and unconsciously she hit on conversation as a soothing influence.
Thus it chanced that the talk was still on Pelgram when the doorbell rang and the butler announced
that Mr. Wilkinson was calling.

"I believe I could write a manual of artistic courtship," concluded Miss Maitland, "with a
glossary embracing every shade of every color of an artist's mood.  Charlie Wilkinson was absurd,
of course, the other day, with his 'nuances,' but he was amazingly near the truth at the same
time, for all that.  Isabel, I'm sick and tired of nuances--I confess it freely."

"Well," said her friend, soothingly, "here is Charlie now.  He ought to be a fine antidote,
for Heaven knows he hasn't a nuance in his entire anatomy."

Mr. Wilkinson entered.

"My dear Isabel," he said reproachfully, as he shook hands, "I couldn't help hearing most of
what you were just saying about me, and I assure you that I feel deeply flattered, but at the
same time a little hurt. I dislike to be denied the possession of anything, even an abstract
quality, whether I want it or have any use for it or not.  Miss Maitland, I bid you an exceedingly
good day, and venture to express the hope that you will concede that latent in my anatomy I
may have a liberal share of that something--the name of which I failed to catch--although I
may perhaps have up to now given no evidence of its possession."

"You would do much better, Charlie," said his hostess, with a laugh, "if you announced with
all the emphasis at your command that you had none of this particular quality concealed about
your person.  Whatever it was, Helen just said that she never wanted to see or hear of such
a thing again."

"Miss Maitland," said the visitor with due solemnity, "I assure you that whatever else I may
be, I am as free from the taint of this unmentionable attribute as a babe unborn.  Isabel,
you will bear me out in this?"

"I feel sure of it," Helen replied smilingly.  "In fact, I should have exonerated you even
without inside information of any sort.  Really, I'm awfully glad you've come.  Here we are,
two lone dull girls, hungry to be amused.  Be as chivalrous as you can in our distressing state."

"You two lone girls lonely!" retorted Mr. Wilkinson.  "Ridiculous! That is certainly a fine
ground on which to seek sympathy from me!  I forget who it is has the proverb, 'Never pity
a woman weeping or a cat in the dark.'  And I am reminded of it when I look at you two.  You
and my fair cousin, when you have one another to talk to, are just about as much in need of
sympathy as a tiger is of tea . . .  Speaking of tea--" he turned to Isabel with bland inquiry
in his face, after a hasty glance about the room to make sure that no ulterior preparations
had been made.  "I am anxious," he explained, "to see what progress has been made since last
I inculcated my theories as to edibles--and detrimentals."

Isabel rose with a sigh.

"I see that I shall have to go and superintend the matter personally," she said, "for the customs
of years are too strong to be utterly overcome all at once.  I can only dimly conjecture Peter's
dismay if he were asked to pass the Hamburger steak to Mr. Wilkinson, yet that is the shadowy
future awaiting him."

With a laugh she vanished through the doorway, and the visitor seated himself solemnly across
from Miss Maitland, whom he then proceeded to regard with a gloomy eye.

"It is a fearful strain on one's comic spirit to have it suddenly cooled," he said.  "It makes
it liable to crack, and then when you beat on it you get nothing but a dull stodgy sound. 
I feel that there are times when my ebullience, my wealth of genteel diablerie, my flow of
jeux d'esprit astonish even myself, but those times are never the ones when my hostess says,
in effect: 'Charlie, you can be such an awful idiot when you want to that I wish you'd be one
now--go on, there's a dear!'--which was substantially what you said to me.  I don't mind telling
you that it's very upsetting."

"Oh, I'm awfully sorry," Miss Maitland replied.  "I didn't mean to.  I should be simply heart-broken
if your spring of divertissement should ever run dry--especially if you held me in any way
responsible. Charlie serious!  Good heavens!  And yet, on second thought, would it not have
a certain piquant lure, gained from its utter strangeness, which would be simply overwhelming?
Try it and see.  No audience was ever more expectant."

Wilkinson's gloom melted in meditation.

"Do you know," he said thoughtfully, "that there has never been in your attitude toward me
the regard and genuine respect--I may almost say the reverence--that I could wish to see there.
If it were not such a perfectly horrible thing to say, I should say that you do not understand
me.  As it chances--though you would be surprised to learn it--there is at this moment a mighty
problem working out, or trying to work out, its solution in my brain.  You tell me to be serious,
and since I want the advice of every one, including those whose advice is of problematic value,
I will be.  And who knows but when you see me engaged, or about to engage, in practical, cosmic
matters, swinging them with a gigantic intellectual force, your veneration for me may develop
with remarkable rapidity?"

"Who knows, indeed?  Go ahead--you have my curiosity beautifully sharpened, at any rate, before
a word is said."

Wilkinson cleared his throat and bent forward with an air of concentration, meant to indicate
that he was marshaling his ideas. Then he said in a hushed and confidential tone: "What do
you know of trolley systems?"

Miss Maitland looked at him in surprise.

"Goodness, Charlie!" she said; "I know there are such things--the term is perfectly familiar.
I have always supposed that trolley cars were part of trolley systems, but I should hesitate
to go very far beyond that statement."

The young man nodded gravely.

"You are right.  Your information, so far as it extends, is absolutely correct, but it hardly
goes far enough.  Trolley cars belong to trolley companies which operate trolley systems. 
That's very well put, don't you think?"

"Very.  Go on--I'm awfully interested."

"I'll put it a little more simply.  The scientific attitude is too difficult to maintain. 
And besides, that was just about as far as I could go scientifically, anyway.  I had much better
deal with concrete facts--or with what I hope to convert into them.  Don't you agree? Although
I felt rather well in my academic habiliments."

"Much better," Miss Maitland promptly agreed.  "And there would be the additional advantage
that I would quite likely know what you were talking about, which would not be at all a certainty
if you insisted on retaining your scientific manner."

"It's this way, then," said her companion.  "It's this way.  John M. Hurd, Isabel's father,
my step-uncle, Mrs. Hurd's husband--John M. Hurd, in short, is the President of the most important
trolley system in this vicinity, the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company. He is
also, ex-officio, chairman of the board of directors, and except for some dynamos, cars, conductors,
tracks, and other equipment, he is the trolley system."

"That sounds like Mr. Hurd," the girl acknowledged.

"Now I must ask you another leading question," the other continued. "What do you know about
fire insurance?"

"Well, I ought to know a little about it," replied Helen, "considering the fact that my uncle,
Mr. Osgood, has one of the leading fire insurance agencies in Boston.  Whenever there's a big
fire he's always quoted as 'Silas Osgood, the veteran underwriter, said so and so.'"

"You will pardon me," said Mr. Wilkinson, "if my legal method of thought calls to your attention
that 'ought to know' and 'do know' are not in all cases coincident.  My original question was,
'What do you know about fire insurance?'"

"Not as much as I ought, I'm afraid," Helen confessed.  "Uncle Silas belongs to the school
which believes in locking his business in the safe when he leaves the office, and as he never
mentions it, I know very little about it--though I don't at all care for your legal method
of establishing my ignorance."

"A true gentleman ignores a lady's embarrassments.  Fire insurance, to put it briefly, is indemnity
against losses by fire.  Companies do it. You pay them a little money called a premium--no
connection with trading stamps--and when your house burns down they pay you a tremendous amount.
It's a remarkable idea."

"It certainly sounds so, as you put it."

"The personal application is this: John M. Hurd owns a trolley system which ought to be insured
for five or six million dollars if it was insured at all.  But it isn't.  And it is my life
work to make him put on that insurance, and make him do it in a way that will count--for me,
you understand."

"But how do you expect to convince him?" asked the girl.  "If he never has insured the system,
the chances are that he doesn't believe in insurance, or that he doesn't think the system is
likely to burn up, or that he has some other good reason for not insuring it."

"That's exactly why I'm asking your advice," her companion replied. "Probably you are correct
in all three of your conjectures.  What I want is some way to make him do something that he
doesn't believe in and from which he never expects to get his money back and that he has some
other perfectly proper argument for turning down--and make him do it, just the same.  Eventually
he's got to do it--it's a case of sheer necessity--for me."

"Why don't you ask Isabel?  I think I hear her coming."

And Isabel entered, the teakettle boiling in her wake.  As she dispensed the material concomitants,
the conversation went on.

"We have been talking about fire insurance and trolley systems," said Helen.  And she summarized
Wilkinson's remarks for her friend's benefit.  Isabel listened with interest but skepticism.

"If you really expect father to insure anything, Charlie, I'm afraid you will be disappointed,"
she said frankly.  "I hope you're not serious about it."

"Serious!  I should think I was!  I would naturally be just a little serious about something
on which depended the life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of Charles S. Wilkinson, Esquire.
It is a matter of most vital necessity, I assure you--nothing less.  And now having acquainted
you with the salience of the situation, I will allow you a period for reflection undisturbed
by pleasantries or philosophic observations from myself which might conceivably divert the
currents of your minds.  Meanwhile I shall devote this period to an intelligent appreciation
of Isabel's compendious and soul-satisfying tea."

The two girls looked blankly at one another.

"My dear Charlie," Miss Hurd said, "it is very painful to have to overturn the family water
cooler on your ambitious young hopes, but are you aware that for thirty years my mother--or
her representative--has carried the silver upstairs every night because as a family we did
not believe in insuring it?  Burglary insurance, life insurance, fire insurance--father has
never paid a dollar for any one of them.  And do you happen to recall the line of my distinguished
parent's jaw?  If I were you, Charlie, I would try to insure somebody else's trolley system."

Wilkinson shook his head sadly.

"No, that won't do, Isabel.  John M. is the only relative I have who owns a trolley system,
or much of anything else.  Most of the other systems are insured already, anyway, and the people
who own them undoubtedly insure them through their own connections--I was about to say poor
relations.  No, my only hope is here, and it grieves me deeply, Isabel, to see you take so
pessimistic a view.  Nevertheless, I am not downcast; I will arise buoyantly to ask whether
you cannot do better?--whether you cannot devise some expedient whereby the heart of your worthy
father may be melted and become as other men's hearts.  I don't demand a permanent or even
a protracted melting--all I ask is a temporary thaw, just long enough to let me extract a promise
from him to let me insure those car barns and power houses.  Then he can revert to adamant
and be--and welcome, so far as I am concerned.  Now, Miss Maitland, have you nothing to suggest?"

"Wouldn't it be more satisfactory to succeed by your own ideas and devices?" Helen inquired.

"All very pretty, my plausible girl, but what if one has no ideas or devices?  That is very
nearly my case, and it is a hard one.  I've only one real shot in my locker, and if that doesn't
reach its mark, I'm lost."

"And what is that?" Helen and Isabel asked almost simultaneously.

"In my single way I will endeavor to answer both these interrogations at once.  It is, then,
the suggestion of a man I met in the office of Silas Osgood and Company, a man by the wild,
barbaric, outré name of Smith.  Richard Smith, I believe.  And his suggestion--I tell it to
you in confidence, relying on your honor not to steal my stolen thunder--was, very briefly,
to put before my distinguished relation the sad, disheartening effect it would have on the
popularity of the trolley stock in the banks and on the stock exchange if it became generally
noised abroad that the road carried no insurance and maintained no proper insurance fund. 
What do you think of that?"

"I begin to see," said Isabel, thoughtfully.  "People have bought the stock and banks have
lent money on it without knowing whether the property was protected by insurance or not?"

"On the contrary, rather assuming that it was.  Your father's antipathy to insurance is a little
unusual, you know.  So far no one has ever made a point of bringing it strongly before the
public.  And banks and stock markets are queer things--and confidence is jarred with singular
ease.  There are a number of pretty important men in this town who would dislike to have some
of their loans called or to have Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction drop ten or fifteen
points.  Of course this needn't happen--and for a preventative, apply to Charles Wilkinson,
Esquire, restorer of lost confidences."

Helen spoke.

"Whose idea was this, did you say?" she asked.

"His name was Smith," said Wilkinson, soberly.

Helen started to ask another question; then changed her mind, and was silent.  What surprised
her was the fact that she found herself interested, sharply interested, in the problem Charles
had presented. She was, in fact, more interested than she had been in anything for some time.
She was astonished to find this to be so.  She had always been under the impression, common
enough among the more sheltered of her class, that business was a thing in which only the men
who carried it on could possibly be absorbed.  Yet here she had been interested to the exclusion
of all else in a matter that was of absolutely no aesthetic value and with the terms and locale
of which she was quite unfamiliar.  As it had been presented to her and she had tried, at Charles's
demand, to find a way out for him--she stated the problem over more clearly--she admitted feeling
a trifle piqued when she racked her brain for a solution only to find it barren of expedients
and a hopeless blank.  Yet this chance acquaintance of Charlie's had apparently hit on his
expedient casually enough.  Once more she restrained the impulse to ask another question, although
she scarcely knew why she did so, and she remained silent until, a few moments later, she was
roused by the departure of the satiated Wilkinson.

"Wish me luck," he said, as he turned to go.  "More depends upon this than you pampered children
of luxury can ever guess.  Isabel, I congratulate you on the educational advance of your butler.
Miss Maitland, I am your very devoted."

The curtains of the drawing room shut him from sight and sound, except the faint rumor of his
descending feet upon the steps.

CHAPTER IV

There are, in the side streets of many if not all the greater cities of the civilized world,
shops where skilled artisans are busily at work in the manufacture of "antiques"--antique furniture,
antique rugs or brasses or clocks or violins.  The ingenious persons engaged in this reprehensible
activity have developed their skill to such a point that it seems probable that fully half
their deceit never comes to light at all, and it is certain that their products rarely suffer
much by contrast with the things which they seek to imitate.  It is only when the maker of
the original was a great master that his modern counterfeiter fails--and not always then.

It is, at first thought, a strange business--not so strange that men should give their lives
to it as that there should be so much demand for a purely apocryphal product.  Looked at more
carefully, however, the oddness disappears, and these men are found to be catering to a most
legitimate appetite--an appetite which had its origin deep in the early mind of the race, even
though it is now, perhaps, passing from the control of one of man's senses into that of another.

Latinism, as a creed, is dead, or dying.  There are not many Latinists left, find the pessimistic,
melancholy folk who found all the beauty of the world in "youth and death and the old age of
roses" have appeared, probably never to return.  Latinism was a flavor of the soul, and the
modern soul rarely, if ever, assumes that flavor.  What Latinism did, however, was to teach
the appreciation of the dignity of time, the beauty of the passing years, and their enriching
effect on things and men.  This quality is now extant as a matter of taste, a mental attribute,
and it is widely conceived to be a sign of cultivation to "pooh-pooh whatever's fresh and new"
in favor of something which has at least the appearance of age with or without the richness
and mellowness thereof.  After all, the mellowness is the essence; if the years merely age
without mellowing a thing, they have done it no good; the same thing new is the more desirable
article.

