In this hotel we waited two weeks, patiently at times, restlessly at other times. What would
we do if the Bertha failed to appear? Possibly she was lost, and now drifting, a worthless
derelict, at the mercy of the winds! Not another boat would or could carry us, tickets on each
one having long ago been sold. If we should be frozen in all winter, with no way of letting
our friends at home know of our whereabouts for six months, how terrible would be their anxiety,
how hard for us in this exposed spot near the Arctic Sea! Many times a day and in the night
did this emergency present itself to us, and we shuddered. Each day we climbed the hill a quarter
of a mile away to look, Robinson Crusoe like, over the ocean to see if we could discover the
"Bertha."

In the meantime, with note book and pencil in hand I often sat in the parlor; and, while occupied
to a certain extent, I gathered sundry bits of information regarding the gold fields in this
wonderful new Golconda. Two million dollars, it was said, had already been extracted from the
beach at Nome, and no estimate could be made on what was still there. The pay streak ran to
the water's edge, and even farther, but just how far, no one knew.

Back of this beach spread the tundra, an expanse of marsh, ice and water, which extends some
four miles inland. The size of the claims allowed by law is one thousand three hundred and
twenty feet in length, and six hundred and sixty feet in width; or about twenty acres of land.
The insignificant sum of $2.50 is required to be paid the recorder.

In the York District the area allowed for claims is smaller, being five hundred feet in width,
and the length depending on the geographical formation or creek upon which the claim is situated.

North of Nome there are ninety to one hundred miles of gold-bearing beach to be worked, and
again to the south a vast stretch of like character extending to Norton Bay. The tundra, which
is nothing but the old beach, follows the present shore, and is fully as rich as the surf-washed
sands. More productive and larger than all is the inland region traversed by rivers and creeks
that form a veritable network of streams, all bordered by gold-producing soil.

Anvil Creek, Sunset Gulch, Snow Gulch and Dexter Creek, near Nome, are all exceedingly rich;
one claim on Snow Gulch having been sold for $185,000, and another for $13,000.

Golovin Bay District is situated eighty-five miles east of Nome City, and is large and very
rich. Fish River is the principal one in this section, and has innumerable small tributaries
running into it, most of which are also rich in gold.

Casa de Paga is a tributary of the Neukluk River, and very rich. On Ophir Creek, claim No.
four, above Discovery, $48,000 was taken out in nineteen days by the Dusty Diamond Company
working seventeen men. On number twenty-nine above Discovery on Ophir Creek, seventeen dollars
were taken out a day per man, who dug out frozen gravel, thawed it by the heat of a coal-oil
stove, and afterward rocked it.

There was much discussion over the rights of those claiming mining lands located by the power
of attorney; though the majority of men here seemed to believe they would hold good, and many
such papers were made out in due legal form.

At last, on the morning of October ninth, the "Bertha" really appeared. It was a clear, cold
day, sunny and calm. I ran in high spirits to the top of the hill overlooking the bay to get
a good view. Sure enough, there lay the "Bertha" on the bright waters as though she had always
been there. How rejoiced everyone was! How relieved were those who intended to remain here
because of the additions to the winter's supplies, and how rejoiced were those waiting to get
away? How we all bustled about, packing up, buying papers and magazines just from the steamer,
sealing and stamping letters, making notes in diaries, taking kodak views, saying good-bye
to acquaintances, ad infinitum.

All were willing to leave. Finally on the afternoon of the tenth we were stowed into the big
covered barge which was to take us out to the "Bertha." It was cold and draughty inside, so
we found a sheltered place in the sun on some piles of luggage, and sat there. As the "Bertha"
was reached, a gangplank was thrown over to the barge, which came as close alongside as possible,
and up this steep and narrow board we climbed, clinging to a rope held by men on both decks.

Our trouble had now begun. We were overjoyed at making a start at last, but under what conditions!
The river steamer "Hannah" had been a model of neatness as compared with this one. On deck
there were coops of chickens, and pens of live sheep and pigs brought from San Francisco to
be put off at Nome, as well as a full passenger list for the same place. On the way here a
landing had been attempted at Nome, but the surf had been so tremendous that it could not be
accomplished, and passengers still occupied the staterooms that we were to have. However, we
were temporarily sandwiched in, and, about four P. M., said good-bye to St. Michael.

It was a lovely day and the waters of the bay were very calm. Along shore in the most sheltered
places were numbers of river steamers and smaller craft being snugly tucked up for the winter.
From three tall flagstaffs on shore there floated gracefully as many American flags as though
to wish us well on our long journey out to civilization.

That night on board was simply pandemonium. Hundreds of people had no beds, and were obliged
to sit or walk about, many sitting in corners on the floor, or on piles of luggage or lying
under or upon the tables. Every seat and berth were taken. Many of the staterooms below were
filled from floor to ceiling with flour in sacks for Nome, as well as every foot of space in
passage-ways or pantries. Many men were so disorderly from drink that they kept constantly
swearing and quarreling, and one man, in a brawl, was almost toppled into the sea. To make
things worse, the stench from the pens of the animals on deck became almost unbearable, and
the wind came up, making the water rough.

There was no sleep for us that night. We longed to reach Nome that we might be rid of some
of these objectionable things, and hoped for an improvement afterward.

From St. Michael to Nome, the distance is about one hundred and twenty-five miles, and the
latter place was reached about eight A. M. A little before daylight we had been startled by
a series of four sudden shocks or jars, the first being accompanied by a very distinct creaking
of timbers of the ship, so that some of us rose and dressed; but the ship had apparently sustained
no injury, and we proceeded on our way. Whether we had struck a rock, or only a sand-bar, we
never knew, for the ship's men laughed and evaded our questions; but the passengers believed
that the boat had touched a reef or rock, hidden, perhaps, beneath the surface of the sea.

By daylight the animals had been removed to a barge, and soon after breakfast the Nome passengers
were taken ashore in like manner, for the surf was so heavy on the beach, and there being no
docks or wharves, it was impossible for a large steamer to get nearer.

Away in the distance to the north lay the famous new gold camp of Nome. Stretched for miles
along the beach could be seen the little white tents of the beach miners, back of which lay
the town proper, and still back, the rolling hills now partly covered with snow. Not a tree
or shrub could be seen, though we strained our eyes through a strong glass in an effort to
find them. A few wooden buildings larger than the rest were pointed out as the Alaska Commercial
Company's warehouses and offices, near where the loaded barges were tossed by the huge breakers
toward the beach.

Passengers now went ashore to visit the camps, but to my great disappointment I was not allowed
to do so on account of the tremendous surf. When, after watching others, seeing their little
boats tossed like cockle shells upon the sands, and hearing how thoroughly drenched with salt
water many of the people were while landing, I gave it up, and remained on board.

For five days we lay anchored outside, while stevedores loaded supplies from the "Bertha" on
barges towed ashore by the side-wheeler "Sadie." For hours the wind would blow and the breakers
and surf run so high that nothing could be done; then at sundown, perhaps, the wind would die
away, and men were put to work unloading again. The calls of those lifting and tugging, the
rattle of pulleys and chains, never were stilled night or day if the water was passably smooth,
and we learned to sleep soundly amid all the confusion.

Next morning the steamer "Cleveland" cast anchor near the "Bertha." Presently we saw a small
boat lowered over the side and two women were handed down into it, four men following and seating
themselves at the oars. The ship on which the women had first sailed had been wrecked on St.
George's Island; from there they were rescued by the revenue cutter "Bear," transferred to
the "Cleveland," and were now going ashore at Nome, their destination. As they passed us we
noticed that they sat upright in the middle of the lifeboat, the hoods of their cloaks drawn
quite over their heads. We were told that one of these women had come to meet her lover and
be married, and we felt like cheering such heroism.

Next day the bodies of several men were picked up on the beach near town. They had started
for Cape Prince of Wales in a small boat and been overtaken by disaster. Many were dying of
fever on shore, and nurses, doctors and drugs were in great demand.

Many tales of interest now reached our ears, but not many can here be given.

One of the first American children to open his eyes to the light of day in this bleak and barren
place--Nome City--was Little Willie S. His parents lived in a poor board shack or house which
his father had built just back of the golden beach sands. Here the surf, all foam-tipped, spread
itself at the rising and falling of the tides, and here the miners toiled day after day washing
out the precious gold.

It was here that Willie's papa, soon after the baby came, sickened and died. He had worked
too long in the wind and rain, and they laid him under the tundra at the foot of the hill.

For a time the baby grew. The mother and child were now dependent upon the community for support,
but the burly and generous miners did not allow them to want. Willie was a great pet in the
mining camp; the men being delighted with a peep of his tiny, round face and pink fingers.

The little child could have easily had his weight in gold dust, or anything else, had he wanted
it. Big, shining nuggets had already been given him to cut his teeth upon when the time came,
but that time never came.

Willie died one day in his mother's arms, while her hot tears fell like rain upon his face.

Then they laid him to sleep beside his papa under the tundra, where the shining wheat-gold
clung to the moss roots and sparkled as brightly as the frost and snow which soon covered everything.

When spring came Willie's mamma found the baby's tiny grave, and put wild flowers and grasses
upon it, and there they nodded their pretty heads above the spot where Willie and his papa
quietly sleep.

Passengers for San Francisco were now coming on board with their luggage. Several men were
brought on board on spring beds, being ill with no contagious disease. A box containing the
body of a man, who had shot himself the day before, was placed upon the hurricane deck, lashed
down, and covered with tarpaulins. Strong boxes of gold bullion, with long, stout ropes and
boards attached in case of accident, were stowed away in as safe a place as could be found.
Copies of the first issue of the "Nome News" were bought at fifty cents a copy; size, four
pages about a foot square. Beach sand and pebbles, were handed about in many funny receptacles,--pickle
jars, tin cans, flour sacks,--any old thing would do if only we had the pleasure of seeing
the golden sand.

One night about three o'clock the barge brought the last passengers and freight. The water
was smooth, the moon shone brightly, there was no wind, and the captain and his mate gave their
orders in quick, stern tones. They were in haste to leave. They had lingered here too long
already. All were soon hustled on board; the "Sadie" and her barges moved away; we took a last,
long look at Nome as she stretched herself on the golden sands of the beach under her electric
lights; the "Bertha" whistled, stuck her nose into the rollers and steamed away.

A more majestic old body of water than Behring Sea would be hard to find; and we remember it
with thanksgiving, for we had no storms or rough weather during the eight hundred and fifty
miles to Unalaska.

Right glad was I that we were fortunate in having a pleasant little party of eight or ten persons,
and our evenings were spent in visiting, spinning yarns, and singing songs, while some hours
each day were passed on the hurricane deck. Here we became familiar with the sea phrases commonly
used, and watched the old salts "bracing the mast arms," "hoisting the jibs," or "tacking,"
and could tell when we had a "cross sea," a "beam sea," or a "sou' wester." As we neared Unalaska
on the Aleutian Islands, the sea became rough, and we had more wind, but we joyfully sighted
high hills or rocks to the east, and bade good-bye to old Behring. For three and a half days
he had behaved well, and never will we quietly hear him maligned.

Unalaska, sweet isle of the sea! How beautiful she looked to our eyes which had only seen water
for days! Its bold and rocky cliffs, its towering peaks snow capped; its sequestered and winding
valleys, and bright, sparkling waterfalls; its hillsides in all the artistic shades of red,
brown, yellow, green, purple, black and white; its water in all the tints of blue and azure,
reflecting sky that looked

   "As though an angel in his upward flight,
    Had left his mantle floating in mid-air."

All, all, greeted the eye of the worn voyager most restfully.

Clusters of quaint red buildings were soon seen nestling under the mountain--that was Dutch
Harbor, and a mile farther on we arrived at the dock at Unalaska. We would be here twenty-four
hours taking on fresh water, coal, and food, they told us, and we all ran out like sheep from
a pen, or school children at intermission. We drank fresh water from the spring under the green
hillside; we bought apples and oranges at the store, and furs of the furrier; we rowed in a
skiff and scampered over the hills to Dutch Harbor; we watched jelly-fish and pink star-fish
in the water; we saw white reindeer apparently as tame as cows browsing on the slopes; we visited
an old Greek church, and were kept from the very holiest place where only men were allowed
to go, retaliating when we came to the cash box at the door--we dropped nothing in; we climbed
the highest mountain near by, and staked imaginary gold claims after drinking in the beauties
of the views which encompassed us; we snapped our kodaks repeatedly, and then, having reached
the limit of our time and strength, wended our way back to the steamer now ready to sail.

Leaving the harbor, we all stayed on deck as long as possible trying to fix the grandeur of
the scenery in our minds so it could not slip away, and then Priest Rock was passed, we had
turned about eastward, and were in Unimak Pass. Here the wind blew a gale from the west, on
account of which we were obliged to go below to our staterooms after watching the sailors lash
everything on the hurricane deck well down in case of storm. After a few hours we left the
Pass, with its precipitous cliffs, its barren and rocky slopes, its cones of extinct volcanoes,
its rough and deep water, and headed due southeast for "Frisco."

Many unpleasant people and things we found on board as we proceeded, for not all of these had
been left at Nome; but with a philosopher's fortitude we studied to overlook everything disagreeable,
and partly succeeded. That our efforts were not a complete success was due partly, at least,
to our early education and large stock of ideality, and we were really not so much to blame.

The remainder of our journey was somewhat monotonous, broken only by drunken brawls at midnight
on deck, waking us from sound slumbers; or the sight of a whale spouting during the day. Sometimes
a breeze would spring up from the wrong direction, rolling us for a few hours, causing us to
prefer a reclining posture instead of an upright one, and giving our complexions a still deeper
lemonish cast; sometimes we were well inclined to feed the fishes in the sea, and did not;
but at all times we were thankful that matters were no worse.

Then, after many days out from Unalaska we began to look for land. Seagulls and goonies had
followed in the wake of our ship, and rested themselves each day aloft in the rigging. Sails
were now and then seen in the distance, like the spreading white wings of enormous swans gliding
quietly over the bosom of the deep, and we realized that we were nearing land. In the darkness
one night there came to us a little white boat containing three men,--one was a pilot to guide
us safely through the beautiful Golden Gate; the light on Point Bonita was sighted--we were
almost home.

We were now six weeks out from Dawson and twenty-one days from Nome; we had no storms, accidents
or deaths on board, and carried five hundred passengers, as well as three million dollars in
gold. I had been away from home four months without a day's illness, and during my trip through
Alaska had traveled seventy-five hundred miles, nearly one-half of this distance alone.

CHAPTER VII.

GOING TO NOME.

One beautiful day in the spring of 1900 I sailed again for Alaska--this time for Nome from
San Francisco. An English family consisting of the mother, one son and a daughter were to accompany
me, and we had spent weeks in making our preparations. We were taking supplies of clothing,
food, tents and bedding sufficient to last until some of our numerous plans of work after our
arrival brought in returns. My hope was to meet my father there, for he had written that he
thought he should go to the new gold fields, where he could do beach mining.

I was not above doing any honest work, and felt confident that I could make my way if I could
gain an entrance into that country. The English people were all workers, and I had known them
for ten years or more.

Our steamer was the good ship "St. Paul," belonging to the Alaska Commercial Company, and was
advertised to sail on May twenty-fifth. When I laughingly called the attention of one of the
owners of the ship to the fact that that date fell upon Friday, and many persons objected to
sailing upon that day, he postponed the starting of the "St. Paul" to May twenty-sixth, and
we left the dock on Saturday afternoon amid the cheers and hand-waving of thousands of people
who had come to see the big boat off for Nome.

The steamer was well fitted out, spick and span in fresh carpets and paint, and crowded to
the utmost capacity for comfort. Every stateroom was full; each seat at the tables occupied.
Not a foot of space above or below decks was left unused, but provision was made for all, and
the ship was well manned.

I was now much gratified to learn that there were many on board whom I had met before; that
the steward, stewardess and several of the waiters had been on duty on the steamer "Bertha"
during my trip out from Alaska the fall before, while I was upon speaking terms with a dozen
or more of the passengers with whom I had traveled from the same place. Of passengers we had,
all told, four hundred and eighty-seven. Of these thirty-five were women. There was only one
child on board, and that was the little black-eyed girl with her Eskimo mother and white father
from Golovin Bay whom I had seen at St. Michael some months before, and who was now going back
to her northern home. She wore a sailor suit of navy blue serge, trimmed with white braid,
and was as coy and cunning as ever, not speaking often to strangers, but laughing and running
away to her mother when addressed.

From the day we sailed from San Francisco until we reached Nome I missed no meals in the dining
salon, a pace which my English friends and others could not follow, for they were uncomfortably
ill in the region of their digestive apparatus for several days. I slept for hours each day
and thoroughly enjoyed the trip.

During the nine days' sail from San Francisco to Unalaska, a distance of two thousand three
hundred and sixty-eight miles, I studied well the passengers. We had preachers on board, as
well as doctors, lawyers, merchants and miners, and there were women going to Nome to start
eating houses, hotels and mercantile shops. There were several Swedish missionaries; one, a
zealous young woman from San Francisco, going to the Swedish Mission at Golovin Bay.

This young person was pretty and pleasant, and I was glad to make her acquaintance as well
as that of three other women speaking the same tongue and occupying the next stateroom to mine.
The last named were going to start a restaurant in Nome. As they were sociable, jolly, and
good sailors for the most part, I enjoyed their society. They had all lived in San Francisco
for years, and though not related to each other, were firm friends of long standing and were
uniting their little fortunes in the hope of making greater ones.

The young missionary was a friend to the other three, and I found no better or more congenial
companions on board the ship than these four honest, hard-working women, so full of hope, courage
and good sense as well as Christianity. Little did I then think that these people, placed by
a seeming chance in an adjoining stateroom, were to be my fellow-workers and true friends,
not only for the coming months in that Arctic land to which we were going, but, as the sequel
will show, perhaps for years to come.

Not many days had passed when we found that we had on board what few steamers can boast of,
and that was an orchestra of professional musicians among the waiters. These were men going,
with all the others, to seek their fortunes in the new gold fields, working their passage as
waiters on the ship to Nome, where they intended to leave it. Three evenings in the week these
musicians, with the help of several singers on board, gave concerts in the dining salon, which,
though impromptu, were very enjoyable.

A sweet and trained singer was the English girl of our company, and she sang many times, accompanied
by the stringed instruments of the musicians, much to the delight of the assembled passengers.
When she sang, one evening, in her clear sympathetic voice the selection, "Oh, Where Is My
Wandering Boy Tonight," there was not a dry eye in the room, and the mind of many a man went
back to his old home and praying mother in some far distant state, making him resolve to write
oftener to her that she might be comforted with a knowledge of his whereabouts and welfare.
These evenings were sometimes varied by recitations from an elocutionist on board; and a practised
clog dancer excited the risibles of the company to the extent that they usually shouted with
laughter at his exhibition of flying heels.

Day after day passed. Those who were continually seasick had diversion enough. It was useless
for us to tell them a pathetic tale of some one, who, at some time, had been more ill than
they, because they would not believe a word of it, and it was equally useless to recommend
an antidote for mal de mer such as theirs. "No one was ever so ill before," they said. They
knew they should die and be buried at sea, and hoped they would if that would put an end to
their sufferings. We tried at last to give them comfort by recommending out of former experiences
ship's biscuit, dry toast and pop-corn as remedies, but only received black looks as our reward.
We then concluded that a diet of tea, coffee and soup was exactly such a one as the fishes
would recommend could they speak, these favorite and much used liquids keeping up a continual
"swishing" in one's interior regions, and causing one to truthfully speak of the same as "infernal"
instead of internal. But they were all tree physical as well as free moral agents and decided
these things for themselves.

At last we entered the Japan current and the weather was warmer and more enjoyable. On Monday,
June fourth, we saw from the deck a few drifting logs and a quantity of seaweed, and these,
with the presence of gulls and goonies flying overhead, convinced us that we were nearing land.

We were not mistaken. After eating an excellent six o'clock dinner we went above to find ourselves
between high, rocky cliffs, which loomed up into mountains not far distant, and we knew we
were again at the Aleutian Islands and in the rough waters of Unimak Pass. As we drew nearer
and entered the harbor so well land-locked, the sun dipped low into yellow-red western waters,
thereby casting long shadows aslant our pathway so delicately shaded in greens.

The little hamlet of Dutch Harbor nestled cosily at the foot of the mountains which bordered
the bay, and here numbers of ships lay anchored at rest. Passing along easily beyond another
high mountain, we were soon at the dock of Unalaska, beside other great ships in port. Both
groups of craft were evidently waiting for the ice to clear from Behring Sea before proceeding
on their way northward, and we counted sixteen ships of different kinds and sizes, the majority
of them large steamers. All were loaded with passengers and freight for Nome. Scout boats had
already been sent out to investigate and find, if possible, a passage through the ice fields,
and the return of these scouts with good news was anxiously watched and waited for, as the
most desired thing at that time was a speedy and safe landing on the supposedly golden beach
sands of Nome.

At Unalaska we spent four days taking on fresh water and coal, during which time passengers
visited back and forth from the waiting steamers, many persons having friends on other boats
and each having a curiosity to see if they were faring as well or ill as he, comparing notes
as to the expense of traveling with the different companies, etc. Passengers on the "St. Paul"
agreed that they had "no kick comin'," which was one of the commonest slang phrases, intended
to mean that they had no fault to find with the Alaska Commercial Company and their steamer
"St. Paul." All were well cared for and satisfied, as well they might be, with the service
of the ship's men.

Leaving Unalaska the sun shone clear and cold upon the mountains where in places the sides
looked black from the late fires started in the deep tundra by miscreants. The tops of the
mountains were covered with snow. Down deep gorges dashed mountain waters of melting snow and
ice, hurrying to leap off gullied and rocky cliffs into the sea. Their progress was never impeded.
No tree nor shrub obstructed the way with gnarled old trunks, twisted roots, or low hanging
branches, for none grow in Unalaska, and the bold dignity and grandeur of the mountains is
never diminished by these lesser objects.

As our ship sailed out into Behring Sea we were closely followed by the steamer "George W.
Elder," whose master, an old friend of our captain, had decided to follow in our wake, he being
less familiar than the latter with Alaskan waters, and having confidence in the ability of
his friend to successfully pilot both ships to Cape Nome.

CHAPTER VIII.

FRESH DANGER.

At this plan all the passengers appeared pleased. We were now entering upon the most dangerous
part of our voyage. No one knew what was before us. If our ship should receive serious damage
from the ice floes or bergs with which we were almost sure to come in contact, it would be
well if we were accompanied by a sister ship which could render assistance. If she were in
trouble and we unharmed, we could lend a helping hand to her; and so none murmured at the unique
arrangement.

Nothing, however, was seen of the much dreaded ice until about noon on Sunday, June tenth.
The air had been steadily growing colder so that woolen clothing and fur wraps were in demand.
Men thrust their hands into their pockets, or drew on gloves while they stamped their feet
upon deck to keep themselves warm in the open air. Soon to our right lay a great semi-circular
field of ice, in places piled high, looking cold, jagged and dangerous. In the distance those
having field-glasses saw two clumsy, slow-moving objects which they could easily distinguish
as polar bears on floating cakes of ice.

By the latter we were soon surrounded, and were obliged, slowly and cautiously, to pick our
way through towards the narrowest spot, or where the nearest open water could be seen beyond.
Floating ice now lay all around us, appearing only a few feet above the water; below it the
bergs extended many times that distance. Sometimes they were small and looked harmless enough;
but many were large, massive, and full of death-dealing power if urged against the sides of
a ship by the wind or struck accidentally. Carefully we picked our way along, watched as we
were by every soul aboard the "Elder" following, until we had successfully made our way through
the ice pack and glided out into the blue waters beyond. Then came a great shout from the throats
of spectators on both ships, and praises for the master and his crew who were doing such good
work were loudly sung.

Immediately our manoeuvres were repeated by the "Elder," and we watched her with interest equal
to their own; then as she passed the danger point and swung safely through the ice bergs and
out, both ships, like fresh, uncaged birds, sped lightly and swiftly over the water northward.

In a few hours we were awakened from afternoon naps by the ringing of the ship's bell and found
ourselves again surrounded by floating bergs. A man in the bow was taking soundings with lead
and line, calling out every few seconds. "No bottom! No bottom!" and then hauling in the lead
again as the ship crept carefully along. From submerged floes there was now the greatest danger,
but we gradually drew away from all floating ice and sailed safely away as before.

Each Sunday on board the "St. Paul" had been marked by some religious service conducted by
one of the preachers, while an improvised quartet of voices led the singing. June tenth service
had been held in the forenoon, when a short sermon had followed the singing of a few familiar
old hymns by the assembled passengers. Now in the early evening, while I sat with a few friends
in the dining salon rehearsing hymns for the coming service, suddenly the ship's bell rang
out upon the still night air. Instantly there came a jar, a quiver, and all rushed out upon
deck to see what had happened. We had been rudely jostled by an unseen ice floe while the eyes
of the pilot had been occupied by the ones visible. Several times this happened. We were in
the midst of a sea of ice floes. There was no visible egress ahead; we must back out, if possible,
as we had come.

Soon our steamer was stopped for the night, and religious services were begun in the dining
salon. About one hundred persons were present. Our quartet sang five or six selections, "Rock
of Ages" and "Throw Out the Life-line" among others. The preacher offered prayer, read Scripture
promises, and spoke feelingly for twenty minutes. He talked of our lives being only short spans,
the length of which depends upon the will of God; and it is the duty of each soul, he said,
to be prepared to meet its Maker.

It was a solemn moment for all. Outside the ice drifted slowly about, thick fog settled over
us, the ship's whistle sounded, and night came on. The loneliness increased.

When the speaker had closed his remarks he asked that the quartet sing "Nearer My God to Thee,"
and we sang it. Sweet and firm was the voice of the English girl now, and when, with uplifted
arm and softly spoken benediction, the minister dismissed us, it was to go upon deck feeling
stronger and much comforted.

There was yet no breath of wind stirring. For this we thanked a kind Providence, for, had the
wind risen, our lives would have been in jeopardy indeed. In that case the massive ice cakes
would have been blown swiftly and heavily about to crush all ships like egg-shells and send
them to the bottom of the sea.

For breakfast we ate yellow corn-bread and bacon with a relish such as it never gave at home,
and even those who had been seasick for days were beginning to "get away" with their rations.
At eight in the morning the anchor with its rattling chain was dropped and we lay in an open
spot. An hour later there was no perceptible motion of the ship, the sea was smooth as a carpet,
and our tired captain had gone to bed. For forty-eight hours he had not slept, nor scarcely
left the bridge, and the rest was badly needed.

Two days we lay anchored in a dead calm, waiting for the passing ice to open a way for us through
to Nome. Three ships lay near us, as well as two larger ones out farther in the ice-fields;
but the fog hung grey and persistent over our heads and we could do nothing but wait. Another
concert was given by the musicians, and as the steamer lay gently rocking upon the waters of
the great sea, through the open front windows there floated out to our sister ship the sweet
and pleasing strains of the violins and mandolins.

Were they telling in lively allegretto movements of our safe landing on golden shores, and
of our successful achievements followed by a safe and happy return to home and loved ones?
Or were the adagios mournfully predicting perils, coming disaster and death? Who could tell?
For myself, I felt that whatever came to me would be in accordance with the will and wish of
a Higher Power, and it would be all right in any case. My choice was, of course, from the human
standpoint, for life, happiness and success in the pursuit of gold; but this with me was not
an obstinate nor rebellious sentiment. Should all these good things be denied me, I could say,
it is well. I felt satisfied that the way for my going to Alaska had been wonderfully opened
by an Unseen Influence which I had been taught from earliest childhood to recognize, and this
belief, which was a firm and abiding one, held me calm and contented. Night after night I slept
in my berth as soundly as though at home in my bed, and not even the sudden jolt and quiver
of the icebergs coming often into collision with the ship caused me to waken.

The night of June twelfth, about eleven o'clock, just after having retired, but being still
awake, I heard a sudden and piercing scream. The English madam with me, being still dressed,
rushed upon deck to find out the cause of the disturbance. Rushing towards her with pale and
frightened face was her daughter who had been lunching in the dining salon. An iceberg of immense
proportions and greater height than usual had struck the ship with a crash, coming up suddenly
and most unexpectedly from underneath the fog bank so that the watchful pilot was taken unawares.
The English girl said the berg, when alongside the ship, reached the height of the upper deck
and appeared like a huge mountain of ice from her place at the window. It was consternation
at the sight of what was apparently sure and speedy destruction which had caused the woman's
scream.

Investigation was immediately made of the ship's plates, which, though considerably dented
by the ice, were still, thanks to a kind Providence, intact; and again I settled myself for
the night and slept.

Next day men were restless. They wanted to be on their way to Nome. It was not for this that
they had paid a large price for their tickets and assurances that they would arrive early at
Nome; and they agreed that there was no more danger in steaming ahead than in lying anchored
with the ice bumping into us and liable to break through the ship's sides at any moment.

"Will you sign a petition to the captain asking that he proceed on his way to Nome without
further delay?" asked a friend of me while the "St. Paul" was anchored and the ice still drifting
around us.

"They are circulating such a petition, and have a good many signers, or those who are willing
to sign it, and I wanted to know how you feel about it," said my friend.

"What is the matter with the captain? Did they not announce their confidence in him by coming
aboard this steamer, and has he done anything to cause them to lose faith in his ability to
pilot them safely through? Has he not brought them on their voyage thus far without accident?"
I asked.

"Oh, yes, certainly."

"Then I, for one, shall abide by the captain's judgment, and remain anchored here so long as
he sees fit to order it. You can say to the others that I will sign no petition," said I.

Whether my decision and firmness in the matter had any weight with others, I know not; but
the petition was dropped, and the captain probably never knew that such a thing had been proposed.

The morning of June thirteenth the sun shone out clear and bright. Great fields of ice surrounded
us, and many other ships were also hemmed in at different places. The "Elder" lay contentedly
beside us. It was not so cold when the fog had lifted, and the clearer atmosphere made it possible
to see for many miles over the berg-strewn waters. Men were walking restlessly about on deck
trying to keep their impatience down and their hands and feet warm. They feared that other
ships with hundreds of passengers would land at Nome before they could, and that would mean
loss, perhaps in many ways, to them. We were less than two hundred miles from Nome and could
easily make the run in a day if allowed a free sea.

By this time the face of the steward began to show anxiety and he watched the horizon with
interest. Serving, as he did, nearly fifteen hundred meals daily, he feared a shortage of supplies
if the ship was delayed many days longer. Ten sacks of flour, and fifteen hundred pounds of
meat were used daily, and other things in proportion. For breakfast one day ninety dozen eggs
were fed to the people.

High overhead the stars and stripes were now hoisted to announce our joy at being delivered
from so many dangers, and at leading the way for others to follow. No one could pass us, and
we would, after all, be among the first, if not the very first, to reach Nome.

The captain looked jaded and worn, but happy and relieved, being able now to get some of the
much-needed rest so long denied him when in the ice fields. When congratulated by the passengers
upon his skill, for by this time they had entirely forgotten their discontent of the previous
days and were willing to give him and his crew due praise, he smiled and thanked them kindly,
then went away to rest.

Early next morning anchor was dropped at Nome. At last we had reached our destination. We had
traveled thirty-one hundred and thirty-nine miles in nineteen days and could have done it in
much shorter time had it not been for the ice. Several small ships lay at anchor before us,
but we were immediately followed by many large steamers bringing thousands of people to Nome.
The weather was splendid. Many of the passengers were in such haste to reach shore than they
left without breakfast; but we waited until ten in the morning before boarding the "lighter,"
and I donned a dress suitable to the occasion. This was cut short, and was worn with high,
stout boots, leggings, warm coat, cap and veil, with extra wraps for the trip of two miles
to shore.

Certainly we now presented a very unique spectacle. We were really a sort of Noah's Ark collection,
with the roof of the Ark omitted. Women in abbreviated skirts, long rubber boots, golf capes,
caps and sweaters; men covered in long "raglans," fur coats, "jumpers," or whatever happened
to be at hand; and all rushing pell-mell in the direction of the lighter, by means of which
they hoped to land on the golden beach of Nome. Baggage there was in stacks. There were boxes,
grips, trunks, army sacks; everything but babies, bird cages and band wagons. Passage for an
automobile had been engaged in San Francisco, but at the last moment the lady accompanying
the big machine was suddenly indisposed and obliged to allow the "St. Paul" to sail without her.

The sea was now quite rough. The lighter was brought close alongside. The rope ladder was thrown
over the side of the ship with its lower end dangling upon the lighter's deck, and we were
told we could now go ashore.

This was the moment for which we had longed, and all were ready, like Cassibianca, minus the
fire and peanuts. The fat widow of the company tied her bonnet more tightly under her chin,
clutched at her pudgy skirts, and grasping the deck rail, placed her foot upon the rope ladder
to descend.

"Don't look down!" shouted some one to her, fearing she might grow dizzy if she did so.

"Don't hurry; take your time!" called out another.

"Keep cool and you're all right!" instructed another, at which time the widow, with fluttering
veil, pale face and eyes starting from their sockets with fright reached the lowest round of
the ladder and stepped to the deck of the lighter. Her bonnet was awry, the belt of her dress
had become unfastened, while her skirts were twisted around her in some unaccountable way and
her teeth chattering; but she only drew a long sigh as she sank in a limp heap upon an army
sack marked with big black letters, and said gaspingly: "This is terrible!" Others followed
her example. Some protested they would rather stay on the ship or go back to San Francisco
than scramble down that "beastly rope ladder" swaying as it did back and forth with every motion
of the ship to which it was attached. For myself, I had never posed as especially courageous,
and wondered how I should get on. But I said nothing. From watching the others I had learned
that to "make haste slowly" was a good method to follow in the present case, as a misstep without
a firm hand grip upon the sides of the ladder while descending would be likely to send one
without warning into the yard wide gulf of boiling waters between the ship's side and the lighter,
as the barge was literally dancing attendance upon the vessel in the rough sea.

Finally everything was ready. All passengers had left the ship. The lighter was crowded to
the last inch of space; baggage and freight along the sides, and passengers in the middle,
sitting wherever they could find a box or bag upon which to sit. A tug boat made fast to the
lighter--we said good-bye to the "St. Paul" and moved away.

"We are bidding good-bye to all comforts now!" exclaimed an old Nomeite dubiously, "for we
won't find any on shore; leastwise not unless it has improved more in the last ten months than
I think it has. It was a tough place enough last summer, and that's no josh either!" looking
around him at the ladies of the party and evidently wondering what they would think of the
celebrated mining town.

Many by this time looked sober, but it was not a hard camp that they feared. They had expected
to find a typical camp with all the attendant evils usual in such a place, and now they were
almost there. In fact they looked out over the heaps of baggage towards shore at the long fine
of white tents, buildings of every description from a board shack to a hotel or large store,
and it seemed good in their eyes--very good. For some unseen reason, as the barge, following
as it did at the end of the long line from the tug, rode first upon the top of a big breaker
and then below in the trough, there was a decided longing on the part of some to be on land.
It did not much matter where it was--Europe, Asia, Africa or "any old place"; but as for this
"confounded, zig-zaggin', heavin' old hulk which is tryin' its best to take us to Honolulu
sideways--I want no more of it!" growled one man.

"Give me Nome or I die!" gasped another.

"No more big water in mine for two years, and mebbe by that time they will have air ships to
fly in," muttered a little man as he lay on his back among a pile of bags and gulped at something
in his throat he was trying to keep down.

So the barge bobbed up and down among the breakers, riding to the crest of a wave with a gliding,
graceful motion, only to reach out beyond it, and then, as the waters underneath receded, dropping
heavily with a thud and a splash, making one feel that he was being dealt with most unceremoniously.

The same thing was again and again repeated, until we rode as close to the shore as the tug
could take us, then the line was cut, a rope was thrown us from shore, and with a steam windlass
or other contrivance, we were hauled upon the sands.

Then a gangplank was speedily pushed out over the intervening watery space which the passengers
took their turns in crossing until all stood upon the beach; a few, to be sure, with wet feet,
damp clothing and soggy tempers if some vicious, big breaker in parting had dashed its white
foam-tipped waters over their heads, but all glad and thankful to arrive in Nome at last.

CHAPTER IX.

NOME.

The man who had predicted that we would find no comforts in Nome proved himself a true prophet.
There were none. Crowded, dirty, disorderly, full of saloons and gambling houses, with a few
fourth-class restaurants and one or two mediocre hotels, we found the new mining camp a typical
one in every respect. Prices were sky high. One even paid for a drink of water. Having our
newly found Alaska appetites with us, we at once, upon landing, made our way to an eating house,
the best to be found.

Here a cup of poor tea, a plate of thin soup and questionable meat stew with bread were served
us upon nicked china, soiled table linen and with blackened steel knives and forks, for the
enormous sum of one dollar a head; which so dumbfounded us that we paid it without a murmur,
backed out the door and blankly gazed into each other's faces.

"Such prices will ruin us!" gasped the madam.

"That table linen! Ugh!" shuddered the young man.

"Fifteen cents in California for such a meal!" growled the English girl in her matter-of-fact
way, and with wide distended eyes; while I found such amusement in watching the three faces
before me that I barely found breath to remind them of the two tons of nice things in their
own packing cases at the landing.

"If only they are soon landed," groaned madam, and we set off at our best gait to find the cases.

But we did not succeed. The freight was being unloaded from the ship, we were told, as rapidly
as it was possible to handle it, but one lighter and small tug boat in a very rough sea, unloading
a ship two miles off the beach, must have time; and we waited. Only two or three lighters were
to be had at Nome. Other large steamers were being unloaded, and hundreds of people were hourly
being landed upon the beach. There was no shelter for them anywhere, every building was full,
and confusion was badly confounded. To make matters worse it began to rain. If we could only
find our freight and get our tents, beds, supplies, etc., we would be all right, but it would
be impossible that day we found, after making repeated excursions through the freight house
and numberless inquiries at the office.

Something must be done, but what? I now remembered some Dawson acquaintances in town made the
fall before while coming down the Yukon River with my brother. To one family of these I made
my way. They were in the grocery and bakery business on a prominent corner on First street
and their signboard caught my eye.

Blessings on the heads of kind Mr. and Mrs. M. of Nome City! They were delighted to see me.
They lived back of the store in one room, which contained their bed, stove, cupboard, baby-organ,
table, chairs and trunks; but they also owned a one-room shack next door, which was vacant
for a few days, being already rented to a dentist who would make some repairs before taking
possession. I could bring my friends and baggage into this without charge, if I wished, until
we secured our freight, Mrs. M. said kindly, and I pressed her hand in real gratitude with
many thanks.

"I am almost ashamed to show you the room," said the kind little woman, as she unlocked the
door of the shack and stepped inside, "but it is better than no shelter in this rain, and you
can have a fire in the stove," pointing to a small and rusty coal heater in one corner. "I
wish I had some blankets or fur robes to lend you, but everything I have is in use. You are
welcome to bring in as many friends as you like if they will share the poor place with you;
and you are quite safe here, too, for you see the barracks are just opposite," pointing across
the muddy little alley down which a few boards had been laid for a sidewalk; "and the soldiers
are here to keep order, though they do sometimes find it rather a hard job."

Then I thanked the little woman again most heartily, and, as I took from her hands the door-key
and stepped outside into the rain to bring my waiting friends and baggage from the freight
house, I offered a little prayer of thanks to our good Father, and hurried away.

At the steamer's landing all was hurly-burly and noise. It was now late in the afternoon, still
raining at intervals, and muddy under foot, though the weather was not cold. Finding my English
friends I told them of Mrs. M.'s kindness and offer of her room, which they were well pleased
to accept with me, and we gathered up our luggage and started for the place. Passing through
the freight house on our way to the street, madam said, pointing to the figures of two woman
huddled in a corner:

"See! Judge R. from the St. Paul has not found a room yet, and Mrs. R. and her friend, the
nurse, are sitting there, waiting for the judge to return! His wife is nearly sick, and they
have no idea where they can get a room. Judge R. has been looking hours for one without success,"
she said, in a sympathetic tone.

"Let us speak to them," said I, going over to where the ladies sat.

Hearing their story, and seeing for myself that both women were cold, hungry and disheartened,
I decided on the spot to share Mrs. M.'s hospitality with them; made the proposal, which they
very thankfully accepted, and we trailed off up the street laden with luggage.

Then madam's son was found, informed of the situation, asked to bring Judge R. and a few loaves
of bread from the shop, along with the remaining luggage, to our new camping place in the little
board shack near the barracks.

Seeing us arrive, and that the three elderly ladies looked worn and travel-stained, Mrs. M.
urged us to come into her room and take tea and crackers which she had already placed upon
the table. This invitation the older ladies gladly accepted, while the English girl and myself
looked after our new lodgings.

Here now was a state of things indeed! The entire stock of luggage for seven grown persons
was soon deposited in the middle of the floor. The room of which the shack consisted was about
eight by ten feet square, set directly upon the ground, from which the water oozed at every
step of the foot. Two small windows, a front and back door, with the small stove--that was
all. These were our accommodations for the night, and perhaps several nights and days.

Then we two set to work with a will. We swept the floor, we gathered sticks for a fire, we
threw boards down outside the door upon which to walk instead of in the mud, a pail of water
was brought from a hydrant after paying twenty-five cents for it, and a box was converted into
a table. Luggage was sorted, lunch baskets were ransacked, while tin cups, coffee pot, knives,
forks and spoons were found, with a fresh white cloth upon which to spread the food.

When Judge R. finally appeared, it was supper time. He carried a tin fry-pan under one arm,
a bag containing one dozen eggs, and a few slices of ham on a paper plate, for which articles
he had paid the goodly sum of one dollar and seventy-five cents.

Waving the fry-pan above his old grey head, the jolly judge shouted: "See, the conquering hero
comes! Oh, but I'm hungry! Say, how in the world did you get this place? I hunted four mortal
hours and failed to find a shack, room, or tent for the night. Four thousand people landed
here today, and still they come. Jerusalem crickets! What a crowd! Everybody is in from Dan
to Beersheba! We will have fifteen thousand people here soon if they don't stop coming, and
no shelter for 'em!" Then changing his tone and glancing toward his wife:

"And how is my dear little wifey by this time?" tenderly patting Mrs. R.'s white hand, which
belonged to a woman tipping the beam at two hundred.

"Aren't you glad we came? I am." Then rattling on without giving his wife a chance to speak,
for her eyes had filled with tears:

"I think I've got a 'case' already. Claim number four on D. Creek jumped last winter while
owner was away--jumper won't leave--talked with owner today--think I'll get the job," said
the hopeful old judge, sitting on an empty cracker box and eating bread and cheese from his
fingers.

"Eat your supper, dear," to his wife, who was taking nothing, "and you shall have a bed tonight--the
best in Nome City. See! There it is now," pointing to a big roll of dark brown canvas done
up with a few varnished sticks.

"A folding cot--new patent--good and strong. (It'll need to be strong to hold you up, won't
it, dearie?) Now, please take your tea like a good girl, to brace up your courage. Or would
you like a drop of sherry?"

To all this Mrs. R. shook her head, but she did not speak, neither did she attempt to eat,
for there was a big lump in her throat which prevented.

The rest of our party enjoyed the supper. Some sat on boxes, others stood up, but we ate ham
and eggs, bread, butter and cheese, tea and crackers, pickles, jellies and jams, as being the
greatest "comforts" we could find in the camp, and we made them speedily disappear.

At last the supper things were cleared away, and remaining food repacked in the baskets. The
patent cot was unrolled, set up and made ready for Mrs. R., who was the only one favored with
a bed. The others finally faced the proposition and prepared, as best they could, their chosen
floor spaces for their beds.

All slept in their clothing, for we had no bedding and the night was cold. The two men were
banished to the outer air, where together they smoked and talked of affairs of the day, while
we women unbuttoned our shoes, took out a few hairpins, cold-creamed our sunburned faces, and
then, between jokes, stories and giggling, we settled ourselves, with much difficulty and hard
snuggling, among our bags, raincoats, steamer rugs and wraps on the rough board floor for the
night.

Coming in later, the judge spread his borrowed fur robe upon the floor beside his wife's cot,
covered himself with one-half of the same, chuckling as he did so.

"I'm glad my bones are well cushioned with fat, and that I'm old and tough and like this sort
of thing. I say, wife, isn't it jolly?" And the portly and sunny old judge dropped off to sleep
to keep me awake most of the night by his snoring.

If I slept little that night I did not waste my time. My brain was busy forming plans of action.
It was not wise to have only one plan, for that one might fail. Better to have several, and
some one of these would probably succeed. I felt a good deal of anxiety to know whether my
father or brother had or would come to Nome. If either or both of them came I would have no
further difficulty because I would work for and with them, but if they did not come what was
I to do?

I had little money. I would not go home. I would work. I was a good cook, though I had never
done such work except for our own home folks. I knew that cooking was the kind of service most
in demand in this country from women, for my travels in Alaska the year before had taught me
that. I could teach music, and I could paint passably in water colors and oils; in fact, I
had been a teacher of all three, but in Alaska these luxuries were not in demand. I could not
expect to do anything in these directions, for men and women had come to Nome for gold, expected
to get lots of it, and that quickly. They had no time for Beethoven's sonatas or water color
drawings.

It was now an urgent question of food, shelter and work with all, and the man or woman who
could the quickest devise ways and means, the one who saw the needs of the time and place and
was able to supply those needs, was the one who could make the most money. Of course, being
a woman, I was unable to do beach mining as could a man, and as many men expected to do. Those
who brought large outfits and plenty of money with them were immediately obliged to hire help,
but it was generally a man's help, like carpenter work, hauling and handling supplies or machinery,
making gold washers and sluice boxes, or digging out the gold in the creeks. None of these
could I do. On the steamer all these things had been well talked over among ourselves, for
others besides myself were wondering which way they should turn when they found themselves in Nome.

As to there being any disgrace connected with work of any sort--it never entered my head. From
a child I had been taught that work was honorable, and especially for a woman housework and
cooking were respectable and healthy service. So I had no pride whatever in the matter; it
was only a question of finding the work, and I did not doubt my ability to find it somewhere.

On the voyage from San Francisco I had thought well of the three Swedish women, and believed
they would succeed in their proposed plan of restaurant work. I said to myself that if I were
obliged to seek work I should like to be with them if possible; or, at least, with some of
the "lucky Swedes," as the rich Anvil Creek mine owners were usually designated. These miners
all hired cooks for their camps, as they kept large numbers of men at work day and night on
the Anvil Creek claims, the season being so short for placer mining in this country. Anvil
Creek was only four miles away and the "Star Restaurant," as my friends had already named their
proposed eating-house, would be headquarters for all the Scandinavians on Anvil and the entire
district. For this reason, and because the three had so many acquaintances who would bring
them patronage, and because their pleasant faces and agreeable manners always made friends
for them, I felt sure that they would be able to give me work if they chose and I so desired.
Then, too, there were the several Dawson families of my acquaintance here, and I would find
them; possibly some of them might give me work if I asked them.

However, the first move to be made was to find our freight and baggage, and a spot upon which
to pitch our tents, and the sooner that was done the better, as the test and cleanest camping
places were fast being appropriated by the newcomers hourly landing. It was not easy to find
a clean, dry spot for a tent, as I had found the day before that the black, soggy soil was
hardly free from frost a foot down, and this made it everywhere marshy, as the water could
not keep down nor run off where it was level. Some one on the steamer who had been in Nome
before had advised us to pitch our tents on the "Sandspit" at the mouth of Snake River, as
that was the cleanest, driest and most healthful spot near fresh water that we could find;
and my mind was made up that it was to the Sandspit I would go. Many had been the warnings
from friends before leaving home about drinking impure water, getting typhoid fever and other
deadly diseases, and without having any particular fear as to these things I still earnestly
desired a clean and healthful camping place.

This, then, was the way I planned during most of the first night after landing at Nome. If
I slept it was towards morning, when I had become accustomed to the regular and stentorian
snores of the old judge; or when, for a few moments, after turning in his sleep, his snorts
and wheezes had not yet reached their loudest pitch; and when my wishes had shaped themselves
so distinctly into plans for work that I felt relieved and full of confidence, and so slept
a little.

Next day I looked for my father. At the landing, on the streets, in the stores, at all times
I was on the lookout, though it was a difficult matter to find any one in a crowd such as that
in Nome. I saw several acquaintances from Dawson the year before, and people from different
steamers that I knew, but not my father. At nine o'clock next morning three of us started out
to find the Sandspit, with, if possible, a good camping spot to which we could take our freight
as soon as it was landed, and part of our number was detailed to stay at the landing while
we investigated. Down through the principal thoroughfare we pushed our way, now on plank sidewalk,
now in the middle of the street if the walks were too crowded; but going to the west end of
town till we came to Snake River Bridge, where we crossed to the Sandspit. At the toll-gate
we easily passed, as all women were allowed to go over free, men only being charged ten cents
toll. Here we quickly found a clean, dry place on the river bank a hundred feet below the bridge
and two hundred feet from the ocean, which we chose for our tents. Now arose the question,
would any one have any objection to our pitching our tents temporarily? Seeing some men striking
camp near by we asked them. They told us that we could get permission, they thought, from an
old captain near by on a stranded boat, now being used as an eating-house, and to him we went.
He was not in.

Going back to the Sandspit, it was decided that I should remain upon the spot, while my companions
went back to the landing. I was to remain there till some of them came back. This I did, sitting
on a box in the sunshine with my kodak, umbrella and lunch basket beside me for hours. When
madam returned, saying their search for their freight was still unavailing, I left her in my
place and again called upon the captain.

Calling the third time at his boat, I found him and secured his ready permission to temporarily
pitch our tents upon the sands, for he was an Alderman with adjoining "town lots," he told us.

By six o'clock that afternoon a part of madam's baggage and freight was found, hauled by dog-team
through town to the Sandspit and deposited upon the ground. Then we bestirred ourselves to
get a tent up in which we could sleep, as I, for one, was determined not to be kept awake by
the judge's snores another night if I had to work till morning. The others shared my feelings,
and we worked like beavers till midnight. By that time a small tent had been put up, boxes
of bedding unpacked, as well as cooking utensils, oil-stoves and foods, so that we could begin
cooking.

At the continuous daylight we were much pleased. Coming gradually into it, as we had done on
the steamer, we were prepared for it, but the advantage of a continuous day to a busy, hustling
camp like this one, had not presented itself to us until we ourselves attempted to work half
the night; then we realized it fully. At nine in the evening a beautiful twilight enveloped
all, restful to nerves and eyes, but still light enough to read by.

At ten o'clock it was lighter, and upon the placid waters of Snake River, only fifteen feet
away, lay quiet shadows cast from the opposite side, clearly and beautifully reflected. A few
small steamers lay further down stream near the river's mouth, row boats were tied along the
edge of the water, and on the Sandspit below us was a camp of Eskimos, their tiny canoes and
larger skin boats being hauled upon shore beside them for safety. At midnight the sun was almost
shining, the air was salt, fresh and clear, while the sky seemed to hang low and lovingly above
our heads.

After eating a midnight lunch of our own getting of bread and butter with hot tea, we deposited
ourselves, still dressed, upon the tops of madam's big packing cases, from which had been taken
pillows and blankets, and slept soundly till morning, notwithstanding the fact that the hammers
of hundreds of carpenters were busy around us all night.

Next morning all felt fresh and invigorated. The sun shone brightly. In the roadstead two miles
away lay several newly arrived steamers, their deep-toned whistles frequently sounding over
the intervening waters. It was a beautiful sight and welcome sound. How easily the long and
graceful breakers rolled and broke upon the sands. With what music the foam-tipped wavelets
spread their edges, like the lace-trimmed ruffles on some lady's gown, upon the smooth and
glistening beach. How the white tents everywhere looked like doves of peace just alighted,
and the little boats danced up and down on the river. I was glad to be there. I enjoyed it.
Nothing, not even the hard work, the storms, nor the bitter Arctic winter which came afterwards
ever effaced from my memory the beautiful pictures of river, sea and sky repeatedly displayed
during those first novel and busy days at Nome.

CHAPTER X.

THE FOUR SISTERS.

It was during the first excitement of the gold discoveries in the Klondyke that four sisters
left their home in Chicago and started for Dawson. They were young, hopeful, ambitious and
handsome. They owned a town lot in the city, but they had not the means with which to erect
a building upon it, and the money would never be forthcoming if they remained where they were.
The ordinary salary of a working woman in office or store was not sufficient to allow them
more than a trifle above necessary living expenses, and they could see themselves old, wrinkled
and grey before they could hope to attain their desired object.

Reaching Dawson safely, as they did after weeks of peril and many novel experiences, they set
to work at what seemed to them at the moment the most lucrative labor of which they were capable.
They were fitted for laundry work only by being well and strong physically, and by having a
willingness to do whatever they first found to do.

This proved to be work at the wash-tub. Here the four women labored month after month with
a will, with the result that at the end of a year their bank account was not insignificant,
they owned several gold claims, and in all the mining camp there were none who did not respect
the four sisters.

Then came their first dark days. It was midsummer. Down among the grass roots and between the
rocks of the hillside back of the famous camp, there trickled numerous fresh water springs,
pure and cold when they left their sequestered sources among the seams and fissures, but gaining
nothing of purity when spread out upon the little plain now thickly dotted with cabins.

Here in the hurry and rush of the fast growing camp, when fortunes came quickly, and men lived
at a rapid pace, there was little time for sanitary precautions, and so it presently happened
that a shadow, like a huge black bird of ill omen, suddenly hovered above the camp, sending
a shudder through its entire length. A tiny germ, so small as to pass unnoticed and unheeded
by, and yet withal so deadly as to be called a plague, crept along, insinuating itself into
the streamlets making their way as best they could to their father, the Yukon; and the fever
laid low many victims.

Early and late had the sisters toiled, never in a half-hearted way, but untiringly, day after
day, until one of their number, being perhaps less strong, or more weary from work to which
she had been unaccustomed, and more susceptible to disease, was stricken with fever, and after
only a few days' illness, whispered her loving good-byes.

This happened in the summer of 1899, and rumors of the great gold strike at Nome now reached
Dawson. One sister had been persuaded by a member of the Dawson Bar to make for him a happy
home during the remainder of his life, and she was married.

Again their party numbered the original four, though there were now only three sisters.

The excitement in Dawson regarding the new Nome gold fields daily increased, and it was stated
by reliable steamer men from St. Michael that the new strike rivaled that of the Klondyke.

The little party of four decided to go to Nome. In a short time their business was arranged,
sales made, gold claims placed in charge of agents, and everything made in readiness for their
journey to Nome.

It was the middle of September. The last boats were leaving Dawson, both for points on the
Upper Yukon and for St. Michael. People leaving Dawson by boat in the fall seldom linger beyond
the third or fourth week in September, for then the river may freeze at any time and they be
prisoners in the camp indefinitely.

The lower river steamer "Hannah" was about to push from the dock at Dawson when a friend introduced
me to the three sisters, and during the following days on board an acquaintance sprung up which
I much enjoyed. Little did we know that this friendship would afterwards be renewed nearly
two thousand miles away, and under circumstances vastly different from any with which we had
before become familiar.

Landing safely from the "Hannah" at St. Michael, a few days were spent by the sisters waiting
for stormy weather to subside, and they then sailed for Nome. Here they landed during the last
days of September, amid falling snow, bleak winds and boiling surf, upon the sands of the most
inhospitable beach in all that dreary Northland. No tree was to be seen. Not a rock under whose
friendly shelter one might hide from the storms. There was almost no lumber in the camp with
which to build houses, and no incoming steamers expected. A few rude shacks, tents and saloons,
with two or three companies' buildings--of these was the town composed. Many were rushing for
the steamers in waiting, determined only upon one thing--to get home to the States. Some carried
heavy sacks of gold, others went empty-handed. There was the summer's accumulation of filth
in the camp, too young as yet for cleanly conditions, and these brought their sure accompaniment--the
fever. Many suffered for weeks with it, and then died.

Again came the dread plague to the sisters. Scarcely had they unpacked their trunks or found
shelter for the winter when the younger of the sisters was stricken down. For days she raved
in delirium, and all feared she would die. Night and day they watched anxiously by her bedside.
Everything was done for her recovery and comfort that could be done in a new and rough camp
like the one at Nome; for all who knew the beautiful little sister loved her well.

Then came the time when all the long and heavy yellow hair had to be cut from the lovely head
in obedience to the doctor's orders. But the little sister lived. Their prayers were answered,
the worst was over, the danger past.

Then followed long and weary weeks of convalescing, while the winter storms raged outside the
little cabin, and the sun retreated farther from the Arctic Circle and Nome, but the sisters
thanked God, and again took courage.

Months after came the welcome springtime. With the earliest fine weather and revival of business
in the camp the sisters erected a store building and warehouse on the beach near by. Into the
latter they moved temporarily, hoping to rent the store to some of the numerous "tenderfeet"
sure to arrive on the first passenger steamers.

It was here I found the sisters on my arrival at Nome from San Francisco in June, 1900. Little
sister was well and strong again, growing a fresh crop of roses and lilies on her cheeks, and
a new head covering of lovely, wavy yellow hair. On her lips she wore the same sweet, old smiles,
however, and I knew her well by these. Since her recovery from the fever the hands of the sisters
had not been idle, and they had become expert at sewing furs. This had kept them busy as bees
all winter, and many were the caps, coats, mittens and capes made by their industrious fingers,
which brought them a good income, while their rooms were always the rendezvous of friends than
which a jollier lot could not be discovered.

Of the good influence going out through the rough mining camp during the long and dreary winter
from the home of these sweet and Christian women, no account has probably ever been kept, except
by the recording angel, who never forgets.

The day after we landed at Nome I secured work. Not, however, to begin immediately, which pleased
me well, as I should then have a little time to look for father, inspect the camp, study conditions
and take notes and kodak views.

"Can you cook for a gang of men?" asked Mr. A. kindly smiling down at me when I had stopped
him on the street and asked for work in his camp for the English girl and myself, as we wished
to be together.

"Indeed, I can. I will do my very best, Mr. A., and I feel sure we can please you. My friend
is an extra good cook, as you will discover if you give us work. Will you try us?"

"I will," he replied.

"At what wages, please?"

"Five dollars per day, each, with board," promptly answered the gentleman whose two gold claims
on famous Anvil Creek made him one of the richest men in Alaska.

So it was settled. Claim number nine, Anvil, was about seven miles from Nome, and one of the
most noted claims in the district. Mr. A., a former Swedish missionary at Golovin Bay, had,
with his doctor brother, voyaged to Nome on the "St. Paul" when we did, so we already had a
slight acquaintance with both gentlemen and were pleased to get the work.

Anvil Creek claims had been worked the summer before. Gold had first been discovered in the
fall of 1898 by Mr. Hultberg, a Swedish missionary, who learned of the precious metal around
Nome from the Eskimos. His mission was stationed at Golovin Bay, and he notified the Swedes,
Brynteson, Hagalin, Lindbloom and Linderberg, who in turn saw G. W. Price and induced him to
go with them, as he was the only one there experienced in mining. Price was on his way to Kodiak
over the ice by dog-team en route to California, as the representative of C. D. Lane, the San
Francisco mining man and millionaire.

The most of Anvil Creek was staked by this party before they returned to the mines at Council
City, fifty miles up Fish River from Golovin Bay.

"On July second, 1899, a second cleanup was made on number one above Discovery Claim, Anvil
Creek, the property of J. Linderberg. The result of four men shovelling out of the creek bed
from a cut five feet to bedrock for twenty hours amounted to fourteen thousand dollars in gold
dust. The men shovelled all the gravel from the moss down to bedrock into the sluice box as
it was all pay gravel. The owner refused five hundred thousand dollars for the property without
considering the offer."

Tierney is authority for the statement that this claim produced four hundred thousand dollars
that season.

From this time the discoverers were known by the sobriquet of the "Lucky Swedes," for Anvil
Creek was all good, there being no really "poor dirt" in it, and number nine, above Discovery
Claim, proved itself, the first summer, also a banner winner.

It was here that we expected to work, as soon as supplies could be hauled to the claim, the
monotony of bread making and dish washing to be varied by the new and strange sights on an
enormously rich gold claim not far from the Arctic Circle.

Everywhere around us were carpenter's hammers in operation, and tents were rapidly going up.
We found great difficulty in reserving ground space enough for another tent, as others found
the Sandspit as desirable for tenting as we did, and elbowed us closely. Along the river's
edge and the beach near by many were digging and panning in the sands searching for "colors."
Dog-teams were hauling freight and baggage, with their swearing and perspiring drivers at their
heels, and while the big black-snake whips flourished in air above the dogs or upon their straining
backs, the tongues of the faithful brutes hung from their mouths, and their wide open eyes
looked appealingly at bystanders. My heart ached for the animals, but there were no humane
societies in Alaska.

About five o'clock on Sunday afternoon it began to snow. This was the first June snowstorm
I had ever seen. Our little tent leaked badly, as it had been hastily pitched, and the snow
melted as it fell. Small rivers of water were soon dropping upon our heads. Rain coats, oil
cloth, and opened umbrellas were utilized to protect the clothing and the bedding.

An hour of this experience would have been enough for one time, but troubles seldom come singly,
and so the wind began to blow. Donning her rain coat and rubbers the English girl did her best
to tighten ropes and make the tent taut, for madam's son had not returned from town. Presently,
to our great joy, we saw him coming with a loaded dog-team of freight, and best of all, with
a man friend to assist him, whose strong arms and broad shoulders were well fitted to tent
pitching. Hastily the cart was unloaded and the large canvas tent unrolled and laid upon the
sand. Stakes were driven, poles adjusted, ropes stretched with much straining, as the wind
whistled more vigorously, and snow still fell; and the two men, both wet and cold, huddled
into the little tent for a cup of hot tea which was waiting.

Then strong hands opened more boxes and a large oil stove, carpets, rugs and many other necessary
things were hustled into the new tent, as well as trunks, bedding, and the contents of the
small tent, with the exception of canned goods and such things as water would not injure. The
sands were clean but wet, and if we were thankful for a stout canvas cover over our heads we
would have also been glad of a dry place under foot. However, carpets and rugs were spread
down, stoves lighted, and the tent door flap fastened as securely as possible.

As well as we could we arranged all for the night, but we expected to sleep little, for the
storm was now fearful. Rain, snow and hail, each came down by turns, accompanied by a high
wind which drove the surf in roaring rage upon the beach. How thankful we were that we had
chosen this spot instead of one directly in reach of the great rollers with their mist and
spray; though we had the roar and boom of the surf in our ears continually. Sometimes it seemed
that the wind had lulled, and then with increased violence it again screamed above our heads,
threatening us each moment with disaster.

At midnight a supper of hot macaroni, cocoa, bread, butter and cheese, with canned meat and
jam, was heartily eaten by all, including the visiting friend from Sitka who had assisted.
A low box was used for a table and we all sat upon the mats, eating from tin cups and plates
with the keenest appetites.

The weather was now awful. The storm had increased until it seemed each moment that the tent
would be torn from its fastenings, and we be left without any protection whatever. The ropes
and stakes had frequently to be looked after and made stronger. The snow had turned to rain,
which beat heavily upon the stout canvas resisting well the water without leaking.

By one o'clock the wind showed signs of abating, and we were so much in need of sleep, that,
all dressed as we were, we rolled ourselves in our blankets and dozed on the rugs close to
the oil stoves. For an hour I lay uneasily dreaming, or listening to the royal cannonading
of the heavy surf upon the beach. From my diary I quote the following extract:

"Monday, four in the morning, June eighteenth, 1900.--It is four in the morning and we are
sitting around the oil stoves in the middle of the tent. We have just had hot cocoa and crackers.
The surf still booms, but it does not rain, and the wind has died down. We are better off than
many people. Tomorrow we will put up the other tent and get more settled. We are thankful not
to be on the sea beach, where so many are camped. A. wishes herself home again. People around
our tent all night were talking, moving, afraid of the storm, but the big ships are still here
and they would put out to sea if it were necessary for their safety. They say we have smallpox
in town from the steamer 'Ohio,' and yesterday Mrs. H., who came up on the 'St. Paul,' was
reported to be dying from pneumonia. The nurse, Mrs. Judge R.'s friend, is caring for her.
Judge R. and wife are still in Mrs. M.'s shack near the barracks. It has been daylight all
night. I hope to hear from father soon, and get my freight. My friends here have all theirs.
The two men are smoking and talking while I write, and the Eskimo dogs not far away are howling
in their usual interesting nightly manner. I will now try to get a little more sleep."

We had heard much of beach mining at Nome, but saw little of it. Stories were told of men who,
in the summer of 1899, had taken hundreds of dollars in gold dust from the beach sands by the
crudest methods, and thousands of men were now flocking into the camp for the purpose of doing
beach mining. They were sadly disappointed. Not, however, because there was no gold in the
beach sands, but because it was so infinitesimally tiny that they had no means of securing
it. No hand rocker, copper plate, nor amalgam had been used with success, neither did any of
the myriads of prospective miners bring anything with them which promised better results. Great
heaps of machinery called by hopeful promoters "gold dredgers" were being daily dumped upon
the beach from the ships, signboards were covered with pictures of things similar, while the
papers continually bloomed with advertisements of machines, which, if speedily secured by the
miners, would, according to the imaginative advertiser, soon cause all to literally roll in riches.

One flaming dodger ran in large letters thus: "Calling millions from the vasty deep. A fortune
in one hundred days. Our dredger will work three thousand yards of sand in heavy surf at Cape
Nome. It will take out twenty-four thousand dollars in a day. You can make more money with
us than by taking flyers in wild-cat oil schemes, etc." The poster was illustrated by a huge
machine gotten up on the centipede plan; at least, it resembled that hated insect from having
attached to its frame two sets of wheels of different sizes along the sides like the legs of
a centipede, but with a steam boiler for a head, and a big pipe for a throat from which the
salt water was disgorged to wash out this immense amount of sand and give the gold to the miner.
It did not save the gold.

Thousands of dollars of good, hard-earned money were dumped upon the beach in the shape of
heavy machines of different kinds, which were worse than useless, and only brought bitter disappointment
to their owners. Men had stripped the beach the summer before of all coarse gold which had,
perhaps, been ages in washing up from the ocean's bed, or down the creeks from the hills, and
only the fine, or "flour gold," as it was called, remained.

By the newcomers men were cursed for spreading abroad tales of beach mining of the year before,
but this was unjust, for conditions were not the same. The waters bringing the gold to the
beach could not, in one season, replenish and leave the sands as rich as they had been after
long years, perhaps ages of action, and blame could not rightly be attached to any one. Almost
without exception, the men who did the cursing were the men who had never been hard workers,
and did not intend to be, and so, after becoming satisfied that the nuggets were not there
to be simply picked up and pocketed, they turned, looked backward, and went home. It was well
for the new camp that they did.

There was also much trouble over real estate. Land was very high in price. Some Swedes, who,
the year before, had paid seven hundred dollars for a town lot three hundred by fifty feet
in size, now sold one-half of it for ten thousand dollars. It is small wonder, then, where
"possession is nine points of the law" that men who rightfully claimed ground were ready to
fight to keep it, and those who were wrongfully in possession many times stood guard with firearms.

In pitching our tents upon the sandy beach, especially after gaining permission of the old
captain who told us we would be in the street if ever a street should be opened through on
the Sandspit, but that was not likely, and he had given us his full and free consent to our
camping temporarily there next his lots, we expected to have no trouble. Here we miscalculated.
Though the captain was kind and reasonable, he had a partner who was just the reverse, and
this person gave us infinite trouble.

Scarcely had our first load of baggage been put upon the ground when he began to tramp fussily
about at all times of day and night. After our stakes were driven he would come quietly in
the night and pull them up, so we would find our canvas flapping in the morning breeze when
we waked. Or, after we had retired for the night, he would come with some other, stand within
hearing distance, and threaten us if we did not move away.

One morning, upon rising, we found that he had moved a long carpenter's bench directly upon
the spot next madam's tent, which I was trying to reserve for my own tent as soon as I succeeded
in getting my things from the steamer. This disappointed me much, but I said nothing; and when
my tent finally came I pitched it on the other side, with my door directly opposite hers and
only six feet from her entrance.

As to appearance this old man was a jolly sight. He wore long and tangled hair which had once
been curly, but now hung in unkempt and dirty shreds upon his shoulders, while his hat was
an antiquated relic of a former life in the States. A pair of old trousers generally hung by
one suspender over a colored shirt, which, the summer before, possibly, had had a wash-tub
experience, but not later; his footwear was altogether unmentionable. He was called well-to-do,
and there was no necessity for him to cut such an abominable figure, so he soon became a by-word,
and was designated as "sour dough." At all events, he was sour enough, and kept up a continual
siege of torment until he received a temporary quietus.

We three women were sitting in the tent one morning when there came a voice at the door. Going
forward to enquire what was wanted, a man said gruffly, thrusting a piece of paper into my hand.

"A notice from the chief of police."

"For what?" I inquired.

"For you, to vacate these premises without delay."

"Indeed! Are they to open a street? Will the other campers about here move also?" I asked.

"I don't know. My orders are that you shall move immediately. See that you do it," said the
man rudely.

While holding the paper in my hands I glanced over it hastily, and saw the marks of a spurious
document. It was poorly constructed, and bore no official signs. I recognized it as a counterfeit.

"We have had permission from captain S., one of the aldermen, to put our tents here, and we
shall stay unless he orders us away," said I stoutly.

"You have permission from captain S.?" he asked in surprise.

"Yes, sir, from captain S. himself, and you can say to the chief of police that we shall stay
here until the captain orders us to leave," saying which I stepped back into the tent.

The man retreated, muttering to himself as he went, for he was utterly routed, and never returned;
neither did we hear any more for some time about moving our tents. It was as I suspected. Mr.
Sourdough had thought to frighten us away, and the order from the chief of police was utterly
bogus.

Some time afterward, when madam attempted to put a floor into her tent, "Sourdough" again put
in an appearance. He threatened, but she held out, when the obstinate and perverse old man
trotted off down town and secured an officer and four soldiers to come and put her off. The
officer looked the ground over, inquired if there was room for teams to pass if necessary,
and seeing her tent in line with many others, he turned to the old man and said:

"This tent takes up no more of the street than the others. This lady has as much right to be
here as any one else. What is the matter with you? Let the women alone," and he and his soldiers
marched away.

Mr. Sourdough tore his hair. He was wild with anger. The floor of madam's tent went down and
stayed.

Each day I was in the habit of giving my Swedish friends a call, and found them finally ready
to set up their restaurant tent. A large floor was laid on Second street near the post-office,
the large canvas stretched over the frame, tables and seats provided, a corner partitioned
off for a kitchen, dishes placed upon shelves, and they began serving meals. At this juncture
I happened in one day just before noon and found them rushed with work and unable to fill their
meal orders for lack of help. Mary was peeling potatoes in haste, while trying to do other
things at the same time, and Ricka and Alma were flying like bees.

"Let me peel those potatoes for you," said I, taking the knife from Mary's hand; and when she
demurred, I told her I really had nothing to do, and would be glad to assist.

When the potatoes were peeled, dishes were heaped up to be cleaned, and I quickly washed them,
feeling that I was of some service, and not heeding the surprised looks of a few acquaintances
who chanced to catch a glimpse of me at work in the kitchen through the door.

This I did each day, coming over after I had eaten my breakfast, and rolling up my sleeves
to my elbows, drove them deep into the dish pan and hot water.

Many were the jolly times we now had. How the jokes flew past each other over the puddings,
and the crisp pies needed almost no other seasoning. How cheerfully "the boys" brought wood
and water and counted it reward enough if they only received a smile from little Alma. Many
a man was glad enough, too, to render such service for a meal or lunch of hot coffee and doughnuts,
especially such good, big, motherly ones as Mary made, and there was no lack of men helpers.
How the coffee steamed, the hot bread and meats smoked, and the soup odors tantalized the olfactories
of hundreds of "tenderfeet" with their lusty Alaska appetites, which were increased by an open
air life such as all in those days were living.

When at last we were summoned to our work, on Number Nine, the Swedish women pressed my hand
cordially, leaving a good-sized bill in it at the same time, saying: "When you get through
on Number Nine come back to us; we need you." I thanked them gratefully and said good-bye.

The English girl and myself were soon settled in our little tent with its clean new floor on
the hillside of claim Number Nine. No tree was to be seen on the long, rolling hills, and only
an occasional boulder on some summit like Anvil Peak, perched as a sentinel above us. A few
wild flowers bloomed on the tundra, and the waters of the little stream gurgled over the soft
slate pebbles that strewed its course; but the season so far was a dry one, and more water
was needed before much could be done at sluicing. Miners were not happy at the prospect of
a dry season, which meant a stoppage of all mining operations, and eagerly scanned the heavens
for rain indications. A small force of men were at work night and day. On Thursday, July twelfth,
eleven hundred dollars in gold dust was taken from the sluice boxes in the creek, and two days
afterwards twelve thousand dollars, with which the owner of the claim was much dissatisfied,
calling them small clean-ups.

A few hundred feet up stream, on Number Ten, the machinery of C. D. Lane whirred constantly.
On the upper end of Number Nine a small new machine called a separator was put in by some men
from New York who had taken a lay on the claim; but this scheme was not successful.

Seeing men at work prospecting along the "benches," as the banks of a stream or hillsides are
called by miners, and having a woman's proverbial curiosity, after my work was done I climbed
the hill to investigate. The prospectors had left after digging a hole about six feet deep
and four square, evidently having satisfied themselves as to what the ground contained. Into
this hole I descended to feel of the cold, wet earth and inspect the walls.

The miners had reached the frost line and gone, taking with them samples of pretty white quartz
rock, as much of the debris at the bottom of the hole plainly showed, but whether it contained
gold I knew not. As yet I was a tenderfoot; but something satisfactory was without doubt found
here and in the vicinity, as quartz claims were staked over the placer claims the whole length
of Anvil Creek that summer.

While rambling about in search of flowers during our afternoon rests, we found many interesting
spots. To the northwest, over the high, bare ridge, lay Snow Gulch, from which fabulous sums
had the summer before been taken, the blue and winding waters of famous Glacier Creek lying
just beyond. Walking through the dry, deep tundra over the hills was warm, hard work, though
we wore short skirts and high, stout boots, and womanlike, we were always filled to the brim
with questions and ready to rest if we chanced to meet any one, which was not often.

Wherever we went, and whatever the hour, we met with no incivility. Hats were lifted, and men
rested a moment upon their shovels to look after us as we passed, while frequently some rough
miner swallowed the lump in his throat or wiped a tear, as he thought of his wife, daughter
or sweetheart far away. We were the only women in the mines for miles around, but felt no fear
whatever, and indeed we were as safe there as at home, and there was no occasion for anxiety.

Life was extremely interesting. Our work was not hard the first few weeks; after that the force
of men was increased. Rich pans of dirt (two shovels full to a pan) were daily being brought
to light. One pan contained seventy-two dollars and seventy-five cents, one eighty-three dollars
and thirty-five cents. Big, fat nuggets already melted into wondrous shapes, but iron rusted,
as all Anvil Creek gold is, for some reason, was discovered each day. One nugget tipped the
scales at thirty-nine dollars, one at twenty dollars, and one at fifty dollars, with many others
of like value.

Wednesday, August eighth, the following entry was made in my diary: "Today has been the banner
day for gold dust. The night's cleanup of twelve hours' work was a big one--three pans full
of gold. Later--Still more yet. A cleanup of nine thousand dollars and three of the largest
nuggets I ever saw has just been made this evening. Two of the nuggets were long and flat,
as large as a tree-toad, and much the shape of one. The men took the first load of gold dust
to town--seventy-five pounds--but the bank was closed before they could get the remainder there.
The foreman says they are prepared to keep it here safely over night, however, and I believe
they are, judging by the big protuberances on their hip pockets."

CHAPTER XI.

LIFE IN A MINING CAMP.

As the rains came to facilitate the sluicing, more men were added to the force shovelling in
the creeks, and this made our work heavier. An exceedingly cranky foreigner, as head cook,
presided over the big coal range in the mess-house, and we women "played second fiddle," so
to speak. However, we all had enough hard work, as a midnight supper for the second force had
to be prepared and regularly served, and at this we labored alternately.

Strange to relate, the men at the long tables soon began to exhibit a very great partiality
for the dishes prepared by the English girl and myself, to the end that the foreign fellow's
black eyes snapped with anger, and he swore deeply under his breath.

"He vill eat vat I gif heem. He moose eat it ven he hoongry, else he starve himsel'. I care
not he no like it, he get nothing other!" the angry man would exclaim, as the untouched plates
of the men were scraped into the waste box. He would then, fearing that we would cook some
dish more palatable to the miners, hide the best food, or forbid us to use certain ingredients
as we wished.

Of the culinary stores provided there never could be a complaint. Everything that money could
buy in the way of fresh meat, potatoes, onions, canned and dried fruits and vegetables, flour,
corn and oatmeals, were stacked up in the greatest profusion. From canned oysters, clams and
French sardines, to fine cocoa and cream, all was here found in quantities, after being hauled
in a wagon behind powerful horses over the seven miles of heavy roads from Nome. By the time
the goods reached camp they were almost worth their weight in gold, but one might have supposed
them dirt cheap, for we, as hungry miners and cooks, were never limited.

Week after week the patient animals and their driver were kept measuring the distance between
the city and the claim, even though the wet tundra in low places grew sodden and boggy, and
the wheels repeatedly sank to the hubs. At times more horses were attached to haul them out
of some hole, or if these were not at hand, certain heavy cases were dumped off until the reeking,
straining brutes had successfully extricated the load. Covered with mud and sweat, his high-topped
rubber boots each weighing a number of pounds, and his stomach too empty to allow of conversation,
after a long, hard day's work, the driver of this team would fling himself upon one of the
benches alongside our table and say:

"Yes, I'm ready to eat anything. Been caved in for two hours."

This young man, as well as the night foreman, was a cousin of Mr. A., both farmer boys, honest,
kind and true. No oaths fell from their lips, and no language was used which their own mothers
would ever blush to hear.

The second of these, the foreman, was dressed also in great rubber boots, dark blue sweater,
and broad-brimmed felt hat, with a quick eye and ear for all around him, though he was a man
of few words, which he weighed well before using. His hip pocket always contained a loaded
revolver, and he was obliged to sleep days after being on duty nights.

To eyes so unaccustomed as ours to the sight, how strange it all looked at midnight. From the
big tent door which faced south and towards Nome City we could see the blue waters of Behring
Sea away in the distance. Great ships lying there at anchor, lately arrived from the outside
world or just about to leave, laden with treasure, at this long range looked like mere dots
on the horizon. Between them and us there straggled over the beach in a westerly direction,
a confused group of objects we well knew to be the famous and fast growing camp on the yellow
sands. To our right, as well as our left, rolled the softly undulating hills, glowing in tender
tints of purples and greys, or, if the moon hung low above our heads, there were warmer and
lighter shades which were doubly entrancing.

Accompanying the low moon twinkled the silver stars with their olden time coyness of expression.
Little birds, not knowing when to sleep in the endless daylight, hopped among the dewy wild
flowers of the tundra, calling to their mates or nestlings, twittering a song appropriate to
the time and place because entirely unfamiliar.

No other sound was to be heard except the picks of the miners at work in the stream. No word
was spoken unless the foreman gave some order. Those sleeping in nearby tents must not be wakened,
and besides the men at the shovels and picks did no loitering. There were the long sluice boxes
to be filled with what was once the creek bed, from which the water was now turned in another
direction to await the morning's cleanup of gold.

At that time the water would be conducted into the long boxes to wash away the dirt and gravel,
leaving the heavier gold in the bottom. Either Mr. A. or his brother, with the foreman, attended
to cleaning up the gold. When all the dirt and gravel, or rock, had been washed out of the
sluices, a whisk broom was used to brush the gold into a corner of the box, a dustpan conveyed
it to broad-mouthed gold pans close at hand, and these were carried into the kitchen.

Here the pans were placed upon the iron range, big mush spoons were utilized for stirring,
and the precious metal was well dried before being weighed. As soon as possible afterward it
was taken to the Bank of Nome. A tall, black horse was purchased for this purpose alone, and
after a few such trips the intelligent creature most reluctantly approached the office where
the gold was kept, having learned of the grievous burden he would have to bear. Sometimes he
would snort, throw himself and pull back, and in every way show his unwillingness to proceed.

But no shirk was allowed here. The horse was led close to the steps of the office tent, and
a gunny sack tied in the middle brought out by two men and laid over the back of the unwilling
beast. A rain coat or blanket was flung over the sack, and the man at the halter started for
town, leading the horse, which walked slowly and resignedly after being compelled to go.

A second man, well armed with revolvers like the first, always accompanied the pair, and when
the three had returned to the claim another cleanup awaited them. Enormous sums of money were
taken from this claim while we were there, averaging ten thousand to twenty thousand dollars
per day. Seventy men worked for a time when the water was at its best, part of that number
on the day force and part at night.

In August the west bank of the creek was accidentally pricked and found to be far richer than
the bed of the stream. Nuggets worth many dollars were continually unearthed, the largest one
that summer amounting to ninety dollars. The richest pans contained sixty-four dollars, seventy-two
dollars and seventy-five cents and eighty-four dollars, with others ranging all the way below.

From a bench claim next to Number Eleven on this creek, and only one-fourth of a mile above
us, great heaps of gold were taken from the ground, no pan carrying less, it was said, than
five hundred dollars.

From seventy men to wait upon when the stream was at high water mark, to twenty-five when it
was lower, at any time our lot was hard. We worked with chapped, bleeding hands and aching
backs. We worked until our tired limbs sometimes refused to carry us further. By the middle
of August the nights began to grow dark at nine o'clock, and a hold-up or two took place on
the creek. The weather was rainy and cold, with frosty nights between, and as we were all in
tents, and these sometimes leaked, which did not improve the head cook's temper and he grew
almost abusive; we retired, went to town, and left him alone to meditate. Here he hastily and
angrily for a few days longer tossed up nondescript messes for the men, which none could eat,
and was then discharged in disgrace.

In all there were fifteen placer claims staked on Anvil. Some of these were scarcely touched
that summer, but from those operated fully two million five hundred thousand dollars were taken
in three months.

During the six weeks we had spent at Number Nine, many improvements had been made along the
route and in Nome. Where before we had traveled seven miles we now walked only two, riding
on the new narrow gauge railroad, spoken of there as Mr. Lane's, the remainder of the way.

At Discovery Claim, instead of a few straggling tents, there were eating houses, saloons, store-houses,
a ticket and post-office, and the nucleus of a town. The cars we boarded were open, flat cars,
with seats along the sides, to be sure, but they were crowded at one dollar per head to Nome.
After waiting a little time for a start, the whistle blew shrilly, the conductor shouted "all
aboard!" and we trundled along behind a smoky, sturdy engine in almost civilized style.

This was the first railroad in Alaska with the exception of the White Pass and Yukon road,
and will eventually extend to the southern coast and Iliamna.

Next morning, after spending the night on the Sandspit with madam, I called, bright and early,
upon my Swedish friends in their restaurant.

"Good morning, Mrs. Sullivan!" cried Mary in a hearty voice, as she stirred the steaming mush
on the kitchen range.

"Good morning!" said Ricka more quietly, but with a pleasant, welcoming smile. "Did you come
from Number Nine?"

"Good morning!" from Alma, as she poured a cup of hot coffee for a waiting customer. "Do you
want to help us? We have plenty of work."

"That's what I came for," said I, laying aside my hat and coat. "Will you lend me an apron
till I get mine?" glancing toward the kitchen sink full of unwashed dishes, and the cupboard
shelves quite demoralized.

"I'll lend you six if you will only help us. We are so busy serving meals we cannot take time
to get settled," said Mary. "Yes, we moved from the tent last week," she said in reply to my
question.

"We like this much better. The tent leaked during the hard rains, and flapped so much in the
wind that we were afraid it would come down upon our heads. We have had this kitchen built
on, and shall keep open till the last boats are gone for the winter. That will be two months
longer, likely," and Mary talked on as she dished up the griddle cakes and the two others waited
upon the tables.

I felt quite happy to have found work so soon, and that too among friends, and without any
particular responsibility attached to the position. I would dignify my labor, doing it well
and acceptably, carrying always a sunny face and pleasing mood. The work was of a kind despised
by hundreds of women, who, after landing at Nome, had not found agreeable and genteel situations,
and so had gone back home, or, in some cases, done even worse.

To be sure, the pay was not large, the work tiresome, and I would be snubbed by many persons,
but I had not come to Alaska for my health. That was excellent. Then I had good food in sufficient
quantities, which was always a thing to be considered in that country. I had a purpose in view
which I never lost. I would get some gold claims.

The Swedish people were brave and fearless, as well as patient and strong. I had many acquaintances
among them already. I felt they were good people to stay with, and they were congenial. To
be sure, a few spoke English with an accent, and there were no small, white hands among them;
but if the hearts and lives were clean and true, and so far as I could judge they were so,
I was satisfied.

The missionaries from Golovin, including the young lady who had come up on the "St. Paul,"
had, with my three friends here, called at Number Nine at different times during the six weeks
of our stay there. Already a plan had been considerably discussed which would take a party
of us to Golovin to winter, either in the Swedish mission or near it, and of all things in
mind so far this prospect most pleased me.

We would then be fifty miles from the rich Council City mines on the Fish River Creeks, and
only half that distance from the Topkok diggings, of which we now heard considerable. Every
creek within many miles around Nome was entirely staked, but in the vicinity of Golovin we
might hope to secure claims, or, at least, be in a good position to learn of new gold strikes
if any were made during the coming winter.

"But we will keep a roadhouse if we go there," said Alma, "and be making some money. I am sure
there will be many people traveling through Golovin all winter, and we can make a few dollars
that way as well as any one else. Then we will not forget how to cook," and the young woman,
with eyes always open to the main chance for "making money," as she called it, laughed at the
bare possibility of such a thing.

"We might do that and help in the mission, too, there are so many of us. I would like to work
in the mission for a change, I think," said Ricka, who was very religiously inclined and quiet
generally.

"What would you like to do, Mrs. Sullivan?" asked Mary. "You say so little, and we talk so
much. I want to know what you think."

"Well, there are three of you to talk, and I am only one," said I, laughing, as I placed the
cups and saucers, all clean and shining, on the cupboard shelves. "I should like the mission
plan better than anything, for I have had some experience in mission work; but if they do not
need us there, then I should like the roadhouse well enough, though I think if eight or ten
of us, each having enough supplies for himself for the winter, should form a club and live
under one roof, we could do so more cheaply and comfortably than any other way, and have a
real jolly, good time in the bargain. These young men, many of them, are intending to winter
here somewhere, and all hate to cook for themselves, I know, while they would gladly get the
wood, water, and shovel snow, if we did the cooking and housework. None need to work hard,
and if a rich gold strike were reported, somebody might want to go and do some staking. In
that way we might get some gold claims," I reasoned, while all three listened during a lull
in the work.

"That's what we all came to Alaska for--gold claims. I want three," remarked Alma with complacency,
"and besides, there is plenty of driftwood at Golovin on the beach which we could have for
nothing, and save buying coal at three dollars a sack as we do here," glancing at the scuttle
near the range reproachfully, as if the poor, inanimate thing was to blame for prices.

Little Alma was keen at a bargain. There was nothing slow about the grey matter in her cranium.
If there was buying to do, or a commodity to sell, Alma was the one of the restaurant firm
to do it, enjoying well the bargaining, where she was seldom outwitted.

So in the intervals between meals, or at night when the day's work was done, we discussed our
plans outside the kitchen door next the sea beach, watching the shipping in the roadstead,
admiring the lovely sky tints left by the setting sun, or gazing at the softly rolling breakers
under a silver-bowed moon.

If we had plenty of hard work, with its not altogether desirable phases, we also enjoyed much
beside the novelty. Some one we knew was always in from the creeks, principally Anvil, to bring
latest news, as well as to collect the same, and the kitchen as well as the dining-room, was
the constant rendezvous of friends of one or all of us. Those prospecting among the hills or
on the beach at some distance from town came in often for supplies and to visit the post-office,
giving the "Star" a call for hot coffee, if not a supper, before leaving. Jokes and stories
flew about over the tables, and interesting incidents were always occurring. Good humor and
good cheer flowed on every side along with the cordial greeting, and tea and coffee, though
nothing stronger in the way of drinks was ever placed upon the tables.

In the kitchen we did not lack voluntary assistants when work pushed, or there was what we
called "a rush." One young man would fill the water buckets at a neighboring hydrant, another
would bring in coal, and some other would carry away refuse.

Happy, indeed, were the great numbers of dogs fed from the "Star" kitchen. No beggar was ever
turned away. No homeless and discouraged soul, whether man or woman, sober or drunken, was
allowed to leave as forlorn as he entered. Men often sat down at the tables, who, when filled
with good food and hot drink, in a warm and comfortable room fell asleep from the effects of
previous stimulants and sank to the floor. When this happened some strong and helpful arm assisted
such a one with friendly advice, to the street.

The two sisters were now our nearest neighbors, the third and married one having gone with
her husband to live in a new cottage of their own in another part of the town. The eldest of
the two had kindly offered me lodging in the back part of their store building of which our
restaurant rooms were a half, and from which we were only separated by a board partition. This
was a temporary arrangement until I could find something that suited me close at hand, as I
chose to be near my work on account of going to my room in the evening after my duties were
done. The sisters themselves still lived in their large warehouse a few feet back from the
store, and between it and the surf which rolled ceaselessly upon the sands.

I was now more comfortably lodged than since I had landed at Nome. My canvas cot, placed in
the back of the store, vacant except for a few rolls of carpeting, matting and oil cloth on
sale by the sisters, stood not far from the large coal heater in which fire was kept during
the day, making the room warm and dry when I came in at night. Near the foot of my cot a good
window admitted light and sunshine, and a door opened upon a flight of six stairs into a tiny
square yard before one entered the warehouse, where lived the sisters. This latter building
was made of corrugated iron, on piles, with windows and a door in the south end looking directly
out upon the water only a few feet away, and was fitted cosily enough for the summer, but not
intended for anything further except storage purposes. A second door in the north end, opposite
the one in the store, and only separated from it by the little yard was the door generally
used. At this time lodgings without fire were worth dollars a night in crowded Nome, and one's
next neighbors might prove themselves anything but desirable.

Meanwhile we worked steadily. Many of the Anvil Creek mine owners and their men took meals
at the "Star" whenever in town. Some of their office employees came regularly. Hundreds were
"going outside" on boats, and all was bustle and excitement. At least twenty-five thousand
people had landed at Nome during the summer, and fully one-half of them had gone home discouraged.

On Sunday, September second, there came up a most terrible storm, which, for the velocity of
its gales, tremendous downfall of rain, terrific surf, accompanied by great loss of life, as
well as length of duration, had not been equalled for over twenty years. Never before was the
property loss so great on the Behring Sea coast.

By nine o'clock Sunday morning the large steamers at anchor had put far out to sea for safety.
The wind rose, the rain poured. The surf was growing more rough. At dinner time those who came
in reported the dead bodies of nine men picked up on the beach. They had attempted to land
from a steamer, and their small boat was swamped. One of the men drowned was the mate of the
vessel. For days the storm lasted and our work increased. It was not long before the continuous
rain had penetrated our little kitchen roof and walls, roughly built as they were of boards,
and from that on we worked in rubber boots and short skirts tucked still higher. With the storm
at its hardest, I donned a regular "sou'wester," or water proof hat, rather than stand with
the rain dripping upon my head, and a cape of the same material covered my shoulders.

People living in tents when the storm began--and there were thousands--had been washed out,
or been obliged to leave them, and could not get their own meals. The "Star" swarmed with hundreds
who had never been there before, as well as those in the habit of coming. Ten days passed.
Sometimes there would be a lull in the storm for a few hours and we hoped it was over, but
the surf ran high and could not return before the wind again lashed it into fury.

One midnight, when I was sleeping soundly after an unusually hard day's duties in the kitchen,
there came a hasty knock at my door.

"Let me in quick Mrs. Sullivan, the warehouse, we fear, is going. We must come in here. We
will bring some more of our things," and little sister dropped the armful of clothing she carried
and ran back for more.

Sure enough, as I looked, the water surged up under the warehouse to the foot of the steps.
When she returned with another load I offered to dress and assist them, but she said they would
only bring the clothing and bedding, and I better go back to bed.

Breathlessly the sisters worked for a time, until the tide prevented them from again entering
the warehouse, and they made their bed near me on the floor. When, after watching the waters,
they felt satisfied that they receded, they retired, weary and troubled, hoping that before
another high tide the storm would have subsided and the danger would be past.

By September twelfth the surf was the worst we had ever seen it, and Snake River had overflowed
its banks. Most of those on the Sandspit were obliged to flee for their lives. Hundreds were
homeless on the streets. The town's whole water-front was washed away. Tents not only went
down by hundreds, but buildings of every description were swept away and flung by the angry
surf high up on the sands.

Anchored lighters and barges were loosened from their moorings and came ashore, as did schooners
broken and disabled. Dead bodies were each day picked up on the beach, which was strewn with
wreckage.

One dark night, when the rain had ceased for a time to give place to a fearful gale which tossed
the maddened waters higher and higher, there appeared upon the horizon a dim, portentous shape.
At first it was only a form, indistinct and uncertain. As we watched longer, it gradually assumed
the semblance of a ship. Keen eyes soon discerned a huge, black hulk, of monstrous size when
riding the crest of the breakers, smaller and partially lost to sight when buried at intervals
in the trough of the sea.

A ship was drifting helplessly, entirely at the mercy of the elements, and must soon be cast
upon the beach at our feet. Approaching swiftly as she was, in the heavy sea, as the violence
of the wind bore her onward, lights appeared as signals of distress, telling of souls on board
in fearful danger.

In dismay we watched the helpless, on-coming vessel. We were in direct line of her path as
she was now drifting. If by chance the mountain of water should, by an awful upheaval, rear
the wreck upon its crest at landing, we would be engulfed in a moment of time. No power could
save the buildings which would be instantly shivered to heaps of floating debris.

Should we flee for our lives? Or would the wind, quickly, by some miracle, change its course,
and thereby send the menacing vessel to one side of us or the other? Groups of patrolmen and
soldiers everywhere watched with anxious eyes, and friends stood with us to encourage and assist
if needed.

God alone could avert the awful, impending disaster. He could do so, and did.

When only a few hundred feet from shore, the huge black mass, rearing and tossing like a thing
of life in the raging sea, swerved to the west by a sudden veer of the wind, and then, amid
the roar of breakers angry to ferocity, she, with a boom as of cannon in battle, plunged into
the sands of the beach only a hundred and fifty feet away.

The earth trembled. With one long, quivering motion, like some dumb brute in its death struggle,
the ship settled, its great timbers parting as it did so, and the floods pouring clean over
its decks. Then began the work of rescuing those on board, which was finally, after many hours,
successfully accomplished.

CHAPTER XII.

BAR-ROOM DISTURBANCES.

"Girls, O girls!" shouted Mary from the kitchen door in order to be heard above the waters,
"Do come inside!" Then, as we answered her call and closed the door behind us, she said: "The
danger is over now, and you can't help those poor people in the wreck. There are plenty of
men to do that. See! it is nearly midnight, and we shall have another hard day's work tomorrow.
Go to bed like good children, do."

"How about yourself, ma?" said Ricka, carrying out the farce of mother and children as we often
did, Mary being the eldest of the four.

"I'm going too, as soon as I get this pancake batter made, for I'm dead tired. We will hear
the particulars of the wreck at breakfast," replied Mary.

"Poor things! How I pity them. What an awful experience for women if there were any on board,"
said sympathetic Ricka, and I left them talking it over, to roll into my cot, weary from twelve
hours of hard work and excitement.

No anxiety, and no thundering of the breakers could now keep me awake, and for hours I slept
heavily.

Suddenly I was wide awake. No dream or unusual sound had roused me. Some new danger must be
impending. My pulses throbbed. The clock at the head of my cot ticked regularly, and its hands
pointed to four. The sisters slept peacefully side by side. The whole town seemed resting after
the intense and continued anxiety caused by the storm, and I wondered why I had wakened.

However, something impelled me to get up, and, rising quietly from my cot in order not to arouse
the others, I went to the south window and peered out.

My heart fairly stood still.

The waters were upon us! They had already covered the lower steps at the door not six feet
from the cot on which I had slept. I stood motionless. If I knew that the waters were receding,
I would go quietly to bed, allowing the others to sleep an hour longer; but if they were rising
there was no time to lose. None could reckon on the tides now, for all previous records had
been recently broken. I would wait and watch a few minutes, I decided, and I wrapped a blanket
around me, for my teeth chattered, and I shivered.

How cruel the water looked as I watched it creep closer and closer. How quietly now it swept
at flood tide up through the piles under the warehouse, covering the little back yard and the
kitchen steps of the restaurant. With the cunning of a thief it was creeping upon us in the
darkness when we were asleep and helpless.

Would the resistless waters persist in our destruction? Where should we go in the storm if
obliged to fly for our lives?

Twenty minutes passed.

Another step was covered while I watched--the tide was rising.

Crossing the room now to where my friends lay sleeping, I touched little sister upon the shoulder.

"Wake up! Wake up! The tide is coming,--the water is almost at the door! I have been watching
it for twenty minutes, and I'm sure we ought to be dressed," said I, trying to keep my voice
steady so as neither to betray my fright nor startle them unnecessarily.

Springing from their bed they hurried to the window and looked out.

"I should say so!" exclaimed the younger lady in dismay.

"These treacherous waters will not give us up. They want us, and all we possess, and are literally
pursuing us, I believe," groaned Miss S., the older sister, struggling to get hastily into
her clothing. "But we must waken the girls," she said, rapping on the intervening wall, and
calling loudly for the three other women who still slept soundly from fatigue.

With that, we all dressed, and began to pack our belongings; I putting my rubber blanket upon
the floor and rolling my bedding in that. This I tied securely, and dragged to the street door,
packing my bags and trunk quickly for removal if necessary.

In the restaurant none knew exactly what to do. The water had covered the back steps, and the
spray was dashing against the kitchen door. Underneath, the little cellar, dug in the dry sand
weeks before, and used as a storing place for tents, chairs, vegetables and coal sacks, was
filled with water which now came within a foot of the floors. From sheer force of habit, Mary
began building a fire in the range, and I to pack the spoons, knives and forks in a basket
for removal. Ricka thought this a wise thing to do, but Alma remonstrated.

"The water will not come in. You need not be afraid. If it does, we will only run out into
the street, leaving everything. Let us get breakfast now, the people are coming in to eat,"
and this very matter-of-fact young woman began laying the tables for the morning meal. It was
six o'clock. The men soon began to pour into the dining room hungry, wet, and cold. Many had
been out all night assisting in the rescue work or patrolling the beach, inspecting each heap
of wreckage in search of dead bodies and valuables, for many among the missing were supposed
to have perished in the storm.

Three men engaged in rescuing the survivors of the big wreck of the night previous, had been
swept from the barge alongside, and gone down in the boiling surf. Searching parties were out
trying to locate a number of men who had started two days before, during a lull in the storm,
against the warnings of friends, for Topkok to the east. They were never again seen.

I had now to find other lodgings, for the sisters needed their room. Leaving my work for an
hour in the forenoon I tramped about in the mud looking everywhere within two blocks of the
"Star," for I did not wish to go further away.

After calling at a number of places, I was directed to a small hotel or lodging house across
the street from the "Star," and about one and a half blocks further east. A man and his wife
kept the house, which consisted of eating room and kitchen on the east side of the lower floor,
and a big bar-room or saloon on the west side. The second floor was divided by a long narrow
hall into two rows of small rooms for rent to lodgers. The woman showed me a little room with
one window on the west side.

"I wish to rent by the week, as I am expecting to leave town before long," said I, after telling
her my business, and where I was at work. "What rent do you charge?"

"Five dollars per week, unfurnished," said she.

I caught my breath. The room was about eight feet square, and as bare as my hand. Not even
a shade hung at the window. It was ceiled with boards around and overhead. I asked if she would
put up a window shade. She said she would when her husband returned, as she expected him in
a few days from Norton Sound.

After talking with the little woman she seemed to wish me to take the room, assuring me that
there were only quiet, decent people in the house, and the saloon below was closed each day
at midnight. There was a billiard table and piano in the bar-room; but no window shades, shutters
nor screens of any sort, she said. Her own room was next this one, and she was always there
after nine o'clock in the evening, so I need not feel timid.

Upon reflection, I took the room, and paid the rent. My things could not stand in the street,
and I must have a place in which to sleep at night. It was high and dry, and far enough away
from the surf, so that I need not fear being washed out. I would not be in my room during the
day, and it was only for a few weeks anyway. It suited my needs better than anything I could
find elsewhere, and as for furnishings, I could do without.

I went back to my work, and had my baggage and cot sent to the room. I could settle things
in a few minutes in the evening before retiring.

The surf still boomed upon the beach, and rain and mist continued all day, but without wind.
For hours the waters kept close to our floors, but did not quite reach them. Floating wreckage
washed up at our feet, and two lighters, loose from their moorings, lodged beside the warehouse
at the mercy of the surf. We were in constant fear that they would shove the warehouse off
the piles against our buildings, and that would be, without doubt, the finale.

In the meantime there was "a rush" indoors such as we never before had. Many carried hearts
saddened by the loss of friends or property. Some had not slept for days. At the tables, at
one time, sat two beggars, and a number of millionaires. Some who had reckoned themselves rich
a few days previous were now beggared. The great wreck of the night before was going rapidly
to pieces. With a mighty force, the still angry breakers dashed high over the decks of the
ship. Masts and rigging went down hourly, and ropes dangled in mid-air, while men unloading
coal and lumber worked like beavers at windlass and derrick, which creaked loudly above the
noise of the waters.

More and more was the ship dismantled. When the storm cleared, and the sun came out next day,
the scene was one of wondrous grandeur. Nothing more magnificent had I ever before beheld.
Great masses of water, mountain high, rolled continually landward, their snowy crests surmounted
by veils of mist and spray, delicate as the tracery on some frosted window pane. As the sun
lifted his head above the horizon, throwing his beams widely over all, each mist-veil was instantly
transformed into a thing of surpassing beauty. It could only be compared to strings of diamonds,
rubies and pearls. With a fairy's witchery, or a magician's spell, the whole face of the waters
was changed. Each wrecked craft along the shore, partially buried in sand, masts gone, keel
broken, and anchor dragged, with the surf breaking over all, was transformed under the brilliant
sunshine, until no painting could be more artistically beautiful. Under the fascination of
it all we forgot the anxiety, the labor, and suspense of the last days and weeks, and every
moment of interval between work we spent at our door next the beach, or after the falling of
the tide, further out upon the sands.

Many wrecks lay strewn along the beach. Schooners, barges, and tugs lay broken and helpless.
Untold quantities of debris, lumber, pieces of buildings, tents, boxes, and barrels, all testified
to the sad and tremendous havoc made by this great storm.

In my little room I rested quietly when my day's work was done. The landlady had taken down
an old black shawl I had pinned to the window, and hung a green cloth shade of ugly color,
and too wide by several inches. It was better than no shade, and I said nothing. For a bed
I had my own cot; for a washstand, a box. At the head of my cot stood two small boxes, one
above the other, and upon these I placed my clock, matches, pincushion, brush and combs, while
below were stowed away other little things. A few nails on the wall held my dresses, but my
trunk remained packed. A candle, tin wash basin, and bucket completed my room furnishings,
simple and homely enough to satisfy the asceticism of a cloistered nun or monk.

On September twenty-seventh there fell the first snow of the season. A little had for days
been lying upon the hilltops of Anvil, but none nearer. The only fire in my room was an oil
lamp upon which I heated water upon going home at night; but with plenty of blankets and wool
clothing I was comfortable with the window open.

One evening while going to my room I heard some one singing in the bar-room. I hurried up the
stairs on the outside of the building, which was the only way of entrance to the second floor,
and entered my room. Depositing my lighted lantern upon the floor, I listened. The singing
continued. It was a youthful woman's voice. I would see for myself. Going quietly out the door,
and down part way to a window crossed by the stairs, I sat down upon a step and looked into
the room below. It was the big bar-room. It was pleasant and warm, with lights and fire. Upon
the bright green cloth of the billiard table lay a few gay balls, but no game was then in progress.
The big piano waited open near by. The bartender stood behind the bar, backed by rows of bottles,
shining glasses and trays. A mirror reflected the occupants of the room, some of whom were
leaning against the counter in various attitudes, but the central figure stood facing them.

It was a beautiful young girl who was singing.

A few feet from, and directly in front of the girl, was her companion, a well dressed and good
looking young man a little older. Both were intoxicated, and trying to dance a cake walk, accompanying
themselves by singing, "I'd Leave my Happy Home for You."

She was singing in a tipsy, disconnected way the senseless ditty, swaying back and forth to
the imaginary music. Beautiful as a dream, with dark hair, and great melting eyes, her skin
was like lilies, and each cheek a luscious peach. Her tall, graceful figure, clad in long,
sweeping black draperies, with white jeweled fingers daintily lifting her skirts while she
stepped backward and forward, made a picture both fascinating and horrible.

I sat gazing like one petrified. The girl's laugh rang through the room. "I'd Leave my Happy
Home for You, ou--ou," she was singing still, weaving and swaying now from side to side as
if about to fall. Her companion approached and attempted to place his arm about her shoulders,
but she gave him a playful push which sent him sprawling, at which she shouted in great glee,
dropping her drapery and flinging her lovely arms above her head. How the diamonds sparkled
on her little hands I How the men in the bar-room clapped, swearing she was a good one, and
must have another drink. Someone gave an order, and the bartender handed out a small tray upon
which stood slender-necked amber-colored glasses filled to the brim.

As the girl quickly tossed off the liquor, I groaned aloud, awaked from my trance, and fled
to my room, where I bolted the door, and fell upon my knees. God forgive her! What a sight!
I wanted to rush into the bar-room, seize the young girl, and lead her away from the place
and her companions, but I could not. I had barely enough room for myself. I had little money.
What could I do for her? Absolutely nothing. If I went in and attempted to talk with her it
would do no good, for she was drunk, and a drunken person cannot reason. The men would jeer
at me, and I might be ejected from the place.

Finally I went to bed. At midnight the singing and shouting ceased, the people dispersed, the
bartender put out the lights, and locked the doors.

For the first time since reaching Nome, my pillow was wet with tears, and I prayed for gold
with which to help lift these, my sisters, from their awful degradation.

It was well towards midnight, and I had been asleep for some time. My subjective mind, ever
on the alert as usual, and ready to share enjoyment as well as pain with my objective senses,
began gradually to inform me that there was music in the air. Softly and sweetly, like rippling
summer waters over mossy stones, the notes floated upward to my ears. The hands of an artist
lay upon the keyboard of the instrument in the room beneath.

I listened drowsily.

With the singing of brooks, I heard the twitter of little birds, the rustle of leaves on the
trees, and saw the maiden-hair nodding in the glen. I was a little child far away in the Badger
State. Again I was rambling through green fields, and plucking the pretty wild flowers. How
sweet and tender the blue skies above! How gentle the far-away voice of my mother as she called me!

They were singing softly now,--men's voices, well trained, and in sweetest harmony:

   "I'm coming, I'm coming,
      My ear is bending low.
    I hear the angel's voices calling
      Old Black Joe."

They sang the whole song through, and I was now wide awake.

Familiar songs and old ballads followed, the master hand at the keys accompanying.

"We are going outside on the Ohio tomorrow," said one in an interval of the music, "and then,
ho! for home again, so I'm happy," and a momentary clog dance pounded the board floor.

"Have a drink on it, boys?" asked a generous bystander who had been enjoying the music.

"No, thanks, we never drink. Let's have a lively song now for variety," and the musician struck
up a coon song, which they sang lustily. Then followed "America," "Auld Lang Syne," and "'Mid
Pleasures and Palaces," the dear old "Home, Sweet Home" coming with intense sweetness and pathos
to my listening ear. No sound disturbed the singers, and others filed quietly out when they
had gone away. "God bless them, and give them a safe voyage home to their dear ones," I breathed,
with tears slipping from under wet lashes, and a great lump in my throat.

"Thank God for those who are above temptation, even in far-away Alaska," and again I turned,
and slept peacefully.

CHAPTER XIII.

OFF FOR GOLOVIN BAY.

By October twelfth the weather began to be quite wintry, with snow flurries, cold wind, and
a freezing ground. All now felt their time short in which to prepare for winter, change residence,
and get settled. After many days of planning, in which eight or ten persons were concerned,
it was finally decided that we should go to Golovin Bay. The head missionary, and one or two
of his assistants from that place, had been with us part of the time during the great storm,
so we were quite well acquainted, and we would be near the Mission.

The "boys," as we called the young men for short, would build a cabin in which the funds of
the women were also to be pooled. Three of the boys had gone, some weeks before, to Golovin
to assist in the erection of a new Mission Home, twelve miles further down the coast; but as
a shipload of mission supplies had been lost at sea, including building materials, their work
was much hampered, and it was not expected that the new home would be completed, though sadly
needed for the accommodation of the constantly increasing numbers of Eskimo children for which
it was intended.

In this case, no new helpers could be added to the missionary force, though Miss L., a tall,
intelligent young woman, was to be placed in the Home kitchen as cook, and would accompany
us to Golovin. It was decided, then, that the restaurant be closed immediately before the last
boat left Nome for Golovin, as it would be impossible to get there after the last steamer had
gone until the ice was solid, and winter trails were good over the hills. Most of us did not
care to remain so long where we were, and made ready to sail on the small coast steamer "Elk,"
scheduled to leave Nome October eighteenth.

On the evening of the sixteenth the doors of the "Star" were formally closed. We had had a
rush up to the last moment, and all hands were completely tired out. It had been a long pull,
and a steady pull, and the thought uppermost in the minds of us four women was to get to Golovin
and rest. Even Alma sighed for a vacation from hard work, feeling that the roadhouse, if they
opened one, must wait until she was rested.

Mary wished to remain at Nome for a while, and come later by dog-team when the trails were
good. She would take a day after we had gone to finish storing away the "Star" outfit for the
next summer, and make the rooms tidy, afterwards visiting acquaintances, and doing shopping.

For two days after closing the "Star" we were busy as bees, but at a change of occupation.
We bought food supplies, coal-oil, and warm clothing, receiving parcels of the latter, including
yarns for winter knitting, at the hands of the stewardess of the "St. Paul," who had kindly
made our purchases in San Francisco at better prices (for us) than we found at Nome. Some bought
furs, when they could find them, though these were scarce and costly, and each person carried
his own bedding. Letters to the outside were written and posted, mails collected, freight and
other bills paid, and tickets secured on the steamer.

For my own part, I now found some kindly helper with strong arms whenever I had a trunk, bag,
or box to lift or transfer, and no remuneration for services thus rendered beyond a smiling,
"thank you very much," was ever accepted.

What a strong, hearty, clean, and good-natured lot were these Swedes. How helpful, sympathetic,
and jolly withal. It was easy for them to see the clear, bright side of everything, and to
turn an innocent joke on themselves occasionally; for one told on another is never so effective
and enjoyable as a joke on oneself; but there were often those with tears in their eyes, and
a homesick feeling at their heart upon bidding farewell to friends who were leaving for the
outside.

With the approach of a long, hard winter in the Arctic, so unknown and untried by many, with
a distance of thousands of miles of ocean soon to roll between them, it was many times difficult
to say a careless good-bye. For those remaining in Alaska, who could foresee the future? Was
it to be a fortunate and happy one, or would it disclose only misfortune, with, perchance,
sickness and death? Would these partings be followed by future happy meetings, or were they
now final? Who could tell?

Among those constantly sailing for the outside were those who left regretfully, and those who
left joyfully; there was the husband and father returning to his loved ones with "pokes," well
filled with nuggets, and the wherewithal to make them more happy than ever before.

There were those returning to sweethearts who daily watched and waited longingly for their
home-coming which would be more than joyful. There were those leaving who would come again
when the long winter was over, to renew their search for gold already successfully begun; and
they were satisfied.

There were many who left the gold fields with discouragement depicted upon their every feature.
They had been entirely unable to adapt themselves to circumstances so different to any they
had before known, and they had not possessed the foresight and judgment to decide affairs when
the critical moments came. Perhaps a fondness for home, and dear ones, pulled too persistently
upon the heartstrings; nothing here looked good to them, and they went home disgusted with
the whole world. Unless a man or woman can quickly adjust himself or herself to changed conditions,
and has a willingness to turn his or her hand to any honorable labor, he would better remain
at home, and allow others to go to Alaska.

If a man goes there with pockets already well lined, intending to operate in mining stocks,
he still needs the adjustable spirit, because of the new, crude, and compulsory manners of
living. He must be able to forget the luxury of silver spoons, delicate hands, soft beds, and
steam heat; enjoying, or at least accommodating himself to the use of tin spoons, coarse food,
no bed, and less heat, if his place and circumstances for a time demand such loss of memory.

A bountiful supply of hopefulness is also necessary, in order, at times, to make the darkness
and discomfort of the present endurable, and this will wonderfully cheer and create patience.
Thousands of persons who were ill qualified in these and other respects had journeyed to Alaska,
only to return, homesick, penniless, and completely discouraged, who never should have left
their home firesides.

Not so with the Swedish people. They are accustomed to a cold climate, hard work, and conditions
needing patience and perseverance, without great luxuries in their homes, and being strong
and hearty physically, they are well fitted, both by nature and practice, for life in the new
gold fields of Alaska. There were more reasons than one for their success in the far Northwest,
and a little study of cause and effect would disclose the truth, when it will be found that
it was not all "luck" which made so many successful.

Our last day at Nome is a confused memory of trunks, boxes, bags, barrels, dog-teams, tickets,
bills, lunches, tables, dishes, and numerous other things. Tramping hurriedly through busy,
dirty streets, and heavy, sandy beach, with arms loaded with small baggage (we had neither
parrots nor poodles) making inquiries at stores and offices, doing innumerable errands, saying
good-byes, and having good-luck wishes called after us; and then, when the sun had disappeared
for the day, and night was almost upon us, we turned our backs upon our summer camp, and hastened
to our winter home.

At the water's edge small pieces of ice washed up and down with a clicking sound upon the sands,
as if to give us notice of approaching winter, but the ocean was almost as smooth as a floor.
No breath of wind disturbed the surface, and only a gentle swell came landward at intervals
to remind us of its still mighty, though hidden, power.

Then we were all in readiness to leave. A little boat was drawn upon the sand. Into it all
small baggage was tossed. It was then pushed out farther by men in high rubber boots standing
in the water.

"I cannot get into the boat," laughed Little Alma, "I will get my feet wet."

"Not if I can help it," answered a stalwart sailor, who immediately picked her up bodily and
set her down in the boat, repeating the operation three times, in spite of the screams and
laughter of Miss L., Ricka and myself. Ricka and I were only of medium height, but Miss L.
was a good six-footer, and when we were safely in the boat, and she had been picked up in the
sailor's strong arms, if she did not scream for herself, some of us did it for her, thinking
she would certainly go head first into the water; but no, she was carefully placed, like the
rest of us, in the boat.

After getting settled, and the final good-byes were waved, the men sprang in, those on shore
pushed the boat off; we were again on the bosom of old Behring Sea. Smaller and fainter grew
all forms upon the shore. Darker and deeper grew the waters beneath us. The lights of a few
belated steamers, twinkled in the distance, their reflections, beautiful as jewels, quietly
fixed upon the placid waters. Like a thing of sense, it seemed to me, the great ocean, full
of turmoil, rage, and fury so recently, it would show us, before we left, how lamblike, upon
occasions, it could be; and all old scores against it were then and there forgotten.

A dark form soon lay just before us. "Where is the 'Elk,'" I asked of a sailor rowing, looking
about in the gathering darkness which had rapidly fallen.

"There it is," pointing to a black hulk which lay sullenly, without a spark of light visible,
close to us.

"But do they not know we are coming? Have they no light on board? How can we get upon deck?"
we asked anxiously.

"O, they will bring a lantern, I guess," laughed the sailor, then thinking to put us at our
ease, he called lustily as he rested himself at his oars. Not getting a reply, he shouted again.

Presently two men appeared with as many lanterns.

"Here, you fellows, get a move on, and help these ladies on board, will you? Were you asleep, hey?"

"Wall, no, not 'zactly, sah, but I'se done been working hard today," it was the colored cook
replying, as he rubbed his sleepy eyes.

"Haul up alongside this dory," said the other man as he put his lantern down, "and let the
ladies get into that first, then we'll help 'em up here."

With that we climbed out as we best could in the darkness, one after another, the boys assisting,
until we all stood laughing in the little cabin, and counted noses.

"Are we all here?" asked Mr. G., who, as usual had a thoughtful care over all.

"All here, I think, but the baggage. How about that?" said I.

"I'll see to that," and he was already on deck, while I continued counting.

"Alma, Ricka, Miss L., Mr. G., Mr. L., Mr. B., and myself--the lucky number of seven. How fortunate
we are. We are sure to have good luck. Too bad Mary is not here, but then we would not be seven,"
and we were all laughing and talking at the same time.

In the cabin there was only one lamp, and that was swung over the table, looking in all its
smoky smelliness as if it had hung there for ages without a scrubbing. The table was covered
with dirty dishes scattered upon an oilcloth spread. The room smelled of fish, tobacco, and
coal-oil, and we were obliged to go to the door now and then for fresh air. There was no fire,
nor heat, neither was there a place for any. Rows of berths in two tiers lined each side of
the cabin, but they were supplied with mattresses only. Dark curtains hung on wires before
the berths, and these would furnish us with our only privacy on the trip.

Finally we selected our berths, assorted our luggage, and sat down to rest. We were disappointed
in the "Elk." She was not a "St. Paul," that was certain. The colored cook soon entered. His
apologies were profuse.

"Hope de ladies will 'scuze de state ob dis year room, but I'se done been mighty busy today,
and will hab tings fine tomorer."

"That's all right, Jim, if you only give us a good dinner tomorrow. Can you do it?" asked Mr. L.

"Yas, sah, dis chile good cook when de tings are gibben him to cook, but when dere's no taters,
no fresh meat, no chicken, no fruit, den it's mighty hard to set up fine meals. Dat's de truf!"
and Jim nodded his woolly head emphatically at the frequent undesirable state of his larder.

"Prices high heah, sah, but dis old man almos' fru wid de business; de las' trip ob de 'Elk'
dis summah, an' I'se glad of it," and he disappeared in the galley carrying his arms full of
dishes.

When the table was cleared and Jim had spread an old and much rumpled red cover over it, I
took from my basket a small square clock, and winding it up with its little key, started it
going. It was a musical clock I had purchased when in Nome, of a small boy about to leave for
the outside. It had been given him by a lady, and he had grown tired of it, his mind being
so much upon his contemplated long journey. He would sell it for three dollars, he said, and
I paid the money, needing a time piece, and having none. So now the little music box ticked
off its music to the entertainment of all.

However, we were all tired and the place was cold, so after we had taken our last look at the
lights of Nome, scattered as they were along the shore for miles in the darkness, we turned
in for the night, all dressed as we were, and drew the curtains around us. The long, deep-toned
whistle of the "Elk," had sounded some time before, and we were headed east, making our way
quietly over the smooth waters.

Another chapter of our lives had begun. What would the end be, I wondered.

During the night I was awakened by men running and shouting on deck. The steamer stopped. Somebody
went out to inquire the cause. In a little while he returned, saying that four men had been
picked up, nearly frozen, in an open boat which was leaking badly, and they were found just
in time. Dry clothes, with food and hot drinks, and they would be all right again; so I turned
over and tried to sleep, but the men lounged about, smoking and talking with the captain a
good share of the night, so that sleep was almost out of the question.

How I wished for fresh air! How I hated the tobacco smoke! But we could say nothing, for the
men had no beds, no other place to sit, and it was too cold on deck. We must be patient, and
I was patient, feeling thankful that the lives of the four men had been saved, if each one
did smoke like a volcano and come near choking us to death.

After a while there was another commotion. What now? Their five dogs had been left in the leaking
dory, which was trailing behind us, the boat was swamping, and the animals were almost drowned.
They were whining, crying, and soaking wet; so the "Elk" was again stopped, the dogs taken
on board, along with some of the miners' outfits, and we again started on our way.

The men said their dory had been blown ten miles out to sea by a wind many hours before, and
had then sprung a leak, wetting their food, and threatening them with destruction, when the
"Elk" appeared and took them aboard in the night.

"Wall, yes, we had given ourselves up for lost, though none said much about it," remarked one
of the saved men next day, in speaking of their experience. "Some one mentioned God Almighty,
I believe, and I could almost have spoken to Him myself, but it does look like He had done
something for us, don't it?" said the miner, laughing quietly, in a pleased, relieved way as
he finished.

We were exceedingly glad for their deliverance from a watery grave, but we pitied ourselves
for our discomforts, until we pictured ourselves in their forlorn condition, far out from land,
at night, in a leaky boat, without food and freezing; then I found myself feeling really grateful
for the privilege of sailing on the "Elk," and not discontented as at first. We would get fresh
air enough this winter, no doubt, to drive away all remembrances of the air in the little steamer's
cabin, which was cold as well as foul. There were no windows or ports that we could see; there
was doubtless a closed skylight somewhere, but to keep warm even in our berths required management.
In my hand luggage I carried a bright woolen Indian blanket, a souvenir of St. Michael the
year before, in which I now rolled myself, already dressed in my warmest clothing and heavy coat.

A light-weight grey blanket was loaned me by the cook, who had purloined it from the pilot's
bunk, he being on duty and not needing it that night. This I was rather chary of using, for
reasons of my own, but it was that or nothing, only the mattress being underneath. On my head
I wore a pink crocheted affair, called sometimes a "fascinator," which was now used simply
and solely for service, I assured my friends, and not from any lighter motive,--but my feet!
How I should keep them comfortable while on board was a question. With my feet cold I would
be perfectly miserable, and although I wore wool hose and high, stout laced boots, I soon found
on going aboard the "Elk" that to be comfortable I must make a change.

I said nothing, but turned the situation well over in mind. At last I found a solution. Going
to my bags once more, on the aside I drew out my new reindeer skin muckluks, or high fur boots,
and looked at them. What enormous footgear, to be sure. Could I wear those things? I had put
five good, hard-earned dollars into them, and they were said to be warm and very comfortable
when worn properly, with hay in the bottoms, and Arctic socks over one's hose, but I had no
hay and could not get any.

I had the socks in my trunk, but that was in the hold of the ship, or somewhere out of my reach.
I held the muckluks in my hands, and slowly turned them round. Suddenly a bright thought came.
I would pull them on over my shoes. I did it. They went on easily. I drew the strings attached
at the back of the ankle forward over the instep, crossed them, carried them back, crossed
them a second time and tied them in front, in order to use up the strings so they would not
trip me in walking. Just below the knees I pulled a woolen drawstring which was run into the
green flannel, inch-wide heading, and tied this loosely; then I studied them. Shades of my
buried ancestry! What a fright! My own mother would never know me. I wanted to scream with
laughter, but could not, for I had performed the operation in a most surreptitious manner,
behind closed doors (bunk curtains), after the others had retired.

I had no compunctions of conscience as to putting my shoes upon the bed, for the mattress was
both sombre and lonely, and as for the muckluks, they had never been worn by man (and were
surely never made for woman). The most that I could do was to lie back upon my bed, cram my
fascinator into my mouth, and struggle to suppress my risibles.

After a time I succeeded, and lay enjoying the new sensation of feet and limbs warm and cozy
as if in my mother's warm parlor at home; and then I slept.

Next morning I kept my berth late. My sleep had been much broken, and the place was cold. The
bad air had taken my appetite, and there were already too many in the small cabin for convenience.
Four or five men and three women besides our own party of seven, crowded in between the dining
table and the berths, filled the small cabin quite beyond comfort.

The main question in my mind, however, was how to prevent the company from seeing my feet.
I would put off the evil hour as long as possible, for they were sure to laugh heartily when
they saw my muckluks, and to take them off--I would not. Some one brought me a sandwich finally,
inquiring at the same time for my health, but I assured them it was first class,--I was only
resting. Watching my opportunity, toward noon I slipped out of my berth quietly and made myself
ready for dinner, keeping my feet well out of sight, for cook Jim had promised a fine spread
for the two o'clock meal.

When it came I was ready. It is said that hunger is a good sauce, and I believe this is true,
for otherwise I could never have eaten the dinner that day. Upon a soiled and rumpled white
(?) cloth Jim placed his "big spread," which consisted of whole jacketed boiled and baked potatoes,
meat stew (no questions allowed), dried prunes stewed, biscuits, and fourth rate butter, with
tea and coffee.

At only one camp was there a stop made. There were two or three passengers on board for Bluff
City, a new and prosperous mining camp, composed chiefly, though so late in the season, of
tents. Lumber and supplies of different kinds had to be put off. As the entrance to the hold
of the ship where the stores were kept was in our cabin, we had plenty of fresh air while the
doors were all open, along with the mustiness from below, for several hours. However, I managed
to keep pretty comfortable and snug in "fascinator" and muckluks, enveloped as I was in my
Indian blanket.

Hearing a bluff, hearty voice which sounded familiar, I looked around, and in walked a man
whom I had seen at St. Michael the fall before. He had charge of the eating house there, where
my brother and I had taken our meals for two weeks. I had not forgotten his kindness in giving
me sore throat medicine when there had been nothing of the sort to buy, and I was suffering.

This man remembered me well, and sat down to chat for a little while with us. He was a miner
now, and a successful one, he said, for he was taking out "big money" from his lay on Daniels
Creek, only five minutes' walk from the beach. I had been informed of his good fortune before
meeting him, so was ready with congratulations.

He told me of his cabin building, his winter's stores and fuel, and seemed in high spirits.
Of course I could not ask him what he meant by "big money," or what he had taken from his claim,
although it would not here, as in the Klondyke, be a breach of etiquette to inquire. After
a few minutes chat the man bade us good-bye, and descended to the small boat alongside, which
was to carry him and his freight ashore.

It was nearly dark by this time, and another night must be passed on board. Some were complaining
of the cold. Others were shuffling their feet to get them warm.

"My feet are awfully cold," said Alma, moving them uneasily about. "Aren't yours, Mrs. Sullivan?"

"Not at all," I replied, trying to look unconcerned, at the same time putting my feet further
under my skirts, which were not the very short ones I had worn at Nome. "You know what having
cold feet in this country means, I suppose, Alma?"

"O, I am not in the least homesick, if that is what you mean. I am perfectly happy; but--"
(here she glanced down upon the floor in the direction of my feet) "what have you over your
shoes, any way, to keep so warm, Mrs. Sullivan?"

There was no help for it, and the muckluks had to come to light, and did. At sight of them
they all shouted, and Alma laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks.

"And you have had these on all day without our seeing them? Where have you kept your feet,
in your pocket?" she persisted.

"Well, no, not exactly, but of course, under the circumstances, you could hardly expect me
to hang a signboard out to call attention to them, could you?" I laughed.

"I should say not. Will we all look like that in muckluks? Is there nothing else we can wear
this winter? They will make our feet look so awfully large, you see?"

"That's the way we will all look, only a good deal worse, for some of us have no skirts to
cover them with, as you have," spoke up Mr. G. for the first time.

"I thought the 'Elk' leaned to the land side more today than usual," said Mr. B. with a twinkle,
"but now it is explained."

"Bad boy! My muckluks were on that side of the ship from the first, only they were in my bag
for a while. They are no heavier now than they were then. You shall have no supper," said I,
with mock severity.

So I kept the fur boots on, in spite of their jokes, wondering what they would say when I arrived
at Golovin and removed my fascinator (another surprise I was keeping for them), and contented
myself by thinking I had the laugh on them, when they complained of cold feet, and my own were
so perfectly comfortable.

At last, on the morning of October twentieth, with the sun just rising over the snowy hills
surrounding the water, the cliffs on both sides of the entrance standing out clear and sharp
in the cold morning light, and with one ship already there, we dropped anchor, being in Golovin
Bay. The settlement, a score of houses, a hotel, a flagstaff or two, and the Mission.

I now waked the girls, who turned out of their bunks, dressed as they had been since coming
on board the "Elk," and we made ready to go ashore. We were out in deep water, still some distance
from the beach, and must again get out into a small boat, probably for the last time this year.
Not all could get into the boat; we must take turns, but we were bundled into it some way,
and soon we were upon the sands, a dozen feet from dry land. Again we were transferred by one
man power, as at Nome, to the sands, which were here frozen quite hard, and upon which I had
the sensation, at first, of walking with a gunboat attached to each foot.

Some one conducted us to the Mission House, only a few hundred yards from our landing place,
while the boat went back to the "Elk" for the others. Miss E., who had come up on the "St.
Paul" with us, and now the housekeeper here, came running out to welcome all cordially. By
her we were shown into the cozy little parlor, so tidy, bright and warm that we immediately
felt ourselves again in civilization. Soon Mr. H., the head missionary, whom I had already
met in Nome, came in with Miss J., the teacher of the Mission children. She also had spent
some days with us at Nome. These all made us very welcome, and our party of seven was soon
sitting together before a good, smoking hot breakfast, to which we did real justice.

When entering the house I had, upon first removing my wraps and "fascinator," given my friends
another surprise equal to the one of the muckluks on the steamer. The day before leaving Nome
I had (surreptitiously again) made a visit to the hairdresser, and when I left her room I appeared
another woman. My head now, instead of being covered with long, thin hair, done up hastily
in a twist at the back, had short hair and curled all over, a great improvement, they all voted,
when the first surprise was over.

My hair, all summer, had been like that of most women when first in Alaska, falling out so
rapidly that I feared total baldness if something was not done to prevent. This was the only
sure remedy for the trouble, as I knew from former experience, and as I again proved, for it
entirely stopped coming out. Ricka soon followed my example, and we, with Miss J., who had
been relieved of her hair by fever the year before, made almost a colony of short-haired women,
much to the amusement of some of our party.

After we had eaten our breakfasts, several of us set to work at writing letters to send out
to Nome by the "Elk," which would remain a few hours unloading freight, as this might be our
last opportunity for many weeks, or until the winter mails were carried by dog-teams over the
trails. We fancied our friends on the outside would be glad to hear that we had arrived safely
at Golovin, and our pens flew rapidly over the paper. These letters, finally collected, were
placed in the hands of one of the "Elk's" crew for mailing at Nome, and the steamer sailed away.

Not all, however, wrote letters. The business head of the "Star" firm had not been idle, nor
writing letters, and while I wrote Alma was deeply engaged, well seconded by Ricka, in making
arrangements with Mr. H. by which we could remain in this Mission House all winter. Before
noon it was decided that we should stay, assisting the missionaries all in our power until
such time as they could move to their new station, as soon as the ice was firm enough in the
bay to travel upon and the Home was far enough toward completion. It was impossible to finish
the building now, but so far as practicable it would be made habitable, and all necessary and
movable articles of furniture would be carried to the Home, though many large pieces would
be left for our use.

This arrangement included our party of seven, Mary at Nome, and the three boys at work at this
time on the new Home building, and would do away with all necessity for building a cabin, lumber
being expensive and good logs scarce.

This intelligence came just in time for insertion in our home letters sent away on the "Elk,"
and it was a day of rejoicing for at least seven persons (Miss L. was to go to the Home, but
Mary was to come to us from Nome), who already considered themselves a "lucky number."

CHAPTER XIV.

LIFE AT GOLOVIN.

Our first duty after arriving at Golovin was to look up our freight, which seemed to be in
a general mix-up. Each person was searching on the beach and in the warehouse for something.
For my part, I was greatly concerned over the probable loss of a case of coal oil, and a box
containing wool blankets, feather pillow, and other things too precious to lose after paying
freight, especially as some of the articles could not be replaced, and all were useful and
necessary. The "Elk's" crew had dumped the freight promiscuously upon the frozen sands, considering
their duty at that point done, and no assurance was given us that the freight was all there,
or that it was in good condition. The risk was all ours. We could find it or lose it--that
did not concern the "Elk." As we had no idea as to the honesty of the community in which we
had come to reside, and little confidence in some of the "Elk's" passengers who were also receiving
freight, we visited the beach a number of times during the first two days. While at Nome and
packing up to leave I had remembered the story of the person who, going to market, put all
the eggs into one basket, and for that reason, when an accident occurred, she lost the whole
lot; while, if she had placed them in two baskets, one-half might have-been saved. For this
reason I then packed my blankets in two boxes, and now as one was missing I was glad I had
done so, for to be entering upon a cold, long winter without woolen blankets would be hard
lines indeed.

The first day was spent by the boys in hauling baggage and freight into the old school house,
near the mission, which was to be our store room for a time. This building was made of logs,
sod and mud plaster, with small doors and windows, and thatched roof, now overgrown with grass
and weeds.

It had long-been deserted, or given over to storing purposes, as the new school and church
building was put up alongside, and was being used at the present time. We would unpack as little
as possible, while the Mission family remained, as their house was too small to accommodate
comfortably so many. Mr. H. was like the old woman who lived in a shoe, for he really had such
a family that he was puzzled as to what disposition he should make of them. However, the men
were all lodged in the new school building, as it was vacation time, and no session; trunks
and baggage, except bedding, were put in the store house.

The Eskimo children and the women occupied the second floor of the mission. Mr. H. had his
room on the first floor, oftentimes shared with some visiting missionary or friend, and I was
the best lodged of all. The big velvet couch in the sitting-room by the fire was allotted to
me, and I slept luxuriously, as well as comfortably. The newest and most modern article of
furniture in the establishment, this couch, was soft, wide, and in a warm, cozy corner of the room.

From being lodged above a bar-room in Nome, I had come to a parlor in the Mission, and I was
well pleased with the changed atmosphere, as well as the reduction of charges; for, whereas
I had paid five dollars per week for my small, unfurnished room there, I now paid nothing,
except such help as I could give the women in the house.

I felt, too, that I had earned, by my hard work during the summer, all the rest and comfort
I could get, and I thoroughly enjoyed the change. Where among the drones and laggards is one
who can find such sweets as well-earned rest and comfort after labor? What satisfaction to
feel the joy all one's own. None assisted in the earning, and consequently none expected a
division of reward. It was all my own. If this is selfishness, it is surely a refined sort,
and excusable.

I was not, however, the only one in the Mission who enjoyed a well-earned rest. Each one of
our party of seven had worked for months as hard and harder than I, and all found a vacation
as pleasing, while the Mission people had the same round of work and as much as they could
accomplish all the year round.

The day after our arrival at Golovin was Sunday. The weather was clear and sunny, but cold.
We were now not only to have a vacation ourselves, but could give our working clothes a rest
as well, and I took great pleasure in unearthing a good black dress which was not abbreviated
as to length, surprising my friends by my height, after being in short skirts so long. It was
really Sunday now, and we wore our Sunday clothes for the first time in months, not having
had an opportunity for Sabbath observance in the work we had done at Nome.

To complete our enjoyment of the good day, there was the organ in the sitting-room, and upon
my first entering the room, and seeing the instrument I had drawn a deep sigh of inward delight.
To find an organ, yes, two of them, for there was also one standing in the schoolroom, or little
church, was to feel sure of many bright and happy hours during the coming winter, and I felt
more than ever that for strangers in the Arctic world we were, indeed, highly favored.

It was not long before I discovered that with at least two of our party of seven music was
a passion, for Ricka, as well as Mr. B., could never have enough, and it was a pleasure to
see the real and unaffected delight upon their faces when I played. We were really quite well
supplied with musical instruments, for there were now in the Mission two guitars, one mandolin,
a violin and a few harmonicas, besides the two organs, while as for vocalists everybody sang
from Mr. H. down to the Eskimo boys, girls and the baby.

But this day's climax was the three o'clock dinner, prepared by Miss E. Could anything be more
restful to three tired restaurant workers than to sit quietly in easy chairs, allow others
to prepare the meal and invite them to partake, without having given a thought to the preparation
of the same, gaining, as we did, a knowledge of what was coming only by the pleasant odors
proceeding from the kitchen? Certainly not, and the increased appetite that comes with this
rest is only a part of the enjoyment. So when we were seated at the table on Sunday, the second
day of our arrival at Golovin, before us fresh roast mutton, baked potatoes, stewed tomatoes,
coffee, bread and butter, with pickles, and a most delicious soup made of dried prunes, apricots,
raisins and tapioca for dessert, we were about the happiest people in Alaska and appreciated
it immensely. What bread Miss E. did make, with slices as large as saucers, not too thin, snowy,
but fresh and sweet. What coffee from the big pot, with Eagle brand cream from the pint can
having two small holes in the top, one to admit air and the other to let the cream out. Nothing
had tasted so good to us since we had come home, as hungry children, from school. As then,
we were care-free, if only for a little while, and we were a jolly, happy crowd.

In the evening, when the children were once in bed, we all gathered in the sitting-room for
music, stories and plans for the future, including the placing of a few new strings on the
musical instruments and tuning of the same. Mr. H. had gone to the Home the afternoon before,
so there had been no preaching service as ordinarily in the little schoolhouse across the road.
The boys were talking of going to the Home across the bay next day in a boat, but a wind came
up which finally developed into a stout southwester, and Monday was a most disagreeable day.
Alma worked on a fur cap, to practise, she said, on some one before making her own. Ricka mended
mittens and other garments for the boys, while I sewed on night clothes for the little Eskimo baby.

The child was probably between three and four years old, but nobody knew exactly, for she was
picked up on the beach, half dead, a year before, by the missionary, where she was dying of
neglect. Her mother was dead, and her grandfather was giving her the least attention possible,
so that she was sickly, dirty and starved. She had well repaid the kind people who took her
into the Mission, being now fat and healthy, as well as quite intelligent. She was a real pet
with all the women immediately, being the youngest of this brood of twenty youngsters and having
many cunning little ways. In appearance she looked like a Japanese, as, in fact, all Eskimos
do, having straight black hair, and eyes shaped much like those of these people, while all
are short and thick of stature, with few exceptions.

Among this score of little natives there were some who were very bright. All were called by
English names, and Peter, John, Mary, Ellen and Susan, as well as Garfield, Lincoln and George
Washington, with many others, became familiar household words, though the two last named were
grown men, and now gone out from the Mission into houses of their own.

As to the dressing of these children, it was also in English fashion, except for boots, which
were always muckluks, and parkies of fur for outside garments, including, perhaps, drill parkies
for mild weather, or to pull on over the furs, when it rained or snowed, to keep out the water.
As the weather grew more severe, heavy cloth or fur mittens were worn, and little calico and
gingham waists and dresses were discarded for flannel ones.

The children, for weeks after our arrival, ran out often to play, bareheaded and without wraps,
having frequently to be reminded when the weather was severe, to put them on. In the kitchen
they had their own table, where they were separately served, though at the same time as their
elders at another table in the room. To preserve the health of the little ones, not taking
entirely away their native foods of seal meat and oil, tom-cod (small fish), reindeer meat
and wild game, these were fed to them on certain days of the week, as well as other native
dishes dear to the Eskimo palate, but they were well fed at all times, and grew fat and hearty
as well as happy.

As we sewed contentedly in the sitting-room on Monday the storm continued, snowing and blowing
a gale from the southwest, which, though not disturbing us even slightly, we felt sure would
be bad for those at sea and at Nome; our own experiences at that place giving us always a large
sympathy for others in similar plight. Long afterwards we learned that in this storm the "Elk"
had been blown ashore at Nome, and was pretty thoroughly disabled, if not entirely wrecked,
and we wondered if poor cook Jim had "done been mighty busy, sah, gittin' tings fixed" ever since.

When evening came the children and Baby Bessie were put to bed; work, indoors and out, was
finished for that day, and we were twelve in the sitting-room, as merry a crowd as one could
find in all Alaska. Miss J. had taken a lesson on the organ in the afternoon and was all interested
in making progress on that instrument, assuring her friends who declared she would never practise
her lessons, that she certainly would do so, as they would afterwards learn.

The winds might sigh and moan, and whirl the falling snow in the darkness as they liked; waters
congeal under the fingers of the frost king, closing the mouth of innumerable creeks, rivers,
and bays; but here under cover we had light, health, warmth and food, without a single care.
In my cozy, soft bed under the blankets, the firelight playing on the walls, the fine organ
open and ready for use, I lay often with wide open eyes, wondering if I were myself or another.

In one corner of the room stood a case containing books enough to supply us with reading matter
for a year, those printed in Swedish being, of course, of no use to me, but a variety of subjects
were here presented in English, ranging from Drummond's "Natural Law in the Spiritual World"
to nursery rhymes for the children. Volumes on medicine, law, science, travels, stories, ethics
and religion--all were here for the instruction and edification of inmates of the Mission.
In another corner there was a large case of medicines, and here were remedies in powders, liquids,
salves and pills, drawers filled with lint, bandages, cotton, and books of instruction teaching
the uses of all. Even surgical instruments were found here, as well as appliances for emergencies,
from broken and frozen limbs, mad-dog bites, and "capital operations," to a scratched finger
or the nose-bleed.

This outfit was for the use of any and all, without charge, who should be so unfortunate as
to require assistance of this sort in this region. Without money and without price, the only
case of remedies for many miles around, this Mission provided for all suffering ones who applied,
and during the winter many were relieved and assisted toward recovery.

In the third corner of this room stood the large cabinet organ, nearly new, and in good condition.
Instruction books, hymnals, "Gospel Hymns," small collections of words without music, Swedish
songs--all were here in abundance.

The fourth corner contained my couch-bed. A heating stove, made of sheet iron, a table with
its pretty spread, a large student lamp, easy chairs, a pretty ingrain rug covering the floor,
window shades and lace curtains, with pictures and Scripture texts upon the wall, completed
the room furnishings, making a homey place, which for years had been a haven of refuge for
the homeless Eskimo children. Besides these, it had given food, shelter and clothing to many
a white-faced wanderer, who came penniless, hungry and cold, perhaps ill and starving.

About seven years before this unpretending, now weather-beaten house had been erected, and
the kindly little dark-eyed man put in charge was at once at home. He was blessed with rare
versatility and patience, as well as a great heart of love for all mankind, including the dark-skinned,
seal-eating races of the Arctic.

From a door-latch to a baby's cradle, from a log-house to a sail-boat rigged with runners on
the ice, he planned, contrived and executed, principally for others, for years. Here we found,
in one room, from his hands a bedstead, a table, and a washstand commode, all made in white
wood, of regulation size, shape and pattern, though without paint or staining. Relegated now
to an upper room, since the velvet couch had arrived, was a long, wooden settle, with back,
ends and sliding seat, the latter to be pushed forward upon legs and made into double bed at night.

One day in the winter, when searching for open places under the roof through which the snow
was sifting, wetting the ceiling of the room below, I found in the attic a number of curious
things, and among them a child's cradle. Not all the thought of the good man had been given
to the needs of the "grown-ups," but the small, weak and helpless ones of his flock had received
their equal share of attention. The cradle was well made with solid high sides and ends, and
curved upper edges, swinging low and easily upon its two strong rockers. All was smooth, well
finished, and rounded, though there was no paint nor varnish, these articles being doubtless
unprocurable and not deemed strictly essential. Near by were the remnants of a white fox robe
fitting the cradle. It was made of baby fox skin, fine, soft and pretty. A flannel lining with
a pinked-out edge completed what had once been a lovely cover for baby, whether with white
face or black, and I fell to wishing I might have seen the complete outfit in its former days.

From the rafters of the attic hung articles of wearing apparel of curious make and pattern,
sometimes of skins of the wild reindeer or spotted seal. Of old mittens and muckluks there
were numbers, still preserved for the good they had done or might yet do at piecing out somewhere.
There were things for which I had not yet learned the uses, but might do so before the cold
winter had passed. There were also many fur skins, and new articles of value stored in the attic.

Tuesday, October twenty-third, the weather was not cold, but snow fell part of the day, and
it grew dark about half-past four in the afternoon. The gale of Monday had subsided, and the
sky was overcast. The steamer "Sadie" of the Alaska Commercial Company surprised us by coming
into Golovin, and again suddenly we fell to letter writing in order to send them out by her,
remaining several hours as she always did to unload freight and baggage, for this would positively
be our last steamer. Outside the boys worked as industriously as we women. In the old log-house,
a hundred feet from our door, was the building now used for a woodshed. Here, upon a big "double-decker"
saw-buck, two of the boys, with the big saw between them, worked away, hour after hour, at
the great logs of driftwood brought from the beach, as this was the only kind of fuel here
used, and much was needed for the winter fires.

When I had finished my work of sewing, and it grew too dark to thread needles, between that
hour and the one for the lamp lighting, I was usually seated at the organ, and our music was
not all Hymns from the Hymnals, certainly. There were marches and polkas, and sprightly waltzes,
too, and nothing was ever tabooed, though these classic selections were always omitted on Sunday.
None ever minded how long I sat at the organ, or how many times a day a certain piece was played,
and a few could never be sated; but I took good care that my work never lagged, and a duty
was never neglected for such pleasure, thereby making it always the recreation and enjoyable
exercise it was intended to be and not tiresome.

Miss J. now took a lesson on the instrument each day for a half hour after the lamps were lighted,
and as she had already had a few lessons, and could play a few hymns, she was much interested
in acquiring a further knowledge which would be helpful in church and Sunday school services.
Miss E., too, thought of beginning lessons if she could find time from her manifold duties
as house-mother of the numerous flock, and did take a few lessons before they moved away.

In the evening there was always singing, for some were sure to be present then, who had been
absent during the day. Perhaps Mr. H. had arrived with a Christian native from the Home, to
spend the night before going back on the morrow, with supplies of some sort for the completion
of his new house. He now headed the two establishments and vibrated between them, simply camping
at the new place and enjoying everything of home life possible in the Mission. At jokes and
repartee he was as good as the best of them, and always enjoyed a laugh like the youngest.

A level head and firm hand had this Swedish missionary of long experience. From a dozen or
more years at Yakutat, in southern Alaska, where he had done invaluable work for that Mission,
he had come about two years before to Golovin Bay, and now had, besides the Eskimo children
in that place, over four hundred government reindeer in charge. For these he kept a number
of experienced and trusty native drivers, and these either lived in his Mission or with their
families near at hand, as a few of them now were married.

This herd of animals was kept upon the hills where the reindeer moss grew in plenty, for they
could not, and would not, eat anything else if they literally starved to death, and they were
now five miles away. To remove this great family of a score and more with their belongings
over the ice, a distance of twelve miles in winter by dog-team, getting settled in a large
frame building, unplastered, and upon a bleak, unprotected shore, was an undertaking which
would have discouraged most men; especially as a shipload of needed supplies for their new
Home, including furniture, had been lost at sea, leaving them short of many such necessities.
But this was not all. The whole reindeer herd and their drivers, with their several families,
were also to be moved near the new Home, and to fresh moss pastures.

Near the Home was a good-sized creek of fresh and pure water, which ran singing along through
the hills to the ocean, and for this reason the site had been selected and built upon.

CHAPTER XV.

WINTER IN THE MISSION.

The first few garments I made for Little Bessie were not a great success. I had told Miss E.
that I would be delighted to assist her in any way that I could, never dreaming what would
come; and she being more in need of warm clothing for the children than anything else, with
rolls of uncut flannels, and baskets piled high with materials to be made into underwear, said
immediately that I might help with their sewing.

She then brought a piece of Canton flannel, and the shears, and put them into my hands, saying
that I might make two pairs of night-trowsers for the baby. My heart sank within me in a moment.
I made a desperate effort to collect myself, however, and quietly asked if she had a pattern.
No, she had none. The child, she said, kicked the cover off her in the night so often, and
the weather was growing so cold, that she and Miss J. thought a garment of the trouser description,
taking in the feet at the same time, would very well answer her needs, and this I was requested
to originate, pattern and all. Whatever should I do? I could more easily have climbed Mt. McKinley!
If she had told me to concoct a new pudding, write an essay, or make a trip to Kotzebue, I
should not have been so much dismayed; but to make a garment like that, out of "whole cloth,"
so to speak, from my own design--that was really an utter impossibility.

"O, well," she said, "I am sure you can do this well enough. It is not such a very particular
job; just make something in which to keep the child warm nights, you know. That is all I care
for," kindly added she, as she closed the door behind her and went back to the kitchen.

Finally I appealed to Alma. She was busy. She had never cut out anything of the sort, neither
had Ricka nor Miss L., but I being a married woman was supposed to have a superior knowledge
of all such things. I admitted that I might have a theory on the subject, but a "working hypothesis,"
alas, I had none.

Still I hung around Alma, who was an expert dressmaker of years' standing in San Francisco.

"No, I can't cut them out, really; but why don't you make a pattern from some garment on hand?"

Here was an idea. Something to build upon.

"But there are the feet, and the waist?" I said still anxiously.

"O, build them on to your pattern," she said carelessly; as if anyone with half an eye and
one hand could do that sort of building, and she left the room for more important matters.

There was nothing else for me to do. I secured a suit of the baby's clothing throughout, and,
taking the cloth, the shears, and an old newspaper, I went upstairs to Miss J.'s room and closed
the door. I wanted to be alone. I longed to have my dear old mother there for just one short
hour, for in that time I felt certain she would have cut out these as well as other garments,
enough to keep us for weeks sewing, as her own babies had kept her at one time.

However, there was no help for me, and I went to work. For an hour I cut and whittled on that
old newspaper, along with a number of others, before I got a pattern that I fancied might do.
Then I submitted it to Miss J. herself, who told me to go ahead and cut it out. It appeared
all right, so far as she could see. Then I cut, and basted, and tried the garment on Bessie.
It was too wide across the chest, too short in the legs, and the feet were monstrosities. What
was to be done, I asked of the others?

"Make new feet, and sew them on around the ankle," said Miss J., thoughtfully, surveying her
little charge from all sides, as the child stood first on one foot, then on the other, "then
you can lengthen the legs a little if you want to," careful not to offend by criticising abruptly,
but still feeling that the height of the gearing should be increased.

"Dear me, that's easy enough," suggested Alma, "just put a wide box plait down the front, like
that in a shirtwaist, and it will be all right."

"The back can be taken out in the placket," and Ricka folded and lapped the cloth on the little
child's shoulders, and then we called Miss E. from the kitchen. After making a few suggestions
in a very conservative way, as if they did not come readily because the garment was just about
right; she left the room hastily, saying her bread would burn in the oven; and I thought I
heard her giggling with Miss L. in Swedish until she ran away out into the woodshed, ostensibly
for an armful of wood; though if her bread were already burning I wondered what she wanted
of more fire.

I did not blame her; I laughed too. The little child looked exceedingly funny as she stood
there in that wonderful garment, with black eyes shining like beads, and face perfectly unsmiling,
as she nearly always looks, wondering why it was we were laughing.

October twenty-fourth the boys worked all day at making the house more comfortable for winter,
nailing tar paper upon the north side, where some clapboards were missing, putting on storm
or double windows outside of the others, and filling the cracks with putty. A couple of the
boys also worked at hauling supplies of apples and potatoes from the warehouse by dog-team,
putting the eatables into the cellar under the kitchen, which was well packed in with hay.
This cellar was a rude one, and in summer frequently filled with water from the surface and
the hill above the house, making it not altogether wholesome at times, but by management, it
was still being used for some things, and of course, in cold weather, it made no difference,
for everything was solidly frozen.

Snow enough had fallen by this time, a little coming quietly down every few hours, to make
fair roads for the sleds, the ground being quite hard; while Fish River and adjoining creeks
were fast freezing over, as were also the waters of the bay.

In the evening Mr. H. came in, and we all gathered in the sitting room, some sewing, some mending,
but all chatting pleasantly. The missionary had just been informed, he told us, of a gold strike
on the Kuskokquim River, some one having only recently returned from St. Michael, and brought
the report. From that place men were leaving for the new diggings each day, and it might or
might not prove a bona fide strike. With reindeer, on a good winter trail, this distance would
not be a formidable trip, Mr. H. told us.

This was the information we wanted to hear, and it probably started a train of golden dreams
that night in more than one head, which was long in stopping, especially when he informed us
that every acre of land around us was then staked out in quartz claims, though no extensive
prospecting had yet been done, and we were pleased at finding ourselves "so near" even though
we were "yet so far."

Today was a birthday for Mr. G., and he was teased unmercifully for his age, but would not
give it, so those who had known him the longest tried their best to figure it out from incidents
in his life and from narratives of his own, and made it out to their satisfaction as about
thirty-two years, though he refused (like a woman) to the very last, to tell them if they were
guessing correctly.

The next day it still snowed a little at intervals between clouds and sunshine, and all "tenderfeet"
were more comfortable indoors. Miss E. and Ricka had gone the day before with the boys and
Mr. H. to the Home on a scow-load of lumber, though we feared it was pretty cold for them without
shelter on the water; but with the wind in the right direction, they wanted to attempt it,
and so started. They were to look the new building over for the first time, Miss E. being much
interested in the inside arrangement of rooms, naturally, as it was to be her home and field
of labor, and rightly thinking a womanly suggestion, perhaps, might make the kitchens more handy.

In their absence the rest of us continued our sewing, Miss L. taking Miss E.'s place in the
kitchen, with help from the larger Eskimo girls at dish washing. The latter were docile and
smiling, and one little girl called Ellen was always exceedingly careful to put each cup and
saucer, spoon and dish in its proper place after drying it, showing a commendable systematic
instinct, which Miss E. was trying to foster.

Between times, their school not yet being in session, they played about, either up in their
rooms if it was too stormy outside, or out of doors if the weather permitted; though, for that
matter, they seldom hesitated to do anything they wished on account of the weather, as it was
not so cold to the natives as to us. They played with balls, both large and small, and sleds
of all descriptions; and if the latter were not to be had, or all in use, a barrel stave or
board would be made to answer the same purpose. It was a rush past the window down the hill,
first by a pair of muckluked feet, then a barrel stave and a boy, sometimes little Pete, and
sometimes John. One barrel stave would hold only one coaster, and there were usually enough
for the boys, but if by chance the little girls laid hands upon the sleds before they did,
the staves were then their only resource. If a child rolled, by accident, upon the ground,
it never seemed to matter, for in furs he was well protected. The snow was soft, and he, being
as much at home there as anywhere, seemed rather to like it.

If he was seen to fall, it was the signal for some other to roll and tumble him, keeping him
under as long as possible, and it was a frequent sight to see three or four small boys tumbling
about like kittens, locked in each other's arms, and all kicking and shouting good-naturedly.
Snowballing, too, was their delight, and their balls were not always velvety, either, as the
one stopping its course could affirm.

These children did little quarreling. I cannot remember seeing Eskimo boys angry or fighting,
a thing quite noticeable among them, for nowhere in the world, perhaps, could the same number
of white children be found living so quietly and harmoniously together as did these twelve
little dark-faced Eskimos in the Mission.

Our days were now growing much shorter, and it was necessary to light the lamps at four o'clock
in the afternoon, the sun having set some time before. The sunset skies were lovely in bright
and tender colors, reflecting themselves as they did in the water of the bay, and tinting delicately
all surrounding hilltops. What a beautiful sight it was, and how sadly we remembered that very
soon the water would have disappeared under the solid ice, there to remain for long months
imprisoned. Little did we then know that the heavenly beauty of the Arctic sky is never lacking,
but close upon the departure of one season, another, no less beautiful, takes its place.

Diary of October twenty-sixth: Alma and I called today upon two neighbors in the old schoolhouse
next the church, by name Dr. H. and wife. They claim to have come from Dawson not very long
ago, being shipwrecked on the way, and losing their outfit. She seems a chatty, pleasant little
body, and inclined to make the best of everything, her hard lot included, and she is baking
and selling bread to the miners. She is a brave little woman, and could teach many a pampered
and helpless one lessons of great usefulness and patience. Miss L. is ill with quincy and suffering
very much, so Alma makes the bread.

I have just made four large aprons for Miss J., cutting them out and making them, and they
look really well, so I am quite proud of myself, especially as Ricka has "set up" my knitting
on needles for me, and I am going to make some hose. I usually knit evenings, between times
at the organ, for my new yarn received from San Francisco is very nice, and will make warm
winter stockings.

Saturday, October twenty-seventh: We have four inches of snow on the ground, and more coming.
Miss L. is quite ill with her throat, and did not get up today. Alma, too, is very pouty, with
a swollen, pudgy face, and feels badly. They both say they think they took cold coming from
Nome on the "Elk," and I don't doubt it, for I would have done so myself only for my great
caution in taking care of my newly shingled head and in applying a thorough dose of fur muckluks
to my feet, but, thanks to them, I am the most "chipper" one at present.

Miss J. had Dr. H. examine Bessie today, and he says she has bronchitis, but told the teacher
what to do for her.

The two girls came back from the Home with Mr. H. and Mr. L. about four o'clock after we had
begun to be worried about them. They were hungry, and Alma and I got dinner for them, when
Mr. H. started back immediately in a small boat alone, after it had begun to grow dark. We
begged him not to attempt it, but he insisted on going, as he must be there tomorrow to push
the work on the building, and the ice is floating, so he fears it will freeze the bay over.
The sun shone out beautifully for three or four hours, and it is just one week today since
we landed in Golovin, a most pleasant week to us all (pattern making not included).

Later.--I helped with the housework and made two more aprons for Miss J. There is nothing like
feeling of some use in the world, is there?

Sunday, October twenty-eight: A clear, bright morning, growing cloudy about noon, and dark
at four in the afternoon, when lamps were lighted. We had a long, restful day indoors, both
Miss E. and Ricka being very lame from their long walk of fifteen miles over the stony beach
and tundra covered hills from the Home, Mr. H.'s boat being too small for four persons. By
water the distance is called a dozen miles, but by land and on foot it is much farther, as
the girls have found by sad experience; and they were very glad it was Sunday, and they could
rest. Miss E. said laughingly that we would play we were at home in the States again, and so
she spread the breakfast table daintily in the sitting-room, with white cover, pretty embroidered
centre-piece, and snowy napkins, bringing real comfort to our hearts, accustomed as we had
been for so many months to bare necessities and none of the luxuries. A fashionable breakfast
hour for Sunday in the States was also affected in order to make the plan complete, and because
the mornings, growing darker as they are continually doing, nobody felt in haste to leave their
beds. Of course every one wore his Sunday clothes and I put on my very best waist of olive
green satin with a good black skirt, which had a little train, thereby effectively hiding my
uncouth feet, still clad as they are in the ungainly muckluks.

The ice is moving in the bay, and we hear that still another steamer may come in, so we can
send mail out to Nome, and write to have in readiness. There have been no church services today,
as Mr. H. is away at the Home, but we had music and singing frequently, and Swedish hymns all
evening, which I play, but do not understand.

Monday, October twenty-ninth: This has been a bright, sunny morning until a little after noon,
when it grew cloudy, as it often does. Miss E. was still very lame from her long tramp of last
Saturday, and Ricka and I assisted in the kitchen. Alma has cut out a pretty brown cloth dress
for Miss J. and is making it. Miss L.'s throat is better, and she is out of her room again,
after a siege of severe suffering with quinsy, which caused a gathering. About nine in the
evening Mr. H. came in from the Home, having walked the whole distance, a boat being now unsafe
in the floating ice. After drinking some hot coffee, he related to us his adventure of Friday
night in the Peterborough canoe. He had left us quite late in the afternoon of that day to
go to the Home, and it was already beginning to grow dark. For a while, he said, he found open
water, and made good time at the paddle, but presently found himself alongside of and soon
after crowded by floating ice.

It was young ice, and he did not have much fear of it. He kept on paddling, but finally found
himself entirely surrounded, and manage as he would, he could not free his canoe. A breeze
came up from the north, which pushed him along with the ice out toward sea, for he was near
the mouth of the bay. There was nothing to do but wait. For an hour he waited.

It was well on towards midnight, and he could see no escape. The missionary, in relating the
incident to us, did not dwell upon this part of his story, but he said he had given himself
up for lost, and only prayed and waited. By and by the breeze died away, the ice quietly parted,
and drifted away from him, and he paddled safely ashore.

Tuesday, October thirty: A brand new experience today--that of watching the natives and others
fish through the ice. Little holes are made in the ice, which is now quite strong in the north
end of the bay near the cliff, and the Eskimos sit there patiently for hours, fishing for tom-cod.
These are small fish, but quite tasty, one of the principal means of subsistence for the natives,
and are also much used by others. No pole is needed on the line except a short one of three
or four feet, and when a bite is felt by the fisherman, the line is quickly drawn out, given
a sudden twitch, which frees the tom-cod, and he is summarily dispatched with a few raps from
the fishing stick kept at hand for the purpose.

Several river boats, including small steamers, are laid up under the cliff for the winter,
dismantled of loose gear and light machinery, and I did get a few views which should prove
of some value. The weather was good all day, the sun setting at three in the afternoon, and
it being nearly dark an hour later. Mr. H. dressed himself from top to toe in furs, hitched
three dogs to a sled, took a lunch for himself, a few supplies of eatables for the Home camp
to which he was going, and started out, on a longer, but we trusted a less venturesome and
dangerous route than by Peterborough canoe. Our evening was pleasantly, and at the same time
more or less profitably spent by our party in the sitting-room, Alma sewing on Miss J.'s new
dress, Ricka and I knitting, and the others either mending or busying themselves at something.
This something frequently covers a good deal of ground, for with one or two of the boys it
means pranks or roguishness of some sort, which really enlivens the whole household and keeps
our risibles from growing rusty by disuse.

Wednesday, October thirty-one: I find no difficulty in running the sewing machine here, which
is a new and good one, and I like to use it very well. Just how they could get along without
it is more than I can tell, with so much sewing to do for each of the children, not to mention
the others who are waiting to come into the Mission at the earliest possible moment. During
the day Mr. L. busied himself usefully in several ways as he always does, and finally mended
Miss J.'s guitar. After supper we counted ourselves and found six women and a lot of children,
but he was the only man in the establishment, the others being at the Home, and we hazed him
considerably, all of which was taken most good-naturedly. The bay is freezing more and more
each day, with an increasing depth of snow upon the ground.

A very unpleasant day as to weather was Friday, November second. Snow, high tide, and wind
from the south, which blew the water further yet upon the beach; but we sewed all day, though
I did not get much accomplished. I gave Miss E. her first lesson on the organ today. Alma is
making herself a new dress skirt, as she has Miss J.'s wool dress nearly finished, and it looks
exceedingly well, fitting, as some one remarks, "like the paper on the wall." Alma likes dressmaking,
and does it well, but draws the line at baby clothes.

Each day Miss J., the teacher, is now holding a little prayer meeting in the kitchen for the
natives. When the supper is cleared away, one of the boys goes out and rings the bell, which
is only a big, iron triangle hung under three posts in the ground. A piece of iron is picked
up and put through the triangle, hitting it on both sides, and making a ringing, vibrating
sound which calls in the natives, who come immediately, just as they are, and range themselves
on the benches along the walls. Those who can sing sit at the long table upon which are the
lamps and English song books, those used being principally Gospel songs. One of the grown boys
called Ivan is a very fair singer, and loves music of all kinds. He is the interpreter for
all meetings, understanding English and speaking it quite well. None of the Eskimos are taught
Swedish--nothing but English.

Miss J. reads a song which she wishes them to learn, and Ivan interprets it into Eskimo, verse
by verse, afterwards singing it. Tunes are learned more quickly than words, but they get the
meaning from Ivan. Then Miss J. reads the Scripture, Ivan interpreting verse by verse. She
next offers prayer in English, and calls upon some older native Christian to pray in his language,
after which they sing several songs with which they are familiar. Having selected beforehand
some passage from the Bible, she reads and expounds that, being interpreted by Ivan; there
is a short benediction and the meeting is over. They seem to like very well to come, and are
never eager to go, but say little, not being great talkers, even in their own tongue.

When the last Eskimo has departed, and the children are settled in bed, the cozy hour of the
day has arrived. For a good, old-fashioned tale of love, fright and adventure, there is no
time like a winter's night, when the wind shrieks down the chimney and whirling snow cuddles
into corners and crannies. When supper is over, and the kitchen is well cleared, the women
of the house may take their yarn and bright needles, while the men toast their feet at the
fire and spin--other yarns, without needles, which are, perhaps, not so essential, but far
more entertaining to listeners.

This is what we did that winter at Chinik, the home of the Eskimo, in that far away spot near
the Arctic Sea. There were tales of the Norsemen and Vikings, told by their hardy descendants
sitting beside us, as well as the stories of Ituk and Moses, the aged, called "Uncle," Punni
Churah, big Koki, and "Lowri."

To the verity of the following narrative all these and many others can willingly vouch.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE RETIRED SEA CAPTAIN.

Many years ago, close under the shadow of old Plymouth Rock, there was born one day a fair-skinned,
blue-eyed baby. Whether from heredity, or environment, or both, the reason of his spirit will
perhaps never plainly appear, but as the child grew into manhood he seemed filled with the
same adventurous aspirations which had actuated his forefathers, causing them to leave their
homes in old England, and come to foreign shores. Scarcely had he passed into his teens before
he was devouring tales of pirates, and kindred old sea yarns, and his heart was fired with
ambition to own a vessel and sail the high seas. Not that he thirsted for a pirate's life,
but a seafaring man's adventures he longed for and decided he must have.

Under these conditions a close application at his desk in the village school was an unheard-of
consequence; and, having repeatedly smarted under the schoolmaster's ferule, not to mention
his good mother's switches plucked from the big lilac bush by her door, he decided to run away
to the great harbor, and ship upon some vessel bound for a foreign land.

This he did. Then followed the usual hard, rough life of a boy among sailors in distant ports;
the knotted rope's end, the lip blackening language and curses, storms, shipwrecks and misfortunes;
all followed as a part of the life so hastily chosen by the adventurous young lad, until he
acquired familiarity with all that appertained thereto, and he was a man.

Years passed. To say that fortune never came to him would not be true, because she is always
a fickle dame, and cannot change her character for sailor men. So it came about that he finally
stood on the captain's bridge of different sorts of craft, and gave orders to those beneath him.

And a typical sea captain was he. Gruff when occasion required, rollicking as any when it pleased
him, he was generous to a fault, and a man of naturally good impulses. If he drank, he was
never tipsy; if he swore, he always had reason; and thus he excused himself when he thought
of his good old mother's early Bible teaching.

From Montevideo to Canton, from Gibraltar to San Francisco, from Cape of Good Hope to the Arctic
Ocean; thus ran his itinerary year after year. Crossing Behring Strait from Siberia in the
summer of 18--, he landed, with his little crew, at Cape Prince of Wales, for the purpose of
trading with the natives. The furs of the animals of this region were found to be exceptionally
fine, thick and glossy, and the Eskimos easily parted with them. For flour, tobacco and woolen
cloth they willingly gave their furs to the sailors, who looked admiringly upon the skins of
the polar bear, sea otter, beaver, silver, black and white fox, as well as those of many other
animals. These furs were sold in San Francisco, and other trips were made to the Arctic Northwest.

Along the south coast of the Seward Peninsula there are few bays or natural harbors. Golovin
Bay is one of them. Here for many years the Eskimos have subsisted upon the fine fish and game.
The flesh and oils of the white whale, seal and walrus being principally sought for, the natives
came to this bay from all directions.

After many years of wandering, and when the ambitions of the captain for a seafaring life had
been satisfied, an incident occurred which changed the current of his life and decided him
to settle permanently at Golovin Bay.

During his visits on the peninsula his attention had been directed to a bright and intelligent
young Eskimo woman, lithe and lively, a good swimmer, trapper and hunter. Like a typical Indian,
she had a clear, keen eye, steady nerves and common sense. She was a good gunner and seldom
missed her mark. She was fearless on land or sea, loved her free out-door life, and was a true
child of nature. Her name was Mollie.

One day in the early springtime, nearly a dozen years ago, when the winter's ice was still
imprisoned in the bays and sounds of Behring Sea, though the warm sun had for weeks been shining
and already seams appeared upon the ice in many places, the captain attempted the trip by dog-team
from St. Michael to Golovin Bay. With him were four trusty natives, and three dog-teams, the
animals being of the hardy Eskimo breed, and well-nigh impervious to cold, their long, thick
hair making an effective protection.

His men were experienced, knowing the country perfectly, including a knowledge of winter trails
and methods of traveling such as all Eskimos possess, and though the weather was not just what
the captain might have wished, he decided to make the start, and left St. Michael in good shape
for the long trip. The strong sleds with high-back handle bar and railed sides were firmly
packed with freight, which was securely lashed down. The dogs were driven in pairs, eleven
to a sled, the eleventh being in each case a fine leader and called such, besides having his
own Eskimo name, as did also the four men who were warmly dressed in furs from head to foot.
These natives were familiar with little English, but as the captain had made himself acquainted
with their language they had no difficulty in making each other understood.

Early in the evening of that day they reached the Mission station of Unalaklik, on the mainland,
about fifty miles northeast of the island, where they spent the night. In this settlement were
white traders, as well as missionaries and numbers of Eskimos, it being an old port of considerable
importance.

In the cold grey morning light Punni Churah and the men called to the malemutes, patting their
furry heads and talking kindly to them, for many a weary, long mile of snow trail stretched
northward for them that day before they could rest and eat. Only at night, when their day's
work was done, were these faithful creatures ever fed on seal, fish, whale, or walrus meat,
for otherwise they would be drowsy, and not willing to travel; so they were called early from
their snow beds in a drift or hollow, where they liked best to sleep, and made ready for the start.

Dressed in their squirrel skin parkies, with wide-bordered hoods upon their heads, reindeer
muckluks on their feet and mittens of skin upon their hands, stood Ah Chugor Ruk, Ung Kah Ah
Ruk, Iamkiluk and Punni Churah, long lashed whips in hand, and waiting.

On one of the sleds, dressed and enveloped in furs, sat the captain, before giving the order
to start. At the word from him, the dogs sprang to their collars, the little bells jingled,
and away they all dashed. Team after team, over the well-trodden trail they went, keeping up
a continuous and sprightly trot for hours, while behind at the handle bars ran the natives,
and rocks, hills and mountains were passed all unnoticed.

That night another Eskimo village was reached, and sixty miles of snow trail were left behind.
Shaktolik lay on the shore southeast of a portage which would have to be made over a small
point of land jutting out into Norton Bay.

During the night a storm came up which would necessarily much impede their progress, being
called in the western world a "blizzard." This storm fiend, once met, is never forgotten. None
but the man in the Arctic has seen him. None know so well how to elude him. Like a Peele, or
a "tremblor" this Arctic king gathers his forces, more mighty than armies in battle, and sweeps
all opponents before him. To resist means death. To crouch, cower or bow down to this implacable
lord of the polar world is the only way to evade his wrath when he rides abroad, and woe to
the man who thinks otherwise.

Not long had the wind and snow been blowing when the little train prepared to move. Ahead they
could see the sled tracks of other "mushers" (travelers by dog-team), and the captain concluded
to hurry along, notwithstanding that Ah Chugor Ruk shook his head, and spat tobacco juice upon
the ground, and Ung Kah Ah Ruk demurred stoutly in few words. Punni Churah thought as the rest,
but would go ahead if the captain so ordered, and they headed northwest for the portage.

On the dogs trotted for hours. The snow and sleet were blinding, the wind had risen to a gale.
The dogs traveled less rapidly now, and their faces were covered with frost, the moisture freezing
as they breathed.

By this time the natives wanted to camp where they were, or head about northeast for another
Eskimo village called Ungaliktulik, which would make the journey longer by twenty-five miles,
but the captain decided to keep on as they were going.

By the middle of the afternoon the gale had increased to fury, causing the thermometer to fall
with great rapidity, while the snow was blinding. The dogs were curling up in the wind like
leaves before a blaze.

Ah Chugor Ruk was ahead with his team. His leader suddenly halted.

"Muk-a-muk!" cried the Eskimo.

"Muk!" echoed Punni Churah, running up alongside to look, and then back to the captain's sled,
where he shouted something loudly in order to be heard above the storm.

An ice crack crossed their trail. There was no help for it. There it lay, dark and cold--the
dreaded water.

In the blinding blizzard they could not see the width of the chasm. It was too wide for them
to bridge; it was death to remain where they were--they must turn back, and they did so. The
wind was not now in their faces as before, which made traveling some easier, but they had not
gone far when: "Muk-a-muk!" from Punni this time, who was ahead.

Again the dogs stopped. Again Punni Churah came back, and reported.

They were adrift on a cake of ice. Wind from the northeast was blowing a hurricane, carrying
them on their ice cake directly out to sea; but the snow was drifting in hummocks, and in one
of them the natives began digging a hole for a hut. When this was of sufficient size, they
pitched a sled cover of canvas over it, made the sleighs fast outside, and crawled underneath.
Once inside their temporary igloo, they made a fire of white drilling and bacon, taken from
the sled loads of merchandise; melted snow for water, and boiled coffee, being nearly famished.
Then for hours they all slept heavily, the dogs being huddled together in the snow, as is their
habit, but the blizzard raged frightfully, and drove the dogs nearer the men in the hut.

Crawling upon the canvas for more warmth, the poor, freezing creatures, struggling for shelter,
with the weight of their bodies caused the hut to collapse, and all fell, in one writhing heap,
upon the heads of the unfortunates below. Howling, barking, struggling to free themselves from
the tangle, the pack of brutes added torment to the lot of the men; but the storm raged with
such terrific force that all lay as they fell, until morning, under the snow.

None now disputed the storm king's sway. All were laid low before him. With the united fury
of fiends of Hades, he laughed in demoniacal glee at the desperation of the Arctic travelers
under his heel. The whole world was now his. Far from the icy and unknown wastes of the interior,
around the great Circle and Rockies, riding above the heads of rivers and mountains, he came
from the Koyuk and Koyukuk. Like a child at play, as if weary of so long holding them in his
cold embrace, he drove the massive ice floes out into ocean, only, perhaps, in childish fitfulness,
to bring them back directly, by gales quite contrary.

When morning dawned, the captain and his men crawled out of the crushed snow hut, and, with
hard work, made a new cave in the snow drift, burying the sleighs in the old one. The dogs
were starving, and, to appease their appetites, were purloining bacon from the sled's stores;
but Providence, for once, was kind to them, and a large, fat seal of several hundred pounds
weight was shot that day on the edge of the ice cake upon which they were camped, and this
gave them food and fuel. Dogs and natives were then well fed on the fresh seal meat and blubber,
their natural and favorite viands. From tin dishes upon the sleds, the natives made little
stoves, or lamps, using drilling for wicks, seal oil for fuel, and their coffee was made. Among
the stores on the sleds were canned goods, beans, sausages, flour and other things, and on
these the captain subsisted.

Day after day passed. The storm gradually died away, and the sun came out. Then watches were
set to keep a lookout, and the captain took his turn with his men. Walking about in the cold
morning air, he could see the mainland to the northwest, many miles away, and his heart sank
within him. Would he ever put his foot upon that shore again? How long could they live on the
ice cake if they floated far out in the Behring Sea? To him the outlook was growing darker
each day, though the natives seemed not to be troubled.

Nearly two weeks passed. One night the captain was awakened by a hand on his shoulder. It was
Ung Kah Ah Ruk. The wind, he said, was blowing steadily from the southwest, and if it continued
they might be able to reach the shore ice and the mainland. Anxiously together then they watched
and waited for long, weary hours, getting the sleds loaded, and in readiness for a start; then,
with bitterest disappointment, they found the wind again changed to the southwest, which would
carry them out to sea as before.

What were they to do? This might be their best and only chance to escape. The shore ice lay
near them, but, as yet, beyond their reach. This treacherous wind might continue for days and
even weeks. From experience they knew that the wind blew where he listed, regardless of the
forlorn creatures under him, and with the thermometer at forty degrees below zero, as it was,
swimming was out of the question. The crack appeared a dozen or so feet in width, and escape
was only possible by reaching the other side.

Their strait was a desperate one. The captain decided to make the leap. Removing his furs,
he rolled them tightly, and threw them across the chasm. It was now a positive dash for life,
as without his furs he would soon perish with the cold.

He made the run and leaped. At that instant one of the natives, from intense interest, or from
a desire to assist, gave a loud Eskimo whoop, which startled the captain, and he missed his
footing, falling forward upon the ice, but with his lower limbs in the water.

The natives now bestirred themselves and threw to the captain a large hunting knife and rifle,
attached to their long sled lashings. With a good deal of exertion, the captain crawled upon
the ice, and with the knife he chopped a hole, and inserted the rifle barrel, fastening the
lashings to it and holding it firmly in place. The natives then pulled with united strength
on the line, bringing the ice cake slowly up toward the captain until within a few feet of
the shore ice, when, using a sled for a bridge, they and the dogs crossed safely over, without
so much as wetting their feet. To all, this was a matter for great rejoicing, and no regretful
farewells were given to the ice floe which had been their prison house so long. They were not
yet out of danger, however, for the shore ice upon which they stood might, in the gale, at
any moment be loosened and carry them, like the other, out into the ocean. So with all haste
possible, they proceeded to get away. Punni Churah brought the captain's fur sleeping bag and
robes, in which he was stowed away in one of the sleds, though his wet clothing was now frozen.
There was no time nor place to make a change, with the thermometer nearly forty degrees below zero.

Hours afterward they reached the mainland. How good once more to step foot on terra firma!
The dogs barked, and the natives hallooed cheerfully to each other, for they were now going
home. A deserted native village was soon entered, an igloo in passable condition taken possession
of, and the dogs tied up for the night.

The natives now worked rapidly and cheerfully, two putting up their camp stove, another bringing
snow for water with which to make the coffee, and Punni Churah looking after the captain, who
tried to remove his clothing, but to no purpose. Muckluks and trousers were frozen together,
and as fast as the ice melted sufficiently they were cut away. Contrary to his expectations,
he was not severely frozen, a white patch, the size of his hand, appearing upon each limb above
the knee. With these they did the best they could, and dry clothing from the sleds was put on.

Their supper that night was a feast of rejoicing. They were now on the home trail, and would
soon be among friends. One more day of travel and their long, hazardous, and eventful trip
of two hundred miles over an Arctic waste would be successfully accomplished. As they rolled
themselves in their furs at midnight for a few hours of needed rest and sleep, they could almost
fancy themselves at home again and happy. The dogs huddled in the snow outside, now and then
barking in their usual way, but the tired men in the igloo did not hear them, for their sleep
was oblivion, after the strain of the last two weeks.

Next morning, after traveling for several hours, a halt was made, and a lunch was taken in
an Eskimo camp; but the captain, by this time, was suffering from exposure and frosted limbs,
the trail was bad, and he concluded to hurry on ahead of the teams. The way was familiar, and
only one low mountain, called the Portage, was to be crossed. It was early in the day, and
his teams would follow immediately; so on his snowshoes the captain hastened toward home.

God help the man who travels alone in the Arctic in winter! Little matters it if the sun shines
brightly at starting, and the sky appears clear as a summer pool. In one short hour the aspect
of all may be changed, heavens overcast, snow flying, and wind rapidly driving. Under the gathering
darkness and whirling snowflakes the narrow trail is soon obscured, or entirely obliterated,
the icy wind congeals the traveler's breath and courage simultaneously, he becomes confused
and goes round and round in a circle, until, benumbed by the frost, he sinks down to die. This
was what now happened to the captain.

Another storm was upon him when he reached the hill portage, and as he expected his natives
momentarily, and beyond this point the trail was good, so that he could ride behind the dogs,
he waited until they should come up to him. Hour after hour he waited. Night came on, and the
blizzard increased in severity. Hungry, cold and already frost-bitten, he must spend the night
on the mountain alone. Still he listened for the bells on the malemutes, and the calls of his
Eskimo drivers.

They did not come. Nothing but snow, and the shriek of that storm king whose rage he had so
recently encountered while drifting to sea on the ice floe, and from whom only cruelty was
ever expected, now whistled in his ears.

He knew he must keep on walking, so removing his snowshoes he stuck one in the snow drift and
fastened a seal rope at the top. Taking the end of this in his hand, he circled round and round
for hours to keep himself moving. At last he grew weary, and closed his eyes, still walking
as before. It was more pleasant to keep his eyes closed, for then he saw visions of bright,
warm rooms, blazing fires and cozy couches, and smelled the odors of appetizing foods. There
were flowers, sweet music and children, and he was again in far-off sunny lands.

He grew drowsy. He would only rest a little in a soft white drift, and then go on again. Making
a place in the bank with the snowshoe, while the wind whistled horribly and the whirling snow
bewildered him, he lay down to----

Some men, one night, drove their dog-teams into Chinik. They had come from St. Michael, two
hundred miles over the trail. They said the captain and his party left there many days before
them, and by this they were surely dead, unless drifted out to sea, which really meant the
same thing, as no man could live upon the ice during the recent great blizzard. An Eskimo woman
heard what they said. She was a cousin to Punni Churah, but she said nothing.

An hour later, the woman and two men with dogs and sleds left Chinik for the Portage, going
east. It was storming, but it was not dark, and they knew each foot of the way. At first, on
the level, the woman rode in one of the sleds, but when it grew hilly, she trudged behind.
Her sharp eyes now keenly searched every dark or obscure spot along the hillside trail. The
wind lessened somewhat, and the moon came out behind the clouds.

The dogs finally stopped, throwing back their heads and howling; then, in more excitement,
gave the short, quick bark of the chase.

The natives began poking about with sticks in the drifts, and Mollie (for it was she) soon
found the unconscious man in the snow.

Quick work then they made of the return trip. They were only a few miles from home now, and
the malemutes seemed to comprehend. Every nerve in their bodies tingled. Every tiny bell on
their harnesses jingled, and the fleet-footed natives sped rapidly behind. The dogs needed
no guidance, for they were going home, and well knew it. The voice of big Ituk, as he gave
out his Eskimo calls, the sleigh-bells, and the creak of the sled runners over the frosty snow,
were the only sounds heard on the clear morning air.

The life of the captain was saved.

The sequel of his story is not long. With the best care known to a native woman, brought up
near and inside a Mission station, the captain was tended and brought back to life, though
weeks passed before he was well. In fact, he was never strong again, and, needing a life-long
nurse, decided, with Mollie's consent, to take her for his wife, and so the missionary married
them. Then they settled permanently at Golovin Bay, where a trading post was already established,
and where they are living happily to this day.

CHAPTER XVII.

HOW THE LONG DAYS PASSED.

On Saturday, November third, began a great sewing of fur caps, children's clothes, and also
garments for the teacher. For the caps, a pattern had to be made before beginning, but Alma
and not I did it. About four in the afternoon Mr. H., Mr. G. and Mr. B. came in from the Home,
having worked all day at collecting driftwood as they came along, piling it upon end so it
will not be buried in the snow, for that is the only fuel we will have this winter, and it
must be gathered and hauled by the boys.

While in the sitting room after supper three gentlemen and the wife of one of them called to
spend the evening from the A. E. Company's establishment. One was the manager and head of the
company's store here, another was his clerk, and the man and his wife were neighbors.

We soon found out that the young clerk had been up the Koyuk River prospecting, and wanted
to go again. The boys want to go there themselves, and we gathered considerable information
from our callers regarding the country, manner of getting there, the best route, etc., and
spent a pleasant evening, as they seemed also to do.

Sunday, November fourth, was marked as the first time of holding church service in the schoolhouse
since our arrival, and a good number were present. Twenty-two Eskimos and ten white people
made a cozy little audience for Mr. H. and his interpreter, Ivan. I played the organ, and they
all sang from Gospel songs. For some reason a lump would come up in my throat when I played
the old home songs that I had so many times played under widely differing circumstances, thousands
of miles away; but under the current of sadness there was one also of thanksgiving for protection
and guidance all the way.

It was a motley crowd listening to the preacher that day, from various and widely separated
countries, Sweden, Norway, Finland, United States, Alaska and possibly some others, were represented
at this service as well as at the one of the evening held in the Mission House which needed
no extra lights nor warming. A few more natives came in at this time, and Mollie, the captain's
wife, was there with her mother. Again I played the instrument, while the rest sang. The little
sitting-room and hall were crowded, seats having been brought in from the kitchen, and some
were standing at the doors. One old Eskimo woman seemed in deep trouble, for she wiped her
eyes a great deal, and she, with some others, were very dirty, at least if odors tell stories
without lying.

Monday, November fifth: This has been a fine day, and brought with it a new lot of experiences.
I took a few kodak views of a dog-team and fur-dressed people in front of the Mission. After
supper four neighbors came (the same who called on us the other evening) with their horse to
take us out for a moonlight ride, and it proved a very novel one. A big, grey horse, with long
legs supporting his great hulk, and carrying him away up above us as we sat on the sled; the
conveyance, a home-made "bob" sled upon which had been placed rough boards piled with hay and
fur robes for the comfort of passengers, and the harness home-made like the "rig," was ingeniously
constructed of odds and ends of old rope of different colors which the men assured us, when
interrogated upon the point, were perfectly strong and secure.

In it were knots, loops, twists, and coils, with traces spliced at great length in order to
keep us clear of the horse's heels, but which frequently got him entangled, so that he had
to be released by the footman (the clerk). When this occurred, the latter, with an Indian war-whoop,
leaped off the sledge, flourished and cracked his big "black snake" whip in air to encourage
the animal to run faster, and I, sitting with the driver on the front seat, gripped for dear
life the board upon which I sat. No Jehu, I feel sure, ever drove as did our driver tonight,
assisted by the whooping footman with his black snake. Through drifts and over the pond, which
was frozen, down steep banks to the beach, through snow deep and still deeper, helter-skelter
they drove, skurrying, shouting, urging the poor beast on until he was wild of eye, short of
breath, weary in limb, and reeking.

Overhead the air was clear as crystal, stars bright, and a perfect full moon shining with brilliant
whiteness over all. Only the jingle of the bells upon the horse, the shrieks of our footman
and driver, and the laughter of the passengers on the "bob" broke the stillness of the quiet,
frosty air, which, in its intense purity and lightness seemed fairly to vibrate with electricity
as we breathed.

November sixth: I have spent the day at making a warm winter hood for myself. Finding that
Mr. H. had grey squirrel skins, I bought six of him for twenty-five cents apiece, for a lining
for hood and mittens. The hood I made pretty large every way, sewing two red fox tails around
the face for a border to keep the wind off my face, as is the Eskimo fashion.

During the day G. and B. went out over the beach to collect driftwood for winter, and G. came
home finally without his companion. It was thought that B. went on to the Home, as he found
himself not so far from that as from the Mission, where he would probably remain all night,
and come over next day. Two natives, with as many reindeer and sleds, came for flour and other
things, taking Mr. H.'s trunk of clothing with them for the missionary. The little Eskimos
were delighted to see the deer, and ran out to them, petting and talking to them. Then they
rattled on among themselves about the animals, inspecting and feeling of their horns, patting
their fat sides, calling their names, and showing their pleasure at seeing the pretty creatures
in various ways. I did not know which were of most interest, the deer with long, branching
antlers, sleek spotted sides and funny heads, or the group of odd little Eskimo children, with
their plump dark faces, dressed in furry parkies and boots, tumbling gleefully around in the snow.

Wednesday, November seventh: The weather is beautifully clear and sunny today, with charming
sky effects at sunrise and sunset. Red, yellow and crimson lines stretched far along the eastern
horizon, cut by vertical ones of lighter tints, until a big golden ball climbed up higher,
and by his increased strength warmed the whole snowy landscape. A few hours later, this great
yellow ball, looking bright and clear-cut, like copper, sank gently beneath the long banks
of purple-red clouds massed in artistic and majestic confusion. Everything, at this time, was
enveloped in the cooler, quieter tints of purple and blue, and hills, peaks, and icy bay all
lay bathed in exquisite color.

The two Eskimos brought the reindeer back from the Home today, stopped for lunch, and then
went on their way to the herd again. Ricka, Alma and Miss J. went out as far as the cliff for
a ride on the sleds behind the deer, but I felt safer indoors. Ricka says when the animals
dashed over the big bank, out upon the ice near the cliff, she thought her last hour had come.
At first the deer trotted steadily along on the trail, but going faster and faster they rushed
headlong through the drifts, dragging the sleds on one runner, and tearing up the snow like
a blizzard as they went, until it seemed to the two girls, unused to such riding as they were,
that the animals were running away, and they would be certainly killed.

Miss J. was quite used to this kind of traveling, and made no outcry, but Alma and Ricka finally
got the natives to stop the deer and let them get off and walk home, saying it might be great
fun when one was accustomed to it.

The sleds used by the natives are called reindeer sleds because made especially for use when
driving deer. They are close to the ground, and very strongly built, as they could not otherwise
stand the wear and tear of such "rapid transit." Side rails are put on, but no high handle-bar
at the back, and when a load is placed upon the sled it is lashed securely on with ropes or
thongs made of seal or walrus hide; otherwise there would be no load before the journey was
completed.

Mr. H. says he has long experience with them, but never feels quite sure that an animal will
do what is wanted of him, though when driven by natives who are well used to their tricks and
antics, especially if the animals have reached mature age, they make good travelers, and get
over the ground very fast. A hundred miles a day is nothing to them if the snow is not too
deep and their load reasonable.

Men and dog-teams are coming into camp from Nome each day now, and say that the trails are
in first-class condition. We hope for mail soon from Nome. Mr. H. came, bringing with him a
Swedish preacher who is wintering here, though not officially connected with the Mission. He
is a sweet singer, liking well to accompany his Swedish songs upon the guitar or organ, for
he plays both instruments.

Mr. L. left at six in the morning for the Home, walked there and back, and arrived at six in
the evening. He went to ask Mr. H. if he and the others could have reindeer with which to go
to Koyuk River on a prospecting trip. He gave his consent and they think of starting next week.
They think there may be some good creek up there that would do to stake, and the clerk is going
with them.

We have jolly times each evening singing, visiting and knitting. My black stocking grows under
my needles a few inches each day, and will be warm and comfortable footwear under my muckluks
surely.

November eighth: Some ptarmigan were brought in today, which are the first birds of the kind
I have seen, and they are beautiful. They look like snow-white doves, only larger, with silky
feathers and lovely wings. They are soon to be cooked, for they are the Arctic winter birds
and make good eating. We are all blessed with ravenous appetites.

A man was killed with a club last night in a drunken brawl, in a hotel near by. He only lived
a few hours after getting hurt, but it is said that the other killed him in self defense. Both
the United States marshal and the commissioner were away at the time. It is a pity they were
not at home, for the affair, perhaps, would then have been prevented. There are probably not
more than one hundred white persons in the camp altogether, but there must be fully half as
many Eskimos, and they are always coming and going. There are several saloons (one kept by
a woman), a large hotel and one or two smaller ones, besides two or three company's stores
and a few log cabins and native huts, besides the Mission.

The boys want to get off as soon as possible for Koyuk, but fear they will have to go to Nome
for camp stoves and pipe, as there are none to buy here. They brought wood from the beach today
on the sleds, and there is no lack of fuel here, nor of strong, willing arms to gather it.
It seems a long, long time to wait without hearing from the home folks. I wonder how it seems
to them. I only wish they could see how comfortably and happily we are situated, and what jolly
times we have, for it would do their hearts good. Few are so favored in all Alaska, of that
I am certain.

Saturday, November tenth: I have sewed all day on a canvas coat for Mr. B., Alma helping with
the cutting. He wants it to put on over his fur parkie to keep the snow and rain off it, and
has himself made the loops and fastenings. He whittled out the buttons from small pieces of
wood, twisted cord to loop over them, and put them all firmly on the coat so that it looks
well, and will be serviceable. I put a good-sized hood of the same, with a fur border around
the face, on the coat, and it will be a good garment to hunt ptarmigan in, for it is the color
of snow, and the birds cannot see him.

The visiting preacher has had an experience in being in the water, and from it has contracted
rheumatism in one limb, which he is nursing, so he sits by the fire and plays and sings for
us while we sew. He is very pleasant, and all seem to like him. The weather is not cold and
Miss J. and Mr. H. started out with reindeer for the Home at seven in the morning. It was a
singular sight to see them when leaving. All the little natives in fur parkies stood around,
watching. The two sleds were loaded with baggage, and Miss J. sat on the top of one of them,
holding the rope that went under the body of the deer and around his Head and horns for a harness.
This deer was tied to the back of the sled in front of him, and Mr. H. went ahead having hold
of the rope that was fastened to the first deer.

Sunday, November eleventh: We are having a heavy and wet snow storm. All stayed in until three
in the afternoon, when we attended church service in the schoolhouse. I played the organ, the
Swedish preacher read the Scriptures, and Ivan interpreted. We sang hymns and songs, and the
hour was enjoyed by all, though the preacher did not feel quite well enough acquainted with
the English to preach in that tongue, and Mr. H. was away. There were about twenty natives
present, and ten or twelve white people, Miss E. remaining at home to get the dinner. I went
in thought over the great waters to my southern home, where today the churches are decorated
with palms and floral beauties, and I saw the friends in their accustomed seats--but I was
not there. Thousands of miles away to the frozen north we have come, and little do we know
if we shall ever see home again. Tears came to my eyes, but I kept them hidden, for none shall
say I am homesick; I am glad to be here. I have faith to believe that the Father's loving watch-care
will be still further extended, and I shall reach my homeland and friends some time in the future.

November thirteenth: Weather is warm, wet, and sunny. Water is running in the bay and snow
is soft under foot. I worked this afternoon on a mitten pattern for myself, assisted by Alma.
Evidently pattern making was intended for others to do, for though my spirit is as willing
as possible, the flesh is very weak in that direction; but I did finally get a mitten, thumb
and all, that looks not half bad. This was banner day for my laundry work, and my handkerchiefs
have been ironed for the first time since I sailed from San Francisco. Heretofore I was in
luck to get a time and place in which to wash them. At half-past four o'clock in the afternoon,
when it was too dark to sew longer, Alma, Ricka and I went out upon the beach to meet the boys
who had been gathering wood, and we walked a half mile over the rough trail of ice blocks,
drifts and hummocks.

We floundered on through all until we saw them coming, and then sat resting on some logs until
they came up. Two of Mr. H.'s dogs, Fido and Muckaleta, had followed us, and ran at our heels
playing in the snow, which was more than one foot deep in places. The boys had found a long
ladder on the beach, probably from some wreck, and they had brought it on the sled with the
wood. It was most difficult work hauling the sled over the uneven trail, and all were puffing
and perspiring when they reached home.

A little prayer meeting was afterwards held in the kitchen during which Mr. H. and Miss J.
came in from the Home with reindeer, tired and hungry. We spent a pleasant evening visiting,
singing and knitting.

A man has come from Nome, and says that the steamer bringing Mission supplies from San Francisco
was obliged during the last hard storm to throw some of its cargo overboard, and part of the
Mission's stores were thus lost. All are sorry to hear this, as it means a shortage of necessary
things, like furniture for the Home, where much is needed.

November fourteenth: Miss J. has taken in two more little Eskimos, a girl and a boy. First
of all, she cuts their hair close to their heads, then each has a good bath in the tub, and
they are dressed in clean clothing from head to foot, and fed plentifully. This was their program,
and they look very happy after it, and evidently feel as well and look better. This boy seems
to be about ten years old, and the girl a little older, but it is not customary among the Eskimos
to keep account of their ages, and so nobody really knows how old any one is.

Alma has cut over a big reindeer skin parkie for the visiting preacher, and a fur sleeping
bag for Miss J., while Ricka has made a fine cap for Mr. H. of dog's skin, lined with cloth.
This morning when the men went out to the hills where their two reindeer had been tied in the
moss, the animals were gone, and Ivan returned fearing that they had been stolen, but when
Mr. H., G. and B. went to look, they found no men's footprints, and concluded that they had
broken away and gone back to the herd, as their tracks went in that direction. Mr. H. went
on after them, and the two boys came home wet with perspiration from floundering about in the
deep, soft snow, and wearing their heavy rubber boots. I gave them coffee when they got back.

I have sewed on my new mittens, and done some knitting, besides tending the baby, who runs
quickly from one thing to another like any other mischievous child, getting into first one
thing, and then some other, which must be coaxed away from her by management. I usually do
this by giving her some new plaything, if I can possibly find any article she has never yet
had. A box of needles, buttons and thread she likes best of anything I have yet found, and
a grand reckoning day will come before long when Alma finds the little Eskimo has been amusing
herself with her property.

Mr. G. found a part of somebody's outfit, consisting of clothing and tin dishes, on the beach
today. Miss J. held a little meeting again in the kitchen for the natives after supper, and
is very happy over having the two new little Eskimos.

This is our fourth week in the Mission, and pleasant and happy ones they have been, at least,
if there have been vexations to some, they have succeeded admirably in keeping them out of sight.

November fifteenth: The weather is still warm, wet and slippery under foot. This morning a
young man called from Nome, with a letter from Mary, saying she is coming by dog-team as soon
as the trails are good.

The commissioner called today to get the preacher to officiate at the funeral of the man who
was killed, but it was postponed until tomorrow, because the grave could not be finished before
dark. The commissioner sat for half an hour, and chatted in the sitting room.

November sixteenth: All hands are at work now for the children, and overalls, waists and shirts
for the little boys as well as garments for the girls are on the docket. The big boys fished,
and got smelt and tom-cod. B. sewed at mittens for himself, and G. took the church organ to
pieces to clean and repair it. Mr. M., who has been at work on the Home, has come here to spend
the winter. I wish he would set to work and catch some of the mice which infest the house,
and run over me when I am asleep in the night time.

A meeting for the natives in the house again tonight, and the doors had to be left open on
account of the pungent seal oil perfume from the garments of the Eskimos.

The man who was killed was buried today in the edge of the little graveyard on the hillside.
The Swedish preacher was asked to go to the grave, and he did so, reading a Psalm, and offering
a prayer. Only four or five men were present. It is a stony, lonely place, without a tree in
sight; the few scattering graves having only wooden slabs for head boards. Being just above
the beach, the spot commands a view of the bay in front, but it is now all a snow and ice desert,
and the most dreary place imaginable. Very little was known of the murdered man, and no good
could be said of him, but it is supposed that he has a wife and children somewhere.

What a dreadful ending! Will his family ever know what has become of him, and is his mother
still living? If so, I hope they may never learn of his horrid death and worthless life in
Alaska. He was never conscious for a moment after being hurt, so they know nothing as to where
to write to his relatives. It makes one shudder to think of it! He may have been a good and
bright child, beloved by parents and brothers, but the drink curse claimed him for its own.

The weather is clear, with sunshine and frost. The visiting preacher has been making himself
useful for a few days by helping us in cutting out overalls and blouses for the Eskimo boys.
Down on his knees upon the floor, with shears, rolls of denim, and a pair of small trousers
to pattern by, he has wielded the little steel instrument to good purpose, and encouraged and
assisted us greatly.

With their new clothes, the children are all quite well pleased, for they are fresh and sweet.
The missionaries are trying very hard to teach them cleanliness among other things, and they
sometimes come and stand in the doorway and look at us sewing, their faces always good natured,
and showing more or less curiosity. When told to run away to play, they obey quickly, and little
Pete and the others like to keep the wood boxes filled to help us. The older girls being from
ten to twelve years of age, are often caring for and amusing Bessie, and she is fond of them,
until, like any other child, she cannot have her own way, and then she disapproves of them
by kicking and screaming till Miss J. comes to settle the business.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SWARMING.

Arctic explorers have always found it a difficult matter to keep pleasantly and profitably
employed during the long winter months, and I have often wondered how it would be with ourselves.
So far, there seems to be no scarcity of employment for all hands, neither is there any prospect
of it. For the men there is always the beach-wood to collect, haul and saw up into firewood,
not to mention the splitting with an axe, which is, I believe, as hard work as any of it, and
there is water to bring in barrels each day or two from Chinik Creek, a mile away, for drinking
and cooking purposes. The barrels are put upon sleds and hauled by the men themselves, or by
the dogs if they happen to be here, and are not at work. As to the reindeer, of course there
can be no such thing as making them haul either wood or water, for none could be found steady
enough, and should the experiment be tried, there are ten chances to one that not a stick of
wood would remain upon the sleds, nor a drop of water in the barrels, while the distance between
creek and Mission was being made.

Of course there is always enough for women to do if they are housekeeping, and with sewing,
knitting and what recreation we take out of doors, we fill in the time very well. It is much
better and pleasanter to be employed, and the time passes much more rapidly than when one is
idle, and I for one enjoy the change of work and the winter's outlook immensely. Compared to
what we have done in Nome during the summer, this is child's play, and the boys who have worked
at real mining say the same thing.

November seventeenth: We have had our first lady visitor today who came from White Mountain
about fifteen miles away. She is the lady doctor who brought Miss J. through typhoid fever
last fall, and is much at home here. She was sent for by a sick woman in the hotel, and will
spend the night with Miss J., who is very kind to her. The visiting preacher left for the Home
this morning very early, going with a native and reindeer. Mr. L. and B. were called in to
the jury trial of the murderer who killed the man in the hotel the other night, and they got
home late. The girls were out upon the ice in the evening for exercise, getting tired of being
indoors all day long, and needing fresh air. When all were in at half-past eleven in the evening,
coffee and crackers were taken by all but me, but I have had to leave off drinking coffee,
taking hot water with cream and sugar instead. B. says he thinks the latter too stimulating.

This has been a bright and cold Sunday for November eighteenth. Mr. H. walked in to nine o'clock
breakfast from the Home, coming by dog-team, and looked well dressed and smiling. No service
was held until evening, so we went out for a walk upon the hill behind the house. B. and L.
left us to go and examine some wood that natives were hauling away from the beach, thinking
it was some of theirs, for each stick is marked, so they know their own; but it proved not
to be their wood, and the two then came home another way.

While out, we walked through the small burial ground, and saw the new-made grave of the murdered
man. O, how desolate was that spot! A few mounds, stones, snow and bleak winds forever blowing.
Here we read a headboard, upon which was the name and age of good old Dr. Bingham of New England,
who died here years ago, and whose wife planted wild roses upon the grave. I wonder if we will
see them in bloom next summer, or will we be under the snow ourselves like these others.

For our dinner today we ate fried tom-cod, baked potatoes, tomatoes, pickles, bread and butter,
and rice pudding. I feel positive that nothing could have tasted better to our home folks in
the States who have more fruit and vegetables than did this plain and homely meal to us, eaten
with the heartiest appetites gotten out of doors while walking in the snow. The ice in the
bay is getting firmer, and will continue to grow thicker all winter, being in the spring at
breaking-up time many feet through, no doubt, as it was in Minnesota in the Red River of the
North when I lived there. I am glad that I am a cold climate creature, and was born in winter
in a wintry state, for I will be sure to endure Alaska weather better than I otherwise would.

This evening we had service again in the church or schoolhouse, and the room was quite filled.
The woman doctor was there, also the storekeeper and the United States Marshal, besides our
own family, and a good many natives. Mr. H. preached, and was interpreted in Eskimo as usual.
I wish some of my fastidious friends on the outside could have seen the cosmopolitan company
of tonight.

The refined and serious face of the storekeeper, the black-eyed doctor (woman), the fair-faced
Swedes, and the square-jawed, determined official, made a striking contrast to the Eskimos
dressed in fur parkies, and smelling of seal oil. Many of the latter continually carry small
children on their backs underneath their parkies, a heavy belt or girdle of some sort keeping
the youngster from falling to the ground, but the smaller ones are seldom brought out in the
evening. These women squat upon the floor as often as they sit upon a chair, and when a baby
cries from hunger he is promptly fed on ahmahmuk, (mother's milk,) regardless of the assembled
company. With an Eskimo mother nothing comes before the child's wishes, and if the latter only
succeeds in making his desires known to her, she will obey them to the letter. That there are
unruly Eskimo youngsters, goes without saying, as a child does not need a white skin to help
him understand this, and arrange his tactics accordingly.

The Mission is crowded to its utmost, but I believe the hearts of the good missionaries are
made of elastic.

When we reached the house after service this evening we heard that a mail was expected, and
would leave for Dawson tomorrow, so we set to work to write letters, and then found it all
a mistake, for it is only going to Nome from Unalaklik, and we were all disappointed.

The weather today, November seventeenth, is a great surprise to us. It is raining, and so icy
underfoot as to be positively dangerous to life and limb. I had occasion to go out for a while
this forenoon, and knew no better than to wear my muckluks, which are smooth as glass on the
bottoms. To make things more lively, the wind blew a gale from the northeast.

When I left the house, I was going in the same direction as the wind, and though I nearly fell
many times I kept stubbornly on, determined not to be vanquished. On my return--then came the
"tug of war." Near the warehouse a gust of wind took me unawares, and, whisk! in a minute I
was sprawling flat upon the ice. I had gone out with my Indian blanket over my head and shoulders,
and this blew out like a sail, upsetting my tall and slippery footed craft, and bumping me
ignominiously.

I now tried to rise, but could not. Turn as I would, using my hands to steady me, I only made
a vain effort to get upon my feet, as I slipped each time quite flat again. Thinking to turn
first, and get upon my knees, I tried that, but rolled like a fuzzy caterpillar in a ball upon
the ice. Then, alas, I regret to relate it, but I really began to feel a little vexed. I began
calling loudly, supposing that someone in the house would hear me, and come to my assistance;
but the wind carried my voice away faster than I could throw it, and that availed me nothing.
At no other time since my arrival at the Mission I felt certain had there been so long a lull
between the passing of its inmates through its doors; but now, because of my present strait,
they all remained indoors.

In the meantime I had thrown my hands out suddenly into water which stood in little pools in
depressions of the ice around me, and I lay there getting more vexed than ever. Again I tried
to rise, but failed. A stranger would suppose me tipsy, to be sure, and I glanced around to
make certain no one saw me. Finally the door opened, and Miss L. came out.

"What is the matter?" and she began laughing at my predicament.

"Matter enough!" I shouted. "Can't you see? I can't get up to save my life. Do come and help
me," and I began struggling upon my slippery bed again to convince her.

Still she only laughed, standing in the wind with her hands upon her hips in order to keep
her balance.

"Do come and help me," I begged, "or go in and send one of the boys, for I shall stay here
all day if you do not."

When she had her laugh out, she came forward and assisted me to my feet, and into the house,
where I finally smoothed my ruffled feathers, and recovered my equanimity, telling Miss L.
I would pay her back in her own coin when I got the opportunity.

A native has come with reindeer to carry a load of goods to the Home, but cannot leave on account
of the icy trail until tomorrow, or whenever it freezes again.

Today is November twenty-first, and the weather is still soft and bad under foot, so the family
cannot move to the Home until the trail is in better condition. B. shot more ptarmigan, and
we had a dinner of them, which was excellent. They almost seem too pretty to kill, but fresh
meat is scarce nowadays, and we must take it when we can get it.

November twenty-second has come, and with it colder weather. It is five degrees below zero,
and the sun shines. The doctor from White Mountain has been helping Miss J. pack her large
medicine chest ready for moving, as many of these supplies will be left in this house.

Since the days are colder we have most beautiful skies at sunrise, though we now keep the lamps
burning until half-past eight in the morning.

We have heard that the Nome mail is in, but it brought nothing to me. We are writing letters
to send out the first chance we get, whenever that will be, but nobody knows so far.

The Commissioner called today and told us of a new strike at the headwaters of Fish River;
a man and woman coming down to record a bunch of twenty claims having given the information.
The woman runs a roadhouse on the Neukluk River, and wants to take an Eskimo boy to raise,
and teach to work--probably it is mostly the latter, though she seemed a kindly person. Miss
J. told her that she had no boy to give away.

The Marshal and the man in the old schoolhouse started with dogs to Norton Bay today for a
short trip, so we hear. The wife of the man went with small Eskimo boys to the bay to fish
for tom-cod.

Alma is making a fur sleeping bag of reindeer skins for the teacher, so when she travels she
can have it to sleep in nights. It is very heavy to hold and handle while sewing.

Two men called who have been shipwrecked in Norton Bay, and told of the H. family, consisting
of the father, mother, and little daughter whom I have seen in Nome. They lost all their clothing,
but saved part of their "grub," and we have made up a package of clothing to send to the woman
and child by the men who are going back there. In the darkness, one night, they say the schooner
"Lady George" went aground on the mud flats of Norton Bay, the tide rising soon after, and
all having to flee for their lives to nearby ice, from which they went ashore to a log hut
long ago deserted. The child, who is about twelve years old, is now without clothing, and winter
is coming on.

The fates are hard on some people, surely, and this little girl lately from San Francisco,
the public school, and piano lessons, is left with her parents in an Arctic wilderness in winter
without clothing or shelter, except a poor broken hut, and a few men's garments generously
donated. The men say that her mother is almost wild over it, and they thought at first that
she would go insane, but the brave little child does all she can do to comfort her mother,
and the men begged us to send them some things. Among the clothing we sent I put in a few school
books, a slate, some pencils, and a Bible, which may be of use in lonely hours. They may read
the good book now if they never have before. They are Swedish people.

It is three degrees below zero today, November twenty-fifth, clear, bright and cold. Mr. H.
came with a man and his dog-teams to move the whole family tomorrow to the Home. All are delighted
to go there, as we are to remain here. The shipwrecked men called again to tell us more fully
about their experiences, and are now going back to their camp. They certainly had an awful
time, but they are glad and thankful to have come out alive, and we are also glad for their sakes.

Two of the Commissioners have been here, one from fifty miles away, wanting to buy a reindeer
for his Thanksgiving dinner, but Mr. H. would not sell one. He has been very urgent, and called
a number of times, but Mr. H. is firm in refusing. Our good dinner today was made up of mutton
stew with onions, baked potatoes, tomatoes, fruit soup, bread, butter and coffee. I have taken
a few kodak views today of Miss J. and the Eskimo baby, Bessie, and hope they will be good.

November twenty-sixth: It is ten degrees below zero, but the whole household was up early this
morning to move over the ice to the new Home. Four big dog sleds were piled high with household
things, the baby was tucked into a fur sleeping-bag with only her head out, at which she howled
lustily, Miss J. running beside the team to comfort her, while Mr. H., his assistant and Ivan,
with Mr. G. of our party, ran ahead of the dogs. Breakfast was eaten at eight o'clock in the
morning, and all was hurly burly and excitement till they had gone. Ricka, Alma and I ran out
to the beach to see them off upon the ice, as then they would have fair traveling, but we were
afraid they would tip everything over at the bank where the drifts are high, and blocks of
ice piled in places. Everything was lashed tightly down, however, and no accident occurred.
All the children but Bessie ran alongside the sleds to keep warm, and they had lunches with
them to eat when they were hungry. When the smaller ones grew tired, I suppose they rode for
a while on the sleds. It was eleven o'clock in the morning, and the bright sun shone directly
in our faces as we stood waving good-bye to them, really sorry to see them leave us. The hills,
almost bare of snow, lay pink and lovely under the sunshine.

After lunch M. went out, slipped on the ice and fractured his collar bone. The Dawson man in
the old schoolhouse, (who claims to be a doctor), brought him indoors, but poor M. was pretty
pale. The man, with G.'s help, attended to his hurt, put his arm in a sling, and he is lying
on the lounge looking serious, but not discontented nor suffering severely.

We were not to have so small a family many hours, as we found at about five o'clock in the
afternoon today, when there was a great commotion at the door. There were men's voices, a woman's
jolly laughter, and the quick barking of dogs, glad to reach their journey's end, and when
we opened the door to those knocking, there were Mary and two friends from Nome with their
dog-teams. In they came, laughing, talking and brushing the frost off their parkies, glad to
get here, and hungry from traveling, so we gave them a warm welcome, and good hot coffee and
supper.

Then Mary, (real Viking that she is, and from Tromso, in Norway,) related the story of her
journey by dog-team. Eighty-five miles, they call it, from Nome by water to Chinik, but overland
it is probably farther. Nights were spent in the roadhouses, she said, but there was little
sleep to be had in them, for they were crowded and noisy, and she was thankful the trip was
now ended, and she had safely arrived.

The two young men who came with her seem nice, honest fellows, and I am acquainted with one
of them from seeing him at the "Star" many times, where he often ground coffee to help evenings,
or chatted in the kitchen when we worked.

From Nome they had brought two sled loads, on one of them a cook stove for the winter, as the
big range in use here now will go later to the Home, besides which they had food supplies and
stove pipes.

At night Mr. L. came back from the reindeer station, saying that they can have four reindeer
for their prospecting trip to the Koyuk River, and they are making up their party to go there.

November twenty-seventh: I was washing the dishes this morning in the kitchen, when Mr. L.
came quietly to say he will take my attorney paper and stake a gold claim for me. He will do
his best, he says, for me as well as the others, for which I cordially thanked him, and flew
on wings to get the desired paper made out, as the others were also doing.

At half-past three o'clock in the afternoon today the lamps were lighted, and at four o'clock
in the afternoon a mail got in from Nome, but brought no letters for me, as all steamers have
long since stopped running, and I am not corresponding with any one at Nome. I wonder when
I will hear from my home folks?

Our legal documents cost us each $2.50.

November twenty-eighth: This has been a fine day out of doors, and a busy one indoors. Mr.
H. with a man and two natives came with the dog-teams to take what household stuff they could
carry, and they took the organ with the rest. I hated to see it go, but we are to have the
one in the church, which G. has just cleaned and brought into the house, as the frost in that
building is bad for it. They loaded their sleds, then ate a lunch at half-past eleven o'clock
in the morning, and started. The two boys from Nome also left for that place, they being quite
rested, as well as their dogs. Drilling parkies they wore to "mush" in, their furs and other
traps being lashed to the sleds; and bidding us good-bye, one ran ahead, and the other behind
the dogs.

CHAPTER XIX.

NEW QUARTERS.

After thinking for some time of doing so, I finally decided to call at the hotel and ask the
captain and his wife if I might not teach their little black-eyed girl English, as Miss J.'s
leaving deprives her of a teacher. The woman was not in when I called, but the child's father
seemed to think favorably of my plan, and said he would consult with his wife, so I hope to
get the child for a pupil.

B. and G. have moved all their things into the house from the schoolroom, and Ricka hung the
clothes she has been all day washing out there to dry. There is a small stove in which a fire
is often made to dry them more quickly. It is most convenient to have such a place for drying
clothes, as it is impossible to get them dry outside on the lines in the frost and snow.

We spent the evening pleasantly together in the sitting room, listening to B.'s jokes, and
Mary's stories of Nome and the "trail."

For our Thanksgiving dinner we had canned turkey, potatoes, tomatoes, pickles, fruit, soup,
bread, butter, and coffee, trying hard not to think of our home friends and their roast turkeys
and cranberries. However, the dinner was a good one for Alaska, eaten with relish, and all
were jolly and very thankful, even M., with his sore collar-bone, laughing with the rest.

November thirtieth: Mr. H. came with a man, two natives, seven reindeer and four sleds to take
more furniture away. They all ate dinner here, and I took some kodak views of the animals with
Alma, Ricka, Mary, G. and a native driver in the sunshine in front of the Mission. Mary goes
up to the animals and pets them, as does Ricka, but I keep a good way off from their horns,
as they look ugly, and one old deer has lost his antlers, with the exception of one bare, straight
one a yard long, which, with an angry beast behind it, would, however, be strong enough to
toss a person in mid-air if the creature was so minded.

There has been some hitch in the arrangements of the men going to the Koyuk River, and there
is a delay, but they will get off some day, because L. never gives up anything he attempts
to do, and I like him for that. If more people were like this, they being always certain that
they were started in the right direction, the world would be the better for it.

December first: Mr. B. is making bunks in two rooms upstairs, as the house is so full all the
time. This will give quite a little more lodging room, for cots cannot be provided for all,
neither is there room for so many, but with bunks, one above another, it will furnish lodgings
for all who come.

Our two fisher women went out again this afternoon, and got tom-cod through the ice by the
cliff, near the snow-buried river steamers.

About four o'clock in the afternoon I called on the captain's wife, and found her sewing furs.
For her helper she had her cousin Alice, the coy, plump Eskimo girl, who traveled to San Francisco
with her last year. Both women sat upon fur rugs on the floor, as is their custom when sewing,
and they were sorting bright beads, and cutting moosehide into moccasins and gauntlet gloves,
to be decorated with beads in the fashion of the Yukon River Indians.

I had no difficulty in arranging for lessons with the captain's wife, who would also study
with her little girl, she said, and she showed me school books, slates, etc., they had already
been using. If their piano were only here, the child, who is a pretty little thing, with a
sweet smile, might take music lessons, but it cannot be brought over the winter trail.

We had snow today, but no church service. We rested, sang, read, ate and slept. A fine dinner
of reindeer roast, with good gravy, mashed potatoes, etc., for our two o'clock meal, was eaten
and well relished; but in spite of all the day seemed a long one for some reason. We wonder
how things are going on the outside and if the friends we love but cannot hear from are well,
happy, and think sometimes of us.

The Commissioner came to say that he would bring the Recorder, or Commissioner, from the Koyuk
district with him to call this evening, and he did so. The latter is a middle-aged man, whose
family lives in Minneapolis, Minnesota, he himself being a native born Norwegian, but having
lived in the States for twenty years. They brought two United States marshals with them, and
one of them played on the guitar quite well, though I thought I detected a scent of the bottle
when he sang his songs. He has a good voice, but untrained.

Yesterday it was fifteen degrees below zero, but grew warmer toward night, and began snowing.
Today it snowed quite hard until dark. Along the shore huge blocks of ice lay heaped promiscuously,
and deep drifts rolled smoothly everywhere. When I grew tired walking I stopped a moment and
listened. There was no sound but the beating of my own heart. This then was our new Arctic
world. How wonderfully beautiful it was in its purity and stillness. Look whichever way I would,
all was perfect whiteness and silence. When I walked the snow scarcely creaked under my feet.
Above, beneath, around, it was everywhere the same. It was a solemn stillness, but ineffably
sweet and tender. It was good to live. A feeling of sweetest peace and happiness swept over
me, and tears sprang to my eyes. Was this heaven? It almost seemed like it, but glancing toward
the grave of the murdered man on the hillside I remembered that this could not be. Farther
down the shore line, when I started to go home, I saw the smoke of the cabins, through the
veil of the snowflakes.

While giving Jennie her lessons this afternoon the Commissioner came in to say that he would
like me to do some copying for him, for as yet he has no clerk, and needs one. I told him I
would do the work if I might take it home, and could get a quiet corner by myself. I hardly
see how I am to manage that while there are so many people in the house, but I shall try it,
for I would like to earn the money.

This morning it was three degrees above zero; yesterday it was fifteen below.

A full moon hung high in the sky this morning until nine o'clock. Weather is warm and beautiful,
with rosy clouds at sunrise, but it grew colder by noon.

Among other things Mary has brought from Nome is her little hand sewing machine, which is an
old-fashioned thing, to be fastened to a table and the wheel turned by hand. It was brought
from the old country, and looks quite well worn, but is still useful and far better than no
machine, if it does have a chain stitch which is liable to rip easily. We have a lot of amusement
with this machine, for when Alma is sewing and one of the boys happens to be idle about her
she makes him turn the wheel while she guides the cloth and watches the needle.

Others besides myself are wearing muckluks by this time, though not all have come to them,
the felt shoes being worn in the house some by the girls until severe cold forces them into
the native boots of reindeer skin.

In her rooms at the hotel Mollie sits with Alice each day on the fur rugs, cutting, sewing
and beading moccasins and moosehide gloves. A regular workshop it is. Boxes of thread, beads,
scraps of fur, whole otter skins, paper patterns, shears, bits of hair and fur scattered upon
the floor, and the walls covered with hanging fur garments; this is the sewing-room of the
captain's wife as it is now each day when I go there. The room contains two large windows,
one on the north side and one on the west, at which hang calico curtains tied back with blue
ribbons in daytime. These women work very rapidly, with the thimble upon the first finger and
by pushing the three-cornered skin needle deftly through skins they are sewing. The thread
they use for this work is made by them from the sinews of reindeer, and takes hours of patient
picking and rolling between fingers and palms to get spliced and properly twisted, but when
finished is very strong and lasting. Their sewing and bead work is quite pretty and unique,
and is done with exceeding neatness and care, though not much attention is bestowed upon colors.

Friday, December seventh, has been a busy day all round. L. and B. started off early after
breakfast on a prospecting trip, and the girls kept at their sewing. Mr. H. came from the Home
to get the sewing machine and some lumber, and was packing up nearly all day, so that we are
still quite unsettled, but it is much pleasanter for him to come to a warm house and where
he gets hot meals after his twelve miles over the ice with the deer or dogs.

He left here at four in the afternoon and had been gone only an hour when Mr. F. and another
man came from Nome, on the way to the Koyuk. Getting well warmed and eating a hearty supper,
which was much enjoyed after some days on the trail, they started with two reindeer and as
many sleds for the Home, which is on the way to Koyuk. Another hour passed and two women and
their guide from White Mountain came in, these belonging to the same party as the last men
going to the Koyuk, and these three had to remain over night as it was too late to push on
further. The men brought their fur robes and blankets from their sleds, threw them into the
bunks in the west room, and called it a good lodging place compared to the cramped and disorderly
roadhouses upon the trails.

December eighth: We had a fire fright this morning, which was not enjoyed by any one in the
Mission. Mary had gotten up early, and two fires were already going, one in the kitchen range
and one in the sitting room heater near my bed. It was still dark at half-past seven and I
was awake, thinking seriously of dressing myself, though there was no hurry, for Mary was the
only one yet up, when I saw a shower of large sparks of fire or burning cinders falling to
the ground outside the window. I rushed into the kitchen telling Mary what I had seen, and
she ran outside and looked up toward the chimney. Fire, smoke and cinders poured out in a stream,
but she satisfied herself it was soot burning in the sitting-room chimney.

Coming in, she pulled most of the wood from the heater, scattered salt upon the coals, and
by this time all in the house were down stairs, asking what had happened.

M. says he will also take my attorney paper and stake a claim for me, as he has decided to
go to the Koyuk with the men who came last night from Nome. They have a horse, but as it is
almost worn to the bone and nearly starved, they hardly think he can travel much farther. M.
wants me to get him some location notices from the Commissioner when I see him. When coming
home from Jennie's lesson this afternoon I was turning the corner of the hotel when the wind
took me backward toward the bay for thirty feet or more, and deposited me against an old wheelbarrow
turned bottom upwards in the snow. To this I clung desperately, keeping my presence of mind
enough to realize my danger if blown out upon the ice fifty feet away and below me, where I
would be unable to make myself either seen or heard in the blinding storm and would soon be
buried in the snow drifts and frozen.

In my right hand I carried my small leather handbag containing a dozen or more deeds and other
documents to be recorded for the Commissioner, and if the wind blew this from my hand for an
instant I was surely undone, for it would never be recovered. I now clung to the barrow until
I had regained my breath and then made a quick dash for the lee or south side of the hotel
out of the gale, and into the living-room again. Here I sat down to rest, trembling and breathless,
to consider the best way to get home. It was now dark, the snow blinding, and the gale from
the northeast fearful. A stout young Eskimo sat near me, and I finally asked him to take me
home, to which he consented.

The Mission was only a few hundred feet away, but to reach it we had to go directly into the
teeth of the storm, which was coming from the northeast.

Not six feet ahead of us could we see, but I trusted to the sense of my Eskimo guide to lead
me safely home, and he did it. Motioning me to follow him, he proceeded to pass through the
building and out the east end entrance, notwithstanding that he led me directly through the
bar-room of the hotel, where the idlers stared wonderingly at me. Once outside the door, he
grasped my right arm firmly and we started, but he kept his body a little ahead of me, and
with side turned from the blizzard instead of facing it.

In this sidelong way we struggled on with all our strength, through snow drifts, against the
elements in the darkness, with breath blown from our bodies, and eyes blinded by whirling snow.
Now and again I was forced to stop to gain breath for a fresh struggle, and when we reached
the Mission we staggered into the door as if drunken. I now found that all my clothing was
blown so full of fine snow that the latter seemed fairly a part of the cloth, would not be
shaken out, and only a thorough drying would answer. A good, hot cup of coffee was handed to
each of us, and my Eskimo guide sat until rested, but I think I shall take Alma's sage advice,
and in future remain at home during blizzards.

Of course M. and the other men could not leave for the Koyuk as they intended, but they do
not appear to be discontented at having to remain under our roof longer, as they seem to be
enjoying themselves very well, and say it is all really home-like here in the Mission.

I am working on the Recorder's books, and like the work fairly well.

This is a stormy Sunday, December ninth, but the weather is not so bad as yesterday, and B.
and L. came back from the Home. We have eight men here today, including the two young fellows
who have been at work on the Home building, and who came over from Nome weeks before the rest
of us. This is the first time they have been here since we arrived. They, too, are Swedes,
as are all these men but M., who is a Finlander.

For dinner we had reindeer roast with flour gravy, potatoes, plum butter, rye and white bread
and butter, coffee and tapioca pudding. The potatoes taste pretty sweet from being frozen,
but are better than none. We have had music from the guitar, mandolin and organ, besides vocal
exercise without limit, and with all this I found time to do some Sunday reading in Drummond's
Year Book, and have well enjoyed the day.

The thermometer registers thirteen degrees below zero, and at half-past eight in the evening
the wind was not blowing much; enough blizzard for this time certainly.

While talking with one of the men from Nome I asked if he supposed there was gold in the Koyuk
country, and he thought there was. As he was up there all last summer, he ought to know the
prospects. It appears that there is a split in his party, or a disagreement of some kind, as
is quite the fashion in Alaska, and some of the men are to remain behind. As soon as the weather
clears sufficiently they will go to the Home, and from there leave for Koyuk River.

Monday, December tenth: The Commissioner, the Marshal, and three of their friends came in to
spend the evening with us, and one of the strangers sang well, accompanying himself on the
organ. He also belongs to a party made up to go to Koyuk, but failed to reach that point, and
they are staying in Chinik.

I bought two red fox skins today for ten dollars, but will have to pay five dollars more for
their cleaning by a native woman, to whom I have given them for that purpose. It is the only
kind of fur I can find of which to make a coat, and I must have one of skins, as the wind goes
straight through cloth, no matter how thick it is.

Six of our household went out today to get wood with the old horse and sled, but the poor creature
would not go, probably because it could not. They had to unload a good many times and were
gone five hours. Alma and Ricka went with the four boys for an outing, but all came home tired
and voting the horse a great failure.

This morning our house was astir very early, and the men were getting ready to "mush on" towards
the Koyuk. Mr. L. goes with the Marshal, the clerk, and two others, taking seven dogs and sleds
loaded with provisions. It is a sight to see the preparations. There are sacks of frozen tom-cod
for the dogs, tents, Yukon stoves, tin dishes, snow shoes, sleeping bags and robes, coffee
pots, axes, picks, gold pans and boxes, cans and bags of grub, ad infinitum.

G. and B. stay behind to make another camp stove but will leave soon for Nome. B. cleaned his
gun today, and looked after his ammunition.

Wednesday, December twelfth: Our sunset was very lovely today at one in the afternoon, and
at three o'clock, when I began with little Jennie's lessons, we had to light the lamp. I usually
go into the sewing-room for a little while either before or after the lesson to watch the women
sew furs.

Alice, the younger, is as quiet as a mouse, but the captain's wife is a little more talkative,
though not particularly given to conversation. Now and then, while she sews, something is said
with which she does not agree, and she bites her thread off with a snap, with some terse remark
offsetting the other, or with a bit of cynicism, which, with a quick glance of her black eyes
and curl of the lip, is well calculated to settle forever the offender; for the captain's wife
is as keen as a briar, and reads human nature quickly. I should say she is gifted with wonderful
intuitive powers, and these have been sharpened by her constant effort to understand the words
and lives of those around her, these being to such an extent English speaking people, while
she is an Eskimo. Let none flatter themselves that they can deceive Mollie, for they would
better abandon that idea before they begin. She impresses me as a thoroughly good and honest
woman, and I am getting to respect her greatly.

Two of the boys from the Home spent the night in the Mission, and helped with sawing wood all
forenoon today. They went from Nome to assist at building the Home, and came over here for
the first time yesterday. They are jolly fellows, and used often to assist us in the "Star"
at Nome, one always lightening our load of work by his cheery voice and pleasant, hopeful smile.
He, too, is a sweet singer, and a great favorite with all. After a lunch they started to mush
back to the Home over the ice, promising to come again at Christmas. B. and G. finally got
started on their long, cold trip to Nome on business.

CHAPTER XX.

CHRISTMAS IN ALASKA.

Thursday, December thirteenth: The old Eskimo whom I call "grandpa" came from the Home with
one of Mr. H.'s assistants for a load of supplies for the place, and arrived in time for breakfast
at half-past nine. They loaded up the sleds, took hot coffee, and started back at eleven in
the morning. Mr. M. came back alone before noon, having given up his trip to the Koyuk because
his shoulder hurts him. The old horse had finally to be killed, and Mr. M. decided that he
did not want to take his place at hauling, so turned back after selling part of his supplies
to the others. The weather is fine indeed. A little snow is falling this afternoon, but there
was a beautiful sky at sunrise and sunset, the latter at half-past one o'clock.

While giving Jennie her lesson today I was introduced for the first time to little Charlie,
who spends a good deal of time with Jennie. He is four years old, and a bright and beautiful
child. His papa is an Englishman, and his Eskimo mother is dead. After the lesson I read stories
to the two children, holding the little boy upon my lap, while Jennie sat beside us in the
lamplight, her big black eyes shining like stars. She wore a brown serge dress, trimmed with
narrow red trimming, her hair neatly braided in two braids down her back, and tied with red
ribbons. Both children wore little reindeer muckluks on their feet, the boy being dressed in
flannel blouse waist and knee pants. They are a very pretty pair of children.

Such a charming, soft-tinted, red, purple and blue sky today, stretching along in bars above
the snow-topped mountains. It makes one glad to be here, and feel full of pity for those who
cannot enjoy it with us. It is good to enjoy everything possible as one goes along, for nobody
knows how long anything will hold out and what will come next. At noon two hungry Eskimo children
came, dirty, forlorn and cold, and we fed them.

Mr. H. came again toward evening with reindeer to get a load of supplies, and the girls and
M. went fishing. They had great sport, all dressed in fur, with short fish poles, hooks, bait
and gunny sack for the game, coming in frosty and rosy after dark, and calling for hot coffee.

I am quite interested in getting the fox skins for my coat. I have paid the Eskimo girl five
dollars for tanning my fur skins, and hope to have a warm coat. My first three skins cost me
twelve dollars, the next two ten dollars, and now five dollars for tanning, but I have a lining,
and Mollie will make it for me next week.

After supper we had a caller who has been here once before with others. He is a finely trained
baritone singer, and comes from one of the Southern States. He sang and played entertainingly
on the organ for an hour, while we sewed and knitted as we do each evening.

Saturday, December fifteenth: Eight weeks today since we landed at Golovin Bay. Weather good,
skies beautiful, but days are short. Sunset at half-past one in the afternoon; sunrise about
ten in the morning.

The Commissioner came with legal documents and customary jokes, and I try to get the copying
done in between times. He is going to Nome for Christmas, and wants the papers all finished
before he leaves. He is considered a very "rapid" young man, and looks like it.

Sunday, December sixteenth: We had breakfast today at sunrise (ten in the morning) and I went
for a walk alone upon the ice in a southerly direction, where the natives were fishing. There
was a good trail which has been made by a horse-team hauling wood from the other shore, and
the air was fine, so that I enjoyed it very much, though my hood was soon frosty around my
face. For a while I watched the natives haul tom-cod up through the ice holes, but having no
place to sit except upon the ice, as they did, I returned after having been gone two hours,
and was soon dressed for dinner in Sunday suit.

After dinner Mr. H. arrived with the teacher to hold an evening service in the kitchen, the
latter taking Ricka and Mary with her to call upon some native families, two of whose members
were sick. When they returned Ricka was full of laughter at the way they had entered the native
igloos, especially Mary, who is a large woman and could barely squeeze in through the small
opening called by courtesy a door. Ricka says it was more like crawling through a hole than
anything else, and at one time Mary was so tightly jammed in that she wondered seriously how
she was ever to get out.

"Ugh!" said Ricka, when Mary related the incident, "that was not the worst of it. I wanted
to keep the good dinner I had eaten, but the smell of the igloo almost made me lose it then
and there, and as I was inside already, and Mary stuck fast in the door so I could not get
out, we were both in a bad plight. When I tried to help her she would not let me, but only
laughed at me."

"Next time we will send Mrs. Sullivan," said Alma, laughing.

"And you go along with me," said I, knowing that I could stand as long as Alma the smell of
the Eskimo huts and their seal oil. So that was settled, Miss J., I presume, thinking us all
very foolish to make so much fuss over a little thing like that in Alaska.

This evening, when the kitchen was filled with natives, their service had begun, and while
some of us sat in the sitting-room to leave more chairs for the others, there came a knock
at the door, and in walked the Commissioner and the young baritone singer, who was persuaded
to sing a few solos after the meeting was through in the kitchen.

Monday, December seventeenth: Mollie is cutting my fur coat for me, but says I must have one
or two more skins to make it large enough. She says she is too busy to study before Christmas,
but will afterwards. The Commissioner brought more copying for me to do, and told me I could
have the money for my work at any time. Some tell me he never pays anything he owes, and that
I must look sharp or I will not get anything. The other Commissioner has invited me to go to
a New Year's party at Council, fifty miles away, saying he will take me there and back behind
his best dogs, but I refused, telling him that I never dance, and that I am a married woman.
At that he laughed, said he was also married, with a wife in the States, but that does not
debar him from having a good time.

Word comes of a new gold strike not far away, but I think we are not really sure that it is
bona fide, and must not put too much dependence on what we hear. The Commissioner comes with
his copying, and is full of jokes.

Wednesday, December nineteenth: A man came from the Home yesterday who has persuaded M. to
go with him on a short staking expedition. They think they know of a new "find" very near home,
and I ran over to the Recorder's to get two attorney papers made out for them to take as they
say they will stake for the girls and me. The Commissioner paid me twenty dollars on copying,
and said he would settle the remainder when he got back from Nome, as he and the other Commissioner
were just setting out with a dog-team for that place. I have had to buy another fox skin for
my coat, making twenty-seven dollars paid out on the garment thus far.

Right sorry I was today that Mr. H. carried away the big velvet couch yesterday that I have
slept on nights since coming here, and I tried last night the wooden settle brought down from
upstairs to the sitting-room. I found it a most uncomfortable thing to sleep on, as my feet
hung at least six inches over the end of the lounge, and they were icy when I wakened in the
morning. I then decided to go upstairs to one of the canvas bunks in the northeast room, and
I find it much better every way. The bunk is long, wide and warm enough with a reindeer skin
under me, and all my blankets and comforters over me, while I have the room alone, temporarily,
at least.

Saturday, December twenty-second: This is the middle shortest day of winter, and a fine one,
too, though we had not more than three and a half hours daylight. The skies are beautiful,
with many bright colors blended in a most wonderful way.

The girls are hard at work cooking for Christmas, and while the boys were all away today and
we needed wood brought into the house, I rigged myself in rag-time costume and fetched several
loads in my arms. How the girls laughed when they saw me, and declared they would fetch the
kodak, but I ran away again.

This afternoon M. and the other man returned from their little trip, looking bright and happy
over having staked some claims for themselves and us not very far away. These are our first
claims staked, and we naturally feel more than usually set up, though the men say of course
there may be nothing of value in them.

When I went to give Jennie her lesson I heard her father and another man talking of a party
of five persons who have been taken out to sea on the ice, near Topkok. They started about
three days ago from here, and one was the sick woman who has been at the hotel, all on their
way to Nome by dog-team.

There were two women and three men, two dog-teams and sleds. They were crossing the ice between
two points of land while upon the winter trail to Nome, the wind had loosened the ice, and
when they tried to get upon shore again they found it impossible, and they were blown directly
out to sea. Without food or shelter, and with the nights as cold as they are, how can they
live on the ice at sea? Some men have arrived bringing the news, and say that two men went
out in a boat to their rescue, but broke their oars, the ice closed in on them, they were soaked
through, and were obliged to use their best efforts to save themselves.

The following night was very cold, and all think the unfortunates must have perished. What
a terrible fate, and one that may happen to any one traveling in this country, though it does
seem as if this ice should soon freeze solidly.

Sunday, December twenty-third: Soon after breakfast today a man came to our door asking for
iodine, or remedies for a dog bite. A mad dog had rushed upon a man sleeping in a tent in the
night and bitten him quite severely upon the hands and leg. Mary and I put on our furs immediately
and started out with the man, who piloted us into a small saloon, where the poor fellow sat
by the stove with a white and pinched face.

Several other men were standing about, after having done all they could for the injured man,
but Mary washed the torn flesh in strong carbolic acid water, and tied it up in sterilized
bandages, for which he seemed very thankful.

The little saloon was neat and clean, containing a big stove, six or eight bunks across the
back end, and a long table, upon which were spread tin plates, cups and spoons. A short bar
ran along one side by the door. The men said that the mad dog had been shot immediately after
the accident, but there were others around in the camp, they feared.

I could easily see that the injured man was badly frightened as to the after-effects of the
dog bite, and both Mary and I did all in our power to suggest away his fear, knowing well that
this was as harmful as the injury. I told him that the missionary, Mr. H., had had a great
deal of experience with such accidents, but never yet had seen a person thus bitten suffer
from hydrophobia, which appeared to comfort him greatly.

When we left the place he seemed more cheerful, though still very pale, and Mary promised to
come again to see him. He belongs to a party of three men bound for Koyuk River. The young
man who sings so well sometimes at the Mission is one of the three, but the other I have not
yet seen.

Later on Mary and I called upon Alice, the Eskimo girl, who lives with her mother, near the
hotel, and who is suffering with quinsy. I found Jennie and Charlie there, and took them out
for a walk down on the beach, where the little girl's aunt was cutting ice. As we passed the
A. E. Store I noticed a dog lying on the porch having a bloody mouth, but as he lay quietly
I did not think much about it. After we had passed down the trail for a block or so, I heard
a commotion behind us, and looking back saw a young man rush out into the trail and shoot a
dog, the one, as I afterwards learned, that I had seen on the porch. It had been mad, and snapping
around all day, but the men could not find it earlier, and the two little children and I had
passed within a few feet of it without being conscious of danger.

Mr. H. came in to supper, also two others from the camp of the shipwrecked people, thirty miles
away to the east of us. At supper one of the men offered to stake some claims for us over near
their camp, where they think there is gold. They took our names on paper, and said that after
prospecting, if they found gold, they would let us into the strike before any others. They
will remain over night, and leave early in the morning. Mr. H. and Mary called after supper
to see the man who was bitten by the mad dog, and found him looking better, and not so worried
as this morning. His friend was playing on the banjo, and all were sitting quietly around the fire.

Monday, December twenty-fourth: The two boys, G. and B., came in late last evening, tired and
hungry, from the Nome trail, glad to arrive at home in time for Christmas.

Early this morning Mary dressed herself up hideously as Santa Claus, bringing a big box of
presents in while we sat at the breakfast table and distributing them. Of course there were
the regulation number of fake packages, containing funny things for the boys, but each one
had a present of something, and I had a souvenir spoon just from Nome, an ivory paper knife
of Eskimo make from the girls, and later a white silk handkerchief.

Going into the sitting-room after breakfast, we were met by the fumes of burnt cork, hair or
cotton, and upon inquiry were told that Santa Claus had had a little mishap; his whiskers had
been singed by coming into contact with the lamp chimney and that it had delayed matters somewhat
until Ricka, his assistant, could find more cotton on the medicine shelves; but the end of
all was hearty laughter and a jolly good time; an effort to forget, for the present, the day
in our own homes thousands of miles away.

This morning, before noon, all in the Mission went to the Home to the Christmas tree and exercises,
leaving me alone to keep house, the first time this has happened in Alaska. Mr. H. had left
the dog-teams, two reindeer, and three sleds, with which they were to drive over, and a merry
party they were. When they had gone I worked for some time at getting the rooms in order, and
making all as tidy and snug as possible, but I had no holly berries nor greens with which to
decorate. All was snowy and white out of doors, and a cheerful fire inside was most to be desired.
In the afternoon I gave Jennie her lesson as usual. I am invited to eat Christmas dinner tomorrow
with Mollie, the captain and little Jennie, and shall accept. A good many in camp have been
invited, I understand, and I am wondering what kind of a gathering it will be.

Tuesday, December twenty-fifth: Christmas Day, and I was alone in the Mission all night, so
I had to build my own fires this morning. I did not get up until ten o'clock, as it was cold
and dark, and I had nothing especial to do. There is plenty of wood and water, and everything
in the house, so I do not have to go out of doors for anything.

By noon I had finished my work, put on my best dress, and sat down at the organ to play. I
went over all the church music and voluntaries I could find at hand, read a number of psalms
aloud, and as far as possible for one person I went through my Christmas exercises.

If a certain longing for things and people far away came near possessing me, I would not allow
it to make me miserable, for longing is not necessarily unhappiness, and I had set my mind
like a flint against being dissatisfied with my present state. With what knowledge I possess
of the laws of auto-suggestion, I have so far since my arrival in Alaska managed the ego within
most successfully, and tears and discontent are not encouraged nor allowed.

We are creatures of voluntary habits, as well as involuntary ones, and habitual discontent
and discouragement, gnawing at one's vitals are truly death-dealing. The study of human nature
is, in Alaska, particularly interesting in these directions, to the one with his mind's eye
open to such things, and I am resolved, come what will, that I will keep the upper hand of
my spirit, that it shall do as I direct, and not harbor "blues" nor discouragement.

About two in the afternoon in came M. and one of the visiting Swedes, after having walked from
the Home, where they had attended the Christmas party, and they were well covered with icicles.
I prepared a hot lunch for them, and ate something myself. Later a native was sent by Mollie
to fetch me over to the hotel to dinner, it being dark, and as I was already dressed for the
occasion, I went with him.

When I arrived at the dining-room they were just seated at table, and the waiters were bringing
in the first course. Twenty-five persons sat at the Christmas board, at one end of which sat
the captain as host with his wife and little Jennie at his left. At his right sat the young
musician, who had entertained us at the Mission several times with his singing, and the storekeeper,
but with a place between them reserved for me.

After a quiet Christmas greeting to those around me, I took my seat, and the dinner was then
served. A bottle of wine was ordered by the host for me, and brought by the waiter, who placed
it with a glass beside my plate. At each plate there had already been placed the same accompaniments
to the dinner, with which great care had been taken by the two French cooks in the kitchen,
and upon which no expense had been spared by the captain, who was host. While the waiters were
serving the courses, and conversation around the table near me became quite general, on the
aside I studied the company. It was cosmopolitan to the last degree. Opposite me sat the hostess
(Mollie) with her little Jennie, dressed in their very best, the woman wearing a fashionable
trained skirt, pink silk waist and diamond brooch, while the little child wore light tan cloth
in city fashion, and looked very pretty. Below them sat the regular boarders at the hotel,
hotel clerk, the bartender, miners, traders and the woman who kept the saloon. The latter appeared
about thirty years of age, dark, petite and pretty, richly and becomingly gowned in garments
which might have come along with her native tongue from Paris. On our side of the long table,
and opposite this woman, sat the only other white woman besides myself present, and she, with
her husband, the two neighbors who had given us our first sleigh ride behind the grey horse.
On this side sat more miners and the few travelers who happened to be at the hotel at this
time. The clerk, next his employer, who sat at my right, and the musician on my left, completed
the number of guests, with the exception of the one at the farther end of the board, opposite
the host. This was a young man in a heavy fur coat, his head drooping low over his plate.

"Don't let H. fall upon the floor, boys," said the captain, as he saw the pitiable plight of
the young man. "Poor fellow, he has been celebrating Christmas with a vengeance, and it was
too much for him, evidently. It don't take much to knock him out, though, and this wine," taking
up his wine glass and looking through the liquid it contained, "won't hurt a baby."

"Do you never take wine?" politely inquired the musician of me, as he noticed that my wine
glass remained untouched, and a glass of cold water was my only beverage.

"I never do," said I firmly, but with a smile, as I noticed that both he and the gentleman
at my right barely touched theirs, while others drank freely.

"Waiter, bring Mellie another bottle of that wine," called the bartender, from the other side
of the table, "those bottles don't hold nothin' anyway, and a woman who can't empty more'n
one of 'em ain't much," and a second bottle was handed the female dispenser of grog, a connoisseur
of long standing, and one who could "stand up" under as much as the next person. By this time
the woman opposite her was considerably along the road to hilarity, and shouts and laughter
came from both, called forth by the jests of their companions alongside.

Meanwhile the dinner progressed. The turkey was bona fide bird, and not a few gull's bones
from a tin quart can, while the cake and ice cream with which my meal was ended, were all that
could be desired in Alaska. All voted that the cooks had "done themselves proud," and no one
could say that Christmas dinners could not be served in Chinik.

Before rising from the table, at the close of the meal, toasts to the host and hostess were
drunk by those at the bottles, and Christmas presents were distributed to many, principally
to members of the family and from boarders of the house. There were silk handkerchiefs, red
neckties, "boiled shirts," and mittens, and in some instances moosehide gloves and moccasins,
made by the Eskimo hostess herself, while "Mellie" came in for a share, including a large black
bottle of "choice Burgundy."

Upon leaving the dining table, the company separated, most of the men going into the bar-room
and store, while the family and invited guests repaired to the living-room. Here a good-sized
Christmas tree had been arranged for Jennie and Charlie, and their presents were displayed
and talked over. In the meantime, the long dining table was cleared and spread again for the
Eskimos, who soon flocked into the room in numbers.

Some one proposed that we go to the Mission and have some songs by the musician, to which all
assented, and nine of us, including the captain, his wife and Jennie, started over about half-past
eight o'clock. There we found the rooms bright and warm, the two men keeping house in my absence
having escaped to the upper rooms on hearing the party approaching. Here a pleasant hour or
two were passed in listening to the songs of the musician, who always accompanies himself on
his instrument, whether banjo or organ. He sang the "Lost Chord," "Old Kentucky Home," and
many other dear old songs, closing with "God Be With You Till We Meet Again," and the doxology.
After that they pulled on their parkies and fur coats and went out into the snow storm (for
by this time the snow was falling heavily), and to their homes, while I sat down alone in the
firelight to review the events of the day--my first Christmas Day in Alaska. How different
from any other I have ever spent. What a disclosure of the shady side of human nature this
is,--and yet there is some good intermingled with it all.

Many here cannot endure the stress of the current, nor pull against it, and so float easily
on towards the rapids and destruction. Here is a field for the Christian worker, though Mr.
H. says he moved his little flock twelve miles across the bay in order to get it farther away
from this iniquitous camp.

CHAPTER XXI.

MY FIRST GOLD CLAIMS.

Christmas is over for another year, and this is December twenty-sixth with its daily winter
routine. After I had given the two men their breakfast, I went out for a walk upon the beach.
A few snowflakes fell upon my face as I walked, and it was not cold but pleasant. There was
a red and glowing, eastern sky, but no sunshine, and I looked out over the ice to see if possibly
the girls were returning. Seeing nothing of them, I went home again. About two o'clock M. came
in, saying that they could be seen far out upon the ice, and we must build the fires and get
dinner started, which we then did. Soon Alma came riding on a reindeer sled, with a native
driver, getting in ahead of the others, who arrived half an hour later.

Mr. H. has come with two of his assistants and Miss E. by reindeer team from the Home on their
way to the station, where the animals are herded in the hills, and all had a good lunch. After
spending two hours in packing, talking and resting, they left again, Miss E. on a sled behind
a reindeer, which was driven by a native, and which tore up the snow in clouds as he dashed
over the ice northward to the hills. I ran out upon the cliff to see them on their way, being
quite contented that it was not myself.

I have learned that the five persons who drifted out to sea on the ice were brought back by
the wind and tide, and escaped safely to land, after being at sea several days, but were unharmed,
and went on to Nome. I was very glad to hear this, as they have had a narrow escape from death.

Friday, December twenty-eighth: The musician and his friend who was bitten by the mad dog called
this forenoon at the Mission to get the man's wounds dressed by Mary, the nurse. His hands
are much better, but the wounded leg may yet give him trouble. Mary did her best for the man,
who seems to be growing more cheerful, and we do all possible to encourage and help him, lending
him reading matter of various kinds with which to pass his time. A good many are going to the
New Year's party at Council, among them the captain and his wife, and the musician; but I shall
not go, though both commissioners have urged me to accept their invitations, and did not enjoy
overmuch my refusals. I was playing ball with Jennie and Charlie before our lessons today when
the party started out with the dog-teams, for the nights are very moonlight and clear, and
they can travel for many hours. A cousin of Mollie's, by name Ageetuk, went with her. Jennie
is to stay with her auntie until her mamma's return, and I will give her the afternoon lessons
just the same, only at her auntie's house. When the lesson was finished I led Charlie to Ageetuk's
house, where her mother cares for him in the night time, and left Jennie with her auntie, Apuk.
This woman has a neat little cabin of three small rooms, furnished in comfortable fashion,
with a pretty Brussels rug covering the floor of her best room, in which is a white iron bedstead,
a good small table with a pretty cover, a large lamp, white dimity curtains at the windows
over the shades, and in the next room there are white dishes upon the shelves.

Sunday, December thirtieth: It is ten weeks yesterday since we arrived at Golovin, or Chinik,
as is the Eskimo name for the settlement, and pronounced Cheenik, a creek of the same name
flowing into the bay a mile east of this camp. During the day I went to look after Jennie and
brought the child home with me, giving her candy and nuts, and playing for her on the organ.

This evening we all went out upon the ice for a walk. We took the trail to White Mountain,
going in a northwesterly direction, and enjoyed it very much. We passed the cliff, and the
boats, the snow creaking at every step, and the moonlight clear and beautiful. We were out
for two hours, and felt better for the fresh air and exercise. All old timers say that it is
bad for one's health to remain indoors too much in Alaska, and people should get out every
day for exercise. There is far more danger of getting scurvy by remaining in the house too
much than from any kinds of food we have to eat, and none of us wish to be ill with that troublesome
disease.

About five o'clock Miss E. came in with a native from the station where the reindeer are kept,
having grown tired of staying in a native hut with the Eskimo women while the missionary was
busy at work. She started early this morning when the weather was fine. Lincoln, the experienced
native who came with her, knew the way perfectly, and they expected to make the twelve or fifteen
miles and get into the Mission early, but the weather suddenly changed, as it knows so well
how to do in this country, the wind blew, snow fell and drifted and though they came safely
through the hills, they lost their way upon the bay while crossing to Chinik, and wandered
for hours in the snow storm.

Having no lunch, tent, nor compass, and no extra furs, they found themselves in a disagreeable
plight, especially as the snow was very soft and wet. They kept on traveling, however, until
they were satisfied that they were going in circles, as do all when lost in a snow storm, and
were making no progress; then they halted.

Here they were overtaken by two white men, lost like themselves, who, when the matter had been
talked over, would not follow the native, thinking they knew better than he the way to Chinik,
and they went off by themselves. Miss E. says that both she and Lincoln had given up hope of
getting here today, but she knelt upon the ice and prayed that they might find their way safely,
then trusted that they would do so, and started. After going on for a time in the storm, they
saw a small, deserted cabin not far from them which Lincoln instantly recognized as one upon
the point of land only a quarter of a mile west of Chinik, and they were happy.

They soon came into the Mission, full of gratitude, though wet, tired and hungry, for it is
so warm that there is water on the ice in places, and the snow is very heavy. They had only
one deer with them.

The two lost men came into camp an hour after Miss E. arrived, having gone past the cabin and
camp, and southward too far in their reckoning. It is never safe to travel without a compass
of some sort in this country. Mr. H. and his two men have, besides attending to the herd, staked
some gold claims while away, not far from our claims. The wind has died down, and there is
no snow falling tonight at half-past eight.

This is New Year's Eve, and the girls and boys are singing, and having a good time in the sitting-room
while I write. We are going to sit up to watch the old year out and the new year in, and have
a little song service at midnight.

This is the last day of nineteen hundred, and a memorable year it has been. How many new scenes
and how great the changes through which we have passed! What will the New Year bring? Where
will we be next year at this time? It is probably better that we do not know the future.

New Year's Day, nineteen hundred and one. This has been a good day all around, after our midnight
watch meeting, when seven of the eight persons present took a part, and we sang many songs
with the organ. At half-past twelve I retired, but the others remained up until two o'clock.

This evening the storekeeper and two others from White Mountain called to see if we did not
care to go out coasting on the hill behind the Mission, and five or six of us went. When we
got to the top of the hill the wind was so strong that I could hardly stand, and after a few
trips down the Hill we gave it up, part of our number going out to walk upon the ice, and the
rest of us going indoors. The men were invited into the Mission, and stayed for an hour, chatting
pleasantly, as there is no place for them to go except to the saloons. It is a great pity that
there is no reading room with papers and books for the miners, with the long winter before
them, and nothing to do. There is a crying need for something in this line, and if they do
not employ their time pleasantly and profitably, they will spend it unprofitably in some saloon
or gambling place. I wish I had a thousand good magazines to scatter, but I have none.

I gave Jennie her lesson, and amused both children for a time this afternoon. Yesterday the
snow drifted badly, and I fear the people who went to Council will not have a good trail on
the way home.

January second: It is pleasant to have a corner by myself in which to write and be sometimes
alone. The little northeast corner room where I sleep has a tile pipe coming up from the kitchen,
making the room warm enough except in the coldest weather. It has a north window with no double
one outside, and when the wind comes from the north I expect it will be extremely cold. From
this window I can see (when the glass is free from frost) out upon the trail to Nome and White
Mountain. Today there is water on the ice, and it has been raining and blowing. Three of the
boys returned from a four days' prospecting trip to the west, and as two of them had been sick
the whole time since they left here, they came in wet, tired and hungry, without having much
good luck to relate. I told them it was something to get back at all again, and they agreed
heartily, while eating a hot supper. An hour later and Mr. H. with the visiting preacher came
in from the reindeer station, and their staking trip, in the same condition as the three boys
had been; so a supper for them was also prepared.

Our kitchen looks like a junk shop these days, and a wet one at that, for the numbers of muckluks,
fur parkies, mittens, and other garments hung around the stove to dry are almost past counting,
and the odor is stifling; but the clothing must be dried somewhere, and there is no other place.
An engine room would be the very best spot I know for drying so many wet furs, and I wish we
had one here.

In speaking to one of the men today about prospecting my claim, I told him I would furnish
the grub, but he said very kindly, "I wouldn't take any grub from you. I've got enough, and
shall be at work there any way, so it won't take long to sink some holes in your claim," which
I thought was very good of him. I hope they will "strike it" rich.

January third: A wet, sloppy, snowy day, our "January thaw," Mr. H. says. I took the two children
out on the sled upon the ice and pushed at the handle-bars until I was reeking with perspiration,
afterwards giving Jennie her lesson at her auntie's.

There are twelve of us under the Mission roof tonight, including Miss E. and the native.

January fourth: These are great days. We have a houseful of men, nine in all, and some are
getting ready to leave tomorrow to do some staking of claims up near the station. M. said if
the musician were only here, and they could get a dog-team, he would like to get him to go
with him on a staking trip not far away. This man returned soon afterward, and M. wanted me
to ask him if he would go. I did so, and he replied that he would go, and furnish dogs if possible;
but the ones he tried to get were engaged, and that plan fell through, much to his discouragement.
Learning this, I determined to go to the captain at the hotel, and see if I could procure dogs
from him for the trip. He said yes, I could have his best dogs, and that a mail carrier is
here resting who will lend us his dogs, so that was all arranged.

Location papers then had to be written out, grub boxes packed, a tent looked up, and many things
attended to before they left, so that others in camp got an inkling of what was being done
and wanted to go along. Then M. and the musician decided to put off going until midnight, when
they would sneak quietly out of camp with their dogs and scamper away among the hills without
the others knowing it, but it could not be done, and two or three sleds followed them at midnight
in the moonlight, as is the custom with Alaska "stampeders."

January fifth: Mollie asked me today to go with her to visit her fox traps, and I immediately
decided to go. We started about half-past one in the afternoon, on foot past the cliff, but
when we had gone a short distance Mollie stopped to call back to the house. Some native boys
were cutting wood at the north door, and she motioned one to come to her. When he came, she
spoke to him in Eskimo, and he, assenting to what she said, ran back again.

"I tell Muky to come with dog-team, bring us home, you get tired by and by," she said thoughtfully,
as we trudged on again over and through the snow. The woman wore a reindeer parkie, short skirt,
and muckluks, and carried a gun on her shoulder. The snow was quite a foot deep, with a crust
on top which we broke at almost every step, and which made it hard walking. On we "mushed,"
past the cliff, the boats, and out upon the ice. The traps had been set by Mollie a week before
on the northeast shore of the bay among a few low bushes, and this was our objective point.
When we reached the first trap, which was buried in snow, but found by a certain shrub which
Mollie had in some way marked and now recognized, I threw myself upon the snow to rest and
watch her movements.

Around us we saw plenty of ptarmigan tracks, but no signs of foxes. A foot below the snow's
surface, Mollie found her trap, and proceeded to reset it. Carefully covering the trap with
a very little light snow and smoothing it nicely over, she chipped off bits of reindeer meat
from a scrap she had brought with her, scattering them invitingly around.

The scene about us was a very quiet one and wintry in the extreme. Long, low hills stretched
out on every side of the bay, and the whole earth was a great snow heap. The sky and cloud
effects were charming, fading sunshine on the hilltops making them softly pink, and very lovely;
but with deep reddish purple tints over all as the sun-ball disappeared.

One after another, four fox traps in different places were reset by Mollie, while I mushed
on behind her.

At last we saw the dog-team and Muky coming on the bay. Five dogs he had hitched to his sled,
and each wore a tiny bell at its throat, making a pretty din as they trotted. When the woman
had finished her trapping, we both climbed into the sled, the native running and calling to
the dogs, and they started for home. It was not a long ride, probably not more than a mile
and a half as we went, but while tramping through the snow crust to the traps it seemed much
longer.

I now thoroughly enjoyed the novel ride. In the dusky twilight the dogs trotted cheerfully
homeward, obeying the musical calls of their driver, and the little bells jingled merrily.
Darker and more purple grew the skies until they tinted the snow over which we were passing,
and by the time we had halted before the hotel door it was really night.

By the clock it was fifteen minutes past four and the thermometer registered fifteen degrees
below zero. Then we toasted our feet before the big heater, removed and shook out our frosty
furs, and answered the two children's questions. To these Mollie gave her explanations in Eskimo,
and I told of the ptarmigan tracks I had seen on the snow drifts.

Sunday, January sixth: Yesterday I moved into the little southeast room which was formerly
Miss J.'s. It has pretty paper on the walls, and a small heater in one corner, besides a single
cot, and I soon settled quite comfortably. The room with the bunks was needed for the men,
of whom there are so many most of the time. The room I now have has a south window, but not
a double one, and gets heavy with frost, which remains on the panes; but I can have a fire
when I want one, as the stove burns chips and short wood, of which there are always quantities
in the shed. B. tells me to use all the wood I want, as there is no shortage of fuel, nor men
to haul and cut it, which I think is very kind. A little fire while I am dressing nights and
mornings, however, is all I shall try to keep burning.

Miss J. came with Ivan, bringing several native children to visit their parents for a few hours,
but took them back with her after supper when the meeting was over, which she had held in the
kitchen. We had sixteen to supper, including natives. Afterward we went down to the beach to
see the party off for the Home. Ivan led the dogs, five in number, hitched to the big sled.
Miss J. ran alongside, the visiting preacher at the handle bar, and the little children on
the sled. After watching them off, we came home and then took a walk of a mile out upon the
ice on the White Mountain trail, which was in fairly good condition. There were six of us.
When we got back to the house, I played by request on the organ, for the three Swedish visitors
from Council.

The weather is bright and beautiful, and sixteen degrees below zero.

Monday, January seventh: The boys came in from their stampede to the creeks, and M. says they
staked us all rich if there is anything good in the ground. My claim is Number Ten, below Discovery,
on H. Creek, and sounds well, if nothing more. Of course we women are all much elated, and
talk of "our claims" very glibly, but a few sunken prospect holes will tell the story of success
or failure better than anything else.

This has been a busy day in the house until I went at half-past two in the afternoon to Mollie's
to find her ill in bed with a very bad throat. I gave Jennie and Charlie two hours of my time,
and went home, to return in the evening at Mollie's request. The poor woman was suffering severely,
and I did what I could for her, rubbing her throat with camphorated oil and turpentine and
wrapping it in thick, hot flannels. Then I assisted her to bed, rubbing her aching bones, and
left her less feverish than when I went in. The thermometer is above zero, and the weather
is pleasant.

Two men from Topkok came in to see the Recorder's books, and searched all through them without
finding what they wanted and expected to find, and then went away with sober and disappointed
faces. "Curses not loud but deep" come to our ears each day about the Commissioner's work of
recording, and many say he is now deep in dissipation at Nome, instead of attending here to
his business as he should. Miners declare him unfitted in every way for his position, and affirm
that they will depose him from office.

I went out this morning and bought a student lamp at the store, paying six dollars and a half
for it. This, with my case of coal oil, will light my room nicely, besides giving a good deal
of heat.

The Marshal and men are home from the Koyuk River, after four weeks of winter "mushing," and
say nothing about their trip. They did not manage to pull harmoniously together, and Mr. L.
returned before them.

January ninth: When I went today to the hotel to teach my pupils, I found the men in the room
cleaning the big heater, and ashes and dirt drove us out of the place, so we went upstairs
to another room in which Mollie sometimes sews, and where we found her at work on a white parkie
for the musician. I played with Jennie for a time before the lesson, and Ageetuk came in on
an errand, while Polly, the Eskimo servant, jabbered in a funny way and wabbled over the floor
like a duck, as is her habit when walking. This girl is short, fat and shapeless, with beady
black eyes, and a crafty expression, certainly not to be relied on if there is truth in physiognomy.

At the hotel all is excitement and bustle, getting the men off for the Kuskokquim River, where
the new strikes are reported. Strong new sleds have been made by the natives, grub is being
packed and dogs gotten into condition, besides a thousand other things which must be done before
the expedition is ready to start. Seeing them make such extensive preparations reminded me
that perhaps I might get the men to carry my paper and stake something for me, so, plucking
up my courage, I asked the promoter of the expedition, whom I know, if I could do this, and
was readily given permission. In a few minutes paper, pen and ink were brought in, a clerk
was instructed to draw up the paper in proper shape, which he did, and it was signed and witnessed
in due form, Mollie subscribing her name as one of the witnesses. For this I tendered my heartiest
thanks, and ran home with a light heart, already imagining myself a lucky claim owner in a
new and rich gold section on the Kuskokquim. The party of five men are to leave tomorrow morning
for the long trip of several hundred miles over the ice and snow.

Mollie advises me to have another pair of muckluks made smaller, and to keep these I am wearing
for traveling, when I will wear more inside them, so I will take my materials over tomorrow
and she will have Alice cut and sew them for me. I hope they will not make my feet look so
clumsy as do these, my first ones.

January tenth: This was a cold and windy morning, so the men at the hotel could not start out
for the Kuskokquim as they intended. Some men came to the Mission to see if they could rent
the old schoolhouse to live in, the doctor and his plucky little wife having left some weeks
ago for a camp many miles east of Chinik. After looking it over, the men have concluded to
take it, and move in soon. There are no buildings to buy or rent in this camp, nor anything
with which to build, so it is hard lines for strangers coming to Chinik. This afternoon Alma
went over with me to the hotel to stitch on Mollie's sewing machine, and I carried the deerskin
for my new footgear which Alice will make acceptably, no doubt, as she is very expert.

Mr. H., two natives and two white men, were here to supper tonight on their way to Nome by
dog-team, and are wishing to start at three in the morning in order to make the trip in two
days. M. and L. are also here, so we had seven men to supper. We had fried ham, beans, stewed
prunes, tea, and bread and butter.

This morning it was two degrees below zero, with a strong, cold wind; tonight it is fourteen
degrees below zero with no wind, and is warmer now than then. No moonlight till nearly morning,
but the stars shine brightly.

January eleventh: Mary sat up all night baking bread, and starting the men off for Nome between
three and four in the morning. I got up at nine o'clock and enjoyed the magnificent sunrise.
I went out with Ricka while she tried at the three stores to find a lining for her fur coat,
but one clerk told us that no provision for women was made by the companies, and they had nothing
on their shelves she wanted. At the hotel store she found some dark green calico at twenty-five
cents a yard, which she was obliged to take for her lining.

While I gave Jennie her lesson her mother came from her hunting, and had shot six ptarmigan,
having hurt her finger on the trigger of the gun. Mollie studies a little while each day, when
Jennie has finished her lesson.

There is a sick Eskimo woman here now who was brought in from the reindeer camp yesterday,
and Mollie has her upstairs in the sewing room on a cot. Mary, the nurse, went over with me
to see her, and says she has rheumatic fever. She seems to be suffering very much, and cannot
move her hands or limbs.

January twelfth: At eight o'clock today the thermometer stood at forty-one degrees below zero,
but registered thirty-two degrees during the middle of the day, and the houses are not so warm
as they have been.

When I called for Jennie at the hotel today I found her crying with pain in her leg, so she
could not take a lesson, but I sent out for little Charlie who came running to me with outstretched
arms. He is a dear little child, and I am getting very fond of him. It is some weeks since
Jennie first began crying occasionally with pain, and her parents cannot understand it, unless
it is caused by a fall she had on the steamer coming from San Francisco last summer, and of
which they thought nothing at the time. I sincerely hope she is not going to be very ill, with
no doctor nearer than White Mountain. The sick woman still suffers, though they are doing what
they can for her. The captain requested me to bring our medical books over, or send them, that
he can look up remedies and treatment of rheumatic fever, for that is what she no doubt has.

While seated at the organ an hour later, in came the storekeeper and his clerk, followed soon
after by the captain and musician. Then we had music and solos by the last named gentleman,
and the knitting needles kept rapidly flying. At eleven o'clock they went out into the intense
cold, which sparkled like diamonds, but which pinched like nippers the exposed faces and hands.

Here is another cold, quiet day, with the thermometer at thirty-five degrees below zero, and
it is a first class one to spend by the fire. We have read, slept, eaten, and fed the fires;
with only one man, three girls and myself in the house. At ten in the evening G. and B. came
in from a five days "mushing" trip on the trails, being nearly starved and frozen. They were
covered with snow and icicles, their shirts and coats stiff with frost from steam of their
bodies, as they ran behind the sled to keep warm. A hot supper of chicken (canned), coffee,
and bread and butter was prepared in haste for them, and they toasted themselves until bedtime.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE LITTLE SICK CHILD.

The winter is rapidly passing, and so far without monotony, though what it will bring to us
before spring remains to be seen. Little Jennie has been suffering more and more with her leg
of late, and her papa sent for the doctor at White Mountain, who came today by dog-team. The
child's mother has had a spring cot made for her, and she was put to bed by the doctor, who
says the knee trouble is a very serious one, and she must have good nursing, attention being
also paid to her diet. The Eskimos are all exceedingly fond of seal and reindeer meat, and
Jennie's Auntie Apuk or grandmother will often bring choice tidbits to the child at bedtime,
or between meals, when she ought not to eat anything, much less such hearty food. When the
little child sees the good things, she, of course, wants them, and having been humored in every
whim, she must still be, she thinks, especially when she is ill. A problem then is here presented
which I may help to solve for them. Jennie and I are growing very fond of each other, and she
will do some things for me which she will not do for others who have obeyed her wishes so long.
I begin by round-about coaxing and reasoning, and get some other idea into her mind, until
the plate of seal meat is partially forgotten, and does not seem so attractive at nine in the
evening as when presented with loving smiles by her old grandmother, who does sometimes resent
the alternative, but is still exceedingly solicitous that the little girl should recover. As
grandmother understands English imperfectly, Mollie is obliged to reiterate the doctor's orders
in Eskimo, making them as imperative as possible, and the poor old Eskimo woman goes home with
the promise that Jennie shall have some of the dainties at meal-time on the morrow.

In appearance grandmother is still somewhat rugged, being a large woman, with an intelligent
face, which expresses very forcibly her inner feelings, and being, probably, somewhere between
sixty and seventy years of age. Her husband, who has been dead only a year or two, was much
beloved by her, and no reference to him is ever made in her presence, without a flow of tears
from her eyes. Her love of home and kindred seems very strong, and her devotion to little Jennie
amounts almost to idolatry, so the solicitude expressed by the good woman is only a part of
what she really feels, but which is shown in hundreds of ways. When the doctor settled the
little girl in her bed she adjusted a heavy weight to the foot on the limb which has given
her so much trouble, and now the grief of Mollie and her mother is unbounded. Poor old grandmother
wipes her eyes continually, leaving the house quickly at times to rush home and mourn alone,
as she is so constrained to do, her sorrow for her darling's sufferings being very sincere.
Later she comes in after doing her best at courage building, tiptoes her way in to see if her
pet is sleeping or awake, and bringing something if possible, with which to amuse or interest
the invalid. However great is the grief of the women, that of the child's papa is equally sad
to see, and he, poor man, is forced to face the probability of a long and dreary winter, if
not a lifetime of suffering for his darling child. One cannot help seeing his misery, though
he tries like a Trojan to hide it, and keeps as cheerful as possible to encourage others. He
is always an invalid himself.

The main topic of interest to Jennie now is the little stranger who has come to live with her
Auntie Apuk, and whom she is so desirous of seeing that she almost forgets her trouble and
suffering, asking constantly about its size, color, eyes, hair, hands and feet. She counts
the days before she can see it, and puzzles greatly over the fact of its not possessing a name,
her big black eyes getting larger and blacker as she wonders where one will be found. Little
Charlie is allowed in to see Jennie at times, and wonders greatly to find her always in bed,
asking many questions in his childish Eskimo treble, and patting her hand sympathetically while
standing at her side.

"Mamma," said he the other day to Mollie in Eskimo, with a pleased smile on his face, and when
the two were alone, "the ladie loves me."

"How do you know?" asked Mollie.

"Because," he said shyly, putting his little arms about her neck, "because she kissed me."
Whereupon Mollie did the same, and assured him of her own love, always providing, of course,
that he was a good boy, and did what papa and mamma told him to do.

This conversation Mollie reported to me a few days after it took place, and I assured her with
tears welling up in my eyes that the little child had made no mistake. Strange action of the
subjective mind of one person over another, even to the understanding by this Eskimo baby of
a stranger heart, and that one so unresponsive as mine. The child, deprived as he was of an
own mother's love, still hungered and thirsted for it, and he was quick to discern in my eyes
and voice the secret for which he was looking. How I should enjoy giving my whole time to these
two children, and they really do need me to teach and care for them; but I am dividing myself
between them and the Mission, and the winter days are very short.

The thermometer today registered fourteen degrees below zero, against twenty-eight yesterday
and thirty below the day before that.

Mr. H. has returned from Nome, bringing me a package of kodak films sent from Oakland, Cal.,
last August, and which I never expected to receive after so long a time. I was delighted to
get them, and now I can kodak this whole district, above and below.

Mollie is trying to study English a little, but with many interruptions on every hand. The
big living room is light and warm, our only study place, and yet the rendezvous of all who
care to drop in, regardless of invitations, making it somewhat difficult for us to concentrate
our attention on the lessons. The Marshal, the bartender, the clerks, cooks, miners, natives,
strangers and all come into this room to chat, see and inquire for Jennie, play with Charlie,
and get warm by the fire. Here is an opportunity of a lifetime to study human nature, and I
am glad, for it is a subject always full of interest to me, though I frequently feel literally
choked with tobacco smoke, and wish often for a private sitting-room.

Sunday, January twentieth: We are snuggled indoors by the fires under the most terrible blizzard
of the season so far, with furious gales, falling and drifting snow, and intense cold. It is
impossible to keep the house as warm as usual, and I have eaten my meals today dressed in my
fur coat, my seat at table being at the end with my back close to the frosty north window.
Though this is the place of honor at the board, and the missionary's seat when he eats in the
Mission, still it is a chilly berth on occasions, and this is decidedly one.

The dining-room contains, besides the north window, one on the south side as well, and though
both are covered with storm windows, the frost and ice is several inches thick upon the panes,
precluding any possibility of receiving light from either quarter unless the sun shines very
brightly indeed, and then only a subdued light is admitted. During the night the house shook
constantly in the terrific gale, rattling loose boards and shingles, and I was kept awake for
several hours.

At night I am in the habit of tossing my fur coat upon my bed for the warmth there is in it,
as I am not the possessor of a fur robe, as all persons should be who winter here. Furs are
the only things to keep the intense cold out in such weather as we are now having, but with
some management I get along fairly well.

A reindeer skin not in use from the attic makes my bed soft and warm underneath, my coat over
my blankets answers the same purpose, and the white fox baby robe from the old wooden cradle
upstairs makes a soft, warm rug on the floor upon which to step out in the morning. Wool slippers
are never off my feet when my muckluks are resting, and I manage by keeping a supply of kindlings
and small wood in my box by the stove, to have a warm fire by which to dress.

These days we do not often rise early, and ten o'clock frequently finds us at breakfast, but
we retire correspondingly late, and midnight is quite a customary hour lately. Today we passed
the time in eating, sleeping, singing, and reading. A visiting Swedish preacher came over a
few days ago from the Home, and is storm-bound in the Mission. He is a large, heavy man, with
a hearty voice and hand grip, and is a graduate of Yale College, using the best of English,
having filled one of the vacant Nome pulpits for several weeks last fall before coming to Golovin.

Today he has read one of Talmage's sermons to us, and we have sung Gospel songs galore, in
both Swedish and English, with myself as organist. When this is tired of, the smaller instruments
are taken out, and Ricka has the greatest difficulty in preventing Alma from amusing the assembled
company with her mandolin solo, "Johnny Get Your Hair Cut," the young lady's red lips growing
quite prominent while she insists upon playing it.

"Good music is always acceptable, Ricka, and on Sunday as well as on any other day, so I cannot
see why you will not let me play as I want to. I do not think it a sin to play on the mandolin
on Sunday. Do you, Pastor F.?" asked Alma of the preacher, appealingly, and in all innocence.

What could he say to her? He laughed.

"O, no," said Ricka, "I do not say that mandolin music is sinful on Sunday, and if you would
play 'Nearer My God to Thee,' or some such piece, and not play 'Johnny,' I should not object."
And she now looked at the preacher and me for reinforcements.

Alma is not, however, easily put down, and the contest usually winds up with Ricka going into
the kitchen where she cannot hear the silly strains of "Johnny," which Alma is picking abstractedly
from the strings of the instrument, while the preacher continues his reading, and I go off
to my room.

