Aunt Sarah loved the golden flowers, which always appeared to be nodding to the sun, and her
sunflowers were particularly fine, some being as much as fifty inches in circumference.

A bouquet of the smaller ones was usually to be seen in a quaint, old, blue-flowered, gray
jar on the farm house veranda in Summertime. Earlier in the season blossoms of the humble artichoke,
which greatly resemble small sunflowers, or large yellow daisies, filled the jar. Failing either
of these, she gathered large bouquets of golden-rod or wild carrot blossoms, both of which
grew in profusion along the country lanes and roadside near the farm. But the old gray jar
never held a bouquet more beautiful than the one of bright, blue "fringed gentians," gathered
by Aunt Sarah in the Fall of the year, several miles distant from the farm.

    "There's no deny'n women are foolish,
    God A'mighty made them to match the men."

A short time after her arrival at the farm Mary poured into the sympathetic ear of Aunt Sarah
her hopes and plans. Her lover, Ralph Jackson, to whom she had become engaged the past Winter,
held a position with the Philadelphia Electric Company, and was studying hard outside working
hours. His ambition was to become an electrical engineer. He was getting fair wages, and wished
Mary to marry him at once. She confessed she loved Ralph too well to marry him, ignorant as
she was of economical housekeeping and cooking.

Mary, early left an orphan, had studied diligently to fit herself for a kindergarten teacher,
so she would be capable of earning her own living on leaving school, which accounted for her
lack of knowledge of housework, cooking, etc.

Aunt Sarah, loving Mary devotedly, and knowing the young man of her choice to be clean, honest
and worthy, promised to do all in her power to make their dream of happiness come true. Learning
from Mary that Ralph was thin and pale from close confinement, hard work and study, and of
his intention of taking a short vacation, she determined he should spend it on the farm, where
she would be able to "mother him."

"You acted sensibly, Mary," said her Aunt, "in refusing to marry Ralph at the present time,
realizing your lack of knowledge of housework and inability to manage a home. Neither would
you know how to spend the money provided by him economically and wisely, and, in this age of
individual efficiency, a business knowledge of housekeeping is almost as important in making
a happy home as is love. I think it quite as necessary that a woman who marries should understand
housekeeping in all its varied branches as that the man who marries should understand his trade
or profession; for, without the knowledge of means to gain a livelihood (however great his
love for a woman), how is the man to hold that woman's love and affection unless he is able
by his own exertions to provide her with necessities, comforts, and, perhaps, in later years,
luxuries? And in return, the wife should consider it her duty and pleasure to know how to do
her work systematically; learn the value of different foods and apply the knowledge gained
daily in preparing them; study to keep her husband in the best of health, physically and mentally.
Then will his efficiency be greater and he will be enabled to do his 'splendid best' in whatever
position in life he is placed, be he statesman or hod-carrier. What difference, if an honest
heart beat beneath a laborer's hickory shirt, or one of fine linen? 'One hand, if it's true,
is as good as another, no matter how brawny or rough.' Mary, do not think the trivial affairs
of the home beneath your notice, and do not imagine any work degrading which tends to the betterment
of the home. Remember, 'Who sweeps a room as for Thy law, makes that and the action fine.'

"Our lives are all made up of such small, commonplace things and this is such a commonplace
old world, Mary. 'The commonplace earth and the commonplace sky make up the commonplace day,'
and 'God must have loved common people, or He would not have made so many of them.' And, what
if we are commonplace? We cannot all be artists, poets and sculptors. Yet, how frequently we
see people in commonplace surroundings, possessing the soul of an artist, handicapped by physical
disability or lack of means! We are all necessary in the great, eternal plan. 'Tis not good
deeds alone for which we receive our reward, but for the performance of duty well done, in
however humble circumstances our lot is cast. Is it not Lord Houghton who says: 'Do not grasp
at the stars, but do life's plain, common work as it comes, certain that daily duties and daily
bread are the sweetest things of life.' I consider a happy home in the true sense of the word
one of the greatest of blessings. How important is the work of the housemother and homemaker
who creates the home! There can be no happiness there unless the wheels of the domestic machinery
are oiled by loving care and kindness to make them run smoothly, and the noblest work a woman
can do is training and rearing her children. Suffrage, the right of woman to vote; will it
not take women from the home? I am afraid the home will then suffer in consequence. Will man
accord woman the same reverence she has received in the past? Should she have equal political
rights? A race lacking respect for women would never advance socially or politically. I think
women could not have a more important part in the government of the land than in rearing and
educating their children to be good, useful citizens. In what nobler work could women engage
than in work to promote the comfort and well-being of the ones they love in the home? I say,
allow men to make the laws, as God and nature planned. I think women should keep to the sphere
God made them for--the home. Said Gladstone, 'Woman is the most perfect when most womanly.'
There is nothing, I think, more despicable than a masculine, mannish woman, unless it be an
effeminate, sissy man. Dr. Clarke voiced my sentiments when he said: 'Man is not superior to
woman, nor woman to man. The relation of the sexes is one of equality, not of better or worse,
of higher and lower. The loftiest ideal of humanity demands that each shall be perfect in its
kind and not be hindered in its best work. The lily is not inferior to the rose, nor the oak
superior to the clover; yet the glory of the lily is one and the glory of the oak is another,
and the use of the oak is not the use of the clover.'

"This present-day generation demands of women greater efficiency in the home than ever before.
And Mary, many of the old-time industries which I had been accustomed to as a girl have passed
away. Electricity and numerous labor-saving devices make household tasks easier, eliminating
some altogether. When housekeeping you will find time to devote to many important questions
of the day which we old-time housekeepers never dreamed of having. Considerable thought should
be given to studying to improve and simplify conditions of the home-life. It is your duty.
Obtain books; study food values and provide those foods which nourish the body, instead of
spending time uselessly preparing dainties to tempt a jaded appetite. Don't spoil Ralph when
you marry him. Give him good, wholesome food, and plenty of it; but although the cooking of
food takes up much of a housekeeper's time, it is not wise to allow it to take up one's time
to the exclusion of everything else. Mary, perhaps my views are old-fashioned. I am not a 'new
woman' in any sense of the word. The new woman may take her place beside man in the business
world and prove equally as efficient, but I do not think woman should invade man's sphere any
more than he should assume her duties."

"Aunt Sarah, I am surprised to hear you talk in that manner about woman's sphere," replied
Mary, "knowing what a success you are in the home, and how beautifully you manage everything
you undertake. I felt, once you recognized the injustice done woman in not allowing them to
vote, you would feel differently, and since women are obliged to obey the laws, should they
not have a voice in choosing the lawmakers? When you vote, it will not take you out of the
home. You and Uncle John will merely stop on your way to the store, and instead of Uncle John
going in to write and register what he thinks should be done and by whom it should be done,
you too will express your opinion. This will likely be twice a year. By doing this, no woman
loses her womanliness, goodness or social position, and to these influences the vote is but
another influence. I know there are many things in connection with the right of equal suffrage
with what you do not sympathize.

"Aunt Sarah, let me tell you about a dear friend of mine who taught school with me in the city.
Emily taught a grammar grade, and did not get the same salary the men teachers received for
doing the same work, which I think was unfair. Emily studied and frequently heard and read
about what had been done in Colorado and other States where women vote. She got us all interested,
and the more we learned about the cause the harder we worked for it. Emily married a nice,
big, railroad man. They bought a pretty little house in a small town, had three lovely children
and were very happy. More than ever as time passed Emily realized the need of woman's influence
in the community. It is true, I'll admit, Aunt Sarah, housekeeping and especially home-making
are the great duties of every woman, and to provide the most wholesome, nourishing food possible
for the family is the duty of every mother, as the health, comfort and happiness of the family
depend so largely on the common sense (only another name for efficiency) and skill of the homemaker,
and the wise care and though she expends on the preparation of wholesome, nutritious food in
the home, either the work of her own hands or prepared under her direction. You can not look
after these duties without getting outside of your home, especially when you live like Emily,
in a town where the conditions are so different from living as you do on a farm in the country.
Milk, bread and water are no longer controlled by the woman in her home, living in cities and
towns; and just because women want to look out for their families they should have a voice
in the larger problems of municipal housekeeping. To return to Emily, she did not bake her
own bread, as you do, neither did she keep a cow, but bought milk and bread to feed the children.
Wasn't it her duty to leave the home and see where these products were produced, and if they
were sanitary? And, knowing the problem outside the home would so materially affect the health,
and perhaps lives, of her children, she felt it her distinctive duty to keep house in a larger
sense. When the children became old enough to attend school, Emily again took up her old interest
in schools. She began to realize how much more just it would be if an equal number of women
were on the school board."

"But what did the husband think of all this?" inquired Aunt Sarah, dubiously.

"Oh, Tom studied the case, too, at first just to tease Emily, but he soon became as enthusiastic
as Emily. He said, 'The first time you are privileged to vote, Emily, I will hire an automobile
to take you to the polls in style.' But poor Emily was left alone with her children last winter.
Tom died of typhoid fever. Contracted it from the bad drainage. They lived in a town not yet
safeguarded with sewerage. Now Emily is a taxpayer as well as a mother, and she has no say
as far as the town and schools are concerned. There are many cases like that, where widows
and unmarried women own property, and they are in no way represented. And think of the thousands
and thousands of women who have no home to stay in and no babies to look after."

"Mercy, Mary! Do stop to take breath. I never thought when I started this subject I would have
an enthusiastic suffragist with whom to deal."

"I am glad you started the subject, Aunt Sarah, because there is so much to be said for the
cause. I saw you glance at the clock and I see it is time to prepare supper. But some day I'm
going to stop that old clock and bring down some of my books on 'Woman's Suffrage' and you'll
he surprised to hear what they have done in States where equal privileges were theirs. I am
sure 'twill not be many years before every State in the Union will give women the right of
suffrage."

       *       *       *       *       *

After Mary retired that evening Aunt Sarah had a talk with her John, whom she knew needed help
on the farm. As a result of the conference, Mary wrote to Ralph the following day, asking him
to spend his vacation on the farm as a "farm hand." Needless to say, the offer was gladly accepted
by Ralph, if for no other reason than to be near the girl he loved.

Ralph came the following week--"a strapping big fellow," to quote Uncle John, being several
inches over six feet.

"All you need, young chap," said Mary's Uncle, "is plenty of good, wholesome food of Sarah's
and Mary's preparing, and I'll see that you get plenty of exercise in the fresh air to give
you an appetite to enjoy it, and you'll get a healthy coat of tan on your pale cheeks before
the Summer is ended."

Ralph Jackson, or "Jack," as he was usually called by his friends, an orphan like Mary, came
of good, old Quaker stock, his mother having died immediately after giving birth to her son.
His father, supposed to be a wealthy contractor, died when Ralph was seventeen, having lost
his fortune through no fault of his own, leaving Ralph penniless.

Ralph Jackson possessed a good face, a square, determined jaw, sure sign of a strong will and
quick temper; these Berserker traits he inherited from his father; rather unusual in a Quaker.
He possessed a head of thick, coarse, straight brown hair, and big honest eyes. One never doubted
his word, once it had been given. 'Twas good as his bond. This trait he inherited also from
his father, noted for his truth and integrity. Ralph was generous to a fault. When a small
boy he was known to take off his shoes and give them to a poor little Italian (who played a
violin on the street for pennies) and go home barefoot.

Ralph loved Mary devotedly, not only because she fed him well at the farm, as were his forefathers,
the "Cave Men," fed by their mates in years gone by, but he loved her first for her sweetness
of disposition and lovable ways; later, for her quiet unselfishness and lack of temper over
trifles--so different from himself.

When speaking to Mary of his other fine qualities, Aunt Sarah said: "Ralph is a manly young
fellow; likeable, I'll admit, but his hasty temper is a grave fault in my eyes."

Mary replied, "Don't you think men are very queer, anyway, Aunt Sarah? I do, and none of us
is perfect."

To Mary, Ralph's principal charm lay in his strong, forceful way of surmounting difficulties,
she having a disposition so different. Mary had a sweet, motherly way, seldom met with in so
young a girl, and this appealed to Ralph, he having never known "mother love," and although
not at all inclined to be sentimental, he always called Mary his "Little Mother Girl" because
of her motherly ways.

"Well," continued Mary's Aunt, "a quick temper is one of the most difficult faults to overcome
that flesh is heir to, but Ralph, being a young man of uncommon good sense, may in time curb
his temper and learn to control it, knowing that unless be does so it will handicap him in
his career. Still, a young girl will overlook many faults in the man she loves. Mary, ere marrying,
one should be sure that no love be lacking to those entering these sacred bonds. 'Tis not for
a day, but for a lifetime, to the right thinking. Marriage, as a rule, is too lightly entered
into in this Twentieth Century of easy divorces, and but few regard matrimony in its true holy
relation, ordained by our Creator. If it be founded on the tower of enduring love and not ephemeral
passion, it is unassailable, lasting in faith and honor until death breaks the sacred union
and annuls the vows pledged at God's holy altar."

"Well," replied Mary, as her Aunt paused to take breath, "I am sure of my love for Ralph."

"God grant you may both be happy," responded her Aunt.

"Mary, did you ever hear this Persian proverb? You will understand why I have so much to say
after hearing it."

    "'Says a proverb of Persia provoking mirth;
      When this world was created by order divine.
    Ten measures of talk were put down on the earth,
      And the woman took nine.'"

Speaking to Mary of life on the farm one day, Ralph laughingly said: "I am taught something
new every day. Yesterday your Uncle told me it was 'time to plant corn when oak leaves were
large as squirrels' ears.'" Ralph worked like a Trojan. In a short time both his hands and
face took on a butternut hue. He became strong and robust. Mary called him her "Cave Man,"
and it taxed the combined efforts of Aunt Sarah and Mary to provide food to satisfy the ravenous
appetite Mary's "Cave Man" developed. And often, after a busy day, tired but happy, Mary fell
asleep at night to the whispering of the leaves of the Carolina poplar outside her bedroom window.

But country life on a farm has its diversions. One of Mary's and Ralph's greatest pleasures
after a busy day at the farm was a drive about the surrounding country early Summer evenings,
frequently accompanied by either Elizabeth or Pauline Schmidt, their nearest neighbors.

One of the first places visited by them was a freak of nature called "Rocky Valley," situated
at no great distance from the farm.

CHAPTER VII

PROFESSOR SCHMIDT.

A small country place named "Five Oaks," a short distance from "Clear Spring" farm, was owned
by a very worthy and highly-educated, but rather eccentric, German professor. He came originally
from Heidelberg, but had occupied the position of Professor of German for many years in a noted
university in a near by town. A kind, warm-hearted, old-fashioned gentleman was the Professor;
a perfect Lord Chesterfield in manners. Very tall, thin almost to emaciation, although possessed
of excellent health; refined, scholarly looking: a rather long, hooked nose, faded, pale-blue
eyes; snowy, flowing "Lord Dundreary" whiskers, usually parted in the centre and twisted to
a point on either side with the exceedingly long, bony fingers of his well-kept, aristocratic-looking
white hands. He had an abrupt, quick, nervous manner when speaking. A fringe of thin, white
hair showed at the lower edge of the black silk skull cap which he invariably wore about home,
and in the absence of this covering for his bald head, he would not have looked natural to
his friends.

The Professor always wore a suit of well-brushed, "shiny" black broadcloth, and for comfort
old-fashioned soft kid "gaiters," with elastic in the sides. He was a man with whom one did
not easily become acquainted, having very decided opinions on most subjects. He possessed exquisite
taste, a passionate love of music, flowers and all things beautiful; rather visionary, poetical
and a dreamer; he was not practical, like his wife; warm-hearted, impulsive, energetic Frau
Schmidt, who was noted for her executive abilities. I can imagine the old Professor saying
as Mohammed has been quoted as saying, "Had I two loaves, I would sell one and buy hyacinths
to feed my soul." Impulsive, generous to a fault, quick to take offense, withal warm-hearted,
kind and loyal to his friends, he was beloved by the students, who declared that "Old Snitzy"
always played fair when he was obliged to reprimand them for their numerous pranks, which ended
sometimes, I am obliged to confess, with disastrous results. The dignified old Professor would
have raised his mild, blue, spectacled eyes in astonishment had he been so unfortunate as to
have overheard the boys, to whom he was greatly attached, call their dignified preceptor by
such a nickname.

The Professor's little black-eyed German wife, many years younger than her husband, had been,
before her marriage, teacher of domestic science in a female college in a large city. "She
was a most excellent housekeeper," to quote the Professor, and "a good wife and mother."

The family consisted of "Fritz," a boy of sixteen, with big, innocent, baby-blue eyes like
his father, who idolized his only son, who was alike a joy and a torment. Fritz attended the
university in a near-by town, and was usually head of the football team. He was always at the
front in any mischief whatever, was noted for getting into scrapes innumerable through his
love of fun, yet he possessed such a good-natured, unselfish, happy-go-lucky disposition that
one always forgave him.

Black-eyed, red-cheeked Elizabeth was quick and impulsive, like her mother. A very warm and
lasting friendship sprung up between merry Elizabeth and serious Mary Midleton during Mary's
Summer on the farm, although not at all alike in either looks or disposition, and Elizabeth
was Mary's junior by several years.

The third, last and least of the Professor's children was Pauline, or "Pollykins," as she was
always called by her brother Fritz, the seven-year-old pet and baby of the family. A second
edition of Fritz, the same innocent, questioning, violet-blue eyes, fair complexion, a kissable
little mouth and yellow, kinky hair, she won her way into every one's heart and became greatly
attached to Mary, who was usually more patient with the little maid (who, I must confess, was
sometimes very willful) than was her sister Elizabeth. Mary, who had never been blessed with
a sister, dearly loved children, and thought small "Polly" adorable, and never wearied telling
her marvelous fairy tales.

CHAPTER VIII.

USES OF AN OLD-FASHIONED WARDROBE.

Shortly after Mary's advent at the farm she one day said: "Aunt Sarah, the contents of this
old trunk are absolutely worthless to me; perhaps they may be used by you for carpet rags."

"Mary Midleton!" exclaimed Aunt Sarah, in horrified tones, "you extravagant girl. I see greater
possibilities in that trunk of partly-worn clothing than, I suppose, a less economically-inclined
woman than I ever would have dreamed of."

Mary handed her Aunt two blue seersucker dresses, one plain, the other striped. "They have
both shrunken, and are entirely too small for me," said Mary.

"Well," said her Aunt, considering, "they might be combined in one dress, but you need aprons
for kitchen work more useful than those little frilly, embroidered affairs you are wearing.
We should make them into serviceable aprons to protect your dresses. Mary, neatness is an attribute
that every self-respecting housewife should assiduously cultivate, and no one can be neat in
a kitchen without a suitable apron to protect one from grime, flour and dust."

"What a pretty challis dress; its cream-colored ground sprinkled over with pink rose buds!"

Mary sighed. "I always did love that dress, Aunt Sarah, 'Twas so becoming, and he--he--admired
it so!"

"And HE, can do so still," replied Aunt Sarah, with a merry twinkle in her kind, clear, gray
eyes, "for that pale-green suesine skirt, slightly faded, will make an excellent lining, with
cotton for an interlining, and pale green Germantown yarn with which to tie the comfortable.
At small cost you'll have a dainty, warm spread which will be extremely pretty in the home
you are planning with HIM. I have several very pretty-old-style patchwork quilts in a box in
the attic which I shall give you when you start housekeeping. That pretty dotted, ungored Swiss
skirt will make dainty, ruffled sash curtains for bedroom windows. Mary, sometimes small beginnings
make great endings; if you make the best of your small belongings, some day your homely surroundings
will be metamorphosed into what, in your present circumstances, would seem like extravagant
luxuries. An economical young couple, beginning life with a homely, home-made rag carpet, have
achieved in middle age, by their own energy and industry, carpets of tapestry and rich velvet,
and costly furniture in keeping; but, never--never, dear, are they so valued, I assure you,
as those inexpensive articles, conceived by our inventive brain and manufactured by our own
deft fingers during our happy Springtime of life when, with our young lover husband, we built
our home nest on the foundation of pure, unselfish, self-sacrificing love."

Aunt Sarah sighed; memory led her far back to when she had planned her home with her lover,
John Landis, still her lover, though both have grown gray together, and shared alike the joys
and sorrows of the passing years. Aunt Sarah had always been the perfect "housemother" or "Haus
Frau," as the Germans phrase it, and on every line of her matured face could be read an anxious
care for the family welfare. Truly could it be said of her, in the language of Henry Ward Beecher:
"Whoever makes home seem to the young dearer and happier is a public benefactor."

Aunt Sarah said earnestly to Mary, "I wish it were possible for me to impart to young, inexperienced
girls, about to become housewives and housemothers, a knowledge of those small economics, so
necessary to health and prosperity, taught me by many years of hard work, mental travail, experience
and some failures. In this extravagant Twentieth Century economy is more imperative than formerly.
We feel that we need so much more these days than our grandmothers needed; and what we need,
or feel that we need, is so costly. The housemother has larger problems today than yesterday.

"Every husband should give his wife an allowance according to his income, so that she will
be able to systematize her buying and occasionally obtain imperishable goods at less cost.
Being encouraged thus to use her dormant economical powers; she will become a powerful factor
in the problem of home-making along lines that will essentially aid her husband in acquiring
a comfortable competency, if not a fortune. Then she will have her husband's interest truly
at heart; will study to spend his money carefully, and to the best advantage; and she herself,
even, will be surprised at the many economies which will suggest themselves to save his hard-earned
money when she handles that money herself, which certainly teaches her the saving habit and
the value of money.

"The majority of housewives of today aren't naturally inclined to be extravagant or careless.
It is rather that they lack the knowledge and experience of spending money, and spending it
to the best advantage for themselves and their household needs.

"'Tis a compulsory law in England, I have heard, to allow a wife pin money, according to a
man's means. 'Tis a most wise law. To a loyal wife and mother it gives added force, dignity
and usefulness to have a sufficient allowance and to be allowed unquestioningly to spend that
money to her best ability. Her husband, be he a working or professional man, would find it
greatly to his advantage in the home as well as in his business and less of a drain on his
bank account should he give his wife a suitable allowance and trust her to spend it according
to her own intelligence and thrift.

"Child, many a man is violently prejudiced against giving a young wife money; many allow her
to run up bills, to her hurt and to his, rather than have her, even in her household expenditure,
independent of his supervision. I sincerely hope, dear, that your intended, Ralph Jackson,
will be superior to this male idiosyncrasy, to term it mildly, and allow you a stated sum monthly.
The home is the woman's kingdom, and she should be allowed to think for it, to buy for it,
and not to be cramped by lack of money to do as she thinks best for it."

"But, Aunt Sarah, some housewives are so silly that husbands cannot really be blamed for withholding
money from them and preventing them from frittering it away in useless extravagance."

"Mary, wise wives should not suffer for those who are silly and extravagant. I don't like to
be sarcastic, but with the majority of the men, silliness appeals to them more than common
sense. Men like to feel their superiority to us. However, though inexperienced, Mary, you aren't
silly or extravagant, and Ralph could safely trust you with his money. It makes a woman so
self-respecting, puts her on her mettle, to have money to do as she pleases with, to be trusted,
relied upon as a reasoning, responsible being. A man, especially a young husband, makes a grave
mistake when he looks upon his wife as only a toy to amuse him in his leisure moments and not
as one to be trusted to aid him in his life work. A trusted young housewife, with a reasonable
and regular allowance at her command, be she ever so inexperienced, will soon plan to have
wholesome, nutritious food at little cost, instead of not knowing until a half hour before
meal time what she will serve. She would save money and the family would be better nourished;
nevertheless, I would impress it on the young housewife not to be too saving or practice too
close economy, especially when buying milk and eggs, as there is nothing more nutritious or
valuable. A palatable macaroni and cheese; eggs or a combination of eggs and milk, are dishes
which may be substituted occasionally, at less expense, for meat. A pound of macaroni and cheese
equals a pound of steak in food value. Take time and trouble to see that all food be well cooked
and served, both in an attractive and appetizing manner. Buy the cheaper cuts of stewing meats,
and by long, slow simmering, they will become sweet and tender and of equal nutritive value
as higher priced sirloins and tenderloins.

"But, Mary, I've not yet finished that trunk and its contents. That slightly-faded pink chambray
I'll cut up into quilt blocks. Made up with white patches, and quilted nicely, a pretty quilt
lined with white, will be evolved. I have such a pretty design of pink and white called the
'Winding Way,' very simple to make. The beauty of the quilt consists altogether in the manner
in which the blocks are put together, or it might be made over the pattern called 'The Flying
Dutchman.' From that tan linen skirt may be made a laundry bag, shoe pocket, twine bag, a collar
bag and a table runner, the only expense being several skeins of green embroidery silk, and
a couple yards of green cord to draw the bags up with, and a couple of the same-hued skirt
braids for binding edges, and," teasingly, "Mary, you might embroider Ralph Jackson's initials
on the collar and laundry bag."

Mary blushed rosily red and exclaimed in an embarrassed manner, most bewitchingly, "Oh!"

Aunt Sarah laughed. She thought to have Mary look that way 'twas worth teasing her.

"Well, Mary, we can in leisure moments, from that coarse, white linen skirt which you have
discarded, make bureau scarfs, sideboard cover, or a set of scalloped table mats to place under
hot dishes on your dining-room table. I will give you pieces of asbestos to slip between the
linen mats when finished. They are a great protection to the table. You could also make several
small guest towels with deep, hemstitched ends with your initials on. You embroider so beautifully,
and the drawn work you do is done as expertly as that of the Mexican women."

"Oh, Aunt Sarah, how ingenious you are."

"And, Mary, your rag carpet shall not be lacking. We shall tear up those partly-worn muslin
skirts into strips one-half inch in width, and use the dyes left over from dyeing Easter eggs.
I always save the dye for this purpose, they come in such pretty, bright colors. The rags,
when sewed together with some I have in the attic, we'll have woven into a useful carpet for
the home you are planning.'

"Oh! Aunt Sarah," exclaimed Mary, "do you mean a carpet like the one in the spare bedroom?"

"Yes, my dear, exactly like that, if you wish."

"Indeed I do, and I think one like that quite good enough to have in a dining-room. I think
it so pretty. It does not look at all like a common rag carpet."

"No, my dear, it is nothing very uncommon. It is all in the way it is woven. Instead of having
two gay rainbow stripes about three inches wide running through the length of the carpet, I
had it woven with the ground work white and brown chain to form checks. Then about an inch
apart were placed two threads of two shades of red woolen warp, alternating with two threads
of two shades of green, across the whole width, running the length of the carpet. It has been
greatly admired, as it is rather different from that usually woven. All the rag carpets I found
in the house when we moved here, made by John's mother, possessed very wide stripes of rainbow
colors, composed of shaded reds, yellows, blues and greens. You can imagine how very gorgeous
they were, and so very heavy. Many of the country weavers use linen chain or warp instead of
cotton, and always use wool warp for the stripes."

"Aunt Sarah, I want something so very much for the Colonial bedroom I should like to have when
I have a home of my very own."

"What is it, dear? Anything, e'en to the half of my kingdom," laughingly replied her Aunt.

"Why, I'd love to have several rag rugs like those in your bedroom, which you call 'New Colonial'
rugs."

"Certainly, my dear. They are easily made from carpet rags. I have already planned in my mind
a pretty rag rug for you, to be made from your old, garnet merino shirtwaist, combined with
your discarded cravenette stormcoat.

"And you'll need some pretty quilts, also," said her Aunt.

"I particularly admire the tree quilts," said Mary.

"You may have any one you choose; the one called 'Tree of Paradise,' another called 'Pineapple
Design,' which was originally a border to 'Fleur de lis' quilt or 'Pine Tree,' and still another
called 'Tree of Life,' and 'The Lost Rose in the Wilderness.'"

"They are all so odd," said Mary, "I scarcely know which one I think prettiest."

"All are old-fashioned quilts, which I prize highly," continued her Aunt. "Several I pieced
together when a small girl, I think old-time patchwork too pretty and useful an accomplishment
to have gone out of fashion.

"You shall have a small stand cover like the one you admired so greatly, given me by Aunt Cornelia.
It is very simple, the materials required being a square of yard-wide unbleached muslin. In
the centre of this baste a large, blue-flowered handkerchief with cream-colored ground, to
match the muslin. Turn up a deep hem all around outside edge; cut out quarter circles of the
handkerchief at each of four corners; baste neatly upon the muslin, leaving a space of muslin
the same width as the hem around each quarter circle; briarstitch all turned-in edges with
dark-blue embroidery silk, being washable, these do nicely as covers for small tables or stands
on the veranda in Summertime."

"Aunt Sarah," ecstatically exclaimed Mary, "you are a wizard to plan so many useful things
from a trunk of apparently useless rags. What a treasure Uncle has in you. I was fretting about
having so little to make my home attractive, but I feel quite elated at the thought of having
a carpet and rugs already planned, besides the numerous other things evolved from your fertile
brain."

Aunt Sarah loved a joke. She held up an old broadcloth cape. "Here is a fine patch for Ralph
Jackson's breeches, should he ever become sedentary and need one."

Mary reddened and looked almost offended and was at a loss for a reply.

Greatly amused, Aunt Sarah quoted ex-President Roosevelt: "'Tis time for the man with the patch
to come forward and the man with the dollar to step back,'" and added, "Never mind, Mary, your
Ralph is such an industrious, hustling young man that he will never need a patch to step forward,
I prophesy that with such a helpmeet and 'Haus Frau' as you, Mary, he'll always be most prosperous
and happy. Kiss me, dear."

Mary did so, and her radiant smile at such praise from her honored relative was beautiful to
behold.

CHAPTER IX.

POETRY AND PIE.

"Aunt Sarah," questioned Mary one day, "do you mind if I copy some of your recipes?"

"Certainly not, my dear," replied her Aunt.

"And I'd like to copy some of the poems, also, I never saw any one else have so much poetry
in a book of cooking recipes."

"Perhaps not," replied her Aunt, "but you know, Mary, I believe in combining pleasure with
my work, and our lives are made up of poetry and prose, and some lives are so very prosy. Many
times when too tired to look up a favorite volume of poems, it has rested me to turn the pages
of my recipe book and find some helpful thought, and a good housewife will always keep her
book of recipes where it may be readily found for reference. I think, Mary, the poem 'Pennsylvania,'
by Lydia M.D. O'Neil, a fine one, and I never tire of reading it over and over again. I have
always felt grateful to my old schoolmaster. Professor T----, for teaching me, when a school
girl, to love the writing of Longfellow, Whittier, Bryant, Tennyson and other well-known poets.
I still, in memory, hear him repeat 'Thanatopsis,' by Bryant and 'The Builders,' by Longfellow.
The rhymes of the 'Fireside Poet' are easily understood, and never fail to touch the heart
of common folk. I know it appears odd to see so many of my favorite poems sandwiched in between
old, valued cooking recipes, but, Mary, the happiness of the home life depends so largely on
the food we consume. On the preparation and selection of the food we eat depends our health,
and on our health is largely dependent our happiness and prosperity. Who is it has said, 'The
discovery of a new dish makes more for the happiness of man than the discovery of a star'?
So, dearie, you see there is not such a great difference between the one who writes a poem
and the one who makes a pie. I think cooking should be considered one of the fine arts--and
the woman who prepares a dainty, appetizing dish of food, which appeals to the sense of taste,
should be considered as worthy of praise as the artist who paints a fine picture to gratify
our sense of sight. I try to mix all the poetry possible in prosaic every-day life. We country
farmers' wives, not having the opportunities of our more fortunate city sisters, such as witnessing
plays from Shakespeare, listening to symphony concerts, etc., turn to 'The Friendship of Books,'
of which Washington Irving writes: 'Cheer us with the true friendship, which never deceived
hope nor deserted sorrow.'"

"Yes," said Mary, "but remember, Aunt Sarah, Chautauqua will be held next Summer in a near-by
town, and, as Uncle John is one of the guarantors, you will wish to attend regularly and will,
I know, enjoy hearing the excellent lectures, music and concerts."

"Yea," replied her Aunt, "Chautauqua meetings will commence the latter part of June, and I
will expect you and Ralph to visit us then. I think Chautauqua a godsend to country women,
especially farmers' wives; it takes them away from their monotonous daily toil and gives them
new thoughts and ideas."

"I can readily understand, Aunt Sarah, why the poem, 'Life's Common Things,' appeals to you;
it is because you see beauty in everything. Aunt Sarah, where did you get this very old poem,
'The Deserted City'?"

"Why, that was given me by John's Uncle, who thought the poem fine."

    "Sad is the sight, the city once so fair!
    An hundred palaces lie buried there;
      Her lofty towers are fallen, and creepers grow
      O'er marbled dome and shattered portico.

    "Once in the gardens, lovely girls at play,
    Culled the bright flowers, and gently touched the spray;
      But now wild creatures in their savage joy
      Tread down the flowers and the plants destroy.

    "By night no torches in the windows gleam;
    By day no women in their beauty beam;
      The smoke has ceased--the spider there has spread
      His snares in safety--and all else is dead."

"Indeed, it is a 'gem,'" said Mary, after slowly reading aloud parts of several stanzas.

"Yes," replied her Aunt, "Professor Schmidt tells me the poem was written by Kalidasa (the
Shakespeare of Hindu literature), and was written 1800 years before Goldsmith gave us his immortal
work, 'The Deserted Village.'"

"I like the poem, 'Abou Ben Adhem and the Angel,'" said Mary, "and I think this true by Henry
Ward Beecher:"

    "'Do not be troubled because you have not great virtues,
    God made a million spears of grass where He made one tree;
    The earth is fringed and carpeted not with forests but with grasses,
    Only have enough of little virtues and common fidelities,
    And you need not mourn because you are neither a hero nor a saint.'

"This is a favorite little poem of mine, Aunt Sarah. I'll just write it on this blank page
in your book."

    There's a little splash of sunshine and a little spot of shade,
    always somewhere near,
    The wise bask in the sunshine, but the foolish choose the shade.
    The wise are gay and happy, on the foolish, sorrow's laid,
    And the fault's their own, I fear.

    For the little splash of sunshine and the little spot of shade
    Are here for joint consumption, for comparison are made;
    We're all meant to be happy, not too foolish or too staid.
    And the right dose to be taken is some sunshine mixed with shade.

"Aunt Sarah, I see there is still space on this page to write another poem, a favorite of mine.
It is called, 'Be Strong,' by Maltbie Davenport."

        Be Strong!
        We are not here to play, to dream, to drift;
        We have hard word to do, and loads to lift,
        Shun not the struggle; face it, 'tis God's gift.

        Be Strong!
        Say not the days are evil--who's to blame?
        And fold the hands and acquiesce--Oh, shame!
        Stand up, speak out, and bravely, in God's name.

        Be Strong!
        It matters not how deep intrenched the wrong,
        How hard the battle goes, the day how long;
        Faint not, fight on! Tomorrow comes the song,

LIFE'S COMMON THINGS.

        How lovely are life's common things.
          When health flows in the veins;
        The golden sunshine of the days
          When Phoebus holds the reins;

        The floating clouds against the blue;
          The fragrance of the air;
        The nodding flowers by the way;
          The green grass everywhere;

        The feathery beauty of the elm,
          With graceful-swaying boughs.
        Where nesting songbirds find a home
          And the night wind sighs and soughs;

        The hazy blue of distant hill,
          With wooded slope and crest;
        The crimson sky when low at night
          The sun sinks in the West;

        The thrilling grandeur of the storm,
          The lightning's vivid flash,
        The mighty rush of wind and rain,
          The thunder's awful crash.

        And then the calm that follows storm,
          And rainbow in the sky;
        The rain-washed freshness of the earth--
          A singing bird near by.

        And oh, the beauty of the night!
          Its hush, its thrill, its charm;
        The twinkling brilliance of its stars;
          Its tranquil peace and calm.

        Oh, loving fatherhood of God
          To give us every day
        The lovely common things of life
          To brighten all the way!

CHAPTER X.

SIBYLLA LINSABIGLER.

A very original character was Sibylla Linsabigler, who had been a member of the Landis household
several years. She was Aunt Sarah's only maid servant, but she disliked being referred to as
a servant, and when she overheard "Fritz" Schmidt, as he passed the Landis farm on his way
to the creek for a days fishing, call to Mary: "Miss Midleton, will you please send the butter
over with the servant today, as I shall not return home in time for dinner" Sibylla said, "I
ain't no servant. I'm hired girl What does that make out if I do work here? Pop got mad with
me 'cause I wouldn't work at home no more for him and Mom without they paid me. They got three
more girls to home yet that can do the work. My Pop owns a big farm and sent our 'Chon' to
the college, and it's mean 'fer' him not to give us girls money for dress, so I work out, 'Taint
right the way us people what has to work are treated these days," said Sibylla to herself,
as she applied the broom vigorously to the gay-flowered carpet in the Landis parlor. "Because
us folks got to work ain't no reason why them tony people over to the Perfessor's should call
me a 'servant.' I guess I know I milk the cows, wash dishes, scrub floors, and do the washin'
and ir'nin' every week, but I'm no 'servant,' I'm just as good any day as that good-fer-nothin'
Perfesser's son," continued Sibylla, growing red in the face with indignation. "Didn't I hear
that worthless scamp, Fritz Schmidt, a-referrin' to me and a-sayin' to Miss Midleton fer the
'servant' to bring over the butter? Betch yer life this here 'servant' ain't a-goin' to allow
eddicated people to make a fool of her. First chance I get I'll give that Perfesser a piece
of my mind."

Sibylla's opportunity came rather unexpectedly. The gentle, mild-mannered Professor was on
good terms with his sturdy, energetic neighbor, John Landis, and frequently visited him for
a neighborly chat. On this particular day he called as usual and found Sibvlla in the mood
described.

"Good afternoon, Sibylla," said the Professor, good-naturedly. "How are you today?"

"I'd be a whole lot better if some people weren't so smart," replied Sibylla, venting her feelings
on the broom. "Should think a Perfesser would feel himself too big to talk to a 'servant'."

"On the contrary, my dear girl, I feel honored. I presume you are not feeling as well as usual.
What makes you think it is condescension for me to address you?" asked the genial old man, kindly.

"Well, since you ask me, I don't mind a-tellin' you. Yesterday your son insulted me, I won't
take no insult from nobody, I am just as good as what you are, even if I hain't got much book
larnin'."

With this deliverance, Sibylla felt she had done full justice to the occasion and would have
closed the interview abruptly had not the Professor, with a restraining hand, detained her.

"We must get to the bottom of this grievance, Sibylla. I am sure there is some mistake somewhere.
What did my son say?"

"Well, if you want to know," replied the irate domestic, 'I'll tell you. He called me a 'servant.'
I know I'm only a working girl, but your son nor nobody else ain't got no right to abuse me
by callin' me a 'servant'."

"Ah! I see. You object to the term 'servant' being applied to you," said the Professor, comprehendingly.
"The word 'servant' is distasteful to you. You feel it is a disgrace to be called a servant.
I see! I see!" In a fatherly way, the old man resumed: "In a certain sense we are all servants.
The history of human achievements is a record of service. The men and women who have helped
the world most were all servants--servants to humanity. The happiest man is he who serves.
God calls some men to sow and some to reap; some to work in wood and stone; to sing and speak.
Work is honorable in all, regardless of the capacity in which we serve. There is no great difference,
after all, between the ordinary laborer and the railroad president; both are servants, and
the standard of measurement to be applied to each man is the same. It is not so much a question
of station in life as it is the question of efficiency. Best of all, work is education. There
is culture that comes without college and university. He who graduates from the college of
hard work is as honorable as he who takes a degree at Yale or Harvard; for wisdom can be found
in shop and foundry, field and factory, in the kitchen amid pots and kettles, as well as in
office and school. The truly educated man is the man who has learned the duty and responsibility
of doing something useful, something helpful, something to make this old world of ours better
and a happier place in which to live. The word 'servant,' Sibylla, is a beautiful one, rightly
understood. The greatest man who ever lived was a servant. All His earthly ministry was filled
with worthy deeds. When man pleaded with Him to rest, He answered: 'My Father worketh hitherto,
and I work.' When one of Christ's followers desired to express the true nature of his work
and office, he called himself a servant. He used a word, 'doulos,' which means, in the Greek
language, a slave or a bond-servant. By the word 'doulos' he meant to say that his mission
in life was to work, to do good, to serve. This man was a great preacher, but it is possible
for any one to become a 'doulos' in so far as he is willing to serve God and his fellowman.
You see, Sibylla, the spirit of Christian work and brotherly love is the spirit of 'doulos.'
The word has been transformed by service and unselfish devotion to duty. Great men who have
blessed the world, and good and noble women who have helped to uplift humanity, have done it
through service. It is just as honorable to bake well, and cook well, and to do the humblest
daily tasks efficiently, as it is to play well on the piano and talk fluently about the latest
books."

At the conclusion of the Professor's little talk on the dignity of labor, a new light shone
in Sibylla's eyes and a new thought gripped her soul. The spirit of "doulos" had displaced
her antipathy toward the word servant.

"I'll take that butter over to the Professer's home right away," she said, to herself.

Before leaving Sibylla, the Professor quoted from the "Toiling of Felix," by Henry Vandyke:

     "Hewing wood and drawing water, splitting stones and cleaving
     sod, All the dusty ranks of labour, in the regiment of God, March
     together toward His triumph, do the task His hands prepare;
     Honest toil is holy service, faithful work is praise and prayer."

     They who work without complaining, do the holy will of God.

     Heaven is blest with perfect rest, but the blessing of earth is
     toil.

Sibylla Linsabigler was a healthy, large-boned, solidly-built, typical "Pennsylvania German"
girl. Her clear, pinkish complexion looked as if freshly scrubbed with soap and water. A few
large, brown freckles adorned the bridge of her rather broad, flat nose. She possessed red
hair and laughing, red-brown eyes, a large mouth, which disclosed beautiful even, white teeth
when she smiled, extraordinary large feet and hands, strong, willing and usually good-natured,
although possessed of a quick temper, as her red hair indicated. Kind-hearted to a fault, she
was of great assistance to Aunt Sarah, although she preferred any other work to that of cooking
or baking. She kept the kitchen as well as other parts of the house, to quote Aunt Sarah, "neat
as a pin," and did not object to any work, however hard or laborious, as long as she was not
expected to do the thinking and planning. She was greatly attached to both Aunt Sarah and Mary,
but stood rather in awe of John Landis, who had never spoken a cross word to her in the three
years she had lived at the farm.

Sarah Landis, knowing Sibylla to be an honest, industrious girl, appreciated her good qualities,
thought almost as much of Sibylla as if she had been her daughter, and treated her in like
manner, and for this reason, if for no other, she received willing service from the girl.

Sibylla, a swift worker at all times, never finished work so quickly as on Wednesday and Saturday
evenings, when she "kept company" with Jake Crouthamel. "Chake," as Sibylla called him, was
a sturdy, red-faced young farmer, all legs and arms. He appeared to be put together loosely
at the joints, like a jumping-jack, and never appeared at ease in his ill-fitting "store clothes."
He usually wore gray corduroy trousers and big cowhide boots, a pink and white striped shirt
and red necktie.

Sibylla did not notice his imperfections, and thought him handsome as a Greek god.

Jake, an honest, industrious young fellow, worked on a near-by farm, owned his own carriage,
and had the privilege of using one of the farm horses when he wished, so he and Sibylla frequently
took "choy rides," as Sibylla called them.

Jake Crouthamel was usually called "Boller-Yockel," this name having been accorded him on account
of his having delivered to a purchaser a load of hay largely composed of rag-weed. The man
called him an old "Boller-Yockel," and the name had clung to Jake for years.

CHAPTER XI.

"NEW COLONIAL" RAG RUGS.

Several days had elapsed since that on which Mary's Aunt had planned to use the contents of
her trunk to such good advantage, when Mary, coming into the room where her Aunt was busily
engaged sewing, exclaimed: "Don't forget, Auntie, you promised to teach me to crochet rag rugs!"

"Indeed, I've not forgotten, and will make my promise good at once," said Aunt Sarah. "We shall
need quantities of carpet rags cut about one-half inch in width, the same as those used for
making rag carpet. Of course, you are aware, Mary, that heavier materials should be cut in
narrower strips than those of thinner materials. You will also require a long, wooden crochet
needle, about as thick as an ordinary wooden lead pencil, having a hook at one end, similar
to a common bone crochet needle, only larger. For a circular rug, crochet about twelve stitches
(single crochet) over one end of a piece of candle wick or cable cord; or, lacking either of
these, use a carpet rag of firm material; then draw the crocheted strip into as small a circle
as possible, fasten and crochet round and round continuously until finished. The centre of
a circular or oblong rug may be a plain color, with border of colored light and dark rags,
sewed together promiscuously, called 'Hit and Miss.'

"Or you might have a design similar to a 'Pin-wheel' in centre of the circular rug, with alternate
stripes, composed of dark and light-colored rags."

"I'd like one made in that manner from different shades that harmonize, browns and tans, for
instance," said Mary.

"You may easily have a rug of that description," continued her Aunt. "With a package of brown
dye, we can quickly transform some light, woolen carpet rags I possess into pretty shades of
browns and tans."

"For a circular rug, with design in centre resembling a pin-wheel, commence crocheting the
rug same as preceding one. Crochet three rows of one color, then mark the rug off into four
parts, placing a pin to mark each section or quarter of the rug. At each of four points crochet
one stitch of a contrasting shade. Crochet once around the circle, using a shade similar to
that of the centre of rug for design, filling in between with the other shade. For the following
row, crochet two stitches beneath the one stitch (not directly underneath the stitch, but one
stitch beyond), filling in between with the other color. The third row, add three stitches
beneath the two stitches in same manner as preceding row, and continue, until design in centre
is as large as desired, then crochet 'Hit or Miss' or stripes. Do not cut off the carpet rags
at each of the four points after crocheting stitches, but allow each one to remain and crochet
over them, then pick up on needle and crochet every time you require stitches of contrasting
shade. Then crochet several rows around the rug with different shades until rug is the required
size. The under side should be finished off as neatly as the right, or upper side. Mary, when
not making a design, sew the rags together as if for weaving carpet. When crocheting circular
rugs, occasionally stretch the outside row to prevent the rug from curling up at edges when
finished, as it would be apt to do if too tightly crocheted. If necessary, occasionally add
an extra stitch. Avoid also crocheting it too loosely, as it would then appear like a ruffle.
The advantage of crocheting over a heavy cord is that the work may be easily drawn up more
tightly if too lose."

CHAPTER XII.

MARY IMITATES NAVAJO BLANKETS.

On her return from an afternoon spent at Professor Schmidt's, Mary remarked to Aunt Sarah,
"For the first time in my life I have an original idea!"

"Do tell me child, what it is!"

"The 'New Colonial' rag rugs we have lately finished are fine, but I'd just love to have a
Navajo blanket like those owned by Professor Schmidt; and I intend to make a rag rug in imitation
of his Navajo blanket."

"Yes," answered her Aunt, "I have always greatly admired them myself, especially the large
gray one which covers the Professor's own chair in the library. The Professor brought them
with him when he returned from 'Cutler's Ranch' at Rociada, near Las Vegas, New Mexico, where
he visited his nephew, poor Raymond, or rather, I should say, fortunate Raymond, an only child
of the Professor's sister. A quiet, studious boy, he graduated at the head of his class at
an early age, but he inherited the weak lungs of his father, who died of consumption. Raymond
was a lovable boy, with a fund of dry humor and wit--the idol of his mother, who, taking the
advice of a specialist, accompanied her boy, as a last resort, to New Mexico, where, partly
owing to his determination to get well, proper food and daily rides on the mesa, on the back
of his little pinto pony, he regained perfect health, and today is well, happily married and
living in Pasadena, California, so I have been told by Frau Schmidt, who dearly loves the boy."

"But Mary, forgive an old woman for rambling away from the subject in which you are interested--Navajo
blankets. Ever since we planned to make a rug with a swastika in the centre, I nave been trying
to evolve from my brain (and your Uncle John says my bump of inventiveness is abnormally large)
a Navajo rag rug for the floor of the room you intend to furnish as Ralph's den, in the home
you are planning. Well, my dear, a wooden crochet hook in your deft fingers will be the magic
wand which will perform a miracle and transform into Navajo blankets such very commonplace
articles as your discarded gray eiderdown kimona, and a pair of your Uncle's old gray trousers,
which have already been washed and ripped by Sibylla, to be used for making carpet rags. These,
combined with the gray skirt I heard you say had outlived its day of usefulness, will furnish
the background of the rug. The six triangles in the centre of the rug, also lighter stripes
at each end of the rug, we will make of that old linen chair-cover and your faded linen skirt,
which you said I might use for carpet rags; and, should more material be needed, I have some
old, gray woolen underwear in my patch bag, a gray-white, similar to the real Navajo. The rows
of black with which we shall outline the triangles may be made from those old, black, silk-lisle
hose you gave me, by cutting them round and round in one continuous strip. Heavy cloth should
be cut in very narrow strips. Sibylla will do that nicely; her hands are more used to handling
large, heavy shears than are yours. The linen-lawn skirt you may cut in strips about three-fourths
of an inch in width, as that material is quite thin. I would sew rags of one color together
like carpet rags, not lapping the ends more than necessary to hold them together. The rug will
be reversible, both sides being exactly alike when finished. I should make the rug about fifty-three
stitches across. This will require about six and one-fourth yards of carpet rags, when sewed
together, to crochet once across. I think it would be wise to cut all rags of different weight
materials before commencing to crochet the rug, so they may be well mixed through. I will assist
you with the work at odd moments, and in a short time the rug will be finished."

The rug, when finished, was truly a work of art, and represented many hours of labor and thought.
But Mary considered it very fascinating work, and was delighted with the result of her labor--a
rug the exact imitation of one of the Professor's genuine Indian Navajo blankets, the work
of her own hands, and without the expenditure of a penny.

Mary remarked: "I do not think all the triangles in my rug are the exact size of the paper
pattern you made me, Aunt Sarah. The two in the centre appear larger than the others."

"Well," remarked her Aunt, "if you examine closely the blankets owned by Professor Schmidt,
you will find the on the ones woven by Navajo Indians are not of an equal size."

'Tis said Navajo blankets and Serapes will become scarce and higher in price in the future,
on account of the numerous young Indians who have been educated and who prefer other occupations
to that of weaving blankets, as did their forefathers; and the present disturbance in Mexico
will certainly interfere with the continuance of this industry for a time.

"Mary, while you have been planning your Navajo rug, I have been thinking how we may make a
very attractive as well as useful rug. You remember, we could not decide what use to make of
your old, tan cravenette stormcoat? I have been thinking we might use this, when cut into carpet
rags, for the principal part of the rug, and that old, garnet merino blouse waist might be
cut and used for the four corners of a rug, and we might have gay stripes in the centre of
the rug to form a sort of design, and also put gay stripes at each end of the rug.

"And you might crochet a rug, plain 'Hit or Miss,' of rather bright-colored rags."

"Yes," said Mary, "I think I will crochet a swastika in the centre of a rug, as you suggest,
of bright orange, outlined with black, and a stripe of orange edged with black at each end
of the rug to match the centre. Don't you think that would be pretty, Aunt Sarah?"

"Yes indeed, but Mary, don't you think the swastika would show more distinctly on a rug with
a plain background?"

"Perhaps it would," replied Mary, "but I think I'll crochet one of very gayly-colored rags,
with a swastika in the centre."

"Aunt Sarah," said Mary, "do tell me how that pretty little rug composed of silk scraps is made."

"Oh, that silk rug; 'twas given me by Aunt Cornelia, who finished it while here on a visit
from New York. I never saw another like it, and it has been greatly admired. Although possessed
of an ordinary amount of patience, I don't think I'll ever make one for myself. I don't admire
knitted rugs of any description, neither do I care for braided rugs. I think the crocheted
ones prettier. But, Mary, this small silk rug is easily made should you care to have one. I
will commence knitting one for you at once. You will then find a use for the box of bright-colored
silks you possess, many of which are quite too small to be used in any other manner. Professor
Schmidt calls this a 'Prayer Rug.' He said: 'This rug, fashioned of various bright-hued silks
of orange, purple and crimson, a bright maze of rich colors, without any recognizable figure
or design, reminds me of the description of the 'Prayer Carpet' or rugs of the Mohammedans.
They are composed of rich-hued silks of purple, ruby and amber. 'Tis said their delicacy of
shade is marvelous and was suggested by the meadows of variegated flowers.' But this is a digression;
you wished directions for making the rug.

"Use tiny scraps of various bright-hued silks, velvets and satins, cut about 3-1/2 inches long
and about one-half inch in width. Ends should always be cut slanting or bias; never straight.
All you will require besides the silk scraps, will be a ball of common cord or twine, or save
all cord which comes tied around packages, as I do, and use that and two ordinary steel knitting
needles. When making her rug, Aunt Cornelia knitted several strips a couple of inches in width
and the length she wished the finished rug to be. The strips when finished she sewed together
with strong linen thread on the wrong side of the rug. She commenced the rug by knitting two
rows of the twine or cord. (When I was a girl we called this common knitting 'garter stitch.')
Then, when commencing to knit third row, slip off first stitch onto your other needle; knit
one stitch, then lay one of the tiny scraps of silk across or between the two needles; knit
one stitch with the cord. This holds the silk in position. Then fold or turn one end of silk
back on the other piece of silk and knit one stitch of cord to hold them in place, always keeping
silk on one side, on the top of rug, as this rug is not reversible. Continue in this manner
until one row is finished. Then knit once across plain with cord, and for next row lay silk
scraps in and knit as before. Always knit one row of the cord across plain after knitting in
scraps of silk, as doing this holds them firmly in position. Of course, Mary, you will use
judgment and taste in combining light and dark, bright and dull colors. Also, do not use several
scraps of velvet together. Use velvet, silk and satin alternately. Should any scraps of silk
be longer than others after knitting, trim off evenly so all will be of uniform size. When
her rug was finished, Aunt Cornelia spread it, wrong side uppermost, on an unused table, covered
it with a thick boiled paste, composed of flour and water, allowed it to dry thoroughly, then
lined the rug with a heavy piece of denim. This was done to prevent the rug from curling up
at edges, and caused it to lie flat on floor; but I think I should prefer just a firm lining
or foundation of heavy burlap or denim."

"Thank you, Aunt Sarah, for your explicit directions. I cannot fail to know just how to knit
a silk rug, should I ever care to do so. I think the work would be simply fascinating."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GIRLS' CAMPFIRE, ORGANIZED BY MARY.

One day in early June, when all nature seemed aglow with happiness, we find Mary earnestly
discussing with Elizabeth Schmidt the prosaic, humdrum life of many of the country girls, daughters
of well-to-do farmers in the vicinity.

"I wish," said Mary, wrinkling her forehead thoughtfully, "I could think of some new interest
to introduce into their lives; some way of broadening their outlook; anything to bring more
happiness into their commonplace daily toil; something good and helpful for them to think about."

All at once Mary, who was not usually demonstrative, clapped her hands, laughed gleefully and
said: "I have it, Elizabeth. The very thing! Suppose we start a 'girls' campfire,' right here
in the country? I don't think we shall have any trouble to organize."

"And you, because you understand all about it, will be the Guardian," said Elizabeth.

At first Mary demurred, but, overcome by Elizabeth's pleading, finally gave a reluctant consent.
They then made out a list of the girls they thought might be willing to join, Mary promising
to write at once for a handbook. They separated, Elizabeth to call to see the girls, and Mary
to interview their parents. Their efforts were rewarded with surprisingly gratifying results,
for many of the girls had read about the "Campfire Girls" and were anxious to become members.

       *       *       *       *       *

One afternoon, several weeks later, had you gone into the old apple orchard, at the farm, you
would have seen thirteen eager young girls, ranging in age from fourteen to sixteen, listening
intently to Mary, who was telling them about the "Campfire Girls." What she told them was something
like this:

"Now girls, we are going to have a good time. Some of our good times will be play and some
work. When you join, you will become a 'Wood Gatherer,' and after three months' successful
work, if you have met certain qualifications, you will be promoted to the rank of 'Fire Maker.'
Later on, when you come to realize what it means to be a 'Torch Bearer,' you will be put in
that rank. The first law which you learn to follow is one which you must apply to your daily
life. It is: Seek beauty, give service, pursue knowledge, be trustworthy, hold on to health,
glorify work, be happy. 'The Camp Fire' has meant so much to girls I have known, for their
betterment, and has been so helpful in many ways, you surely will never regret becoming a member
of the organization, or be anything but happy if you keep their laws. There will be no dues,
except what is collected for good times, and no expense except the cost of your ceremonial
costume, epaulettes and honor beads. The latter are quite inexpensive. The honors are divided
into several classes, and for each honor a bead is given as a symbol of your work. A special
colored bead is given for each class. We shall meet about once every week. The monthly meeting
is called the 'Council Fire.' I will tell you later about the 'Wohelo' ceremony. By the way,
girls, 'Wohelo' stands for work, health and love. You see, the word is composed of the first
two letters of each word."

The girls appeared to be greatly interested, and Mary felt very much encouraged. Some of the
girls left to talk it over with the homefolks, while others, wishing to learn more of the organisation,
plied Mary with numerous questions. Finally, in desperation, she said: "Girls, I will read
you the following from the 'Camp Fire Girls' Handbook, which I received this morning:"

'The purpose of this organization is to show that the common things of daily life are the chief
means of beauty, romance and adventure; to aid in the forming of habits making for health and
vigor, the out-of-door habit and the out-of-door spirit; to devise ways of measuring and creating
standards to woman's work, and to give girls the opportunity to learn how to "keep step," to
learn team work, through doing it; to help girls and women serve the community, the larger
home, in the same way they have always served the individual home; to give status and social
recognition to the knowledge of the mother, and thus restore the intimate relationship of mothers
and daughters to each other.'

"Well, girls," said Mary, as she laid aside the book, "I think you all understand what a benefit
this will be to you, and I will do all in my power to help you girls, while I am at the farm
this summer. It is too late to tell you any more today. The information I have given you will
suffice for the present. Three cheers for our Camp Fire! which will be under way in two months,
I trust."

       *       *       *       *       *

The members of "Shawnee" Camp Fire held their first Council Fire, or Ceremonial Meeting, the
second week in July. The girls, all deeply interested, worked hard to secure honors which were
awarded for engaging in domestic duties well known to the home, for studying and observing
the rules of hygiene and sanitation, and for learning and achievements in various ways. They
held weekly meetings and studied diligently to win the rank of Fire Maker.

A girl, when she joins, becomes a Wood Gatherer; she then receives a silver ring.

The weeks pass swiftly by, and it is time for another Camp Fire. The girls selected as their
meeting place for this occasion farmer Druckenmuller's peach orchard, to which they walked,
a distance of about three miles from the home of Elizabeth Schmidt. They left about two o'clock
in the afternoon, intending to return home before nightfall, a good time being anticipated,
as they took with them lunch and materials for a corn-roast.

The peach orchard in question, covering many acres, was situated at the foot of a low hill.
Between the two flowed an enchanting, fairy-like stream, the cultivated peach orchard on one
side, and on the opposite side the forest-like hill, covered with an abundance of wild flowers.

When the afternoon set for the Council Fire arrived, had you happened to meet the fifteen merry,
chattering girls, accompanied by two older girls, Mary and Lucy Robbins (the country school
teacher), as chaperones, wending their way to the orchard, you, without a doubt, would have
smiled and a question might naturally have arisen regarding their sanity. They certainly possessed
intelligent faces, but why those queer-shaped Indian dresses? And such an awkward length for
a young girl's dress! And why was their hair all worn hanging in one braid over each shoulder,
with a band over the forehead? Why so many strings of gaudy beads around their necks? These
questions may all be answered in one single sentence: The girls are dressed in Ceremonial Costume.

A great many delays along the way were caused by girls asking the names of the different wild
flowers and weeds they noticed in passing. One of the girls stopped to examine a prickly-looking
plant about two feet high, with little, blue flowers growing along the stem, and asked if any
one knew the name of it. They were about to look it up in a small "Flower Guide" owned by one
of the girls, when some one said: "Why, that is a weed called 'Vipers Bougloss,'" They also
found cardinal flower, thorn apple, monkey flower and jewel-weed in abundance, wild sunflower,
ginseng, early golden rod, "Joe-pie-weed," marshallow, black cohosh and purple loose-trifle.
The girls also noticed various birds.

On a tall tree one of the girls espied a rose-breasted Grosbeak, rare in this part of Bucks
County. They all stopped and watched for a short time a white-bellied Nut-hatch. The girls
were startled as a Scarlet Tanger flew past to join his mate, and they at last reached their
rendezvous, the orchard.

By half-past three they were all seated in a circle waiting for the ceremonies to begin. Mary
Midleton, their Guardian, stepped to the front, saying: "Sunflower, light the fire." Sunflower,
through several months of daily attainment, had become a Fire-maker and was very proud of the
Fire-maker's bracelet she was entitled to wear. Sunflower was given that name because she always
looked on the bright side of everything; she looked like a sunflower, too, with her tanned
face and light, curly hair.

All the girls had symbolical names given them. "Lark" was so named because of her sweet voice
and because she loved to sing; "Sweet Tooth," on account of her love for candy; "Quick Silver,"
because she was quick, bright and witty; "Great Buffalo," a girl who was very strong; Elizabeth
Schmidt, "Laughing Water," so named because she laughed and giggled at everybody and everything;
"Babbling Brook," because it seemed an utter impossibility for her to stop talking; "Burr,"
because she sticks to ideas and friends; "Faith," quiet and reserved; "Comet," comes suddenly
and brings a lot of light; "Black Hawk," always eager at first, but inclined to let her eagerness
wear off: "Pocahontas," because she never can hurry; "Ginger Foot," a fiery temper, "Gypsy,"
so named on account of her black hair; "Bright Eyes," for her bright, blue eyes; "Rainbow,"
for her many ways, and because she is pretty.

As "Sunflower" took the matches and knelt by the pile of wood and lighted the fire, she recited
the Ode to the Fire:

"Oh, Fire! Long years ago, when our fathers fought with great beasts, you were their protector.
From the cruel cold of winter you saved. When they needed food, you changed the flesh of beasts
into savory meat for them. Through all ages your mysterious flame has been a symbol of the
Great Spirit to them. Tonight we light this fire in remembrance of the Great Spirit Who gave
you to us."

Then the girls sang the chant or chanted:

    Wohelo for aye,
    Wohelo for aye,
    Wohelo for aye,
    Wohelo for work,
    Wohelo for health,
    Wohelo,
    Wohelo for love.

None had yet attained the highest rank, that of Torch Bearer, won by still greater achievement,
the Camp having been organized so recently. Their motto was "The light which has been given
to me, I desire to pass undimmed to others."

"Gypsy," the secretary, then read the "Count" for the last meeting and called the roll, and
the girls handed in the list of honors they had won in the last month. Some amused themselves
playing games, while others gathered more wood.

At five o'clock the corn and white and sweet potatoes were in the fire roasting. A jolly circle
of girls around the fire were busily engaged toasting "Weiners" for the feast, which was finally
pronounced ready to be partaken of. The hungry girls "fell to" and everything eatable disappeared
as if by magic; and last, but not least, was the toasting of marshmallows, speared on the points
of long, two-pronged sticks (broken from near-by trees), which were held over the fire until
the marshmallows turned a delicate color. When everything had been eaten, with the exception
of several cardboard boxes, corn cobs and husks, the girls quickly cleared up. Then, seated
around the fire, told what they knew of Indian legends and folklore.

Noticing the sun slowly sinking in the West, they quickly gathered together their belongings
and started homeward singing, "My Country, 'tis of Thee, Sweet Land of Liberty."

Thus broke up the second Council Fire, and in the heart of each girl was the thought of how
much the Campfire was helping them to love God and His works.

CHAPTER XIV.

MARY MAKES "VIOLET" AND "ROSE LEAF" BEADS.

"Aunt Sarah," exclaimed Mary one day, "you promised to tell me exactly how you made those 'Rose
Beads' you have."

"Yes, my dear, and you must make the beads before the June roses are gone. The process is very
simple. If you would have them very sweet, get the petals of the most fragrant roses. I used
petals of the old-fashioned, pink 'hundred leaf' and 'blush roses.' Gather a quantity, for
you will need them all. Grind them to a pulp in the food chopper, repeat several times and
place the pulp and juice into an iron kettle or pan. This turns the pulp black, which nothing
but an iron kettle will do; cook, and when the consistency of dough it is ready to mold into
beads. Take a bit of the dough, again as large as the size you wish your beads to be when finished,
as they shrink in size when dried, and make them of uniform size, or larger ones for the centre
of the necklace, as you prefer. Roll in the palms of your hands, until perfectly round, stick
a pin through each bead, then stick the pins into a bake board. Be careful the bead does not
touch the board, as that would spoil its shape. Allow the beads to remain until perfectly dry.
If they are to have a dull finish, leave as they are. If you wish to polish them, take a tiny
piece of vaseline on the palm of the hand and rub them between the palms until the vaseline
is absorbed. Then string them on a linen thread. Keep in a closed box to preserve their fragrance.
Those I showed you, Mary, I made many years ago, and the scent of the roses clings 'round them
still.'"

"Did you know, Mary, that beads may be made from the petals of the common wild blue violet
in exactly the same manner as they are made from rose leaves?"

"No, indeed, but I don't think the making of beads from the petals of roses and violets as
wonderful as the beads which you raise in the garden. Those shiny, pearl-like seeds or beads
of silvery-gray, called 'Job's Tears,' which grow on a stalk resembling growing corn; and to
think Professor Schmidt raised those which Elizabeth strung on linen thread, alternately with
beads, for a portiere in their sitting-room."

"Yes, my dear, the beads must be pierced before they become hard; later they should be polished.
Did you ever see them grow, Mary? The beads or 'tears' grow on a stalk about fifteen inches
high and from the bead or 'tear' grows a tiny, green spear resembling oats. They are odd and
with very little care may he grown in a small garden."

"They certainly are a curiosity," said Mary.

CHAPTER XV.

MARY AND ELIZABETH VISIT SADIE SINGMASTER.

Farmer Landis, happening to mention at the breakfast table his intention of driving over to
the "Ax Handle Factory" to obtain wood ashes to use as a fertilizer, his wife remarked, "Why
not take Mary with you, John? She can stop at Singmaster's with a basket of carpet rags for
Sadie. I've been wanting to send them over for some time." Turning to Mary, she said: "Poor
little, crippled Sadie! On account of a fall, which injured her spine, when a small child,
she has been unable to walk for years. She cuts and sews carpet rags, given her by friends
and neighbors, and from their sale to a carpet weaver in a near-by town, helps her widowed
mother eke out her small income."

"I'd love to go see her," said Mary. Elizabeth Schmidt also expressed her willingness to go,
when asked, saying: "I am positive mother will add her contribution to the carpet rags for
Sadie, I do pity her so very much."

"Yes," said Mary's Aunt, "she is poor and proud. She will not accept charity, so we persuade
her to take carpet rags, as we have more than we can possibly use."

On reaching the Singmaster cottage, the girls alighted with their well-filled baskets, Mary's
Uncle driving on to the "Ax Handle Factory," promising to call for the girls on his return.
The sad, brown eyes of Sadie, too large for her pinched, sallow face, shone with pleasure at
sight of the two young girls so near her own age, and she smiled her delight on examining the
numerous bright-colored patches brought by them. Thinking the pleasure she so plainly showed
might appear childish to the two girls, she explained: "I do get so dreadfully tired sewing
together so many dull homely rags. I shall enjoy making balls of these pretty, bright colors."

"Sadie," Mary inquired, "will you think me inquisitive should I ask what the carpet weaver
pays you for the rags when you have sewed and wound them into balls?"

"Certainly not," replied Sadie. "Four cents a pound is what he pays me. It takes two of these
balls to make a pound," and she held up a ball she had just finished winding.

"Is that all you get?" exclaimed Elizabeth.

"Have you ever made rag rugs?" inquired Mary.

"No, I have never even seen one. Are they anything like braided mats?"

"Yes, they are somewhat similar to them, but I crochet mine and think them prettier. I have
made several, with Aunt Sarah's assistance. I'll come over and teach you to make them one of
these days, should you care to learn, and I'm positive you will find ready sale for them. In
fact, I've several friends in the city who have admired the ones I have, and would like to
buy rugs for the Colonial rooms they are furnishing. Sadie, can you crochet?"

"Oh, yes. I can do the plain stitch very well."

"That is all that will be necessary. You will become very much interested in inventing new
designs, it is very fascinating work, and it will be more remunerative than sewing carpet rags.
Aunt Sarah will send you more carpet rags if you require them, and should you wish dull colors
of blue or pink, a small package of dye will transform white or light-colored rags into any
desired shade, to match the furnishings of different rooms. I think the crocheted rugs much
prettier than the braided ones, which are so popular in the 'Nutting' pictures, and the same
pretty shades may be used when rugs are crocheted."

When Farmer Landis came for the girls, he found them too busily engaged talking to hear his
knock at the door. During the drive home Mary could think and talk of nothing but Sadie Singmaster,
and the rugs she had promised to teach her to make at an early day. Elizabeth, scarcely less
enthusiastic, said: "I've a lot of old things I'll give her to cut up for carpet rags."

Reaching home, Mary could scarcely wait an opportunity to tell Aunt Sarah all her plans for
Sadie's betterment. When she finally did tell her Aunt, she smiled and said: "Mary, I'm not
surprised. You are always planning to do a kind act for some one. You remind me of the lines,
'If I Can Live,' by Helen Hunt Jackson." And she repeated the following for Mary:

IF I CAN LIVE.

    If I can live
    To make some pale face brighter and to give
    A second luster to some tear-dimmed eye,
      Or e'en impart
      One throb of comfort to an aching heart,
    Or cheer some wayworn soul in passing by;

    If I can lend
    A strong hand to the fallen, or defend
    The right against a single envious strain,
      My life, though bare,
      Perhaps, of much that seemeth dear and fair
    To us of earth, will not have been in vain.

    The purest joy,
    Most near to heaven, far from earth's alloy,
    Is bidding cloud give way to sun and shine;
      And 'twill be well
      If on that day of days the angels tell
    Of me, she did her best for one of Thine.

CHAPTER XVI.

OLD PARLOR MADE BEAUTIFUL (MODERNIZED).

When John Landis came into possession of "Clear Spring" Farm, where his mother had lived during
her lifetime, she having inherited it from her father, the rooms of the old farm house were
filled with quaint, old-fashioned furniture of every description. "Aunt Sarah," on coming to
the farm to live, had given a personal touch and cheery, homelike look to every room in the
house, with one exception, the large, gloomy, old-fashioned parlor, which was cold, cheerless
and damp. She confessed to Mary she always felt as if John's dead-and-gone ancestors' ghostly
presences inhabited the silent room. The windows were seldom opened to allow a ray of sunlight
to penetrate the dusk with which the room was always enveloped, except when the regular weekly
sweeping day arrived; when, after being carefully swept and dusted, it was promptly closed.
A room every one avoided, Aunt Sarah was very particular about always having fresh air and
sunlight in every other part of the house but his one room. The old fireplace had been boarded
up many years before Aunt Sarah's advent to the farm, so it could not be used. One day Mary
noticed, while dusting the room (after it had been given a thorough sweeping by Sibylla, Aunt
Sarah's one maid servant), that the small, many-paned windows facing the East, at one end of
the parlor, when opened, let in a flood of sunshine; and in the evening those at the opposite
end of the long room gave one a lovely view of the setting sun--a finer picture than any painted
by the hand of a master. Mary easily persuaded her Aunt to make some changes in the unlivable
room. She suggested that they consult her Uncle about repapering and painting the room and
surprise him with the result when finished.

Aunt Sarah, who never did things by halves, said: "Mary, I have long intended 'doing over'
this room, but thought it such a great undertaking. Now, with your assistance, I shall make
a sweep of these old, antiquated heirlooms of a past generation. This green carpet, with its
gorgeous bouquets of roses, we shall have combined with one of brown and tan in the attic.
Your Uncle shall take them with him when he drives to town and have them woven into pretty,
serviceable rugs for the floor."

"And, oh! Aunt Sarah," cried Mary, "do let's have an open fireplace. It makes a room so cheery
and 'comfy' when the weather gets colder, on long winter evenings, to have a fire in the grate.
I saw some lovely, old brass andirons and fender in the attic, and some brass candlesticks
there also, which will do nicely for the mantel shelf over the fireplace. I'll shine 'em up,
and instead of this hideously-ugly old wall paper with gay-colored scrawley figures, Aunt Sarah,
suppose we get an inexpensive, plain, tan felt paper for drop ceiling and separate it from
the paper on the side wall, which should be a warm, yellow-brown, with a narrow chestnut wood
molding. Then this dull, dark, gray-blue painted woodwork; could any one imagine anything more
hideously ugly? It gives me the 'blues' simply to look at it. Could we not have it painted
to imitate chestnut wood? And don't you think we might paint the floor around the edges of
the rug to imitate the woodwork? Just think of those centre panels of the door painted a contrasting
shade of pale pink. The painter who did this work certainly was an artist. A friend of mine
in the city, wishing to use rugs instead of carpets on her floors, and not caring to go to
the expense of laying hardwood floors, gave the old floors a couple of coats of light lemon,
or straw-colored paint, then stained and grained them a perfect imitation of chestnut, at small
expense. The floors were greatly admired when finished, and having been allowed to dry thoroughly
after being varnished, proved quite durable. I will write to my friend at once and ask her
exactly how her floors were treated."

"Now, Mary, about this old-style furniture. The old grandfather clock standing in the corner,
at the upper end of the room, I should like to have remain. It is one hundred and fifty years
old and belonged to my folks, and, although old-fashioned, is highly valued by me."

"Of course," said Mary, "we'll certainly leave that in the room."

"Also," said Aunt Sarah, "allow the old cottage organ and large, old-fashioned bookcase belonging
to your Uncle to remain. He has frequently spoken of moving his bookcase into the next room,
when he was obliged to come in here for books, of which he has quite a valuable collection."

"Oh," said Mary, "no need of that. We will move Uncle John in here, near the bookcase, when
we get our room fixed up. Aunt Sarah, we will leave that old-fashioned table, also, with one
leaf up against the wall, and this quaint, little, rush-bottomed rocker, which I just dote on."

"Why, dear," exclaimed Aunt Sarah, "there are several chairs to match it in the attic, which
you may have when you start housekeeping for your very own. And," laughingly, said her Aunt,
"there is another old, oval, marble-topped table in the attic, containing a large glass case
covering a basket of wax fruit, which you may have."

"No, Aunt Sarah," said Mary, "I don't believe I want the fruit, but I will accept your offer
of the table. Well, Aunt Sarah, I know you won't have this old, black what-not standing in
the corner of the room. I do believe it is made of spools, strung on wire, as supports for
the shelves; then all painted black, imitation of ebony, I suppose. It must have been made
in the Black Age, at the same time the old corner cupboard was painted, as Uncle John told
me he scraped off three different layers of paint before doing it over, and one was black.
It was originally made of cherry. It certainly looks fine now, with those new brass hinges
and pretty, old-fashioned glass knobs."

"Yes, Mary," replied her Aunt, "and there is an old corner cupboard in the attic which belonged
to my father, that you may have, and, with a very little labor and expense, Ralph can make
it look as well as mine. It has only one door and mine possesses two."

"Aunt Sarah," exclaimed Mary, "you are a dear! How will I ever repay you for all your kindness
to me?"

"By passing it on to some one else when you find some one needing help," said Aunt Sarah.

"Such a collection of odd things, Aunt Sarah, as are on this what-not I never saw. Old ambrotypes
and daguerreotypes of gone and forgotten members of the 'freinshoft,' as you sometimes say.
I don't believe you know any of them."

"Yes, the red plush frame on the mantel shelf contains a picture of John's Uncle, a fine-looking
man, but he possessed 'Wanderlust' and has lived in California for many years.

"Oh, you mean the picture on the mantel standing near those twin gilded china vases, gay with
red and blue paint?"

"Yes; and that small china and gilt stand with little bowl and pitcher was given me when a
small child."

"Suppose I bring a basket and we will fill it with articles from the mantel and what-not,"
said Mary, "and carry them all to the attic, until you have a rummage sale some day. We'll
burn these 'everlasting' and 'straw' flowers, and pampas grass, and this large apple stuck
full of cloves. Here is a small china dog and a little china basket with a plaited china handle
decorated with gilt, and tiny, pink-tinted china roses. And these large, glass marbles containing
little silver eagles inside; also this small, spun-glass ship and blue-and-pink-striped glass
pipe. Aunt Sarah, some of your ancestors must have attended a glass blowers' exhibition in
years past."

"This branch of white coral, these large snail shells (when a child I remember holding them
to my ear to hear a noise resembling the roar of the ocean), and this small basket, fashioned
of twigs and tendrils of grape vine, then dipped in red sealing wax, certainly is a good imitation
of coral, and this plate, containing a miniature ship composed of green postage stamps, we
will place in your corner cupboard."

"And, Aunt Sarah, I suppose this deep, glass-covered picture frame containing a bouquet of
hair flowers, most wonderfully and fearfully made, was considered a work of art in days past
and gone, as was also the crescent in a frame on the opposite side of the room, composed of
flowers made of various seeds of grain and garden vegetables. Those daisies, made of cucumber
seeds with grains of red corn for centres, and those made of tiny grains of popcorn with a
watermelon seed in centre, are cute. The latter look like breastpins with a circle of pearls
around the edge. And this glass case on the table, containing a white cross, covered with wax
tube roses, ivy leaves and fuchsias drooping from the arms of the cross, sparkling with diamond
dust! The band of green chenille around its base matches the mat underneath, composed of green
zephyr of different shades, knitted, then raveled to imitate moss, I suppose; and, no doubt,
this marble-topped table has stood here for fifty years, in this same spot, for the express
purpose of holding this beautiful (?) work of art."

"The hair flowers and the seed wreath were made by John's sister," replied Aunt Sarah.

"Aunt Sarah," exclaimed Mary, "I've an original idea. This oval, marble-topped table has such
strong, solid legs of black walnut, suppose we remove the marble slab and have a large, circular
top made of wood at the planing mill? Wait; I'll get my tape measure. About thirty-two inches
in diameter will do. The new top we shall stain to match the walnut frame, and it could be
easily fastened to the table with a couple of screws; and, after the marble top has been well
scoured, we'll use it in the kitchen as a bake board on which to roll out pie crust."

Her Aunt as usual acquiesced to all Mary's suggestions.

"You're a dear, Aunt Sarah!" exclaimed Mary, as she gave her a hug, "and I'll embroider big,
yellow daisies with brown centres of French knots on gray linen for a new table cover. Won't
they look just sweet?"

"Yes, Mary, and I'll buy a large, new lamp with a pretty shade, as I feel sure your Uncle will
like to sit here evenings to read his papers and farm journals."

"And don't forget the Shriners' little magazine, The Crescent, which amuses him so greatly.
Aunt Sarah, I do wish those stiff, starchy-looking, blue-white Nottingham lace curtains at
the windows had grown yellow with age. They would be ever so much prettier and softer looking,
and they are such a pretty, neat design, too."

"Oh!" replied her Aunt, "that may be easily remedied. I'll just dip them into a little weak
liquid coffee and that will give them a creamy tint, and take out the stiffness."

"Now," said Mary, "what shall we do with these stiff, ugly, haircloth-covered chairs and sofa?"

"Why," replied Aunt Sarah, "we shall buy cretonne or art cloth, in pretty shades of brown and
tan or green, to harmonize with the wall paper, and make slip covers for them all. We could
never think of dispensing with the sofa. It is a very important article of furniture in German
households. The hostess usually gives the person of greatest distinction among her guests the
place of honor beside her on the sofa."

"These chairs have such strong, well-made, mahogany frames it would be a pity not to use them.
Now," continued Mary, "about the pictures on the wall. Can't we consign them all to the attic?
We might use some of the frames. I'll contribute unframed copies of 'The Angelus' and 'The
Gleaners,' by Millet; and I think they would fit into these plain mahogany frames which contain
the very old-fashioned set of pictures named respectively 'The Lovers,' 'The Declaration,'
'The Lovers' Quarrel' and 'The Marriage.' They constitute a regular art gallery. I'll use a
couple of the frames for some small Colonial and apple blossom pictures I have, that I just
love, by Wallace Nutting. Mine are all unframed; 'Maiden Reveries,' 'A Canopied Roof' and a
'Ton of Bloom,' I think are sweet. Those branches of apple trees, covered with a mass of natural-looking
pink blossoms, are exquisite."

"Yes," remarked Aunt Sarah, "they look exactly like our old Baldwin, Winesap and Cider apple
trees in the old, south meadow in the Spring. And, Mary, we'll discard those two chromos, popular
a half century ago, of two beautiful cherubs called respectively, 'Wide Awake' and 'Fast Asleep,'
given as premiums to a popular magazine. I don't remember if the magazine was 'Godey's,' 'Peterson's'
or 'Home Queen'; they have good, plain, mahogany frames which we can use."

"And, Aunt Sarah," said Mary, "we can cut out the partition in this large, black-walnut frame,
containing lithograph pictures of General George Washington, 'the Father of his Country' (we
are informed in small letters at the bottom of the picture), and of General Andrew Jackson,
'the hero of New Orleans.' Both men are pictured on horseback, on gayly-caparisoned, prancing
white steeds, with scarlet saddle cloth, edged with gold bullion fringe. The Generals are pictured
clad in blue velvet coats with white facings of cloth or satin vest and tight-fitting knee
breeches, also white and long boots reaching to the knee. Gold epaulettes are on their shoulders,
and both are in the act of lifting their old-fashioned Continental hats, the advancing army
showing faintly in the background. How gorgeously they are arrayed! We will use this frame
for the excellent, large copy you have of 'The Doctor' and the pictured faces of the German
composers--Beethoven, Wagner, Mendelssohn, Haydn, Schubert and Mozart, which I have on a card
with a shaded brown background, will exactly fit into this plain frame of narrow molding, from
which I have just removed the old cardboard motto, 'No place like home,' done with green-shaded
zephyr in cross-stitch."

"Now, Mary, with the couple of comfortable rockers which I intend purchasing, I think we have
about finished planning our room."

"If you are willing, Aunt Sarah, I should like to make some pretty green and brown cretonne
slips to cover those square sofa pillows in place of the ones made of small pieces of puffed
silk and the one of colored pieces of cashmere in log cabin design, I do admire big, fat, plain,
comfortable pillows, for use instead of show. And we must have a waste paper basket near the
table beside Uncle John's chair. I shall contribute green satin ribbon for an immense bow on
the side of the basket. Oh! Aunt Sarah! You've forgotten all about this odd, woven basket,
beside the what-not, filled with sea shells. I don't care for the shells, but the basket would
make a lovely sewing basket."

"You may have the basket, Mary, if you like it. It came from Panama, or perhaps it was bought
at Aspinwall by John's Uncle, many years ago, when he came home on a visit from California,
by way of the Isthmus, to visit old friends and relatives. John's Mother always kept it standing
on the floor in one corner of the room beside the what-not."

"Aunt Sarah, why was straw ever put under this carpet?"

"The straw was put there, my dear, to save the carpet, should the boards on the floor be uneven.
My Mother was always particular about having cut rye straw, because it was softer and finer
than any other. It was always used in those days instead of the carpet linings we now have.
I remember sometimes, when the carpet had been newly laid, in our home, immediately after house
cleaning time, the surface of the floor looked very odd; full of bumps and raised places in
spots, until frequent walking over it flattened down the straw. This room happens to have a
particularly good, even floor, as this part of the house was built many years later than the
original, old farm house, else it would not do to have it painted."

"Aunt Sarah, may I have the old spinning wheel in the attic? I'd love to furnish an old Colonial
bedroom when I have a home of my very own. I'll use the rag carpet you made me for the floor,
the old-fashioned, high-post bed Uncle John said I might have, and the 'New Colonial' rugs
you taught me to make.

"Yes, my dear, and there is another old grandfather's clock in the attic which you may have;
and a high-boy also, for which I have no particular use."

"Aunt Sarah, we shall not put away this really beautiful old sampler worked in silk by Uncle
John's grandmother when a girl of nine years. It is beautifully done, and is wonderful, I think.
And what is this small frame containing a yellowed piece of paper cut in intricate designs,
presumably with scissors?"

"Look on the back of the picture and see what is written there, my dear," said her Aunt.

Mary slowly read: "'This is the only picture I owned before my marriage. I earned the money
to buy it by gathering wheat heads.'"

"It belonged to my grandmother," said Aunt Sarah. "In old times, after the reapers had left
the field, the children were allowed to gather up the wheat remaining, and, I suppose, grandmother
bought this picture with the money she earned herself, and considered it quite a work of art
in her day. It is over one hundred years old."

CHAPTER XVII.

AN OLD SONG EVENING.

Aunt Sarah and Mary spent few idle moments while carrying out their plans for "doing over"
the old parlor. Finally, 'twas finished. Mary breathed a sigh of satisfaction as the last picture
was hung on the wall. She turned to her Aunt, saying, "Don't you think the room looks bright,
cheery and livable?"

"Yes," replied her Aunt, "and what is more essential, homey, I have read somewhere, 'A woman's
house should be as personal a matter as a spider's web or a snail's shell; and all the thought,
toil and love she puts into it should be preserved a part of its comeliness and homelikeness
forever, and be her monument to the generations.'"

"Well, Aunt Sarah," replied Mary, "I guess we've earned our monument. The air that blows over
the fields, wafted in from the open window, is sweet with the scent of grain and clover, and
certainly is refreshing. I'm dreadfully tired, but so delighted with the result of our labors.
Now we will go and 'make ready,' as Sibylla says, before the arrival of Ralph from the city.
I do hope the ice cream will be frozen hard. The Sunshine Sponge Cake, which I baked from a
recipe the Professor's wife gave me, is light as a feather. 'Tis Ralph's favorite cake. Let's
see; besides Ralph there are coming all the Schmidts, Lucy Robbins, the school teacher, and
Sibylla entertains her Jake in the kitchen. I promised to treat him to ice cream; Sibylla was
so good about helping me crack the ice to use for freezing the cream. We shall have an 'Old
Song Evening' that will amuse every one."

Quite early, as is the custom in the country, the guests for the evening arrived; and both
Mary and Aunt Sarah felt fully repaid for their hard work of the past weeks by the pleasure
John Landis evinced at the changed appearance of the room.

The Professor's wife said, "It scarcely seems possible to have changed the old room so completely."

Aunt Sarah replied, "Paint and paper do wonders when combined with good taste, furnished by Mary."

During the evening one might have been forgiven for thinking Professor Schmidt disloyal to
the Mother Country (he having been born and educated in Heidelberg) had you overheard him speaking
to Ralph on his favorite subject, the "Pennsylvania German." During a lull in the general conversation
in the room Mary heard the Professor remark to Ralph: "The Pennsylvania Germans are a thrifty,
honest and industrious class of people, many of whom have held high offices. The first Germans
to come to America as colonists in Pennsylvania were, as a rule, well to do. Experts, when
examining old documents of Colonial days, after counting thousands of signatures, found the
New York 'Dutch' and the Pennsylvania 'Germans' were above the average in education in those
days. Their dialect, the so-called 'Pennsylvania German' or 'Dutch,' as it is erroneously called
by many, is a dialect which we find from the Tauber Grund to Frankfurt, A.M. As the German
language preponderated among the early settlers, the language of different elements, becoming
amalgamated, formed a class of people frequently called 'Pennsylvania Dutch'."

Professor Harbaugh, D.D., has written some beautiful poems in Pennsylvania German which an
eminent authority, Professor Kluge, a member of the Freiburg University, Germany, has thought
worthy to be included among the classics. They are almost identical with the poems written
by Nadler in Heidelberger Mundart, or dialect.

Mary, who had been listening intently to the Professor, said, when he finished talking to Ralph:
"Oh, please, do repeat one of Professor Harbaugh's poems for us."

He replied, "I think I can recall several stanzas of 'Das Alt Schulhaus an der Krick.' Another
of Professor Harbaugh's poems, and I think one of the sweetest I have ever read, is 'Heemweeh.'
Both poems are published in his book entitled 'Harbaugh's Harfe,' in Pennsylvania German dialect,
and possess additional interest from the fact that the translations of these poems, in the
latter part of the same book, were made by the author himself."

"Oh, do repeat all that you remember of both the poems," begged Mary.

The Professor consented, saying: "As neither you nor Mr. Jackson understand the Pennsylvania
German dialect, I shall translate them for you, after repeating what I remember. 'Heemweeh'
means Homesickness, but first I shall give you 'Das Alt Schulhaus an der Krick'."

[A]DAS ALT SCHULHAUS AN DER KRICK.

    Heit is 's 'xactly zwansig Johr,
      Dass ich bin owwe naus;
    Nau bin ich widder lewig z'rick
    Un schteh am Schulhaus an d'r Krick,
      Juscht neekscht an's Dady's Haus.

    Ich bin in hunnert Heiser g'west,
      Vun Marbelstee' un Brick,
    Un alles was sie hen, die Leit,
    Dhet ich verschwappe eenig Zeit
      For's Schulhaus an der Krick.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Der Weisseech schteht noch an der Dhier--
      Macht Schatte iwwer's Dach:
    Die Drauwerank is ah noch grie'--
    Un's Amschel-Nescht--guk juscht mol hi'--
      O was is dess en Sach!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Do bin ich gange in die Schul,
      Wo ich noch war gans klee';
    Dort war der Meeschter in seim Schtuhl,
    Dort war sei' Wip, un dort sei' Ruhl,--
      Ich kann's noch Alles sch'.

    Die lange Desks rings an der Wand--
      Die grose Schieler drum;
    Uf eener Seit die grose Mad,
    Un dort die Buwe net so bleed--
     Guk, wie sie piepe rum!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Oh horcht, ihr Leit, wu nooch mir lebt,
      Ich schreib eich noch des Schtick:
    Ich warn eich, droll eich, gebt doch Acht,
    Un memmt uf immer gut enacht,
      Des Schulhaus an der Krick!

[Footnote A: From "Harbaugh's Harfe." Published by the Publication and Sunday School Board
of the Reformed Church, Philadelphia, Pa. Used by permission.]

THE OLD SCHOOL-HOUSE AT THE CREEK.

    Today it is just twenty years,
      Since I began to roam;
    Now, safely back, I stand once more,
    Before the quaint old school-house door,
      Close by my father's home.

    I've been in many houses since,
      Of marble built, and brick;
    Though grander far, their aim they miss,
    To lure heart's old love from this
      Old school-house at the creek.

           *       *       *       *       *

    The white-oak stands before the door,
      And shades the roof at noon;
    The grape-vine, too, is fresh and green;
    The robin's nest!--Ah, hark!--I ween
      That is the same old tune!

           *       *       *       *       *

     'Twas here I first attended school,
      When I was very small;
    There was the Master on his stool,
    There was his whip and there his rule--
      I seem to see it all.

    The long desks ranged along the walls,
      With books and inkstands crowned;
    Here on this side the large girls sat,
    And there the tricky boys on that--
      See! how they peep around!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Ye, who shall live when I am dead--
      Write down my wishes quick--
    Protect it, love it, let it stand,
    A way-mark in this changing land--
      That school-house at the creek.

HEEMWEH.

    Ich wees net was die Ursach is--
      Wees net, warum ich's dhu:
    'N jedes Johr mach ich der Weg
      Der alte Heemet zu;
    Hab weiter nix zu suche dort--
      Kee' Erbschaft un kee' Geld;
    Un doch treibt mich des Heemgefiehl
      So schtark wie alle Welt;
    Nor'd schtart ich ewe ab un geh,
      Wie owe schun gemeldt.

    Wie nacher dass ich kumm zum Ziel,
      Wie schtarker will ich geh,
    For eppes in mei'm Herz werd letz
      Un dhut m'r kreislich weh.
    Der letschte Hiwel schpring ich nuf;
      Un ep ich drowe bin,
    Schtreck ich mich uf so hoch ich kann
      Un guk mit Luschte hin;
    Ich seh's alt Schtee'haus dorch die Beem,
      Un wott ich war schunm drin.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Wie gleich ich selle Babble Beem,
      Sie schtehn wie Brieder dar;
    Un uf'm Gippel--g'wiss ich leb!
      Hockt alleweil 'n Schtaar!
    'S Gippel biegt sich--guk, wie's gaunscht--
      'R hebt sich awer fescht;
    Ich seh sei' rothe Fliegle plehn,
      Wann er sei' Feddere wescht;
    Will wette, dass sei' Fraale hot
      Uf sellem Baam 'n Nescht!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Guk! werklich, ich bin schier am Haus!--
      Wie schnell geht doch die Zeit!
    Wann m'r so in Gedanke geht.
      So wees m'r net wie weit.
    Dort is d'r Schhap, die Walschkornkrip,
      Die Seiderpress dort draus;
    Dort is die Scheier, un dort die Schpring--
      Frisch quellt des Wasser raus;
    Un guk! die sehm alt Klapbord-Fens,
      Un's Dheerle vor'm Haus.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Zwee Blatz sin do uf dare Bortsch,
      Die halt ich hoch in Acht,
    Bis meines Lebens Sonn versinkt
      In schtiller Dodtes-Nacht!
    Wo ich vum alte Vaterhaus
      'S erscht mol bin gange fort.
    Schtand mei' Mammi weinend da,
     An sellem Rigel dort:
    Un nix is mir so heilig nau
      Als grade seller Ort.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Was macht's dass ich so dort hi' guk,
      An sell End vun der Bank!
    Weescht du's? Mei' Herz is noch net dodt,
      Ich wees es, Got sei Dank!
    Wie manchmal sass mai Dady dort,
      Am Summer-Nochmiddag,
    Die Hande uf der Schoos gekreizt,
      Sei Schtock bei Seite lag.
    Was hot er dort im Schtille g'denkt?
      Wer mecht es wisse--sag?

HOME-SICK NESS.

    I know not what the reason is:
     Where'er I dwell or roam,
    I make a pilgrimage each year,
     To my old childhood home.
    Have nothing there to give or get--
      No legacy, no gold--
    Yet by some home-attracting power
      I'm evermore controlled;
    This is the way the homesick do,
      I often have been told.

           *       *       *       *       *

    As nearer to the spot I come
      More sweetly am I drawn;
    And something in my heart begins
      To urge me faster on.
    Ere quite I've reached the last hilltop--
      You'll smile at me, I ween!--
    I stretch myself high as I can,
      To catch the view serene--
    The dear old stone house through the trees
      With shutters painted green!

           *       *       *       *       *

    How do I love those poplar trees;
      What tall and stalely things!
    See! on the top of one just now
      A starling sits and sings.
    He'll fall!--the twig bends with his weight!
      He likes that danger best.
    I see the red upon his wings,--
      Dark shining is the rest.
    I ween his little wife has built
      On that same tree her nest.

           *       *       *       *       *

    See! really I am near the house;
      How short the distance seems!
    There is no sense of time when one
      Goes musing in his dreams.
    There is the shop--the corn-crib, too--
      The cider-press--just see!
    The barn--the spring with drinking cup
      Hung up against the tree.
    The yard-fence--and the little gate
      Just where it used to be.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Two spots on this old friendly porch
      I love, nor can forget,
    Till dimly in the night of death
      My life's last sun shall set!
    When first I left my father's house,
      One summer morning bright,
    My mother at that railing wept
      Till I was out of sight!
    Now like a holy star that spot
      Shines in this world's dull night.

           *       *       *       *       *

    What draws my eye to yonder spot--
      That bench against the wall?
    What holy mem'ries cluster there,
      My heart still knows them all!
    How often sat my father there
      On summer afternoon;
    Hands meekly crossed upon his lap,
      He looked so lost and lone,
    As if he saw an empty world,
      And hoped to leave it soon.

At the conclusion of his recital, Mary heartily thanked the Professor, and, at his request,
obediently seated herself at the old, but still sweet-toned cottage organ, and expressed her
willingness to play any old-time songs or hymns requested, and saying, "I know Aunt Sarah's
favorite," commenced playing, "My Latest Sun is Sinking Fast," followed by "This Old-Time Religion,"
"Jesus, Lover of My Soul," "One of the Sweet Old Chapters," "Silver Threads Among the Gold"
and the sweet old hymn, "In the Summer Land of Song," by Fanny Crosby.

At John Landis' request, she played and sang "Auld Lang Syne." "When You and I Were Young,
Maggie," "Old Folks at Home" and "Old Black Joe."

Lucy Robbins, when asked for her favorites, replied; "In the Gloaming," "The Old, Old Home'"
"The Lost Chord" and "Better Bide a Wee."

The Professor then asked his daughter Elizabeth to give them the music of a song from German
Volkslied, or Folk Song, with the words of which all except Mary and Ralph were familiar. Professor
Schmidt sang in his high, cracked voice to Elizabeth's accompaniment the words of the German
song, beginning:

    Du, Du liegest mir in Herzen
      Du, Du liegst mir in Sinn
    Du, Du machst mir viel Schmerzen
      Weist nicht wie gut ich Dir binn
      Ja, ja, ja, ja, Du weist nicht wie gut ich Dir bin.

The young folks all joined in the chorus. Fritz Schmidt asked Elizabeth to play "Polly Wolly
Doodle" for little Pollykins, which Frit sang with gusto. Fritz then sang the rollicking German
song, "Lauderbach," to an accompaniment played by Mary, and followed by singing "Johnny Schmoker,"
with appropriate gestures in the chorus commencing "My Pilly, Willy Wink, das is mein fifa,"
etc., ending with "My fal, lal, lal, my whach, whach, das ist mein doodle soch," which he emphasised
by shrugging his shoulders, to the no small enjoyment of the young folks, who thought the silly,
old German song no end of fun. This was followed by a favorite college song, "Mandalay," by Fritz.

Then Elizabeth Schmidt played and sang a pretty little German song called "Meuhlen Rad," meaning
The Mill Wheel, taught her by her mother.

MEUHLEN RAD.

    In einen kuhlen grunde
      Da steht ein meuhlen rad;
    Mein libste ist versch wunden,
      Die dort gewhoned hat;
    Sie sat mir treu versprochen,
      Gab ihr ein ring dabei;
    Sie hat die treu gebrochen,
      Das ringlein sprang entzwei.

She translated it for the benefit of Ralph and Mary: "In a cool, pleasant spot, stands a mill.
My loved one, who lived there, has disappeared. She promised to be true to me, and I gave her
a ring. She broke her promise and the ring broke in two."

Fritz then caught his little sister Pauline around the waist and waltzed her to one end of
the long room, saying: "Mary, play the piece, 'Put On Your Old Gray Bonnet,' and Pollykins
and I will do the cakewalk for you."

Polly, who had become quite a proficient little dancer under her sister's teaching, was very
willing to do her share in the evening's entertainment, and it was pronounced a decided success.

Mary then said, "I'll play my favorite schottische, composed by our old friend, the Professor.
I have not yet procured a copy of his latest piece of music, 'The Passing of the Dahlias.'
I think it is still with the publishers."

Mary, after playing "Rock of Ages," left the room to see about serving refreshments, when Elizabeth
Schmidt took her place at the instrument. After playing "The Rosary," she turned to Ralph,
who had been greatly amused by the German songs on the program, all of which were quite new
to him, and said: "What shall I play for you?"

He replied, "'My Little Irish Rose'--no, I mean 'The River Shannon.'"

"Don't you mean 'That Grand Old Name Called Mary?'" mischievously inquired Fritz Schmidt, who
could not refrain from teasing Ralph, which caused a laugh at his expense, as all present were
aware of his love for Mary. Elizabeth, to cover Ralph's confusion, quickly replied: "I'll play
my favorite, 'The End of a Perfect Day.'"

The party was pronounced a success, and broke up at a late hour for country folks. Before leaving,
Mary's Uncle said: "Now, let's sing 'Home, Sweet Home,' and then all join in singing that grand
old hymn, 'My Country, 'Tis of Thee,' to the new tune by our friend, the Bucks County Editor."

CHAPTER XVIII.

A VISIT TO THE "PENNSYLVANIA PALISADES," AS THE "NARROWS" OF THE DELAWARE RIVER ARE CALLED.

All hailed with delight Aunt Sarah's proposal that the Schmidt and Landis families, on the
Fourth of July, drive over to the Narrows, visit Aunt Sarah's old home at Nockamixon, and see
the "Ringing Rocks" and "High Falls," situated a short distance from the rocks, near which
place picnics were frequently held. John Landis readily agreed to the proposed plan, saying,
"The meadow hay and clover are cut, and I'll not cut the wheat until the fifth day of July."

The third of July was a busy day at both farm houses, preparing savory food of every description
with which to fill hampers for the next day's outing. Small Polly Schmidt was so perfectly
happy, at the thought of a proposed picnic, she could scarcely contain herself, and as her
sister Elizabeth said, "did nothing but get in every one's way." Little Polly, being easily
offended, trudged over to the Landis farm to see Mary, with whom she knew she was a great favorite.

The morning of the Fourth dawned bright and clear. Quite early, while the earth was still enveloped
in a silvery mist, and on the lattice work of filmy cobwebs, spun over weeds and grass, dewdrops,
like tiny diamonds, sparkled and glistened, until dissolved by the sun's warm rays, the gay
party left home, for the "Palisades" were quite a distance from the farm, to drive being the
only way of reaching the place, unless one boarded the gasoline motorcar, called the "Cornfield
Express" by farmers living in the vicinity of Schuggenhaus Township.

There is something indescribably exhilarating about starting for an early drive in the country
before sunrise on a bright, clear morning in midsummer, when "the earth is awaking, the sky
and the ocean, the river and forest, the mountain and plain." Who has not felt the sweet freshness
of early morning before "the sunshine is all on the wing" or the birds awaken and begin to
chatter and to sing? There is a hush over everything; later is heard the lowing of cattle,
the twitter of birds and hum of insect life, proclaiming the birth of the new day. Passing
an uncultivated field, overgrown with burdock, wild carrots, mullein, thistle and milk weed,
Mary alighted and gathered some of the pods of the latter, inclosing imitation of softest down,
which she used later for filling sofa pillows.

"Look at those pretty wild canaries!" exclaimed Aunt Sarah, "yellow as gold, swinging on the
stem of a tall weed."

"Professor Schmidt, can you tell me the name of that weed?" questioned Mary. "I have always
admired the plant, with its large leaves and long, drooping racemes of crimson seeds.

"That," replied the Professor, "is a foreign plant, a weed called Equisetum from 'Equi,' a
horse, and 'Setum'--tail. The country folk hereabout call it 'Horsetail.' It belongs to the
Crptogamous or flowerless plants. There are only four specimens of this plant in America. I,
too, have always greatly admired the plant."

The Professor was quite a noted botanist. There were few flowers, plants or weeds of which
he was ignorant of the name or medicinal value. Another bird lazily picked seeds from the thistle
blossoms. "See," exclaimed Aunt Sarah, "one bird has a spear of grass in its mouth!"

"Yellow star grass," said the Professor, "with which to make a nest. They never mate until
the last of June, or first part of July. The tiny, little robbers ate up nearly all my sunflower
seeds in the garden last summer."

"Well," replied Mary, "you know, Professor, the birds must have food. They are the farmer's
best friend. I hope you don't begrudge them a few sunflower seeds, I love birds. I particularly
admire the 'Baltimore Oriole,' with their brilliant, orange-colored plumage; they usually make
their appearance simultaneously with the blossoms in the orchard in the south meadow; or so
Aunt Sarah tells me. I love to watch them lazily swinging on the high branches of tall trees.
On the limb of a pear tree in the orchard one day, I saw firmly fastened, a long, pouch-like
nest, woven with rare skill. Securely fastened to the nest by various colored pieces of twine
and thread was one of smaller size, like a lean-to added to a house, as if the original nest
had been found too small to accommodate the family of young birds when hatched. The oriole
possesses a peculiar, sweet, high-whistled trill, similar to this--'La-la-la-la,' which always
ends with the rising inflection."

Fritz Schmidt, who had been listening intently to Mary, gravely remarked, "An oriole built
a nest on a tall tree outside my bedroom window, and early every morning, before the family
arise, I hear it sing over and over again what sounds exactly like 'Lais Die Beevil!' which
translated means 'Read your Bible'."

"Even the birds are 'Dutch,' I believe, in Bucks County," said Fritz. "I think these must be
German Mennonites, there being quite a settlement of these honest, God-fearing people living
on farms at no great distance from our place."

As they drove along the country road, parallel with the Delaware River, just before reaching
the Narrows. Mary was greatly attracted by the large quantities of yellow-white "sweet clover,"
a weed-like plant found along the Delaware River, growing luxuriantly, with tall, waving stems
two to four feet high. The clover-like flowers, in long, loose racemes, terminating the branches,
were so fragrant that, like the yellow evening primrose, the scent was noticeable long before
one perceived the flowers. And, strange to tell, sweet clover was never known to grow in this
locality until the seed was washed up on the bank of the river some ten or twelve years previous
to the date of my story, when the Delaware River was higher than it was ever before known to be.

"The first place we shall visit," said Aunt Sarah, "will be my grandmother's old home, or rather,
the ruins of the old home. It passed out of our family many years ago; doors and windows are
missing and walls ready to tumble down. You see that old locust tree against one side the ruined
wall of the house?" and with difficulty she broke a branch from the tree saying, "Look, see
the sharp, needle-shaped thorns growing on the branch! They were used by me when a child to
pin my dolls' dresses together. In those days, pins were too costly to use; and look at that
large, flat rock not far distant from the house! At the foot of that rock, when a child of
ten, I buried the 'Schild Krote Family' dolls, made from punk (when told I was too big a girl
to play with dolls). I shed bitter tears, I remember. Alas! The sorrows of childhood are sometimes
deeper than we of maturer years realize."

"Why did you give your family of dolls such an odd name, Aunt Sarah?" questioned Mary.

"I do not remember," replied her Aunt. "Schild Krote is the German name for turtle. I presume
the name pleased my childish fancy."

"Suppose we visit my great-great-grandfather's grave in the near-by woods. I think I can locate
it, although so many years have passed since I last visited it."

Passing through fields overgrown with high grass, wild flowers and clover, they came to the
woods. Surprising to say, scarcely any underbrush was seen, but trees everywhere--stately Lebanon
cedars, spruce and spreading hemlock, pin oaks, juniper trees which later would be covered
with spicy, aromatic berries; also beech trees. Witch hazel and hazel nut bushes grew in profusion.
John Landis cut a large branch from a sassafras tree to make a new spindle on which to wind
flax, for Aunt Sarah's old spinning wheel (hers having been broken), remarking as he did so,
"My mother always used a branch of sassafras wood, having five, prong-like branches for this
purpose, when I was a boy, and she always placed a piece of sassafras root with her dried fruit."

The Professor's wife gathered an armful of yarrow, saying, "This is an excellent tonic and
should always be gathered before the flowers bloom. I wonder if there is any boneset growing
anywhere around here."

Boneset, a white, flowering, bitter herb, dearly beloved and used by the Professor's wife as
one of the commonest home remedies in case of sickness, and equally detested by both Fritz
and Pauline.

Mary gathered a bouquet of wild carrot, or "Queen Anne's Lace," with its exquisitely fine,
lace-like flowers with pale green-tinted centres. Mary's Uncle could not agree with her in
praise of the dainty wild blossoms. He said: "Mary, I consider it the most detested weed with
which I am obliged to contend on the farm."

After quite a long, tiresome walk in the hot sun, they discovered the lonely grave, covered
with a slab of granite surrounded by a small iron railing and read the almost illegible date--"Seventeen
Hundred and Forty." Ralph said, "If he ever sighed for a home in some vast wilderness, his
wish is granted." It certainly was a lonely grave in the deep woods, and gave all the members
of the party a sad and eerie feeling as they wended their way out into the sunlight again,
to the waiting carriages, and were soon driving swiftly along the Narrows, as they have been
called from time immemorial by the inhabitants, although I prefer the name of Pennsylvania
Palisades, as they are sometimes called.

Said Professor Schmidt: "Numerous tourists visit the Narrows every year. The Narrows are said
to resemble somewhat the Palisades on the Hudson. I have seen, the latter and think these greatly
resemble them and are quite as interesting and picturesque."

"The name Narrows is derived from the fact that at this place the Delaware River has forced
itself through the rocky barrier," continued the Professor, "hedged in on one side by cliffs
of perpendicular rock, three hundred feet high, extending some distance along the river, leaving
scarcely room at some places for the river and the canal. Some quite rare plants grow here,
said to be found in few other localities in the United States. You see the highest flat rock
along the Narrows? It is called 'Top Rock' and rises to a height of more than three hundred
feet. We shall drive around within a short distance of it; then, after passing a small house,
we are obliged to walk across a field of ploughed ground; follow the well-beaten path between
trees and undergrowth, and 'Top Rock' is before us. Stepping upon the high ledge of rock projecting
out over the road beneath, we discover it may also be reached by following a precipitous path
and clinging to bushes and trees, but none of the party venture. Recently the body of a man
who had been searching for rare birds' eggs on the side of this self-same rock was found dead
on the path below the rocks. What caused his fall is not known. No wonder Aunt Sarah says it
makes her dizzy when you boys skip stones across the river while standing on the rock."

The beautiful view of the Delaware River and the scenery on the opposite side was something
long to be remembered. While the party were going into raptures over the beautiful sight, Professor
Schmidt turned to Mary and remarked: "In those rocks which rise in perpendicular bluffs, several
hundred feet above the level of the river, are evidence that prehistoric man may have inhabited
the caves in these same walls of rock along the Delaware. From implements and weapons found,
it does not require any great effort of imagination to believe the 'Cave Man' dwelt here many
centuries ago."

Fritz Schmidt was much interred in his father's conversation, and from that time on called
Ralph Jackson Mary's "Cave Man."

Leaving Top Rock, the party wended their way back to the waiting carriages in the road, and
drove to the "Ringing or Musical Rocks." They had been informed that their nearest approach
to the rocks was to drive into the woods to reach them. Passing a small shanty at the roadside,
where a sign informed the passerby that soft drinks were to be obtained, the party dismounted
and found, to their surprise, a small pavilion had been erected with bench, table and numerous
seats composed of boards laid across logs, where camp meetings had formerly been held. As the
large trees furnished shade, and a spring of fresh water was near by, they decided to "strike"
camp and have lunch before going farther into the woods.

Aunt Sarah and the Professor's wife spread a snowy cloth over the rough wooden table, quickly
unpacked the hampers, and both were soon busily engaged preparing sandwiches of bread, thinly
sliced, pink cold ham and ground peanuts, fried chicken and beef omelette; opening jars of
home-made pickles, raspberry jam and orange marmalade.

"Oh!" said Pauline, "I'm so hungry for a piece of chocolate cake. Let me help shell the eggs,
so we can soon have dinner."

"Here's your fresh spring water," called Fritz, as he joined the party, a tin pail in his hand,
"We had such an early breakfast, I'm as hungry as a bear."

The party certainly did full justice to the good things provided with a lavish hand by Frau
Schmidt and Aunt Sarah. All were in high spirits. The Professor quoted from the Rubaiyat of
Omar Khayyam--

    Here with a loaf of bread beneath the bough.
    A flask of wine, a book of verse and thou,
    Beside me singing in the wilderness,
    And wilderness is Paradise enow.

Ralph cast a look at Marry, unnoticed by any one else, as much as to say, "The old tentmaker
voiced my sentiments."

After the hampers had been repacked and stowed away in the carriages, they with the horses
were left in the shade while the party walked to "High Falls," at no great distance from the
camp. "High Falls," a beautiful waterfall about thirty feet high and fifty feet wide, is situated
several hundred feet east of the Ringing Rocks. The water, before dashing below, passes over
a large, solid, level floor of rock. After gazing at the Falls and picturesque surroundings,
they searched through the woods for the Ringing Rocks, a peculiar formation of rocks of irregular
shape and size, branching out from a common centre in four directions. The rocks vary in size
from a few pounds to several tons in weight. Arriving there, Aunt Sarah said: "Ralph, you will
now find use for the hammer which I asked you to bring." Ralph struck different rocks with
the hammer, and Fritz Schmidt struck rocks with other pieces of rock, and all gave a peculiar
metallic sound, the tones of each being different. The rocks are piled upon each other to an
unknown depth, not a particle of earth being found between them, and not a bush or spear of
grass to be seen. They occupy a space of about four and a half acres and are a natural curiosity
well worth seeing. The young folks scrambled over the rocks for a time, and, having made them
ring to their hearts' content, were satisfied to return to camp and supper.

"Not far distant from High Falls," said John Landis, when all were comfortably seated near
the table, with a sandwich in hand, "is a place called Roaring Rocks, also a freak of nature.
I remember, when a boy, I always went there in the fall of the year, after the first hard frost,
to pick persimmons. The water could he distinctly heard running underneath the rocks at a considerable
depth."

Ralph Jackson remarked to Aunt Sarah: "I never imagined there were so many interesting, natural
features right here in Bucks County."

"Oh, yes," exclaimed the impressible Fritz Schmidt, "we have a few things besides pigs and
potatoes."

"Yes, Ralph," said the Professor, "there are still several places of interest you will like
to see. 'Stony Garden' is another very interesting freak of nature. It is about two and a half
miles from the small town of 'Snitzbachsville,' as Fritz calls the hamlet, and 'tis a wild
spot. About an acre is covered with trap rock. The stones are of odd shapes and sizes and appear
as if thrown into the forest in the wildest confusion. No earth or vegetation is found about
them. 'Tis said the rocks are similar to those found at Fingal's Cave, Ireland, and also at
the Palisades on the Hudson, and are not found anywhere else in this section of the country."

"And Ralph," said Fritz, "I want to show you 'Big Rock,' at Avondale, where a party of us boys
camped one summer for two weeks. Oh! but I remember the good pies given us by a farmer's wife
who sold us milk and eggs, and who lived just across the fields from our camp."

"I think," said John Landis, "it is time we began hitching up our horses and starting for home.
We have a long drive before us, and, therefore, must make an early start. Sarah, get the rest
of the party together and pack up your traps."

At that moment the Professor came in sight with an armful of ferns, the rich loam adhering
to their roots, and said: "I'm sure these will grow." Later he planted them on a shady side
of the old farm house at "Five Oaks," where they are growing today. Professor Schmidt, after
a diligent search, had found clinging to a rock a fine specimen of "Seedum Rhodiola," which
he explained had never been found growing in any locality in the United States except Maine.
Little Pauline, with a handful of flowers and weeds, came trotting after Mary, who carried
an armful of creeping evergreen called partridge berry, which bears numerous small, bright,
scarlet berries later in the season. Ralph walked by her side with a basket filled to overflowing
with quantities of small ferns and rock moss, with which to border the edge of the waiter on
which Mary intended planting ferns; tree moss or lichens, hepaticas, wild violets, pipsissewa
or false wintergreen, with dark green, waxy leaves veined with a lighter shade of green; and
wild pink geraniums, the foliage of which is prettier than the pink blossoms seen later, and
they grow readily when transplanted.

Aunt Sarah had taught Mary how to make a beautiful little home-made fernery. By planting these
all on a large waiter, banking moss around the edges to keep them moist and by planting them
early, they would be growing finely when taken by her to the city in the fall of the year--a
pleasant reminder of her trip to the "Narrows" of the Delaware River. Frau Schmidt brought
up the rear, carrying huge bunches of mint, pennyroyal and the useful herb called "Quaker Bonnet."

Driving home at the close of the day, the twinkling lights in farm house windows they swiftly
passed, were hailed with delight by the tired but happy party, knowing that each one brought
them nearer home than the one before. To enliven the drowsy members of the party, Fritz Schmidt
sang the following to the tune of "My Old Kentucky Home," improvising as he sang:

    The moon shines bright on our "old Bucks County home,"
      The meadows with daisies are gay,
    The song of the whipporwill is borne on the breeze,
      With the scent of the new mown hay.
    Oh! the Narrows are great with their high granite peaks,
      And Ringing Rocks for ages the same;
    But when daylight fades and we're tired and cold,
      There's no place like "hame, clear alt hame."

The last lingering rays of the sun idealized the surrounding fields and woods with that wonderful
afterglow seen only at the close of day. The saffron moon appeared to rise slowly from behind
the distant tree-tops, and rolled on parallel with them, and then ahead, as if to guide them
on their way, and the stars twinkled one by one from out the mantle of darkness which slowly
enveloped the earth. The trees they swiftly passed, when the moonbeams touched them, assumed
gigantic, grotesque shapes in the darkness.

"You mean 'The Merry Picknickers Came,'" said Fritz Schmidt, as Mary finished, "and here we
are at home. Good night, all."

CHAPTER XIX.

MARY IS TAUGHT TO MAKE PASTRY, PATTIES AND "ROSEN KUCHEN."

Mary's Aunt taught her to make light, flaky pastry and pies of every description. In this part
of Bucks County a young girl's education was considered incomplete without a knowledge of pie-making.
Some of the commonest varieties of pies made at the farm were "Rivel Kuchen," a pie crust covered
with a mixture of sugar, butter and flour crumbled together; "Snitz Pie," composed of either
stewed dried apples or peaches, finely mashed through a colander, sweetened, spread over a
crust and this covered with a lattice-work of narrow strips of pastry laid diamond-wise over
the top of the pie; "Crumb" pies, very popular when served for breakfast, made with the addition
of molasses or without it; Cheese pies, made of "Smier Kase;" Egg Custard, Pumpkin and Molasses
pie.

Pies were made of all the different fruits and berries which grew on the farm. When fresh fruits
were not obtainable, dried fruits and berries were used. Pie made from dried, sour cherries
was an especial favorite of Farmer Landis, and raisin or "Rosina" pie, as it was usually called
at the farm, also known as "Funeral" pie, was a standby at all seasons of the year, as it was
invariably served at funerals, where, in old times, sumptuous feasts were provided for relatives
and friends, a regular custom for years among the "Pennsylvania Germans," and I have heard
Aunt Sarah say, "In old times, the wives of the grave-diggers were always expected to assist
with the extra baking at the house where a funeral was to be held."

It would seem as if Bucks County German housewives did not like a dessert without a crust surrounding
it.

The Pennsylvania German farmers' wives, with few exceptions, serve the greatest variety of
pies at a meal of any class of people I know; not alone as a dessert at twelve o'clock dinner,
but frequently serve several different varieties of pie at breakfast and at each meal during
the day. No ill effects following the frequent eating of pie I attribute to their active life,
the greater part of which, during the day, was usually spent in the open air, and some credit
may he due the housewife for having acquired the knack of making good pie crust, which was
neither very rich nor indigestible, if such a thing be possible.

The combination of fruit and pastry called pie is thought to be of American invention. Material
for pies at a trifling cost were furnished the early settlers in Bucks County by the large
supply of fruit and vegetables which their fertile farms produced, and these were utilized
by the thrifty German housewives, noted for their wise management and economy.

The Professor's wife taught Mary to make superior pastry, so flaky and tender as to fairly
melt in one's mouth; but Mary never could learn from her the knack of making a dainty, crimped
edge to her pies with thumb and forefinger, although it looked so very simple when she watched
"Frau Schmidt" deftly roll over a tiny edge as a finish to the pie.

Mary laughingly told the Professor's wife (when speaking of pies) of the brilliant remark she
made about lard, on first coming to the farm. Her Aunt Sarah, when baking pies one day, said
to her, "Look, Mary, see this can of snowy lard, rendered from pork, obtained from our fat
pigs last winter!"

"Why, Aunt Sarah!" exclaimed Mary, "is lard made from pork fat? I always thought lard was made
from milk and butter was made from cream."

The Professor's wife possessed, besides a liking for pies, the German's fondness for anything
pertaining to fritters. She used a set of "wafer and cup irons" for making "Rosen Kuchen,"
as she called the flat, saucer-like wafer; and the cup used for serving creamed vegetables,
salads, etc., was similar to pattie cases.

"The 'Wafer and Cup Irons,'" said Frau Schmidt, "were invented by a friend of mine, also a
teacher and an excellent cook, besides; she gave me several of her original recipes, all to
be served on wafers or in patties. You shall have a set of the irons when you start housekeeping.
Mary. You will be surprised at the many uses you will find for them. They are somewhat similar
to Rosette Irons, but I think them an improvement. They are pieces of fluted steel fastened
to a long handle and one is cup-shaped. This latter is particularly fine for making patties.
Then the cup may be filled and served on saucer-like wafers, which I call 'Rosen Kuchen,' or
the 'Rosen Kuchen' may be simply dusted with a mixture consisting of one cup of sugar, one
teaspoonful of cinnamon and a quarter teaspoonful of powdered cardamon seed, and served on
a plate, as dainty cakes or wafers."

Aunt Sarah, when cooking fritters, always used two-thirds lard and one-third suet for deep
frying, but "Frau Schmidt" taught Mary to use a good brand of oil for this purpose, as she
thought food fried in oil more digestible and wholesome than when fried in lard. The patties
or wafers were easily made. "Frau Schmidt" placed the long-handled iron in hot fat, the right
temperature for frying fritters. When the iron was heated she quickly and carefully wiped off
any surplus fat, then at once dipped the hot wafer iron into a bowl containing the batter she
had prepared (the recipe for which she gave Mary), then dipped the iron into the hot fat; when
the batter had lightly browned she gently dropped it from the iron onto brown paper, to absorb
any fat which might remain. These are quickly and easily prepared and, after a few trials,
one acquires proficiency. Pattie cases or cup-shapes are made in a similar manner. They are
not expensive and may be kept several weeks in a cool, dry place. When wanted for table use,
place in a hot oven a few minutes to reheat. They make a dainty addition to a luncheon by simply
dusting the "Rosen Kuchen" with pulverised sugar. Creamed vegetables of any variety may be
served on them by placing a spoon of cream dressing on top of each, over which grate yolk of
hard boiled egg; or use as a foundation on which to serve salads; or serve fruit on them with
whipped cream. The patties or cups may be used to serve creamed chicken, oysters, or sweetbreads
if no sugar be used in the batter. These pattie cases are exactly like those sold at delicatessen
counters, in city stores, and are considered quite an addition to a dainty luncheon. They are
rather expensive to buy, and we country housewives cannot always procure them when wanted,
and they may be made at home with a small amount of labor and less expense.

"The Germans make fritters of almost everything imaginable," continued the Professor's wife.
"One day in early Spring I saw a German neighbor gathering elderberry blossoms, of which she
said she intended making fritters. I asked her how they were made, being curious, I will confess.
She sent me a plate of the fritters and they were delicious. I will give you her recipe should
you care for it. Mary, have you ever eaten a small, sweet wafer called 'Zimmet Waffle?' My
mother made them at Christmas time, in Germany. Should I be able to procure a small 'waffle,'
or I should call it wafer, iron, in the city, I will teach you how they are made. I think them
excellent. My mother made a cake dough similar to that of pound cake. To one portion she added
cinnamon, to the other chocolate, and the last portion was flavored with vanilla. A piece of
dough the size of a small marble was placed in the wafer iron, which was then pressed together
and held over the fire in the range, by a long handle, until the wafer was crisp and brown.
They are delicious and will keep indefinitely."

The Professor's wife finished speaking to Mary, and turned to her daughter Elizabeth, saying,
"It is time I mix the dough if we are to have 'Boova Shenkel' for dinner today. I see the potatoes
have steamed tender."

"Oh, goody!" said Pauline, "I just love 'Boova Shenkel!'"

"Then," said her Mother, "run down into the cellar and get me three eggs for them, and Mary,
I'll write off the recipe for you, if you wish it, as I feel sure you'll like them as well
as Pauline. And Elizabeth, dust powdered sugar over this plate of 'Rosen Kuchen,' and you,
Mary and Pauline, leave this hot kitchen and have lunch out in the 'Espalier,' as your Father
calls it."

"I think," said Mary to Elizabeth, after they were seated in the shade, prepared to enjoy the
"Rosen Kuchen," "this little, natural, home-grown summer-house is the oddest and prettiest
little place I've ever seen."

"Yes," assented Elizabeth, "Father said he made it as nearly like as possible to a large one
at Weisbaden, no great distance from his old home in Germany. He says the 'Frauer Esche,' meaning
Weeping Ash, at Weisbaden, had tables and benches placed beneath spreading branches of the
tree, and picnics were frequently held there. This one was made by the larger branches of the
Weeping Ash, turning downward, fastened by pieces of leather to a framework nailed to the top
of posts in the ground, about two yards apart, surrounding the tree. The posts, you notice,
are just a little higher than an ordinary man, and when the leaves thickly cover the tops and
sides, protecting one from the sun's rays, it is an ideal Summer-house. We frequently sit here
evenings and afternoons; Mother brings her sewing and Pauline her doll family, which, you know,
is quite numerous."

"I never saw a Summer-house at all like it," said Mary.

The Professor's wife not only taught Mary the making of superior pastry and the cooking of
German dishes, but what was of still greater importance, taught her the value of different
foods; that cereals of every description, flour and potatoes, are starchy foods; that cream,
butter, oil, etc., are fat foods; that all fruits and vegetables contain mineral matter; and
that lean meat, eggs, beans, peas and milk are muscle-forming foods. These are things every
young housekeeper should have a knowledge of to be able to plan nourishing, wholesome, well-balanced
meals for her family. And not to serve at one time a dish of rice, cheese and macaroni, baked
beans and potatoes. Serve instead with one of these dishes fruit, a vegetable or salad. She
said, "beans have a large percentage of nutriment and should be more commonly used." She also
said graham and corn bread are much more nutritious than bread made from fine white flour,
which lacks the nutritious elements. Indian corn is said to contain the largest amount of fat
of any cereal. It is one of our most important cereal foods and should be more commonly used
by housewives; especially should it be used by working men whose occupation requires a great
amount of physical exercise. Particularly in cold weather should it be frequently served, being
both cheap and wholesome.

The Professor's wife laughingly remarked to Mary, "When I fry fritters or 'Fast Nacht' cakes,
Fritz and Pauline usually assist such a large number of them in disappearing before I have
finished baking, I am reminded of 'Doughnutting Time,' by J.W. Foley. Have you never read the
poem? I sometimes feel that it must have been written by me."

[A]"DOUGHNUTTING TIME."

    Wunst w'en our girl wuz makin' pies an' doughnuts--'ist a Lot--
    We stood around with great, big eyes, 'cuz we boys like 'em hot;
    And w'en she dropped 'em in the lard, they sizzled 'ist like fun,
    And w'en she takes 'em out, it's hard to keep from takin' one.

    And 'en she says: "You boys'll get all spattered up with grease."
    And by-um-by she says she'll let us have 'ist one apiece;
    So I took one for me, and one for little James McBride,
    The widow's only orfunt son, 'ats waitin' there outside.

    An' Henry, he took one 'ist for himself an' Nellie Flynn,
    'At's waitin' at the kitchen door and dassent to come in,
    Becuz her Mother told her not; and Johnny, he took two,
    'Cus Amey Brennan likes 'em hot, 'ist like we chinnern do.

    'En Henry happened 'ist to think he didn't get a one
    For little Ebenezer Brink, the carpet beater's son,
    Who never gets 'em home, becuz he says, he ain't quite sure,
    But thinks perhaps the reason wuz, his folkeses are too poor.

    An 'en I give my own away to little Willie Biggs
    'At fell down his stairs one day, an' give him crooked legs,
    'Cuz Willie always seems to know w'en our girl's goin' to bake.
    He wouldn't ast for none. Oh, no! But, my! he's fond of cake.

    So I went back an' 'en I got another one for me,
    Right out the kittle smokin' hot, an' brown as it could be;
    An' John he got one, too, becuz he give his own to Clare,
    An' w'en our girl she looked, there wuz 'ist two small doughnuts
    there.

    My! she wuz angry w'en she looked an' saw 'ist them two there,
    An' says she knew 'at she had cooked a crock full an' to spare;
    She says it's awful 'scouragin' to bake and fret an' fuss,
    An' w'en she thinks she's got 'em in the crock, they're all in us.

[Footnote A: The poem "Doughnutting Time," from "Boys and Girls," published by E.P. Dutton,
by permission of the author, James W. Foley.]

       * * * * * * *

The Professor's wife gave Mary what she called her most useful recipe. She said, "Mary, this
recipe was almost invaluable to me when I was a young housekeeper and the strictest economy
was necessary. Sift into a bowl, one cup of flour, one even teaspoonful of baking powder (I
use other baking powders occasionally, but prefer 'Royal'), then cut through the flour either
one tablespoonful of butter or lard, add a pinch of salt, and mix into a soft dough with about
one-half cup of sweet milk. Mix dough quickly and lightly, handling as little as possible.
Drop large spoonfuls of the batter in muffin pans and bake in a quick oven for tea biscuits;
or, sift flour thickly over the bread board, turn out the dough, roll several times in the
flour, give one quick turn with the rolling-pin to flatten out dough, and cut out with small
cake cutter, (I prefer using a small, empty tin, 1/2 pound baking powder can, to cut out cakes.)
Place close together in an agate pan and bake, or bake in one cake in a pie tin and for shortcake;
or place spoonfuls of the dough over veal or beef stew and potatoes or stewed chicken, and
cook, closely covered, about fifteen minutes. Of course, you will have sufficient water in
the stew pan to prevent its boiling away before the pot-pie dumplings are cooked, and, of course,
you know, Mary, the meat and potatoes must be almost ready to serve when this dough is added.
Then I frequently add one teaspoonful of sugar to the batter and place spoonfuls over either
freshly stewed or canned sour cherries, plums, rhubarb or apples. In fact, any tart fruit may
be used, and steam, closely covered, or place large tablespoonful of any fruit, either canned
or stewed, in small custard cups, place tablespoonfuls of batter on top and steam or bake,
and serve with either some of the stewed fruit and fruit juice, sugar and cream, or any sauce
preferred."

"The varieties of puddings which may be evolved from this one formula," continued the Professor's
wife, "are endless, and, Mary, I should advise you to make a note of it. This quantity of flour
will make enough to serve two at a meal, and the proportions may be easily doubled if you wish
to serve a large family."

"Then, Mary, I have a recipe taken from the 'Farmers' Bulletin' for dumplings, which I think
fine. You must try it some time. Your Aunt Sarah thinks them 'dreadfully extravagant.' They
call for four teaspoonfuls of baking powder to two cups of flour, but they are perfect puff
balls, and this is such a fast age, why not use more baking powder if an advantage? I am always
ready to try anything new I hear about."

"Yes," replied Mary, "I just love to try new recipes, I will experiment with the dumplings
one of these days. Aunt Sarah says I will never use half the recipes I have; but so many of
them have been given me by excellent and reliable old Bucks County cooks, I intend to copy
them all in a book, and keep for reference after I leave the farm."

CHAPTER XX.

OLD POTTERIES AND DECORATED DISHES.

One day, looking through the old corner cupboard, Mary exclaimed, "Aunt Sarah, you certainly
possess the finest collection of quaint old china dishes I have ever seen. I just love those
small saucers and cups without handles; yes, and you have plates to match decorated with pinkish,
lavender peacock feathers, and those dear little cups and saucers, decorated inside with pink
and outside with green flowers, are certainly odd; and this queerly-shaped cream jug, sugar
bowl and teapot, with pale green figures, and those homely plates, with dabs of bright red
and green, they surely must be very old!"

"Yes, dear, they all belonged to either John's mother or mine. All except this one large, blue
plate, which is greatly valued by me, as it was given me many years ago by a dear old friend,
Mary Butler, a descendant of one of the oldest families in Wyoming Valley, whose, forefathers
date back to the time of the 'Wyoming Massacre,' about which so much has been written in song
and story.

"The very oddest plates in your collection are those two large earthenware dishes, especially
that large circular dish, with sloping sides and flat base, decorated with tulips."

"Yes, Mary, and it is the one I value most highly. It is called sgraffito ware. A tulip decoration
surrounds a large red star in the centre of the plate. This belonged to my mother, who said
it came from the Headman pottery at Rockhill Township, about the year 1808. I know of only
two others in existence at the present time; one is in a museum in the city of Philadelphia
and the other one is in the Bucks County Historical Society at Doylestown, Pa. The other earthenware
plate you admire, containing marginal inscription in German which when translated is 'This
plate is made of earth, when it breaks the potter laughs,' is the very oldest in my collection,
the date on it, you see, is 1786. Those curved, shallow earthenware pie plates, or 'Poi Schissel,'
as they are frequently called in this part of Bucks County, I value, even if they are quite
plain and without decoration, as they were always used by my mother when baking pies, and I
never thought pies baked in any other shaped dish tasted equally as good as hers. These pie
plates were manufactured at one of the old potteries near her home. All the old potters have
passed away, and the buildings have crumbled to the ground. Years ago, your mother and I, when
visiting the old farm where the earlier years of our childhood were passed, stopped with one
of our old-time friends, who lived directly opposite the old Herstine pottery, which was then
in a very dilapidated condition; it had formerly been operated by Cornelius Herstine (we always
called him 'Neal' Herstine)."

"Together we crossed the road, forced our way through tangled vines and underbrush, and, peering
through windows guiltless of glass, we saw partly-finished work of the old potters crumbling
on the ground. The sight was a sad one. We realized the hand of time had crumbled to dust both
the potter and his clay. Still nearer my old home was the McEntee pottery. From earliest childhood
our families were friends. We all attended the 'Crossroads' School, where years later a more
modern brick structure was built, under the hill; not far distant from 'The Narrows' and the
'Ringing Rocks.' Yes, Mary, my memory goes back to the time when the McEntee pottery was a
flourishing industry, operated by three brothers, John, Patrick and Michael. When last I visited
them but few landmarks remained."

"Was there a pottery on your father's farm, Aunt Sarah?" inquired Mary.

"No. The nearest one was the McEntee pottery, but the grandson of the old man who purchased
our old farm at my father's death had a limekiln for the purpose of burning lime, and several
miles distant, at the home of my uncle, was found clay suitable for the manufacture of bricks.
Only a few years ago this plant was still in operation. My father's farm was situated in the
upper part of Bucks County, in what was then known as the Nockamixon Swamp, and at one time
there were in that neighborhood no less than seven potteries within two miles of each other."

"Why," exclaimed Mary, "were there so many potteries in that locality?"

"'Twas due, no doubt, to the large deposits of clay found there, well suited to the manufacture
of earthenware. The soil is a clayey loam, underlaid with potter's clay. The old German potters,
on coming to this country, settled mostly in Eastern Pennsylvania, in the counties of Bucks
and Montgomery. The numerous small potteries erected by the early settlers were for the manufacture
of earthenware dishes, also pots of graded sizes. These were called nests, and were used principally
on the farm for holding milk, cream and apple-butter. Jugs and pie plates were also manufactured.
The plates were visually quite plain, but they produced occasionally plates decorated with
conventionalized tulips, and some, more elaborate, contained besides figures of animals, birds
and flowers. Marginal inscriptions in English and German decorate many of the old plates, from
which may be learned many interesting facts concerning the life and habits of the early settlers.
I think, judging from the inscriptions I have seen on some old plates, it must have taxed the
ingenuity of the old German potters to think up odd, original inscriptions for their plates."

"Aunt Sarah, how was sgraffito ware made? Is it the same as slip-decorated pottery?"

"No, my dear, the two are quite different. The large plate you so greatly admired is called
sgraffito or scratched work, sometimes called slip engraving. It usually consists of dark designs
on a cream-colored ground. After the plates had been shaped over the mold by the potter, the
upper surface was covered by a coating of white slip, and designs were cut through this slip
to show the earthenware underneath. This decoration was more commonly used by the old potters
than slip decorating, which consisted in mixing white clay and water until the consistency
of cream. The liquid clay was then allowed to run slowly through a quill attached to a small
cup, over the earthenware (before burning it in a kiln) to produce different designs. The process
is similar to that used when icing a cake, when you allow the icing to run slowly from a pastry
tube to form fanciful designs. I have watched the old potters at their work many a time when
a child. The process employed in the manufacture of earthenware is almost the same today as
it was a century ago, but the appliances of the present day workmen are not so primitive as
were those of the old German potters. Mary, a new pottery works has been started quite lately
in the exact locality where, over one hundred years ago, were situated the Dichl and Headman
potteries, where my highly-prized, old sgraffito plate was manufactured. I hear the new pottery
has improved machinery for the manufacture of vases, flower pots, tiles, etc. They intend manufacturing
principally 'Spanish tiles' from the many acres of fine clay found at that place. The clay,
it is said, burns a beautiful dark, creamy red. As you are so much interested in this subject,
Mary, we shall visit this new pottery some day in the near future, in company with your Uncle
John. It is no great distance from the farm. Quite an interesting story I have heard in connection
with a pottery owned by a very worthy Quaker in a near-by town may interest you, as your father
was a Philadelphia Quaker and Ralph's parents were Quakers also."

"Yes, indeed, Aunt Sarah! I'd love to hear the story."

"This Quaker sympathized with the colored race, or negroes, in the South. This was, of course,
before slavery was abolished. You don't remember that time, Mary, You are too young. It is
only history to you, but I lived it, and when the slaves ran away from their owners and came
North to Philadelphia they were sent from there, by sympathizers, to this Quaker, who kept
an underground station. The slaves were then placed, under his direction, in a high 'pot wagon,'
covered with layers or nests of earthenware pots of graduated sizes. I heard the driver of
one of these pot wagons remark one time that when going down a steep hill, he put on the brake
and always held his breath until the bottom of the hill was reached, fearing the pots might
all be broken. The wagon-load containing earthenware and slaves was driven to Stroudsburg,
where the pots were delivered to a wholesale customer. Here the runaways were released from
their cramped quarters and turned over to sympathizing friends, who assisted them in reaching
Canada and safety. I have frequently met the fine-looking, courtly old gentleman who owned
the pottery, and old Zacariah Mast, the skilled German potter whom he employed. They were for
many years familiar figures in the little Quaker town, not many miles distant. Both passed
away many years ago."

Mary, who still continued her explorations of the corner cupboard, exclaimed: "Oh! Aunt Sarah!
Here is another odd, old plate, way back on the lop shelf, out of sight."

"Yes, dear, that belonged to your Uncle John's mother. It has never been used and was manufactured
over one hundred years ago at an old pottery in Bedminister Township, Bucks County. Some of
those other quaint, old-fashioned plates also belonged to John's mother. Your Uncle loves old
dishes and especially old furniture; he was so anxious to possess his grandfather's old 'Solliday'
clock. In the centre of the face of the clock a hand indicated the day of the month and pictures
of two large, round moons on the upper part of the clock's face (resembling nothing so much
as large, ripe peaches) represented the different phases of the moon. If new moon, or the first
or last quarter, it appeared, then disappeared from sight. It was valued highly, being the
last clock made by the old clockmaker; but John never came into possession of it, as it was
claimed by an elder sister. I value the old clock which stands in the parlor because 'twas
my mother's, although it is very plain. This old cherry, corner cupboard was made for my grandmother
by her father, a cabinetmaker, as a wedding gift, and was given me by my mother. Did you notice
the strong, substantial manner in which it is made? It resembles mission furniture."

"Do tell me, Aunt, what this small iron boat, on the top shelf, was ever used for? It must
be of value, else 'twould not occupy a place in the cupboard with all your pretty dishes."

"Yes, dearie, 'twas my grandmother's lamp, called in old times a 'Schmutz Amschel' which, translated,
means a grease robin, or bird. I have two of them. I remember seeing my grandmother many a
time, when the 'Amschel' was partly filled with melted lard or liquid fat, light a piece of
lamp wick hanging over the little pointed end or snout of the lamp. The lamp was usually suspended
from a chain fastened to either side. A spike on the chain was stuck into the wall, which was
composed of logs. This light, by the way, was not particularly brilliant, even when one sat
close beside it, and could not be compared with the gas and electric lights of our present
day and generation. That was a very primitive manner of illumination used by our forefathers.

"Mary, did you notice the gayly-decorated, old-fashioned coffee pot and tea caddy in the corner
cupboard? They belonged to my grandmother; also that old-fashioned fluid lamp, used before
coal-oil or kerosene came into use; and that old, perforated tin lantern also is very ancient.

"Mary, have you ever read the poem, The Potter and the Clay?' No? Then read it to me, dear,
I like it well; 'tis a particular favorite of mine, I do not remember by whom it was written."

THE POTTER AND THE CLAY.

(Jeremiah xviii 2-6.)

    The potter wrought a work in clay, upon his wheel;
    He moulded it and fashioned it, and made it feel,
    In every part, his forming hand, his magic skill,
    Until it grew in beauty fair beneath his will.

    When lo! through some defect, 'twas marred and broken lay,
    Its fair proportions spoiled, and it but crumbling clay;
    Oh, wondrous patience, care and love, what did he do?
    He stooped and gathered up the parts and formed anew.

    He might have chosen then a lump of other clay
    On which to show his skill and care another day,
    But no; he formed it o'er again, as seemed him good;
    And who has yet his purpose scanned, his will withstood?

    Learn thou from this a parable of God's great grace
    Toward the house of Israel, His chosen race;
    He formed them for His praise; they fell and grieved Him sore,
    But He will yet restore and bless them evermore.

    And what He'll do for Israel, He'll do for thee;
    Oh soul, so marred and spoiled by sin, thou yet shall see
    That He has power to restore, He will receive,
    And thou shall know His saving grace, only believe.

    Despair not, He will form anew thy scattered life,
    And gather up the broken parts, make peace from strife;
    Only submit thou to His will of perfect love,
    And thou shall see His fair design in Heaven above.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE VALUE OF WHOLESOME, NUTRITIOUS FOOD.

"Yes, my dear," said Frau Schmidt (continuing a conversation which had occurred several days
previously between herself and Mary), "we will have more healthful living when the young housewife
of the present day possesses a knowledge of different food values (those food products from
which a well-balanced meal may be prepared) for the different members of her household. She
should endeavor to buy foods which are most nourishing and wholesome; these need not necessarily
consist of the more expensive food products. Cheaper food, if properly cooked, may have as
fine a flavor and be equally as nutritious as that of higher price.

"And, Mary, when you marry and have a house to manage, if possible, do your own marketing,
and do not make the mistake common to so many young, inexperienced housewives, of buying more
expensive food than, your income will allow. Some think economy in purchasing food detrimental
to their dignity and to the well-being of their families; often the ones most extravagant in
this respect are those least able to afford it. Frequently the cause of this is a lack of knowledge
of the value of different foods. The housewife with a large family and limited means should
purchase cheaper cuts of meat, which become tender and palatable by long simmering. Combine
them with different vegetables, cooked in the broth, and serve as the principal dish at a meal,
or occasionally serve dumplings composed of a mixture of flour and milk, cooked in the broth,
to extend the meat flavor. Frequently serve a dish of rice, hominy, cornmeal and oatmeal, dried
beans and peas. These are all nutritious, nourishing foods when properly cooked and attractively
served. And remember, Mary, to always serve food well seasoned. Many a well-cooked meal owes
its failure to please to a lack of proper seasoning. This is a lesson a young cook must learn.
Neither go to the other extreme and salt food too liberally. Speaking of salt, my dear, have
you read the poem, 'The King's Daughters,' by Margaret Vandegrift? If not, read it, and then
copy it in your book of recipes."

"THE KING'S DAUGHTERS."

  The King's three little daughters, 'neath the palace window straying,
  Had fallen into earnest talk that put an end to playing;
  And the weary King smiled once again to hear what they were saying;
  "It is I who love our father best," the eldest daughter said;
  "I am the oldest princess," and her pretty face grew red;
  "What is there none can do without? I love him more than bread."
  Then said the second princess, with her bright blue eyes aflame;
  "Than bread, a common thing like bread! Thou hast not any shame!
  Glad am I, it is I, not thou, called by our mother's name;
  I love him with a better love than one so tame as thine,
  More than--Oh! what then shall I say that is both bright and fine?
  And is not common? Yes, I know. I love him more than wine."
  Then the little youngest daughter, whose speech would sometimes halt,
  For her dreamy way of thinking, said, "Nay, you are both in fault.
  'Tis I who love our father best, I love him more than salt."
  Shrill little shrieks of laughter greeted her latest word,
  As the two joined hands exclaiming. "But this is most absurd!"
  And the King, no longer smiling, was grieved that he had heard,
  For the little youngest daughter, with her eyes of steadfast grey,
  Could always move his tenderness, and charm his care away;
  "She grows more like her mother dead," he whispered day by day,
  "But she is very little and I will find no fault,
  That while her sisters strive to see who most shall me exalt,
  She holds me nothing dearer than a common thing like salt."

  The portly cook was standing in the courtyard by the spring,
  He winked and nodded to himself, "That little quiet thing
  Knows more than both the others, as I will show the King."
  That afternoon, at dinner, there was nothing fit to eat.
  The King turned angrily away from soup and fish and meat,
  And he found a cloying sweetness in the dishes that were sweet;
  "And yet," he muttered, musing, "I cannot find the fault;
  Not a thing has tasted like itself but this honest cup of malt."
  Said the youngest princess, shyly: "Dear father, they want salt."

  A sudden look of tenderness shone on the King's dark face,
  As he sat his little daughter in the dead queen's vacant place,
  And he thought: "She has her mother's heart; Ay, and her mother's grace;
  Great love through channels will find its surest way.
  It waits not state occasions, which may not come or may;
  It comforts and it blesses, hour by hour, and day by day."

CHAPTER XXII.

A VARIETY OF CAKES EVOLVED FROM ONE

"Aunt Sarah," questioned Mary one day, "will you tell me how it is possible to evolve a number
of cakes from one recipe?"

"Certainly I will, my dear," said her Aunt. "For instance, take the simple recipe from which
I have for years baked layer cake. You may have other recipes given you, equally as good, but
I feel positive none better. The cake made from this recipe is not rich enough to be unwholesome,
but a good, reliable, inexpensive, easily-made cake, with which I have never had a failure.

"The recipe, as you know, consists of 1-1/4 cups of granulated sugar, 1/2 cup of a mixture
of butter and sweet lard (or use all butter), 1/2 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour and 2 teaspoonfuls
baking powder. 3 eggs.

"The simplest manner of baking this cake is in two square cake pans. When baked, take from
pans and ice each cake with a boiled chocolate icing and put together as a layer cake, or ice
each cake with a plain, boiled white icing and, when this is cold, you may spread over top
of each cake unsweetened chocolate, which has been melted over steam after being grated. When
cake is to be served, cut in diamonds or squares. Or add to the batter 1 cup of chopped hickory
nut meats, bake in 2 layers and cut in squares.

"For a chocolate loaf cake, add two generous tablespoonfuls of unsweetened melted chocolate
to the batter just before baking. If you wish a chocolate layer cake, use the same batter as
for the chocolate loaf cake, bake in two layer pans and put together with white boiled icing.

"Or, add to this same batter one scant teaspoonful of cinnamon, ginger, 1/2 teaspoonful of
grated nutmeg and cloves, a cup of raisins or dried currants, and you have a small fruit cake.

"Or, add a small quantity of thinly-shaved citron to the original recipe, flavor with lemon,
bake in a loaf and spread a white icing flavored with lemon extract over top of cake, and you
have a lemon cake.

"Or, add chocolate and spices to one-half the batter (about one-half as much chocolate and
spices as were used in batter for fruit cake) and place spoonfuls of the light and dark batter
alternately in a cake pan, until all batter has been used, and you will have a cheap, old-fashioned
Marble cake.

"Or, bake cake over original recipe, in two-layer pans, placing between layers either tart
jelly, a creamy cornstarch filling, grated cocoanut, apple cream filling, or you might even
use half the recipe given for the delicious icing or filling for Lady Baltimore cake.

"Lastly, bake small cakes from this same recipe. Mary, you should have small pans for baking
these delicious little cakes, similar to those I possess, which I ordered made at the tinsmith's.
I took for a pattern one Frau Schmidt loaned me. They are the exact size of one-quarter pound
boxes of Royal baking powder. Cut the box in three pieces of equal height, and your cakes will
be equally as large in diameter as the baking powder box, but only one-third as high. I think
I improved on Frau Schmidt's cake tins, as hers were all separate, I ordered twelve tins, similar
to hers, to be fastened to a piece of sheet iron. I had two of these iron sheets made, containing
twenty-four little pans. I place a generous tablespoonful of the batter in each of the twenty-four
small pans, and cakes rise to the top of pans. Usually I have batter remaining after these
are filled. Ice all the cake except the top with a white boiled icing or chocolate icing. These
small cakes keep exceedingly well, and are always liked by young folks and are particularly
nice for children's parties".

"Speaking of cakes, Aunt Sarah," said Mary, "have you ever used Swansdown cake flour? I have
a friend in the city who uses it for making the most delicious Angel cake, and she gave me
a piece of Gold cake made over a recipe in 'Cake Secrets,' which comes with the flour, and
it was fine. I'll get a package of the flour for you the first time I go to the city. The flour
resembles a mixture of ordinary flour and cornstarch. It is not a prepared flour, to be used
without baking powder, and you use it principally for baking cakes. I have the recipe for both
the Gold and Angel cakes, with the instructions for baking same. They are as follows:"

ANGEL CAKE.

"For the Angel cake, use one even cupful of the whites of egg (whites of either eight large
or nine small eggs); a pinch of salt, if added when beating eggs, hastens the work. One and
one-quarter cups granulated sugar, 1 cup of Iglehart's Swansdown cake flour. Sift flour once,
then measure and sift three times. Beat whites of eggs about half, add 1/2 teaspoonful of cream
of tartar then beat whites of eggs until they will stand of their own weight. Add sugar, then
flour, not by stirring, but by folding over and over, until thoroughly mixed. Flavor with 1/2
teaspoonful of vanilla or a few drops of almond extract. As much care should be taken in baking
an Angel Food cake as in mixing. Bake in an ungreased patent pan. Place the cake in an oven
that is just warm enough to know there is a fire inside the range. Let the oven stay just warm
through until the batter has raised to the top of the cake pan, then increase the heat gradually
until the cake is well browned over. If by pressing the top of the cake with the finger it
will spring back without leaving the impression of the finger, the cake is done through. Great
care should be taken that the oven is not too hot to begin with, as the cake will rise too
fast and settle or fall in the baking. It should bake in from 35 to 40 minutes' time. When
done, invert the pan and let stand until cold before removing it. Should you see cake browning
before it rises to top of pan, throw your oven door open and let cold air rush in and cool
your oven instantly. Be not afraid. The cold air will not hurt the cake. Two minutes will cool
any oven. Watch cake closely. Don't be afraid to open oven door every three or four minutes.
This is the only way to properly bake this cake. When cake has raised above top of pan, increase
your heat and finish baking rapidly. Baking too long dries out the moisture, makes it tough
and dry. When cake is done it begins to shrink. Let it shrink back to level of pan. Watch carefully
at this stage and take out of oven and invert immediately. Rest on centre tube of pan. Let
hang until perfectly cold, then take cake carefully from pan. When baking Angel cake always
be sure the oven bakes good brown under bottom of cake. If cake does not crust under bottom
it will fall out when inverted and shrink in the fall."

"I never invert my pans of Angel cake on taking them from oven," said Mary's Aunt, "as the
cakes are liable to fall out even if the pan is not greased. I think it safer to allow the
pans containing the cakes to stand on a rack and cool without inverting the pan.

"Suppose, Mary, we bake a Gold cake over the recipe from 'Cake Secrets,' as eggs are plentiful;
but we haven't any Swansdown flour. I think we will wait until we get it from the city."

GOLD CAKE.

Yolks of 8 eggs; 1-1/4 cups granulated sugar, 3/4 cup of butter, 3/4 cup water, 2-1/2 cups
of Swansdown cake flour, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1/2 teaspoonful lemon extract.
Sift flour once, then measure. Add baking powder and sift three times. Cream butter and sugar
thoroughly; beat yolks to a stiff froth; add this to creamed butter and sugar, and stir thoroughly
through. Add flavor, add water, then flour. Stir very hard. Place in a slow oven at once. Will
bake in from 30 to 40 minutes. Invert pan immediately it is taken from oven.

Mary, this batter may also be baked in layers with any kind of filling desired. The Angel cake
receipt is very similar to an original recipe Frau Schmidt gave me; she uses cornstarch instead
of Swansdown flour and she measures the eggs in a cup instead of taking a certain number; she
thinks it more exact.

"Aunt Sarah, did you know Frau Schmidt, instead of using flour alone when baking cakes, frequently
uses a mixture of flour and cornstarch? She sifts together, several times, six cups of flour
and one cup of cornstarch, and uses this instead of using flour alone.

"I dearly love the Professor's wife--she's been so very good to me," exclaimed Mary.

"Yes," replied her Aunt, "she has very many lovable qualities."

Mary's liking for bright, energetic Frau Schmidt was not greater than the affection bestowed
on Mary by the Professor's wife, who frequently entertained Mary with tales of her life when
a girl in Germany, to all of which Mary never tired listening. One Aunt, a most estimable woman,
held the position of valued and respected housekeeper and cook for the Lord Mayor of the city
wherein she resided. Another relative, known as "Schone Anna," for many years kept an inn named
"The Four Seasons," noted for the excellent fare served by the fair chatelaine to her patrons.
The inn was made famous by members of the King's household stopping there while in the town
during the Summer months, which was certainly a compliment to her good cooking. One of the
things in which she particularly excelled was potato cakes raised with yeast. Frau Schmidt
had been given a number of these valuable recipes by her mother, all of which she offered to
Mary. One recipe she particularly liked was "Fast Nacht Cakes," which the Professor's wife
baked always without fail on Shrove Tuesday (or "Fast Nacht" day), the day before the beginning
of Lent. This rule was as "unchangeable as the law of Medes and Persians," and it would have
been a very important event, indeed, which would have prevented the baking of these toothsome
delicacies on that day.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE OLD "TAUFSCHIEN."

Aunt Sarah had long promised to show Mary her Grandmother's "Taufschien," and she reverently
handled the large old family Bible, which contained between its sacred pages the yellowed paper,
being the birth and christening certificate of her grandmother, whom we read was born in 1785,
in Nockamixon Township, was confirmed in 1802, and was married in 1805 to the man who was later
Aunt Sarah's grandfather. The old certificate was signed by a German Reformed minister named
Wack, who history tells us was the first young man of that denomination to be ordained to the
ministry in America. Folded with this "Taufschien" is another which has never been filled out.
This is printed in German. Pictures of women, perhaps they are intended to represent angels,
with golden wings, clothed in loose-flowing crimson drapery and holding harps in their hands;
birds with gayly-colored plumage of bluish green, crimson and yellow, perched on branches of
what presumably represent cherry trees, also decorate the page. Religious hymns printed on
the "Taufschiens," encircled with gay stripes of light blue and yellow, dotted with green,
further embellish them. On one we read:

    "Infinite joy or endless woe,
      Attend on every breath;
    And yet, how unconcerned we go
      Upon the brink of death."

"Mary, this old 'Taufschien' of my grandmother's is one of my most cherished possessions. Would
you like to see your Uncle's old deed, which he came into possession of when he inherited the
farm from his father?"

Carefully unfolding the stiff old parchment or pigskin deed, yellowed and brown spotted with
age, Mary could faintly decipher the writing wherein, beautifully written, old-fashioned penmanship
of two hundred years ago stated that a certain piece of land in Bucks County, Beginning at
a Chestnut Oak, North to a post; then East to a large rock, and on the South unsettled land,
which in later years was conveyed to John Landis.

"This deed," said Mary's Aunt, "was given in 1738, nearly two hundred years ago, by John, Thomas
and Richard Penn, sons of William Penn by his second marriage, which occurred in America. His
eldest son, John Penn, you have no doubt heard, was called 'The American,' he having been born
in this country before William Penn's return to Europe, where he remained fifteen years, as
you've no doubt heard."

At the bottom of the deed a blue ribbon has been slipped through cuts in the parchment, forming
a diamond which incloses what is supposed to be the signature of Thomas Penn.

"Aunt Sarah, I am not surprised that you value this old deed of the farm and these 'Taufschiens'
of your grandmother I should frame them, so they may be preserved by future generations."

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE OLD STORE ON THE RIDGE ROAD.

Aunt Sarah found in Mary a willing listener when talking of the time in years past when her
grandfather kept a small "Country Store" on the Ridge Road in Bucks County. She also remembered,
when a child of ten, accompanying her grandfather on one of his trips when he drove to Philadelphia
to purchase goods for his store.

"They had no trolley cars in those days?" asked Mary.

"No, my dear, neither did they have steam cars between the different towns and cities as we
have now."

"At grandfather's store could be bought both groceries and dry goods. The surrounding farmers'
wives brought to the store weekly fresh print butter, eggs, pot cheese and hand-case, crocks
of apple-butter, dried sweet corn, beans, cherries, peach and apple 'Snitz,' taking in exchange
sugar, starch, coffee, molasses, etc. My father tapped his sugar maples and mother cooked down
the syrup until thick, and we used that in place of molasses. They also took in exchange shaker
flannel, nankeen, indigo blue and 'Simpson' gray calico, which mother considered superior to
any other, both for its washing and wearing qualities. The farmers who came occasionally to
the store to shop for different members of the family frequently bought whole pieces of calico
of one pattern, and," affirmed Aunt Sarah, "I knew of one farmer who bought several whole pieces
of one pattern with rather large figures on a dark wine ground, resembling somewhat the gay
figures on an old paisley shawl. He said 'twas a good, serviceable color, and more economical
to buy it all alike, and remarked: 'What's the difference, anyway? Calico is calico.' From
the same piece of calico his wife made dresses, aprons and sunbonnets for herself and daughters,
shirts for the farmer and his sons (the boys were young, fortunately), and patchwork quilts
and comfortables from the remainder."

"Rather monotonous, I should think," said Mary. "I am surprised his wife did not make him wear
coat and trousers made from the same piece of calico."

"The dry goods," continued Aunt Sarah, "retained the scent of coffee, cheese and dried fruits
some time after being purchased but no one minded that in those days. I still remember how
perfectly wonderful to me when a child appeared the large, wide-mouthed glass jars containing
candy. There were red and white striped mint sticks, striped yellow and white lemon sticks
and hoarhound and clear, wine-colored sticks striped with lines of white, flavored with anise-seed.
One jar contained clear lemon-colored 'Sour Balls,' preferred by us children on account of
their lasting qualities, as also were the jujubees, which resembled nothing so much as gutta
percha, and possessed equally as fine flavor; also pink and yellow sugar-frosted gumdrops.
In a case at one end of the counter were squares of thick white paper covered with rows of
small pink, also white, 'peppermint buttons,' small sticks, two inches in length, of chewing
gum in waxed paper, a white, tasteless, crystalline substance resembling paraffine. What longing
eyes I frequently cast at the small scalloped cakes of maple sugar, prohibitive as regards
cost. They sold for a nickel, am I was always inordinately fond of maple sugar, but the price
was prohibitive. I seldom possessed more than a penny to spend in those days, and not always
that. Father raised a large family, money was never plentiful, and we relished the plain, cheap
candies usually sold in those days more than many children of the present day do the finest
and most expensive cream chocolates, to many of whom in this extravagant age a dollar is not
valued more highly than was a penny by us in years gone by. And 'Candy Secrets!' I don't believe
you know what they are like. I've not seen any for years. They were small, square pieces of
taffy-like candy, wrapped in squares of gilt or silver paper, inclosing a small strip of paper
containing a couple of sentimental lines or jingle. Later came 'French Secrets.' They consisted
of a small oblong piece of candy about an inch in length, wrapped in tissue paper of different
colors, having fringed ends, twisted together at either end. These also inclosed a tiny strip
of paper containing a line or two. Small, white candy hearts contained the words in pink letters,
'Little Sweetheart,' 'I Love You,' 'Name the Day,' etc. These were invariably distributed among
the young folks at small parties and created no end of merriment."

"Mary, old as I am, I still remember the delight I experienced when a little, rosy-cheeked
urchin surreptitiously passed me around the corner of my desk at the old 'Cross Roads School'
a 'Secret,' with the words, 'Do you love me?' My grandmother always kept a supply of hoarhound
and peppermint lozenges in her knitting basket to give us children should we complain of hoarseness.
My, but 'twas astonishing to hear us all cough until grandmother's supply of mints was exhausted.
I think. Mary, I must have had a 'sweet tooth' when a child, as my recollections seem to be
principally about the candy kept in my grandfather's store. I suppose in those early days of
my childhood candy appealed to me more than anything else, as never having had a surfeit of
sweets, candy to me was a rare treat. I remember, Mary, when a little child, my thrifty mother,
wishing to encourage me to learn to knit my own stockings, she, when winding the skein of German
yarn into a ball, occasionally wound a penny in with the yarn. I was allowed to spend the penny
only after I had knitted the yarn and the penny had fallen from the ball. What untold wealth
that penny represented! And planning how to spend it was greater pleasure still. Many a pair
of long old-fashioned, dark blue and red-striped stockings, were finished more quickly than
otherwise would have been done without the promised reward. I became proficient in knitting
at an early age," continued Aunt Sarah; "a truly feminine occupation, and as I one time heard
a wise old physician remark, 'Soothing to the nerves,' which I know to be true, having knitted
many a worry into the heel of a sock. I learned at an early age the value of money, and once
having acquired the saving habit, it is not possible to be wasteful in later life."

CHAPTER XXV.

AN ELBADRITCHEL HUNT.

Fritz Schmidt, like many another Bucks County boy, had frequently heard the rural tale of a
mythical bird called the "Elbadritchel," supposed to be abroad, particularly on cold, dark,
stormy nights, when the wind whistled and blew perfect gales around exposed corners of houses
and barns. 'Twas a common saying among "Pennsylvania Germans," at such times, "'Tis a fine
night to catch 'Elbadritchels.'"

For the information of those who may not even have heard of this remarkable creature, it is
described as being a cross between a swallow, a goose and a lyre bird. Have you ever seen an
"Elbadritchel?" No one has to my certain knowledge, so I cannot vouch for the truth of this
description of it.

Fritz Schmidt had never taught to question the truth of the tale. So, when one cold, stormy
night several boys from neighboring farms drove up to the Schmidt homestead and asked Fritz
to join them in a hunt for "Elbadritchels," he unhesitatingly agreed to make one of the number,
unaware that he had been selected as the victim of a practical joke, and, as usual, was one
of the jolliest of the crowd. They drove through a blinding downpour of rain and dismounted
on reaching a lonely hill about three miles distant. They gave Fritz a bag to hold. It was
fashioned of burlap and barrel hoops, inside of which they placed a lighted candle, and Fritz
was instructed how to hold it in order to attract the "Elbadritchel." They also gave him a
club with which to strike the bird when it should appear.

The boys scampered off in different directions, ostensibly to chase up the birds, but in reality
they clambered into the waiting wagon and were rapidly driven home, leaving Fritz alone awaiting
the coming of the "Elbadritchel." When Fritz realized the trick played on him, his feelings
may be better imagined than described. He trudged home, cold and tired, vowing vengeance on
the boys, fully resolved to get even with them.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE OLD SHANGHAI ROOSTER.

Much of Aunt Sarah's spare time was devoted to her chickens, which fully repaid her for the
care given them. She was not particular about fancy stock, but had quite a variety--White Leghorns,
Brown Leghorns, big, fat, motherly old Brahma hens that had raised a brood of as many as thirty-five
little chicks at one time, a few snow-white, large Plymouth Rocks and some gray Barred one.
The latter she liked particularly because she said they were much, more talkative than any
of the others; they certainly did appear to chatter to her when she fed them. She gave them
clean, comfortable quarters, warm bran mash on cold winter mornings, alternating with cracked
corn and "scratch feed" composed of a mixture of cracked corn, wheat and buckwheat, scattered
over a litter of dried leaves on the floor of the chicken house, so they were obliged to work
hard for their food.

A plentiful supply of fresh water was always at hand, as well as cracked oyster shell. She
also fed the chickens all scraps from the table, cutting all meat scraps fine with an old pair
of scissors hung conveniently in the kitchen.

She was very successful with the little chicks hatched out when she "set" a hen and the yield
of eggs from her hens was usually greater and the eggs larger in size than those of any of
her neighbors. This I attribute to her excellent care of them, generous diet, but principally
to the fact of the elimination of all the roosters among the flock during the season between
the "first of May and December first," with one exception. "Brigham," an immensely large, old,
red Shanghai rooster, a most pompous and dignified old chap. A special pet of Aunt Sarah's,
she having raised him from a valuable "setting" of eggs given her, and as the egg from which
"Brigham," as he was called, emerged, was the only one of the lot which proved fertile, he
was valued accordingly and given a longer lease of life than the other roosters, and was usually
either confined or allowed to roam outside the chicken yard during the summer months; in the
winter, being a swift runner, he usually gobbled up two shares of food before the hens arrived.
That accounted for his great size. The old rooster was also noted for his loud crowing.

One day in early Spring, John Landis came into the house hurriedly, saying, "Sarah, your old
Shanghai rooster is sick."

"Yes," answered his wife, "I missed hearing him crow this morning; he is usually as regular
as an alarm clock."

She hurried to the barnyard, picked up poor Brigham, wrapped him carefully in a piece of blanket
and laid him in a small shed. The next morning she was awakened by the lusty crowing of Brigham,
who was apparently as well as ever. The next day the same thing happened. Aunt Sarah found
him, as she supposed, in a dying condition, and the following morning he was fully recovered.
It was quite puzzling until one day John Landis came into the kitchen laughing heartily and
said, "Sarah, I am sorry to inform you of the intemperate habits of your pet, Brigham. He is
a most disreputable old fellow, and has a liking for liquor. He has been eating some of the
brandied cherries which were thrown into the barnyard when the jug containing them was accidentally
broken at house cleaning time.

"Well, Sarah, old Brigham was not sick at all--only 'ingloriously' drunk." In the fall of the
same year Aunt Sarah spied Brigham one day on top of one of the cider barrels in the shed busily
engaged eating the pummace which issued from the bung-hole of the barrel. John Landis, on hearing
of Brigham's last escapade, decided, as the rooster was large as an ordinary-turkey, to serve
him roasted at Mary's wedding.

Fritz Schmidt remarked one day in the presence of Sibylla: "Chickens must possess some little
intelligence; they know enough to go to bed early. Yes, and without an 'alarm clock,' too,
Sibylla, eh?"

She walked away without a word to Fritz. The alarm clock was a sore subject with her, and one
about which she had nothing to say. Sibylla had never quite forgiven Fritz for the prank played
on her. He, happening to hear John Landis tell Sibylla a certain hour he thought a proper time
for Jake Crouthamel to take his departure Sunday evenings, Fritz conceived the brilliant (?)
idea of setting the alarm clock to "go off" quite early in the evening. He placed the clock
at the head of the stairs, and in the midst of an interesting conversation between the lovers
the alarm sounded with a loud, whizzing noise, which naturally made quick-tempered Sibylla
very angry. She said on seeing Fritz the next morning: "It was not necessary to set the 'waker'
to go off, as I know enough to send 'Chake' home when it's time."

Fritz, happening to tell the story to the editor of a small German Mennonite paper, edited
in a near-by town, it was printed in that paper in German, which caused Sibylla, on hearing
it, to be still more angry at the Professor's son.

CHAPTER XXVII.

"A POTATO PRETZEL."

In the early part of September Mary's Aunt suggested she try to win the prize offered at the
Farmers' Picnic in a near-by town for the best "Raised Potato Cake." Aunt Sarah's rye bread
invariably captured first prize, and she proposed sending both bread and cake with Sibylla
and Jake, who never missed picnic or fair within a radius of one hundred miles.

Mary set a sponge the evening of the day preceding that of the picnic, using recipe for "Perfection
Potato Cake," which Aunt Sarah considered her best recipe for raised cakes, as 'twas one used
by her mother for many years.

On the day of the picnic, Mary arose at five o'clock, and while her Aunt was busily engaged
setting sponge for her loaf of rye bread, Mary kneaded down the "potato cake" sponge, set to
rise the previous evening, now rounded over top of bowl and light as a feather.

She filled a couple of pans with buns, molded from the dough, and set them to rise. She then,
under her Aunt's direction, fashioned the "Pretzel" as follows: She placed a piece of the raised
dough on a large, well-floured bake board, rolled it over and over with both hands until a
long, narrow roll or strip was formed about the width of two fingers in thickness and placed
this strip carefully on the baking sheet, which was similar to the one on which Aunt Sarah
baked rye bread; shaped the dough to form a figure eight (8) or pretzel, allowing about two
inches of space on either side of baking sheet to allow for raising. She then cut a piece of
dough into three portions, rolled each as thick as a finger, braided or plaited the three strips
together and placed carefully on top of the figure eight, or pretzel, not meeting by a space
of about two inches. This braided piece on the top should not be quite as thick as bottom or
first piece of the pretzel. She then rolled three small pieces of dough into tiny strips or
rolls the size of small lead pencils, wound them round and round and round into small scrolls,
moistened the lower side with water to cause them to adhere, and placed them on the dividing
line between the two halves of the figure eight. She placed an old china coffee cup without
a handle, buttered on outside, in centre of each half of the figure eight, which kept the pretzel
from spreading over the pan. With a small, new paint brush she brushed over the top of Pretzel
and Buns, a mixture, consisting of one yolk of egg, an equal quantity of cream or milk (which
should be lukewarm so as not to chill the raised dough) and one tablespoon of sugar. This causes
the cakes, etc., to be a rich brown when baked, a result to be obtained in no other manner.

When the pretzel was raised and had doubled in size 'twas baked in a moderately hot oven.

Mary's surprise and delight may easily be imagined when Sibylla, on her return from the picnic,
handed her the prize she had won, a two-pound box of chocolates, remarking, "Mary, you and
Aunt Sarah both got a prize--her's is in the box what Jake's got."

The box on being opened by Aunt Sarah contained a very pretty, silver-plated soup ladle, the
prize offered for the best loaf of rye bread.

"Aunt Sarah," inquired Mary one day, "do you think it pays a housekeeper to bake her own bread?"

"Certainly, it pays, my dear. From a barrel of flour may be baked three hundred or more one-pound
loaves of bread; should you pay five cents a loaf, the bread which may be made from one barrel
of flour if bought from a bake shop would cost you fifteen dollars. Now, you add to the cost
of a barrel of flour a couple of dollars for yeast, salt, etc., which altogether would not
possibly be more than ten dollars, and you see the housewife has saved five dollars. It is
true it is extra work for the housewife, but good, wholesome bread is such an important item,
especially in a large family, I should advise the thrifty housekeeper to bake her own bread
and bake less pie and cake, or eliminate less important duties, to be able to find time to
bake bread. From the bread sponge may be made such a number of good, plain cakes by the addition
of currants or raisins, which are more wholesome and cheaper than richer cakes."

"I think what you say is true, Aunt Sarah," said Mary.

"Frau Schmidt always bakes her own bread, and she tells me she sets a sponge or batter for
white bread, and by the addition of Graham flour, cornmeal or oatmeal, always has a variety
on her table with a small expenditure of time and money."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

FAITHFUL SERVICE.

The home-making instinct was so strongly developed in Mary that her share in the labor of cooking
and baking became a pleasure. Occasionally she had failures--what inexperienced cook has not?--yet
they served only to spur her on to fresh efforts. She had several small scars on her wrist
caused by her arm coming in contact with the hot oven when baking. She laughingly explained:
"One bar on my arm represents that delicious 'Brod Torte' which Frau Schmidt taught me to bake;
the other one I acquired when removing the sponge cake from the oven which Uncle John said
'equaled Aunt Sarah's' (which I consider highest praise), and the third bar I received when
taking from the oven the 'Lemon Meringue,' Ralph's favorite pie, which he pronounced 'fine,
almost too good to eat.'" Mary was as proud of her scars as a young, non-commissioned officer
of the chevron on his sleeve, won by deeds of valor.

The lessons Mary learned that summer on the farm while filling her hope chest and preparing
her mind for wifehood were of inestimable value to her in later years. She learned not only
to bake, brew and keep house, but from constant association with her Aunt she acquired a self-poise,
a calm, serene manner, the value of which is beyond price in this swift, restless age.

One day, while having a little heart-to-heart talk with Mary, her Aunt said: "My dear, never
allow an opportunity to pass for doing a kind act. If ever so small, it may cheer some sad,
lonely heart. Don't wait to do big things. The time may never come. If only a kind word, speak
it at once. Kind words cost so little, and we should all be more prodigal with them; and to
a tired, sad, discouraged soul, a kind word or act means so very much; and who is there that
has not at some time in life known sorrow and felt the need of sympathy? Were our lives all
sunshine we could not feel in touch with sorrowing friends. How natural it is for our hearts
to go out in sympathy to the one who says 'I have suffered.' Give to your friend the warm hand-clasp
and cheery greeting' which cost us nothing in the giving. 'Tis the little lifts which help
us over stones in our pathway through life. We think our cross the heaviest when, did we but
know the weight of others, we'd not willingly exchange; and remember Mary, 'there are no crown-bearers
in Heaven that were not cross-bearers below.' Have you ever read the poem, 'The Changed Cross?'
No? Well, I will give it to you to copy in your book of recipes. Should you ever, in future
years, feel your cross too heavy to bear, read the poem. How many brave, cheery little women
greet us with a smile as they pass. But little do we or any one realize that instead of a song
in their hearts the smiles on their lips conceal troubles the world does not suspect, seeking
to forget their own sorrows while doing kindly acts for others.

"FAITHFUL OVER A FEW THINGS."

Matt. xxv: 23.

  It may seem to you but a trifle, which you have been called to do;
  Just some humble household labor, away from the public view,
  But the question is, are you faithful, and striving to do your best,
  As in sight of the Blessed Master, while leaving to Him the rest?

  It may be but a little corner, which you have been asked to fill;
  What matters it, if you are in it, doing the Master's will?
  Doing it well and faithfully, and doing it with your might;
  Not for the praise it may bring you, but because the thing is right.

  In the sight of man you may never win anything like success;
  And the laurel crown of the victor may never your temples press;
  If only you have God's approval, 'twill not matter what else you miss,
  His blessing is Heaven beginning, His reward will be perfect bliss.

  Be faithful in every service, obedient to every call;
  Ever ready to do His bidding, whether in great things or small;
  You may seem to accomplish little, you may win the praise of none;
  But be sure you will win His favor, and the Master's great "Well Done."

  And when at His blessed coming, you stand at His judgment seat;
  He'll remember your faithful service and His smile will be Oh! so sweet!
  He will bid you a loving welcome, He'll make you to reign for aye,
  Over great things and o'er many, with Him, through eternal day.

"THE CHANGED CROSS."

    It was a time of sadness, and my heart,
    Although it knew and loved the better part,
    Felt wearied with the conflict and the strife,
    And all the needful discipline of life.

    And while I thought on these as given to me,
    My trial tests of faith and love to be,
    It seemed as if I never could be sure
    That faithful to the end I should endure.

    And thus, no longer trusting to His might,
    Who says, "We walk by faith and not by sight";
    Doubting and almost yielding to despair,
    The thought arose--My cross I cannot bear.

    Far heavier its weight must surely be
    Than those of others which I daily see;
    Oh! if I might another burden choose,
    Methinks I should not fear my crown to lose.

    A solemn silence reigned on all around,
    E'en nature's voices uttered not a sound;
    The evening shadows seemed of peace to tell,
    And sleep upon my weary spirit fell.

    A moment's pause and then a heavenly light
    Beamed full upon my wondering, raptured sight;
    Angels on silvery wings seemed everywhere,
    And angels' music filled the balmy air.

    Then One more fair than all the rest to see--
    One to whom all the others bowed the knee--
    Came gently to me as I trembling lay,
    And, "Follow Me!" He said, "I am the Way."

    Then speaking thus, He led me far above,
    And there, beneath a canopy of love,
    Crosses of divers shapes and sizes were seen,
    Larger and smaller than my own had been.

    And one there was, most beauteous to behold,
    A little one, with jewels set in gold;
    Ah! this methought, I can with comfort wear,
    For it will be an easy one to bear.

    And so, the little cross I quickly took,
    But all at once, my frame beneath it shook;
    The sparkling jewels fair were they to see,
    But far too heavy was their weight for me.

    "This may not be," I cried, and looked again
    To see if there was any here could ease my pain;
    But one by one I passed them slowly by,
    Till on a lovely one I cast my eye.

    Fair flowers around its sculptured form entwined,
    And grace and beauty seemed in it combined;
    Wondering, I gazed and still I wondered more,
    To think so many should have passed it o'er.

    But Oh! that form so beautiful to see,
    Soon made its hidden sorrows known to me;
    Thorns lay beneath those flowers and colors fair;
    Sorrowing, I said. "This cross I may not bear."

    And so it was with each and all around,
    Not one to suit my need could there be found;
    Weeping, I laid each heavy burden down,
    As my guide gently said: "No cross, no crown."

    At length to him I raised my saddened heart,
    He knew its sorrows, bid its doubts depart;
    "Be not afraid," He said, "but trust in Me,
    My perfect love shall now be shown to thee."

    And then with lightened eyes and willing feet,
    Again I turned my earthly cross to meet;
    With forward footsteps, turning not aside
    For fear some hidden evil might betide.

    And there, in the prepared, appointed way,
    Listening to hear, and ready to obey,
    A cross I quickly found of plainest form,
    With only words of love inscribed thereon.

    With thankfulness, I raised it from the rest,
    And joyfully acknowledged it the best;
    The only one of all the many there
    That I could feel was good for me to bear.

    And while I thus my chosen one confessed,
    I saw a heavenly brightness on it rest;
    And as I bent my burden to sustain,
    I recognized my own old cross again.

    But, oh! how different did it seem to be!
    Now I had learned its preciousness to see;
    No longer could I unbelievingly say:
    "Perhaps another is a better way."

    Oh, no! henceforth my own desire shall be
    That He who knows me best should choose for me,
    And so whate'er His love sees good to send,
    I'll trust its best, because He knows the end.

    And when that happy time shall come
    Of endless peace and rest,
    We shall look back upon our path
    And say: "It was the best."

Late in September Jake and Sibylla drove to the Allentown Fair. It was "Big Thursday" of Fair
week. They started quite early, long before Ralph Jackson, who had come from the city the day
previous, to take Mary to the Fair, had arisen.

Mary, while appreciating Sibylla's good qualities, never failed to be amused at her broad "Pennsylvania
German" dialect.

The morning of the "Fair," Mary arose earlier than usual to allow Sibylla and Jake to get an
early start, as it was quite a distance from the farm to the Fair grounds. As they were about
to drive away, Sibylla, alighting from the carriage, said, "I forgot my 'Schnupftuch.'" Returning
with it in her hand, she called, as she climbed into Jake's buggy, "Gut-by, Mary, it looks
fer rain."

"Yes" said Jake, "I think it gives rain before we get back yet. The cornfodder in the barn
this morning was damp like it had water on it."

And said Mary, "The fragrance of the flowers was particularly noticeable early this morning."
Jake, as it happened, was no false prophet. It did rain before evening.

Later in the day, Mary and Ralph drove to a near-by town, leaving horse and carriage at the
hotel until their return in the evening, and boarded a train for Allentown. On arriving there,
they decided to walk up Hamilton Street, and later take a car out to the Fair grounds. As they
sauntered slowly up the main street, Mary noticed a small church built between two large department
stores and stopped to read a tablet on the church, which informed the passerby that "this is
to commemorate the concealment of the Liberty Bell during the Revolutionary War. This tablet
was erected by the Liberty Bell Chapter of the Daughters of the Revolution."

The First Zion's Reformed Church was founded in 1762. In front of the Church a rough block
of granite, erected to the memory of John Jacob Mickley, contained the following inscription:
"In commemoration of the saving of the Liberty Bell from the British in 1777. Under cover of
darkness and with his farm team, he, John Mickley, hauled the Liberty Bell from Independence
Hall, Philadelphia, through the British lines, to Bethlehem, where the wagon broke down. The
Bell was transferred to another wagon, brought to Allentown, placed beneath the floor of the
Second Church building of Zion's Reformed Church, where it remained secreted nearly a year.
This tablet was placed by the order of the Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, June
2nd, 1907, under the auspices of the Pennsylvania Daughters of the Revolution."

This was all very interesting to a girl who had been born and reared in Philadelphia; one who
in earliest childhood had been taught to love and venerate the "old Bell."

Ralph was quite as interested in reading about the old Bell as was Mary, and said; "Did you
know that the City of Philadelphia purchased the State House property, which included the Bell,
in 1818, in consideration of the sum of seventy thousand dollars? No building is ever to be
erected on the ground inside the wall on the south side of the State House, but it is to remain
a public green and walk forever?"

"No," replied Mary, "I did not know that. I don't think we will see anything of greater interest
than this at the Fair."

"I understand," said Ralph, "this is the third church building built on this site, where the
original church stood in which the Bell was secreted."

Mary, possessing a fair share of the curiosity usually attributed to the "female of the species,"
on noticing the church door standing ajar, asked Ralph to step inside with her, thinking to
find the caretaker within; but no one was visible. A deep silence reigned in the cool, dim
interior of the House of God.

One could almost feel the silence, 'twas so impressive. Slowly they walked up the wide church
aisle and stood before the quaint baptismal font. A stray sunbeam glancing through one of the
beautiful, variously-colored memorial windows, lighted up the pictured saint-like faces over
the chancel, making them appear as if imbued with life. Mary softly whispered to Ralph, as
if loath to profane the sacredness of the place by loud talking, "I seem to hear a voice saying,
'The Lord is in His holy temple.'" Quietly retracing their steps, they, without meeting any
one, emerged into the bright sunlight and were soon in the midst of the turmoil and traffic
incident to the principal business street of a city.

The young folks boarded a trolley and in a short time reached the Fair grounds, which offered
many attractions to Ralph as well as Mary. The latter was interested in the fine display of
needlework, fruits, flowers and vegetables of unusual size. Aunt Sarah's bread won a prize.
A blue ribbon attached to Frau Schmidt's highly-prized, old-fashioned, patchwork quilt, showed
it to be a winner. Ralph, being interested in the pens of fancy chickens, prize cattle, etc.,
Mary reluctantly left the woman's department of fancy work, and other interesting things, and
accompanied him. On their way to the outlying cattle sheds they noticed two lovers sitting
on a bench. Upon a second glance they were convinced that it was Jake and Sibylla. Jake, beaming
with happiness, said, "Sibylla vos side by me yet?" They were busily engaged eating a lunch
consisting of rolls with hot "weiners" between the two halves, or, as Jake called them, "Doggies,"
munching pretzels and peanuts between sips of strong coffee, both supremely happy. A yearly
visit to the Allentown Fair on "Big Thursday," was the event in their dull, prosaic lives.

CHAPTER XXX.

FRITZ SCHMIDT EXPLORES DURHAM CAVE.

It appeared to be nothing new for Fritz Schmidt to get into trouble; rather the contrary. One
day in early Fall, after the first frost, he, in company with a number of boys, drove to Durham,
not many miles distant from his home, in search of persimmons, the crop of which, on account
of the severity of the preceding winter, old farmers had predicted would be exceedingly heavy.

Fritz did not tell the boys of his intention to explore a cave which he had been told was in
the neighborhood, thinking it would be a good joke to explore the cave first, then tell the
boys later of his adventure.

The old gentleman from whom Fritz gained his information relative to the cave aroused the boy's
curiosity by saying, "Very many years ago, a skeleton was found in Durham cave and one of the
bones, on examination, proved to be the thigh bone of a human being. How he came there, or
the manner of his death, was never known." A large room in the cave is known as "Queen Esther's
Drawing Room," where, tradition has it "Queen Esther," or Catharine Montour, which was her
rightful name, at one time inhabited this cave with some of her Indian followers.

Fritz accidentally stumbled upon the mouth of the cave. None of the other boys being in sight,
Fritz quickly descended into the cave, which was dark as night. By lighting a second match
as quickly as one was burned, he explored quite a distance, when, accidentally dropping his
box of matches, the burning match in his hand, at the same moment, flickered faintly, then
went out, leaving Fritz in darkness. Imagine the feelings of the boy, as he groped unsuccessfully
on the floor of the cavern for the lost match box. Finally, he gave up in despair. Fritz was
not a cowardly boy, but while searching for the matches, he, without thinking, had turned around
several times, lost his bearings and knew not in which direction to go to reach the opening
of the cave. He heard strange noises which he imagined were bats flopping their wings. There
appeared to be something uncanny about the place, and Fritz devoutly wished himself out in
the sunshine, when a quotation he had frequently heard his father use came into his mind: "More
things are wrought by prayer than this world dreams of." So Fritz knelt down and prayed as
he had been taught to pray at his mother's knee, but more earnestly than he had ever prayed
before in his life, that God would help him find his way out of the cave, believing that his
prayer would be answered. And who shall say it was not answered? For, stumbling onward in the
darkness, not knowing if he were coming toward the cave's entrance or going in the opposite
direction, he eventually hailed with joy a faint streak of light which he followed, and it
soon brought him to the mouth of the cave. He was surprised on joining his companions to find
they had not been alarmed at his absence. He had been in the cave only thirty minutes, but
to him it had seemed hours. Fritz says to this day he has a horror of Durham Cave or "The Devil's
Hole," as it was formerly called.

CHAPTER XXXI.

MARY'S MARRIAGE.

His vacation ended, after a busy season at the farm, Ralph Jackson returned to his work in
the city, strong and robust. He had acquired the coat of tan which Mary's Uncle had predicted.
Physically strong as the "Cave Man" of old, he felt capable of moving mountains, and as was
natural, he being only a human man, longed for the mate he felt God had intended should one
day be his, as men have done since our first gardener, Adam, and will continue to do until
the end of time.

When visiting the farm, an event which occurred about every two weeks, Ralph constantly importuned
Mary to name an early day for their marriage.

Mary, with a young girl's impulsiveness, had given her heart unreservedly into the keeping
of Ralph Jackson, her first sweetheart. Mary was not naturally cold or unresponsive, neither
was she lacking in passion. She had had a healthy girlhood, and a wholesome home life. She
had been taught the conventional ideals of the marriage relations that have kept the race strong
throughout the centuries. Mary possessed great strength of character and fine moral courage.
Frequently, not wishing to show her real feeling for the young man; too well poised to be carried
off into the wrong channel, defended and excused by many over-sentimental and light-headed
novelists of the day, she sometimes appeared almost indifferent to the impetuous youth with
warm, red blood leaping in his veins, who desired so ardently to possess her.

Mary's Aunt had taught her the sanctity of parenthood, also that women are not always the weaker
sex. There are times when they must show their superiority to "mere man" in being the stronger
of the two, mentally if not physically, and Ralph Jackson knew when he called Mary "wife" she
would endow him with all the wealth of her pure womanhood, sacredly kept for the clean-souled
young man, whose devotion she finally rewarded by promising to marry him the second week in
October.

Sibylla Linsabigler, a good but ignorant girl, accustomed to hearing her elder brothers speak
slightingly regarding the sanctity of love and marriage, was greatly attached to Mary, whom
she admired exceedingly, and looked up to almost as a superior being. She unconsciously imitated
many of Mary's ways and mannerisms, and sought to adopt her higher ideals of life and standard
of morals.

One Sunday, as Jake Crouthamel was spending the evening with Sibylla, as was his usual custom,
he attempted some slight familiarity, which annoyed Sibylla greatly. Jake, noticing the young
girl's displeasure at his action, remarked, "I think me Sibylla, you are stuck up yet" (a grave
fault in the Bucks County farm hand's opinion).

"No, Chake," Sibylla replied, "I ain't, but Mary, she say a man gives a girl more respect what
keeps herself to herself before she is married, and I lofe you Chake and want that you respect
me if we marry."

Fritz and Elizabeth Schmidt, on hearing the news of Mary's approaching marriage, promptly begged
the privilege of decorating the old farm house parlor for the expected ceremony. They scoured
the surrounding woods and countryside for decorations; along old stone fences and among shrubbery
by the roadside they gathered large branches of Bitter Sweet. Its racemes of orange-colored
fruit, which later in the season becomes beautiful, when the orange gives place to a brilliant
red, the outer covering of the berry turns back upon the stems, forming one of the prettiest
pictures imaginable in late Autumn. They also gathered branches of feathery wild clematis,
which, after the petals had fallen, resembled nothing so much as a cluster of apple seeds,
each seed tipped with what appeared like a tiny osprey feather. From the woods near the farm
they gathered quantities of trailing ground pine and rainbow-tinted leaves from the numerous
brilliant scarlet and yellow maples, which appeared brighter in contrast to the sober-hued
trees of shellbark, oak and chestnut.

The wedding gifts sent to Mary were odd, useful and numerous. The Campfire Girls, to whom she
became endeared, gave her a "Kitchen Shower," consisting of a clothes basket (woven by an old
basketmaker from the willows growing not far distant), filled to overflowing with everything
imaginable that could possibly be useful to a young housekeeper, from the half dozen neatly-hemmed
linen, blue ribbon tied, dish clothes, to really handsome embroidered articles from the girls
to whom she had given instructions in embroidery during the past summer.

Sibylla's wedding present to Mary was the work of her own strong, willing hands, and was as
odd and original as useful. 'Twas a "door mat" made from corn husks, braided into a rope, then
sewed round and round and formed into an oval mat. Mary laughingly told Sibylla she thought
when 'twas placed on her kitchen doorstep she'd ask every one to please step over it, as it
was too pretty to be trod on, which greatly pleased the young girl, who had spent many hours
of loving thought and labor on the simple, inexpensive gift.

Mary received from Professor Schmidt a small but excellent copy of one of the world's most
famous pictures, "The Night Watch," painted by Rembrandt, in 1642.

"My dear," said the old Professor, "I saw what was said to be the original of this painting,
the property of Queen Wilhelmina of Holland, at the St. Louis Exposition in 1904. It was in
a small, separate building. The size of the picture was fifteen feet by twenty feet. It is
the largest and best known of Rembrandt's works. It acquired the wrong title of 'Night Watch'
in a period when, owing to the numerous coats of varnish and the effect of smoke and dust,
it had gotten so dark in appearance that only the most lucid parts could be discerned. Nowadays,
nobody doubts that the light falling from the left on the boisterous company is that of the
sun. The musketeers are remarching out of the high archway of their hall, crossing the street
in front of it, and going up a bridge. The architecture of the building is a product of Rembrandt's
imagination. The steps, also, which we see the men descending, were put there simply to make
those at the back show out above those in the front ranks. The march out was to be above all
a portrait group. Sixteen persons had each paid their contributions, a hundred guilders on
the average, to have their likenesses transmitted to posterity, and every one of them was therefore
to be fully visible."

"It is certainly a wonderful picture," said Mary, "and while I have seen few pictures painted
by old masters, I think, even with my limited knowledge of art, I cannot fail to appreciate
this excellent copy, and I thank you heartily. Professor, and shall always be reminded of you
when I look at this copy of a great work."

Mary would not go empty-handed to Ralph at her marriage. Her "hope chest" in the attic was
full to overflowing, and quite unique in itself, as it consisted of an old, in fact ancient,
wooden dough-tray used in times past by Aunt Sarah's grandmother. Beside it stood a sewing
table, consisting of three discarded broom handles supporting a cheese-box cover, with wooden
cheese-box underneath for holding Mary's sewing; stained brown and cretonne lined. Mary valued
it as the result of the combined labor of herself and Ralph Jackson. A roll of new, home-made
rag carpet, patchwork quilts and "New Colonial" rugs, jars of fruit, dried sweet corn, home-made
soap, crocks of apple butter, jellies, jams and canned vegetables all bore evidence of Mary's
busy Summer at the farm.

The day of Mary's marriage, the twelfth of October, dawned clear and bright, sunshine warm
as a day in June. In the centre of the gayly-decorated old farm house parlor, wearing a simple,
little, inexpensive dress of soft, creamy muslin, we find Mary standing beside Ralph, who is
looking supremely satisfied and happy, although a trifle pale and nervous, listening to the
solemn words of the minister. Ralph's "I will" sounded clearly and distinctly through the long
room. Mary, with a sweet, serious, faraway look in her blue eyes, repeated slowly after the
minister, "I promise to love, honor and"--then a long pause. She glanced shyly up at the young
man by her side as if to make sure he was worth it, then in a low, clear tone, added, "obey."

Ralph Jackson certainly deserved the appellation "Cave Man" given him by Fritz Schmidt. He
was considerably more than six feet in height, with broad, square shoulders, good features,
a clear brain and a sound body. He had never used intoxicants of any description. He sometimes
appeared quite boyish in his ways, for on account of his matured look and great size he was
frequently judged to be older than he really was.

Aunt Sarah had provided a bounteous repast for the few friends assembled, and while looking
after the comfort of her guests tears dimmed the kindly, gray eyes at the thought of parting
from Mary.

Small Polly Schmidt, as flower girl at the wedding, was so excited she scarcely knew if she
should laugh or cry, and finally compromised by giving Mary what she called a "bear hug," much
to Mary's amusement. Fritz gravely said: "Allow me to congratulate you, Mr. Jackson," and turning
to Mary, "I wish you a beautiful and happy life, Mrs. Jackson." Mary blushed becomingly on
hearing her new name for the first time.

Bidding farewell to friends, Mary and Ralph, accompanied by her Uncle, were driven by "Chake"
to the depot in a near-by town, where they boarded the train for the little, newly-furnished
home in the suburbs of Philadelphia, the deed of which was Mary's wedding gift from her Uncle,
in appreciation of her faithful service on the farm during the summer and for the brightness
she had brought into his life and the lives of those with whom she had come in contact, as
every one at the farm had felt the captivating charm and winning sweetness of the young girl.

As the train came in sight, the old gentleman, in a voice husky with emotion, bade the young
couple, just starting the journey of life together, an affectionate farewell, and repeated
solemnly, almost as a benediction, "Es Salamu Aleikum."

MARY'S COLLECTION OF RECIPES

SMALL ECONOMIES, "LEFT-OVERS" OR "IVERICH BLEIBST" AS AUNT SARAH CALLED THEM.

"The young housewife," said Aunt Sarah to Mary, in a little talk on small economies in the
household, "should never throw away pieces of hard cheese. Grate them and keep in a cool, dry
place until wanted, then spread lightly over the top of a dish of macaroni, before baking;
or sprinkle over small pieces of dough remaining after baking pies, roll thin, cut in narrow
strips like straws, and bake light brown in a hot oven, as 'Cheese Straws.'"

Wash and dry celery tips in oven, and when not wished for soup they may be used later for seasoning.
The undesirable outer leaves of a head of lettuce, if fresh and green, may be used if cut fine
with scissors, and a German salad dressing added. The heart of lettuce should, after washing
carefully, be placed in a piece of damp cheese cloth and put on ice until wanted, then served
at table "au natural," with olive oil and vinegar or mayonnaise dressing to suit individual
taste. Should you have a large quantity of celery, trim and carefully wash the roots, cut them
fine and add to soup as flavoring. Almost all vegetables may be, when well cooked, finely mashed,
strained, and when added to stock, form a nourishing soup by the addition of previously-cooked
rice or barley. Add small pieces of meat, well-washed bones cut from steaks or roasts, to the
stock pot. Small pieces of ham or bacon (left-overs), also bacon or ham gravy not thickened
with flour may be used occasionally, when making German salad dressing for dandelion, endive,
lettuce or water cress, instead of frying fresh pieces of bacon.

It is a great convenience, also economical, to keep a good salad dressing on hand, and when
the white of an egg is used, the yolk remaining may he added at once to the salad dressing
(previously prepared). Mix thoroughly, cook a minute and stand away in a cool place. Young
housekeepers will be surprised at the many vegetables, frequently left-overs, from which appetizing
salads may be made by the addition of a couple tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise, besides nut meats,
lettuce, watercress, celery and fruit, all of which may be used to advantage. A good potato
salad is one of the cheapest and most easily prepared salads. A German dressing for dandelions,
lettuce or potatoes may be prepared in a few minutes by adding a couple of tablespoonfuls of
salad dressing (which the forehanded housewife will always keep on hand) to a little hot ham
or bacon gravy. Stirring it while hot over the salad and serving at once.

A cup of mashed potatoes, left over from dinner, covered and set aside in a cool place, may
be used the next day, with either milk or potato water, to set a sponge for "Dutch Cake," or
cinnamon buns with equally good results as if they had been freshly boiled (if the potatoes
be heated luke-warm and mashed through a sieve); besides the various other ways in which cold
boiled potatoes may be used.

Fruit juices or a couple tablespoonfuls of tart jelly or preserved fruit may be added to mincemeat
with advantage. Housewives should make an effort to give their family good, plain, nourishing,
wholesome food. The health of the family depends so largely on the quality of food consumed.
When not having time, strength or inclination to bake cake, pies or puddings, have instead
good, sweet, home-made bread and fruit; if nothing else, serve stewed fruit or apple sauce.
Omit meat occasionally from the bill of fare and serve instead a dish of macaroni and cheese
and fruit instead of other dessert. Serve a large, rich, creamy rice pudding for the children's
lunch. When eggs are cheap and plentiful make simple custards, old-fashioned cornmeal puddings,
tapioca, bread puddings and gelatine with fruits. These are all good, wholesome, and not expensive,
and in Summer may be prepared in the cool of the early morning with small outlay of time, labor
or money. Plan your housework well the day before and have everything in readiness. The pudding
may be placed in the oven and baked white preparing breakfast, economizing coal and the time
required for other household duties.

Every wife and mother who does her own housework and cooking these days (and their number is
legion) knows the satisfaction one experiences, especially in hot weather, in having dinner
and luncheon planned and partly prepared early in the morning before leaving the kitchen to
perform other household tasks.

Another small economy of Aunt Sarah's was the utilizing of cold mashed potatoes in an appetizing
manner. The mashed potatoes remaining from a former meal were put through a small fruit press
or ricer to make them light and flaky. To one heaped cup of mashed potatoes (measured before
pressing them through fruit press) she added 3/4 cup of soft, stale bread crumbs, 1/4 cup of
flour sifted with 1/4 teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix in lightly with a fork yolk of one
egg, then the stiffly beaten white, seasoned with salt and a little minced onion or parsley,
or both. With well-floured hands she molded the mixture into balls the size of a shelled walnut,
dropped into rapidly boiling water and cooked them uncovered from 15 to 20 minutes, then skimmed
them from the water and browned in a pan with a little butter and served on platter with meat,
a pot roast or beef preferred. From the above quantity of potatoes was made five potato balls.

THE MANY USES OF STALE BREAD

Never waste stale bread, as it may be used to advantage in many ways. The young housewife will
be surprised at the many good, wholesome and appetizing dishes which may be made from stale
bread, with the addition of eggs and milk.

Take a half dozen slices of stale bread of equal size and place in a hot oven a few minutes
to become crisped on the outside so they may be quickly toasted over a hot fire, a delicate
brown. Butter them and for breakfast serve with a poached egg on each slice.

A plate of hot, crisp, nicely-browned and buttered toast is always a welcome addition to the
breakfast table.

Serve creamed asparagus tips on slices of toast for luncheon.

The economical housewife carefully inspects the contents of her bread box and refrigerator
every morning before planning her meals for the day, and is particular to use scraps of bread
and left-over meat and vegetables as quickly as possible. Especially is this necessary in hot
weather. Never use any food unless perfectly sweet and fresh. If otherwise, it is unfit for use.

Loaves of bread which have become stale can be freshened if wrapped in a damp cloth for a few
minutes, then remove and place in a hot oven until heated through.

For a change, toast slices of stale bread quite crisp and serve a plate of hot, plain toast
at table, to be eaten broken in small pieces in individual bowls of cold milk. Still another
way is to put the stiffly-beaten white of an egg on the centre of a hot, buttered slice of
toast, carefully drop the yolk in the centre of the beaten white and place in hot oven a few
minutes to cook. Serve with a bit of butter on top, season with pepper and salt. Serve at once.

Another way to use stale bread is to toast slices of bread, spread with butter, pour over 1
cup of hot milk, in which has been beaten 1 egg and a pinch of salt. Serve in a deep dish.
Or a cup of hot milk may be poured over crisply-toasted slices of buttered bread, without the
addition of an egg.

"BROD GRUMMELLA"

In a bowl containing 1 cup of soft bread crumbs pour 1 cup of sweet milk, then add the slightly-beaten
yolks of three eggs, a little pepper and salt, then the stiffly-beaten whites of the three
eggs. Place in a fry-pan a tablespoonful of butter and 1 of lard or drippings; when quite hot
pour the omelette carefully in the pan. When it begins to "set" loosen around the edges and
from the bottom with a knife. When cooked turn one side over on the other half, loosen entirely
from the pan, then slide carefully on a hot platter and serve at once. Garnish with parsley.

CROUTONS AND CRUMBS

Still another way is to make croutons. Cut stale bread into small pieces, size of dice, brown
in hot oven and serve with soup instead of serving crackers. Small pieces of bread that cannot
be used otherwise should be spread over a large pan, placed in a moderate oven and dried until
crisp. They may then be easily rolled fine with a rolling-pin or run through the food chopper
and then sifted, put in a jar, stood in a dry place until wanted, but not in an air-tight jar.
Tie a piece of cheese-cloth over the top of jar. These crumbs may be used for crumbing eggplant,
oysters, veal cutlets or croquettes. All should be dipped in beaten white of eggs and then
in the crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper, then floated in a pan of hot fat composed of
2/3 lard and 1/3 suet. All except veal cutlets. They should be crumbed, not floated in deep
fat, but fried slowly in a couple tablespoonfuls of butter and lard.

Also fry fish in a pan of hot fat. Shad is particularly fine, prepared in this manner (when
not baked). Cut in small pieces, which when breaded are floated in hot fat. If the fat is the
right temperature when the fish is put in, it absorbs less fat than when fried in a small quantity
of lard and butter.

"ZWEIBACH"

Cut wheat bread in slices not too thin. Place in a warm, not hot, oven, and allow it to remain
until thoroughly dry and crisp. Place in a toaster or a wire broiler over a hot fire and toast
a golden brown and allow it to remain in the oven until toasted. Keep in cool place until used.
Zweibach is considered more wholesome than fresh bread.

"GERMAN" EGG BREAD

Cut stale bread into slices about 3/4 inch thick. Cut slices in half, and soak for a few minutes,
turning frequently, in the following mixtures: 1 pint of sweet milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful
flour mixed smooth with a little of the cold milk and a pinch of salt. Fry half dozen slices
of thinly-sliced bacon in a pan. Put bacon, when fried, in oven to keep hot. Dip the slices
of soaked bread in fine, dried bread crumbs and fry quickly in the bacon fat (to which has
been added one tablespoon of butter) to a golden brown. Serve at once on the same platter with
the bacon, or instead of using bacon fat, fry the crumbed bread in sweet drippings, or a tablespoonful
each of lard and butter. This is an appetizing and wholesome breakfast or luncheon dish, served
with a tart jelly, either currant or grape.

CREAMED TOAST

Partly fill a large tureen with slices of crisply-browned and buttered toast. (Slices of bread
which have become dry and hard may be used for this dish.) When ready to serve, not before,
pour over the toasted slices 1 quart of hot milk to which 1 teaspoonful of flour or cornstarch
has been added, after being mixed smoothly with a little cold milk or water and cooked a few
minutes until thick as cream. Add also a pinch of salt.

If milk is not plentiful, prepare one pint of milk and dip each slice of toasted bread quickly
in a bowl of hot water; place in a deep dish and quickly pour over the hot milk, to which a
tablespoonful of butter has been added, and serve at once.

BREAD AND ROLLS

Bread, called the "Staff of Life," on account of its nutritive value, should head the list
of foods for human consumption. Bread making should stand first in the "Science of Cooking,"
as there is no one food upon which the comfort, health and well-being of the average family
so largely depends as upon good bread. There is absolutely no reason why the housewife of the
present day should not have good, sweet, wholesome, home-made bread, if good yeast, good flour
and common-sense are used. The milk or water used to mix with flour for making bread sponge
should be lukewarm. If too hot, the loaves will be full of holes and coarse grained. If too
cold the bread, chilled, will not rise as it should have done had the liquid used been the
right temperature. Good bread may be made by using milk, potato water or whey (drained from
thick sour milk), and good bread may be made by simply using lukewarm water. I prefer a mixture
of milk and water to set sponge. Milk makes a fine-grained, white bread, but it soon dries
out and becomes stale. Bread rises more slowly when milk is used. When mashed potatoes are
used, the bread keeps moist a longer time. Should you wish extra fine, white, delicate bread,
add one cup of sweet cream to the liquid when setting sponge. When milk is used the dough is
slower in rising, but makes a creamy-looking and fine-flavored bread. When one Fleischman yeast
cake is used in any recipe the ordinary half-ounce cake of compressed yeast is intended, twenty-eight
cakes in a pound. These are usually kept in a large refrigerator in a temperature of 44 degrees
and should not be kept longer in the home than three days in Summer or six days in Winter,
and should always be kept in a cool place until used, if the cook would have success when using.

Use the best hard, Spring wheat flour obtainable for baking bread, or any sponge raised with
yeast, as this flour contains a greater quantity of gluten and makes bread of high nutritive value.

Winter wheat maybe used for cake-making and for baking pastry with excellent results, although
costing less than Spring wheat.

Always sift flour before using, when setting sponge for bread. When mixing sponge use one quart
liquid to about three pounds of flour. "Aunt Sarah" always cut several gashes with a sharp
knife on top of loaves when ready to be placed in oven. She also made several cuts across the
top of loaves with a hot knife when set to rise to allow gas to escape. If an impression made
on a loaf of bread with the finger remains, the bread is light. If the dent disappears, then
the loaf is not light enough to be placed in the oven; give it more time to rise. An experienced
cook, noted for the excellence and size of her loaves of bread, said she always inverted a
pail over the pan containing loaves of bread when set to rise, and allowed the bread to remain
covered after being placed in the oven. Loaves will rise to a greater height if this is done.
Remove the covering to allow loaves to brown a short time before taking them from the oven.
"Aunt Sarah" frequently placed four loaves in her large roasting pan, covered the pan, when
set to rise, and allowed the cover to remain until loaves were nearly baked. She brushed the
top and sides of loaves with melted butter when set to rise to allow of their being broken
apart easily. A more crusty loaf is secured by placing each loaf singly in medium-sized bread tins.

Aunt Sarah considered Fleischman's compressed yeast the best commercial yeast in use, both
quick and reliable, but thought better bread was never made than that made by her mother, as
she had been taught to make it in years past, by the old-fashioned and slower "sponge method."
She was invariably successful in making sweet, wholesome bread in that manner. She used home-made
potato yeast or "cornmeal yeast cakes," under different names, always with good results.

Good bread may be made either by the old-fashioned "sponge" method or "straight." Sponge method
consists of a batter mixed from liquid yeast (usually home-made potato yeast is used) and a
small part of the flour required for making the bread. This batter was usually set to rise
at night and mixed up in the centre of a quantity of flour, in an old-fashioned wooden dough
tray. The following morning enough flour was kneaded in to form a dough, and when well-raised
and light, this dough was formed into loaves and placed in pans for the final rising. The more
easily and more quickly made "straight" dough, when using Fleischman's compressed yeast, is
mixed in the morning and all the ingredients necessary are added at one time. It is then set
to rise and, when the dough has doubled in bulk, it is kneaded down and when risen to once
and half its size, shaped into loaves, placed in pans to rise and, when risen to top of pans, bake.

Better bread may be made from flour not freshly milled. Flour should be kept in a dry place;
it improves with moderate age. Stand flour in a warm place to dry out several hours before
using if you would have good bread.

When baking bread the heat of the oven should not be too great at first, or the outside of
the bread will harden too quickly and inside the loaves will not be thoroughly baked before
the crust is thick and dark. The temperature of the oven and time required for baking depend
upon the size of the loaves, yet the bread should be placed in rather a quick oven, one in
which the loaves should brown in about fifteen minutes, when the heat may be reduced, finishing
the baking more slowly.

Small biscuits and rolls can stand a much hotter oven and quicker baking than large loaves,
which must be heated slowly, and baked a longer time. A one-pound loaf should bake about one
hour. On being taken from the oven, bread should be placed on a sieve, so that the air can
circulate about it until it is thoroughly cooled. In the Farmers' Bulletin, we read: "The lightness
and sweetness depend as much on the way bread is made as on the materials used." The greatest
care should be used in preparing and baking the dough and in cooking and keeping the finished
bread. Though good housekeepers agree that light, well-raised bread can readily be made, with
reasonable care and attention, heavy, badly-raised bread is unfortunately very common. Such
bread is not palatable and is generally considered to be unwholesome, and probably more indigestion
has been caused by it than by any other badly-cooked food. As compared with most meats and
vegetables, bread has practically no waste and is very completely digested, but it is usually
too poor in proteins to be fittingly used as the sole article of diet, but when eaten with
due quantities of other food, it is invaluable and well deserves its title of "Staff of Life."

When the housewife "sets" bread sponge to rise over night, she should mix the sponge or dough
quite late, and early in the morning mold it at once into shapely-looking loaves (should the
sponge have had the necessary amount of flour added the night before for making a stiff dough).

Being aware of the great nutritive value of raisins and dried currants, Aunt Sarah frequently
added a cup of either one or the other, well-floured, to the dough when shaping into loaves
for the final rising.

Aunt Sarah frequently used a mixture of butter and lard when baking on account of its being
more economical, and for the reason that a lesser quantity of lard may be used; the shortening
qualities being greater than that of butter. The taste of lard was never detected in her bread
or cakes, they being noted for their excellence, as the lard she used was home-rendered, almost
as sweet as dairy butter, free from taste or odor of pork. She always beat lard to a cream
when using it for baking cakes, and salted it well before using, and I do not think the small
quantity used could be objected to on hygienic principles.

I have read "bread baking" is done once every three or four weeks, no oftener, in some of the
farm houses of Central Europe, and yet stale bread is there unknown. Their method of keeping
bread fresh is to sprinkle flour into a large sack and into this pack the loaves, taking care
to have the top crusts of bread touch each other. If they have to lie bottom to bottom, sprinkle
flour between them. Swing the sack in a dry place. It must swing and there must be plenty of
flour between the loaves. It sounds more odd than reasonable, I confess.

"BUCKS COUNTY" HEARTH-BAKED RYE BREAD (AS MADE BY AUNT SARAH)

1 quart sweet milk (scalded and cooled). 1 tablespoonful lard or butter. 2 table spoonsful
sugar. 1/2 tablespoonful salt. 1 cup wheat flour. 3 quarts rye flour (this includes the one
cup of wheat flour). 1 Fleischman yeast cake or 1 cup of potato yeast.

Pour 1 quart of luke-warm milk in a bowl holding 7 quarts. Add butter, sugar and salt, 1-1/2
quarts rye flour and 1 cup of yeast, or one Fleischman's yeast cake, dissolved in a little
lukewarm water. Beat thoroughly, cover with cloth, and set in a warm place to rise about three
hours, or until it almost reaches the top of bowl. When light, stir in the remaining 1-1/2
quarts of rye flour, in which one cup of wheat is included; turn out on a well-floured bake
board and knead about twenty minutes. Shape dough into one high, round loaf, sprinkle flour
liberally over top and sides of loaf, and place carefully into the clean bowl on top of a well-floured
cloth. Cover and set to rise about one hour, when it should be light and risen to top of bowl.
Turn the bowl containing the loaf carefully upside down on the centre of a hot sheet iron taken
from the hot oven and placed on top of range. A tablespoonful of flour should have been sifted
over the sheet iron before turning the loaf out on it. Remove cloth from dough carefully after
it has been turned from bowl and place the sheet iron containing loaf immediately in the hot
oven, as it will then rise at once and not spread. Bake at least sixty minutes. Bread is seldom
baked long enough to be wholesome, especially graham and rye bread. When baked and still hot,
brush the top of loaf with butter and wash the bottom of loaf well with a cloth wrung out of
cold water, to soften the lower, hard-baked crust. Wrap in a damp cloth and stand aside to
cool where the air will circulate around it. Always set rye bread to rise early in the morning
of the same day it is to be baked, as rye sponge sours more quickly than wheat sponge. The
bread baked from this recipe has the taste of bread which, in olden times, was baked in the
brick ovens of our grandmother's day, and that bread was unexcelled. I know of what I am speaking,
having watched my grandmother bake bread in an old-fashioned brick oven, and have eaten hearth-baked
rye bread, baked directly on the bottom of the oven, and know, if this recipe be closely followed,
the young housewife will have sweet, wholesome bread. Some Germans use Kumel or Caraway seed
in rye bread.

Aunt Sarah's loaves of rye bread, baked from the above recipe, were invariably 3-1/2 inches
high, 14-1/2 inches in diameter and 46 inches in circumference and always won a blue ribbon
at Country Fairs and Farmers' Picnics.

In the oven of Aunt Sarah's range was always to be found a piece of sheet iron 17 inches in
length by 16 inches in width. The three edges of the sheet iron turned down all around to a
depth of half an inch, the two opposite corners being cut off about a half inch, to allow of
its being turned down. It is a great convenience for young housewives to possess two of these
sheet-iron tins, or "baking sheets," when baking small cakes or cookies, as being raised slightly
from the bottom of the oven, cakes are less liable to scorch and bake more evenly. One sheet
may be filled while baking another sheetful of cakes. In this manner a large number of cakes
may be baked in a short time. This baking sheet was turned the opposite way, upside down, when
baking a loaf of rye bread on it, and when the loaf of bread was partly baked the extra baking
sheet was slipped under the bottom of the one containing the loaf, in case the oven was quite
hot, to prevent the bottom of the bread scorching. Wheat bread may be baked in the same manner
as rye bread, substituting wheat flour for rye. These baking sheets may be made by any tinsmith,
and young housewives, I know, would not part with them, once they realize how invaluable they
are for baking small cakes on them easily and quickly.

"FRAU SCHMIDTS" GOOD WHITE BREAD (SPONGE METHOD)

To one quart of potato water, drained from potatoes which were boiled for mid-day dinner, she
added about 1/2 cup of finely-mashed hot potatoes and stood aside. About four o'clock in the
afternoon she placed one pint of lukewarm potato water and mashed potatoes in a bowl with 1/4
cup of granulated sugar and 1/2 a dissolved Fleischman's yeast cake, beat all well together,
covered with a cloth and stood in a warm place until light and foamy. About nine o'clock in
the evening she added the reserved pint of (lukewarm) potato water and 1/2 tablespoonful of
salt to the yeast sponge, with enough warmed, well-dried flour to stiffen, and kneaded it until
dough was fine-grained. She also cut through the dough frequently with a sharp knife. When
the dough was elastic and would not adhere to molding-board or hands, she placed it in a bowl,
brushed melted lard or butter over top to prevent a crust forming, covered warmly with a cloth
and allowed it to stand until morning. Frau Schmidt always rose particularly early on bake
day, for fear the sponge might fall or become sour, if allowed to stand too long. She molded
the dough into four small loaves, placed it in pans to rise until it doubled its original bulk.
When light she baked it one hour. Bread made according to these directions was fine-grained,
sweet and wholesome. She always cut several gashes across top of loaf with a sharp knife when
loaves were set to rise, to allow gas to escape.

EXCELLENT "GRAHAM BREAD"

At 6.30 A.M. place in a quart measure 1/2 cup of sweet cream and 3-1/2 cups of milk, after
being scalded (1 quart all together). When lukewarm, add 1 Fleischman yeast cake, dissolved
in a little of the luke warm milk, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 tablespoonful salt. Add 3 cups
each of white bread flour and 3 cups of graham flour (in all 6 cups or 1-1/2 quarts of flour).
Mix well together and stand in a warm place, closely covered, a couple of hours, until well-risen.
Then stir sponge down and add about 2-1/2 cups each of graham and of white flour. (Sponge for
graham bread should not be quite as stiff as a sponge prepared from white flour.) Set to rise
again for an hour, or longer; when light, stir down sponge and turn on to a well-floured board.
Knead well, divide into four portions, mold into four small, shapely loaves, brush with soft
butter, place in well-greased pans, set to rise, and in about one hour they should be ready
to put in a moderately-hot oven. Bake about fifty minutes. Graham bread should be particularly
well-baked. Brush loaves, when baked, with butter, which makes a crisp crust with a nutty flavor.

Should cream not be available, one quart of scalded milk, containing one tablespoonful of butter,
may be used with good results. If cream be used with the milk, no shortening is required in
the bread. Bread is considered more wholesome when no shortening is used in its preparation.

GRAHAM BREAD (AN OLD RECIPE)

2 cups sour milk 2 cups sweet milk or water. 1 teaspoon soda (Salaratus) Graham flour. 1/2
cup molasses. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. Pinch of salt.

Stiffen about as thick as ordinary molasses cake. Bake at once.

"MARY'S" RECIPE FOR WHEAT BREAD

1 cup sweet milk (scalded).
1 cup cold water.
1 cake Fleischman's yeast
  (dissolved in a small quantity of luke-warm water).
1-1/2 teaspoonfuls sugar.
1 rounded teaspoonful salt.
1 tablespoonful butter.
Flour, about 1-1/2 quarts.

This makes good bread and, as bread is apt to chill if set over night in a cold kitchen, or
sour if allowed to stand over night in summer, set this sponge early in the morning. Stiffen
with flour and knead about 25 minutes; place the dough in a covered bowl in a warm place to
rise about two hours and when well-risen and light, knead and stand one hour. Then mold into
shapely loaves, place in pans, brush tops of loaves with melted butter, and when doubled in
bulk, in about 45 minutes put in an oven which is so hot you can hold your hand in only while
you count thirty, or if a little flour browns in the oven in about six minutes, it is hot enough
for bread. The oven should be hot enough to brown the bread slightly five minutes after being
put in. Medium-sized loaves of bread require from 3/4 of an hour to one hour to bake. When
bread is sufficiently baked it can be told by turning the loaf over and rapping with the knuckles
on the bottom of the loaf. If it sounds hollow, it is thoroughly baked, and should be taken
from the oven. Stand loaves up on end against some object, where the air can circulate around
them, and brush a little butter over the top to soften the crust. An authority on the chemistry
of foods cautious housewives against cooling loaves of bread too rapidly after taking from
the oven, and I should like to add a word of caution against eating fresh breads of any kind.
Bread should be baked at least twelve hours before being eaten. The sponge for this bread was
set at 6 o'clock in the morning; bread was baked at 10.30.

From 1 pint of liquid, 1 cake of yeast and about 1-1/2 quarts of flour were made two loaves
of bread. More yeast is required to raise a sponge containing sugar, eggs and shortening than
is required to raise bread sponge containing only liquid, flour and yeast.

"FRAU SCHMIDTS" EASILY-MADE GRAHAM BREAD

Should you care to have a couple of loaves of graham bread instead of all-wheat, take a generous
cup of the above sponge before it is stiffened beyond a thick batter, and add one tablespoonful
of brown sugar or molasses, stiffen with graham flour (not quite as stiff as when making wheat
bread), rub butter or lard on top of dough, cover and set in a warm place to rise. When light,
mold into one small loaf (never make graham bread into large loaves), place in oblong pan,
cover, let stand until light, about 1-1/2 hours, when it should have doubled in size; put in
oven and bake thoroughly. When the loaf is taken from the oven, brush butter over the top.
This keeps the crust moist.

If a wholesome loaf of "Corn Bread" is wished, use fine, yellow, granulated cornmeal to stiffen
the sponge instead of graham flour; do not make dough too stiff.

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD

1 pint boiling water. 1 pint sweet milk. 1/2 Fleischman's yeast cake dissolved in luke-warm
water. 1/2 tablespoon salt. Flour.

When the milk and water are lukewarm add the yeast cake and salt. Then add enough whole wheat
flour to make a thin batter. Let stand in a warm place three or four hours. Then stir in as
much wheat flour (whole wheat) as can be stirred in well with a large spoon, and pour into
well-greased pans. Let rise to double its bulk; then bake from three-fourths to one hour, according
to the size of the loaves. This quantity makes three loaves.

NUT BREAD

3 cups graham flour. 1 cup wheat flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 1 cup chopped English walnuts.
1 cup sugar. 1 small teaspoon "Mapleine" flavoring (if liked). 1/2 cup milk. Pinch salt. 1/2
cup floured raisins (seeded).

Put in a good-sized bread pan and bake on hour in a moderate oven. Strange as it may seem,
this bread is lighter and better if allowed to stand a half hour before being placed in the
oven to bake.

FRAU SCHMIDTS "QUICK BREAD"

The Professor's wife seldom used any liquid except water to set a sponge for bread. She seldom
used any shortening. She taught Mary to make bread by the following process, which she considered
superior to any other. From the directions given, housewives may think more time devoted to
the making of a couple of loaves of bread than necessary; also, that too great a quantity of
yeast was used; but the bread made by "Frau Schmidt" was excellent, quickly raised and baked.

The whole process consumed only about four hours' time, and how could time be more profitably
spent than in baking sweet, crusty loaves of bread, even in these strenuous days when the efficient
housekeeper plans to conserve strength, time and labor?

First, two Fleischman's compressed yeast cakes were placed in a bowl and dissolved with 4 tablespoonfuls
of luke-warm water; she then added 1 cup of lukewarm water, 1/2 tablespoonful of sugar and
1/2 teaspoonful of salt and stirred all well together. The bowl containing this yeast foam
was allowed to stand in a warm place, closely covered, one hour.

At the end of that time the yeast mixture should be light and foamy. It was then poured into
the centre of a bowl containing about 4-1/2 cups of warmed flour, mixing the foamy yeast with
a portion of the flour to make a soft sponge, leaving a wall of flour around the inside edge
of bowl, as our grandmothers used to do in olden times when they mixed a sponge for bread of
liquid flour and yeast, in one end of the old-fashioned wooden "dough tray," using a wooden
stick or small paddle for stirring together the mixture.

The bowl containing the sponge was placed in a warm place to rise. In about 15 or 20 minutes
1/2 cup of lukewarm water was added to the sponge, stirring in all the outside wall of flour
until a dough, the proper consistency for bread, was formed. The dough was turned out on the
molding board and given a couple of quick, deft turns with the hands for several minutes, then
placed in the bowl and again set to rise in a warm place, free from draughts, for 25 or 30
minutes. When light, with hands slightly greased with butter, she kneaded the dough a short
time, until smooth and elastic, divided the dough into two portions, placed each loaf in warmed,
well-greased bread pans and stood in a warm place about 1/4 hour. Then turned the contents
of bread pans onto bake-board, one at a time. Cut each loaf into three portions, rolled each
piece into long, narrow strips with the palms of the hands. Pinched ends of the three strips
together and braided or plaited them into a braid almost the length of bread pan. Placed each
braided loaf in a bread pan and set to raise as before. When well-raised, brush the top of
loaves with melted butter. Bake about three-quarters of an hour in a moderately-hot oven. An
old-fashioned way of testing the heat of the oven was to hold the hand in the oven while counting
thirty. Should one be unable to bear the heat of oven a longer time, then the temperature was
correct for baking bread. Should one be able to allow the hand to remain in the oven a longer
time, the heat of the oven should be increased.

As a result of carefully following these minute directions, even an inexperienced housewife
should have sweet, wholesome bread.

Frau Schmidt insisted that rolling portions of dough separately before combining in a loaf,
as for braided loaves, caused the bread to have a finer texture than if just shaped into round
loaves.

AN "OATMEAL LOAF"

For a loaf of oatmeal bread, place 1 cup of crushed oats, or common oatmeal, in a bowl, pour
over 1/2 cup of hot milk. When luke warm, add 1 cup of sponge, or batter, reserved from that
raised over night for making loaves of white bread; 1 teaspoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful sugar
and 1/2 teaspoonful salt, and about 2 scant cups of white flour. Knead a few minutes, set to
rise in a warm place, closely covered, about one hour or until doubled in bulk. Then knead
down and form into a shapely loaf, place in a pan, brush melted butter over lop (this improves
crust), and when raised, doubled in bulk (in about one hour), place in a moderately hot oven
and bake from 40 to 45 minutes. Raisins may be added to this loaf, if liked. Mary preferred
this oatmeal loaf to graham bread.

The sponge or batter from which this oatmeal-loaf was made had been prepared in the following
manner:

To 1-1/2 cups of luke-warm potato water was added 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 cake of yeast;
when dissolved, add 1-1/2 cups of white bread flour. Beat all together well, stand closely-covered
in a warm place until the following morning. From one cup of this sponge was made one oatmeal
loaf, and to the other cup of sponge white flour was added for a loaf of white bread or rolls.

AUNT SARAH'S WHITE BREAD (SPONGE METHOD)

Prepare the following "Yeast Sponge" at noon, the day preceding that on which you bake bread:
Place in a bowl (after the mid-day meal) 1 quart of potato water (containing no salt), in which
potatoes were boiled; also two medium-sized, finely-mashed potatoes, 1 tablespoonful of sugar
and, when luke warm, add 1 cup of good home-made or baker's yeast. Mix all well together; then
divide this mixture and pour each half into each of two 1-quart glass fruit jars. Place covers
tightly on jars and shake each jar well, to mix yeast and potato-water thoroughly. Stand yeast
in a warm place near the kitchen range over night. Jars should be covered only with a napkin.
The sponge should become light and foamy. In the morning use this freshly-prepared yeast to
set sponge for bread.

When preparing to set bread, place in a large bowl 1 pint of potato water, 1 tablespoonful
of sugar, 1 pint of the yeast sponge, 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, and use about 3 pounds of sifted
flour, well-dried and warmed. Knead from 15 to 20 minutes, until a stiff dough is formed. The
dough should be fine-grained and elastic and not stick to bake board. Place dough in the bowl
to rise; this should lake about four hours. When well-risen and light knead down and set to
rise again, about 1-1/2 hours. When light, mold into three large, shapely loaves; place in
pans and allow to stand one hour. When loaves have doubled in bulk, are very light and show
signs of cracking, invert a pan over top of loaves (if that was not done when loaves were put
in pans), and place in a rather hot oven to bake. Brush melted butter over loaves of bread
when set to rise, it will cause bread to have a crisp crust when baked. The old-fashioned way
of testing the heat of an oven was to hold the hand in the oven, if possible, while one counted
thirty.

The pint of yeast remaining in jar may be kept in a cool place one week, and may be used during
this time in making fresh "yeast foam." This should always be prepared the day before baking
bread. Always prepare double the quantity of "yeast foam." Use half to set bread, and reserve
half for next baking. Bread baked from this recipe has frequently taken first prize at County
Fairs and Farmers' Picnics.

When baking bread, the oven should be quite hot when bread is first placed therein, when the
bread should rise about an inch; then the heat of the oven should he lessened and in a half
hour a brown crust should begin forming; and during the latter part of the hour (the time required
for baking an ordinary-sized loaf) the heat of the oven should be less, causing the bread to
bake slowly. Should the heat of the oven not be great enough, when the loaves are placed within
for baking, then poor bread would be the result. This method of making bread will insure most
satisfactory results, although more troublesome than ordinary methods.

RECIPE FOR "PULLED BREAD"

Take a Vienna loaf of bread, twelve-hours old, cut away all the crust with a clean-cut knife,
then break away gently (with your fingers only) small finger-lengths of the bread, place in
a moderate oven and brown a golden brown, and it is ready to serve. 'Tis said six loaves will
be required for one pound of this pulled bread. 'Tis easily prepared in the home, but quite
costly, when purchased. Many people prefer "pulled bread" to fresh bread, as it is more wholesome.

AUNT SARAH'S "HUTZEL BROD"

2 pounds dried pears. 2 pounds dried prunes. 2 quarts juice of fruit and water. 1 pound dried
currants. 1 pound seeded raisins. 1 pound blanched and shredded almonds. 1 pound chopped English
walnut meats. 1-1/2 ounces finely-shredded citron. 1-1/2 ounces orange peel. 1/2 ounce chopped
figs. 1 ounce ground cinnamon. 1/4 ounce ground cloves. 2-1/2 ounces anise seed. 6 pounds flour
(warmed and sifted). 2 cakes compressed yeast. 1-1/2 cups sugar. 1 large tablespoon butter.
1 tablespoon salt. 4 tablespoons brandy or sherry.

The whole recipe will make 12 loaves of bread.

This delicious German bread was usually made by "Aunt Sarah" one week before Christmas. It
may be kept two weeks, and at the end of that time still be good. It is rather expensive as
regards fruit and nuts, but as no eggs are used, and a very small quantity of butter; and as
bread containing fruit is so much more wholesome than rich fruit cake. I think American housewives
would do well to bake this German bread occasionally. Mary took one-fourth the quantity of
everything called for in the recipe, except yeast. She used 3/4 of a cake of Fleischman's yeast
and 1/4 of each of the other ingredients, and from these baked three loaves of bread. The prunes
and pears should be covered with cold water at night and allowed to stand until the following
morning, when, after stewing until tender, the juice should be drained from the fruit and water
added to the fruit-juice to measure two quarts. Remove pits from prunes, cut pears and prunes
in small pieces; stand aside. Clean currants and raisins, blanch and shred almonds, chop walnut
meats, citron, orange peel and figs; add cinnamon, cloves and anise seed. Mix together flour
and one quart of the fruit juice; add the compressed yeast cakes (dissolved in a little warm
water), knead well, set a sponge as for ordinary bread; when raised, add the remaining quart
of fruit juice, sugar, butter and salt. A small quantity of brandy or sherry may be added,
but if not liked, fruit juice may be substituted.

Add the remaining ingredients, and knead thoroughly. Allow dough to raise from two to three
hours and when light form into loaves and allow to stand an hour, when bake. This quantity
of dough should be made into twelve small loaves. Should the flour and liquid used be warmed
before mixing, the dough will raise more quickly. It simplifies the work if the fruits and
nuts be prepared the day before the bread is baked.

AUNT SARAH'S WHITE BREAD AND ROLLS

1 quart potato water. 1 mashed potato. 1 tablespoonful butter or lard. 1 tablespoonful sugar.
1 Fleischman yeast cake, or 1 cup good yeast. 1/2 tablespoonful salt. Flour to stiffen (about
three quarts).

At 9 o'clock in the evening put in a large bowl the mashed potato, the quart of luke-warm potato
water (water in which potatoes were boiled for dinner), butter or sweet lard, sugar, salt,
and mix with flour into a batter, to which add the Fleischman's or any good yeast cake, dissolved
in a little luke-warm water. Beat well and stir in flour until quite stiff, turn out on a well-floured
bake-board and knead well about 25 minutes, until the dough is smooth, fine-grained and elastic,
and does not stick lo the bake-board or hands. Chop a knife through the dough several times;
knead and chop again. This makes the bread finer and closer-grained, or, so Aunt Sarah thought.
Knead in all the flour necessary when first mixing the bread. When sufficiently kneaded, form
into a large, round ball of dough, rub all over with soft lard, or butter, to prevent forming
a crust on top and keep from sticking to bowl, and set to rise, closely-covered with a cloth
and blanket, in a warm place until morning. In the morning the bread should be very light,
doubled in quantity. Take out enough dough for an ordinary loaf, separate this into three parts,
roll each piece with the hand on the bake-board into long, narrow pieces. Pinch the three pieces
together at one end and braid, or plait, into a narrow loaf. Brush over top with melted butter;
set to rise in a warm place in a bread pan, closely-covered, until it doubles in size--or,
if preferred, mold into ordinary-shaped loaves, and let rise until doubled in size, when bake
in a moderately-hot oven with steady heat.

Frequently, when the "Twist" loaves of bread were quite light and ready to be placed in the
oven, Aunt Sarah brushed the tops with yolk of egg, or a little milk, then strewed "Poppy Seeds"
thickly over. The poppy seeds give an agreeable flavor to the crust of the bread.

AUNT SARAH'S RAISED ROLLS (FROM BREAD DOUGH)

A portion of the white bread dough may be made into raised rolls. These rolls are excellent
without additional shortening, or, in fact, without anything else being added. Mold pieces
of the bread dough into balls the size of a walnut; roll each piece flat with the rolling pin,
dip in melted butter, fold and place close together in a bake pan. Let rise very light, then
bake about 15 minutes in a very hot oven. If a teaspoonful of flour browns in about two minutes
in the oven, it is the right temperature for rolls.

CLOVER-LEAF ROLLS

Take pieces of the bread dough, the size of a walnut, cut into three pieces, mold with the
hand into round balls the size of small marbles; dip each one in melted butter, or butter and
lard, and place three of these in each Gem pan. (These pans may be bought six or twelve small
pans fastened together, and are much more convenient than when each one must be handled separately
when baking). Allow small rolls to become very light, bake in a hot oven, and you will find
them excellent. Dipping the rolls in melted butter makes them crisp. Serve hot, or place in
a hot oven a few minutes until heated through, if served after they have become cold.

"POLISH" RYE BREAD (AS MADE IN BUCKS COUNTY)

This excellent, nutritious bread, is made from the whole-ground grain. Every part of the grain
is used in the flour, when ground. To bake this bread, sift together one quart of this "whole-ground"
rye flour and two quarts of white-bread flour. Early in the morning of the day on which bread
is to be baked, prepare a thick batter, or sponge, consisting of one quart of potato water
(or the same quantity of luke-warm, scalded milk, or a mixture of the two); add one tablespoonful
of a mixture of lard and butter and two boiled, mashed potatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of sugar,
one-half tablespoonful of salt and one Fleischman's compressed yeast cake, dissolved in a small
quantity of water; add about five cups of the mixed, sifted flour, beat the batter well, and
stand in a warm place, covered, from one and a half to two hours. When well-risen and light,
stir in balance of flour gradually, until all except one cup has been added; then turn onto
a bake-board and knead well. This sponge should not be quite as stiff as for wheat bread. Turn
the dough onto a clean, well-floured cloth in a large bowl, set to rise and bake according
to directions for baking "Hearth-baked Rye Bread" or, if preferred, form into loaves, place
in bread pans and, when light, bake.

PERFECT BREAKFAST ROLLS

One quart of scalded milk, when lukewarm, add the following: 1/2 cup of butter and lard (mixed),
1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 Fleischman's yeast cake; add flour
to form a thick batter; beat all thoroughly. Mix the above at 9.30 P.M., stand in a warm place,
closely-covered, over night. The following morning add more flour; dough should not be mixed
quite as stiff as for bread. Allow it to raise in a warm place. When well-risen, place on bread
board, roll, cut into small biscuits; dip each biscuit in melted butter, fold together, place
in pans a distance apart, and when they have doubled in size, bake in a hot oven.

"AN OLD RECIPE" FOR GOOD BREAD

This country cook invariably baked good bread and always used potato-water in preference to
any other liquid for setting sponge. She stood aside water, in which potatoes had been boiled
for dinner (usually about one quart or less) and added two finely-mashed potatoes. About 3
or 4 o'clock in the afternoon of the day before that on which she intended baking bread, she
dissolved one cake of yeast (she used the small cornmeal commercial yeast cakes, sold under
different names, such as National, Magic, etc.) in a half-cup of luke-warm water, added 1/2
teaspoon of salt and sufficient warmed, well-dried flour to make a thin batter. She placed
all in a bowl and stood it in a warm place, closely-covered, until about 9 o'clock in the evening,
when she added this sponge, which should be light and foamy, to the potato water, which should
be lukewarm. She also added 1 tablespoon of salt and enough flour to make a rather thick batter.
Heat thoroughly and allow this sponge to stand, well-covered, in a warm place until morning,
when add 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon butter or lard and warmed flour enough to make a
stiff dough. Turn out on the bread board and knead for about twenty minutes, until the dough
does not stick to the hands. Place stiffened dough into howl; allow it to rise until bulk is
doubled. Mold into loaves, adding as little extra flour as possible. Cut several gashes on
top of loaves, brush with melted butter, place in bread pans, and when loaves have doubled
in bulk, place in moderately hot oven and bake about one hour.

STEAMED BROWN BREAD

Place in a bowl 3/4 cup graham flour and 1/2 cup of yellow, granulated cornmeal. Sift into
this 3/4 cup of white flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder and 1/2 teaspoonful of salt. Mix
all ingredients together to form a batter by adding 1 cup of sour milk, in which has been dissolved
3/4 teaspoonful of soda. Then add 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses. Pour into a well-greased quart
can (the tin cans in which coffee is frequently sold will answer nicely), cover closely, place
in a kettle of boiling water, steam about three hours; stand in oven a short time after being
steamed. Cut in slices and serve as bread, or, by the addition of raisins or currants, and
a little grated nutmeg or other flavoring, a very appetizing and wholesome pudding may be served
hot, with sugar and cream or any pudding sauce preferred.

A WHOLESOME BREAD (MADE FROM BRAN)

Place in a bowl 4 cups of clean bran and 2 cups of white flour, sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls
of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix into a soft
batter with 2 cups of sweet milk; add 1/2 cup of molasses. Fill two layer cake pans and bake
in a hot oven about 25 minutes. This is so easily and quickly made. The young housewife may
mix, when commencing to prepare lunch, and when the meal is ready to serve the bread will be
baked, and it is an excellent laxative.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S "HUTZEL BROD"

1 quart dried pears. 1 pint of pear juice. 1 Fleischman's yeast cake. 1 scant cup brown sugar.
2 eggs. 1/4 teaspoonful soda. 1 pound of soaked raisins. 3/4 cup of a mixture of lard and butter.
1 teaspoonful of fennel seed. Pinch of salt. 2 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon. Flour to stiffen,
as for ordinary bread.

Cover one quart of dried pears with cold water and cook slowly about 20 minutes until they
have cooked tender, but not soft (the night before the day on which the bread is to be baked).

Then drain the juice from stewed pears, which should measure 1 pint; when lukewarm, add 1 yeast
cake, dissolved in a small quantity of lukewarm water, and about 3 cups of flour and a pinch
of salt. Stand, closely-covered, in a warm place over night to raise.

The following morning, add 1/4 teaspoonful of baking soda, dissolved in a little warm water,
to counteract any acidity of batter. Cream together sugar, butter and lard, add eggs one at
a time, men the well-floured, diced pears, also raisins, cinnamon and fennel seed, and enough
flour to stiffen as for ordinary bread. Knead well, let rise; it will require some time, as
the fruit retards the raising process. When light, turn onto a bake-board, cut into four portions,
mold into four shapely loaves, place in pans, brush with melted butter and when quite light,
place in a moderate oven and bake one hour. This bread will keep well several weeks, if kept
in a tin cake box.

This recipe is much simpler than Aunt Sarah's recipe for making "Hutzel Brod," but bread made
from this recipe is excellent.

"AUNT SARAH'S" QUICKLY-MADE BROWN BREAD

2 cups of buttermilk, or thick, sour milk. 1/2 cup of sugar. 1/4 cup of molasses. 1 tablespoonful
of melted butter. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 3/4 teaspoonful of salt. 3-1/2 cups of graham
flour. 1/2 cup of white flour, sifted with 3/4 teaspoonful of baking powder.

The egg was placed in a bowl, and not beaten separately; sugar and butter were creamed together,
before being added; then mix in salt and molasses, and gradually add buttermilk, in which the
soda had been dissolved; then add white and graham flour, 3/4 cups of raisins may be added,
if liked. Bake in a bread pan in a moderately hot oven.

"STIRRED" OATMEAL BREAD

Early in the morning 1 cup of oatmeal porridge, left over from that which had been cooked for
breakfast, was placed in a bowl and added gradually 2 cups of scalded, luke-warm milk, 1 tablespoon
of a mixture of lard and butter, 1/4 cup New Orleans molasses and one Fleischman's yeast cake,
dissolved in a little of the milk; stir in about 3 cups of bread flour and stand in a warm
place about 1-1/4 hours to rise; then add 3-1/2 cups more of bread flour and 1 teaspoonful
of salt. Stir well with a spoon, and pour into three small bread tins; let rise, when well-risen,
bake about 3/4 of an hour in a moderately hot oven. This is a delicious and wholesome bread
and no kneading is necessary. 1-1/2 cups of the cooked oatmeal might be used, then use less
white bread flour when mixing.

NUT AND RAISIN BREAD

2 cups buttermilk, or sour milk. 1/2 cup brown sugar, 2 cups graham flour. 1 cup wheat flour.
1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little of the milk. 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted
with the wheat flour.

Mix all together, add one cup of seeded raisins, 1/4 cup of ground peanuts and 1/4 cup chopped
walnut meats. Bake in an ordinary bread pan.

"SAFFRON" RAISIN BREAD

For this old-fashioned, "country" bread, set a sponge in the evening, consisting of 1 cup of
luke-warm water, 1 Fleischman's compressed yeast cake and 2 tablespoonfuls of saffron water,
obtained by steeping 1/2 tablespoonful of dried saffron flowers in a small quantity of boiling
water a short time. Use about 2 cups of flour to stiffen the sponge. Cover bowl containing
sponge and stand in a warm place until morning, when add the following: 3/4 cup of soft A sugar,
1/4 cup lard and 1/8 cup of butter (beaten to a cream); then add one egg. Beat again and add
this mixture to the well-risen sponge. Add also 3/4 cup of seeded raisins and about 1-3/4 cups
of flour.

The dough should be almost as stiff as ordinary bread dough. Set to rise about one hour. Then
divide the dough and mold into two shapely loaves. Place in oblong bread pans. Let rise about
1-1/2 hours. Brush melted butter over top of loaves and bake in a moderately hot oven, as one
would bake ordinary bread.

This bread is a rich, golden yellow, with a distinctive, rather bitter, saffron flavor, well-liked
by some people; saffron is not unwholesome.

"Speaking of saffron bread," said John Landis, to his niece, Mary, "I am reminded of the lines
I was taught when quite a small boy:"

    "Wer will gute kuchen haben, der muss sieben sachen haben;
    Eier, butter un schmalz, milch, zucker un mehl;
    Un saffron mach die kuchen gehl."

"Of course, Mary, you do not understand what that means. I will translate it for you. 'Who
would have good cakes, he must have seven things--eggs, butter and lard, milk, sugar and flour,
and saffron makes the cakes yellow.'"

RAISED ROLLS

2 quarts of sifted flour. 1 pint of boiled milk (lukewarm). 1 tablespoon sugar. 1/2 cup butter
and lard, mixed. 3/4 cake compressed yeast, or 3/4 cup yeast. 1 teaspoon salt.

At 5 o'clock P.M. set sponge with half or three-fourths of the flour and all the other ingredients.

About 9 o'clock in the evening, knead well, adding the balance of the flour. Cover and let
stand in a warm place until morning. In the morning, roll out about 3/4 of an inch thick, cut
into small rolls, place in baking pans far enough apart so they will not touch, and when raised
quite light, bake.

Or, take the same ingredients as above (with one exception; take one whole cake of compressed
yeast), dissolved in half a cup of luke-warm water, and flour enough to make a thin batter.
Do this at 8.30 in the morning and let rise until 1 o'clock; then knead enough flour in to
make a soft dough, as soft as can be handled. Stand in a warm place until 4.30, roll out quite
thin; cut with small, round cake-cutter and fold over like a pocketbook, putting a small piece
of butter the size of a pea between the folds; set in a warm place until 5.30, or until very
light; then bake a delicate brown in a hot oven. If made quite small, 70 rolls may be made
from this dough.

To cause rolls of any kind to have a rich, brown glaze, when baked, before placing the pan
containing them in the oven, brush over the top of each roll the following mixture, composed
of--yolk of 1 egg, 1 tablespoon of milk, and 1 teaspoon of sugar.

"GRANDMOTHER'S" FINE RAISED BISCUITS

1 quart scalded milk (lukewarm). 3/4 cup of butter, or a mixture of butter and lard. 1/2 cup
of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 2 Fleischman's yeast cakes. Whites of 2 eggs. Flour.

Quite early in the morning dissolve the two yeast cakes in a little of the milk; add these,
with one-half the quantity of sugar and salt in the recipe, to the remainder of the quart of
milk; add also 4 cups of flour to form the yeast foam. Beat well and stand in a warm place,
closely-covered, one hour, until light and foamy.

Beat the sugar remaining and the butter to a cream; add to the yeast foam about 7 to 8 cups
of flour, and the stiffly-beaten whites of the two eggs.

Turn out on a well-floured bread board and knead about five minutes. Place in a bowl and let
rise again (about one hour or longer) until double in bulk, when roll out about one inch in
thickness. Cut small biscuits with a 1/2 pound Royal Baking Powder can.

Brush tops of biscuits with a mixture consisting of yolk of one egg, a teaspoonful of sugar
and a little milk; this causes the biscuits to have a rich brown crust when baked.

Place biscuits on pans a short distance apart, let rise until doubled in bulk; bake in a rather
quick oven.

From this recipe was usually made 55 biscuits. One-half of this recipe would be sufficient
for a small family.

Mary's Aunt taught her the possibilities of what she called a "Dutch" sponge--prepared from
one Fleischman's yeast cake. And the variety a capable housewife may give her family, with
the expenditure of a small amount of time and thought.

About 9 o'clock in the evening Mary's Aunt placed in a bowl 2 cups of potato water (drained
from potatoes boiled for dinner). In this she dissolved one Fleischman's yeast cake, stirred
into this about 3 cups of well-warmed flour, beat thoroughly for about ten minutes. Allowed
this to stand closely covered in a warm place over night. On the following morning she added
to the foamy sponge 1-1/2 cups lukewarm, scalded milk, in which had been dissolved 1 tablespoonful
of a mixture of butter and lard, 2 generous tablespoonfuls of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt.
About 6-1/4 cups of well-dried and warmed flour; she stirred in a part of the flour, then added
the balance. Kneaded well a short time, then set to raise closely covered in a warm place 2-1/2
to 3 hours.

When dough was light it was kneaded down in bowl and allowed to stand about one hour, and when
well risen she placed 2 cups of light bread sponge in a bowl, and stood aside in warm place;
this later formed the basis of a "Farmers' Pound Cake," the recipe for which may be found among
recipes for "Raised Cakes."

From the balance of dough, or sponge, after being cut into 3 portions, she molded from the
one portion 12 small turn-over rolls, which were brushed with melted butter, folded together
and placed on tins a distance apart and when very light baked in a quick oven.

From another portion of the sponge was made a twist or braided loaf.

And to the remaining portion of dough was added 1/2 cup of currants or raisins, and this was
called a "Currant" or "Raisin Loaf," which she served for dinner the following day.

The rolls were placed in the oven of the range a few minutes before breakfast and served hot,
broken apart and eaten with maple syrup or honey and the delicious "Farmers' Pound Cake" was
served for supper.

Aunt Sarah baked these on ironing day. The kitchen being unusually warm, as a result of the
extra heat required in the range for heating flatirons, caused the dough to rise more quickly
than otherwise would have been the case.

STIRRED BREAD

Frau Schmidt thought bread more easily digested and wholesome if ingredients of a loaf be stirred
together instead of kneaded. This is the method she taught Mary. She poured into a bowl 3 cups
of luke-warm water, added 1 cake of Fleischman's yeast, dissolved in a little of the water;
sifted in gradually about 8-1/2 cups of flour, added 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1/2 teaspoonful
of salt, mixed all well together with a spoon until a stiff dough was formed, which she molded
into two shapely loaves, handling as little as possible; placed in bread pans, allowed to stand
several hours to raise, and when light baked. Mary said, "This bread may be more wholesome
than old-fashioned bread, which has been kneaded, but I prefer Aunt Sarah's bread, well-kneaded,
fine-grained and sweet," but, she continued, "I will make an exception in favor of Aunt Sarah's
'Stirred Oatmeal' bread, which, I think, fine."

POTATO BISCUITS

At 6 o'clock in the morning place in a bowl 1 cup of finely-mashed (boiled) potatoes (the cup
of left-over mashed potatoes may be used as a matter of economy). Add 1 cup of potato water
(the water drained from boiled potatoes), in which 1/2 cake of Fleischman's yeast had been
dissolved, add 1 cup of flour and 1 teaspoon of sugar. Stand in a warm place to raise, from
1 to 1-1/4 hours. At the expiration of that time add to the foamy sponge 1 large tablespoonful
of butter or lard, 1 egg and 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, beaten together before adding. Add about
2 cups of flour, beat thoroughly and allow to raise another hour; then roll out the dough about
1 inch in thickness and cut into small biscuits, dip each one in melted butter and place on
pans, a short distance apart, stand about one hour to raise, when bake in a rather hot oven.
These Potato Biscuits are particularly nice when freshly baked, and resemble somewhat biscuits
made from baking powder. From this recipe was made two dozen biscuits.

AUNT SARAH'S POTATO YEAST

9 medium-sized potatoes. 5 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons salt. 1 quart water.

Grate the raw potatoes quickly, so they will not discolor, pour over the grated potato the
quart of boiling water, add salt and sugar, cook several minutes until the consistency of boiled
starch, let cool, and when lukewarm add 1 cup of good yeast. Stir all together in a crock,
cover and let stand in a warm place three or four hours, when it is foamy and rises to top
of crock, stir down several times, then fill glass fruit jars, cover and stand away in a cool
place until needed.

This yeast will keep about ten days. Use one cup to about three pounds of flour, or one quart
of liquid, when setting sponge for bread. Save one cup of this yeast to start fresh yeast with.

PERFECTION POTATO CAKES

1 cup of boiled mashed potatoes. 1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup water in which 1 Fleischman yeast
cake was dissolved. 2 cups soft A sugar. 1/2 cup butter and lard mixed. 2 eggs. A little salt.
About 7 cups of flour.

Cream the sugar, butter and eggs together. Add mashed potatoes, milk and cup of water containing
yeast, alternately with the flour, until about 7 cups of flour have been used, making a dough
as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. Stand, covered, in a warm place by the range until
morning. These should be set to rise about nine o'clock in the evening. The following morning
take pieces of the dough, on a well-floured bake board; roll about one inch thick, to fit in
pie tins, place in pie tins to raise; when doubled in bulk spread with melted butter and sprinkle
sugar thickly over top and bake in a moderately hot oven until lightly browned on top. This
quantity of dough makes six cakes.

Instead of brushing the cakes with above mixture, place in a bowl 1/2 cup of soft A sugar,
1/2 cup flour, a tiny pinch of salt and baking powder each and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter (not
melted), mix all together as crumbly as possible, then the crumbs were sprinkled thickly over
tops of cakes, which had been brushed with a mixture of milk and sugar. Place cakes in oven
when raised; bake 20 minutes.

This recipe was given Mary by an old "Bucks County" cook, noted for the excellence of her raised
cakes. Stand this sponge in a warm place, closely covered, about 3/4 of an hour, to raise.
At the end of that time add to the light, well-risen sponge, the following: 3 tablespoonfuls
of a mixture of lard and butter, and 1/3 cup of soft A sugar, creamed together. Add one large
egg. Beat well. Lastly, add about 2 cupfuls of flour. Mix all together thoroughly, and let
raise again about 1-1/2 hours. Divide the well-risen sponge into four portions. Roll each piece
with rolling-pin into lengthwise pieces about 1/2 inch thick and spread with one tablespoonful
of melted butter, scant 2 tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, dust over this a small quantity of
cinnamon, and 1 tablespoonful of dried currants. Shape into a long, narrow roll with the hands,
on a well-floured bake-board. Cut each roll into five pieces. Pinch one end of each piece together
and place each bun, cut side down, a short distance apart, in an iron pan which has been well
greased, having brushed a little melted butter and a sprinkling of sugar over pan. Allow these
to rise in a warm place as before, about 1-1/2 hours, until quite light, as having the extra
sugar, butter and currants added retards their rising as quickly as would plain biscuits.

Bake 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate oven.

From this quantity of material was made 20 cinnamon buns.

"KLEINA KAFFE KUCHEN" (LITTLE COFFEE CAKES)

Scant 1/2 cup lard and butter. 2 cups sifted flour. 2 whole eggs and the yolks of 2 more. 3
tablespoons sugar. 1/4 cup cream. 1/4 milk. 1 Fleischman's yeast cake. 1/8 teaspoon salt.

The yeast cake was dissolved in the 1/4 cup lukewarm milk, a couple tablespoons of flour were
added and mixed into a batter, and stood in a warm place to rise. The butter and sugar were
stirred to a cream, salt was added, the eggs were beaten in, one at a time, next was added
the sponge containing the yeast, the lukewarm cream, and the sifted flour. Grease slightly
warmed Gem pans, sift a little flour over them, fill two-thirds full with the soft dough, set
in a warm place to rise to tops of pans, and when quite light bake in a medium hot oven about
25 minutes. The oven should be hot enough to allow them to rise quickly. Put something underneath
the pans in the oven to prevent bottom of cakes from burning. These may be set about 8 o'clock
in the morning if cakes are wished for lunch at noon. These are not cheap, as this quantity
makes only 12 cakes, but they are light as puffballs. The Professor's wife served them when
she gave a "Kaffee Klatch." She doubled the recipe, baked the cakes in the morning, and placed
them in the oven to heat through before serving. The cakes should be broken apart, not cut.
The cakes made from this recipe are particularly fine.

GROSSMUTTER'S POTATO CAKES

1 cup hot mashed potatoes. 1-1/2 cups sugar. 1 scant cup butter and lard. 1 cup home-made yeast
or 1 yeast cake dissolved in 1 cup lukewarm water. 3 eggs. Flour.

At 5 o'clock in the afternoon set to rise the following: One cup of sugar and one cup of hot
mashed potatoes; when lukewarm add one cup of flour and one cup of yeast; beat all together,
stand in a warm place to rise and at 9 o'clock in the evening cream together 1 cup of a mixture
of lard and butter, 1 cup of sugar, 3 eggs and pinch of salt; add the sponge and beat well.
Stir as stiff as you can stir it with a large spoon, cover, set in a warm place to rise until
morning, when roll out some of the dough into cakes about one inch thick, put in pie tins to
rise, and when light, make half a dozen deep impressions on top of each cake with the forefinger,
spread with melted butter and strew light-brown sugar thickly over top, or mix together 1 cup
sugar, butter size of an egg, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons boiling water, beat well and
spread the mixture on cakes just before placing in oven. Bake the cakes about 20 minutes in
a moderate oven. This is a very old recipe used by Aunt Sarah's grandmother, and similar to
the well-known German cakes called "Schwing Felders."

AUNT SARAH'S "BREAD DOUGH" CAKE

1 cup bread dough. 1 egg. 1/2 cup soft A sugar. 1 tablespoon lard or butter. 1/4 teaspoon soda.

When her bread dough was raised and ready to put in the pans she placed a cupful of it in a
bowl and added the egg, sugar, butter, soda (dissolved in a little hot water); some dried raisins
or currants, and just enough flour so it might be handled easily. Put in a small agate pan
four inches deep, let rise until light, dust pulverized sugar over top and bake about 25 or
30 minutes in a moderate oven.

Double the materials called for, using 2 cups of well-risen bread dough or sponge, and you
will have a good-sized cake.

GOOD, CHEAP DUTCH CAKES

To a bowl containing 1 cup of scalded milk, add 1 tablespoonful of lard and 1 cup of sugar.
When lukewarm add 1 yeast cake (Fleischman's), dissolved in 1 cup of lukewarm water, and about
5 cups of good flour. Set to rise at night about nine o'clock, the next morning roll out pieces
about one and a half inches thick, to fit in medium-sized pie tins. Set in a warm place to
rise. When light, brush top with melted butter and strew sugar thickly over and bake from 15
to 20 minutes in a moderately hot oven. These cakes are inexpensive and good; no eggs or butter
being used.

RECIPE FOR "LIGHT CAKES" (GIVEN MARY BY A FARMER'S WIFE)

In the evening mix a sponge consisting of 1/2 cup of mashed potatoes, 1/2 cup sugar, 1 cup
of yeast or 1 cake of Fleischman's yeast dissolved in a cup of lukewarm water; 1/2 cup of a
mixture of butter and lard and a pinch of salt and flour to thicken until batter is quite thick.
Stand in a warm place, closely covered, until morning, when add 2 eggs and 1/2 cup of sugar
and flour to stiffen as thick as sponge can be stirred with a spoon. Set to rise; when light
roll out one inch thick, place in pie tins, brush tops with melted butter and brown sugar,
set to rise, and, when well risen, bake.

BUTTER "SCHIMMEL"

Place in a mixing bowl 2 cups of warm, mashed potatoes and add 3/4 of a cup of shortening (a
mixture of lard and butter), (or use Aunt Sarah's substitute for butter); one cup of A sugar
and 1 teaspoonful salt.

Beat all to a cream. Set to raise over night or early in the morning. When well risen add about
4 cups of flour. Make about as stiff a dough as can be stirred well with a mixing spoon. Place
soft dough on a bake-board; roll out into a sheet about one-half inch thick; cut into squares
about the size of a common soda cracker; bring each of the four corners together in the centre
like an envelope; pinch together; place a small piece of butter (about one-eighth teaspoonful)
on the top where the four corners join. Stand in a warm place to rise. When well risen and
light place in the oven. When baked, take from oven, and while hot dip all sides in melted
butter and dust granulated or pulverized sugar over top. These are not as much trouble to prepare
as one would suppose from the directions for making. The same dough may be cut in doughnuts
with a tin cutter and fried in hot fat after raising, or the dough may be molded into small,
round biscuits if preferred, and baked in oven.

"BUCKS COUNTY" DOUGHNUTS

About nine o'clock in the evening a batter was mixed composed of the following:

1 cup milk. 1 cup hot water. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 3-1/2 cups of flour.

Stand in a warm place until morning. Then add 1/2 cup of butter and 1-1/2 cups of soft A sugar,
creamed together, and from 3 to 4 cups of flour. The dough should be as stiff as can be stirred
with a spoon. Set to rise in a warm place; when light and spongy, roll out on a well-floured
bake-board and cut into round cakes with a hole in the centre. Let rise again, and when well
risen fry a golden brown in deep fat and sift over pulverized sugar. This recipe will make
45 doughnuts. These are good and economical, as no eggs are used in this recipe.

EXTRA FINE "QUAKER BONNET" BISCUITS

For these quaint-looking, delicious biscuits, a sponge was prepared consisting of:

1 pink milk. 3 eggs. 1/2 cup mixture butter and lard. 1 yeast cake (Fleischman's). About 7
cups flour.

Set to rise early in the morning. When well risen (in about 3 hours), roll dough into a sheet
about 1/4 inch in thickness, cut with a half-pound baking powder can into small, round biscuits,
brush top of each one with melted butter (use a new, clean paint brush for this purpose), place
another biscuit on top of each one of these, and when raised very light and ready for oven
brush top of each biscuit with a mixture consisting of half of one yolk of egg (which had been
reserved from the ones used in baking), mixed with a little milk. Biscuits should have been
placed on a baking sheet some distance apart, let rise about one hour until quite light, then
placed in a quick but not too hot an oven until baked a golden brown on top.

Mary gave these the name of "Quaker Bonnet" Biscuits, as the top biscuit did not raise quite
as much as the one underneath and greatly resembled the crown of a Quaker bonnet.

From this quantity of dough was made three dozen biscuits. These are not cheap, but extra fine.

BUCKS COUNTY CINNAMON "KUCHEN"

Explicit directions for the making of these excellent raised cakes was given Mary by an old,
experienced Pennsylvania German cook. They were prepared from the following recipe: Early in
the morning 1 pint of milk was scalded. When lukewarm, add 3-1/2 cups of flour and 1 cake of
Fleischman's compressed yeast (which had been dissolved in 1 tablespoonful of lukewarm water).
Beat the mixture well. Cover and stand in a warm place to rise. When well risen, which should
be in about 2 hours, add the following mixture, composed of 3/4 cup of sugar and 1/2 cup of
butter, creamed together; 1/2 teaspoonful of salt; 1 egg was beaten into the mixture, and about
2 cups of flour were added, enough to make a dough as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon.
Dough should not be as stiff as for bread. Let stand about 1 hour. When well risen and light,
divide into four portions. Roll out each piece of dough to thickness of one inch. Place cakes
in medium-sized pie tins and allow them to stand about one hour. Brush top of each cake with
1/2 tablespoonful of melted butter. Sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls of soft A sugar and sift
over a little pulverized cinnamon, if liked, just before placing cakes in oven. Bake cakes
from 20 to 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. From this dough may be made four cakes.

Excellent biscuits may also be made from this same dough, by simply moulding it into small
biscuits and place in a pan some distance apart. Let rise and brush tops of biscuits with a
mixture composed of a part of an egg yolk, a tablespoonful of milk and 1/2 teaspoonful sugar.
This causes the biscuits to have a rich, brown color when baked.

The sponge from which these cakes or biscuits were made was mixed and set to rise at 6 o'clock
in the morning, and the baking was finished at 11 o'clock. Sponge should be set to rise in
a warm room. If these directions are carefully followed the housewife will invariably have
good results. Always use hard Spring wheat for bread or biscuits, raised with yeast; and Winter
wheat, which costs less, will answer for making cake and pastry. In cold weather always warm
flour before baking, when yeast is used for baking raised cakes. Soft A sugar or a very light
brown is to be preferred to granulated.

MORAVIAN SUGAR CAKES

At 5 o'clock P.M. set a sponge or batter, consisting of 1 cup of mashed potatoes, 2 cups of
sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, scalded and cooled, 1/2 cake of yeast, dissolved in 1 cup of lukewarm
water, 2 eggs 3/4 cup of a mixture of lard and butter, add 3 cups of flour, beat well, stand
in a warm place to raise; at 9 o'clock add about 6 cups of flour. Stand until morning in a
warm place, near the range. The following morning turn out on a floured bake-board, roll out
cakes one inch thick, place in pie tins, when ready for the oven; punch half a dozen small
holes in the top of cakes, in which place small bits of butter. Sprinkle sugar over liberally
and cinnamon if liked. Bake in a moderate oven.

MARY'S POTATO CAKES

1 cup freshly-boiled mashed potatoes. 1 cup scalded sweet milk. 1 cup sugar. Flour about 6
cups. 1 cake Fleischman's yeast. 2 eggs. 1/2 cup butter and lard mixed. 1/2 cup potato water.

At 7 o'clock in the morning Mary mixed a sponge consisting of a cup of mashed potatoes, 1 cup
scalded milk, 1/2 cup sugar, 1-1/2 cups of flour and the cake of Fleischman's yeast, dissolved
in half a cup of lukewarm potato water. This was set to rise in a warm place near the range
for several hours until light. Then she creamed together 1/2 cup of sugar, 2 eggs and 1/2 cup
of butter and lard, or use instead the "Substitute for Butter." Added the creamed sugar, butter
and eggs to the well-risen sponge and about 4-1/2 cups of flour. Sift a couple of tablespoons
of flour over top of sponge, and set to rise again about 1-1/2 hours. When light, take cut
pieces of the sponge on a well-floured bread-board, knead for a minute or two, then roll out
with a rolling-pin inlo pieces about one inch thick, place in well-greased small pie tins,
over which a dust of flour has been sifted, set to rise about 1-1/2 hours. When light and ready
for oven brush top with milk, strew crumbs over or brush with melted butter and strew sugar
over top; after punching half dozen holes in top of each cake, bake in a moderately hot oven
from 20 to 25 minutes until a rich brown, when cakes should be baked. Five potato cakes may
be made from this sponge, or four cakes and one pan of biscuits if preferred. Use soft "A"
sugar rather than granulated for these cakes, and old potatoes are superior to new. Or when
these same cakes were raised, ready to be placed in the oven, Mary frequently brushed the tops
of cakes with melted butter, strewing over the following: 1 cup of flour mixed with 1/2 cup
of sugar and yolk of 1 egg, and a few drops of vanilla. This mixture rubbed through a coarse
sieve and scattered over cakes Mary called "Streusel Kuchen."

GERMAN RAISIN CAKE (RAISED WITH YEAST)

Place in a bowl 1 cup of milk, scalded and cooled until lukewarm; add 1 tablespoonful of sugar
and dissolve one cake of yeast in the milk. Mix in 1 cup of flour and stand in a warm place
to raise 3/4 of an hour. Add the yeast mixture and allow it to raise about 2 hours longer.
At the expiration of that time turn the well-risen sponge out on a floured bake-board. After
giving the dough several deft turns on the board with the hand, place in a well-greased fruit
cake pan, which has been dusted with flour. Stand pan containing cake in a warm place, let
rise until very light, probably 1-1/4 hours, when brush the top of cake with a small quantity
of a mixture of milk and sugar. Sift pulverized sugar thickly over top. Place the cake in a
moderately hot oven, so the cake may finish rising before commencing to brown on the top. Bake
about 35 minutes.

"KAFFEE KRANTZ" (COFFEE WREATH)

1 cup sugar. 3/4 cup butter and lard. 4 eggs. 1 pint milk. 1 Fleischman's yeast cake. 4 cups flour.

Cream together the sugar, butter, lard and eggs, add the milk, which has been scalded and allowed
to cool; flour, and yeast cake, dissolved in a half cup of lukewarm water; beat well. Set this
sponge to rise in a warm place, near the range, as early as possible in the morning. This will
take about 1-1/2 hours to rise. When the sponge is light add about 3 cups more of flour. The
dough, when stiff as can be stirred with a spoon, will be right. Take about 2 cups of this
sponge out on a well-floured bake-board, divide in three pieces, and braid and form into a
wreath or "Krantz," or they may be made out into flat cakes and baked in pie tins after they
have been raised and are light. Sprinkle sugar thickly over top after brushing with milk containing
a little sugar, before placing in oven. These should rise in about 1-1/2 hours. Place in a
moderately hot oven and bake from 20 to 25 minutes. This recipe Frau Schmidt translated from
the German language for Mary's especial benefit.

This coffee wreath is particularly fine if small pieces of crushed rock candy be sprinkled
liberally over the top and blanched almonds stuck a couple of inches apart over the top just
before placing the cake in the oven, after the cakes had been brushed with a mixture of milk
and sugar.

"MONDEL KRANTZ" OR ALMOND CAKE (AS MADE BY FRAU SCHMIDT)

1 pint sweet milk. 3/4 cup sugar. 3 eggs. 1 yeast cake or 1 cup yeast. 1/3 cup butter. 2 tablespoons
rock candy. 1 orange. 2 tablespoons chopped almonds. Flour.

Set to rise early in the morning. To the scalded milk, when lukewarm, add the yeast and flour
enough to make a batter, cover, set to rise until light, near the range, which will take several
hours. Then add the sugar, butter and eggs beaten to a cream, grated rind and juice of orange,
a couple tablespoons finely-chopped almonds, and add enough flour to make a soft dough, as
stiff as can be stirred with a spoon; set to rise again, and when light, divide the dough in
two portions, from which you form two wreaths. Roll half the dough in three long strips on
the floured bake-board with the hands, then braid them together. Place a large coffee cup or
bowl inverted on the centre of a large, round or oval, well-greased pan, lay the wreath around
the bowl. The bowl in the centre of the pan prevents the dough from running together and forming
a cake. Brush the top of the wreath with a little milk, containing teaspoon of sugar, over
the top of the wreath, stick blanched, well-dried almonds, and strew thickly with crushed rock
candy or very coarse sugar.

Let rise until light, then bake. This makes two quite large wreaths.

The Professor's wife told Mary when she gave her this recipe, this almond wreath was always
served at the breakfast table on Christmas morning at the home of her parents in Germany, and
was always baked by her mother, who gave her this recipe, and it was found on the breakfast
table of Frau Schmidt Christmas morning as regularly as was made "Fast Nacht Kuchen" by Aunt
Sarah every year on "Shrove Tuesday," the day before the beginning of the Lenten season.

THE PROFESSOR'S WIFE'S RECIPE FOR "DUTCH CAKES"

2 tablespoons of butter or lard. 2 eggs. 1 cup "Soft A" sugar. 1/2 yeast cake. 1 pint milk.
1/2 teaspoonful of salt. Flour.

She scalded the milk, added butter and eggs, well beaten, when the milk was lukewarm, then
added yeast, dissolved in a little lukewarm water, sugar, salt and flour to make a thin batter.
Beat all together five minutes, stood the batter, closely covered, in a warm place, over night.
In the morning, added flour to make a soft dough, kneaded lightly for ten minutes, placed in
bowl and set to rise again. When light, she rolled out dough one inch in thickness, placed
in pie tins, and when raised a second time spread over the cakes the following mixture before
placing in oven: 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water
and butter size of an egg, beaten well together. Bake 20 minutes.

"FARMERS' POUND CAKE" (AS AUNT SARAH CALLED THIS)

Place in a bowl 2 cups of light, well-raised bread sponge (when all flour necessary had been
added and loaves were shaped ready to be placed in bread pan for final rising). Cream together
3/4 cup of a mixture of lard and butter, add 2 eggs, first yolks then stiffly beaten whites,
also add 1-1/2 cups soft A sugar. Add to the 2 cups of bread sponge in bowl and beat well until
fully incorporated with the dough, then add 1/2 cup of lukewarm milk, in which had been dissolved
1/2 teaspoonful of salaratus.

Beat all together until mixture is smooth and creamy, then add 2 cups of bread flour and 1/2
teaspoon of lemon flavoring. Beat well and add 1-1/2 cups of either currants or raisins, dusted
with flour. Pour mixture into an agate pudding dish (one holding 3 quarts, about 2-1/2 inches
in depth and 30 inches in circumference). Stand in a warm place 3 to 4 hours to raise; when
raised to top of pan place in a moderately hot oven and bake about 40 minutes, when, taken
from oven, dust with pulverized sugar thickly over top of cake.

This cake should be large as an old-fashioned fruit cake, will keep moist some time in a tin
cake box, but is best when freshly baked.

GERMAN "COFFEE BREAD"

1/3 cup sugar 1/3 cup butter 1 cup hot milk 1 yeast cake 2 eggs 2-1/2 cups flour.

As Aunt Sarah taught Mary to bake this, it was fine. She creamed together in a bowl the sugar
and butter, poured the hot milk over this, and when lukewarm, added the compressed yeast cake,
dissolved in 1/4 cup of lukewarm water. She then added two small, well-beaten eggs, about 2-1/2
cups flour, or enough to make a stiff batter, and 1/2 teaspoonful salt. Beat thoroughly, cover
and set to rise in a warm place about 1-1/2 hours or until doubled in bulk. This was set to
rise quite early in the morning. When light, beat thoroughly and with a spoon spread evenly
on top of well-greased, deep pie tins, which have been sprinkled with a little flour.

Spread the crumbs given below over the top of cakes, cover and let rise 15 minutes and bake
a rich brown in moderate oven.

For the crumbs, mix together in a bowl 1 heaped cup of fine, soft, stale bread crumbs, 2-1/2
tablespoonfuls light brown sugar, 3/4 of a teaspoonful cinnamon, pinch of salt, 1/4 cup of
blanched and chopped almonds, and 2 tablespoonfuls of soft butter. This sponge or dough should
be unusually soft when mixed, as the crumbs sink into the dough and thicken it. Add only the
quantity of flour called for in recipe.

"FAST NACHT KUCHEN" (DOUGHNUTS)

3 tablespoons honey. 3/4 quart milk. 2 quarts flour. 1 yeast cake. 1/2 cup butter. 2 eggs.

Without fail, every year on Shrove Tuesday, or "Fast Nacht," the day before the beginning of
Lent, these cakes were made. Quite early in the morning, or the night before, the following
sponge was set to rise: The lukewarm, scalded milk, mixed into a smooth batter with 1 quart
of flour; add 1 Fleischman's yeast cake, dissolved in a very little water. Beat well together,
set in a warm place to rise over night, or several hours, and when light, add the following,
which has been creamed together: eggs, butter and lard, a little flour and the honey. Beat
well, and then add the balance of the flour, reserving a small quantity to flour the board
later. Set to rise again, and when quite light roll out on a well-floured board, cut into circles
with a doughnut cutter, cut holes in the centre of cakes, let rise, and then fry in deep fat;
dust with pulverised sugar and cinnamon, if liked. These are regular German doughnuts, and
are never very sweet. If liked sweeter, a little sugar may be added. From this batter Mary
made 18 "fried cakes," or "Fast Nacht Kuchen," as the Germans call them. She also made from
the same dough one dozen cinnamon buns and two Dutch cakes. The dough not being very sweet,
she sprinkled rivels composed of sugar, flour and butter, generously over the top of the "Dutch
cakes." The dough for doughnuts, or fried cakes, should always have a little more flour added
than dough for "Dutch cakes" or buns; baked in the oven. If too soft, they will absorb fat
while frying.

"KAFFEE KUCHEN" (COFFEE CAKE)

2 cups milk. 1 heaped cup soft A sugar. 1/2 cup butter and lard. 1 egg. 1 Fleischman's yeast
cake. Flour.

These German Coffee Cakes should be set to rise either early in the morning or the night before
being baked. Scald 2 cups sweet milk and set aside to cool. Cream together in a bowl 1 heaped
cup of A sugar, 1/2 cup butter and lard and the yolk of egg. Add this to the lukewarm milk
alternately with 6-1/2 cups flour and the yeast cake dissolved in 1/3 cup lukewarm water. Beat
all together, and, lastly, add the stiffly-beaten white of egg. Cover and set in a warm place
to rise over night, or, if set to rise in the morning, stand about 2-1/2 hours until light.
Put an extra cup of flour on the bake-board, take out large spoonfuls of the dough, mix in
just enough flour to roll out into flat cakes, spread on well-greased pie tins, stand in a
warm place until light, about 1-1/4 hours. When the cakes are ready for the oven, brush melted
butter over the top, strew thickly with brown sugar, or spread rivels over top, composed of
1/2 cup sugar, 1/2 cup flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, crumbled together. Strew these
over the cakes just before placing them in the oven of range.

"STREUSEL KUCHEN" Mix with these ingredients about 3-1/2 cups of flour and 1 cup of yeast.
Set this sponge to rise at night in a warm place, well covered. Let stand in a warm place until
light. Then roll out pieces size of a plate, one inch thick; place on well-greased pie tins,
let rise, and when light and ready for the oven brush over tops with melted butter and strew
over the tops of cakes the following: Mix 1 cup of flour, 1/2 cup of sugar and yolk of 1 egg.
Flavor with a few drops of vanilla (or use vanilla sugar, which is made by placing several
vanilla beans in a jar of sugar a short time, which flavors sugar). Rub this mixture of flour,
sugar and yolk of egg through a coarse sieve and strew over tops of cakes.

Or, this same recipe may be used by taking, instead of 1 cup of yeast, one Fleischman yeast
cake, dissolved in 1 cup of lukewarm water. Instead of sponge being set to rise the night before
the day on which the cakes are to be baked, the sponge might be set early in the morning of
the same day on which they are to be baked--exactly in the same manner as if sponge was set
the night before; when light, add eggs, sugar and balance of flour to sponge, and proceed as
before.

MUFFINS, BISCUITS, GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES

Use 1 scant cup of liquid to 1 good cup of flour, usually, for "Griddle Cake" batter. Use baking
powder with sweet milk, 1 heaping teaspoonful of Royal baking powder is equivalent to 1 teaspoonful
of cream of tartar and 1/2 teaspoonful of salaratus (baking soda) combined. Use either baking
powder or salaratus and cream of tartar combined, when using sweet milk. Use 1 teaspoonful
of baking soda to 1 pint of sour milk. Allow a larger quantity of baking powder when no eggs
are used. Have all materials cold when using baking powder. When milk is only slightly sour,
use a lesser quantity of soda and a small quantity of baking powder.

SALLY LUNN (AS AUNT SARAH MADE IT)

As "Aunt Sarah" made this, it required 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of butter,
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, flour to make a stiff batter, about 2-3/4 cups (almost three cups)
of flour sifted with 3 scant teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Served immediately when taken from
the oven, this is an excellent substitute for bread for lunch.

AUNT SARAH'S RECIPE FOR "JOHNNY CAKE"

One and one half cups of sour milk, 1/3 cup of shortening, a mixture of lard and butter, 1-1/2
tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 cups of yellow cornmeal, 1 cup of white bread flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon
of soda, dissolved in a little hot water, a little salt. Mix all together, add the stiffly-beaten
white of egg last. Pour batter in an oblong bread tin, bake about 45 minutes in a quick oven.
Granulated corn meal was used for this cake.

MARY'S BREAKFAST MUFFINS

3 cups sifted flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon sugar. 1 tablespoon butter and lard. 1/4 cake
Fleischman's yeast. 2 eggs. 2 cups boiled milk.

Place the flour, salt, sugar, butter, lard and yeast cake, dissolved in water, in a bowl and
mix well; then add the eggs and milk, which should be lukewarm. Set to rise in a warm place
over night. In the morning do not stir at all, but carefully place tablespoonfuls of the light
dough into warm, well-greased Gem pans, let stand a short time, until quite light, then bake
in a hot oven 15 to 20 minutes and serve hot for breakfast. These should be light and flakey
if made according to directions.

RICE MUFFINS

1 cup cold boiled rice. Yolk of egg and white beaten separately. 1 teaspoon sugar. 1/2 teaspoon
salt.

Put the rice, yolk of egg, sugar and salt in a bowl and beat together; then add 1 teacup sweet
milk alternately with the flour, in which has been sifted the baking powder. Add the stiffly-beaten
white of egg; bake in muffin pans in hot oven. This makes about fifteen muffins.

INDIAN PONE

Beat together, in the following order, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of white sugar, 1-1/2 cups of
sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of salt; to which add 1 cup of granulated yellow corn meal and 2
cups of white flour, sifted, with 3 scant teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder. Lastly, add
1 tablespoonful of melted (not hot) butter. Pour batter in bread pan and bake in a hot oven
25 to 30 minutes. Serve hot. Do not cut with a knife when serving, but break in pieces. When
the stock of bread is low this quickly-prepared corn bread or "pone" is a very good substitute
for bread, and was frequently baked by Mary at the farm. Mary's Aunt taught her to make a very
appetizing pudding from the left-over pieces of corn bread, which, when crumbled, filled 1
cup heaping full; over this was poured 2 cups of sweet milk; this was allowed to stand until
soft; when add 1 large egg (beaten separately), a generous tablespoonful of sugar, a couple
of tablespoonfuls of raisins, a pinch of salt; mix well, pour into a small agate pudding pan,
grate nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour or a less time. Serve with sugar
and cream.

"PFANNKUCHEN" (PANCAKES)

Four eggs, whites and yolks were beaten separately, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, were added; 1
teaspoonful of chopped parsley; mix lightly together, add salt to season. Place 2 tablespoonfuls
of butter in a fry pan. When butter has melted, pour mixture carefully into pan. When cooked,
sprinkle over a small quantity of finely minced parsley. Roll like a "jelly roll." Place on
a hot platter and serve at once, cut in slices.

"EXTRA FINE" BAKING POWDER BISCUITS

One quart of flour was measured; after being sifted, was placed in a flour sifter, with 4 heaping
teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Sift flour and baking powder
into a bowl, cut through this mixture 1 tablespoonful of butter and lard each, and mix into
a soft dough, with about 1 cup of sweet milk. 1 egg should have been added to the milk before
mixing it with the flour. Reserve a small quantity of the yolk of egg, and thin with a little
milk. Brush this over the top of biscuits before baking.

Turn the biscuit dough onto a floured bake-board. Pat out about one inch thick. Cut into rounds
with small tin cake cutter. Place a small bit of butter on each biscuit and fold together.
Place a short distance apart on baking tins and bake in a quick oven.

"FLANNEL" CAKES, MADE FROM SOUR MILK

One pint of sour milk, 2 eggs (beaten separately), a little salt, 1 large teaspoon of melted
butter, 1 teaspoonful of molasses, 1 good teaspoon of soda, sifted with enough flour to make
a smooth batter. Beat hard and then add the 2 yolks and the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs.
Bake small cakes on a hot, well-greased griddle. Serve with honey or maple syrup.

"FLANNEL" CAKES WITH BAKING POWDER

Sift together in a bowl 1 pint of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons of Royal baking powder,
mixed to a smooth batter, with about 1 pint of sweet milk. Add two yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoon
of melted butter. Lastly, add the 2 stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. 1 teaspoon of baking molasses
added makes them brown quickly. Bake on a hot griddle, well greased.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S RECIPE FOR WAFFLES

One pint of sour milk, 1 quart of sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, whites
of three eggs and yolks of two and 1 teaspoon of baking soda, and flour to make a rather thin
batter. Beat the two yolks of the eggs until light and creamy, then add 1/2 teaspoon of baking
powder, little flour, then the sour milk with soda dissolved in it, stirring all the time.
Then add 1 tablespoon of melted or softened butter, then the sweet milk; beat well; and lastly,
add the stiffly-beaten whites of the three eggs. Bake in hot waffle iron.

"CRUMB" CORN CAKES

One pint of stale bread crumbs (not fine, dried crumbs), covered with 1 pint of sour milk.
Let stand over night. In the morning add 1 tablespoon of butter, yolks of 2 eggs and a little
salt, 1/2 teaspoon of salaratus (good measure), 3/4 cup of granulated corn meal, to which add
a couple of tablespoons of bread flour, enough to fill up the cup. Stir all well together,
add the 2 stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and drop with a tablespoon on a hot, greased griddle.
Make the cakes small, as they do not turn quite as easily as do buckwheat cakes. This makes
about two dozen cakes. These are good.

"GRANDMOTHER'S" RECIPE FOR BUTTERMILK WAFFLES

Mix to a smooth batter, 4 cups of sour buttermilk, 5 cups of flour, and add 1 tablespoon of
melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon of molasses. Add the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs,
1-1/2 teaspoonfuls of baking soda, dissolved in a little hot water. Lastly, add the stiffly-beaten
whites of 3 eggs. Place about 3 tablespoonfuls of the batter on hot, well-greased waffle irons.
If buttermilk cannot be procured, sour milk may be used with good results, providing the milk
is quite sour. From this quantity of batter may be made twelve waffles. Serve with maple syrup
or honey.

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES

To 1 pint of sour milk add about 3 slices of stale bread and allow the bread to soak in this
mixture over night. In the morning beat up smoothly with 1 egg yolk, 1 teaspoonful of soda,
a pinch of salt and enough cornmeal and white flour, in equal quantities, to make a moderately
thin batter. Lastly, add the stiffly-beaten white of egg, bake on a hot griddle. Cakes should
be small in size, as when baked cakes are less readily turned than other batter cakes. These
cakes are economical and good.

NEVER FAIL "FLANNEL" CAKES

2 cups thick sour milk (quite sour). 2 tablespoonfuls sweet milk. 1 egg. 1/2 teaspoonful salt.
2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful baking soda (good measure).

Pour the milk in a bowl, add yolk of egg. Sift together flour, baking soda and salt, four times.
Beat all well together. Serve with butter and maple syrup or a substitute.

This recipe, given Mary by an old, reliable cook, was unfailing as to results, if recipe be
closely followed. The cakes should be three-fourths of an inch thick, light as a feather, and
inside, fine, like bread, not "doughy," as cakes baked from richer batters frequently are.

From this recipe was made eighteen cakes.

WAFFLES MADE FROM SWEET MILK AND BAKING POWDER

Sift together 1 quart of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 1/2 teaspoonful of salt.
Mix into a batter, a little thicker than for griddle cakes, with sweet milk; add yolks of 3
eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; lastly, stir in lightly the 3 stiffly-beaten whites
of eggs. Bake on a hot, well-greased waffle iron and serve with maple syrup.

"BUCKS COUNTY" BUCKWHEAT CAKES

About 12 o'clock noon dissolve 1 cake of yeast (the small, round or square cornmeal cakes)
in 1 pint of lukewarm water. Add to this 1 tablespoonful wheat flour, 1 tablespoonful yellow
cornmeal, and enough good buckwheat flour to make a thin batter. Set in a warm place near the
range to rise. About 6 or 7 o'clock in the evening add this sponge to 1 quart and 1 pint of
lukewarm potato water (water drained from boiled potatoes), 1 tablespoonful of mashed potatoes
added improves the cakes; add salt. They need considerable. Stir in enough buckwheat flour
to make quite a stiff batter, beat hard and set to rise, covered, in a warm place over night.
The next morning add 1 teaspoonful salaratus, dissolved in a little hot water; 1 tablespoonful
of baking molasses and a little warm milk, to thin the batter; or water will answer. The batter
should be thin enough to pour. Let stand a short time, then bake on a hot griddle. Half this
quantity will be enough for a small family. Then use only 1/2 teaspoonful salaratus. Bake golden
brown on hot griddle. Serve with honey or maple syrup. If this recipe for buckwheat cakes is
followed, you should have good cakes, but much of their excellence depends on the flour. Buy
a small quantity of flour and try it before investing in a large quantity, as you cannot make
good cakes from a poor brand of flour.

DELICIOUS CORN CAKES

One cup of sweet milk heated to boiling point; stir in 2 heaping tablespoonfuls yellow, granulated
cornmeal; add a tablespoonful of butter or lard and salt to taste. As soon as the mixture has
cooled, stir in 1 tablespoonful of wheat flour. If the batter should be too thick, stir in
enough cold, sweet milk to make it run easily from the spoon. Add 1 heaping teaspoonful of
Royal baking powder. Drop spoonfuls on hot, greased griddle, and bake. This quantity makes
cakes enough to serve three people, about sixteen small cakes. This is an economical recipe,
as no eggs are used.

RICE WAFFLES

(AS AUNT SARAH MADE THEM.)

Add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 tablespoonful lard to 1 cup of cold, boiled rice; 2 yolks
of eggs, the whites beaten separately and added last; 2 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful salt and
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, sifted together; 1 teaspoonful of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of
molasses, and enough sweet milk to make a thin batter. Bake in hot waffle irons. With these
serve either maple syrup or a mixture of sugar and cinnamon.

"GERMAN" EGG-PANCAKES (NOT CHEAP)

These truly delicious pancakes were always baked by "Aunt Sarah" when eggs were most plentiful.
For them she used, 1 cup flour, 5 fresh eggs, 1/2 cup milk.

The yolks of 5 eggs were broken into a bowl and lightly beaten. Then milk and flour were added
gradually to form a smooth batter. Lastly, the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs were added. Large
spoonfuls were dropped on a hot, well-greased griddle, forming small cakes, which were served
as soon as baked. These cakes require no baking powder. Their lightness depends entirely on
the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs.

"FRAU SCHMIDT'S" GRIDDLE CAKE RECIPE

The Professor's wife gave Mary this cheap and good recipe for griddle cakes: 1 pint of quite
sour, thick milk; beat into this thoroughly 1 even teaspoon of baking soda, 1/2 teaspoon each
of salt and sugar and 2 cups of flour, to which had been added 1 tablespoon of granulated cornmeal
and 1 rounded teaspoon of baking powder before sifting. No eggs were used by the Professor's
wife in these cakes, but Mary always added yolk of 1 egg to the cakes when she baked them.

MARY'S RECIPE FOR "CORN CAKE"

1 cup of white flour. 1/2 cup cornmeal (yellow granulated cornmeal). 1 cup of sweet milk. 2
teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1/2 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful butter.
1 tablespoonful lard. 1 egg.

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder, sugar, and add 1/2 cup of granulated, yellow cornmeal.
Mix with 1 cup milk, 1 beaten egg, and the 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and lard. Beat thoroughly.
Add a tablespoonful more of flour if not as stiff as ordinary cake batter. Pour in well-greased
bread tin and bake about 40 minutes in a hot oven. Sift twice; stir together 1/2 cup of sweet
milk and 1/2 cup of thick, sweet cream. Quickly mix all together, cutting through flour with
a knife, until a soft dough is formed, mixing and handling as little as possible. Drop spoonfuls
into warmed muffin tins and bake at once in a hot oven. Serve hot.

These are easily and quickly made, no shortening other than cream being used, and if directions
are closely followed will be flakey biscuits when baked.

Aunt Sarah was always particular to use pastry flour when using baking powder, in preference
to higher-priced "Hard Spring Wheat," which she used only for the making of bread or raised
cakes, in which yeast was used.

MARY'S MUFFINS

2 cups of flour. 3 even teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar.

Sift flour and baking powder in a bowl; add 1 tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of salt; add
the 2 yolks of eggs to the 1 cup of milk, and mix with the flour and baking powder; lastly,
add the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Place large spoonfuls of the batter in small Gem pans.
Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. These muffins are fine.

CORN MUFFINS (AS MADE BY "FRAU SCHMIDT")

2 eggs. 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 cup of granulated yellow cornmeal. 1-1/2 cups of sweet
milk. 2 cups of white flour. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 1 tablespoonful melted butter.
A pinch of salt

Beat together eggs and sugar, add milk and cornmeal and the white flour, sifted, with baking
powder and salt; add the 1 tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake 20 minutes in warmed Gem pans,
in a hot oven. Mary's Aunt taught her to utilize any left-over muffins by making a very appetizing
pudding from them called "Indian Sponge" Pudding, the recipe for which may be found among pudding
recipes.

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE (AS FRAU SCHMIDT MADE IT)

1 pint of flour. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 2-1/2 tablespoonfuls of butter or lard. 1
egg. 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Milk or water.

Sift together flour, baking powder and salt, and cut butter or lard through the flour. Add
1 beaten egg to about 1 cup of sweet milk, and add gradually to the flour, cutting through
it with a knife until a soft dough is formed, mixing and handling as little as possible. Divide
the dough into two portions, roll out one portion quickly and place on a large pie tin; spread
the top of cake with softened (not melted) butter, lay the other cake on top and bake in a
quick oven. When baked and still hot, the cakes may be easily separated without cutting; when,
place between layers, and, if liked, on top of the cake, crushed, sweetened strawberries. "Frau"
Schmidt thought a crushed banana added to the strawberries an improvement. Serve the hot shortcake
with sweet cream and sugar.

Or, the recipe for baking a plain (not rich) layer cake might be used instead of the above.
When baked and cooled, spread between the layers the following:

To the stiffly-beaten white of 1 egg, add 1 cup of sugar; beat well. Then add 1 cup of crushed
strawberries. Beat all together until the consistency of thick cream. Serve cold.

PERFECTION WAFFLES

Sift together 4 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking soda and 1 teaspoonful of salt, four times.

Separate 3 fresh eggs. Place the yolks in an earthenware mixing bowl. Beat well with a spoon.
Then add 3-1/2 cups of sour milk or sour buttermilk and 1/2 cup of sour cream, and 1 teaspoonful
of melted butter. Mix a smooth batter with the sifted flour and soda. Lastly, add the stiffly-beaten
whites of 3 eggs. Mix the batter quickly and thoroughly. Bake on a hot, well-greased waffle
iron and serve at once.

The waffles may be buttered as soon as baked and sugar sifted over, or a saucer containing
a mixture of cinnamon and sugar, or a small jug of maple syrup may be served with them. Twelve
waffles were made from this recipe.

RECIPE FOR MAKING "BAKING POWDER"

Sift together three times (through a fine sieve) 8 tablespoonfuls of cream of tartar, 4 tablespoonfuls
of baking soda (salaratus), 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. Cornstarch may be substituted for flour.
This latter ingredient is used to keep the cream of tartar and soda separate and dry, as soda
is made from salt and will absorb moisture. This recipe for making a pure baking powder was
given Mary by Fran Schmidt, who had used it for years with good results.

FRITTERS, CROQUETTES, DUMPLINGS AND CRULLERS

When cooking any article to be immersed in fat use about this proportion: 2 pounds of sweet
lard to 1 of suet, which had been previously tried out. It is cheaper, also more wholesome,
to use part suet than to use all lard. Save all pieces of left-over fat, either raw or cooked,
from steaks, roasts, bacon or ham. Cut all up into small pieces and place in a pan in the oven
until tried out, or put in a double boiler and stand over boiling water until fat is tried
out. Strain and stand aside to be used as drippings. To clarify this fat, pour boiling water
over, let cook a short time, strain and stand away in a cool place, when a cake of solid fat
will form on top, which may be readily removed and used as drippings, or it may be added to
the kettle of fat used for deep frying. Always strain fat carefully after frying croquettes,
fritters, etc. Should the frying fat become dark add to the can of soap fat the economical
housewife is saving. Return the clear-strained fat to the cook pot, cover carefully, stand
aside in a cool place, and the strained fat may be used times without number for frying. The
housewife will find it very little trouble to fry fritters, croquettes, etc., in deep fat,
if the fat is always strained immediately after using, and returned to the cook pot, kept especially
for this purpose. Stand on the hot range when required and the fat will heat in a few minutes,
and if the fat is the right temperature, food cooked in it should not be at all greasy. When
the housewife is planning to fry fritters or croquettes she should, if possible, crumb the
articles to be fried several hours before frying, and stand aside to become perfectly cold.
When the fat for frying is so hot a blue smoke arises, drop in the fritters or croquettes,
one at a time, in order not to chill the fat or plunge a frying basket, containing only a couple
of fritters at a time, in the hot fat, as too many placed in the fat at one time lowers the
temperature too quickly and causes the fritters to be greasy and soggy. To test the fat before
dropping in the fritters, if a small piece of bread is dropped in the fat and browns in about
one minute the fat is the right temperature for frying fritters, and fritters fried at the
correct temperature should be a rich brown and not at all greasy. When removing fritters from
hot fat place on coarse brown paper to absorb any remaining fat. Fritters composed of vegetables,
or oysters, should be served on a platter garnished with parsley, and fritters composed of
fruit, should have pulverized sugar sifted over them liberally. Should a small piece of bread
brown in the fat while you count twenty, fat is the correct temperature for frying croquettes,
but is too hot for frying crullers or any food not previously cooked.

KARTOFFLE BALLA (POTATO BALLS)

Boil until tender, 8 medium-sized (not pared) potatoes; when quite cold remove parings and
grate them; fry one finely-chopped onion in a little butter until a yellow-brown; add this,
also 1 egg, to the potatoes, season with salt and pepper and add flour enough to mold into
balls; use only flour enough to hold the mixture together. The chopped onion may be omitted,
and instead, brown small, dice-like pieces of bread in a little butter, shape dumplings into
balls the size of walnuts, place a teaspoonful of the browned bread crumbs in the centre of
each and add also a little chopped parsley. Drop the dumplings in salted boiling water and
cook uncovered from 15 to 20 minutes. When dumplings rise to the top they should be cooked
sufficiently, when remove from kettle with a skimmer to a platter; cut dumplings in half and
strew over them bread crumbs, browned in butter.

"BOOVA SHENKEL"

For this excellent "Pennsylvania German" dish, which I am positive has never before been published,
take 2-1/2 pounds of stewing meat (beef preferred), season with salt and pepper and cook slowly
several hours until tender.

For the filling for the circles of dough, take 12 medium-sized white potatoes, pared and thinly
sliced, steamed until tender; then add seasoning to taste of salt and pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls
of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely-minced parsley and 1 finely-chopped onion (small); lastly,
add 3 eggs, lightly beaten together, to the mixture. Cut through the flour, mix with water
into a dough as for pie crust. Roll thin, cut into about ten circles, and spread some of the
mixture on each circle of dough. Press two opposite edges together like small, three-cornered
turnover pies; drop these on to the hot meat and broth in the cook pot, closely covered. Cook
slowly from 20 to 30 minutes. Before serving the "Boova Shenkel" pour over the following:

Cut slices of stale bread into dice and brown in a pan containing 1 large tablespoonful of
butter and a couple tablespoonfuls of fat (which had been skimmed from top of broth before
"Boova Shenkel" had been put in cook pot), add about 1/2 cup of milk to diced, browned bread;
when hot, pour over the "Boova Shenkel" and serve with the meat on a large platter.

RICE BALLS WITH CHEESE

Place 2 cups of cold, boiled rice, well drained, in a bowl and add 1/2 cup of grated cheese,
a little salt, 1/4 cup flour and the stiffly-beaten white of one egg. Mix all together and
mold into balls about the size of a small egg, with a little of the flour; then roll them in
fine, dried bread crumbs, and stand away until perfectly cold. When preparing for lunch, beat
the yolk of the egg with a little milk, dip the rice balls into this, then into fine, dried
bread crumbs, drop in deep fat and fry a golden brown. Drain on brown paper and serve, garnished
with parsley.

"KARTOFFLE KLOSE"

One quart of cold, boiled, skinned potatoes, grated. (Boil without paring the day before they
are to be used, if possible.) Put into a frying pan 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 finely-minced
onion (small onion), and fry until a light brown. Remove from fire and mix with this: 2 heaped
tablespoonfuls flour, 1 tablespoonful of finely-cut parsley, 2 eggs (whites beaten separately),
and 2 slices of bread, cut fine. Add grated potatoes and bread crumbs, alternately, mixing
together lightly with a fork; add the other ingredients, season well with salt and pepper,
form into round balls the size of a walnut and drop into a stew-pan of boiling, salted water,
containing a teaspoon of butter. Do not cover the stew-pan while they are cooking. As soon
as the dumplings rise to the top, skim one out and cut in half to see if it is cooked through.
They should take from 15 to 20 minutes to cook. Skim out of the boiling water on a platter.
Cut each dumpling in half, pour over them bread crumbs browned in a pan containing a little
lard and butter, and serve. The onion may be omitted and only finely-chopped parsley used,
if desired, or use both. Or place the halved dumplings in pan containing a little lard and
butter and chopped onion (if the latter is liked), and brown on each side, then serve.

RICE CROQUETTES (AND LEMON SAUCE)

Boil 1 cup of well-washed rice in 6 or 8 cups of rapidly-boiling water, until tender. The rice,
when cooked and drained, should fill 3 cups. Prepare a cream sauce of 1 pint of milk, 3 heaping
tablespoonfuls of flour and 2 tablespoons of butter and 2 egg yolks. Stir in 3 cups of flaky,
cooked rice, while rice is still hot. When the mixture has cooled, mold into small cone shapes
with the hands, stand aside until perfectly cold. Dip the croquettes into the whites of eggs,
then roll them in fine, dried bread crumbs and fry in deep fat. If a cube of bread browns in
the fat in a little longer time than a half minute, the fat is the right temperature. Eighteen
croquettes were made from this quantity of rice.

Lemon Sauce--To serve with rice croquettes, cream together 1/2 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful
of butter, 1 egg, 2 cups of boiling water was added and all cooked together until the mixture
thickened. When cooled slightly add the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Serve in a separate
bowl, and pass with the croquettes.

CORN OYSTERS

Slice off tips of kernels from cobs of corn and scrape down corn-pulp from cobb with a knife.
To 1 pint of pulp add 2 eggs, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 1/2 teaspoonful of salt and
a pinch of cayenne pepper and of black pepper; add the 2 yolks of eggs, then stir in lightly
the stiffly-beaten white of eggs and flour. Fry in only enough butter to prevent them sticking
to the pan. Drop into pan by spoonfuls size of an ordinary fried oyster, brown on both sides
and serve hot.

BANANA FRITTERS

From one banana was made 4 fritters. The banana was halved, cut lengthwise and then cut cross-wise.
The batter will do for all fruits, clams, corn or oysters. Make a sauce of the liquor, mixed
with same quantity of milk, with a tablespoon of butter added, chopped parsley and flour to
thicken. When making oyster or clam fritters use same rule as for fruit fritters, using clam
juice and milk instead of all milk.

For the "fritter batter," sift together 1 pint of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and a
pinch of salt. Stir slowly into it a pint of milk, then the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and,
lastly, the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Beat hard for a few minutes and fry at once in smoking
hot fat. Orange sections make delicious fritters, or halves of fresh or canned peaches may be used.

Allow the bananas to stand one-quarter hour in a dish containing a small quantity of lemon
juice and sugar before putting them in the batter. Lay the slices of bananas or sections of
orange in the batter, then take up a tablespoonful of the batter with one slice of banana for
each fritter, drop into hot fat one at a time, and fry a golden brown. Sift pulverized sugar
over and serve hot. If a small piece of bread browns in one minute in the fat it is the right
temperature to fry any previously uncooked food.

PARSNIP FRITTERS

Scrape and boil 5 or 6 parsnips in salted water until tender and drain. If old parsnips, cut
out the centre, as it is tough and woody. Mash parsnips fine, add 1 egg yolk (white beaten
separately), and added last a little salt, 1 large tablespoonful flour, 1/4 teaspoonful baking
powder, mold into small cakes, dredge with flour, and fry quickly to a golden brown in a tablespoonful
of butter and one of drippings. Serve at once.

AUNT SARAH'S "SCHNITZ AND KNOPF"

This is an old-fashioned "Pennsylvania German" favorite. The end of a ham bone, containing
a very little meat, was placed in a large kettle with a small quantity of water, with "Schnitz,"
or sliced, sweet, dried apples, which had been dried without removing the parings. When the
apples were cooked tender in the ham broth; dumplings, composed of the following, were lightly
dropped on top of the apples and broth and cooked, closely covered, from 15 to 20 minutes.
Do not uncover kettle the first ten minutes. When dumplings have cooked place them with the
"Schnitz" on a large platter, and serve at once.

A VERY OLD RECIPE FOR DUMPLINGS, OR "KNOPF"

One and one-half quarts of flour was sifted with 2-1/2 tablespoonfuls of Royal baking powder,
1 teaspoonful of butter was cut through the flour in small bits, 1 egg was beaten and enough
milk or water added to the egg to mix the flour into quite a soft dough. Sometimes instead
of molding the dough into balls large spoonfuls were placed over the apples. Aunt Sarah had
used this recipe for many years. This is a very old recipe, and from it was made a larger quantity
than ordinary housekeepers usually require. Half the quantity, about 1-1/2 pints of flour to
1-1/4 tablespoonfuls of baking powder, mixed according to the directions given in the first
part of recipe, would be about the correct proportions for a family of ordinary size.

Aunt Sarah frequently substituted sour cherries and a teaspoonful of butter was added instead
of ham and "Schnitz." Dumplings prepared from this recipe may be dropped on stewed chicken
and broth and cooked or steamed, make an excellent pot-pie. Should there be more dough mixed
than required for dumplings, place a panful in the oven and bake as biscuits. More baking powder
is required when dough is steamed or boiled than when baked in the oven.

"KARTOFFLE KUKLEIN" (POTATO FRITTERS OR BOOFERS)

Place in a bowl 2 cups grated, pared, raw potatoes; drain off any liquid formed, then add 1
small onion, also grated; large egg or 2 small eggs, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful chopped
parsley, 1/4 teaspoonful baking powder (good measure), and a couple tablespoonfuls of flour
to thicken just enough to make the fritters hold together; then drop by spoonfuls in deep,
hot fat, and fry a rich brown. The fritters form into odd shapes a trifle larger than a fried
oyster, when dropped in the fat.

Should the fritter batter separate when dropped in the fat, add more flour, but if too much
flour is added they are not as good as when a lesser quantity is used. Drain the fritters on
brown paper and garnish the platter upon which they are served with parsley. Mary's Uncle was
very fond of these fritters. He preferred them to fried oysters, and always called them "potato
boofers." I would not answer for the wholesomeness of these fritters. In fact, I do not think
any fried food particularly wholesome.

ROSETTES, WAFERS AND ROSENKUCHEN (AS MADE BY FRAU SCHMIDT)

Prepare a batter from the following:

1 cup of sweet milk. 2 eggs. Pinch of salt. 1 cup of flour, good measure.

Gradually mix the flour with the milk to form a smooth batter, free from lumps. Add yolks,
then the slightly-beaten whites of eggs. Fasten the long handle to a wafer iron, shaped like
a cup or saucer, and stand it in hot fat, a mixture of 2/3 lard and 1/3 suet, or oil; when
heated, remove at once, and dip quickly into the batter, not allowing the batter to come over
top of the wafer iron. Then return it to the hot fat, which should cover the wafer iron, and
in about 25 or 30 seconds the wafer should be lightly browned, when the wafer may be easily
removed from the iron on to a piece of brown paper to absorb any fat which may remain. This
amount of batter should make about forty wafers. On these wafers may be served creamed oysters,
vegetables, chicken or fruit. When using the wafers as a foundation on which to serve fruit,
whipped cream is a dainty adjunct. One teaspoonful of sugar should then be added to the wafer
batter. These wafers may be kept several weeks, when by simply placing them in a hot oven a
minute before serving they will be almost as good as when freshly cooked. Or the wafers may
be served as a fritter by sifting over them pulverized sugar and cinnamon.

"BAIRISCHE DAMPFNUDELN"

These delicious Bavarian steamed dumplings are made in this manner: 1 cake of Fleischman's
compressed yeast was dissolved in a cup of lukewarm milk, sift 1 pint of flour into a bowl,
add 1 teaspoonful of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix the flour with another cup of lukewarm
milk, 1 egg and the dissolved yeast cake and milk (two cups of milk were used altogether).
Work all together thoroughly, adding gradually about 1-1/2 cups of flour to form a soft dough.
Do not mix it too stiff. Cover the bowl with a cloth; stand in a warm place until it has doubled
the original bulk. Flour the bread board and turn out dough and mold into small biscuits or
dumplings. Let these rise for half an hour, butter a pudding pan and place dumplings in it,
brushing tops with melted butter. Pour milk in the pan around the dumplings to about two-thirds
the depth of the dumplings; set pan on inverted pie tin in oven and bake a light brown. Serve
with any desired sauce or stewed fruit. Or, after the shaped dough has raised, drop it in a
large pot of slightly-salted boiling water, allowing plenty of room for them to swell and puff
up, and boil continuously, closely covered, for 20 minutes. This quantity makes about 30 small
dumplings. Should you not wish so many, half the quantity might be molded out, placed in a
greased pie tin, and when light, which takes half an hour, bake in a moderately hot oven, and
you will have light biscuits for lunch.

The thrifty German Hausfraus make fritters of everything imaginable, and sometimes unimaginable.
Mary was told one day by a German neighbor how she prepared a fritter she called:

"HELLER BLUTHER KUKLEIN"

She gathered elderberry blossoms, rinsed off the dust, and when free from moisture dipped the
blossoms into fritter batter, holding the stem ends, then dropped them into hot fat, and when
golden brown, drained a minute on coarse, brown paper before serving, dusted them with powdered
sugar; cinnamon may also be dusted over if liked. Mary pronounced them "fine," after tasteing,
and said: "They certainly are a novelty." Perhaps something like this suggested the Rosette
Iron, as it is somewhat similar.

APYL KUKLEIN (APPLE FRITTERS)

Pare and core 4 large tart apples. Cut each apple into about 4 round slices and allow the sliced
apples to lie a couple of hours in a dish containing 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, mixed with
a half teaspoonful of cinnamon and a half teaspoonful of sugar. Drain the sliced apples, then
a few at a time should be dropped in the following batter, composed of: 1 cup of flour sifted
with 1/2 teaspoonful of Royal baking powder, 1/4 teaspoonful of salt, add the yolks of 2 eggs
and 1 cup of milk to form a smooth batter, then add the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Fry
light brown, in deep, hot fat, and sift over powdered sugar. "Fried Apples" are an appetizing
garnish for pork chops; the apples should be cored, not pared, but should be sliced, and when
cut the slices should resemble round circles, with holes in the centre. Allow the sliced apples
to remain a short time in a mixture of cinnamon and brandy, dry on a napkin, and fry in a pan,
containing a couple of tablespoonfuls of sweet drippings and butter.

DUMPLINGS MADE FROM "BREAD SPONGE"

Aunt Sarah's raised dumplings from bread sponge were greatly relished at the farm.

When bread sponge, which had been set to rise early in the morning, and all flour necessary
for loaves of bread had been added and loaves were being shaped to place in bread tins, Aunt
Sarah reserved an amount of sponge sufficient for one loaf of bread, added a little extra salt,
shaped them into small balls, size of a lemon, placed them on a well-floured board some distance
apart to raise; when light (at 12 o'clock, if the dinner hour was 12.20), she carefully dropped
the light balls of dough into a large pot of rapidly boiling, slightly salted water, covered
closely, and boiled about 20 minutes, (Do not have more than one layer of the dumplings in
cook pot, and do not place too close together; allow room for them to expand.)

Test by tearing one apart with a fork. Serve at once, and serve with a roast, to be eaten with
gravy, with butter, or they may be eaten as a dessert, with jelly or maple syrup.

Aunt Sarah frequently added an equal quantity of fine, dried bread crumbs and flour and a little
extra salt to a thin batter of bread sponge (before all the flour required for bread had been
added), made about as stiff a dough as for ordinary loaves of bread; molded them into balls.
When sufficiently raised, boiled them either in water or meat broth in the same manner as she
prepared dumplings; made only of flour.

This is a small economy, using bread crumbs in place of flour, and these are delicious if prepared
according to directions. Remember to have a large quantity of rapidly boiling water in which
to cook the dumplings, not to allow water to stop boiling an instant and to keep cook pot closely
covered for 20 minutes before removing one, and breaking apart to see if cooked through. These
are particularly nice served with stewed apricots.

"LEBER KLOSE" OR LIVER DUMPLINGS

Boil a good-sized soup bone for several hours in plenty of water, to which add salt and pepper
to taste and several small pieces of celery and sprigs of parsley to flavor stock. Strain the
broth or stock into a good-sized cook pot and set on stove to keep hot.

For the liver dumplings, scrape a half pound of raw beef liver with a knife, until fine and
free from all veins, etc. Place the scraped liver in a large bowl, cut three or four good-sized
onions into dice, fry a light brown, in a pan containing 1 tablespoonful of lard and butter
mixed. Cut into dice 3/4 to a whole loaf of bread (about 2 quarts). Beat 2 eggs together, add
1 cup of sweet milk, season well with salt and pepper, and mix all together with 1 large cup
of flour. If not moist enough to form into balls when mixed together, add more milk. Keep the
mixture as soft as possible or the dumplings will be heavy. Flour the hands when shaping the
balls, which should be the size of a shelled walnut. Stand the pot containing stock on the
front of the stove, where it will boil, and when boiling, drop in the dumplings and boil, uncovered,
for 15 minutes. When cooked, take the dumplings carefully from the stock on to a large platter,
pour the stock over the dumplings and serve.

These are excellent, but a little troublesome to make. One-half this quantity would serve a
small family for lunch.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S "OLD RECIPE FOR SCHNITZ AND KNOPF"

Place a cook pot on the range, containing the end piece of a small ham; partly cover with water.
This should be done about three hours before serving, changing the water once. Soak sweet,
unpared, sliced, dried apples over night in cold water. In the morning cook the dried apples
(or schnitz) in a small quantity of the ham broth, in a separate stew-pan, until tender. Remove
ham from broth one-half hour before serving. Sweeten the broth with a small quantity of brown
sugar, and when the broth commences to boil add raised dumplings of dough, which had been shaped
with the hands into round balls about the size of an ordinary biscuit. Cook 25 minutes. Do
not uncover the cook-pot after the dumplings have been dropped into the broth until they have
cooked the required length of time. When the dumplings have cooked a sufficient time carefully
remove to a warm platter containing the cooked apple schnitz. Thicken the broth remaining with
a little flour, to the consistency of cream. Pour over the dumplings and serve at once.

Dumplings--At 9.30 in the evening set a sponge consisting of 1 cup of lukewarm milk, 1 tablespoonful
sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 egg, 3/4 of an yeast cake, add flour enough to form a sponge
(as stiff as may be stirred with a mixing spoon). Set to raise in a warm place over night.
In the morning add more flour to the risen sponge until nearly as stiff as for bread. Form
into round dumplings, place on a well-floured bake-board to rise slowly. Twenty-five minutes
before serving drop dumplings into the hot broth in a large cook-pot.

There should be only one layer of dumplings, otherwise they will be heavy.

"BROD KNODEL," OR BREAD DUMPLINGS

3 cups of stale bread (cut like dice). 3/4 cup of flour. 1/2 teaspoonful baking powder. 3/4
cup milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley. 1/2 teaspoonful
finely-minced onion (if liked). Pinch of salt.

Place two cups of diced bread in a bowl and pour over 3/4 cup of milk. (Reserve 1 cup of diced
bread, which brown in 1 tablespoonful of butter, to be added to the mixture later.) Allow milk
and bread to stand 10 or 15 minutes; then add 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, 1 egg, flour
and baking powder, and salt; fried, diced bread and parsley, and mix all together. With well-floured
hands form the mixture into balls size of a walnut, and drop at once into rapidly boiling salted
water and cook 15 minutes. Stew pan should be closely covered. When cooked, remove to platter
with perforated skimmer, and serve at once, or drop dumplings into a pan containing 1 tablespoonful
of melted butter, and brown on all sides before serving.

"GERMAN" POT PIE

To serve a family of six or seven, place 2 pounds of beef and 4 pork chops, cut in small pieces,
in a cook-pot. Season with a little chopped onion, pepper and salt. This should be done about
three or four hours before dinner. One hour before serving prepare the dough for pot pie. Pare
white potatoes, slice and dry on a napkin, sift 2 cups of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder,
pinch of salt, cut through the sifted flour, 1 level tablespoonful of shortening. Moisten dough
with 1 egg and enough milk to make dough stiff enough to handle. (Almost 1 cup of milk, including
the egg.) Cut off a small piece of dough, size of a small teacup, roll thin and take up plenty
of flour on both sides. Take up all flour possible. Cut this dough into four portions or squares.
Have the meat more than covered with water, as water cooks away.

Place a layer of potatoes on meat (well seasoned), then the pared potatoes and small pieces
of dough alternately, never allowing pieces of dough to lap; place potatoes between. Roll the
last layer out in one piece, size of a pie plate, and cover top layer of potatoes with it.
Cover closely and cook three-quarters of an hour from the time it commences to boil. Then turn
out carefully on a platter and serve at once.

"ZWETCHEN DAMPFNUDELN" (PRUNE DUMPLINGS)

In the evening a sponge was prepared with yeast for bread. All the flour required to stiffen
the dough for loaves of bread being added at this time. The bread sponge was stood in a warm
place to rise over night. In the morning, when shaping the dough into loaves, stand aside about
one pint of the bread dough. Later in the morning form the pint of dough into small balls or
dumplings, place on a well-floured bake board and stand in a warm place until doubled in size.
Then drop the dumplings into a cook pot containing stewed prunes, a small quantity of water,
a little sugar and lemon peel, if liked. The dried prunes had been soaked over night in cold
water, and allowed to simmer on the range in the morning. The prune juice should be hot when
the dumplings are added. Cook dumplings one-half hour in a closely covered cook-pot and turn
out carefully on to a warmed platter, surrounded by prune juice and prunes. Drop with a spoon
on a well-greased griddle. The cakes should be the size of a silver half dollar. Bake brown
on either side and serve hot. These should not be fried as quickly as griddle cakes are fried,
as the corn might then not be thoroughly cooked.

"MOULDASHA" (PARSLEY PIES)

Mash and season with butter and salt half a dozen boiled white potatoes, add a little grated
onion and chopped parsley. Sift together in a bowl 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder
and a little salt. Add a small quantity of milk to one egg if not enough liquid to mix into
a soft dough. Roll out like pie crust, handling as little as possible. Cut into small squares,
fill with the potato mixture, turn opposite corners over and pinch together all around like
small, three-cornered pies. Drop the small triangular pies into boiling, salted water a few
minutes, or until they rise to top; then skim out and brown them in a pan containing a tablespoonful
each of butter and lard. I have known some Germans who called these "Garden Birds." Stale bread
crumbs, browned in butter, may be sprinkled over these pies when served. Serve hot.

These are really pot pie or dumplings with potato filling. Mary's Aunt always called these
"Mouldasha." Where she obtained the name or what its meaning is, the writer is unable to say.

INEXPENSIVE DROP CRULLERS

Cream together 1 cup sugar and 1 egg, then add one cup of milk alternately with 2 cups of flour,
sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add 1/2 teaspoonful of vanilla and enough flour
to make a stiff batter.

Take about 1/2 a teaspoonful of the batter at a time and drop into boiling hot fat, and brown
on both sides; then drain on coarse, brown paper and, when cool, dust with pulverized sugar.
These cakes are cheap and good, and as no shortening is used are not rich. Do not make cakes
too large, as they then will not cook through readily.

BATTER BAKED WITH GRAVY

The Professor's wife gave Mary this recipe, given her by an Englishwoman. The recipe was liked
by her family, being both economical and good. When serving roast beef for dinner, before thickening
the gravy, take out about half a cup of liquid from the pan and stand in a cool place until
the day following. Reheat the roast remaining from previous day, pour the half cup of liquid
in an iron fry pan, and when hot pour the following batter in the pan with the fat and bake
in a moderately hot oven about 25 minutes. Or the batter may be poured in pan about 25 minutes
before meat has finished roasting.

The batter was composed of 1 cup of flour, sifted with 1 small teaspoonful of baking powder
and 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, mixed smooth with 1 cup of sweet milk. Add 2 well-beaten eggs.
When baked cut in small pieces, surround the meat on platter, serve instead of potatoes with
roast. The addition of baked dough extends the meat flavor and makes possible the serving of
a smaller amount of meat at a meal.

"GERMAN" SOUR CREAM CRULLERS

One cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful soda, pinch
of salt. About 3-1/2 cups of flour. (Use extra flour to dredge the bake-board when rolling
out crullers.) This is a very good recipe for crullers, in which the economical housewife may
use the cup of cream which has turned sour. This necessitates using less shortening, which
otherwise would be required. Cream together sugar, butter, add yolks of eggs. Dissolve the
soda in a small quantity of sour cream. Mix cream alternately with the flour. Add pinch of
salt. Add just enough flour to roll out. Cut with small doughnut cutter with hole in centre.
Fry in hot fat. Dust with pulverized sugar.

"GRANDMOTHER'S" DOUGHNUTS

Cream together 1 cup sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls butter, 1/2 a grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt.
Add 2 eggs, beaten without separating yolks from whites, and 1 cup of sweet milk. Then add
4 cups of flour (or 1 quart), prepared as follows: Measure 1 quart of unsifted flour and sift
twice with 2 generous teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Use this to thicken the batter sufficiently
to roll out and use about 1 extra cup of flour to flour the bake-board. Turn out one-half the
quantity of dough on to a half cup of flour on the bake-board. Roll out dough half an inch
thick. Cut out with round cutter, with hole in centre, and drop into deep, hot fat. Use 2/3
lard and 1/3 suet for deep frying; it is cheaper and more wholesome than to use all lard. When
fat is hot enough to brown a small piece of bread while you count 60, it is the correct temperature
for doughnuts. The dough should be as soft as can be handled. Never use fat as hot for frying
doughnuts as that used for frying croquettes, but should the fat not be hot the doughnuts would
be greasy. These doughnuts are excellent if made according to recipe.

FINE "DROP CRULLERS"

Cream together 1-1/2 cups pulverized sugar, 3 eggs, add 1 cup sweet milk, 1/2 teaspoonful of
salt, 3-1/2 cups of flour, sifted after measuring with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Drop
teaspoonfuls of this carefully into boiling fat.

They should resemble small balls when fried. Batter must not be too stiff, but about the consistency
of a cup-cake batter.

Boil them in a mixture of cinnamon and sugar when all have been fried.

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS

