Itwas Waverley's custom sometimes to ride a little apart from the main body, to look at any
object of curiosity which occurred on the march. They were now in Lancashire, when, attracted
by a castellated old hall, he left the squadron for half an hour to take a survey and slight
sketch of it. As he returned down the avenue he was met by Ensign Maccombich. This man had
contracted a sort of regard for Edward since the day of his first seeing him at Tully-Veolan
and introducing him to the Highlands. He seemed to loiter, as if on purpose to meet with our
hero. Yet, as he passed him, he only approached his stirrup and pronounced the single word
'Beware!' and then walked swiftly on, shunning all further communication.

Edward, somewhat surprised at this hint, followed with his eyes the course of Evan, who speedily
disappeared among the trees. His servant, Alick Polwarth, who was in attendance, also looked
after the Highlander, and then riding up close to his master, said,--

'The ne'er be in me, sir, if I think you're safe amang thae Highland rinthereouts.'

'What do you mean, Alick?' said Waverley.

'The Mac-Ivors, sir, hae gotten it into their heads that ye hae affronted their young leddy,
Miss Flora; and I hae heard mae than ane say, they wadna tak muckle to mak a black-cock o'
ye; and ye ken weel eneugh there's mony o' them wadna mind a bawbee the weising a ball through
the Prince himsell, an the Chief gae them the wink, or whether he did or no, if they thought
it a thing that would please him when it was dune.'

Waverley, though confident that Fergus Mac-Ivor was incapable of such treachery, was by no
means equally sure of the forbearance of his followers. He knew that, where the honour of the
Chief or his family was supposed to be touched, the happiest man would be he that could first
avenge the stigma; and he had often heard them quote a proverb, 'That the best revenge was
the most speedy and most safe.' Coupling this with the hint of Evan, he judged it most prudent
to set spurs to his horse and ride briskly back to the squadron. Ere he reached the end of
the long avenue, however, a ball whistled past him, and the report of a pistol was heard.

'It was that deevil's buckle, Callum Beg,' said Alick; 'I saw him whisk away through amang
the reises.'

Edward, justly incensed at this act of treachery, galloped out of the avenue, and observed
the battalion of Mac-Ivor at some distance moving along the common in which it terminated.
He also saw an individual running very fast to join the party; this he concluded was the intended
assassin, who, by leaping an enclosure, might easily make a much shorter path to the main body
than he could find on horseback. Unable to contain himself, he commanded Alick to go to the
Baron of Bradwardine, who was at the head of his regiment about half a mile in front, and acquaint
him with what had happened. He himself immediately rode up to Fergus's regiment. The Chief
himself was in the act of joining them. He was on horseback, having returned from waiting on
the Prince. On perceiving Edward approaching, he put his horse in motion towards him.

'Colonel Mac-Ivor,' said Waverley, without any farther salutation, 'I have to inform you that
one of your people has this instant fired at me from a lurking-place.'

'As that,' answered Mac-Ivor, 'excepting the circumstance of a lurking-place, is a pleasure
which I presently propose to myself, I should be glad to know which of my clansmen dared to
anticipate me.'

'I shall certainly be at your command whenever you please; the gentleman who took your office
upon himself is your page there, Callum Beg.'

'Stand forth from the ranks, Callum! Did you fire at Mr. Waverley?'

'No,' answered the unblushing Callum.

'You did,' said Alick Polwarth, who was already returned, having met a trooper by whom he despatched
an account of what was going forward to the Baron of Bradwardine, while he himself returned
to his master at full gallop, neither sparing the rowels of his spurs nor the sides of his
horse. 'You did; I saw you as plainly as I ever saw the auld kirk at Coudingham.'

'You lie,' replied Callum, with his usual impenetrable obstinacy. The combat between the knights
would certainly, as in the days of chivalry, have been preceded by an encounter between the
squires (for Alick was a stout-hearted Merseman, and feared the bow of Cupid far more than
a Highlander's dirk or claymore), but Fergus, with his usual tone of decision, demanded Callum's
pistol. The cock was down, the pan and muzzle were black with the smoke; it had been that instant
fired.

'Take that,' said Fergus, striking the boy upon the head with the heavy pistol-butt with his
whole force--'take that for acting without orders, and lying to disguise it.' Callum received
the blow without appearing to flinch from it, and fell without sign of life. 'Stand still,
upon your lives!' said Fergus to the rest of the clan; 'I blow out the brains of the first
man who interferes between Mr. Waverley and me.' They stood motionless; Evan Dhu alone showed
symptoms of vexation and anxiety. Callum lay on the ground bleeding copiously, but no one ventured
to give him any assistance. It seemed as if he had gotten his death-blow.

'And now for you, Mr. Waverley; please to turn your horse twenty yards with me upon the common.'
Waverley complied; and Fergus, confronting him when they were a little way from the line of
march, said, with great affected coolness, 'I could not but wonder, sir, at the fickleness
of taste which you were pleased to express the other day. But it was not an angel, as you justly
observed, who had charms for you, unless she brought an empire for her fortune. I have now
an excellent commentary upon that obscure text.'

'I am at a loss even to guess at your meaning, Colonel Mac-Ivor, unless it seems plain that
you intend to fasten a quarrel upon me.'

'Your affected ignorance shall not serve you, sir. The Prince--the Prince himself has acquainted
me with your manoeuvres. I little thought that your engagements with Miss Bradwardine were
the reason of your breaking off your intended match with my sister. I suppose the information
that the Baron had altered the destination of his estate was quite a sufficient reason for
slighting your friend's sister and carrying off your friend's mistress.'

'Did the Prince tell you I was engaged to Miss Bradwardine?' said Waverley. 'Impossible.'

'He did, sir,' answered Mac-Ivor; 'so, either draw and defend yourself or resign your pretensions
to the lady.' 'This is absolute madness,' exclaimed Waverley, 'or some strange mistake!'

'O! no evasion! draw your sword!' said the infuriated Chieftain, his own already unsheathed.

'Must I fight in a madman's quarrel?'

'Then give up now, and forever, all pretensions to Miss Bradwardine's hand.'

'What title have you,' cried Waverley, utterly losing command of himself--'what title have
you, or any man living, to dictate such terms to me?' And he also drew his sword.

At this moment the Baron of Bradwardine, followed by several of his troop, came up on the spur,
some from curiosity, others to take part in the quarrel which they indistinctly understood
had broken out between the Mac-Ivors and their corps. The clan, seeing them approach, put themselves
in motion to support their Chieftain, and a scene of confusion commenced which seamed likely
to terminate in bloodshed. A hundred tongues were in motion at once. The Baron lectured, the
Chieftain stormed, the Highlanders screamed in Gaelic, the horsemen cursed and swore in Lowland
Scotch. At length matters came to such a pass that the Baron threatened to charge the Mac-Ivors
unless they resumed their ranks, and many of them, in return, presented their firearms at him
and the other troopers. The confusion was privately fostered by old Ballenkeiroch, who made
no doubt that his own day of vengeance was arrived, when, behold! a cry arose of 'Room! make
way! place a Monseigneur! place a Monseigneur!' This announced the approach of the Prince,
who came up with a party of Fitz-James's foreign dragoons that acted as his body-guard. His
arrival produced some degree of order. The Highlanders reassumed their ranks, the cavalry fell
in and formed squadron, and the Baron and Chieftain were silent.

The Prince called them and Waverley before him. Having heard the original cause of the quarrel
through the villainy of Callum Beg, he ordered him into custody of the provost-marshal for
immediate execution, in the event of his surviving the chastisement inflicted by his Chieftain.
Fergus, however, in a tone betwixt claiming a right and asking a favour, requested he might
be left to his disposal, and promised his punishment should be exemplary. To deny this might
have seemed to encroach on the patriarchal authority of the Chieftains, of which they were
very jealous, and they were not persons to be disobliged. Callum was therefore left to the
justice of his own tribe.

The Prince next demanded to know the new cause of quarrel between Colonel Mac-Ivor and Waverley.
There was a pause. Both gentlemen found the presence of the Baron of Bradwardine (for by this
time all three had approached the Chevalier by his command) an insurmountable barrier against
entering upon a subject where the name of his daughter must unavoidably be mentioned. They
turned their eyes on the ground, with looks in which shame and embarrassment were mingled with
displeasure. The Prince, who had been educated amongst the discontented and mutinous spirits
of the court of St. Germains, where feuds of every kind were the daily subject of solicitude
to the dethroned sovereign, had served his apprenticeship, as old Frederick of Prussia would
have said, to the trade of royalty. To promote or restore concord among his followers was indispensable.
Accordingly he took his measures.

'Monsieur de Beaujeu!'

'Monseigneur!' said a very handsome French cavalry officer who was in attendance.

'Ayez la bonte d'aligner ces montagnards la, ainsi que la cavalerie, s'il vous plait, et de
les remettre a la marche. Vous parlez si bien l'Anglois, cela ne vous donneroit pas beaucoup
de peine.'

'Ah! pas du tout, Monseigneur,' replied Mons. le Comte de Beaujeu, his head bending down to
the neck of his little prancing highly- managed charger. Accordingly he piaffed away, in high
spirits and confidence, to the head of Fergus's regiment, although understanding not a word
of Gaelic and very little English.

'Messieurs les sauvages Ecossois--dat is, gentilmans savages, have the goodness d'arranger vous.'

The clan, comprehending the order more from the gesture than the words, and seeing the Prince
himself present, hastened to dress their ranks.

'Ah! ver well! dat is fort bien!' said the Count de Beaujeu. 'Gentilmans sauvages! mais, tres
bien. Eh bien! Qu'est ce que vous appelez visage, Monsieur?' (to a lounging trooper who stood
by him). 'Ah, oui! face. Je vous remercie, Monsieur. Gentilshommes, have de goodness to make
de face to de right par file, dat is, by files. Marsh! Mais, tres bien; encore, Messieurs;
il faut vous mettre a la marche. ... Marchez done, au nom de Dieu, parceque j'ai oublie le
mot Anglois; mais vous etes des braves gens, et me comprenez tres bien.'

The Count next hastened to put the cavalry in motion. 'Gentilmans cavalry, you must fall in.
Ah! par ma foi, I did not say fall off! I am a fear de little gross fat gentilman is moche
hurt. Ah, mon Dieu! c'est le Commissaire qui nous a apporte les premieres nouvelles de ce maudit
fracas. Je suis trop fache, Monsieur!'

But poor Macwheeble, who, with a sword stuck across him, and a white cockade as large as a
pancake, now figured in the character of a commissary, being overturned in the bustle occasioned
by the troopers hastening to get themselves in order in the Prince's presence, before he could
rally his galloway, slunk to the rear amid the unrestrained laughter of the spectators.

'Eh bien, Messieurs, wheel to de right. Ah! dat is it! Eh, Monsieur de Bradwardine, ayez la
bonte de vous mettre a la tete de votre regiment, car, par Dieu, je n'en puis plus!'

The Baron of Bradwardine was obliged to go to the assistance of Monsieur de Beaujeu, after
he had fairly expended his few English military phrases. One purpose of the Chevalier was thus
answered. The other he proposed was, that in the eagerness to hear and comprehend commands
issued through such an indistinct medium in his own presence, the thoughts of the soldiers
in both corps might get a current different from the angry channel in which they were flowing
at the time.

Charles Edward was no sooner left with the Chieftain and Waverley, the rest of his attendants
being at some distance, than he said, 'If I owed less to your disinterested friendship, I could
be most seriously angry with both of you for this very extraordinary and causeless broil, at
a moment when my father's service so decidedly demands the most perfect unanimity. But the
worst of my situation is, that my very best friends hold they have liberty to ruin themselves,
as well as the cause they are engaged in, upon the slightest caprice.'

Both the young men protested their resolution to submit every difference to his arbitration.
'Indeed,' said Edward, 'I hardly know of what I am accused. I sought Colonel Mac-Ivor merely
to mention to him that I had narrowly escaped assassination at the hand of his immediate dependent,
a dastardly revenge which I knew him to be incapable of authorising. As to the cause for which
he is disposed to fasten a quarrel upon me, I am ignorant of it, unless it be that he accuses
me, most unjustly, of having engaged the affections of a young lady in prejudice of his pretensions.'

'If there is an error,' said the Chieftain, 'it arises from a conversation which I held this
morning with his Royal Highness himself.'

'With me?' said the Chevalier; 'how can Colonel Mac-Ivor have so far misunderstood me?'

He then led Fergus aside, and, after five minutes' earnest conversation, spurred his horse
towards Edward. 'Is it possible-- nay, ride up, Colonel, for I desire no secrets--is it possible,
Mr. Waverley, that I am mistaken in supposing that you are an accepted lover of Miss Bradwardine?
a fact of which I was by circumstances, though not by communication from you, so absolutely
convinced that I alleged it to Vich Ian Vohr this morning as a reason why, without offence
to him, you might not continue to be ambitious of an alliance which, to an unengaged person,
even though once repulsed, holds out too many charms to be lightly laid aside.'

'Your Royal Highness,' said Waverley,'must have founded on circumstances altogether unknown
to me, when you did me the distinguished honour of supposing me an accepted lover of Miss Bradwardine.
I feel the distinction implied in the supposition, but I have no title to it. For the rest,
my confidence in my own merit is too justly slight to admit of my hoping for success in any
quarter after positive rejection.'

The Chevalier was silent for a moment, looking steadily at them both, and then said, 'Upon
my word, Mr. Waverley, you are a less happy man than I conceived I had very good reason to
believe you. But now, gentlemen, allow me to be umpire in this matter, not as Prince Regent
but as Charles Stuart, a brother adventurer with you in the same gallant cause. Lay my pretensions
to be obeyed by you entirely out of view, and consider your own honour, and how far it is well
or becoming to give our enemies the advantage and our friends the scandal of showing that,
few as we are, we are not united. And forgive me if I add, that the names of the ladies who
have been mentioned crave more respect from us all than to be made themes of discord.'

He took Fergus a little apart and spoke to him very earnestly for two or three minutes, and
then returning to Waverley, said, 'I believe I have satisfied Colonel Mac-Ivor that his resentment
was founded upon a misconception, to which, indeed, I myself gave rise; and I trust Mr. Waverley
is too generous to harbour any recollection of what is past when I assure him that such is
the case. You must state this matter properly to your clan, Vich Ian Vohr, to prevent a recurrence
of their precipitate violence.' Fergus bowed. 'And now, gentlemen, let me have the pleasure
to see you shake hands.'

They advanced coldly, and with measured steps, each apparently reluctant to appear most forward
in concession. They did, however, shake hands, and parted, taking a respectful leave of the
Chevalier.

Charles Edward [Footnote: See Note 12.] then rode to the head of the MacIvors, threw himself
from his horse, begged a drink out of old Ballenkeiroch's cantine, and marched about half a
mile along with them, inquiring into the history and connexions of Sliochd nan Ivor, adroitly
using the few words of Gaelic he possessed, and affecting a great desire to learn it more thoroughly.
He then mounted his horse once more, and galloped to the Baron's cavalry, which was in front,
halted them, and examined their accoutrements and state of discipline; took notice of the principal
gentlemen, and even of the cadets; inquired after their ladies, and commended their horses;
rode about an hour with the Baron of Bradwardine, and endured three long stories about Field-Marshal
the Duke of Berwick.

'Ah, Beaujeu, mon cher ami,' said he, as he returned to his usual place in the line of march,
'que mon metier de prince errant est ennuyant, par fois. Mais, courage! c'est le grand jeu,
apres tout.'

CHAPTER LIX

A SKIRMISH

Theeader need hardly be reminded that, after a council of war held at Derby on the 5th of December,
the Highlanders relinquished their desperate attempt to penetrate farther into England, and,
greatly to the dissatisfaction of their young and daring leader, positively determined to return
northward. They commenced their retreat accordingly, and, by the extreme celerity of their
movements, outstripped the motions of the Duke of Cumberland, who now pursued them with a very
large body of cavalry.

This retreat was a virtual resignation of their towering hopes. None had been so sanguine as
Fergus MacIvor; none, consequently, was so cruelly mortified at the change of measures. He
argued, or rather remonstrated, with the utmost vehemence at the council of war; and, when
his opinion was rejected, shed tears of grief and indignation. From that moment his whole manner
was so much altered that he could scarcely have been recognised for the same soaring and ardent
spirit, for whom the whole earth seemed too narrow but a week before. The retreat had continued
for several days, when Edward, to his surprise, early on the 12th of December, received a visit
from the Chieftain in his quarters, in a hamlet about half- way between Shap and Penrith.

Having had no intercourse with the Chieftain since their rupture, Edward waited with some anxiety
an explanation of this unexpected visit; nor could he help being surprised, and somewhat shocked,
with the change in his appearance. His eye had lost much of its fire; his cheek was hollow,
his voice was languid, even his gait seemed less firm and elastic than it was wont; and his
dress, to which he used to be particularly attentive, was now carelessly flung about him. He
invited Edward to walk out with him by the little river in the vicinity; and smiled in a melancholy
manner when he observed him take down and buckle on his sword.

As soon as they were in a wild sequestered path by the side of the stream, the Chief broke
out--'Our fine adventure is now totally ruined, Waverley, and I wish to know what you intend
to do;--nay, never stare at me, man. I tell you I received a packet from my sister yesterday,
and, had I got the information it contains sooner, it would have prevented a quarrel which
I am always vexed when I think of. In a letter written after our dispute, I acquainted her
with the cause of it; and she now replies to me that she never had, nor could have, any purpose
of giving you encouragement; so that it seems I have acted like a madman. Poor Flora! she writes
in high spirits; what a change will the news of this unhappy retreat make in her state of mind!'

Waverley, who was really much affected by the deep tone of melancholy with which Fergus spoke,
affectionately entreated him to banish from his remembrance any unkindness which had arisen
between them, and they once more shook hands, but now with sincere cordiality. Fergus again
inquired of Waverley what he intended to do. 'Had you not better leave this luckless army,
and get down before us into Scotland, and embark for the Continent from some of the eastern
ports that are still in our possession? When you are out of the kingdom, your friends will
easily negotiate your pardon; and, to tell you the truth, I wish you would carry Rose Bradwardine
with you as your wife, and take Flora also under your joint protection.'--Edward looked surprised.--'She
loves you, and I believe you love her, though, perhaps, you have not found it out, for you
are not celebrated for knowing your own mind very pointedly.' He said this with a sort of smile.

'How,' answered Edward, 'can you advise me to desert the expedition in which we are all embarked?'

'Embarked?' said Fergus; 'the vessel is going to pieces, and it is full time for all who can
to get into the long-boat and leave her.'

'Why, what will other gentlemen do?' answered Waverley, 'and why did the Highland Chiefs consent
to this retreat if it is so ruinous?'

'O,' replied Mac-Ivor, 'they think that, as on former occasions, the heading, hanging, and
forfeiting will chiefly fall to the lot of the Lowland gentry; that they will be left secure
in their poverty and their fastnesses, there, according to their proverb, "to listen to the
wind upon the hill till the waters abate." But they will be disappointed; they have been too
often troublesome to be so repeatedly passed over, and this time John Bull has been too heartily
frightened to recover his good-humour for some time. The Hanoverian ministers always deserved
to be hanged for rascals; but now, if they get the power in their hands,--as, sooner or later,
they must, since there is neither rising in England nor assistance from France,--they will
deserve the gallows as fools if they leave a single clan in the Highlands in a situation to
be again troublesome to government. Ay, they will make root-and-branch- work, I warrant them.'

'And while you recommend flight to me,' said Edward,--'a counsel which I would rather die than
embrace,--what are your own views?'

'O,' answered Fergus, with a melancholy air, 'my fate is settled. Dead or captive I must be
before tomorrow.'

'What do you mean by that, my friend?' said Edward. 'The enemy is still a day's march in our
rear, and if he comes up, we are still strong enough to keep him in check. Remember Gladsmuir.'

'What I tell you is true notwithstanding, so far as I am individually concerned.'

'Upon what authority can you found so melancholy a prediction?' asked Waverley.

'On one which never failed a person of my house. I have seen,' he said, lowering his voice,
'I have seen the Bodach Glas.'

'Bodach Glas?'

'Yes; have you been so long at Glennaquoich, and never heard of the Grey Spectre? though indeed
there is a certain reluctance among us to mention him.'

'No, never.'

'Ah! it would have been a tale for poor Flora to have told you. Or, if that hill were Benmore,
and that long blue lake, which you see just winding towards yon mountainous country, were Loch
Tay, or my own Loch an Ri, the tale would be better suited with scenery. However, let us sit
down on this knoll; even Saddleback and Ulswater will suit what I have to say better than the
English hedgerows, enclosures, and farmhouses. My father saw him twice, once before he was
made prisoner at Sheriff-Muir, another time on the morning of the day on which he died.'

'How can you, my dear Fergus, tell such nonsense with a grave face?'

' I do not ask you to believe it; but I tell you the truth, ascertained by three hundred years'
experience at least, and last night by my own eyes.'

'The particulars, for heaven's sake!' said Waverley, with eagerness.

'I will, on condition you will not attempt a jest on the subject. Since this unhappy retreat
commenced I have scarce ever been able to sleep for thinking of my clan, and of this poor Prince,
whom they are leading back like a dog in a string, whether he will or no, and of the downfall
of my family. I got home and threw myself on my bed, where I spent a few hours heavily enough;
and this morning, as no enemy was reported to be near us, I took my horse and rode forward
to make up matters with you. I would not willingly fall until I am in charity with a wronged
friend.'

Edward had little doubt that this phantom was the operation of an exhausted frame and depressed
spirits, working on the belief common to all Highlanders in such superstitions. He did not
the less pity Fergus, for whom, in his present distress, he felt all his former regard revive.
With the view of diverting his mind from these gloomy images, he offered, with the Baron's
permission, which he knew he could readily obtain, to remain in his quarters till Fergus's
corps should come up, and then to march with them as usual. The Chief seemed much pleased,
yet hesitated to accept the offer.

'We are, you know, in the rear, the post of danger in a retreat.'

'And therefore the post of honour.'

'Well,' replied the Chieftain, 'let Alick have your horse in readiness, in case we should be
overmatched, and I shall be delighted to have your company once more.'

The rear-guard were late in making their appearance, having been delayed by various accidents
and by the badness of the roads. At length they entered the hamlet. When Waverley joined the
clan Mac- Ivor, arm-in-arm with their Chieftain, all the resentment they had entertained against
him seemed blown off at once. Evan Dhu received him with a grin of congratulation; and even
Callum, who was running about as active as ever, pale indeed, and with a great patch on his
head, appeared delighted to see him.

'That gallows-bird's skull,' said Fergus, 'must be harder than marble; the lock of the pistol
was actually broken.'

'How could you strike so young a lad so hard?' said Waverley, with some interest.

'Why, if I did not strike hard sometimes, the rascals would forget themselves.'

They were now in full march, every caution being taken to prevent surprise. Fergus's people,
and a fine clan regiment from Badenoch, commanded by Cluny Mac-Pherson, had the rear. They
had passed a large open moor, and were entering into the enclosures which surround a small
village called Clifton. The winter sun had set, and Edward began to rally Fergus upon the false
predictions of the Grey Spirit. 'The ides of March are not past,' said Mac-Ivor, with a smile;
when, suddenly casting his eyes back on the moor, a large body of cavalry was indistinctly
seen to hover upon its brown and dark surface. To line the enclosures facing the open ground
and the road by which the enemy must move from it upon the village was the work of a short
time. While these manoeuvres were accomplishing, night sunk down, dark and gloomy, though the
moon was at full. Sometimes, however, she gleamed forth a dubious light upon the scene of action.

The Highlanders did not long remain undisturbed in the defensive position they had adopted.
Favoured by the night, one large body of dismounted dragoons attempted to force the enclosures,
while another, equally strong, strove to penetrate by the highroad. Both were received by such
a heavy fire as disconcerted their ranks and effectually checked their progress. Unsatisfied
with the advantage thus gained, Fergus, to whose ardent spirit the approach of danger seemed
to restore all its elasticity, drawing his sword and calling out 'Claymore!' encouraged his
men, by voice and example, to break through the hedge which divided them and rush down upon
the enemy. Mingling with the dismounted dragoons, they forced them, at the sword-point, to
fly to the open moor, where a considerable number were cut to pieces. But the moon, which suddenly
shone out, showed to the English the small number of assailants, disordered by their own success.
Two squadrons of horse moving to the support of their companions, the Highlanders endeavoured
to recover the enclosures. But several of them, amongst others their brave Chieftain, were
cut off and surrounded before they could effect their purpose. Waverley, looking eagerly for
Fergus, from whom, as well as from the retreating body of his followers, he had been separated
in the darkness and tumult, saw him, with Evan Dhu and Callum, defending themselves desperately
against a dozen of horsemen, who were hewing at them with their long broadswords. The moon
was again at that moment totally overclouded, and Edward, in the obscurity, could neither bring
aid to his friends nor discover which way lay his own road to rejoin the rear-guard. After
once or twice narrowly escaping being slain or made prisoner by parties of the cavalry whom
he encountered in the darkness, he at length reached an enclosure, and, clambering over it,
concluded himself in safety and on the way to the Highland forces, whose pipes he heard at
some distance. For Fergus hardly a hope remained, unless that he might be made prisoner Revolving
his fate with sorrow and anxiety, the superstition of the Bodach Glas recurred to Edward's
recollection, and he said to himself, with internal surprise 'What, can the devil speak truth?'
[Footnote: See Note 13.]

CHAPTER LX

CHAPTER OF ACCIDENTS

Edward was in a most unpleasant and dangerous situation. He soon lost the sound of the bagpipes;
and, what was yet more unpleasant, when, after searching long in vain and scrambling through
many enclosures, he at length approached the highroad, he learned, from the unwelcome noise
of kettledrums and trumpets, that the English cavalry now occupied it, and consequently were
between him and the Highlanders. Precluded, therefore, from advancing in a straight direction,
he resolved to avoid the English military and endeavour to join his friends by making a circuit
to the left, for which a beaten path, deviating from the main road in that direction, seemed
to afford facilities. The path was muddy and the night dark and cold; but even these inconveniences
were hardly felt amidst the apprehensions which falling into the hands of the King's forces
reasonably excited in his bosom.

