     We were all the more able to adhere to this idea as our naval
     building programme has always lain open. We have already declared
     our readiness to come to an understanding on this point with
     England, in the hope that it may bring about a desired appeasement.

     World-embracing international arbitration treaties dictated by an
     international areopagus I consider just as impossible as general
     international disarmament. Germany takes up no hostile position
     toward arbitration. In all the new German treaties of commerce
     there are arbitration clauses. In the main it was due to Germany's
     initiative that an agreement was arrived at at the second Hague
     conference for the establishment of an International Prize Court.

     Arbitration treaties can certainly contribute in a great measure to
     maintain and fortify peaceful relations. But strength must depend
     on readiness for war. The dictum still holds good that the weak
     becomes the prey of the strong. If a nation can not or will not
     spend enough on her defensive forces for her to be able to make her
     way in the world, then she falls back into the second rank.

       *       *       *       *       *

Austria-Hungary's Version of the War

By Kaiser Franz Josef and Count Berchtold.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Imperial Rescript and Manifesto.

     Ischl, July 28.

     Dear Count Stürgkh:

     I have resolved to instruct the Ministers of my Household and
     Foreign Affairs to notify the Royal Servian Government of the
     beginning of a state of war between the Monarchy and Servia. In
     this fateful hour I feel the need of turning to my beloved peoples.
     I command you, therefore, to publish the inclosed manifesto.

MANIFESTO.

     To my peoples! It was my fervent wish to consecrate the years
     which, by the grace of God, still remain to me, to the works of
     peace and to protect my peoples from the heavy sacrifices and
     burdens of war. Providence, in its wisdom, has otherwise decreed.
     The intrigues of a malevolent opponent compel me, in the defense of
     the honor of my Monarchy, for the protection of its dignity and its
     position as a power, for the security of its possessions, to grasp
     the sword after long years of peace.

     With a quickly forgetful ingratitude, the Kingdom of Servia, which,
     from the first beginnings of its independence as a State until
     quite recently, had been supported and assisted by my ancestors,
     has for years trodden the path of open hostility to
     Austria-Hungary. When, after three decades of fruitful work for
     peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I extended my Sovereign rights to
     those lands, my decree called forth in the Kingdom of Servia, whose
     rights were in nowise injured, outbreaks of unrestrained passion
     and the bitterest hate. My Government at that time employed the
     handsome privileges of the stronger, and with extreme consideration
     and leniency only requested Servia to reduce her army to a peace
     footing and to promise that, for the future, she would tread the
     path of peace and friendship. Guided by the same spirit of
     moderation, my Government, when Servia, two years ago, was
     embroiled in a struggle with the Turkish Empire, restricted its
     action to the defense of the most serious and vital interests of
     the Monarchy. It was to this attitude that Servia primarily owed
     the attainment of the objects of that war.

     The hope that the Servian Kingdom would appreciate the patience and
     love of peace of my Government and would keep its word has not been
     fulfilled. The flame of its hatred for myself and my house has
     blazed always higher; the design to tear from us by force
     inseparable portions of Austria-Hungary has been made manifest with
     less and less disguise. A criminal propaganda has extended over the
     frontier with the object of destroying the foundations of State
     order in the southeastern part of the monarchy; of making
     the people, to whom I, in my paternal affection, extended my full
     confidence, waver in its loyalty to the ruling house and to the
     Fatherland; of leading astray its growing youth and inciting it to
     mischievous deeds of madness and high treason. A series of
     murderous attacks, an organized, carefully prepared, and well
     carried out conspiracy, whose fruitful success wounded me and my
     loyal peoples to the heart, forms a visible bloody track of those
     secret machinations which were operated and directed in Servia.

     A halt must be called to these intolerable proceedings and an end
     must be put to the incessant provocations of Servia. The honor and
     dignity of my monarchy must be preserved unimpaired, and its
     political, economic, and military development must be guarded from
     these continual shocks. In vain did my Government make a last
     attempt to accomplish this object by peaceful means and to induce
     Servia, by means of a serious warning, to desist. Servia has
     rejected the just and moderate demands of my Government and refused
     to conform to those obligations the fulfillment of which forms the
     natural and necessary foundation of peace in the life of peoples
     and States. I must therefore proceed by force of arms to secure
     those indispensable pledges which alone can insure tranquillity to
     my States within and lasting peace without.

     In this solemn hour I am fully conscious of the whole significance
     of my resolve and my responsibility before the Almighty. I have
     examined and weighed everything, and with a serene conscience I set
     out on the path to which my duty points. I trust in my peoples,
     who, throughout every storm, have always rallied in unity and
     loyalty around my throne, and have always been prepared for the
     severest sacrifices for the honor, the greatness, and the might of
     the Fatherland. I trust in Austria-Hungary's brave and devoted
     forces, and I trust in the Almighty to give the victory to my arms.

     FRANZ JOSEF.

       *       *       *       *       *

DECLARATION OF WAR.

Published in Special Edition of Official Gazette, Vienna, July 28.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DAYS OF WORLD'S HISTORY."

Congratulatory Telegram to Kaiser Wilhelm II., Aug. 27.

     Victory after victory. God is with you. He will be with us also. I
     most sincerely congratulate you, dear friend, also the young hero,
     your dear son, the Crown Prince, and the Crown Prince Rupprecht, as
     well as the incomparably brave German Army. Words fail to express
     what moves me and, with me, my army, in these days of world's
     history.

     "FRANZ JOSEPH."

       *       *       *       *       *

WILL OF WILHELM II. THAT SWUNG THE SWORD.

Kaiser Franz Josef's Address in Bestowing the Great Cross on the German Kaiser, September, 1914.

     The glorious victories, so crushing to the foe, which the German
     Army has won in battle under your chief command owe their begetting
     and their success to your iron will, which sharpened and swung the
     heavy sword.

     To the laurel that crowns you as victor I wish to add, if I may,
     the highest military honor which we possess, in begging you to take
     in true brotherhood of arms and as a token of my appreciation the
     Great Cross of my military Order of Marie Theresa. The decoration
     itself, dear friend, shall be handed to you by a special envoy as
     soon as it is convenient for you.

       *       *       *       *       *

     A PURELY DEFENSIVE WAR.

By Count Berchtold, Foreign Minister for Austria-Hungary.

(Copyright, Evening News Publishing Company of Newark, N.J., 1914.)

     Austria-Hungary looks upon this war as a purely defensive one,
     which has been forced on her by the agitation directed by Russia
     against her very existence. Austria-Hungary has given many proofs
     in late years of her peaceful intention. She refrained from any
     interference with arms in the Balkan war, though her interests were
     at stake. Subsequent events have proved what a serious danger the
     increase in territory and prestige which it brought Servia were for
     Austria-Hungary. Servia's ambitions have since grown and have been
     solely directed against the Dual Monarchy. Russia has tacitly
     approved of Servia's action because Russian statesmen wish to form
     an iron ring of enemies around Austria-Hungary and Germany in order
     that Russia's grasp on Constantinople and on Asia should never
     again be meddled with. Austro-Hungarian soldiers are fighting for
     their homes and for the maintenance of their country, the Russians
     are fighting to help the Russian Czar to gain the rule of the
     world, to destroy all his neighbors who may be dangerous to Russian
     ambitions. England is helping the Russians to oust her German
     rival. She feared for some time that German culture and German
     scientific methods would prove the stronger in a peaceful
     competition, and she now hopes to crush Germany with the help of
     Russia and France. And France is fighting to win back
     Alsace-Lorraine, to take her revenge on Germany, which the French
     nation has been aiming at for the last forty-four years.

     That is how Austria-Hungary looks upon the war. She never wished
     for territorial increase, she wished for peace and that her people
     should develop in safety.

     Germany equally had nothing to gain by a war, but Germany knows
     that Austria-Hungary's enemies are her enemies and that the
     dismemberment of the Hapsburg monarchy would mean the isolation of
     the German Empire.

     And so, after all efforts to keep Russia and England from breaking
     the peace of Europe had failed, she drew her sword to defend her
     and her allies' (ally's) interests.

     Truth and honor are on the side of the two empires in this war, the
     unspeakable inventions and prevarications published by the French,
     Russian, and English press in the last weeks alone must prove to
     the American people who can afford to tell the truth and nothing
     but the truth in this war.

     The Austro-Hungarian and German people have a clear conscience and
     need fear no misrepresentation of their action.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DISCORDANT NOTE.

By Count Michael Karolyi, Leader of Hungarian Independent Party, New York, July 27.

     If Austria had pursued a policy of directly helping the Balkan
     countries, if Austria had in the past made it a point to be
     actively their friend, this war would not confront us. Since it has
     come, of course all Hungarians will support the empire and internal
     differences will be dismissed while the empire is imperiled.

     As for the loyalty of the many Serbs within Austria-Hungary it is
     hard to say. There again we must hope that they will take the
     Austrian side. But the Austrian policy toward the Balkan countries
     has been wrong, all wrong.

       *       *       *       *       *

A German Review of the Evidence

       *       *       *       *       *

Certified by Dr. Bernhard Dernburg, German Ex-Colonial Secretary.

The following is presented as a complete defense of the German position in the present war
and is based upon examination of the German and English "White Papers." It was prepared in
Germany and forwarded to Dr. Bernhard Dernburg, who had it translated for THE NEW YORK TIMES
of Nov. 1, 1914.

Dr. Dernburg gives this statement his full approval and accepts complete responsibility for it.

Two of the five great European powers that are at present engaged in war, Austria-Hungary and
Russia, whose differences for years have been constantly increasing in sharpness, and after
the tragedy in Serajevo became impossible to be bridged by diplomacy, conjured up the frightful
struggle.

With these two, two other powers are so closely united by alliances that their participation
in the war also was unavoidable; they are Germany and France.

There are two other great European powers whose relations to the two aforesaid groups before
the war were very much alike in the essential points. Just as Italy was politically tied by
alliance to the central powers, so England was with the Franco-Russian Alliance. Hence it was
uncertain how these countries, each geographically removed from the main body of the Continent,
would act in a war, and it seemed quite possible that both would decide to remain neutral.

As a matter of fact, the Italian Government came to the view that such a stand would be for
the best interests of its country.

This decision might have made it considerably more easy for England to also maintain her neutrality,
which, from political, economical, and ethical reasons, would have been advantageous and natural
for the Island Empire. To the surprise and indignation of all those Germans who for years had
been working toward an adjustment of the conflicting interests of both countries--among these
ought to be mentioned, above all, the Kaiser and the Imperial Chancellor--the Liberal British
Ministry immediately declared war on Germany, and did not confine itself to a naval war, but,
in keeping with agreements reached years ago between the English and the French General Staffs,
as is now admitted, equipped an expeditionary army, thus considerably strengthening the French
forces.

The question arises, "What reasons led British politics to this monstrous step?"

Much has been written during the last weeks from the German side, criticising most sharply
and with great justification the motive of the London Cabinet. In the following discussion
we will confine ourselves to an impartial review of the documents published by the English
Government itself in its own defense.

The essential part of this justification is contained in the "Correspondence Concerning the
European Crisis," placed before the British Parliament shortly after the start of the war,
which is known as the British "White Paper." In amplification are to be considered the "White
Book" placed by the German Government before the Reichstag and the "Orange Book" published
by Russia.

       *       *       *       *       *

I.

THE RUSSIAN MOBILIZATION.

In a public speech, delivered Sept. 19, the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Lloyd George, according
to the report of The Westminster Gazette, which may be considered as his organ, characterized
the quarrel between Germany and Russia in the picturesque manner which this statesman prefers,
as follows:

     GERMANY--I insist that you stand aside with crossed arms while
     Austria strangles your little brother, (Servia.)

     RUSSIA--Just you touch this little fellow and I will tear
     your ramshackle empire limb from limb.

We will not waste words in considering the flippant form here used in a discussion of an unspeakably
bloody and world-historic conflict. But this expression in very pregnant form makes Russia
appear in the light in which the London powers-that-be desire to show the empire of the Czar
to the British people, viz., in the role of the noble-hearted protector of persecuted innocence,
while Germany, supporting and egging on Austria-Hungary, is shown as morally responsible for
the war.

Cites English Documents.

This, also, is the chain of thought in the speech of the British Prime Minister in the House
of Commons on Aug. 4. Translations of this speech have been spread by the British Government
in neutral countries in hundreds of thousands of copies under the title: "The Power Responsible
for War Is Germany."

Now, we claim that the British "White Paper" itself furnishes irrefutable proof that not Germany,
which up to the last moment offered the hand of mediation, but Russia is responsible for the
war, and that the Foreign Office at London was fully cognizant of this fact.

Furthermore, the "White Paper" shows that England's claim that she entered this war solely
as a protector of the small nations is a fable.

The documents reproduced in the "White Paper" do not begin until July 20, and only a few introductory
dispatches before the 24th are given. The first of the very important reports of the British
Ambassador at St. Petersburg, Sir George Buchanan, to the Secretary of State, Grey, is dated
on that day; on the same day the note addressed by Austria-Hungary to the Servian Government
had been brought to the knowledge of the European Cabinets, and the British Ambassador conferred
with the Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs, M. Sazonof, over this matter. The French Minister
also took part in this conference. No. 6.)

The British Ambassador thereupon asked the question whether Russia was thinking of eventually
declaring war on Austria. No. 6.)

This shows plainly that the Russian mobilization must have been planned even before July 24,
for otherwise M. Sazonof could not have spoken of the necessity of carrying it through.

It is furthermore very remarkable that the Russian Minister on this early day spoke of the
mobilization in general and not of the partial mobilization against Austria-Hungary.

Finally we find that the British Government was fully informed at the very latest on July 24--it
may have had before it previous documents, but they are not contained in the "White Paper"--concerning
Russian mobilization and thereby the development of Russian and French politics that had to
be anticipated.

Russian Aggression.

Had there been any doubts concerning these matters on the part of the British Government, the
continual urging of Russian and French diplomatists must have made things plain. Russia's aggressive
policy, and not the Austrian declaration of war on Servia, which did not come until five days
later, led to the European war. Servia meant so little to England, although England traditionally
poses as a protector of small nations, that the British Ambassador in St. Petersburg was able
to describe England's interest in the kingdom on the Save as "nil." Only later, after the beginning
of the war, England warmed up to Servia, and in the aforementioned speech Mr. Lloyd George
found the most hearty tones in speaking of the heroic fight of this "little nation," although
he was obliged to admit simultaneously that its' history is not untainted.

On the day following that conversation, on July 25, the British Ambassador had another talk
with M. Sasonof, during the course of which he felt obliged to express to the Russian Government
a serious warning concerning its mobilization.

     On my expressing the earnest hope that Russia would not precipitate
     war by mobilizing until you had had time to use your influence in
     favor of peace his Excellency assured me that Russia had no
     aggressive intentions and she would take no action until it was
     forced on her. Austria's action was in reality directed against
     Russia. She aimed at overthrowing the present status quo in the
     Balkans and establishing her own hegemony there. If we failed them now rivers of blood would flow
     and we would in the end be dragged into war....

     I said all I could to impress prudence on the Minister for Foreign
     Affairs and warned him that if Russia mobilized Germany would not
     be content with mere mobilization or give Russia time to carry out
     hers, but would probably declare war at once! He assured me once more that he did not wish to precipitate a
     conflict, but that unless Germany could restrain Austria I could
     regard the situation as desperate.--(British "White Paper" No. 17.)

A more convincing contradiction of the claim that Germany fell upon unexpectant Russia can
hardly be imagined. Sazonof's conversation with the British Ambassador shows that Russia had
decided from the beginning to bring about the war, unless Austria would subject itself to Russia's
dictation.

Now, Russia was not alone concerned about Servia, but from its viewpoint Austria-Hungary must
not maintain the preponderant position in the Balkans.

Sure of French help, Russia was determined to work against this. The reports of the British
representative do not suggest with a word that Germany was responsible for the war; on the
contrary, Sir Buchanan again, on his own account, warned the Russian Government to keep aloof
from military measures, in his conversation with M. Sazonof on July 27, although the "White
Paper" does not show that he had received any instructions by Sir Edward Grey.

     His Excellency must not, if our efforts were to be successful, do
     anything to precipitate a conflict. In these circumstances I
     trusted that the Russian Government would defer the mobilization
     ukase for as long as possible, and that troops would not be allowed
     to cross the frontier even when it was issued.--(British "White
     Paper," No, 44.)

Just as its own Ambassador in Petersburg pointed out to the British Government the dangers
of Russian mobilization, England did not lack German warnings. On July 28 the British Ambassador
in Berlin, Sir E. Goschen, reported as follows by wire concerning a conversation with the Imperial
Chancellor:

     ... but if the news were true which he had just read in the papers,
     that Russia had mobilized fourteen army corps in the South, he
     thought the situation was very serious, and he himself would be in
     a very difficult position, as in these circumstances it would be
     out of his power to continue to preach moderation at Vienna. He
     added that Austria, who as yet was only partially mobilizing, would
     have to take similar measures, and if war were to result Russia
     would be entirely responsible.--(British "White Paper" No. 71.)

In a telegram of Mr. Goschen's of July 30, reporting a conversation with the Secretary of State,
von Jagow, it is stated:

     He begged me to impress on you difficulty of Germany's
     position in view of Russian mobilization and military measures
     which he hears are being taken in France.--(British "White Paper"
     No. 98.)

The British Government has added a few further publications to its "White Paper." Among these
is a report of the hitherto British Ambassador in Vienna, Sir Maurice de Bunsen. The document
is dated Sept. 1; that is, a full month after the outbreak of the war. The tendency of this
publication is not only to unburden Russia and England from all blame and to put it upon German
and Austro-Hungarian politics, but it attempts to make Germany responsible for the war to greater
extent than Austria-Hungary in trying to sow dissension between the two allies.

Ambassador de Bunsen represents matters as if Germany, through its ultimatum to Russia on July
31, had roughly interrupted negotiations promising success then going on between Vienna and
Petersburg. In this report it is stated:

     (Retranslated.) M. Schebeko [the Russian Ambassador at Vienna] on
     July 28th attempted to induce the Austrian Government to authorize
     Count Scapary to continue negotiations which he had been carrying
     on with M. Sazonof and which appeared very promising. Count
     Berchtold on this day declined, but two days later, July 30th,
     although Russia then had already started partial mobilization
     against Austria, he received M. Schebeko again in the most
     courteous manner and gave his consent to continuation of the pour
     parleurs.... On Aug. 1st M. Schebeko informed me that Austria was
     ready to submit to mediation those parts of its note to Servia
     which appeared to be irreconcilable to the independence of
     Servia.... Unfortunately these pour parleurs in St. Petersburg and
     Vienna were suddenly broken off by the quarrel being removed to the
     more dangerous territory of a direct conflict between Germany and
     Russia. Germany on July 31 stepped between the two with its double
     ultimatum addressed to St. Petersburg and Paris.... A delay of a
     few days in all probability would have spared Europe one of the
     greatest wars in history.

On the other hand, be it remembered that the fact that any negotiations between Austria and
Russia were carried on up to the last hour was solely the result of the uninterrupted German
efforts to maintain peace, which fact Sir Maurice de Bunsen very wisely buries in silence.
These negotiations, by the way, hardly were as promising of success as is made to appear. The
Austrian version of it is found in the Vienna Fremdenblatt of Sept. 25, 1914. There the most
important spots of Bunsen's report, that Austria-Hungary had been ready to moderate several
points of its note to Servia, are mentioned, as follows:

     As we are told by a well-informed source, these assertions do not
     at all correspond to the facts; furthermore, from the very nature
     of the steps undertaken by the dual monarchy in Belgrade, this
     would have been entirely inconceivable.

A glance at the date shows that the Bunsen report is misleading, for he himself tells that
Count Berchtold, on July 30, had expressed his consent to a continuation of the exchange of
thought in Petersburg; the latter, therefore, could not begin before the 31st, while in the
night from July 30 to 31 the mobilization of the entire Russian Army against Germany was ordered
in Petersburg, finally making impossible the continuation of the last German attempt at mediation
in Vienna.

The truth is, in spite of Russian and English twistings, that without the interval caused by
Germany's efforts in Vienna, which interval England allowed to pass unused in Petersburg, the
war would have broken out a few days sooner.

Let us consider how the fact of the Russian mobilization, the dimensions and tendency of which
was brought to the knowledge of the London Cabinet at the very latest on July 24, must affect
Germany.

On July 24 the Russian Government declared, in an official communiqué, it would be impossible
for it to remain indifferent in an Austro-Servian conflict.

Germany's Hand Forced.

This declaration was followed immediately by military measures which represented the beginning
of Russian mobilization long planned. But even on July 27 the Russian Minister of War, Suchomlinof,
assured the German Military Attaché upon word of honor (Annex 11 of the German "White Paper")
that no order for mobilization had been given and no reservists had been drawn and no horse
had been commandeered.

Although in this conversation there had been left no doubt to the Russian Minister of War concerning
the fact that measures of mobilization against Austria must be considered by Germany also as
very threatening toward itself, during the next days news of the Russian mobilization arrived
in quick succession.

On the 29th mobilization of Southern and Southwestern Russia was ordered, which was extended
on the 30th to twenty-three provinces.

On the night of the 30th to the 31st, while the efforts of the Kaiser to maintain peace were
continuing and were receiving friendly attention in Vienna, in St. Petersburg the mobilization
of the entire Russian Army was ordered. Even as late as 2 P.M. on the 31st, however, (German
"White Paper," Page 18, of NEW YORK TIMES reprint,) the Czar telegraphed the Kaiser that the
military measures now being taken were meant for defensive purposes against Austria's preparations,
and he gave his pledge as far away from desiring war.

In the face of such evident duplicity of Russian politics, a further delay such as was desired
by Sir Maurice de Bunsen would have been for every German statesman a crime against the security
of his own country.

On the other hand, upon what German measures did the Russian Government base its order for
mobilization? The British "White Paper" proves how frivolously steps leading to the most serious
results were ordered in St. Petersburg. No. 97.)

Proofs Lacking.

On the other hand, Buchanan's telegram of July 31 (British "White Paper" No. 113) states:

     Russia has also reason to believe that Germany is making active
     military preparations, and she cannot afford to let her get a
     start.--(British "White Paper" No. 113.)

So, from one day to the next the "absolute proof" changed to a reason for the assumption. In
reality, both were assertions that lack all proof. No. 121.)

Therefore, the German Chancellor, in his memorandum placed before the Reichstag, stated with
full justification:

     The Russian Government has smashed the laborious attempts at
     mediation on the part of the European State Chancelleries, on the
     eve of success, by the mobilization, endangering the safety of the
     empire. The measures for a mobilization, about whose seriousness
     the Russian Government was fully acquainted from the beginning, in
     connection with their constant denial, show clearly that Russia
     wanted war.

     To this is to be added that the English Government also was made
     fully cognizant of the intentions of the Russian mobilization, by a
     witness that could not be suspected, namely, its own representative
     in St. Petersburg, and therefore must bear full responsibility.

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

GREY'S OMISSIONS AND ERRORS.

We have seen from the "Blue Book" that the Secretary of State in London was informed at the
very latest on July 24 by his Ambassador in St. Petersburg of the plan of the Russian mobilization
and consequently of the tremendous seriousness of the European situation. Yet eight to nine
days had to elapse before the beginning of the war. Let us see whether Sir Edward Grey used
this time to preserve peace, according to his own documents.

From this testimony it appears that even at the beginning of the last and decisive part of
the European crisis, which began on June 28, 1914, with the assassination of the Austrian heir
to the throne, Sir Edward Grey refrained from considering a direct participation of his country
in the possible world war. At least, this must be the impression gained from his remarks to
the representatives of the two powers with whom England is today at war. Thus, he said to the
Austro-Hungarian Ambassador, Count Mensdorff, on July 23:

     The possible consequences of the present situation were terrible. No. 3.)

Here Grey speaks only of four of the big powers at most that may go to war, without even hinting
at the fifth, namely, England. On July 24 he had another conversation with the Austrian Ambassador,
the theme of which was the note--meanwhile presented to Servia. It caused apprehensions on
his part, but he declared again:

     The merits of the dispute between Austria and Servia were not the
     concern of his Majesty's Government....

     I [Grey] ended by saying that doubtless we should enter into an
     exchange of views with other powers, and that I must await their
     views as to what could be done to mitigate the difficulties of the
     situation.--(British "White Paper" No. 5.)

We are already striking the fateful peculiarity of Grey's policy to hesitate where prompt action,
or at least a clear and open conduct, would have been his duty. This weakness of his nature
has been used with great art by French and Russian diplomacy. This is illustrated by the conversation
of July 24 between him and the French Ambassador, Cambon, in London:

     M. Cambon said that, if there was a chance of mediation by the four
     powers he had no doubt that his Government would be glad to join
     in it; but he pointed out that we could not say anything in St.
     Petersburg till Russia had expressed some opinion or taken some
     action. But, when two days were over, Austria would march into
     Servia, for the Servians could not possibly accept the Austrian
     demand. Russia would be compelled by her public opinion to take
     action as soon as Austria attacked Servia, and, therefore, once the
     Austrians had attacked Servia it would be too late for any
     mediation.--(British "White Paper" No. 10.)

Thus, England must not give any advice to Russia before it knows Russia's intent and even its
measures. But inasmuch as Austria will have proceeded against Servia by that time Russia must
make war, and the conclusion is that even on July 24 the catastrophe is considered unavoidable.
Grey shows himself more and more hypnotized by the fatalistic view that it is too late. Hence
he reports also on July 24 a conversation of the German Ambassador, Prince Lichnowsky:

     I reminded the German Ambassador that some days ago he had
     expressed a personal hope that if need arose I would endeavor to
     exercise moderating influence at St. Petersburg, but now I said
     that, in view of the extraordinarily stiff character of the
     Austrian note, the shortness of time allowed, and the wide scope of
     the demands upon Servia, I felt quite helpless as far as Russia was
     concerned, and I did not believe any power could exercise influence
     alone.--(British "White Paper" No. 11.)

From a conversation of Grey with the Prince Lichnowsky, the German Ambassador, on July 25:

     Alone we could do nothing. The French Government were traveling
     [this refers to the visit at St. Petersburg by Messrs. Poincaré and
     Viviani] at the moment, and I had had no time to consult them, and
     could not, therefore, be sure of their views.--(British "White
     Paper" No. 25.)

If Sir Edward Grey sincerely desired the maintenance of peace, he must have had to use his
entire influence at St. Petersburg to bring about the stopping of the threatening military
measures taken by Russia, whereas he was waiting for the opinion of the French Government.
He was bound to do this, so much the more in view of the fact that he demanded from Germany
that it should exert its influence with Austria. He expressed his recognition and his joy over
it on July 28 ("Blue Book," Page 67):

     It is very satisfactory to hear from the German Ambassador here
     that the German Government have taken action at Vienna in the sense
     of the conversation recorded in my telegram of yesterday to
     you.--(British "White Paper" No. 67.)[02]

Neither has Grey been left in the dark by the German side concerning the difficulties, which
by the Russian mobilization made every attempt to mediate in Vienna abortive. Even on July
31 the British Ambassador in Berlin telegraphed:

     The Chancellor informs me that his efforts to preach peace and
     moderation at Vienna have been seriously handicapped by the Russian
     mobilization against Austria. He has done everything possible to
     obtain his object at Vienna, perhaps even rather more than was
     altogether palatable at the Ballplatz.--(British "White Paper" No.
     108.)

England and Russia.

How, on the other hand, about Grey's action with Russia? From the very beginning one should
have had a right to expect that, as Germany acted in Vienna, thus France, if it was active
in Grey's spirit, would be working in St. Petersburg for peace. Of this no trace whatsoever
can be found. The French Government thus far has not published any series of documents concerning
its activity during the crisis, and neither in the Russian "Orange Book" nor in the English
"Blue Book" is anything mentioned of the mediating activity on the part of France.

On the contrary, the latter power, wherever she puts in an appearance--as for instance in the
conversation of the English Ambassador in St. Petersburg with his French colleague and M. Sazonof,
as mentioned above--appears as fully identical with Russia. No. 6.)

One should think that Grey, who in view of this could not possibly expect an influence for
peace being brought to bear by France, but only a strengthening of the Russian desire for aggression,
now would have acted in the most energetic manner in St. Petersburg for the maintenance of peace.

In reality, however, during the days that still remained, aside from a weak and in St. Petersburg
absolutely ineffective advice to postpone mobilization, he did nothing whatsoever, and later
placed himself in a manner constantly more recognizable on the side of Russia.

The claim that the time limit given by the Austrian note to Servia was the cause of the war,
that Grey's mediation had only miscarried owing to the haste of Germany, is disproved by the
British documents themselves. De Bunsen on July 26 telegraphed to Grey from Vienna:

     Russian Ambassador just returned from leave, thinks that
     Austro-Hungarian Government are determined on war and that it is
     impossible for Russia to remain indifferent. He does not propose to
     press for more time in the sense of your telegram of the 25th
     inst.--(British "White Paper" No. 40.)

Therefore Russia has paid little attention to the very shy and timid efforts to maintain peace
by the London Secretary of State, even where these were concerned in the attempt to change
the position taken by Austria.

Another proof: Sazonof on July 27 sent a telegram to the Russian Ambassador in London which
the latter transmitted to Grey, and which concerns itself with the much mentioned proposition
of the latter to have the conflict investigated by a conference of the four great powers not
immediately concerned.

Russian Sincerity Questioned.

The conference plan was declined without much hesitation and openly by Germany, because it
was compelled to see therein an attempt to place Austria before a European court of arbitration,
and because it knew the serious determination of its ally in this matter. But did Russia really
want the conference? Minister Sazonof declares:

     I replied to the [British] Ambassador that I have begun
     conversations with the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador, under
     conditions which I hope may be favorable. I have not, however,
     received as yet any reply to the proposal made by me for revising
     the note between the two Cabinets.--(British "White Paper" No.
     53.)

Here it is shown plainly how little the conference plan was after the heart of the Russians.
Had they accepted it it would have had to be done immediately. As soon as the situation had
grown very much more serious by the failure of the negotiations with Austria-Hungary there
would have been no more time for this.[03]

A telegram of the English Ambassador in St. Petersburg, dated July 27, (British "White Paper"
No. 55,) shows how this conference was expected to be conducted in St. Petersburg:

     His Excellency [Sazonof] said he was perfectly ready to stand aside
     if the powers accepted the proposal for a conference, but he
     trusted that you would keep in touch with the Russian Ambassador in
     the event of its taking place.--(British "White Paper" No. 55.)

Russian shrewdness evidently expected to control the conference by keeping in touch with Grey,
who of course would have been the Chairman. The dispatches of his own Ambassadors lying before
him should have enabled the Secretary of State to see the perfidy of the Russian policy. Buchanan
wrote on the 28th from St. Petersburg:

     ... and asked him whether he would be satisfied with the assurance
     which the Austrian Ambassador had, I understood, been instructed to
     give in respect to Servia's integrity and independence.... In reply
     his Excellency stated that if Servia were attacked Russia would not
     be satisfied with any engagement which Austria might take on these
     two points....--(British "White Paper" No. 72.)

Entirely in contrast herewith is one report of the British representative in Vienna, dated
Aug. 1, and speaking of a conversation with the Russian Ambassador there:

     Russia would, according to the Russian Ambassador, be satisfied
     even now with assurance respecting Servian integrity and
     independence. He said that Russia had no intention to attack
     Austria.--(British "White Paper" No. 141.)

What, then, may one ask, was the opinion which Sir Edward Grey had formed concerning Russia's
real intentions? He learns from Russian sources and notes faithfully that Russia will accept
Austrian guarantees for independence of Servia, and also that it will not accept such guarantees.
It is the same duplicity which Russia, when its own mobilization was concerned, showed toward
Germany. Did Sir Edward not notice this duplicity, or did he not wish to notice it? If the
documents of the English Government have not been selected with the purpose to confuse, then
in London the decision to take part in the war does not seem to have been a certainty at the
beginning. We have seen that Ambassador Buchanan in St. Petersburg on July 24 gave the Russian
Minister to understand that England was not of a mind to go to war on account of Servia. This
position, taken by the Ambassador, was approved by Sir Edward Grey on the following day in
the following words:

     I entirely approve what you said ... and I cannot promise more on
     behalf of the Government.--(British "White Paper" No. 24.)

Based upon these instructions, Sir George Buchanan, even on July 27, stated to M. Sazonof,
who continued to urge England to unconditionally join Russia and France:

     I added that you [Grey] could not promise to do anything more, and
     that his Excellency was mistaken if he believed that the cause of
     peace could be promoted by our telling the German Government that
     they would have to deal with us as well as with Russia and France
     if she supported Austria by force of arms. Their [the German]
     attitude would merely be stiffened by such a menace.--(British
     "White Paper" No. 44.)

But on this same 27th day of July, Grey, submitting to the intrigues of Russian and French
diplomacy, had committed one very fateful step (Telegram to Buchanan, July 27):

     I have been told by the Russian Ambassador that in German and
     Austrian circles impression prevails that in any event we would
     stand aside. His Excellency deplored the effect that such an
     impression must produce. This impression ought, as I have pointed
     out, to be dispelled by the orders we have given to the first fleet
     which is concentrated, as it happens, at Portland not to disperse
     for manoeuvre leave. But I explained to the Russian Ambassador that
     my reference to it must not be taken to mean that anything more
     than diplomatic action was promised.--(British "White Paper" No.
     47.)

For Russia this order to the fleet meant very much more than a diplomatic action. Sazonof saw
that the wind in London was turning in his favor and he made use of it. Among themselves the
Russian diplomatists seem to have for a long time been clear and open in their discussion of
their real object. You find among the documents of the Russian "Orange Book" the following
telegram of Sazonof of July 25 to the Russian Ambassador in London:

     In case of a new aggravation of the situation, possibly provoking
     on the part of the great powers' united action, [des actions
     conformes,] we count that England will not delay placing herself
     clearly on the side of Russia and France, with the view to
     maintaining the equilibrium of Europe, in favor of which she has
     constantly intervened in the past, and which would without doubt be
     compromised in the case of the triumph of Austria.--(Russian
     "Orange Paper" No. 17.)

There is no mention of Servia here, but Austria should not triumph. Russia's real intention,
of course, was not placed so nakedly before the British Secretary of State, hence to him the
appearance was maintained that the little State of the Sawe was the only consideration, although
the Russian Army was already being mobilized with all energy.

On the 28th he wires to the Russian Ambassador, Count Benckendorff, to London to inform the
British Government:

     It seems to me that England is in a better position than any other
     power to make another attempt at Berlin to induce the German
     Government to take the necessary action. There is no doubt
     that the key of the situation is to be found at Berlin.--(British
     "White Paper" No. 54.)

The opinion subtly suggested upon him by Paris and Petersburg diplomacy, namely, that he should
not use any pressure upon Russia, but upon Germany, now takes hold of Grey more and more. No. 84.)

Petersburg, now assured of the support of Grey, becomes more and more outspoken for war. On
the 28th Grey again expressed one of his softhearted propositions for peace. Mr. Sazonof hardly
made the effort to hide his contempt. Buchanan telegraphs on the 29th as follows:

     The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that proposal referred to in
     your telegram of the 28th inst. was one of secondary importance.
     Under altered circumstances of situation he did not attach weight
     to it.... Minister for Foreign Affairs had given me to understand
     that Russia would not precipitate war by crossing frontier
     immediately, and a week or more would in any case elapse before
     mobilization was completed. In order to find an issue out of a
     dangerous situation it was necessary that we should in the
     meanwhile all work together.--(British "White Paper" No. 78.)

Naivete or Cynicism?

Here it really becomes impossible to judge where the naïveté of the British Secretary of State
ends and cynicism begins, for Sazonof could not have told to him more plainly than in these
lines that all Russia's ostensible readiness for peace served no other purpose than to win
time to complete the strategical location of the Russian troops.

This point is emphasized by one document coming from a writer presumably unbiased, but presumably
distrustful of Germany, wherein the confirmation is found that England and Russia had come
to a full agreement during these days.

On July 30 the Belgian Chargé d'Affaires de l'Escaille in Petersburg reported to the Belgian
Government upon the European crisis. Owing to the fast developing events of a warlike nature,
this letter did not reach its address by mail, and it was published later on. The Belgian diplomatist
writes:

     It is undeniable that Germany tried hard here [that is, in
     Petersburg] and in Vienna to find any means whatsoever in order to
     forestall a general conflict....

And after M. de l'Escaille has told that Russia--what the Czar and his War Minister with their
highest assurances toward Germany had denied--was mobilizing its own army, he continues:

     Today at Petersburg one is absolutely convinced, yes, they have
     even received assurances in that direction, that England and France
     will stay by them. This assistance is of decisive importance and
     has contributed much to the victory of the [Russian] war party.

This settles Grey's pretended "attempts at mediation." The truth is that British politics decided
to prevent a diplomatic success of Germany and Austria, now worked openly toward the Russian
aim. "The exertion of pressure upon Berlin" included already a certain threat, mingled with
good advice.

On July 23 Grey had only spoken of four possible powers in war; hence when on the German side
some hope of England maintaining neutrality was indulged in, this impression rested upon Grey's
own explanations. On July 29, however, after a political conversation with Prince Lichnowsky,
German Ambassador in London, he adds an important personal bit of information. He wires concerning
it to Berlin, to Goschen:

     After speaking to the German Ambassador this afternoon about the
     European situation, I said that I wished to say to him, in a quite
     private and friendly way, something that was on my mind. The
     situation was very grave.... But if we failed in our efforts to
     keep the peace, and if the issue spread so that it involved every
     European interest, I did not wish to be open to any reproach from
     him, that the friendly tone of all our conversations had misled him
     or his Government into supposing that we should not take action....
     But we knew very well that if the issue did become such that we
     thought that British interests required us to intervene, we must
     intervene at once and the decision would have to be very
     rapid.--(British "White Paper" No. 89.)

But what is especially wrong is that Grey brought this warning, which only could have any effect
if it remained an absolute, confidential secret between the English and German Governments,
also to the French Ambassador, so that the entire Entente could mischievously look on and see
whether Germany really would give in to British pressure. Of course, in his manner of swaying
to and fro, he did not wish either that Cambon should not accept this information to the German
Ambassador as a decided taking of a position on the part of England:

     I thought it necessary [speaking to M. Cambon] to say that because
     as he knew we were taking all precautions with regard to our fleet
     and I was about to warn Prince Lichnowsky not to count on our
     standing aside, but it would not be fair that I should let M.
     Cambon be misled into supposing that we had decided what to do in a
     contingency that I still hoped might not arise....--(British "White
     Paper" No. 87.)

Stirring Up Trouble.

On the German side Grey's open threat, which was presented, however, with smooth and friendly
sounding words, was received with quiet politeness. Goschen telegraphed on the 30th concerning
a talk with State Secretary von Jagow:

     His Excellency added that telegram received from Prince Lichnowsky
     last night contains matter which he had heard with regret, but not
     exactly with surprise, and, at all events, he thoroughly
     appreciated the frankness and loyalty with which you had
     spoken.--(British "White Paper" No. 98.)

Now the work of stirring up trouble is continued unceasingly. On July 30 the British Ambassador
in Paris, Sir F. Bertie, concerning a conversation with the President of the Republic, reports:

     He [Poincaré] is convinced that peace between the powers is in the
     hands of Great Britain. If his Majesty's Government announced that
     England would come to the aid of France in the event of a conflict
     between France and Germany ... there would be no war, for Germany
     would at once modify her attitude.--(British "White Paper" No. 99.)

Did Grey really think for one moment that the German Empire would change its position immediately,
in other words, would suddenly leave its ally in need, or is all this only a mass of diplomatic
blandishments?

On the same day Grey steps from the personal warning which he had given to the German Ambassador
to the sharpest official threat. In a telegram to the Ambassador in Berlin upon the question
placed before him by the Chancellor of the empire on the day prior, (British "White Paper"
No. 101.)

With this telegram the war on Germany was practically declared, for as a price of British neutrality
an open humiliation of Germany was demanded. If France--the question of French colonies is
of very minor importance in this connection--must not be defeated by Germany, then England
forbade the German Government to make war. It was furthermore stated that Germany was absolutely
compelled to accept Russian-French dictates, and would have to leave Austria to its own resources.
This would have meant Germany's retirement from the position of a great power, even if she
had backed down before such a challenge.

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

THE AGREEMENT WITH FRANCE.

Only in the light of the developments concerning England's relation to France, given at the
beginning of the war, Grey's policy, swaying between indecision and precipitate action, becomes
apparent.

In all the explanations which the British Government in the course of eight years had presented
to the British Parliament concerning the relations to other large powers, the assurance had
been repeated that no binding agreements with the two partners of the Franco-Russian alliance
had been made, above all, that no agreement with France existed. Only in his speech in the
House of Commons on Aug, 3, 1914, which meant the war with Germany, Grey gave to the representatives
of the people news of certain agreements which made it a duty for Great Britain to work together
with France in any European crisis.

The fateful document, which in the form of an apparently private letter to the French Ambassador,
dealt with one of the most important compacts of modern history, was written toward the end
of the year 1912, and is published in the British "White Paper" No. 105, Annex 1:

     London Foreign Office, Nov. 22, 1912.

     My Dear Ambassador:

     From time to time in recent years the French and British naval and
     military experts have consulted together. It has always been
     understood that such consultation does not restrict the freedom of
     either Government to decide at any future time whether or not to
     assist the other by armed force. We have agreed that consultation
     between experts is not, and ought not to be, regarded as an
     engagement that commits either Government to action in a
     contingency that has not arisen and may never arise. The
     disposition, for instance, of the French and British fleets
     respectively at the present moment is not based upon an engagement
     to co-operate in war.

     You have, however, pointed out that, if either Government had grave
     reason to expect an unprovoked attack by a third power, it might
     become essential to know whether it could in that event depend upon
     the armed assistance of the other.

     I agree that, if either Government had grave reason to expect an
     unprovoked attack by a third power, or something that threatened
     the general peace, it should immediately discuss with the other
     whether both Governments should act together to prevent aggression
     and to preserve peace, and, if so, what measures they would be
     prepared to take in common. If these measures involved action, the
     plans of the General Staffs would at once be taken into
     consideration, and the Governments would then decide what effect
     should be given to them.

     Yours, &c.,

     E. GREY.

Was Parliament Deceived?

A few members of the English Parliament who on Aug. 3 dared to gingerly protest against the
war may have had reason to complain about the hiding of facts from the House of Commons. When
such understandings can be made without any one having an idea of their existence, then--so
far as England is concerned--the supervision of the Government, theoretically being exercised
by a Parliament, becomes a fiction.

Veiled Defensive Alliance.

As a matter of fact, Grey does not desire to have accepted as political obligations the conversations
of the French and English Army and Navy General Staffs concerning the future plans of campaign
which took place from time to time in times of peace. However, the true tendency of this agreement,
for such it is, gives itself away in the promise to immediately enter with France into a political
and military exchange of opinions in every critical situation; it means in realty nothing less
than a veiled defensive alliance which by clever diplomatic manipulations can be changed without
any difficulty to an offensive one, for inasmuch as the English Government promises to consult
and work together with France, and consequently also with its ally, Russia, in every crisis,
before a serious investigation of the moments of danger, it waives all right of taking an independent
position.

How would England ever have been able to enter a war against France without throwing upon itself
the accusation of faithlessness against one with whose plans for war it had become acquainted
through negotiations lasting through years?

Here a deviation may be permissible, which leaves for a moment the basis of documentary proof.

If one considers how this agreement of such immeasurable consequences was not only hidden from
the British Parliament by the Cabinet, but how to the very edge of conscious deceit its existence
was denied--in the year 1913 Premier Asquith answered a query of a member of the House of Commons
that there were no unpublished agreements in existence which in a case of war between European
powers would interfere with or limit free decision on the part of the British Government or
Parliament as to whether or not Britain should take part at a war--then certain reports making
their appearance with great persistency in June, 1914, concerning an Anglo-Russian naval agreement
are seen in a different light.

Persons who were acquainted with the happenings in diplomacy then stated that the Russian Ambassador
in Paris, M. Iswolski, during the visit which the King of England and Sir Edward Grey were
paying to Paris, had succeeded in winning the English statesmen for the plan of such an agreement.
A formal alliance, it was said, was not being demanded by Russia immediately, for good reasons.
M. Iswolski was attempting to go nearer to his goal, carefully, step by step.

It had been preliminarily agreed that negotiations should be started between the British Admiralty
and the Russian Naval Attaché in London, Capt. Wolkow. As a matter of fact Wolkow during June
went to St. Petersburg for a few days to, as was assumed, obtain instructions and then return
to London.

Grey's "Twisty" Answer.

These happenings aroused so much attention in England that questions were raised in Parliament
concerning them. It was noted how twisty Grey's answer was. He referred to the answer of the
Premier, already mentioned, stated that the situation is unchanged, and said then that no negotiations
were under way concerning a naval agreement with any foreign nation. "As far as he was able
to judge the matter," no such negotiations would be entered into later on.

The big Liberal newspaper, The Manchester Guardian, was not at all satisfied with this explanation;
it assumed that certain conditional preliminary agreements might not be excluded.

This Russian plan, which was later worked out in St. Petersburg, went into oblivion on account
of the rapidly following European war. In the light of the following revelation of Grey's agreement
with France, the news of the naval agreement desired by Iswolski assumed another aspect.

Let us return to the Anglo-French agreement. The following remarks by the French Ambassador
in London, reported by Grey, prove that, on the ground of this agreement, France, with very
little trouble, would be able to make out of a diplomatic entanglement a case for Allies' interest
as far as England is concerned.

A German "Attack."

He [Cambon] anticipated that the [German] aggression would take the form of either a demand
to cease her preparations or a demand that she should engage to remain neutral if there was
war between Germany and Russia. Neither of these things would France admit.--(British "White
Paper" No. 105.)

Therefore, even the demand addressed to France not to, jointly with Russia, attack Germany
became a German "attack," which obliged England to come to the aid!

In spite of this, even on July 27 in a conversation with Cambon, Grey gave himself the appearance
as if his hands were free. He told the Frenchman:

     If Germany became involved and France became involved we had not
     made up our minds what we should do; it was a case that we should
     have to consider.... We were free from engagements and we should
     have to decide what British interests required us to do.--(British
     "White Paper" No. 87.)

M. Cambon remarked in reply that the Secretary of State had clearly pictured the situation,
but on the very following day the French Ambassador took the liberty to remind Grey of the
letter written in 1912. (British "White Paper" No. 105.)

Grey did not deny the claim implied in this reminder, but even as late as July 31 he reports
as follows concerning the conversation with Cambon:

     Up to the present moment we did not feel and public opinion
     did not feel that any treaties or obligations of this country were
     involved.... M. Cambon repeated his question whether we would help
     France if Germany made an attack on her. I said I could only adhere
     to the answer that, as far as things had gone at present, we could
     not take any engagement.... I said that the Cabinet would certainly
     be summoned as soon as there was some new development; that at the
     present moment the only answer I could give was that we could not
     undertake any definite engagement.--(British "White Paper" No.
     119.)

Now, if we remember that even on the day before Grey had informed the German Imperial Chancellor
that it would be a shame for England to remain neutral and allow France to be crushed, we here
find a new proof of the unreliability of his conduct. If he has been gullible, the declaration
of 1912, the dangerous character of which is increased by its apparently undefined tenor, has
enmeshed him more and more. Also the military and naval circles, whose consultations with the
representatives of the French Army and Navy certainly have been continued diligently since
the beginning of the Servian crisis, were forcing toward a decision.

At all events, it became more impossible with every hour for Germany to
keep England out of the way by any offers whatsoever. I said that I felt obliged to refuse definitely any
     promise.... (British "White Paper" No. 123.)

Belgium Not the Cause.

Hence, only if Germany would permit herself to be humiliated war with England could be avoided.
The violation of Belgium's neutrality was in no way the cause of England joining Germany's
enemies, for while German troops did not enter Belgium until the night from Aug. 3 to 4, Grey
gave on Aug. 2 the following memorandum to the French Ambassador after a session of the Cabinet
in London:

     I am authorized to give an assurance that if the German fleet comes
     into the Channel or through the North Sea to undertake hostile
     operations against French coasts or shipping, the British fleet
     will give all the protection in its power.--(British "White Paper"
     No. 148.)

As the aim of this decision, of which M. Cambon was informed verbally, was to give France an
assurance that it would be placed in a position "to settle the disposition of its own Mediterranean
fleet," Grey would not accept the version of Cambon that England would take part in a war with
Germany. This is a case of splitting hairs in order to put the blame of starting the war on
Germany, for while England promised to protect the French coast and to make it possible for
the French fleet to stay in the Mediterranean, she almost immediately proceeded to a warlike
action against Germany, especially as the English Minister simultaneously refused to bind himself
to maintain even this peculiar neutrality.

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.

BELGIAN NEUTRALITY.

The highest representatives of the German Empire with emphatic
seriousness declared that it was with a heavy heart and only following
the law of self-preservation that they decided to violate the neutrality
of the Kingdom of Belgium, guaranteed by the great powers in the
treaties of 1831 and 1839. Germany had
     consequently to disregard Belgian neutrality, it being with her a
     question of life or death to prevent French advance.--(British
     "White Paper" No. 157.)

In answer Grey caused the English Ambassador in Berlin to demand his passports and to tell
the German Government that England would take all steps for defense of Belgian neutrality.
This, therefore, represents, in the view which very cleverly has been spread broadcast by British
publicity, the real reason for the war. But in spite of the moral indignation that is apparent
against Germany, the consideration for Belgium, up until very late, does not seem in any way
to have been in the foreground. We find on July 31 Grey stated to Cambon:

     The preservation of the neutrality of Belgium might be, I would not
     say a decisive, but an important, factor in determining our
     attitude.--(British "White Paper" No. 119.)

Here, therefore, there was no talk about England grasping the sword on account of Belgium.
Now no one will claim that the assumption that the German troops could march through Belgium
would be new or unheard of. For years this possibility had been discussed in military literature.[04]

This expression on the part of the historical Faculty is very interesting. It shows that a
plan of campaign between the English and French had long been considered, and that the Belgian
entry into the alliance against Germany was a matter agreed upon.

A Sudden Decision.

It must also be assumed that the Belgian Government knew toward the end of July at the latest
that the war between Germany and France was probable and the march of Germans through Belgium
very possible.

If England had not taken part in the war against Germany, it may be assumed that it would have
given Belgium the advice to permit the marching through of the German Army, somewhat in the
same manner as the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg did, with a protest. In doing so the Belgian people
would have been spared a great deal of misery and loss of blood. No. 151.)

One day later London decided to make Belgian neutrality the cause of the war against Germany
before the eyes of the world. No. 155.)

Not until England thus stirred Belgium up, holding out the deceptive hope of effective French
and English help, did Belgian fanaticism break loose against Germany. Without the intervention
of England in Brussels the events in Belgium, one may safely assert, would have taken an entirely
different course, which would have been far more favorable to Belgium.

But, of course, England had thus found a very useful reason for war against Germany. Even on
the 31st of July Grey had spoken of the violation of Belgian neutrality as not a decisive factor.
On Aug. 1 he declined to promise Prince Lichnowsky England's neutrality, even if Germany would
not violate Belgium's neutrality. On Aug. 4, however, the Belgian question was the cause that
suddenly drove England to maintain the moral fabric of the world and to draw the sword.

This suddenly became the new development, which was still lacking for Grey in order to justify
this war before public opinion in England.

Another English Advantage.

And something else was secured by the drawing of Belgium into the war by the British Government,
which had decided to make war on Germany for entirely different reasons: the thankful part
of the protector of the weak and the oppressed.

As an English diplomat, when Russia was mobilizing, openly stated, the interests of his country
in Servia were nil, so for Grey even Belgium, immediately before the break with Germany, was
not decisive. However, when England had irrevocably decided to enter the war it stepped out
before the limelight of the world as the champion of--the small nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

[02] Recently a book entitled "Why We Make War," in defense of Great Britain, appeared at Oxford,
as the authors of which "Members of the Faculty for Modern History in Oxford" are mentioned.
This work undertakes, on the ground of the official publications, to whitewash Grey's policy,
and of course incidentally the Russian policy. All together this publication, parading in the
gown of science, is contradicted by our own presentation of the facts; it may be mentioned
also that this work contains in part positive untruths. Thus it states on Page 70 (retranslation):

     No diplomatic pressure whatever was exerted [by Germany] on Vienna,
     which, under the protection of Berlin, was permitted to do with
     Servia as she liked.

     Grey's own words contradict this assertion.

[03] In the aforementioned book of the Oxford historians there is stated on Page 69 (retranslation):

     This mediation [namely, Grey's mediation proposition] had already
     been accepted, by Russia on July 25th.

We have shown in the foregoing that the Russian Government did in no manner subscribe to the
conference plan in binding terms. No. 17.)

Hence, not if England, but only if Servia would propose arbitration by the powers, Mr. Sazonof
was willing! The most amusing part of this is that the Russian Minister himself considers such
a proposition on the part of Servia merely as "possible"; evidently it would have appeared
as a great condescension on the part of the Government at Belgrade if it, standing on the same
basis as Austria-Hungary, would appear before a European tribunal! For us there is no additional
proof necessary that a mediation conference, which for Austria was not acceptable even when
proposed by England, would be unthinkable if the move for such came from Servia. In expressing
such an idea. Mr. Sazonof proved that it was his intention to bring war about.

[04] The book, which appeared at Oxford, "Why We Are at War," mentioned previously states on
Page 27 (retranslation):

     That such a plan [the marching through Luxemburg and Belgium] had
     been taken into consideration by the Germans has been known in
     England generally for several years; and it has also been generally
     accepted that the attempt to carry out this plan would bring about
     the active resistance of the British armed forces: one assumed that
     these would be given the task of assisting the left wing of the
     French, which would have to resist German advance from Belgian
     territory.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Truth About Germany"

       *       *       *       *       *

Attested by Thirty-four German Dignitaries.[05]

Board of Editors.

     Paul Dehn, Schriftsteller, Berlin.

     Dr. Drechsler, Direktor des Amerika-Instituts, Berlin.

     Matthias Erzberger, Mitglied des Reichstags, Berlin.

     Prof. Dr. Francke, Berlin.

     B. Huldermann, Direktor der Hamburg-Amerika Linie, Hamburg.

     Dr. Ernst Jaeckh, Berlin.

     D. Naumann, Mitglied des Reichstags, Berlin.

     Graf von Oppersdorff, Mitglied des preussischen Herrenhauses,
       Mitglied des Reichstags, Berlin.

     Graf zu Reventlow, Schriftsteller, Charlottenburg.

     Dr. Paul Rohrbach, Dozent an der Handelshochschule, Berlin.

     Dr. Schacht, Direktor der Dresdner Bank, Berlin.

Honorary Committee.

     Ballin, Vorsitzender des Direktoriums der Hamburg-Amerika Linie,
       Hamburg.

     Fürst von Bülow, Hamburg.

     Dr. R.W. Drechsler, Direktor des Amerika-Instituts, Berlin.

     D. Dryander, Ober-Hof-und Domprediger, Berlin.

     Dr. Freiherr von der Goltz, Generalfeldmarschall, Berlin.

     Von Gwinner, Direktor der Deutschen Bank, Berlin.

     Prof. Dr. von Harnack, Berlin.

     Fürst von Hatzfeldt, Herzog zu Trachenberg.

     Dr. Heineken, Direktor des Norddeutschen Lloyds, Bremen.

     Fürst Henckel von Donnersmarck.

     Dr. Kaempf, Praesident des Reichstags, Berlin.

     Prof. Dr. Eugen Kühnemann, Breslau.

     Prof. Dr. Lamprecht, Leipsic.

     Dr. Theodor Lewald, Direktor im Reichsamt des Innern, Berlin.

     Franz von Mendelssohn, Praesident der Handelskammer, Berlin.

     Fürst Münster-Derneburg, Mitglied des Herrenhauses.

     Graf von Oppersdorff, Mitglied des Herrenhauses und des Reichstags,
       Berlin.

     Graf von Posadowsky-Wehner.

     Dr. Walther Rathenau, Berlin.

     Viktor Herzog von Ratibor.

     Dr. Schmidt, Ministerialdirektor, Berlin.

     Prof. Dr. von Schmoller, Berlin.

     Graf von Schwerin-Löwitz, Praesident des Hauses der Abgeordneten.

     Wilhelm von Siemens, Berlin.

     Friedrich Fürst zu Solms-Baruth.

     Max Warburg, Hamburg.

     Siegfried Wagner, Baireuth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Try to realize, every one of you, what we are going through! Only a few weeks ago all of us
were peacefully following our several vocations. The peasant was gathering in this Summer's
plentiful crop, the factory hand was working with accustomed vigor. Not one human being among
us dreamed of war. We are a nation that wishes to lead a quiet and industrious life. This need
hardly be stated to you Americans. You, of all others, know the temper of the German who lives
within your gates. Our love of peace is so strong that it is not regarded by us in the light
of a virtue, we simply know it to be an inborn and integral portion of ourselves. Since the
foundation of the German Empire in the year 1871, we, living in the centre of Europe, have
given an example of tranquillity and peace, never once seeking to profit by any momentary difficulties
of our neighbors. Our commercial extension, our financial rise in the world, is far removed
from any love of adventure, it is the fruit of painstaking and plodding labor.

We are not credited with this temper, because we are insufficiently known. Our situation and
our way of thinking are not easily grasped.

Every one is aware that we have produced great philosophers and poets, we have preached the
gospel of humanity with impassioned zeal. America fully appreciates Goethe and Kant, looks
upon them as cornerstones of elevated culture. Do you really believe that we have changed our
natures, that our souls can be satisfied with military drill and servile obedience? We are
soldiers because we have to be soldiers, because otherwise Germany and German civilization
would be swept away from the face of the earth. It has cost us long and weary struggles to
attain our independence, and we know full well that, in order to preserve it, we must not content
ourselves with building schools and factories, we must look to our garrisons and forts. We
and all our soldiers have remained, however, the same lovers of music and lovers of exalted
thought. We have retained our old devotion to all peaceable sciences and arts; as all the world
knows, we work in the foremost rank of all those who strive to advance the exchange of commodities,
who further useful technical knowledge. But we have been forced to become a nation of soldiers
in order to be free. And we are bound to follow our Kaiser, because he symbolizes and represents
the unity of our nation. Today, knowing no distinction of party, no difference of opinion,
we rally around him, willing to shed the last drop of our blood. For though it takes a great
deal to rouse us Germans, when once aroused our feelings run deep and strong. Every one is
filled with this passion, with the soldier's ardor. But when the waters of the deluge shall
have subsided, gladly will we return to the plow and to the anvil.

It deeply distresses us to see two highly civilized nations, England and France, joining the
onslaught of autocratic Russia. That this could happen will remain one of the anomalies of
history. It is not our fault; we firmly believed in the desirability of the great nations working
together, we peaceably came to terms with France and England in sundry difficult African questions.
There was no cause for war between Western Europe and us, no reason why Western Europe should
feel itself constrained to further the power of the Czar.

The Czar, as an individual, is most certainly not the instigator of the unspeakable horrors
that are now inundating Europe. But he bears before God and posterity the responsibility of
having allowed himself to be terrorized by an unscrupulous military clique.

Ever since the weight of the crown has pressed upon him, he has been the tool of others. He
did not desire the brutalities in Finland, he did not approve of the iniquities of the Jewish
pogroms, but his hand was too weak to stop the fury of the reactionary party. Why would he
not permit Austria to pacify her southern frontier? It was inconceivable that Austria should
calmly see her heir apparent murdered. How could she? All the nationalities under her rule
realized the impossibility of tamely allowing Servia's only too evident and successful intrigues
to be carried on under her very eyes. The Austrians could not allow their venerable and sorely
stricken monarch to be wounded and insulted any longer. This reasonable and honorable sentiment
on the part of Austria has caused Russia to put itself forward as the patron of Servia, as
the enemy of European thought and civilization.

Russia has an important mission to fulfill in its own country and in Asia. It would do better
in its own interest to leave the rest of the world in peace. But the die is cast, and all nations
must decide whether they wish to further us by sentiments and by deeds, or the government of
the Czar. This is the real significance of this appalling struggle, all the rest is immaterial.
Russia's attitude alone has forced us to go to war with France and with their great ally.

The German Nation is serious and conscientious. Never would a German Government dare to contemplate
a war for the sake of dynastic interest, or for the sake of glory. This would be against the
entire bent of our character. Firmly believing in the justice of our cause, all parties, the
Conservatives and the Clericals, the Liberals and the Socialists, have joined hands. All disputes
are forgotten, one duty exists for all, the duty of defending our country and vanquishing the
enemy.

Will not this calm, self-reliant and unanimous readiness to sacrifice all, to die or to win,
appeal to other nations and force them to understand our real character and the situation in
which we are placed?

The war has severed us from the rest of the world, all our cable communications are destroyed.
But the winds will carry the mighty voice of justice even across the ocean. We trust in God,
we have confidence in the judgment of right-minded men. And through the roar of battle, we
call to you all. Do not believe the mischievous lies that our enemies are spreading about!
We do not know if victory will be ours, the Lord alone knows. We have not chosen our path,
we must continue doing our duty, even to the very end. We bear the misery of war, the death
of our sons, believing in Germany, believing in duty.

And we know that Germany cannot be wiped from the face of the earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

[05]

     "Athenwood," Newport, R.I.,

     Sept. 17, 1914.

     Today I have received from Germany a pamphlet entitled "Truth About
     Germany, Facts About the War." The correctness and completeness of
     its statements are vouched for by thirty-four persons, whose names
     are recorded therein as members of an Honorary Committee. I know
     personally seventeen of these thirty-four persons, and have known
     them for years, some of them intimately. With six of them I have
     labored as a colleague in university work. I have been introduced
     into their homes, have broken bread at their tables and have
     conversed with them long and often upon the problems of life and
     culture. They are among the greatest thinkers, moralists and
     philanthropists of the age. They are the salt of the earth! Two of them are, in a sense, our own
     countrywomen, the Baroness Speck von Sternburg and Frau
     Staats-minister von Trott zu Solz. The latter is the granddaughter
     of our own John Jay. I have known her, her mother and her
     grandfather. No statement was ever issued which was vouched for by
     more solid, intelligent, and conscientious people. Its correctness,
     completeness and veracity cannot be doubted. As I read it the
     emotions which it arouses make both speech and sight difficult. I
     wish it might come into the hands of every man, woman, and child in
     the United States.

Under the head of "An Anti-British Pamphlet," The London Times of Aug. 23, 1914, noted as follows:

     The Vossischezeitung gives extracts from a brochure issued under
     the auspices of a committee of such prominent Germans as Prince
     Bülow, Herr Ballin, Dr. von Gwinner, and Field Marshal von der
     Goltz, for the purpose of "opening the eyes" of the United States
     regarding the causes of the present war. Copies of this pamphlet
     are being given to all Americans returning home from Germany. One
     chapter, headed "Neutrality by Grace of England," scoffs at the
     idea of England today being the defender of neutral States and
     declares that it was England who in 1911 was ready to land 160,000
     men at Antwerp to help the French against the Germans.

     As to who will ultimately win in the war, the pamphlet asks whether
     it will be the striving nation, the young strength, or the old
     peoples, France and England, with their flagging civilization in
     alliance with Muscovite retrogression.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW THE WAR CAME ABOUT.

Who is responsible for the war?--Not Germany! England's policy! Her shifting of responsibility
and promoting the struggle while alone possessing power to avert it.

It is an old and common experience that after the outbreak of a war the very parties and persons
that wanted the war, either at once or later, assert that the enemy wanted and began it. The
German Empire especially always had to suffer from such untruthful assertions, and the very
first days of the present terrible European war confirm again this old experience. Again Russian,
French, and British accounts represent the German Empire as having wanted the war.

Only a few months ago influential men and newspapers of Great Britain as well as of Paris could
be heard to express the opinion that nobody in Europe wanted war and that especially the German
Emperor and his Government had sincerely and effectively been working for peace. Especially
the English Government, in the course of the last two years, asserted frequently and publicly,
and was supported by The Westminster Gazette and a number of influential English newspapers
in the assertion, that Great Britain and the German Empire during the Balkan crisis of the
last few years had always met on the same platform for the preservation of peace. The late
Secretary of State, von Kiderlen-Waechter, his successor, Mr. von Jagow, and the Imperial Chancellor,
von Bethmann-Hollweg, likewise declared repeatedly in the Reichstag, how great their satisfaction
was that a close and confidential diplomatic co-operation with Great Britain, especially in
questions concerning the Near East, had become a fact. And it has to be acknowledged today
that at that time the German and British interests in the Near East were identical or at any
rate ran in parallel lines.

The collapse of European Turkey in the war against the Balkan Alliance created an entirely
new situation. At first Bulgaria was victorious and great, then it was beaten and humiliated
by the others with the intellectual help of Russia. There could be no doubt about Russia's
intentions: she was preparing for the total subjection of weakened Turkey and for taking possession
of the Dardanelles and Constantinople in order to rule from this powerful position Turkey and
the other Balkan States. Great Britain and the German Empire, which only had economic interests
in Turkey, were bound to wish to strengthen Turkey besides trying to prevent the Muscovite
rule on the whole Balkan peninsula.

Servia had come out of the second Balkan war greatly strengthened and with her territory very
much increased. Russia had done everything to strengthen this bitter enemy of our ally, Austria-Hungary.
For a great number of years Servian politicians and conspirators had planned to undermine the
southeastern provinces of Austria-Hungary and to separate them from the Dual Monarchy. In Servia
as well as in Russia prevailed the opinion that, at the first attack, Austria-Hungary would
fall to pieces. In this case Servia was to receive South Austria and Russia was to dictate
the peace in Vienna. The Balkan war had ruined Turkey almost entirely, had paralyzed Bulgaria,
that was friendly, and had strengthened the Balkan States that were hostile to Austria. At
the same time there began in Rumania a Russian and French propaganda, that promised this country,
if it should join the dual alliance, the Hungarian Province of Siebenbuergen.

Thus it became evident in Germany and in Austria that at St. Petersburg, first by diplomatic
and political, then also by military, action a comprehensive attack of Slavism under Russian
guidance was being prepared. The party of the Grand Dukes in St. Petersburg, the party of the
Russian officers, always ready for war, and the Pan-Slavists, the brutal and unscrupulous representatives
of the idea that the Russian Czarism was destined to rule Europe--all these declared openly
that their aim was the destruction of Austria-Hungary. In Russia the army, already of an immense
size, was increased secretly but comprehensively and as quick as possible; in Servia the same
was done, and the Russian Ambassador in Belgrade, Mr. von Hartwig, was, after the second Balkan
war, the principal promoter of the plan to form against Austria a new Balkan alliance. In Bosnia,
during all this time, the Servian propaganda was at work with high treason, and in the end
with revolver and the bomb.

In Vienna and in Berlin the greatness and the purpose of the new danger could not remain doubtful,
especially as it was openly said in St. Petersburg, in Belgrade, and elsewhere that the destruction
of Austria-Hungary was imminent. As soon as the Balkan troubles began Austria-Hungary had been
obliged to put a large part of her army in readiness for war, because the Russians and Servians
had mobilized on their frontiers. The Germans felt that what was a danger for their ally was
also a danger for them and that they must do all in the power to maintain Austria-Hungary in
the position of a great power. They felt that this could only be done by keeping perfect faith
with their ally and by great military strength, so that Russia might possibly be deterred from
war and peace be preserved, or else that, in case war was forced upon them, they could wage
it with honor and success. Now it was clear in Berlin that in view of the Russian and Servian
preparations, Austria-Hungary, in case of a war, would be obliged to use a great part of her
forces against Servia and therefore would have to send against Russia fewer troops than would
have been possible under the conditions formerly prevailing in Europe. Formerly even European
Turkey could have been counted upon for assistance, that after her recent defeat seemed very
doubtful. These reasons and considerations, which were solely of a defensive nature, led to
the great German military bills of the last two years. Also Austria-Hungary was obliged to
increase its defensive strength.

Whoever considers carefully the course of events that has been briefly sketched here will pronounce
the assertion of our enemies, that Germany wanted the war, ridiculous and absurd. On the contrary,
it can be said that Germany never before endeavored more eagerly to preserve peace than during
the last few years. Germany had plenty of opportunities to attack and good opportunities to
boot, for we knew for years that the army of France was no more ready than that of Russia.
But the Germans are not a warlike nation and the German Emperor, with his Government, has always
shown how earnestly he meant his reiterated assertions that the preservation of peace was his
principal aim. He was actuated in this by general considerations of humanity, justice, and
culture, as well as by the consideration of the German trade and commerce. This, especially
the transoceanic commerce of Germany, has increased from year to year. War, however, means
the ruin of commerce. Why expose Germany needlessly to this terrible risk, especially as everything
in Germany prospered and her wealth increased? No, the German Army bills were merely meant
to protect us against, and prepare us for, the attacks of Muscovite barbarism. But nobody in
Germany has ever doubted for a moment that France would attack us at the first Russian signal.
Since the first days of the Franco-Russian alliance things have become entirely reversed. Then
France wanted to win Russia for a war of revenge against Germany; now, on the contrary, France
thought herself obliged to place her power and her existence at the disposal of the Russian
lust of conquest.

In the Spring of 1914 the German press reported from St. Petersburg detailed accounts of Russia's
comprehensive preparations for war. They were not denied in Russia, and Paris declared that
Russia would be ready in two or three years and then pursue a policy corresponding to her power;
France, too, would then be at the height of her power. If the German Government had desired
war, on the strength of these accounts, which were true, it could have waged a preventive war
at once and easily. It did not do so, considering that a war is just only when it is forced
upon one by the enemy. Thus Spring went by with the atmosphere at high tension. From St. Petersburg
and Paris overbearing threats came in increasing numbers to the effect that the power of the
Dual Alliance was now gigantic and that Germany and Austria soon would begin to feel it. We
remained quiet and watchful, endeavoring with perseverance and with all our might to win over
Great Britain to the policy of preserving peace. Colonial and economic questions were being
discussed by the German and English Governments, and the cordiality between the two great powers
seemed only to be equaled by their mutual confidence.

Then on the 28th of June occurred that frightful assassination by Servians of the successor
to the Austro-Hungarian throne, Archduke Francis Ferdinand. The Greater Servia propaganda of
action had put aside the man who was especially hated in Servia as the powerful exponent of
Austro-Hungarian unity and strength. This murder is the real cause of the present European
war. Austria-Hungary was able to prove to a shuddering world, a few days after the murder,
that it had been prepared and planned systematically, yea, that the Servian Government had
been cognizant of the plan. The immense extent of the Servian revolutionary organization in
the provinces of Southern Austria, the warlike spirit of the Servians and its instigation by
Russia and France, imposed upon the Vienna Government the duty to insist upon quiet and peace
within and without its borders. It addressed to the Servian Government a number of demands
which aimed at nothing but the suppression of the anti-Austrian propaganda. Servia was on the
point of accepting the demand, when there arrived a dispatch from St. Petersburg, and Servia
mobilized. Then Austria, too, had to act. Thus arose the Austro-Servian war. But a few days
later the Russian Army was being mobilized, and the mobilization was begun also in France.
At the same time, as the German "White Book" clearly proves, the diplomacy of Russia and France
asserted its great love of peace and tried to prolong the negotiations in order to gain time,
for, as is well known, the Russian mobilization proceeds slowly. Germany was waiting, and again
and again the German Emperor tried to win the Czar over to the preservation of peace, for he
considered him sincere and thought him his personal friend. Emperor William was to be cruelly
disappointed. He finally saw himself obliged to proclaim a state of war for Germany. But at
that time the Russian and French armies were already in a state of complete mobilization. At
that time The London Daily Graphic wrote the following article, which shows how an English
paper that was only slightly friendly to Germany judged of the situation at that time:

     The Mobilization Mystery.

     A general mobilization has been ordered in Russia, and Germany has
     responded by proclaiming martial law throughout the empire. We are
     now enabled to measure exactly the narrow and slippery ledge which
     still stands between Europe and the abyss of Armageddon. Will the
     Russian order be acted upon in the provinces adjoining the German
     frontier? If it is, then the work of the peacemakers is at an end,
     for Germany is bound to reply with a mobilization of her own armed
     forces, and a rush to the frontiers on all sides must ensue. We
     confess that we are unable to understand the action of Russia in
     view of the resumption of the negotiations with Austria. It is not
     likely that these negotiations have been resumed unless both sides
     think that there is yet a chance of agreement, but if this is the
     case, why the mobilization which goes far beyond the limits of
     necessary precaution, and is, indeed, calculated to defeat the
     efforts of the diplomatists, however promising they may be? There
     may, of course, be a satisfactory explanation, but as the matter
     stands it is inexplicable, and is all the more regrettable because
     it is calculated--we feel sure unjustly--to cast doubts on the
     loyalty and straightforwardness of the Russian Government.

When Russia had let pass the time limit set by Germany, when France had answered that she would
act according to her own interests, then the German Empire had to mobilize its army and go
ahead. Before one German soldier had crossed the German frontier a large number of French aeroplanes
came flying into our country across the neutral territory of Belgium and Luxemburg without
a word of warning on the part of the Belgian Government. At the same time the German Government
learned that the French were about to enter Belgium. Then our Government, with great reluctance,
had to decide upon requesting the Belgian Government to allow our troops to march through its
territory. Belgium was to be indemnified after the war, was to retain its sovereignty and integrity.
Belgium protested, at the same time allowing, by an agreement with France, that the French
troops might enter Belgium. After all this, and not till France and Belgium itself had broken
the neutrality, our troops entered the neutral territory. Germany wanted nothing from Belgium,
but had to prevent that Belgian soil be used as a gate of entrance into German territory.

Little has as yet been said of Great Britain. It was Germany's conviction that the sincerity
of Britain's love for peace could be trusted. At any rate, Sir Edward Grey and Mr. Asquith
asserted again and again in the course of the last few years that England wished friendly relations
with Germany and never would lend its support to a Franco-Russian attack on Germany. Now this
attack had been made; Germany was on the defensive against two powerful enemies. What would
Great Britain do about it? That was the question. Great Britain asked in return for its neutrality
that the German forces should not enter Belgium. In other words, it asked that Germany should
allow the French and Belgian troops to form on Belgian territory for a march against our frontier!
This we could not allow. It would have been suicidal. The German Government made Great Britain,
in return for its neutrality, the following offers: we would not attack the northern coast
of France, we would leave unmolested the maritime commerce of France and would indemnify Belgium
after the war and safeguard its sovereignty and integrity. In spite of this Great Britain declared
war on Germany and sides today with those Continental powers that have united for our destruction,
in order that Muscovite barbarism may rule Europe. We know that Germany did not deserve such
treatment on the part of Great Britain, and do not believe that Great Britain by this action
did a service to humanity and civilization.

Today we are facing hard facts. Germany has to fight for her existence. She will fight knowing
that the great powers beyond the ocean will do her justice as soon as they know the truth.

       *       *       *       *       *

REICHSTAG AND EMPEROR.

England, France, and Russia, unthreatened by Germany, go to war for political reasons--Germany
defends her independence and fights for her very existence, for her future as a great power--How
a peaceful people were imbued with the spirit of war.

The last days of the month of July were days of anxiety and distress for the German people.
They hoped that they would be permitted to preserve an honorable peace. A few months earlier,
in 1913, when the centennial of the war for independence from French oppression and the twenty-fifth
anniversary of Emperor William's ascent of the throne had been celebrated, they had willingly
taken upon their shoulders the great sacrifice of the so-called "Wehrvorlage," which increased
the peace strength of the standing army enormously and cost 1,000,000,000 marks. They considered
it simply as an increase of their peace insurance premium. Our diplomats worked hard for the
maintenance of peace, for the localization of the Austro-Servian war. So sure were the leading
men of the empire of the preservation of general peace that at the beginning of the week which
was to bring general mobilization they said to each other joyfully: Next week our vacation
time begins. But they were fearfully disappointed. Russia's unexpected, treacherous mobilization
compelled Germany to draw the sword also. On the evening of the first day of August the one
word, Mobilization! was flashed by the electric spark all over the country. There was no more
anxiety and uncertainty. Cool, firm resolution at once permeated the entire German folk. The
Reichstag was called together for an extra session.

Three days later, on the anniversary of the battles of Weissenburg and Spichern, the representatives
of the German people met. This session, which lasted only a few hours, proved worthy of the
great historical moment marking the beginning of such a conflagration as the world had never
seen before. The railroad lines were under military control and used almost exclusively for
purposes of mobilization. In spite of all such difficulties, more than 300 of the 397 Deputies
managed to get to Berlin in time. The rest sent word that they were unable to come. On the
evening of Aug. 3 the Imperial Chancellor called the leaders of all parties, including the
Socialists, to his house and explained to them in a concise and impressive statement how frivolously
Germany had been driven to war. At the time of this meeting the unanimous acceptance of all
war measures by the Reichstag was already assured. In numerous conferences the heads of the
several departments explained the content and meaning of the bills to be submitted to the Reichstag.
The participants of the conferences showed already what spirit would characterize the next
day. The session of the Reichstag filled the entire German nation with pride and enthusiasm;
the Reichstag maintained the dignity of the German Empire and the German people.

In greater numbers than ever before the Deputies, high officers of the army and navy and the
Civil Government assembled on Aug. 4, first in houses of worship to pray to God, and then in
the Royal Castle of Berlin. The military character of the ceremony at the opening of the session
showed under what auspices this memorable act took place. The Kaiser entered the hall in the
simple gray field uniform, without the usual pomp, unaccompanied by chamberlains and court
officials and pages in glittering court dresses. Only State Ministers, Generals, and Admirals
followed him to the throne, from where he read his speech, after covering his head with his
helmet. His voice betrayed the strain under which he was laboring. Repeatedly he was interrupted
by enthusiastic applause, and when he closed, a rousing cheer thundered through the famous
White Hall, something that had never before occurred there since the erection of the old castle.
Then came a surprise. The Emperor laid down the manuscript of his speech and continued speaking.
From now on he knew only Germans, he said, no differences of party, creed, religion or social
position, and he requested the party leaders to give him their hands as a pledge that they
all would stand by him "in Not und Tod"--in death and distress. This scene was entirely impromptu,
and thus so much more impressive and touching. And it was hardly over when the Reichstag--an
unheard of proceeding in such surroundings--began to sing the German national hymn, "Heil Dir
im Siegerkranz." The magnificent hall, until then only the scene of pompous court festivities,
witnessed an outburst of patriotism such as was never seen there before. To the accompaniment
of loud cheers the Kaiser walked out, after shaking the hands of the Imperial Chancellor and
the Chief of the General Staff, von Moltke.

One hour later the Reichstag met in its own house. The Emperor had begged for quick and thorough
work. He was not to be disappointed. Without any formalities the presiding officers of the
last session were re-elected--in times of peace and party strife this would have been impossible.
This short curtain raiser being over, the first act of the drama began. Before an overcrowded
house the Chancellor described simply and clearly the efforts of the Government for the preservation
of peace. He stated cold facts, showing unmistakably Russia's double dealing and justifying
Germany's beginning of a war which she did not want. The Chancellor had begun in a quiet, subdued
tone. Then he raised his voice and when, in words that rang through the hall, he declared that
the entire nation was united, the Deputies and the spectators in the galleries could sit still
no longer. They rose, with them at first some Socialists, then all of them, carried away by
the impulse of the moment; the members of the Federal Council, of the press, diplomats and
the crowds in the galleries joined them. The whole multitude cheered and clapped its hands
frantically. It reflected truly the spirit of the whole nation. The Speaker, who under ordinary
circumstances would have suppressed the clapping of hands as unparliamentary and the demonstrations
of the galleries as undignified, let the patriotic outburst go on to its end.

After a short intermission the business meeting began. Sixteen war measures had been introduced,
the most important of which was the one asking for 5,000,000,000 marks to carry on the war.
The leader of the Social Democrats read a statement explaining why his party, despite its opposition
on principle to all army and navy appropriations, would vote for the proposed bills. Without
further debates all the bills were passed, and shortly after 5 P.M. the Reichstag adjourned.
At 7 P.M. the Emperor received the presiding officers of the Reichstag to thank them for their
prompt and useful work. He signed the bills, which were immediately published and thus became laws.

The resolute attitude and quick work of the Reichstag reflected the unity and resolution of
the entire nation. Sixty-seven millions of Germans feel, think, and act with their elected
representatives. No party, no class, no creed is standing back; all are imbued with one single
thought: United Germany is unconquerable.

The entire German people are united as never before in their history. Even 101 years ago, in
1813, the entire population cannot have been so uniformly seized by the spirit of war as at
the outbreak of this struggle, which is the people's war in the truest sense of the word, and
which was predicted by Bismarck. All reigning Princes are going out to fight with the army
and have appointed their wives as regents. Instances include the Kaiser's son-in-law, the Duke
of Brunswick, who appointed his consort, the only daughter of the Emperor, as regent. The Princes
call their people to arms, and they themselves all stand ready to sacrifice all they have.
This example from above carries the nation with them. The Reichstag knew parties and factions
no more, and neither does the nation. The Emperor sounded the word which has become common
property from Königsberg to Constance, from Upper Silesia to the Belgian frontier: "I know
only Germans!" And yet how terribly is our nation otherwise disrupted by party strife. Ill-advised
persons across our frontiers hoped that creed differences would make for disunion, Frenchmen
and Russians expected to weaken our empire with the aid of Alsatians and Poles. This hope has
been destroyed--we are a united people, as united as was the Reichstag, the Socialists included.
The latter have for years voted against all army and navy appropriations, have advocated international
peace, and last year voted against the bills increasing the army strength. In many foreign
quarters strong hopes were nourished that this party would help them. But those men did not
know our German people. Our civilization, our independence as a nation was threatened, and
in that moment party interest or creed existed no more. The true German heart is beating only
for the Fatherland, east and west, north and south, Protestants, Catholics, and Jews are "a
united people of brethren in the hour of danger." When Germany was so threatened by Russia,
when the German "Peace Emperor" was shamefully betrayed by the Czar of all the Russians, then
there was but one sacred party in existence: The party of Germans.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GERMAN MOBILIZATION.

The clockworks of mobilization; perfect order and quiet everywhere--General acceptance by all
classes and factions of the necessities of a war not sought by Germany.

The German mobilization was the greatest movement of people that the world has ever seen. Nearly
four million men had to be transported from every part of the empire to her borders. The manner
in which the population is distributed made this task extremely difficult. Berlin, Rhenish
Westphalia, Upper Silesia and Saxony especially had to send their contingents in every direction,
since the eastern provinces are more thinly settled and had to have a stronger guard for the
borders immediately. The result was a hurrying to and fro of thousands and hundreds of thousands
of soldiers, besides a flood of civilians who had to reach their homes as soon as possible.
Countries where the population is more regularly distributed have an easier task than Germany,
with its predominating urban population. The difficulties of the gigantic undertaking were
also increased by the necessity for transporting war materials of every sort. In the west are
chiefly industrial undertakings, in the east mainly agricultural. Horse raising is mostly confined
to the provinces on the North Sea and the Baltic, but chiefly to East Prussia, and this province,
the furthest away from France, had to send its best horses to the western border, as did also
Schleswig-Holstein and Hanover. Coal for our warships had to go in the other direction. From
the Rhenish mines it went to the North Sea, from Upper Silesia to the Baltic. Ammunition and
heavy projectiles were transported from the central part of the empire to the borders. And
everywhere these operations had to be carried on with haste. One can thus say that the German
mobilization was the greatest movement of men and materials that the world has ever seen.

And how was it carried on? No one could have wondered if there had been hundreds of unforeseen
incidents, if military trains had arrived at their stations with great delays, if there had
resulted in many places a wild hugger-mugger from the tremendous problems on hand. But there
was not a trace of this. On the Monday evening of the first week of mobilization a high officer
of the General Staff said: "It had to go well today, but how about tomorrow, the main day?"
Tuesday evening saw no reason for complaint, no delay, no requests for instructions. All had
moved with the regularity of clockwork. Regiments that had been ordered to mobilize in the
forenoon left in the evening for the field, fully equipped. Not a man was lacking. There were
no deserters, no shirkers, no cowards. Instead, there were volunteers whose numbers far exceeded
the number that could be used. Every German wanted to do his duty.

The most noteworthy thing was the earnest quietness with which the gigantic gathering proceeded.
Not a city, not a village reported unrest or even an untoward incident. The separation was
hard for many a soldier. Many a volunteer tore himself away from his dear ones with bleeding
heart, but with face beaming with the light of one who looks forward to victory. Following
the Kaiser's wish, those who remained behind filled the churches and, kneeling, prayed to God
for victory for the just German cause. The folk-war, brought on by the wantonness of the opponents,
in itself brought peace and order, safety and discipline. Never, probably, have the police
had fewer excesses to deal with than in the days of the mobilization, although great crowds
gathered constantly in every city.

The best criterion of the enthusiasm of the people is without doubt the number of volunteers.
More than 1,000,000 of these, a number greater than that of the standing army, presented themselves
within a few days. They came from all classes. There were sons of the nobility, university
students, farmers, merchants, common laborers. No calling hung back. Every young man sorrowed
when he was rejected. No section of the Fatherland was unrepresented, not even the Reichsland
Alsace-Lorraine, where, indeed, the number of volunteers was conspicuously great. When the
lists in various cities had to be closed, the young men who had not been accepted turned away
with tears in their eyes, and telegraphed from regiment to regiment, hoping to find one where
there were still vacancies. Where the sons of the wealthy renounced the pleasures of youth
and the comforts of their homes to accept the hardships of war in serving the Fatherland, the
poor and the poorest appeared in like degree. In families having four or five sons subject
to military duty a youngest son, not yet liable for service, volunteered. The year 1870, truly
a proud year in our history, saw nothing like this.

A thing that raised the national enthusiasm still higher was the appearance of the troops in
brand-new uniforms, complete from head to foot. The first sight of these new uniforms of modest
field gray, faultlessly made, evoked everywhere the question: Where did they come from? On
the first day of mobilization dozens of cloth manufacturers appeared at the War Ministry with
offers of the new material. "We don't need any," was the astonishing reply. Equal amazement
was caused by the faultless new boots and shoes of the troops, especially in view of the recent
famous "boot speech" of the French Senator Humbert.

Small arms, cannons, and ammunition are so plentiful that they have merely to be unpacked.
In view of all this, it is no wonder that the regiments marching in were everywhere greeted
with jubilation, and that those marching out took leave of their garrisons with joyful songs.
No one thinks of death and destruction, every one of victory and a happy reunion. German discipline,
once so slandered, now celebrates its triumph.

There was still another matter in which the troops gave their countrymen cause for rejoicing.
Not one drunken man was seen during these earnest days in the city streets. The General Staff
had, moreover, wisely ordered that during the mobilization, when every one had money in his
pockets, alcoholic drinks were not to be sold at the railroad stations. Despite this, the soldiers
did not lack for refreshments on their journey. Women and girls offered their services to the
Red Cross, and there was no station where coffee, tea, milk, and substantial food were not
at the disposal of the soldiers. They were not required to suffer hunger or any other discomfort.
The German anti-alcoholists are rejoicing at this earnest tribute to their principles, which
were at first laughed at and then pitied, but triumphed in the days of the mobilization.

The army is increased to many times its ordinary strength by the mobilization. It draws from
everywhere millions of soldiers, workmen, horses, wagons, and other material. The entire railway
service is at its disposal. The mobilization of the fleet goes on more quietly and less conspicuously,
but not less orderly and smoothly. Indeed, it is, even in peace times, practically mobilized
as to its greatest and strongest units. For this reason its transports are smaller than those
of the army; they are concentrated in a few harbors, and, therefore, do not attract so much
public attention. The naval transports, working according to plans in connection with those
of the army, have moved their quotas of men and materials with the most punctual exactitude.
The naval reserve of fully trained officers and men is practically inexhaustible. The faithful
work of our shipbuilding concerns, carried on uninterruptedly day and night under plans carefully
prepared in time of peace, has wrought for our navy a strong increase in powerful warships.

As is known, the German fleet is built on the so-called "assumption-of-risk" plan. That is,
it is intended that it shall be so strong that even the strongest sea power, in a conflict
with the Germans, risks forfeiting its former rôle as a world factor. This "risk" idea has
been hammered into the heart of every German seaman, and they are all eager to win for the
fleet such glory that it can be favorably contrasted with the deeds of the old and the new armies.

Contrary to general expectation, the German fleet has taken the offensive, and the first loss
of the war was on the English side and in English waters, the English cruiser Amphion running
on to German mines in the mouth of the Thames. In the Baltic and the Mediterranean also German
ships have taken the offensive against the enemies' coast, as is shown by the bombardment by
the Germans of the war harbor of Libau and of fortified landing places on the Algerian coast.

Thus the fleet, confiding in the "risk" idea now proved to be true, and in its earnest and
courageous spirit, may look forward with confidence to coming events.

But will not civilians have to hunger and thirst in these days? That is an earnest question.
The answer is, No. Even in Berlin, city of millions, the milk supply did not fail for a day.
Infants will not have to bear the privations of war. All provisions are to be had at reasonable
prices. Empire, municipalities and merchants are working successfully together to insure that
there shall be a sufficient food supply at not too great a cost. Not only is our great army
mobilized, but the whole folk is mobilized, and the distribution of labor, the food question
and the care of the sick and wounded are all being provided for. The whole German folk has
become a gigantic war camp, all are mobilized to protect Kaiser, Folk and Fatherland, as the
closing report of the Reichstag put it. And all Germany pays the tribute of a salute to the
chiefs of the army and navy, who work with deeds, not words.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARMY AND NAVY.

The German Army and Navy on the watch--Four million German men in the field--Thousands of volunteers
join the colors to fight for Germany's existence, among them the flower of her scientific and
artistic life.

There can be no greater contrast than that between the United States and Germany in one of
the most important questions of existence with which a State is confronted. In its whole history
the United States has never had a foreign hostile force of invaders upon its territory, foreign
armies have never laid waste its fields. Until late in the last century, however, Germany was
the battlefield for the then most powerful nations of Europe. The numerous German States and
provinces, too, fought among themselves, often on behalf of foreign powers. The European great
powers of that day were able, unhindered and unpunished, to take for themselves piece after
piece of German territory. In the United States, on the other hand, it was years before the
steadily increasing population attained to the boundaries set for it by nature.

Our Bismarck was finally able, in the years from 1864 to 1871, to create a great empire from
the many small German States. As he himself often remarked, however, this was possible only
because his policies and diplomacy rested upon and were supported by a well trained and powerful
army. How the German Empire came into being at that time is well known. A war was necessary
because of the fact that the then so powerful France did not desire that North and South Germany
should unite. She was not able to prevent this union, was defeated and had to give back to
us two old German provinces which she had stolen from the Germans. The old Field Marshal von
Moltke said not long after the war of 1870-71 that the Germans would still have to defend Alsace-Lorraine
for fifty years more. Perhaps he little realized how prophetic his words were, but he and those
who followed him, the German Emperors and the German War Ministers, prepared themselves for
this coming defensive struggle and unremittingly devoted their attention to the German Army.

From 1887 on there had been no doubt that in the event of war with France we should have to
reckon also with Russia. This meant that the army must be strong enough to be equal to the
coming fight on two borders--a tremendous demand upon the resources of a land when one considers
that a peaceful folk, devoted to agriculture, industry, and trade, must live for decades in
the constant expectation of being obliged, be it tomorrow, be it in ten years, to fight for
its life against its two great military neighbors simultaneously. There are, moreover, the
great money expenditures, and also the burden of universal military service, which, as is well
known, requires every able-bodied male German to serve a number of years with the colors, and
later to hold himself ready, first as a reservist, then as member of the Landwehr, and finally
as member of the Landsturm, to spring to arms at the call of his supreme war lord, the German
Emperor. A warlike, militant nation would not long have endured such conditions, but would
have compelled a war and carried it through swiftly. As Bismarck said, however, the German
Army, since it is an army of the folk itself, is not a weapon for frivolous aggression. Since
the German Army, when it is summoned to war, represents the whole German people, and since
the whole German people is peaceably disposed, it follows that the army can only be a defensive
organization. If war comes, millions of Germans must go to the front, must leave their parents,
their families, their children. They must. And this "must" means not only the command of their
Emperor, but also the necessity to defend their own land. Did not this necessity exist, these
sons, husbands, and fathers would assuredly not go gladly to the battlefield, and it is likewise
certain that those who stayed at home would not rejoice so enthusiastically to see them go
as we Germans have seen them rejoicing in these days. Again, then, let us repeat that the German
Army is a weapon which can be and is used only for defense against foreign aggressions. When
these aggressions come, the whole German folk stands with its army, as it does now.

The German Army is divided into 25 corps in times of peace. In war times reservists, members
of the Landwehr, and occasionally also of the Landsturm, are called to the colors. The result
is that the German Army on a war footing is a tremendously powerful organ.

Our opponents in foreign countries have for years consistently endeavored to awaken the belief
that the German soldier does his obligatory service very unwillingly, that he does not get
enough to eat and is badly treated. These assertions are false, and anybody who has seen in
these weeks of mobilization how our soldiers, reservists, and Landwehr men departed for the
field or reported at the garrisons, anybody who has seen their happy, enthusiastic and fresh
faces knows that mishandled men, men who have been drilled as machines, cannot present such
an appearance.

On the day the German mobilization was ordered we traveled with some Americans from the western
border to Berlin. These Americans said: "We do not know much about your army, but judging by
what we have seen in these days there prevails in it and all its arrangements such system that
it must win. System must win every time." In this saying there is, indeed, much of truth--order
and system are the basis upon which the mighty organization of our army is built.

Now a word concerning the German officer. He, too, has been much maligned, he is often misunderstood
by foreigners, and yet we believe that the people of the United States in particular must be
able to understand the German officer. One of the greatest sons of free America, George Washington,
gave his countrymen the advice to select only gentlemen as officers, and it is according to
this principle that the officers of the German Army and Navy are chosen. Their selection is
made, moreover, upon a democratic basis, in that the officers' corps of the various regiments
decide for themselves whether they will or will not accept as a comrade the person whose name
is proposed to them.

One sees that the German Army is not, as many say, a tremendous machine, but rather a great,
living organism, which draws its strength and lifeblood from all classes of the whole German
folk. The German Army can develop its entire strength only in a war which the folk approve,
that is, when a defensive war has been forced upon them. That this is true will have been realized
by our friends in the United States before this comes into their hands.

The German fleet is in like manner a weapon of defense. It was very small up to the end of
the last century, but has since then been consistently built up according to the ground principles
which Mr. Roosevelt has so often in his powerful manner laid down for the American fleet. The
question has often been asked, what is there for the German fleet to defend, since the German
coastline is so short? The answer is that the strength of a fleet must not be made to depend
upon the length of coastlines, but upon how many ships and how much merchandise go out from
and enter the harbors, how great oversea interests there are, how large the colonies are and
how they are situated, and, finally, how strong the sea powers are with which Germany may have
to carry on a war and how they are situated. To meet all these requirements there is but one
remedy, namely, either that our fleet shall be strong enough to prevent the strongest sea power
from conducting war against us, or that, if war does come, it shall be able so to battle against
the mightiest opponent that the latter shall be seriously weakened.

Germany, as especially the Americans know, has become a great merchant marine nation, whose
colonies are flourishing. Furthermore, since the land's growing population has greatly increased
its strength in the course of the last years, the mistrust and jealousy of Great Britain have
in particular been directed steadily against the development of our ocean commerce, and later
of our navy. To the upbuilding of the German Navy were ascribed all manner of plans--to attack
Great Britain, to make war on Japan, &c. It was even declared by the English press that Germany
intended to attack the United States as soon as its fleet was strong enough. Today, when Great
Britain has needlessly declared war upon us, the Americans will perhaps believe that our fleet
was never planned or built for an attack on any one. Germany desired simply to protect its
coasts and its marine interests in the same manner in which it protects its land boundaries.
It is realized in the United States as well as here that a fleet can be powerful only when
it has a sufficient number of vessels of all classes, and when it is thoroughly and unremittingly
schooled in times of peace. We have tried to attain this ideal in Germany, and it may be remarked
that the training of the personnel requires greater efforts here, since the principle of universal
service is also applied to the fleet, with a resulting short term of service, whereas all foreign
fleets have a long term of enlistment.

The nominal strength of the German fleet is regulated by statute, as is also the term--twenty
years--at the expiration of which old vessels must automatically be replaced by new ones. This
fleet strength is set at forty-one line-of-battle ships, twenty armored cruisers and forty
small cruisers, besides 144 torpedo boats and seventy-two submarine vessels. These figures,
however, have not been reached. To offset this fact, however, almost the whole German fleet
has been kept together in home waters. Great Britain's fleet is much stronger than ours, but
despite this the German fleet faces its great opponent with coolness and assurance and with
that courage and readiness to undertake great deeds that mark those who know that their land
has been unjustifiably attacked. It is utterly incorrect to say, as has been said, that the
German naval officers are filled with hatred for other navies, especially for the British.
On the contrary, the relations between German and English officers and men have always been
good, almost as good as those of the Germans with the American officers. It is not personal
hatred that inspires our officers and men with the lust for battle, but their indignation over
the unprovoked attack and the realization that, if every one will do his best for the Fatherland
in this great hour, it will not be in vain even against the greatest naval power. We, too,
are confident of this, for strenuous and faithful effort always has its reward, and this is
especially true of our fleet organization. The United States realizes this as well as we, for
it, too, has built up a strong and admirably trained fleet by prodigious labor. As is the case
with the German fleet, the American Navy also is not built for aggression, but for defense.

Neutrality by the Grace of England.

Janus, a mighty god of the ancient Romans, was represented as having two faces. He could smile
and frown simultaneously.

This god Janus is the personification of neutrality according to English ideas. Neutrality
smiles when violated by England and frowns when violated by other powers.

The United States got a taste of England's neutrality when, a century ago, the English impressed
thousands of American sailors, taking them from American ships on the high seas, when they
searched neutral ships and confiscated the enemy's property on board of them, until Congress
in Washington voted for the declaration of war against England.

In the great civil war, 1861 to 1864, England had counted on the victory of the Southern States;
she recognized them as belligerents and supplied them with warships. This was not considered
by England a breach of neutrality until the Minister of the United States declared, on Sept.
5, 1863, that unless England desisted war would result. England yielded.

But, according to the old German proverb, "A cat cannot resist catching mice," she secretly
permitted the fitting out of privateers (the Alabama) for the Southern States and was finally
forced to pay an indemnity of $15,000,000. England gained, however, more than she lost by this
interpretation of neutrality, for by the aid of her privateers American maritime trade passed
into English hands and was lost to the Americans.

May God's vengeance fall on Germany! She has violated Belgium's neutrality! the English piously
ejaculate. They call themselves God's chosen people, the instrument of Providence for the benefit
of the whole universe. They look down upon all other peoples with open or silent contempt,
and claim for themselves various prerogatives, in particular the supremacy of the sea, even
in American waters, from Jamaica to Halifax.

England's policy has always been to take all, to give back nothing, to constantly demand more,
to begrudge others everything. Only where the New World is concerned has England, conscious
of her own weakness, become less grasping, since Benjamin Franklin "wrested the sceptre from
the tyrants," since the small colonies that fought so valiantly for their liberty rose to form
the greatest dominion of the white race.

In the Summer of 1911, during the Franco-German Morocco dispute, the English were determined
to assist their old enemies, the French, against Germany, and stationed 160,000 troops along
their coast ready for embarkation. For the French coast? No, indeed! For transportation to
Antwerp, where the English were to unite with the French Army and combine in the destruction
of the German forces. But things did not reach that stage. England was not ready. England and
France were resolved not to respect the neutrality of Belgium--the same England that solemnly
assures the world that she has never at any time or place committed a breach of neutrality.
England has observed neutrality only when compatible with her own interests, which has not
often been the case. Her whole dissimulating policy is much more questionable than our one
breach of neutrality, committed in self-defense and accompanied by the most solemn promises
of indemnity and restitution.

England and France did not give up their plan of attacking Germany through Belgium, and by
this means won the approval of the Muscovites. Three against one!

The Germans have not forgotten the tone in which the French and Belgian press reported the
frequent excursions of French Staff officers and Generals for the purpose of making an exhaustive
study of the territory through which the armies are now moving, and who were received with
open arms in Belgium and treated like brothers. Belgium has become the vassal of France.

In our place the Government of the United States would not have acted differently. "Inter arma
silent leges"--in the midst of arms the laws are silent. Besides, England had interfered beforehand
in Germany's plan of campaign by declaring that she would not tolerate an attack upon the northern
coast of France.

The German troops, with their iron discipline, will respect the personal liberty and property
of the individual in Belgium, just as they did in France in 1870.

The Belgians would have been wise if they had permitted the passage of the German troops.

Germany has always been a good and just neighbor, to Belgium as well as to the other small
powers such as Holland, Denmark and Switzerland, which England in her place would have swallowed
up one and all long ago.

The development of industry on the lower Rhine has added to the prosperity of Belgium and has
made Antwerp one of the first ports on the Continent, as well as one of the most important
centres of exchange for German-American trade.

Without Germany Belgium could never have acquired the Congo.

When England meditated taking possession of the Congo, claiming that great rivers are nothing
but arms of the sea and consequently belong to the supreme maritime power, King Leopold turned
to Germany for protection and received it from Bismarck, who called the Congo Conference of
1884-5 and obtained the recognition by the powers of the independence of the Congo State.

The struggle of the German States in Europe has some points in common with the struggle of
the Independent States of North America (from 1778 to 1783), for it is directed chiefly against
England's scheming guardianship, and her practice of weakening the Continental powers by sowing
or fostering dissension among them.

While continually protesting her love of peace, England has carried on no fewer than forty
wars during the latter half of the nineteenth century, including the great Boer war. She has
long imperiled, and in the end has succeeded in disturbing, the peace of Europe by her invidious
policy of isolating Germany. Germany, on the other hand, has proved herself since 1871 to be
the strongest and most reliable security for the peace of Europe.

The policy of sowing dissension, practiced by England more industriously than ever in recent
years, cannot possibly meet with the approval of the peace-loving citizens of the United States,
and should be condemned on merely humanitarian as well as commercial grounds.

England aims at being mistress of the Old World in order to occupy either an equal, or a menacing,
position toward the New World, as circumstances may dictate. For this purpose she has encouraged
this war. The German Federated States of Europe are defending themselves with might and main,
and are counting in this struggle for existence on the good-will of the United States of America,
for whose citizens they cherish the friendliest feelings, as they have proved at all times.
All Americans who have visited Germany will surely bear witness to that effect.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ATTITUDES OF GERMANY'S ENEMIES.

Germany overrun by spies for years past.

It goes without saying that in time of war the respective participants seek to gain for themselves
every possible advantage, including as not the least of these advantages that of having public
opinion on their side. It is equally understandable that Governments, for political or military
reasons, often endeavor to conceal their real intentions until the decisive moment. In this
matter, however, as in the conduct of war itself, there exists the basic principle, acknowledged
throughout the civilized world, that no methods may be employed which could not be employed
by men of honor even when they are opponents. One cannot, unfortunately, acquit Russia of the
charge of employing improper policies against Germany. It must, unfortunately, be said that
even the Czar himself did not, at the breaking out of hostilities against Germany, show himself
the gentleman upon a throne which he had formerly been believed by every one to be.

The Russian Emperor addressed himself to Kaiser William in moving and friendly expressions,
in which, pledging his solemn word and appealing to the grace of God, he besought the Kaiser,
shortly before the outbreak of the war, to intervene at Vienna. There exists between Austria-Hungary
and Germany an ancient and firm alliance, which makes it the duty of both Governments to afford
unconditional support to each other in the moment that either one's vital interests come into
question. There can be no doubt that the existence of Austria-Hungary is threatened by the
Servian agitation. Despite this, the German Emperor, in offering his final counsels respecting
the treatment of Servia and the concessions to be made to Russia, went, in his desire for peace,
almost to the point where Austria could have had doubts of Germany's fidelity to the obligations
of the alliance. Nevertheless, Russia at this very time not only continued its mobilization
against Austria, but also simultaneously brought its troops into a state of preparedness for
war against Germany. It is impossible that this could have been done without the order of the
Czar. The conduct of the Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs, of the Chief of the General Staff
and of the War Minister was of a piece with this attitude of the ruler. They assured the German
Ambassador and the German Military Attaché upon their word of honor that troops were not being
mobilized against Germany and that no attack upon Germany was planned. The facts, however,
have proved that the decision to make war upon Germany had already been reached at that time.

The reason which impelled the Czar and his chief advisers to employ such base tactics with
the help of their word of honor and appeals to the Supreme Being is plain. Russia requires
a longer time for mobilization than Germany. In order to offset this disadvantage, to deceive
Germany and to win a few days' start, the Russian Government stooped to a course of conduct
as to which there can be but one judgment among brave and upright opponents. No one knew better
than the Czar the German Emperor's love of peace. This love of peace was reckoned upon in the
whole despicable game. Fortunately the plan was perceived on the German side at the right time.
Advices received by Germany's representative in St. Petersburg concerning the actual Russian
mobilization against Germany moved him to add to the report given him upon the Russian word
of honor a statement of his own conviction that an attempt was obviously being made to deceive
him. We find also that the character of the Russian operations had been rightly comprehended
by so unimpeachable an organ as the English Daily Graphic of Aug. 1, which said: "If the mobilization
order is also carried through in the provinces bordering on Germany, the work of the preservers
of peace is ended, for Germany will be compelled to answer with the mobilization of her armed
forces. We confess that we are unable to understand this attitude of Russia in connection with
the renewal of the negotiations with Austria."

It is customary among civilized nations that a formal declaration of war shall precede the
beginning of hostilities, and all powers, with the exception of some unimportant, scattered
States, have obligated themselves under international law to observe this custom. Neither Russia
nor France has observed this obligation. Without a declaration of war Russian troops crossed
the German border, opened fire on German troops, and attempted to dynamite bridges and buildings.
In like manner, without a declaration of war, French aviators appeared above unfortified cities
in South Germany and sought, by throwing bombs, to destroy the railways. French detachments
crossed the German border and occupied German villages. French aviators flew across neutral
Holland and the then neutral Belgium to carry out warlike plans against the lower Rhine district
of Germany. A considerable number of French officers, disguised in German uniforms, tried to
cross the Dutch-German frontier in an automobile in order to destroy institutions in German
territory. It is plain that both France and Russia desired to compel Germany to make the first
step in declaring war, so that the appearance of having broken the peace might, in the eyes
of the world, rest upon Germany. The Russian Government even attempted to disseminate through
a foreign news agency the report that Germany had declared war on Russia, and it refused, contrary
to the usage among civilized nations, to permit to be telegraphed the report of the German
Ambassador that Russia had rejected the final German note concerning war and peace.

Germany for its part, in the hope that peace might yet be maintained, subjected itself to the
great disadvantage of delaying its mobilization in the first decisive days in the face of the
measures of its probable enemy. When, however, the German Emperor realized that peace was no
longer possible, he declared war against France and Russia honorably, before the beginning
of hostilities, thus bringing into contrast the moral courage to assume the responsibility
for the beginning of the conflict as against the moral cowardice of both opponents, whose fear
of public opinion was such that they did not dare openly to admit their intentions to attack
Germany.

Germany, moreover, cared in a humane and proper manner at the outbreak of the war for those
non-combatant subjects of hostile States--traveling salesmen, travelers for pleasure, patients
in health resorts, &c.--who happened to be in the country at the time. In isolated cases, where
the excitement of the public grew disquieting, the authorities immediately intervened to protect
persons menaced. In Russia, however, in France and especially in Belgium the opposite of decency
and humanity prevailed. Instead of referring feelings of national antipathy and of national
conflicting interests to the decision of the battlefield, the French mishandled in the most
brutal manner the German population and German travelers in Paris and other cities, who neither
could nor wished to defend themselves, and who desired solely to leave the hostile country
at once. The mob threatened and mishandled Germans in the streets, in the railway stations
and in the trains, and the authorities permitted it.

The occurrences in Belgium are infamous beyond all description. Germany would have exposed
itself to the danger of a military defeat if it had still respected the neutrality of Belgium
after it had been announced that strong French detachments stood ready to march through that
country against the advancing German Army. The Belgium Government was assured that its interests
would be conscientiously guarded if it would permit the German Army to march through its territory.
Its answer to this assurance was a declaration of war. In making this declaration it acted
perhaps not wisely but unquestionably within its formal rights. It was, however, not right,
but, on the contrary, a disgraceful breach of right, that the eyes of wounded German soldiers
in Belgium were gouged out, and their ears and noses cut off; that surgeons and persons carrying
the wounded were shot at from houses.

Private dwellings of Germans in Antwerp were plundered, German women were dragged naked through
the streets by the mob and shot to death before the eyes of the police and the militia. Captains
of captured German ships in Antwerp were told that the authorities could not guarantee their
lives, German tourists were robbed of their baggage, insulted and mishandled, sick persons
were driven from the German hospital, children were thrown from the windows of German homes
into the streets and their limbs were broken. Trustworthy reports of all these occurrences,
from respectable and responsible men, are at hand. We perceive with the deepest indignation
that the cruelties of the Congo have been outdone by the motherland. When it comes to pass
that in time of war among nations the laws of humanity respecting the helpless and the unarmed,
the women and children, are no longer observed, the world is reverting to barbarism. Even in
wartimes humanity and honor should still remain the distinguishing marks of civilization. That
French and Russians, in their endeavors to spy upon Germany and destroy her institutions, should
disguise themselves in German uniforms is a sorry testimony to the sense of honor possessed
by our opponents. He who ventures to conduct espionage in a hostile land, or secretly to plant
bombs, realizes that he risks the penalty of death, whether he be a civilian or a member of
the army. Up to the present, however, it has not been customary to use a uniform, which should
be respected even by the enemy, to lessen the personal risk of the spy and to facilitate his
undertaking.

For a number of years there have been increasing indications that France, Russia and England
were systematically spying upon the military institutions of Germany. In the eight years from
1906 to 1913; 113 persons were found guilty of attempted or accomplished espionage of a grave
nature. The methods employed by these spies included theft, attacks upon military posts and
the employment of German officers' uniforms as disguises. The court proceedings threw a clear
light upon the organization and operations of espionage in Germany. This espionage was directed
from central points in foreign countries, often in the small neighboring neutral States. Repeatedly
it appeared that the foreign embassies and consulates in Germany assisted in this work; it
was also discovered that Russia, France and England were exchanging reports which they had
received concerning Germany's means of defense.

This espionage system was supported with large funds. It endeavored whenever possible to seduce
military persons and officials to betray their country, and, when this was not possible, it
devoted its attention to doubtful characters of every sort. It began its work with petty requests
of a harmless appearance, followed these with inducements to violations of duty, and then proceeded
with threats of exposure to compel its victims to betray their country further. Exact instructions,
complete in the minutest detail, were given to the spies for the carrying on of their work;
they were equipped with photographic apparatus, with skeleton keys, forged passes, &c.; they
received fixed monthly salaries, special bonuses for valuable information, and high rewards
for especially secret matters, such as army orders, descriptions of weapons and plans of fortifications.
Principal attention was paid to our boundaries, railroads, bridges and important buildings
on lines of traffic, which were spied upon by specially trained men. With the reports of these
spies as their basis, our opponents have carefully planned the destruction of the important
German lines of communication. The extraordinary watchfulness of the German military officials
immediately before the declaration of war and since then has been able to render futile the
whole system of foreign attempts against our means of communication in every single instance,
but a great number of such attempts have been made. All these things prove beyond doubt that
a war against Germany has long been planned by our opponents.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIES ABOUT GERMANY.

The machinations of England and France to put Germany in the wrong--Lies on all sides.

Germany has now not only to battle against a world in arms, but it must also defend itself
against lies and slanders which have been piled up around it like a hostile rampart. There
is no cable at our disposal. England has either cut the cables, or is in possession of them.
No German description of what has actually occurred can be sent by telegraph; the wires are
carrying into the world only the distortions of our enemies. Germany is shut off as with a
hedge from the outside world, and the world is supplied solely with news given out by our enemies.
This language is strictly true; for the boldest, nay, the most impudent imagination would be
unable to invent anything to exceed the false and absurd reports already printed by foreign
newspapers.

In view of what we have experienced during this first week of the war we can already calmly
assert that when the editors of foreign newspapers come later to compare their daily news of
this week with the actual occurrences as testified to by authentic history, they will all open
their eyes in astonishment and anger over all the lies which the countries hostile to Germany
have sent over the cables to bamboozle the whole world. Much of all this has already become
ridiculous; we must laugh over it despite the solemnity of the crisis in which we are living--for
example, the bestowal of the cross of the Legion of Honor upon the city of Liége by the French
President because it victoriously repulsed the attack of the Germans. Witness, too, the telegrams
of congratulation sent by the King of England and the Czar of Russia to the Belgian King upon
the victory of Liége! The joy over such "German defeats" will prove just as brief as the jubilation
over such "Belgian victories." Such lies have short legs, and the truth will in any case soon
overtake them.

But there are other lies of a more serious character and of more dangerous import--all such
as misrepresent Germany's attitude and defame German character. Such defamation is designed
to disturb old friendships and transform them into bitter estrangement; such defamation can
also attain its hostile purpose wherever people do not say daily to themselves, "It is an enemy
that reports such things about Germany; let us be wise and suspend our judgment till we know
actual results, till we know what is surely the truth."

Let us select several facts as examples and as evidence--facts connected with the preparation
for this war, as well as with the conduct of it thus far.

All the cables controlled by the English-French-Russian coalition disseminate the lie about
the ostensibly "preventive war" that Germany wished and prepared for. The German "White Book"
prints documents proving the white purity of the German conscience as represented by Kaiser,
Chancellor, and people. It reveals also the profound grief of the German Kaiser over the sly
and insidious perfidy of the Czar, toward whom he steadily maintained German fidelity even
in hours of grave danger. What Russia did was more than a mere attack, it was a treacherous
assault. The following facts prove this:

     The German mobilization was ordered on Aug. 1, whereas Russia began
     to mobilize fully four weeks earlier, or about the beginning of
     July. Papers found on several Russian harvest laborers arrested in
     the district of Konitz show that the Russian military authorities
     had already by the first of July--i.e., immediately after the
     tragedy at Serajevo--sent to the leaders of these men mustering-in
     orders, which were to be distributed immediately after a further
     word should be given. These confiscated papers prove that Russia
     hoped to be able to mobilize against Austria before Germany could
     get official information of Russia's measures. The Russian
     authorities purposely avoided the usual course of sending these
     orders through the Russian Consuls, and they assigned "military
     exercises" as the object of this call to the colors.

     July 25--Military exercises at Krasnoye-Selo were suddenly broken
     off and the troops returned at once to their garrisons. The
     manoeuvres had been called off. The military cadets were advanced
     at once to officers, instead of waiting, as usual, till Autumn.

     July 26--All ships and boats are forbidden to sail in the waters
     between Helsingfors and Yorkkele; and navigation between Sweden and
     Finland is closed.

     July 28--Partial mobilization; sixteen army corps to be increased
     to the strength of thirty-two corps. On the same day the Czar begs
     for friendly mediation; and on the same day the Russian Minister of
     Foreign Affairs and the Russian Minister of War give the German
     Military Attaché, upon their own initiative, their solemn word of
     honor that no mobilization has taken place.

     July 30--The Second and Third Russian Cavalry Divisions appear on
     the German frontier between Wirballen and Augustov. The Czar issues
     a ukase calling to the colors the reserves in twenty-three entire
     Governments and in eighty districts of other Governments; also the
     naval reserves in sixty-four districts, or twelve Russian and one
     Finnish Government; also the Cossacks on furlough in a number of
     districts; also the necessary reserve officers, physicians, horses
     and wagons.

     July 31--General mobilization of the whole Russian Army and Navy.
     The German steamer Eitel Friedrich, which keeps up a regular
     service between Stettin and St. Petersburg, is stopped by a Russian
     torpedo boat and brought into Revel, where the crew were made
     prisoners. The Russians blow up the railway bridge on Austrian
     territory between Szozakowa and Granica.

     Night of Aug. 1--Russian patrols attack the German railway bridge
     near Eichenried and try to surprise the German railway station at
     Miloslaw. A Russian column crosses the German frontier at
     Schwidden, and two squadrons of Cossacks ride against Johannisburg.

     Aug. 1--(At last) Germany's mobilization.

And France?

     July 27--The Fourteenth Army Corps breaks off its manoeuvres.

     July 31--General mobilization.

     Aug. 2--French troops attack German frontier posts, cross the
     frontier, and occupy German towns. Bomb-throwing aviators come into
     Baden and Bavaria; also, after violating Belgium's neutrality by
     crossing Belgian territory, they enter the Rhine Province and try
     to destroy bridges.

     Only after all this is the German Ambassador at Paris instructed to
     demand his passports.

And England?

In London war must already have been decided upon by July 31; the English Admiralty had even
before that date advised Lloyd's against insuring German ships. On the same day the German
Government gave emphatic support in Vienna to the English mediatory proposal of Sir Edward
Grey. But the entire English fleet had already been assembled.

Of course, English public opinion was and still is divided. As late as Aug. 1 The Daily Graphic
wrote in reference to the Russian mobilization order: "Will the Russian order also be carried
out in the provinces on the German frontier? If so, then the labor of the peace-preservers
is at an end, for Germany is compelled to answer with the mobilization of its armed forces.
We confess that we are not able to understand this attitude of Russia, in view of the resumption
of negotiations at Vienna."

And a leaflet distributed in the streets of London said that "a war for Russia is a war against
civilization."

So much as to the preparations for the war--and now we take up the conduct of the war itself.

By glancing at the foreign press during this one week we have been able to collect the following
specimen pieces of news:

     London--The British Admiralty reports that the English fleet had
     driven back the German fleet to the Dutch coast.

There is not one word of truth in this. The Admiralty itself appears later to have recovered
its senses; at least, it denied a Reuter story about a "great English naval victory near the
Dogger Bank." But the English manufactories of lies are already so actively at work that members
of Parliament have protested in the House itself against the "lying reports of the English press."

     Paris--From Paris the assertion was made and disseminated
     throughout the world that "the landing of English troops in Belgium
     has begun; they were enthusiastically received by the population.
     The landing proceeded rapidly and in the best order, as the
     agreement between the two General Staffs guaranteed the perfect
     carrying out of the disembarkment plans."

Not a single word of this is true. At present not one English soldier has been landed.

In a similar way the Baltic Sea has become the scene of invented "battles"--of "German defeats,"
of course; the Russian Baltic Fleet sank a German war vessel in a battle that never occurred.

And, "The Russian vanguard has crossed the German frontier without meeting with opposition."
As a matter of fact there is not a single Russian soldier on German soil. All inroads have
been repulsed, and the German offensive has everywhere been successful.

A Dutch newspaper prints the following report from France:

     Belfort--Many hundreds of Alsatians are joining the French Army
     with great enthusiasm, also many Italian Swiss. A large number of
     Alsace-Lorrainers are waiting near the frontier with a view of
     crossing it at a favorable opportunity to fight on the French side.

Such absurdity in the face of the unbroken unanimity of the entire German people and despite
the manifest enthusiasm of the Alsace-Lorrainers for the German cause!

Equally stupid and made up for incurably credulous readers is an official report of the French
War Ministry--not a private rumor, be it noted, but an official communication. It says:

     A young Frenchman reports under oath that he was arrested, along
     with several other Frenchmen, at the railway station in Lörrach
     while on the homeward journey from Baden; and they were led through
     the whole city under a military escort. One of the Frenchmen
     shouted, "Hurrah for France," and was at once shot down. Three
     others who protested against this suffered the same fate; and so
     did a fifth man who thereupon had called the Germans murderers. The
     rest of the Frenchmen, proceeding to Switzerland by rail, heard
     shots fired in the adjoining compartment; they discovered that two
     Italians had been shot by Germans because one had protested against
     the opening of the window, and another had jostled a German.

Does such stuff call for any refutation at all?

A typical example of how it is sought to work upon public opinion by means of systematic lying
is afforded by the capture of Liége.

The fact is that this Belgian stronghold, along with its forts, which contained a garrison
of 20,000 men, was taken by storm on Aug. 7 by the German troops, who fought with unparalleled
bravery, and that 3,000 to 4,000 Belgian prisoners of war are already on their way to Germany.

Yet on Aug. 9--two days after the fall of Liége--a dispatch was still sent to the Dutch press,
saying: "The Liége forts are still in Belgian hands."

And on Aug. 8, thirty-six hours after the fall of Liége--a dispatch was sent from Paris to
the newspapers of Rome, saying:

     The Germans lost 20,000 men at Liége and asked for an armistice of
     twenty-four hours. Liége has not yet fallen. The English landed
     100,000 men at Antwerp, who were received with jubilation by the
     population. President Poincaré, upon the proposal of Doumergue, the
     Minister of War, conferred on the City of Liége the cross of the
     Legion of Honor.

Another newspaper reported as follows: "The King of England sent a congratulatory dispatch
to the King of Belgium upon his victory at Liége; seven German regiments were slain."

At Paris itself a note of the French War Ministry--published on the evening of Aug. 7, Liége
having fallen in the early morning of that day--mentions the resistance of Liége and says that
the forts are still holding out; that the Germans who had entered the city on Thursday by passing
between the forts had evacuated it on Friday; and that the Belgian division that went to the
assistance of the city had therefore not even made an attack. The official note concludes from
all this that the resistance of the Belgians was seriously disturbing the plan of the Germans,
who were building hopes upon a rapid success.

And four full days after the capture of Liége the French Minister at Berne reported officially:
"Liége has not yet been taken; the German troops were repulsed."

At Copenhagen the following dispatches were published: "The English and French troops had effected
a junction with the Belgian Army and had entered Liége and made many German prisoners, among
them a nephew of the German Kaiser."

Similarly at Stockholm: "The Germans had suffered a severe repulse."

Again a dispatch from Paris to Rome: "The Germans had been driven back behind the Moselle and
were begging for an armistice; the French had passed Namur and were pressing forward in forced
marches, while 500,000 English were falling upon the German flank."

Still another official report from Paris: "Liége is becoming the grave of the 150,000 Germans
who are breaking their heads against its walls; the Belgians had taken 3,000 prisoners, who
were in a terrible condition; but for their good fortune of falling into captivity they would
have starved to death."

In contrast to all this let us take the unvarnished truth as in the reported simple words of
the German Quartermaster General:

     We are now able to report upon Liége Without doing any harm.... We
     had only a weak force at Liége four days ago, for it is not
     possible to prepare for such a bold undertaking by collecting large
     masses of men. That we attained the desired end in spite of this is
     due to the excellent preparation, the valor of our troops, their
     energetic leadership, and the help of God. The courage of the enemy
     was broken, and his troops fought badly. The difficulties against
     us lay in the exceedingly unfavorable topography of the
     surroundings, which consisted of hills and woods, and in the
     treacherous participation of the entire population in the fighting,
     not even excluding women. The people fired upon our troops from
     ambush, from villages and forests--fired upon our physicians who
     were treating the wounded, and upon the wounded themselves. Hard
     and bitter fighting occurred; whole villages had to be destroyed in
     order to break the resistance, before our brave troops penetrated
     the girdle of forts and took possession of the city. It is true
     that a part of the forts still held out, but they no longer fired.
     The Kaiser did not want to waste a drop of blood in storming the
     forts, which no longer hindered the carrying out of our plans. We
     were able to await the arrival of heavy artillery to level the
     forts one after the other at our leisure, and without the sacrifice
     of a single life--in case their garrisons should not surrender
     sooner.... So far as can be judged at present the Belgians had more
     men for the defense of the city than we had for storming it. Every
     expert can measure from this fact the greatness of our achievement;
     it is without a parallel....

     (Signed) VON STEIN,

     Quartermaster General.

It is not the German people alone that will have cause to remember Liége; the whole world will
do well to learn from the case of Liége that an organized manufactory of lies is trying to
deceive the public opinion of all the nations. Glorious victories are converted into "defeats
with heavy losses," and the strong moral discipline of the German troops is slanderously described
in the reports of the imaginative, phrase-loving French as cruelty--just as in 1870 the Prussian
Uhlans were described as thrusting through with their lances all the French babies and pinning
them fast to the walls.

How far the "grande nation" has already degenerated, and how far the Belgian population, akin
to the French both in blood and in sentiments, imitate the French in their Balkan brutality,
is illustrated by two examples. One of these, in the form of a German official warning, says:
"The reports at hand about the fighting around Liége show that the population of the country
took part in the battle. Our troops were fired upon from ambush. Physicians were shot at while
following their profession. Cruelties were practiced by the population on wounded soldiers.
There is also news at hand showing that German patrols in the vicinity of Metz were fired at
from ambush from the French side. It may be that these occurrences are due to the composition
of the population in those industrial regions, but it may also be that France and Belgium are
preparing for a guerrilla warfare upon our troops. If the latter alternative should prove true,
and this proof be strengthened through repetitions of these occurrences, then our opponents
will have themselves to thank if this war be carried on with unrelenting severity even against
the guilty population. The German troops, who are accustomed to preserve discipline and to
wage war only against the armed forces of the hostile State, cannot be blamed if, in just self-defense,
they give no quarter. The hope of influencing the result of the war by turning loose the passions
of the populace will be frustrated by the unshaken energy of our leaders and our troops. Before
neutral foreign countries, however, it must be demonstrated, even at the beginning of this
war, that it was not the German troops who caused the war to take on such forms."

The details of the cruelties, here only hinted at, on the Belgian and French side, are supplied
and proved by an eye-witness, a German physician, who reports:

     We have experienced from the Belgian population, from men, women,
     and half-grown boys, such things as we had hitherto seen only in
     wars with negroes. The Belgian civilian population shoots in blind
     hatred from every house, from every thick bush, at everything that
     is German. We had on the very first day many dead and wounded,
     caused by the civilian population. Women take part as well as men.
     One German had his throat cut at night while in bed. Five wounded
     Germans were put into a house bearing the flag of the Red Cross; by
     the next morning they had all been stabbed to death. In a village
     near Verviers we found the body of one of our soldiers with his
     hands bound behind his back and his eyes punched out. An automobile
     column which set out from Liége halted in a village; a young woman
     came up, suddenly drew a revolver, and shot a chauffeur dead. At
     Emmenich, an hour by foot from Aachen, a sanitary automobile column
     was attacked by the populace on a large scale and fired at from the
     houses. The red cross on our sleeves and on our automobiles gives
     us physicians no protection at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMANY AND THE FOREIGNER.

Respect for the foreigner--Russians willing to remain in Germany--Ill-treatment of Germans
in Belgium and France.

Enemies on all sides! With dishonorable weapons against us, and with documentary lies for the
rest of the world! Let us calmly allow them to continue lying and slandering as they have begun--it
will result finally in injuring themselves. The world will very soon see through this impudent,
unabashed game; and it will finally side with the people which keeps to the truth, Only the
weakling lies and swindles; the strong man loves and honors truth. Let us act like the strong
man in this struggle!

Respect for the foreigner, protection for his person and property have at all times been considered
sacred among civilized people. Germany can without exaggeration claim to have upheld this respect
and this protection in these fateful days. Except for a few insignificant incidents which took
place in several large cities, where the natural excitement of the people and the legitimate
defense against an insolent system of spying led to the molesting and arrest of foreigners--mostly
Russians--the measures taken against the citizens of hostile nations did not exceed what was
absolutely necessary to the safety of the country. The Imperial Government and likewise the
Federated States have refrained from expelling "en masse" Frenchmen, Russians, Belgians and
Englishmen. It was, of course, unavoidable to take measures for the detention of such persons
as seemed suspicious and for the internation of strangers liable to be called to take arms
against Germany. This took place in cities, e.g., Berlin, where these men were taken away as
"prisoners of war," as soon as the "state of war" had been proclaimed, and placed in special
rooms or camps. Lodgings and food are such as seem requisite and the treatment of these prisoners
is according to their own opinion very kind. The Russian agricultural laborers constitute a
special group of foreigners in Germany: There are about 40,000 to 50,000 of them, men and women.

From various parts of the country it is unanimously announced that these people are very glad
not to be obliged to return to Russia. They are glad to remain in Germany, and willingly continue
their work of gathering the rich German grain, potato and hay crops. Should there be any difficulties,
these workmen would also have to be internated. No measures at all have been taken against
women and children belonging to hostile States. They are left free to move about as they wish.
Should they remain in Germany they can be sure that they will be subject to no other inconvenience
except such as the general state of war inflicts upon Germans. The authorities will protect
their persons, and their private property is respected. Nobody will touch it--as nobody has
touched it so far.

If the German people and the German Government consider the respect they owe the foreigner
as a sacred law, even though the foreigner belongs to the enemy, this respect is enhanced by
affection and gratitude in the case of foreigners whose countries are friendly or neutral.
Thousands and thousands of Americans, Swiss, Dutch, Italians and Scandinavians are still living
in German countries. They may be sure that they can live as freely here as any German citizen.
Should it be possible for them to return home, the best wishes will accompany them. The property
they leave here will be protected. This is guaranteed by the authorities and by influential
private persons. Should they stay in Germany, however, the German people will express their
sense of gratitude for any friendly help they may lend, by increased respect and protection.

       *       *       *       *       *

A strong contrast is noticeable between Germany's attitude toward foreigners and the facts
revealed just now as to the treatment meted out in inimical countries not only to Germans but
to other foreigners. Truly, in England there has been some effort to act according to the usages
of civilized nations when engaged in warfare. Germans and Austrians have been insulted and
molested; there has been some occasional destruction of property in stores; but as far as can
be judged these were excesses of an uncontrollable mob. A general expulsion has not been ordered,
and it is to be hoped that the Germans living in the United Kingdom and in its colonies will
not suffer too heavy damages, in person or in property. Russia, France and Belgium, on the
other hand, have by the ill-treatment and plundering of foreigners living in their countries
struck themselves out of the list of civilized nations. Innumerable reports from expelled or
fugitive people prove this, and official reports confirm them. Also the press of neutral, neighboring
countries, such as Switzerland, Holland, and Italy, is full of similar complaints. Owing to
the scarcity of news from Russia, the facts known so far only concern Petersburg, where German
and Austrian men and women, residents or transients, were beaten and stoned in the streets.
Here were also some cruel mutilations and murders. The beautiful building of the German Embassy
in Petersburg was attacked by the mob. And the police watched all these misdeeds with crossed
arms or even assisted. Probably what took place in Petersburg also occurred in other Russian
cities; we shall soon know.

There are a great many complaints against the French and the Belgians. On the evening of Aug.
1 the mobilization was announced, and the next morning the official order was posted on the
walls, that within twenty-four hours from the beginning of that day all Germans and Austrians,
irrespective of sex, age or profession, would have to leave France. Those who remained and
could not reach the boundary would be taken to the southwestern part of the country and imprisoned.
There were few trains for Belgium or Switzerland. Thousands and thousands who had to abandon
their property rushed to the stations with wife and children, fought for room in the overcrowded
trains, surrounded by a howling mob, and even then were punched and slapped by policemen. During
the trip there was nothing but misery. Men and women fell ill, children died. The refugees
had to cross the Belgian boundary, walking a distance of six or seven kilometers in the middle
of the night, dead tired, their luggage stolen--sometimes, it is said, by officials. In Belgium
the same tragedy occurred as in France. And then came the salvation. The cordial, hospitable
reception by the Germans in Holland and Switzerland is unanimously praised and appreciated.

The reports of brutal acts from Paris, Antwerp, Brussels, would be incredible were they not
confirmed hundredfold. The most brutal and insulting threats of death were flung by processions
of people going through the streets to all those who looked like foreigners. They were severely
ill-treated. Houses and stores were upset, furniture and the like were thrown into the streets,
employers and working people were dragged out, women were stripped and pushed through the streets,
children were thrown out of windows. Knives, swords, sticks and revolvers were used. One could
fill books with the details, but they are all equally cruel. Not only Germans and Austrians
were expelled and ill-treated, but citizens of neutral States shared this awful lot. Thousands
of Italians were expelled, as well as numerous Rumanians. The press in both countries complains
bitterly and asks what has become of those who remained in France and were imprisoned in the
south--but nobody knows.

History will place this ill-treatment and oppression of foreigners on record. The responsibility
rests, not with an uncontrollable mob, but with the Government and the authorities of the two
countries who have always boasted of their culture.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCE AND TRADE RELATIONS BETWEEN GERMANY AND UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Germany's financial rise since 1870--Export and import with the United States of America--The
present firm condition of German finance.

Politicians and commercial men must base their plans upon facts, as they are and not as they
wish they were, otherwise they fail. France has closed its eyes not only to the great intellectual
and moral assists of Germany but also to its commercial resources.

France has repeatedly declared that Germany could not effect a serious political opposition,
because a war would result in the ruin of its commercial and financial strength. This we heard
in the Morocco crisis, also in the Balkan wars. Germany's love of peace which was tested in
the above-mentioned cases strengthened the French in their error. He, however, who has taken
the trouble to visit Germany and the Germans in their places of employment--and especially
Americans in recent years have done this, however, also many Englishmen, who in vain have protested
against the war with Germany--he can testify to the astonishing commercial advancement which
Germany has made since its political union by Bismarck.

A few facts and statistics may recall this to memory. The population of Germany has since 1870,
immigrants excluded, increased from 40,000,000 to 67,000,000, round numbers. Incomes and wages
in particular have approximately doubled during the last generation; savings deposits have
increased sixfold. Although, only a generation ago, commerce and trade employed only about
two-fifths of the population, now more than three-fifths are engaged in this field of work,
and Germany, as a result of its agricultural economy and increased intense farming, is today
the third largest agricultural country of the world. In the coal and iron industries Germany
is second only to America. In one generation its coal production increased two and a half fold,
its raw iron production almost fourfold. During the same period of time the capital of the
German banks increased fourfold and their reserve fund eightfold. Characteristic of Germany
is the fact that hand in hand with this active private initiative is a strong feeling for the
great universal interests and for organic co-operation of private and State resources. This
feeling explains the perfect working of our State activities, in particular our railways, 95
per cent. of which are owned by the Government and which yield an essentially higher revenue
than those in England or France; it explains further the willing assumption of the great financial
burdens which general insurance imposes upon those engaged in private enterprises and which
today is proving a blessing to almost the entire laboring force of Germany, to an extent which
has not yet been realized by any other country.

What economic value to the world has a nation which for more than forty years has concentrated
all its energy in peaceful industry? Does any one deny that Germany's great technical and commercial
advancement has been a blessing in respect to the development of the world? Has not the commercial
advancement in Germany had the effect of awakening new productive powers in all parts of the
world and of adding new territories which engage in the exchange of goods with the civilized
nations of the world? Since the founding of the new German Empire, German foreign trade has
increased from 5-1/2 to approximately 20 billion marks. Germany has become the best customer
of a great number of countries. Not only has the German consumption of provisions and luxuries
increased in an unusual degree, also that of meat, tropical fruits, sugar, tobacco and colonial
products, but above all else that of raw materials, such as coal, iron, copper and other metals,
cotton, petroleum, wood, skins, &c. Germany furnishes a market for articles of manufacture
also, for American machinery, English wool, French luxury articles, &c. One is absolutely wrong
in the belief that the competition of German industry in the world market has been detrimental
to other commercial nations. Legitimate competition increases the business of all concerned.

The United States of America has reaped especial profit from Germany's flourishing commercial
condition. Germany purchases more from the United States of America than from any other country
of the world. Germany buys annually from the United States of America approximately $170,000,000
worth of cotton, $75,000,000 worth of copper, $60,000,000 worth of wheat, $40,000,000 animal
fat, $20,000,000 mineral oil and the same amount of vegetable oil. In 1890 the import and export
trade between Germany and the United States amounted to only $100,000,000, in 1913 to about
$610,000,000. Germany today imports from the United States goods to the value of $430,000,000,
while she exports to the United States nearly $180,000,000 worth. No nation therefore can judge
as well as the United States what German commerce means to the world.

In what condition are the finances of Germany? In this field our opponents will be obliged
to change their views. In 1912 Germany's national debt was about 14 marks per capita lower
than England's. The public debt of France per capita was far more than double that of Germany.
Germany, however, has large national assets which offset its liabilities. For example, the
stocks of the Prussian railways alone exceed by far the aggregate amount of the Prussian debt,
the income of the railways alone is essentially greater than the amount which the interest
and amortization of the entire State debt demand. The war, which, according to the French conception,
was destined to bring about the financial and commercial ruin of Germany, has brought forth
the astonishing result that the famous French money market was the first to fail in this crisis.
As early as July 25, before the rejection of the Austrian ultimatum by Servia had been made
known, the offer of 3 per cent. redeemable French notes to the French Exchange was so great
that the Chambre Syndicale des Agents de Change in the interest of the public prohibited the
quotation of a lower rate than 78 per cent., while bids of 74 per cent. had already been submitted.
Sale in blank was absolutely forbidden, and in the coulisse business was at a standstill. A
few days later the July liquidation, in the official market as well as in the coulisse, was
postponed until the end of August, which action proved the necessity of a period of grace.
On July 31 the French savings banks, at the command of the Government, suspended daily payments
and paid out sums to the amount of 50 francs, fourteen days' notice being necessary. The London
money market, too, has hardly stood the war test. On July 30 the Bank of England was obliged
to raise its rate of discount from 3 to 4 per cent., several days later to 8 per cent., and
again after a few days to the incredible rate of 10 per cent. In contrast to this the President
of the German Reichsbank was able, on the 1st of August, to declare that the directorate, because
of the strength of the Reichsbank and the solid constitution of the German money market, did
not consider it necessary to follow England's example. The German Reichsbank has therefore
not exceeded the rate of 6 per cent. Worse yet was the fact that England, on Aug. 2, was obliged
to require grace on exchange, and France, on Aug. 3, grace on its accounts-current and Lombard
loans. Although along with England and France, also Russia, Austria, Italy, Belgium, and other
nations required temporary credit, Germany to date has not deemed it necessary to ask for time
in meeting its obligations. Savings banks, other banks and financial institutions are meeting
all demands without restriction. The fact that the English money market, which up to the present
time has been considered the financial centre of international trade, has failed, will bring
many a serious thought to all commercial men interested in the world market.

German commerce has doubtless been temporarily injured by the war, but the esprit de corps
and organization which animate the German Nation are not only a firm foundation for German
commerce, but also a strong support for the further development of the commerce and trade of
the entire civilized world, if, as we hope, peace soon be re-established.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHO IS TO BE VICTORIOUS?

An appeal to American friends

The American citizen who is now leaving Europe, which has been turned into an enormous military
camp, may consider himself fortunate that he will soon be able to set foot in the New World,
where he will be enabled again to take up his business pursuits. In the meantime old Europe
is being torn asunder by a terrible war among its various peoples. It will make him happy again
to greet mountain and valley, field and garden which are not threatened nor trampled down by
armies or covered with blood; again to see cities in which business and traffic are not brought
to a standstill by calling in all men capable of military service; and he may thank fortune
that his people have been given room enough in which to expand and to permit them freely to
unfold their power; that they are spared the great necessity of resisting the tightening ring
of enemies in the east and west, on land and water, in a struggle for national existence.

But the American will feel the effects of the fate of the Old World. Even though he knows his
own country is not directly involved, he will certainly realize that the great net of international
traffic and the progress of his country are connected by many strong ties to the life and prosperity
of European peoples. He will be affected by every victory and defeat, just as by the sun and
rain in his own country. He will doubtless remember that of all European countries Germany
is the best customer of the United States, from which she purchases yearly over 1,000,000,000
marks in cotton, food, metal, and technical products. If Germany is economically ruined, which
is the wish of Russia, France, and England and all allied friends of wretched Servia, it would
mean the loss of a heavy buyer to America, and thereby cause a serious loss to America which
could not easily be made good. It would be a great blow to American export trade, of which
Germany handles not less than 14 per cent. yearly.

The material loss is not the only feature. In the economic struggle in the world markets American
and German commercial men have learned mutually to appreciate one another, to appreciate one
another more highly than do any other two rivals. The time is long past when the American pictured
the German as one of thousands, shut up in a room, surrounded by documents and parchments,
speculating about the unknown outside world, and the same is true of the German's idea of the
American--a money-hungry barbarian. Two nations in which so much kindred blood flows and which
are connected by so many historical events understand each other better today than formerly.
Above all, they have a mutual understanding regarding the ideal in commercial life: A man engaged
in work not for the sake of the profit, but for the sake of the work he is doing; one who gives
all his strength to his task, and who works for the general welfare of the people as a whole,
considering his position as an office and his wealth as an obligation, not as the final aim,
but as a basis for the realization of higher attainments. He places the value of character
and the development of the creative powers of man higher than all economic success. Two nations
united by such common inclinations [pg 272] and ideals, boldness of enterprise, far-sightedness,
quickness of decision, and admiration for intellectual achievements, cannot help being exceedingly
congenial to each other. What concerns one today concerns the other.

Does it sound like a paradox when I say Germany's struggle concerns not only her own destiny,
but to a considerable extent that of America? Does the United States consider itself entirely
immune from the warlike complications brought about by the Servian murder of Princes and Russia's
breach of faith? In any event, it will be difficult for it to say: "What's Hecuba to me?" One
thing should be clearly understood on the shores of the five oceans, that the cause of this
most terrible war does not emanate from the dark Balkans, or from a Russian military group,
but from envy and hate which healthy, young and striving Germany has aroused in her older rivals;
not because this or that demand was made by one Cabinet and refused by another, but because
it was believed there was finally an opportunity to destroy the hated opponent who threatened
to put the older Western European powers in the shade, and for this reason England and France
put their strength into the service of criminal and brutal Servia. The following statistics
will, perhaps, throw some light on the development of the foreign trade of the principal countries
from 1870 to 1913 (in billions of marks):

                   1870.     1913.
Great Britain     9,180    23,280
France            4,540    12,300
Russia            2,000     5,580
Germany           4,240    20,440

In these forty-three years, which have been decisive in the development of international economy,
England, France and Russia have not been able even to increase their foreign trade three times,
while Germany and the United States have increased theirs five times. The trade of Germany
and the United States has increased from 7.6 to 38 billion marks. If these figures show nothing
else, they show on which side the American sympathy will be. This war, provoked by Russia because
of an outrageous desire for revenge, supported by England and France, has no other motive than
envy of Germany's position in economic life, and of her people, who are fighting for a place
in the sun. "Right or wrong, Germany must not grow." That is the turning point of a policy
which the French Republic drilled into the Muscovites. Let us consider the adversaries of Germany.
Russia, the classic land of power and terrible exploitation of the people for the benefit of
a degenerated aristocracy. France, a type of a nation in which there is not even enough enterprise
to increase the productiveness of the country. England, which has so long felt its glory vanishing
and in the meantime has remained far behind its younger rival in financial and economic equipment.
One can easily imagine the feelings of these peoples when they observe the rapid and successful
growth of Germany, and wonders if these same feelings will not one day be directed against
the youthful North American giant. In this war it shall be decided which is the stronger--the
organized inertia of the tired and envious, or the unfolding of power in the service of a strong
and sacrificing life. To know that we have American friendship in this struggle will mean a
great moral support for us in the coming trying days, for we know that the country of George
Washington and Abraham Lincoln places itself only on the side of a just cause and one worthy
of humanity's blessing.

By The Associated Press.

WASHINGTON, Sept. 17.--Germany has suggested informally that the United States should undertake
to elicit from Great Britain, France, and Russia a statement of the terms under which the Allies
would make peace.

The suggestion was made by the Imperial Chancellor, von Bethmann-Hollweg, to Ambassador Gerard
at Berlin as a result of an inquiry sent by the American Government to learn whether Emperor
William was desirous of discussing peace, as recently had been reported.

No reply was made by Emperor William himself, nor did the Imperial Chancellor indicate whether
or not he spoke on behalf of the Emperor. Ambassador Gerard, in a cable dispatch to President
Wilson, repeated the Chancellor's remarks from recollection, substantially as follows:

     Germany was appreciative of the American Government's interest and
     offer of services in trying to make peace. Germany did not want
     war, but had it forced on her. Even if she defeats France, she must
     likewise vanquish both Great Britain and Russia, as all three have
     made an agreement not to make peace except by common consent.
     Similarly, England has announced through Premier Asquith and her
     diplomatists and the newspapers that she intends to fight to the
     limit of her endurance. In view of that determination on the part
     of Great Britain, the United States ought to get proposals of peace
     from the Allies. Germany could accept only a lasting peace, one
     that would make her people secure against future attacks. To accept
     mediation now would be interpreted by the Allies as a sign of
     weakness on the part of Germany and would be misunderstood by the
     German people, who, having made great sacrifices, had the right to
     demand guarantees of security.

The above is all that Ambassador Gerard communicated as to his conversation. He added only
the brief comment that he, himself, thought the way might possibly be opened to mediation.
President Wilson did not regard the message, however, as bringing anything tangible. He referred
to the Chancellor's conversation as non-committal and incidental to the acknowledgment of the
American Government's inquiry. The President indicated that he rather expected a reply to the
inquiry to be sent eventually from the Emperor himself, although he realizes that the Imperial
Chancellor may have consulted the Kaiser by telegraph before talking informally with the American
Ambassador.

President Wilson took no action as a result of the message, waiting to hear from Ambassador
Gerard whether anything of a more formal character could be obtained by him which the United
States might communicate to Great Britain, France, and Russia. It was understood tonight that
the British and French Ambassadors who are in Washington were not informed officially or unofficially
by Secretary Bryan of the conversation between the Imperial German Chancellor and Ambassador
Gerard.

Germany's position is that she will give her opinion on terms of peace when she has received
a definite statement from the Allies of their proposals. The statement that Germany did not
want war, but had it forced upon her, as well as the declaration that she wanted a lasting
peace, is almost identical with the remarks which Sir Edward Grey made to Ambassador Page in
London last week. The British Foreign Secretary said England wanted no temporary truce, but
a permanent peace, and one that would safeguard her against sudden attacks such as Germany
had made.

President's Future Course.

The general belief in well-informed circles tonight was that the President, after waiting a
few days for more information from Berlin, probably would instruct the American Ambassadors
at London, Paris, and Petrograd to communicate what the Imperial German Chancellor had said
to Ambassador Gerard. It was believed the Ambassadors would be asked to reiterate the wish
of the American Government to be of service in bringing about peace and to point out the readiness
of the United States to communicate to Germany and Austria any statement of terms which the
Allies might care to make.

Diplomatists are disposed to believe that through such informal conversations something definite
in the way of peace terms may yet be obtained as a working basis. If a concord of opinion for
the discussion of peace terms were reached President Wilson then would endeavor to obtain an
acceptance by all the belligerents of the original tender of good offices. This would not mean
a cessation of hostilities, unless the mediating power specifically made it a condition of
mediation and all the belligerents agreed to it. An armistice would not hinder military movements
or preparations, serving merely as a truce while peace was discussed.

President Wilson already has indicated that he believes that the final reckoning of the war
should be made in a conference of the European powers, and it would be the function of the
United States to preside at such a conference if its services as a mediator were accepted.

Various reports were current today that Germany had named several conditions under which she
would make peace, that she had refused proposals to alter the territorial status of her empire
and possessions, and would cede no territory or dismantle her fleet, but it was said authoritatively
that nothing of this character was contained in any of the messages from Berlin to the American
Government.

A statement made at the White House today was the first authoritative acknowledgment that any
inquiry on the subject of Germany's attitude concerning peace had been made by the United States.
Officials heretofore have maintained silence in regard to the effort made by the Government
to get at the bottom of the expression in favor of peace reported to have been made by the
German Emperor to the Imperial Chancellor and mentioned in a private conversation in New York
by Count von Bernstorff, the German Ambassador to the United States.

What was said by Count von Bernstorff in that conversation brought Oscar S. Straus post-haste
to Washington, and as a result of what he told Secretary Bryan instructions were sent to Ambassador
Gerard to ascertain whether the remarks attributed to the Emperor were to be taken as an indication
that the German Government would not be averse to the exercise of the good offices of the United
States in an effort to end the hostilities in Europe.

The conversation at which the German Ambassador made the statement occurred at the house of
James Speyer, the banker, in New York. Oscar S. Straus, a member of the Permanent Tribunal
of Arbitration at The Hague, was present. In the course of a discussion of the war in Europe
and the prospects of peace Count von Bernstorff, it is understood, said that, while he had
no advices from the Imperial Government since he had left Berlin, he recalled that the Imperial
Chancellor had told him that he believed Emperor William would be willing to discuss a proposal
of peace through mediation.

With the permission of Count von Bernstorff, Mr. Straus came to Washington and told Secretary
Bryan of what the German Ambassador had said. On the following day Count von Bernstorff made
a trip from New York to Washington and had an interview with Secretary Bryan.

It has been understood that Mr. Bryan, in an excess of caution, desired to ask Count von Bernstorff
personally if he would consent to having Ambassador Gerard instructed to make inquiry of the
German Government as to whether the conversation between the Emperor and the Imperial Chancellor
might be regarded as indicating that an offer of mediation of the United States would not be
unwelcome to Germany. Count von Bernstorff is understood to have assented to Mr. Bryan's suggestion,
and the instructions to Mr. Gerard followed.

Sir John Simon, British Attorney General, in Speech Before Altrincham Liberals, at Manchester,
July 25.

We have been so filled with our own political development that some of us may not have noticed
how serious a situation is threatening on the Continent of Europe. All I will say about it
this afternoon is this--if times of anxiety are coming into relationships between different
European powers, we in this country, and I think not only Liberals among us, have reason to
be glad that our foreign administration is in the calm, cool hands of Sir Edward Grey.[06]
[Cheers.] And let us all resolve that, whatever may be the difficulties and dangers which threaten
the peaceful relations in Europe, the part which this country plays shall from beginning to
end be the part of a mediator simply desirous of promoting better and more peaceful relations.

       *       *       *       *       *

[06] On the next day, July 26, Earl Grey addressed to The
      London Times the following appeal for national unity:

     To the Editor of The Times:

     Sir: The Lord Chancellor, in his speech on Friday, called on every
     Liberal to work for the peace of Europe, but to go forward
     unflinchingly to civil war at home.

     It is obvious that the only hope of England's effective mediation
     lies in the unity and solidarity of the United Kingdom.

     Is it not time that the common sense of the nation asserted itself
     and called upon our rulers to take steps which will enable a united
     nation to confront with confidence the perils which encompass us?

     In moments of national peril every loyal citizen should not
     hesitate, however painful the process may be, to burst the fetters
     of party allegiance in order that he may devote his whole energies
     to an endeavor to safeguard the higher interests of the State.

     What is the cause which is dividing a so-called United Kingdom into
     two hostile camps? It is the endeavor of a tyrannical House of
     Commons to force upon the acceptance of the people a bill which in
     the common belief they not only do not want but are strongly
     opposed to. I approach the consideration of the national crisis
     from no party standpoint, but from that of one who believes that
     the peace of Ireland, the honor of England, and the strength of the
     empire are all concerned in a speedy and satisfactory settlement of
     the Irish question.

     I believe that such a settlement is to be found in a measure which
     will give to the peoples of Ireland powers of local self-government
     similar to those enjoyed by the Provinces of Canada and South
     Africa.

     It is because the Ministerial policy of home rule is based on a
     principle which would not be tolerated in any one of the
     Legislatures of Washington, Ottawa, or Melbourne that I am so
     strongly opposed to it. No party, no political group, however
     small, could be found in Canada, Australia, or the United States
     which would venture to propose that the Province of Quebec, or the
     State of Queensland or California, should be endowed by means of a
     measure like the Home Rule bill with separatist constitutional
     rights which could not be given to the other provinces and States.

     I challenge his Majesty's Ministers to deny this plain,
     unanswerable statement.

     I further challenge his Majesty's Ministers to deny that their home
     rule policy, if carried into effect, will make slaves of one part
     of Ireland or another.

     If their bill for the better government of Ireland reaches the
     statute book without the amending bill it will make slaves of the
     Ulstermen. It will deprive them of half of the representation to
     which their population entitles them in the House of Commons, thus
     reducing them to a political inferiority, as compared with the
     peoples of Great Britain, which can hardly be distinguished from
     political slavery, and it will further compel them to accept the
     administration of a Dublin Parliament which they fear and detest in
     all matters relating to their local government. I have often
     wondered how any one rejoicing in the inheritance of old Liberal
     traditions could for a moment suppose that any group of free men
     would ever accept such dishonoring conditions.

     Again, if the Home Rule bill is passed with the amending bill
     tacked on to it, the chains of slavery from which Ulster will be
     relieved will be riveted on the rest of Ireland. Ulster will have
     thirty-three representatives in the Imperial House of Commons, and
     the rest of Ireland twenty-seven! What germ of a settlement of the
     Irish question can any one discover in a policy which proposes that
     one-fourth of the people of Ireland should be able to outvote the
     other three-fourths in matters affecting their liberties and
     taxation?

     No! The Ministerial bills of home rule are fundamentally bad and
     should be withdrawn, in order that a new attempt may be made to
     reach a settlement by general consent in accordance, as I believe,
     with the wishes of the overwhelming majority of the people.

     Is it not better to wait a little for a settlement by consent on
     lines which will conduce to permanent peace and prosperity than to
     try to force on the pages of the statute book a measure which must
     lead to bloodshed and civil war? If party considerations veto the
     withdrawal of the Ministerial measure of home rule without the aid
     of a general election, then let us have a general election without
     one moment's unnecessary delay.

     The times are too perilous to allow us even to contemplate with any
     other feeling than that of horror and dismay the Lord Chancellor's
     appeal to go forward unflinchingly to civil war.

     I have the honor to remain, Sir,

     Yours respectfully,

     GREY.

     22 South Street, Park Lane, July 26.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A CLOUD OVER EUROPE."

London Times Report, July 27, of Speech by Under Secretary Acland.

F.D. Acland, Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, speaking at an open-air Liberal demonstration
at Steyning, Sussex, on Saturday [July 25], said there was a cloud over Europe, the position
there being far graver and more serious than the position in Ireland. No one could imagine
the disasters which a war in which a great European power was involved might bring to the whole
world. He hoped the power of accommodating the difficulties in the same way as in the Balkan
trouble last year would be found effective. The whole of the influence of this country would
be used in the interests of peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUSTRO-SERVIAN CRISIS.

Statement in House of Commons, July 27, by Sir Edward Grey, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

The House will, of course, be aware from the public press of what the nature of the situation
in Europe is at the present moment. I think it is due to the House that I should give in short
narrative form the position which his Majesty's Government have so far taken up. ["Hear, hear."]
Last Friday morning I received from the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador the text of the communication
made by the Austro-Hungarian Government to the powers, which has appeared in the press, and
which included textually the demand made by the Austro-Hungarian Government upon Servia.

In the afternoon I saw other Ambassadors, and expressed the view that as long as the dispute
was one between Austria-Hungary and Servia alone I felt that we had no title to interfere,
but that if the relations between Austria-Hungary and Russia became threatening, the question
would then be one of the peace of Europe--a matter that concerned us all.

I did not then know what view the Russian Government had taken of the situation, and without
knowing how things were likely to develop I could not make any immediate proposition; but I
said that if relations between Austria-Hungary and Russia did become threatening, the only
chance of peace appeared to me to be that the four powers--Germany, France, Italy, and Great
Britain--who were not directly interested in the Servian question, should work together both
in St. Petersburg and Vienna simultaneously to get both Austria-Hungary and Russia to suspend
military operations while the four powers endeavored to arrange a settlement.

After I had heard that Austria-Hungary had broken off diplomatic relations with Servia I made,
by telegraph yesterday afternoon, the following proposal, as a practical method of applying
the views that I had already expressed:

I instructed his Majesty's Ambassadors in Paris, Berlin, and Rome to ask the Governments to
which they were accredited whether they would be willing to arrange that the French, German,
and Italian Ambassadors in London should meet me in a conference to be held in London immediately
to endeavor to find a means of arranging the present difficulties. At the same time I instructed
his Majesty's Ambassadors to ask those Governments to authorize their representatives in Vienna,
St. Petersburg, and Belgrade to inform the Governments there of the proposed conference and
to ask them to suspend all active military operations pending the result of the conference.

To that I have not yet received complete replies, and it is of course a proposal in which the
co-operation of all four powers is essential. In a crisis so grave as this the efforts of one
power alone to preserve the peace must be quite ineffective.

The time allowed in this matter has been so short that I have had to take the risk of making
a proposal without the usual preliminary steps of trying to ascertain whether it would be well
received. But, where matters are so grave and the time so short, the risk of proposing something
that is unwelcome or ineffective cannot be avoided. I cannot but feel, however, assuming that
the text of the Servian reply as published this morning in the press is accurate, as I believe
it to be, that it should at least provide a basis on which a friendly and impartial group of
powers, including powers who are equally in the confidence of Austria-Hungary and of Russia,
should be able to arrange a settlement that would be generally acceptable.

It must be obvious to any person who reflects upon the situation that the moment the dispute
ceases to be one between Austria-Hungary and Servia and becomes one in which another great
power is involved, it can but end in the greatest catastrophe that has ever befallen the Continent
of Europe at one blow; no one can say what would be the limit of the issues that might be raised
by such a conflict; the consequences of it, direct and indirect, would be incalculable.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GRAVE SITUATION.

Statement in House of Commons, July 29, by H.H. Asquith, British Prime Minister.

Mr. Bonar Law (Lancs, Bootle)--May I ask the Prime Minister whether he has any information
to give the House with regard to the European situation?

Mr. Asquith--As the House is aware, a formal declaration of war was issued yesterday by Austria
against Servia. The situation at this moment is one of extreme gravity and I can only say--usefully
say--that his Majesty's Government are not relaxing their efforts to do everything in their
power to circumscribe the area of possible conflict. ["Hear! hear!"]

       *       *       *       *       *

RISK OF A CATASTROPHE.

Declaration in House of Commons, July 30, by Prime Minister Asquith.

We meet today under conditions of gravity which are almost unparalleled in the experience of
every one of us. The issues of peace and war are hanging in the balance, and with them the
risk of a catastrophe of which it is impossible to measure either the dimensions or the effects.
I need not say more than that such a use of our time at such a moment might have injurious,
and lastingly injurious, effects on the international situation. I have had the advantage of
consultation with the leader of the Opposition, who, I know, shares to the full the view which
I have expressed. We shall therefore propose to put off for the present the consideration of
the second reading of the amending bill--of course, without prejudice to its future--in the
hope that by a postponement of the discussion the patriotism of all parties will contribute
what lies in our power, if not to avert at least to circumscribe the calamities which threaten
the world. In the meantime the business which we shall take will be confined to necessary matters
which will not be of a controversial character.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPPOSITION CONCURS.

Assent of Bonar Law, Leader of the British Opposition, and of Sir Edward Carson, July 30.

As the Prime Minister has informed the House, it is with our concurrence that he has made the
suggestion which we have just heard. At a moment like the present, when even those of us who
do not share diplomatic secrets feel that the statement of the Prime Minister is true, that
peace and war may be trembling in the balance, I think it is of the utmost importance that
it should be made plain to every one that, whatever our domestic differences may be, they do
not prevent us from presenting a united front in the councils of the world. I am obliged to
the Prime Minister for saying that in the meantime party controversial business will not be
taken. I am sure that it is his intention, as it would be the wish of the whole House, that
this postponement will not in any way prejudice the interests of any of the parties to the
controversy. I should like to add--and I do so, not to give information to the House, the members
of which quite understand the position, but in order that it may be plain outside that in what
I have now said I speak not only, so far as I am entitled to speak, for the Unionist Party,
but for Ulster--that in what I have just said I have the concurrence of my right honorable
friend the member for Trinity College [Sir Edward Carson].

       *       *       *       *       *

PEACE THE GREAT OBJECT.

Statement by Sir Edward Grey in House of Commons, July 30.

I regret that I cannot say the situation is less grave than it was yesterday. The outstanding
facts are much the same. Austria has begun war against Servia. Russia has ordered a partial
mobilization. This has not hitherto led to any corresponding steps by other powers, so far
as our information goes. We continue to pursue the one great object of preserving European
peace, and for this purpose we are keeping in close touch with other powers. In thus keeping
in touch we have, I am glad to say, had no difficulty so far; though it has not been possible
for the powers to unite in diplomatic action as was proposed on Monday.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUSSIA'S MOBILIZATION.

Statement in House of Commons by Prime Minister Asquith, Aug. 1.

We have just heard, not from St. Petersburg but from Germany, that Russia has proclaimed a
general mobilization of her army and fleet, and in consequence of this martial law is to be
proclaimed in Germany.

We understand this to mean that mobilization will follow in Germany if the Russian mobilization
is general and is proceeded with.

In these circumstances I should prefer not to answer any further question until Monday.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GERMAN INVASION.

Editorial Article of The London Times, Aug. 3.

The die is cast. The great European struggle which the nations have so long struggled to avert
has begun. Germany declared war upon Russia on Saturday evening, and yesterday her troops entered
Luxemburg and crossed the French frontier in Lorraine without any declaration at all. It is
idle to dwell upon events such as these. They speak for themselves in a fashion which all can
understand. They mean that Europe is to be the scene of the most terrible war that she has
witnessed since the fall of the Roman Empire. The losses in human life and in the accumulated
wealth of generations which such a contest must involve are frightful to think on. That it
should have come about despite the zealous efforts of diplomacy, and against the wishes of
almost all the nations whom it is destined to afflict, is a grim satire upon the professions
of peace yet fresh upon the lips of those who have plunged the Continent into its miseries
and its calamities. The blame must fall mainly upon Germany. She could have stayed the plague
had she chosen to speak in Vienna as she speaks when she is in earnest. She has not chosen
to do so. She has preferred to make demands in St. Petersburg and in Paris which no Government
could entertain, and to defeat by irrevocable acts the last efforts of this country and of
others for mediation. She has lived up to the worst principles of the Frederician tradition--the
tradition which disregards all obligations of right and wrong at the bidding of immediate self-interest.
She believes that her admirable military organization has enabled her to steal a march upon
her rivals. She has been mobilizing in all but name, while their mobilization has been retarded
by the "conversations" she continued until her moment had come. Then she flung the mask aside.
While her Ambassador was still in Paris, while by the customs traditional with all civilized
peoples she was still at peace with France, she has sent her soldiers into Luxemburg, and invaded
the territory of the republic. It is hard to say which of these acts is the grosser infringement
of public right. With Luxemburg she makes no pretense of quarrel. She is herself a party to
the guarantee of its neutrality contained in the Treaty of 1867. The other guarantors are Great
Britain, France, Russia, Italy, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, and the Netherlands. She solemnly
pledged herself with some of them, including France and ourselves, to respect this neutrality.
The world sees how Germany keeps her word. She has been weak enough, or cynical enough, to
issue an explanation of her breach of faith. Let Englishmen, who have been disposed to trust
her, judge it for themselves. She has not, she says, committed a hostile act by crossing the
frontiers, by forcibly seizing the Government offices, and by forcibly interrupting the telephonic
communication. These are merely measures to protect the railways from a possible attack by
the French. For the sudden invasion of France no excuse has yet been published. When it comes
it will doubtless be of about equal worth.

The whole situation has been revolutionized by the events of yesterday. The doubts which many
of us tried hard to cherish as to Germany's real intentions have been dispelled by her high-handed
contempt for public law. The Government and the nation now realize that she has been bent on
a European war--a European war to be waged in the first instance against France, and through
at least one of those neutral States whose safety we have bound ourselves to defend because
it is indispensable to our own. The Cabinet, which has been sitting almost uninterruptedly
since Saturday morning, reached a decision at an early hour yesterday, which shows that they
know what is before us. They have called up the Naval Reserves. They would not have taken this
step had they not felt that in this quarrel our interests are now directly at stake. After
the example of what Germany has done in Luxemburg and on the French border we can no longer
rely upon the presence of her Ambassador as a security against some sudden surprise. We have
no controversy with her, it is true. We have been willing and anxious to develop those better
relations with her which had of late sprung up. We were eager to work with her for mediation
and for peace. Now she has shown her hand. She is resolved to crush France, and to trample
upon the rights of those who happen to stand in her way. Yesterday it was Luxemburg. Today
it may be Belgium or Holland, or she may treat us as she has treated our French friends, and
assail us without a declaration of war. She will find the empire ready. Here at home and in
the far-off dominions the sure instinct of our peoples teaches them that the ruin of France
or of the Low Countries would be the prelude to our own. We can no more tolerate a German hegemony
in Europe than we can tolerate the hegemony of any other power. As our fathers fought Spain
and France in the days of their greatest strength to defeat their pretense to Continental supremacy,
and their menace to the narrow seas, which are the bulwark of our independence, so shall we
be ready, with the same unanimity and the same stubborn tenacity of purpose, to fight any other
nation which shows by her acts that she is advancing a like claim and confronting us with a
like threat. If any individual member of the Cabinet dissents from this view, the sooner he
quits the Government the better. Mr. Asquith may find it no disadvantage to take fresh blood
into his Administration, as M. Viviani has undoubtedly strengthened the French Government by
the admission of M. Delcassé and M. Clemenceau. The controversy between Austria-Hungary and
Servia, and that between Austria-Hungary and Russia, have passed away from the eyes of the
nation. These are fixed on the German attack upon the French Republic and upon Luxemburg. In
that conflict the nation know their duty. With the blessing of Heaven they will do it to the
uttermost.

       *       *       *       *       *

PEACE OF EUROPE CANNOT BE PRESERVED.

Sir Edward Grey's Speech in House of Commons, Aug. 3.

Last week I stated that we were working for peace not only for this country, but to preserve
the peace of Europe. Today events move so rapidly that it is exceedingly difficult to state
with technical accuracy the actual state of affairs, but it is clear that the peace of Europe
cannot be preserved. Russia and Germany, at any rate, have declared war upon each other.

Before I proceed to state the position of his Majesty's Government I would like to clear the
ground so that, before I come to state to the House what our attitude is with regard to the
present crisis, the House may know exactly under what obligations the Government is, or the
House can be said to be, in coming to a decision on the matter. First of all, let me say, very
shortly, that we have consistently worked with a single mind, with all the earnestness in our
power, to preserve peace. The House may be satisfied on that point. We have always done it.
During these last years, as far as his Majesty's Government are concerned, we would have no
difficulty in proving that we have done so. Throughout the Balkan crisis, by general admission,
we worked for peace. The co-operation of the great powers of Europe was successful in working
for peace in the Balkan crisis. It is true that some of the powers had great difficulty in
adjusting their points of view. It took much time and labor and discussion before they could
settle their differences, but peace was secured, because peace was their main object, and they
were willing to give time and trouble rather than accentuate differences rapidly.

In the present crisis it has not been possible to secure the peace of Europe; because there
has been little time, and there has been a disposition--at any rate in some quarters on which
I will not dwell--to force things rapidly to an issue, at any rate to the great risk of peace,
and, as we now know, the result of that is that the policy of peace as far as the great powers
generally are concerned is in danger. I do not want to dwell on that, and to comment on it,
and to say where the blame seems to us to lie, which powers were most in favor of peace, which
were most disposed to risk war or endanger peace, because I would like the House to approach
this crisis in which we are now from the point of view of British interests, British honor,
and British obligations, free from all passion as to why peace has not been preserved.

We shall publish papers as soon as we can regarding what took place last week when we were
working for peace, and when those papers are published I have no doubt that to every human
being they will make it clear how strenuous and genuine and whole-hearted our efforts for peace
were, and that they will enable people to form their own judgment as to what forces were at
work which operated against peace.

I come first, now, to the question of British obligations. I have assured the House--and the
Prime Minister has assured the House more than once--that if any crisis such as this arose
we should come before the House of Commons and be able to say to the House that it was free
to decide what the British attitude should be, that we would have no secret engagement which
we should spring upon the House, and tell the House that because we had entered into that engagement
there was an obligation of honor upon the country. I will deal with that point to clear the
ground first.

There have been in Europe two diplomatic groups, the Triple Alliance and what came to be called
the Triple Entente, for some years past. The Triple Entente was not an alliance--it was a diplomatic
group. The House will remember that in 1908 there was a crisis--also a Balkan crisis--originating
in the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Russian Minister, M. Isvolsky, came to London,
or happened to come to London, because his visit was planned before the crisis broke out. I
told him definitely then, this being a Balkan crisis, a Balkan affair, I did not consider that
public opinion in this country would justify us in promising to give anything more than diplomatic
support. More was never asked from us, more was never given, and more was never promised.

In this present crisis, up till yesterday, we have also given no promise of anything more than
diplomatic support--up till yesterday no promise of more than diplomatic support. Now I must
make this question of obligation clear to the House. I must go back to the first Moroccan crisis
of 1906. That was the time of the Algeciras Conference, and it came at a time of very great
difficulty to his Majesty's Government when a general election was in progress, and Ministers
were scattered over the country, and I--spending three days a week in my constituency and three
days at the Foreign Office--was asked the question whether, if that crisis developed into war
between France and Germany, we would give armed support. I said then that I could promise nothing
to any foreign power unless it was subsequently to receive the whole-hearted support of public
opinion here if the occasion arose. I said, in my opinion, if war was forced upon France then
on the question of Morocco--a question which had just been the subject of agreement between
this country and France, an agreement exceedingly popular on both sides--that if out of that
agreement war was forced on France at that time, in my view public opinion in this country
would have rallied to the material support of France.

I gave no promise, but I expressed that opinion during the crisis, as far as I remember almost
in the same words, to the French Ambassador and the German Ambassador at the time. I made no
promise and I used no threats; but I expressed that opinion. That position was accepted by
the French Government, but they said to me at the time, and I think very reasonably, "If you
think it possible that the public opinion of Great Britain might, should a sudden crisis arise,
justify you in giving to France the armed support which you cannot promise in advance, you
will not be able to give that support, even if you wish it, when the time comes, unless some
conversations have already taken place between naval and military experts." There was force
in that. I agreed to it, and authorized those conversations to take place, but on the distinct
understanding that nothing which passed between military or naval experts should bind either
Government or restrict in any way their freedom to make a decision as to whether or not they
would give that support when the time arose.

As I have told the House, upon that occasion a general election was in prospect; I had to take
the responsibility of doing that without the Cabinet. It could not be summoned. An answer had
to be given. I consulted Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, the Prime Minister; I consulted, I remember,
Lord Haldane, who was then Secretary of State for War, and the present Prime Minister, who
was then Chancellor of the Exchequer. That was the most I could do, and they authorized that,
on the distinct understanding that it left the hands of the Government free whenever the crisis
arose. The fact that conversations between military and naval experts took place was later
on--I think much later on, because that crisis passed, and the thing ceased to be of importance--but
later on it was brought to the knowledge of the Cabinet.

The Agadir crisis came--another Morocco crisis--and throughout that I took precisely the same
line that had been taken in 1906. But subsequently, in 1912, after discussion and consideration
in the Cabinet, it was decided that we ought to have a definite understanding in writing, which
was to be only in the form of an unofficial letter, that these conversations which took place
were not binding upon the freedom of either Government; and on the 22d November, 1912, I wrote
to the French Ambassador the letter which I will now read to the House, and I received from
him a letter in similar terms in reply.

Lord Charles Beresford--What is the date of that?

Sir E. Grey--The 22nd November, 1912. That is the starting point for the Government with regard
to the present crisis. I think it makes it clear that what the Prime Minister and I said to
the House of Commons was perfectly justified, and that, as regards our freedom to decide in
a crisis what our line should be, whether we should intervene or whether we should abstain,
the Government remained perfectly free, and, a fortiori, the House of Commons remains perfectly
free. That I say to clear the ground from the point of view of obligation. I think it was due
to prove our good faith to the House of Commons that I should give that full information to
the House now, and say what I think is obvious from the letter I have just read, that we do
not construe anything which has previously taken place in our diplomatic relations with other
powers in this matter as restricting the freedom of the Government to decide what attitude
they should take now, or restrict the freedom of the House of Commons to decide what their
attitude should be.

Well, Sir, I will go further, and I will say this: The situation in the present crisis is not
precisely the same as it was in the Morocco question. In the Morocco question it was primarily
a dispute which concerned France--a dispute which concerned France and France primarily--a
dispute, as it seemed to us, affecting France out of an agreement subsisting between us and
France, and published to the whole world, in which we engaged to give France diplomatic support.
No doubt we were pledged to give nothing but diplomatic support; we were, at any rate, pledged
by a definite public agreement to stand with France diplomatically in that question.

The present crisis has originated differently. It has not originated with regard to Morocco.
It has not originated as regards anything with which we had a special agreement with France;
it has not originated with anything which primarily concerned France. It has originated in
a dispute between Austria and Servia. I can say this with the most absolute confidence--no
Government and no country has less desire to be involved in war over a dispute with Austria
and Servia than the Government and the Country of France. They are involved in it because of
their obligation of honor under a definite alliance with Russia. Well, it is only fair to say
to the House that that obligation of honor cannot apply in the same way to us. We are not parties
to the Franco-Russian alliance. We do not even know the terms of that alliance. So far I have,
I think, faithfully and completely cleared the ground with regard to the question of obligation.

I now come to what we think the situation requires of us. For many years we have had a long-standing
friendship with France. I remember well the feeling in the House--and my own feeling--for I
spoke on the subject, I think, when the late Government made their agreement with France--the
warm and cordial feeling resulting from the fact that these two nations, who had had perpetual
differences in the past, had cleared these differences away; I remember saying, I think, that
it seemed to me that some benign influence had been at work to produce the cordial atmosphere
that had made that possible. But how far that friendship entails obligation--it has been a
friendship between the nations and ratified by the nations--how far that entails an obligation,
let every man look into his own heart, and his own feelings, and construe the extent of the
obligation for himself. I construe it myself as I feel it, but I do not wish to urge upon any
one else more than their feelings dictate as to what they should feel about the obligation.
The House, individually and collectively, may judge for itself. I speak my personal view, and
I have given the House my own feeling in the matter.

The French fleet is now in the Mediterranean, and the northern and western coasts of France
are absolutely undefended. The French fleet being concentrated in the Mediterranean, the situation
is very different from what it used to be, because the friendship which has grown up between
the two countries has given them a sense of security that there was nothing to be feared from us.

The French coasts are absolutely undefended. The French fleet is in the Mediterranean, and
has for some years been concentrated there because of the feeling of confidence and friendship
which has existed between the two countries. My own feeling is that if a foreign fleet, engaged
in a war which France had not sought, and in which she had not been the aggressor, came down
the English Channel and bombarded and battered the undefended coasts of France, we could not
stand aside, and see this going on practically within sight of our eyes, with our arms folded,
looking on dispassionately, doing nothing. I believe that would be the feeling of this country.
There are times when one feels that if these circumstances actually did arise, it would be
a feeling which would spread with irresistible force throughout the land.

But I also want to look at the matter without sentiment, and from the point of view of British
interests, and it is on that that I am going to base and justify what I am presently going
to say to the House. If we say nothing at this moment, what is France to do with her fleet
in the Mediterranean? If she leaves it there, with no statement from us as to what we will
do, she leaves her northern and western coasts absolutely undefended, at the mercy of a German
fleet coming down the Channel to do as it pleases in a war which is a war of life and death
between them. If we say nothing, it may be that the French fleet is withdrawn from the Mediterranean.
We are in the presence of a European conflagration; can anybody set limits to the consequences
that may arise out of it? Let us assume that today we stand aside in an attitude of neutrality,
saying, "No, we cannot undertake and engage to help either party in this conflict." Let us
suppose the French fleet is withdrawn from the Mediterranean; and let us assume that the consequences--which
are already tremendous in what has happened in Europe even to countries which are at peace--in
fact, equally whether countries are at peace or at war--let us assume that out of that come
consequences unforeseen, which make it necessary at a sudden moment that, in defense of vital
British interests, we shall go to war; and let us assume--which is quite possible--that Italy,
who is now neutral--because, as I understand, she considers that this war is an aggressive
war, and the Triple Alliance being a defensive alliance her obligation did not arise--let us
assume that consequences which are not yet foreseen and which, perfectly legitimately consulting
her own interests, make Italy depart from her attitude of neutrality at a time when we are
forced in defense of vital British interests ourselves to fight--what then will be the position
in the Mediterranean? It might be that at some critical moment those consequences would be
forced upon us because our trade routes in the Mediterranean might be vital to this country.

Nobody can say that in the course of the next few weeks there is any
particular trade route, the keeping open of which may not be vital to
this country. What will be our position then? We have not kept a fleet
in the Mediterranean which is equal to dealing alone with a combination
of other fleets in the Mediterranean. It would be the very moment when
we could not detach more ships to the Mediterranean, and we might have
exposed this country from our negative attitude at the present moment to
the most appalling risk. I say that from the point of view of British
interests. We feel strongly that France was entitled to know--and to
know at once--whether or not in the event of attack upon her unprotected
northern and western coasts she could depend upon British support. This assurance is, of
     course, subject to the policy of his Majesty's Government receiving
     the support of Parliament, and must not be taken as binding his
     Majesty's Government to take any action until the above contingency
     of action by the German fleet takes place.

I read that to the House, not as a declaration of war on our part, not as entailing immediate
aggressive action on our part, but as binding us to take aggressive action should that contingency
arise. Things move very hurriedly from hour to hour. Fresh news comes in, and I cannot give
this in any very formal way; but I understand that the German Government would be prepared,
if we would pledge ourselves to neutrality, to agree that its fleet would not attack the northern
coast of France. I have only heard that shortly before I came to the House, but it is far too
narrow an engagement for us. And, Sir, there is the more serious consideration--becoming more
serious every hour--there is the question of the neutrality of Belgium.

I shall have to put before the House at some length what is our position in regard to Belgium.
The governing factor is the Treaty of 1839, but this is a treaty with a history--a history
accumulated since. In 1870, when there was war between France and Germany, the question of
the neutrality of Belgium arose, and various things were said. Among other things, Prince Bismarck
gave an assurance to Belgium that--confirming his verbal assurance, he gave in writing a declaration
which he said was superfluous in reference to the treaty in existence--that the German Confederation
and its allies would respect the neutrality of Belgium, it being always understood that that
neutrality would be respected by the other belligerent powers. That is valuable as a recognition
in 1870 on the part of Germany of the sacredness of these treaty rights.

What was our own attitude? The people who laid down the attitude of the British Government
were Lord Granville in the House of Lords and Mr. Gladstone in the House of Commons. Lord Granville
on the 8th August, 1870, used these words. He said:

     We might have explained to the country and to foreign nations that
     we could not think this country was bound either morally or
     internationally, or that its interests were concerned in the
     maintenance of the neutrality of Belgium; though this course might
     have had some conveniences, though it might have been easy to
     adhere to it, though it might have saved us from some immediate
     danger, it is a course which her Majesty's Government thought it
     impossible to adopt in the name of the country with any due regard
     to the country's honor or to the country's interests.

Mr. Gladstone, spoke as follows two days later:

     There is, I admit, the obligation of the treaty. The great authorities upon foreign policy to whom
     I have been accustomed to listen, such as Lord Aberdeen and Lord
     Palmerston, never to my knowledge took that rigid and, if I may
     venture to say so, that impracticable view of the guarantee. The
     circumstance, that there is already an existing guarantee in force,
     is, of necessity, an important fact, and a weighty element in the
     case, to which we are bound to give full and ample consideration.
     There is also this further consideration, the force of which we
     must all feel most deeply, and that is, the common interests
     against the unmeasured aggrandizement of any power whatever.

The treaty is an old treaty--1839--and that was the view taken of it in 1870. It is one of
those treaties which are founded, not only on consideration for Belgium, which benefits under
the treaty, but in the interests of those who guarantee the neutrality of Belgium. The honor
and interests are, at least, as strong today as in 1870, and we cannot take a more narrow view
or a less serious view of our obligations, and of the importance of those obligations, than
was taken by Mr. Gladstone's Government in 1870.

I will read to the House what took place last week on this subject. When mobilization was beginning,
I knew that this question must be a most important element in our policy--a most important
subject for the House of Commons. I telegraphed at the same time in similar terms to both Paris
and Berlin to say that it was essential for us to know whether the French and German Governments
respectively were prepared to undertake an engagement to respect the neutrality of Belgium.
These are the replies.

From the German Government the reply was:

     The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs could not possibly give
     an answer before consulting the Emperor and the Imperial
     Chancellor.

Sir Edward Goschen, to whom I had said it was important to have an answer soon, said he hoped
the answer would not be too long delayed. The German Minister for Foreign Affairs then gave
Sir Edward Goschen to understand that he rather doubted whether they could answer at all, as
any reply they might give could not fail, in the event of war, to have the undesirable effect
of disclosing, to a certain extent, part of their plan of campaign. I telegraphed at the same
time to Brussels to the Belgian Government, and I got the following reply from Sir Francis
Villiers:

     Belgium expects and desires that other powers will observe and
     uphold her neutrality, which she intends to maintain to the utmost
     of her power. In so informing me, Minister for Foreign Affairs
     said, that, in the event of the violation of the neutrality of
     their territory, they believed that they were in a position to
     defend themselves against intrusion. The relations between Belgium
     and her neighbors were excellent, and there was no reason to
     suspect their intentions; but he thought it well, nevertheless, to
     be prepared against emergencies.

It now appears from the news I have received today--which has come quite recently, and I am
not yet quite sure how far it has reached me in an accurate form--that an ultimatum has been
given to Belgium by Germany, the object of which was to offer Belgium friendly relations with
Germany on condition that she would facilitate the passage of German troops through Belgium.
Well, Sir, until one has these things absolutely definitely, up to the last moment, I do not
wish to say all that one would say if one were in a position to give the House full, complete,
and absolute information upon the point. We were sounded in the course of last week as to whether,
if a guarantee were given that, after the war, Belgian integrity would be preserved, that would
content us. We replied that we could not bargain away whatever interests or obligations we
had in Belgian neutrality.

Diplomatic intervention took place last week on our part. What can diplomatic intervention
do now? We have great and vital interests in the independence--and integrity is the least part--of
Belgium. If Belgium is compelled to submit to allow her neutrality to be violated, of course
the situation is clear. Even if by agreement she admitted the violation of her neutrality,
it is clear she could only do so under duress. The smaller States in that region of Europe
ask but one thing. Their one desire is that they should be left alone and independent. The
one thing they fear is, I think, not so much that their integrity but that their independence
should be interfered with. If in this war which is before Europe the neutrality of one of those
countries is violated, if the troops of one of the combatants violate its neutrality and no
action be taken to resent it, at the end of the war, whatever the integrity may be, the independence
will be gone.

I have one further quotation from Mr. Gladstone as to what he thought about the independence
of Belgium. It will be found in "Hansard," Vol. 203, Page 1,787. I have not had time to read
the whole speech and verify the context, but the thing seems to me so clear that no context
could make any difference to the meaning of it.

No, Sir, if it be the case that there has been anything in the nature of an ultimatum to Belgium,
asking her to compromise or violate her neutrality, whatever may have been offered to her in
return, her independence is gone if that holds. If her independence goes, the independence
of Holland will follow. I ask the House from the point of view of British interests to consider
what may be at stake. If France is beaten in a struggle of life and death, beaten to her knees,
loses her position as a great power, becomes subordinate to the will and power of one greater
than herself--consequences which I do not anticipate, because I am sure that France has the
power to defend herself with all the energy and ability and patriotism which she has shown
so often--still, if that were to happen, and if Belgium fell under the same dominating influence,
and then Holland, and then Denmark, then would not Mr. Gladstone's words come true, that just
opposite to us there would be a common interest against the unmeasured aggrandizement of any power?

It may be said, I suppose, that we might stand aside, husband our strength, and that, whatever
happened in the course of this war, at the end of it intervene with effect to put things right,
and to adjust them to our own point of view. If, in a crisis like this, we run away from those
obligations of honor and interest as regards the Belgian treaty, I doubt whether, whatever
material force we might have at the end, it would be of very much value in face of the respect
that we should have lost. And do not believe, whether a great power stands outside this war
or not, it is going to be in a position at the end of it to exert its superior strength. For
us, with a powerful fleet, which we believe able to protect our commerce, to protect our shores,
and to protect our interests, if we are engaged in war, we shall suffer but little more than
we shall suffer even if we stand aside.

We are going to suffer, I am afraid, terribly in this war, whether we are in it or whether
we stand aside. Foreign trade is going to stop, not because the trade routes are closed, but
because there is no trade at the other end. Continental nations engaged in war--all their populations,
all their energies, all their wealth, engaged in a desperate struggle--they cannot carry on
the trade with us that they are carrying on in times of peace, whether we are parties to the
war or whether we are not. I do not believe for a moment that at the end of this war, even
if we stood aside and remained aside, we should be in a position, a material position, to use
our force decisively to undo what had happened in the course of the war, to prevent the whole
of the west of Europe opposite to us--if that had been the result of the war--falling under
the domination of a single power, and I am quite sure that our moral position would be such
as to have lost us all respect. I can only say that I have put the question of Belgium somewhat
hypothetically, because I am not yet sure of all the facts, but, if the facts turn out to be
as they have reached us at present, it is quite clear that there is an obligation on this country
to do its utmost to prevent the consequences to which those facts will lead if they are undisputed.

I have read to the House the only engagements that we have yet taken definitely with regard
to the use of force. I think it is due to the House to say that we have taken no engagement
yet with regard to sending an expeditionary armed force out of the country. Mobilization of
the fleet has taken place; mobilization of the army is taking place; but we have as yet taken
no engagement, because I feel that--in the case of a European conflagration such as this, unprecedented,
with our enormous responsibilities in India and other parts of the empire, or in countries
in British occupation, with all the unknown factors--we must take very carefully into consideration
the use which we make of sending an expeditionary force out of the country until we know how
we stand. One thing I would say.

The one bright spot in the whole of this, terrible situation is Ireland. The general feeling
throughout Ireland--and I would like this to be clearly understood abroad--does not make the
Irish question a consideration which we feel we have now to take into account. I have told
the House how far we have at present gone in commitments and the conditions which influence
our policy, and I have put to the House and dwelt at length upon how vital is the condition
of the neutrality of Belgium.

What other policy Is there before the House? There is but one way in which the Government could
make certain at the present moment of keeping outside this war, and that would be that it should
immediately issue a proclamation of unconditional neutrality. We cannot do that. We have made
the commitment to France that I have read to the House which prevents us doing that. We have
got the consideration of Belgium which prevents us also from any unconditional neutrality,
and, without these conditions absolutely satisfied and satisfactory, we are bound not to shrink
from proceeding to the use of all the forces in our power. If we did take that line by saying,
"We will have nothing whatever to do with this matter" under no conditions--the Belgian treaty
obligations, the possible position in the Mediterranean, with damage to British interests,
and what may happen to France from our failure to support France--if we were to say that all
those things mattered nothing, were as nothing, and to say we would stand aside, we should,
I believe, sacrifice our respect and good name and reputation before the world, and should
not escape the most serious and grave economic consequences.

My object has been to explain the view of the Government, and to place before the House the
issue and the choice. I do not for a moment conceal, after what I have said, and after the
information, incomplete as it is, that I have given to the House with regard to Belgium, that
we must be prepared, and we are prepared, for the consequences of having to use all the strength
we have at any moment--we know not how soon--to defend ourselves and to take our part. We know,
if the facts all be as I have stated them, though I have announced no intending aggressive
action on our part, no final decision to resort to force at a moment's notice, until we know
the whole of the case, that the use of it may be forced upon us. As far as the forces of the
Crown are concerned, we are ready. I believe the Prime Minister and my right honorable friend
the First Lord of the Admiralty have no doubt whatever that the readiness and the efficiency
of those forces were never at a higher mark than they are today, and never was there a time
when confidence was more justified in the power of the navy to protect our commerce and to
protect our shores. The thought is with us always of the suffering and misery entailed, from
which no country in Europe will escape by abstention, and from which no neutrality will save
us. The amount of harm that can be done by an enemy ship to our trade is infinitesimal, compared
with the amount of harm that must be done by the economic condition that is caused on the Continent.

The most awful responsibility is resting upon the Government in deciding what to advise the
House of Commons to do. We have disclosed our minds to the House of Commons. We have disclosed
the issue, the information which we have, and made clear to the House, I trust, that we are
prepared to face that situation, and that should it develop, as probably it may develop, we
will face it. We worked for peace up to the last moment, and beyond the last moment. How hard,
how persistently, and how earnestly we strove for peace last week the House will see from the
papers that will be before it.

But that is over, as far as the peace of Europe is concerned. We are now face to face with
a situation and all the consequences which it may yet have to unfold. We believe we shall have
the support of the House at large in proceeding to whatever the consequences may be and whatever
measures may be forced upon us by the development of facts or action taken by others. I believe
the country, so quickly has the situation been forced upon it, has not had time to realize
the issue. It perhaps is still thinking of the quarrel between Austria and Servia, and not
the complications of this matter which have grown out of the quarrel between Austria and Servia.
Russia and Germany we know are at war. We do not yet know officially that Austria, the ally
whom Germany is to support, is yet at war with Russia. We know that a good deal has been happening
on the French frontier. We do not know that the German Ambassador has left Paris.

The situation has developed so rapidly that technically, as regards the condition of the war,
it is most difficult to describe what has actually happened. I wanted to bring out the underlying
issues which would affect our own conduct, and our own policy, and to put them clearly. I have
now put the vital facts before the House, and if, as seems not improbable, we are forced, and
rapidly forced, to take our stand upon those issues, then I believe, when the country realizes
what is at stake, what the real issues are, the magnitude of the impending dangers in the west
of Europe, which I have endeavored to describe to the House, we shall be supported throughout,
not only by the House of Commons, but by the determination, the resolution, the courage, and
the endurance of the whole country.

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMANY AND BELGIUM.

Further Statement by Sir Edward Grey in House of Commons, Aug. 3, 1914.

I want to give the House some information which I have received, and
which was not in my possession when I made my statement this afternoon. A time limit of twelve
     hours was fixed for the reply. The Belgians have answered that an
     attack on their neutrality would be a flagrant violation of the
     rights of nations, and that to accept the German proposal would be
     to sacrifice the honor of a nation. Conscious of its duty, Belgium
     is firmly resolved to repel aggression by all possible means.

Of course, I can only say that the Government are prepared to take into grave consideration
the information which they have received. I make no further comment upon it.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNHESITATING SUPPORT.

Statement by Bonar Law, Opposition Leader, in House of Commons, Aug. 3.

The right honorable gentleman has made an appeal for support and it is necessary that I should
say a word or two, but they shall be very few. I wish to say in the first place that I do not
believe there is a single member in this House who doubts that not only the right honorable
gentleman himself, but the Government which he represents, have done everything in their power
up to the last moment to preserve peace. [Cheers.] And I think we may be sure that if any other
course is taken it is because it is forced upon them and that they have absolutely no alternative.
[Cheers.] One thing only further I should like to say. The right honorable gentleman spoke
of the bright spot in the picture which only a day or two ago was a black spot in the political
horizon. Everything that he has said I am sure is true and I should like to say this further--that
if the contingencies which he has not put into words, but which are in all our minds as possible,
arise, then we have already had indications that there is another bright spot--that every one
of his Majesty's dominions beyond the seas will be behind us in whatever act it is necessary
to take. [Cheers.] This only I should add. The Government already know, but I give them now
the assurance on behalf of the party of which I am leader in this House, that in whatever steps
they think it necessary to take for the honor and security of this country they can rely upon
the unhesitating support of the Opposition. [Loud Ministerial and Opposition cheers.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGED IRISH FEELING.

Statement in House of Commons, Aug. 3, by John E. Redmond, M.P.

I hope the House will not consider it improper on my part in the grave circumstances in which
we are assembled if I intervene for a very few moments. I was moved a great deal by that sentence
in the speech of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in which he said that the one bright
spot in the situation was the changed feeling in Ireland. May history repeat itself! [Cheers.]
Today there are in Ireland two large bodies of volunteers. One of them sprang into existence
in the North. Another has sprung into existence in the South. I say to the Government that
they may tomorrow withdraw every one of their troops from Ireland. [Cheers.] Is it too much
to hope that out of this situation there may spring a result which will be good not merely
for the empire, but good for the future welfare and integrity of the Irish Nation. [Loud cheers.]

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT BRITAIN'S ULTIMATUM TO GERMANY.

Prime Minister Asquith Explains Its Nature in House of Commons, Aug. 4, 1914.

Mr. Bonar Law--I wish to ask the Prime Minister whether he has any statement that he can now
make to the House?

The Prime Minister (Mr. Asquith)--In conformity with the statement of policy made here by my
right honorable friend the Foreign Secretary yesterday, a telegram was early this morning sent
by him to our Ambassador in Berlin. It was to this effect:

     The King of the Belgians has made an appeal to his Majesty the King
     for diplomatic intervention on behalf of Belgium. An answer was requested
     within twelve hours.

Simultaneously--almost immediately afterward--we received from the Belgian Legation here in
London the following telegram:

     General Staff announces that territory has been violated at
     Gemmenich (near Aix-la-Chapelle).

Subsequent information tended to show that the German force has
penetrated still further into Belgian territory. We also received this
morning from the German Ambassador here the telegram sent to him by the
German Foreign Secretary, and communicated by the Ambassador to us. Sincerity of this declaration is borne out
     by fact that we solemnly pledged our word to Holland strictly to
     respect her neutrality. It is obvious that we could not profitably
     annex Belgic territory without making at the same time territorial
     acquisitions at expense of Holland.

I have to add this on behalf of his Majesty's Government: We cannot regard this as in any sense
a satisfactory communication. We have, in reply to it, repeated the request we made last week
to the German Government, that they should give us the same assurance in regard to Belgian
neutrality as was given to us and to Belgium by France last week. We have asked that a reply
to that request and a satisfactory answer to the telegram of this morning--which I have read
to the House--should be given before midnight.

       *       *       *       *       *

PENETRATION OF BELGIAN TERRITORY.

Statement by Prime Minister Asquith in House of Commons, Aug. 5.

Mr. Bonar Law--May I ask the Prime Minister if he has any information he can give us today?

The Prime Minister--Our Ambassador at Berlin received his passports at 7 o'clock last evening
and since 11 o'clock last night a state of war has existed between Germany and ourselves.

We have received from our Minister at Brussels the following telegram:

     I have just received from Minister for Foreign Affairs [that is the
     Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs] a note of which the following
     is a literal translation:

        "Belgian Government regret to have to inform his
        Majesty's Government that this morning armed
        forces of Germany penetrated into Belgian
        territory in violation of engagements assumed by
        treaty.

        Belgian Government are further resolved to resist
        by all means in their power.

        Belgium appeals to Great Britain and France and
        Russia to co-operate, as guarantors in defense of
        her territory.

        There would be concerted and common action with
        the object of resisting the forcible measures
        employed by Germany against Belgium, and at the
        same time of guarding the maintenance for future
        of the independence and integrity of Belgium.

        Belgium is happy to be able to declare that she
        will assume defense of her fortified places."

We have also received today from the French Ambassador here the following telegram received
by the French Government from the French Minister at Brussels:

     The Chef du Cabinet of the Belgian Ministry of War has asked the
     French Military Attaché to prepare at once for the co-operation and
     contact of French troops with the Belgian Army pending the results
     of the appeal to the guaranteeing powers now being made. Orders
     have, therefore, been given to Belgian Provincial Governors not to
     regard movements of French troops as a violation of the frontier.

This is all the information I am at the moment able to give to the House, but I take the opportunity
of giving notice that tomorrow, in Committee of Supply, I shall move a vote of credit of £100,000,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

Great Britain's Mobilization

Measures Taken Throughout the Empire Upon the Outbreak of War.

Message from King George V. to the House of Commons, Aug. 5.

Mr. Asquith then proceeded to the bar amid cheers and, on being called upon by the Speaker,
announced: A message from his Majesty signed by his own hand. The announcement was received
with loud cheers, which were continued as Mr. Asquith advanced up the floor and handed the
document to the Speaker. All the members uncovered.

The Speaker read the message as follows:

     The present state of public affairs in Europe constituting in the
     opinion of his Majesty a case of great emergency within the meaning
     of the acts of Parliament in that behalf, his Majesty deems it
     proper to provide additional means for the military service and,
     therefore, in pursuance of these acts his Majesty has thought it
     right to communicate to the House of Commons that his Majesty is by
     proclamation about to order that the army reserve shall be called
     out on permanent service, that soldiers who would otherwise be
     entitled in pursuance of the terms of their enlistment to be
     transferred to the reserve shall continue in army service for such
     period not exceeding the period for which they might be required to
     serve if they were transferred to the reserve and called out for
     permanent service as to his Majesty may seem expedient; and that
     such directions as may seem necessary may be given for embodying
     the territorial force and for making such special arrangements as
     may be proper with regard to units or individuals whose services
     may be required in other than a military capacity.--Signed by his
     Majesty in his own hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

KING TO BRITAIN'S FLEET.

Message from George V. to Admiral Sir John Jellicoe, Aug. 5.

At this grave moment in our national history I send to you, and through you to the officers
and men of the fleets of which you have assumed command, the assurance of my confidence that
under your direction they will revive and renew the old glories of the royal navy, and prove
once again the sure shield of Britain and of her empire in the hour of trial.

GEORGE R. I.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAPOLEONISM ONCE AGAIN.

Speech by Bonar Law, Opposition Leader, in House of Commons, Aug. 6.

No Minister has ever fulfilled a duty more responsible or in regard to which the responsibility
was more acutely felt than that which has just been fulfilled by the right honorable gentleman.
This is not a time for speech-making, and I should have been quite ready to leave the statement
which he has given to the committee as the expression of the view, not of a party, but of a
nation. [Cheers.] But as this, I think, will be the only opportunity which will be given for
expressing the views of a large section of this House, I feel that I am bound to make it clear
to the committee and to the country what is the attitude of his Majesty's Opposition on this
question. There are two things which I desire to impress upon the committee. The first is that
we have dreaded war and have longed for peace as strongly as any section of this committee;
and the second is that in our belief we are in a state of war against our will, and that we,
as a nation, have done everything in our power to prevent such a condition of things arising.
[Cheers.] When this crisis first arose I confess that I was one of those who had the impulse
to hope that even though a European conflagration took place we might be able to stay out.
I had that hope strongly. But in a short time I became convinced that into this war we should
inevitably be drawn and that it really was a question only whether we should enter it honorably
or be dragged into it with dishonor. [Cheers.]

Folly and Wickedness.

I remember that on the first occasion after the retirement of my right honorable friend (Mr.
Balfour) when I had to speak on foreign affairs I made this statement. It perhaps is wrong,
though I do not think so even yet. I said that if ever war arose between Great Britain and
Germany it would not be due to inevitable causes, for I did not believe in an inevitable war,
but it would be due to human folly. [Cheers.] It is due to human folly and to human wickedness
[cheers], but neither the folly nor the wickedness is here. [Cheers.] What other course was
open to us? It is quite true, as the Foreign Secretary explained to the House the other day,
that we were under no formal obligations to take part in such a struggle. But every member
in this House knows that the entente meant this in the minds of this Government and of every
other Government, that if any of the three powers were attacked aggressively the others would
be expected to step in and to give their aid. ["Hear, hear!"] The question, therefore, to my
mind was this: Was this war in any way provoked by those who will now be our allies? No one
who has read the "White Paper" can hesitate to answer that question. I am not going to go into
it even as fully as the Prime Minister has done; but I would remind the House of this, that
in this "White Paper" is contained a statement made by the German Ambassador, I think at Vienna,
that Russia was not in a condition and could not go to war. And in the same letter are found
these words: "As for Germany, she knew very well what she was about in backing up Austria-Hungary
in this matter." Now, every one for years has known that the key to peace or war lay in Berlin,
and at this crisis no one doubts that Berlin, if it had chosen, could have prevented this terrible
conflict. [Cheers.] I am afraid that the miscalculation which was made about Russia was made
also about us. The dispatch which the right honorable gentleman referred to is a dispatch of
a nature which I believe would not have been addressed to Great Britain if it had been believed
that our hands were free and that we held the position which we had always held before the
entente. That, at least, is my belief.

Napoleonism Without a Napoleon.

We are fighting, as the Prime Minister said, for the honor and, what with the honor is bound
up always, the interest of our nation. But we are fighting also for the whole basis of the
civilization for which we stand and for which Europe stands. [Cheers.] I do not wish, any more
than the Prime Minister, to inflame passion. I only ask the House to consider one aspect. Look
at the way Belgium is being treated today. There is a report--if it is not true now it may
be true tomorrow--that the City of Liége is invaded by German troops and that civilians, as
in the days of the Middle Ages, are fighting for their hearths and homes against trained troops.
How has that been brought about? In a state of war, war must be waged. But remember that this
plan is not of today or of yesterday; that it has been long matured; that the Germans knew
that they would have this to face; and that they were ready to take the course which they took
the other day of saying to Belgium, "Destroy your independence. Allow our troops to go through,
or we will come down upon you with a might which it is impossible for you to resist." If we
had allowed that to be done, our position as one of the great nations of the world and our
honor as one of the nations of the world would in my opinion have been gone forever. [Cheers.]
This is no small struggle. It is the greatest, perhaps, that this country has ever engaged
in. It is Napoleonism once again. ["Hear, hear!"] Thank Heaven, so far as we know, there is
no Napoleon.

I am not going to say anything more about the causes of the war, for I do not desire to encourage
controversy on this subject. But if I may be allowed to say so, I should like to say that I
read yesterday with real pleasure an article in a paper which does not generally commend itself
to me--The Manchester Guardian. ["Hear, hear!"] In that article it still held that the war
ought not to have been entered upon; but it took this view, that that was a question for history,
and that now we are in it there is only one question for us, and that is to bring it to a successful
issue. [Cheers.]

Sir, I have full sympathy far more than at any other time for the Prime Minister and the Foreign
Secretary. I can imagine nothing more terrible than that the Foreign Secretary should have
a feeling that perhaps he has brought his country into an unnecessary war. No feeling could
be worse. I can say this, and, whether we are right or wrong, the whole House agrees with it,
I am sure, that that is a burden which the right honorable gentleman can carry with a good
conscience, [cheers,] and that every one of us can put up unhesitatingly this prayer: "May
God defend the right."

Trade and Food Supplies.

I should like, if I may, to pass to another topic, for this is the only opportunity I can have.
Consider the conditions under which this war is going to be carried on. I was pleased to hear
the Prime Minister say the other day in answer to a speech of the honorable member for Merthyr
Tydvil--he has developed it in describing the terms of this vote of credit--that he realized,
as we all must realize, that in a country situated like ours the development of industry and
the supply of food at home is just as much an operation of war as the conduct of our armed
forces. [Cheers.] I do not wish to minimize our difficulties, but I am quite sure--as sure
as I can be of anything--that there is no danger of a scarcity of food. ["Hear, hear!"] The
only danger is the fear of a scarcity of food. ["Hear, hear!"] Every one who has been in business
knows that what causes panic prices is not an actual scarcity at the time, but a fear of scarcity
coming. This is a case where every one of us must do all he can to impress upon the people
of this country that there is, as I believe, no danger. [Cheers.] Here I should like to give
one warning note. Remember--at least I believe it--that this war, unexpected by us, is not
unexpected by our enemies; and I shall be greatly surprised if we do not find that at first
on our trade routes there is a destruction of our property which might create a panic. That
is inevitable, I think, at the outset. Let us be prepared for it, and let us realize that it
has no bearing whatever on the ultimate course of the war. [Cheers.]

There is something else which I think it is important to say. We had a discussion yesterday
about credit. That is the basis of a successful war, as it is of every branch of industry at
this moment. I think the Government have taken the right course. I have followed it closely,
and I know that they have been supported by those who best understand the situation. I think
the danger is minimized as much as it can be. But, after all, the question of credit really
depends on what we believe is going to be the effect of this war upon our trade and our industry.

The Command of the Sea.

I hope the House will not think that I am too optimistic, but I do think there is a danger
of our taking too gloomy a view of what the effects will be, ["Hear, hear!"] and, by taking
that gloomy view, helping to bring about the very state of things which we all desire to avert.
Again I wish to guard myself against seeming to be too hopeful; but let us look at the effect
as if we were examining a chess problem. If we keep the command of the sea, what is going to
happen? It all depends on that. I admit that if that goes the position is gloomy indeed; but
of that I have no fear. [Cheers.] If we keep the command of the sea what is going to happen?
Five-sixths of our production is employed in the home trade. What goes abroad is very important,
and, of course, if the population which supplies this one-sixth were thrown out of work that
would react on the whole. But, after all, the total amount of our exports to all the European
countries which are now at war is only a small part of our total exports. There is here no
question of fiscal policy. We are far beyond that. It is a question of fact. Our total exports
to all the countries which are now at war do not, in my belief--I have not looked into the
figures--exceed our exports to India and Australia taken alone. Now, consider this, we shall
have freedom of trade, if the command of the sea is maintained, with the colonies and with
the whole of the American Continent, while, unfortunately for them, both our allies and our
enemies will not be competing with us in these markets. Look at it as a problem. I think we
have a right to believe, not that trade will be good, but that it will be much more nearly
normal than is generally supposed. [Cheers.] I hope the House will not think that that is a
useless thing to say at such a time. [Cheers.]

