THE DAKOTAN LANGUAGES

BY

A. W. WILLIAMSON.

AUGUSTANA COLLEGE, ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS.

FROM

AMERICAN ANTIQUARIAN, JANUARY, 1882.

THE DAKOTAN LANGUAGES, AND THEIR RELATIONS TO OTHER LANGUAGES.

BY A. W. WILLIAMSON.

To the ethnologist and to the philologist the Dakotas and those speaking kindred languages
are a very interesting people. There are four principal Dakota dialects, the Santee, Yankton,
Assinniboin and Titon. The allied languages may be divided into three groups:

I. a, Winnebago; b, Osage, Kaw, and 2 Quapaw; c, Iowa, Otoe and Missouri; d, Omaha and Ponka.

II. Mandan.

III. a, Minnetaree (Minitari) or Hidatsa; b, Absauraka, or Crow.

Pawnee and Aricaree seem also to be somewhat related.

In my father's opinion the Dakota dialects differ about as much as the Greek dialects did in
the time of Homer, and the Assinniboin is much nearer to the Yankton dialect of which it is
an offshoot than is the Titon. Judging by the vocabularies to which I have access chiefly in
Hayden's "Indian tribes of the Missouri," I would suppose the first group to differ from the
Dakota about as much as the German from the English, and to differ among themselves somewhat
as Hollandish, Friesian, and English. The Mandan appears to be separated much more widely from
them than they are from each other. The Minnetaree and Crow constitute a distinct group diverging
from each other more than the Santee and Titon, the extreme dialects of the Dakota. They show
more resemblance to the Mandan than to any other one of the class, but diverge very widely
from it. But very few words approximate identity. About one half of the words in Matthew's
Hidatsa dictionary appear to me to be in part at least composed of material related to the
Dakota, and about five per cent to fairly represent Dakota words. Many of these show little
similarity except as compared in the light of sound representation.

When first discovered the Dakotas and Assinniboins were nomads, living almost entirely by hunting
and fishing. The Dakotas, then probably less than ten thousand, are now more than thirty thousand
in number. There are probably about three thousand Assinniboins. The allied tribes, except
the Crows, when first found lived chiefly by agriculture. They have during the last hundred
years rapidly diminished in numbers, and do not number over twelve thousand including the Crows.

All of the Dakotan tribes and some others formerly made and baked pottery similar to that found
in the mounds of the Ohio valley. The Osages and some others lived in earth houses, whose ruins
are similar to those of the houses of the mound builders. The Minnetarees, Mandans and Aricarees
still live in houses of the same kind, and make and bake pottery. Measurements indicate that
the crania of the Dakotas in size of brain and angle decidedly approach the European form.
The cheek bones of the Dakotas are much less prominent than those of the Chippewas, and those
one-fourth Chippewa and three-fourths white have on an average darker complexions than those
half white and half Dakota. Among the Minnetarees and Mandans are many persons of light hair,
blue eyes, and tolerably fair complexion, not attributable to an infusion of Caucasian blood
since the time of Columbus.

No people take more pains to speak their language accurately than the Dakotas. Their social
condition is similar to that of the Arabs, whose language has within historic observation changed
more slowly than any other. The Assinniboins have been separated from the Dakotas about three
centuries, perhaps a little less, possibly much more. During all this time they have been entirely
separated, associating wholly with tribes speaking languages entirely different, and yet their
dialect remains almost identical with the Yankton. We are then encouraged to believe that their
language has not changed so rapidly as to obliterate traces of its origin.

So far as I have been able to ascertain them the most important features characteristic of
the Dakotan languages generally are the following:

I. Three pronominal prefixes to verbs, i, o and wa. I, this, forms nouns of instrument. O forms
nomen actionis, etc. Some Crow and Minnetaree words seem to indicate that its original form
was a. Wa, meaning some or something, prefixed to transitive verbs makes them intransitive
or general in their application. Wa is in Min. ma (ba, wa), in Crow, ba. Scantiness of material
prevents me from more than inferring the existence of these and other prefixes in the other
allied languages, from a few words apparently containing them.

II. A system of verbal prefixes used to form verbs from certain stems, regularly varied in
signification, according to the prefix used. The Dakota has seven of these prefixes. The Min.
has three of these almost identical in force. I should suppose that I would, with as much material,
find greater similarity in the other languages, but the only one I have been able to trace
at all generally is Dak yu. This merely converts the stem into a verb without changing its
meaning. Dak y is nearly always represented in the allied languages so far as I have observed
by r, d, l or n; so that I find it in Min. du (ru, lu, nu), Iowa, Mandan, and Crow ru, Omaha ra.

III. A reflexive pronoun tawa, Min. tama (tawa, taba), Iowa tawe, Osage tabe, forming from
possessive pronouns double possessives, related to their primitives somewhat as mine to my.
In some features of structure the Dakotan languages present an amazing diversity.

According to Powell (Int. to stud. Am.

On the other hand the Dakota could not vary the form of the verb to denote any of these things
except number, with reference to either subject or object. He would probably say: "Wichasta-wan
mastincha-wan kte,"--"man-a, rabbit-a, kill,"--in which each word is about synonymous with
its English equivalent, and case as in English denoted by position. If he wished to show that
the action was done by shooting, he would probably not vary the form of the verb kill, but
would use the verb kute, meaning shoot whether with arrow or bullet. Except that the Dak. order
corresponds to the Icelandic the only difference in structure between the Dak. and English
expression is that the Dakota word kte may mean any time, the particular time being indicated
whenever desirable in all cases in Dak. as mostly in English by auxiliary verbs and adverbs.
If the word man were represented by a pronoun the Dak. would be still more analytic, since
its pronoun would indicate any actor, male or female, or inanimate, unless it were desirable
to distinguish, in which case the distinction would be made by compounding the pronoun with
a suitable auxiliary word. In this feature, often given as characteristic of American languages,
is a variation the greatest possible between two languages closely related. It is also worthy
of remark that the Minnetaree, which I should suppose the most analytic of the group next to
the Dakota, is one of those that least resembles the Dakota in vocabulary. Some of the features
often assigned as peculiarities of American languages were according to Bopp and Schleicher
features of the I. E. languages in their earlier stages. Of most other features said to characterize
American languages I find in Dak. but faint traces. The Dak. does have verbs nearly synonymous
with go, walk, eat, drink, strike, etc. It is well supplied with purely copulative verbs. It
has differentiated the various parts of speech even to the definite and indefinite article.
It is sufficiently supplied with nouns denoting genera and classes. This is not a feature of
recent development. A much smaller proportion of general than of special names have lost trace
of origin.

The Dak does not have inclusive and exclusive plurals, etc. It does not have a multiplicity
of verb forms to denote mode and tense, but when necessary does denote them with elegance and
precision, by auxiliary verbs and adverbs, very much as we do in English. The Dakota is not
made up chiefly of very long words. On the other hand it uses a great many little particles
and connectives to express fine shades of meaning, wonderfully reminding one of the Greek.
It fully agrees with other American languages in its wonderful facility for forming derivatives.
The I. E. languages in their earlier stages possessed equal facility.

As a matter of fact we know scarcely anything concerning the structure of American languages
aside from the Algonquin and Iroquois groups, and a very few isolated languages. They have
been classified, in fact, almost entirely by examination of scanty and not very accurate vocabularies.
In investigating the relations of the Dakotan to other American languages we are therefore
compelled to base our conclusions chiefly on vocabulary. I once resided a year among the Chippewas,
and in various ways have had much better opportunities of comparing the Dakota with the Chippewa
than with any other American language. I have not been able to find a word alike in the two;
and but very few words even slightly similar in sound and sense. In pronouns few languages
in any part of the world are so strikingly contrasted. If I were to attempt an argument for
original affinity between Dakota and Chippewa my argument would be that so great dissimilarity
could not be the result of accident. Aside from the Cheyenne, an Algonkin language which has
incorporated some Dakotan words, and the Pawnee group, the similarities east of the Rocky mountains
are surprisingly few, though the Huron, Iroquois and Mobilian languages do not seem quite so
strongly contrasted as the Algonkin. Among the Eskimo, the tribes of the Pacific Slope, Mexico,
Central and South America, we occasionally find identical and not infrequently similar words.
In some the resemblances seem remarkable considering the size of the vocabulary. Closer examination
shows however that they are not of a kind to indicate a special relationship. They are almost
exclusively confined to a few pronominal bases of very wide diffusion, and the following: 1.
ata, tata. 2. papa, each meaning father; 1. ana, nana; 2. ma, mama, each meaning mother. As
an example I take the base ata, tata. Dakota, ate (dialect ata); Minnetaree, ate, tata, tatish;
Mandan, tata; Omaha, adi, dadi; Ponka, tade-ha; Aricaree, ate-ah; Pawnee, ate-ish.

Tuscarora ata; Cherokee e-dauda; Eskimo--Greenland ahtata, Aleutian ata, California, San Miguel
tata; Mexico Aztec teta; Otomi, ta, te; Yucatan, Cakchequil tata; Central Am. Tarasca tata;
Darien tauta; Eastern Peru, Mossa tata; Western Paraguay, Villela tata.

Congo Western Africa, tat, tata.

Japan dialect tete; Chinese dialect tia.

Turko Tartar, Turkish ata; Tatar ata, atha; Kunan atta; Kasanish, Orenburg, Kirgis ata; Samoyedic
dialects, Eastern Russia and Western Siberia ata, atai, atja, tatai; Finno Hungarian, Lap attje;
Hungarian atja.

Caucasus, Kisti dada. Basque (Pyrenees Mountains) aita.

Indo European: Sanskrit ata, tata; Hindustanee dada; Latin, atta, tatta; Greek atta, tatta;
Albanian, Albania, at, atti; Calabria and Sicily tata; Celtic, Welsh tad; Cornish and Bret
tat; Irish, daid; Gaelic daidein; English (according to Skeats of Welsh) dad, daddy; Old Slav,
tata otici; Moldavian tata; Wallachian tate; Polish tatus; Bohemian, Servian Croatian otsche;
Lithuanian teta; Preuss thetis; Gothic ata; Old Fries tate; O. H. G. tato; Old Swed atin; Swed
island Runoe dadda.

In fifty-nine of the one hundred and forty-six versions of the Lord's prayer given by Adelung
in the Sclavonic, Lithuanian and Teutonic families, the word for father is from this base.
Atta is the form used in Ulfillas Gothic version of the fourth century, the oldest Teutonic relic.

Papa and mama in Dak., as in I. E. languages, occupy a subordinate position, having about the
same scope as in Latin and Greek. Words apparently related to these are rare in N. A. languages,
but frequent in S. A., African, Malay Polynesian and Turanian languages. The Semitic aba, etc.,
is perhaps related. The base ana, nana (Dak. ina), though not very much used in I E languages
appears to be more widely distributed than any of the others.

All the Dakota pronouns which show much similarity to other American forms are representative
of Fick's I E bases, and appear to be widely disseminated. Adelung and Latham do not however
give pronominal forms in as many languages as they give words for father and mother, and I
cannot so well determine their distribution.

Professor Roehrig, in his able paper on the Dakota, points out some very interesting analogies
to Turanian languages. Others might be added. These similarities are chiefly in features common
to I. E. and Turanian. On the other hand the Dakota shows on the surface striking contrasts
to Turanian languages. The numerals are eminently dissimilar. The Dakota, like I. E. languages,
varies both root and suffix in forming words, and uses both prefixes and suffixes. In Turanian
languages the suffix only is varied, and prefixes are scarcely at all used.

It seems to me therefor that it is not unscientific to inquire whether the similarities of
the various Dakotan languages to various European languages, modern and ancient, so often remarked
are or are not accidental. It is very easy to see that the Dakota resembles the English in
vocabulary much more than it resembles the Chippewa. The similarities of the Dakota suffixes,
pronouns and prepositions to those given by Bopp, and the general resemblance of Dakotan languages
to Sanskrit, Gothic, etc., in vocabulary, made me certain of relationship before I ever saw
Fick's dictionary. Yet as I turned over his pages I was amazed at the similarity of the I.
E. roots to the Dak roots. The Slav Teut bases of Fick seem to me most similar to the Dak.
I am certain that neither the Teutonic or Graeco-Italic dictionaries resemble the Dakota as
much as do the European, Indo. European and Aryan dictionaries. The I. E. consonants are represented
in Dakota, Santee and Titon dialects, and in Minnetaree in accordance with the following table.
I omit representatives concerning which I am doubtful. I have too little material on the other
languages to justify me in including them.

---+----------------+---------+------------+----+---------+---------+------
I E|     k          |    g    |     gh     | p  |   bh    |   m     |  w
   |                |         |            |    |         |         |
S  | k, h, kh, sh[A]| k, h[B] | gh, kh, zh | p  | m, b, w |   m     | w, p
   |                |         |            |    |         |         |
T  |k, h, g[B], khsh| k, g[B] | gh, kh, zh | p  |   b, w  | m, b[C] | w, p
   |                |         |            |    |---------+---------+------
M  |k, h, gh[D], sh |  k      |     gh[D]  | p  |       m[F] (b, w) p
   +------+---------+---------+---+--------+----+--------------------------
I E|  t   |    d    | dh      | n | r, l[E]|y[E]|      s
   |      |         |         |   |        |    |
S  | t, n | t, d, n | d       | n |  n, d  |y, z|   s, sh, z, zh, t
   |      |         |         |   |        |    |
T  | t, n | t, l, n | l       | n |  n, l  |y, z|   s, sh, z, zh, t
   |      +---------+---------+---+--------+----+--------------------------
M  | t, d |  t     d[F] (l, n, r)         ts    |    ts, sh,     t
---+------+-------------------------------------+--------------------------

     FOOTNOTES:

     [Footnote A: Chiefly, probably not always, for Fick's second
     k, Lith sz (pron sh), Slav s. The k's and g's liable to
     labialization in Eu. languages appear to be occasionally
     labialized in Dakotan languages.]

     [Footnote B: In S. hd, Yankton kd, T. gl; S. hn, Y. kn, T. gn
     or gl; S. hm, Y. km, T. gm.]

     [Footnote C: In S. md, Y. bd, T. bl.]

     [Footnote D: In a previous paper I represented this by kh; and
     do not know whether it is nearest Dak kh German ch, or Dak gh;
     I E gh.]

     [Footnote E: Santee d always becomes l in Titon.]

     [Footnote E: Dak y becomes r, d, l or n in the allied
     languages, except perhaps the Osage, and perhaps in part
     represents I E r.]

     [Footnote F: In Minnetaree m, interchanges so freely with b
     and w, and d with l, n, and r, that Matthews represents each
     group by one letter. The same irregularity occurs largely in
     Crow, and somewhat also in Mandan.]

Ch as in chin very often occurs in Dak as a euphonic modification of k. Otherwise it stands
chiefly for d, r, l, n of the allied languages. On the other hand Win and Iowa ch usually represents
Dak, and I E t. R is found in all the allied languages, and in Winnebago is more frequent than
even in Icelandic. Iowa aspirate th, represents Dak s, and other sibilants. Hayden does not
distinguish the subvocal and aspirate th in Omaha. From a small list gathered by my father
I judge that the aspirate is probably similar to the Iowa, and that the subvocal represents
Dak and I E dentals. F in Iowa represents some Dak p's.

There is wonderful regularity in the sound changes in passing from Santee to Titon Dak, and
so far as I can yet discover great irregularity in passing to the allied languages. Possibly
fuller materials and closer study may reduce the changes to system.

Dak proper has but five vowels; a and e represent I E a; i, i; u, u; and o, either u or a.
They are weakened as in I E languages, and suffixes which raise I E vowels raise i and u to
a. The allied languages have a larger number of vowels, the Minnetaree ten.

VERB STEMS.

The reduplication of roots in Dak as in I E is extremely frequent, in both, as in other languages,
developing iteratives which occasionally become intensives. The reduplication of Dak words
is like Skt of but one syllable, usually but not always the root.

The suffix a, aya, which formed verb stems of I E roots usually becomes a, e, i in Dak as in
old Eu. languages.

Ya seems to be rarely preserved: I E pak cook, Skt papakaya parch; Dak papakhya parch; I E
agh say, Lat ajo for aghya say; Dak eya say. The Dak has many relics of the n of suffix na,
which worked its way before the final consonant; I E tag touch whence I E tang, Lat tango;
Dak tan touch. There seem to be relics of the other methods, which were however so closely
akin to methods of forming nominal stems that they need not be discussed here.

Schleicher gives two methods of forming secondary verb stems: by suffix sa forming frequentatives;
by suffix ya cause to be, forming transitive verbs from verbs, adjectives and nouns. Both are
living suffixes extremely frequent and having the same force in Dak.

NOMINAL STEMS.

As in I E a few Dak roots either single or reduplicated form nomen actionis, etc. This similarity
is too widely spread to be of value. It is far otherwise with suffixes, which are in a majority
of cases usually representative of one or more of Schleicher's twenty suffixes, and if otherwise
at least derived from I E roots, excepting a few of obscure origin.

1. I E -a formed from roots, adjectives, also appellatives, and abstracts, of which the Dak.
has many relics: I E stag, Teut stak strike beat; Dak staka beaten, broken; Slav. Teut kak
sound; Dak kaka rattling; I E pu stink, rot; Min pua stinking, rotten; Eu sap understand; Lat
sapa wise; Dak k-sapa wise.

