And since the unsocial character of Thoreau's theory of life has been one of the most serious
charges against it, his fine series of thoughts on love and marriage in this volume become
peculiarly interesting. "Love must be as much a light as a flame." "Love is a severe critic.
Hate can pardon more than love." "A man of fine perceptions is more truly feminine than a merely
sentimental woman." "It is not enough that we are truthful; we must cherish and carry out high
purposes to be truthful about." These are sentences on which one might spin commentaries and
scholia to the end of life; and there are many others as admirable.

His few verses close the volume,--few and choice, with a rare flavor of the seventeenth century
in them. The best poem of all, "My life is like a stroll upon the beach," is not improved by
its new and inadequate title, "The Fisher's Boy." The three poems near the end, "Smoke," "Mist,"
and "Haze," are marvellous triumphs of language; the thoughts and fancies are as subtile as
the themes, and yet are embodied as delicately and accurately as if uttered in Greek. Pioneers
of France in the New World. Boston: Little, Brown, & Co.

It has been known for nearly a score of years within our literary circles, that one of the
richest and least wrought themes of our American history had been appropriated by the zeal
and research of a student eminently qualified by nature, culture, and personal experience to
develop its wealth of interest. While very many among us may have been aware that Mr. Parkman
had devoted himself to the task of which we have before us some of the results, only a narrower
circle of friends have known under what severe physical embarrassments and disabilities he
has been restrained from maturing those results. He has fully and sadly realized, within his
own different range, the experience which he so aptly phrases as endured by his hero, the adventurous
and dauntless Champlain. Mr. Parkman has known well what these words mean. In his case, as
in that of Champlain, it was not from the burden of years and natural decay, but from the touch
of disease in the period of life's full vigor in its midway course, that mental activity was
restrained. When, besides the inflictions of a racked nervous system, the author suffered in
addition a malady of the eyes, which limited him, as he says, to intervals of five minutes
for reading or writing, when it did not wholly preclude them, we may well marvel at what he
has accomplished. And the reader will marvel all the more that the hindrances and pains under
which the matter of these pages has been wrought have left no traces or transfer of themselves
here. It may be possible that an occasional twinge or pang may have concentrated the terse
narrative, or pointed the sharp and shrewd moralizings of these pages; for there is an amazing
conciseness and a keen epigrammatic sagacity in them. But there is no languor, no feebleness,
no sleepy prosiness, to indicate where vivacity flagged, and where an episode or paragraph
was finished after the glow had yielded to exhaustion.

Mr. Parkman's theme is one of adventure on the grandest scale, with novel conditions and elements,
and under the quickening of master passions of a sort to give to incidents and achievements
a most romantic and soul-absorbing interest. Only incidentally, and then most slightly, does
he have to deal with state affairs, with court intrigues, or with diplomatic complications.
He has to follow men into regions and scenes in which there is so much raw material, and so
much of the originality of human conditions and qualities, that no precedents are of avail,
and it is even doubtful whether there are principles that have authority to guide or that may
be safely recognized. Nor could he have treated his grand theme with that amazing facility
and skill, which, as his work manifests them, will satisfy all his readers that the theme belongs
to him and he to it, had not his native tastes, his training, and his actual experience brought
him into a most intelligent sympathy with his subject-matter. Without being an adventurer,
in the modern sense of the term, he has the spirit which filled the best old sense of the word.
He has been a wide traveller and an explorer. Familiar by actual observation with the scenes
through which he has to follow the track of the pioneers whom he chronicles, he has also acquainted
himself by foot-journeys and canoe-navigation under Indian guides with scenes and regions still
unspoiled of their wilderness features. He has crossed the Rocky Mountains by the war-path
of the savages, and penetrated far beyond the borders of civilization in the direction of the
northern ice on our continent. He is skilled in native woodcraft, in the phenomena of the forest
and the lake, the winding river and the cataract. He has watched the aspects of Nature through
all the seasons in regions far away from the havoc and the finish of culture. He has been alone
as a white man in the squalid lodges of the Indians, has lived after their manner up to the
edge of the restraints which a civilized man must always take with him, and has consented to
forego all that is meant by the word comfort, that he might learn actually what our transcendentalists
and sentimentalists are so taken with theoretically. He knows the inner make and furnishings
of the savage brain and heart, the qualities of their thought and passions, their superstitions,
follies, and vices; and while he deals with them and their ways with the right spirit and consideration
of a high-toned Christian man, he yields to no silly inventiveness of fancy or romance in portraying
them. They are barely human, and they are hideous and revolting in his pages, as they are in
real life. Mr. Parkman knows them for just what they are, and as they are. Helped by natural
adaptation and sympathy to put himself into communication with them sufficiently to analyze
their composition and to scan their range of being, he has presented such a portraiture and
estimate of them as will be increasingly valuable while they are wasting away, to be known
to future generations only by the record.

It is through Mr. Parkman's keen observation and discernment, as a traverser of wild regions
and a student of aboriginal life and character, that his pages are made to abound with such
vivid and vigorous delineations. He has great skill in description, whether on a grand scale
or in the minutest details of adventure or of scenery. He can touch by a phrase, most delicately
or massively, the outline and the features of what he would communicate. He can strip from
field, river-bank, hill-top, and the partially cleared forests all the things and aspects which
civilization has superinduced, and can restore to them their primitive, unsullied elements.
He gives us the aroma of the wild woods, the tints of tree, shrub, and berry as the autumn
paints them, the notes and screams and howls of the creatures which held these haunts before
or with man; and though we were reading some of his pages on one of the hottest of our dog-days,
we felt a grateful chill come over us as we were following his description of a Canadian winter.

Mr. Parkman's subject required, for its competent treatment, a vast amount of research and
a judicious use of authorities in documents printed or still in manuscript. Happily, there
is abundance of material, and that, for the most part, of prime value. The period which his
theme covers, though primeval in reference to the date of our own English beginnings here,
opens within the era when pens and types were diligently employed to record all real occurrences,
and when rival interests induced a multiplication of narratives of the same events, to the
extent even of telling many important stories in two very different ways. The element of the
marvellous and the superstitious is so inwrought with the documentary history and the personal
narratives of the time, exaggeration and misrepresentation were then almost so consistent with
honesty, that any one who essays to digest trustworthy history from them may be more embarrassed
by the abundance than he would be by the paucity of his materials. Our author has spared no
pains or expense in the gathering of plans, pamphlets, and solid volumes, in procuring copies
of unpublished documents, and in consulting all the known sources of information. He discriminates
with skill, and knows when to trust himself and to encourage his readers in relying upon them.

It has been with all these means for faithful and profitable work in his possession, gathered
around him in aggravating reminders of their unwrought wealth, and with a spirit of craving
ardor to digest and reproduce them, that Mr. Parkman has been compelled to suffer the discipline
of a form of invalidism which disables without destroying or even impairing the power and will
for continuous intellectual employment. Brief intervals of relief and a recent period of promise
and hopefulness of full restoration have been heroically devoted to the production of that
instalment of his whole plan which we have in the volume before us.

That plan, as his first and comprehensive title indicates, covers a narration of the initiatory
schemes and measures for the exploration and settlement of the New World by France and England.
As France had the precedence in that enterprise, this first volume is fitly devoted to its
rehearsal. The French story is also far more picturesque, more brilliant and sombre, too, in
its details. There is more of the wild, the romantic, and the tragic in it. Mr. Parkman briefly,
but strikingly, contrasts the spirit which animated and the fortunes which befell the representatives
of the two European nations,--the one of which has wrought the romance, the other of which
has moulded the living development, of North America.

Under the specific title of this volume,--the "Pioneers of France in the New World,"--the author
gives us historical narratives of stirring and even heroic enterprise in two localities at
extreme points of our present territory: first, the story of the sadly abortive attempt made
by the Huguenots to effect a settlement in Florida; and second, the adventures, undertakings,
and discoveries of Champlain, his predecessors and associates, in and near Canada. The volume
is touchingly dedicated to three near kinsmen of the author,--young men who in the glory and
beauty of their youth, the joy and hope of parents who yielded the costly sacrifice, gave themselves
to the deliverance of our country from the ruin plotted for it by a slave despotism.

Mr. Parkman mentions--allowing to it in his brief reference all the weight which it probably
deserves--a vague tradition, which, had it been sustained by fact, would have introduced an
entirely new element into the conditions involved in the rival claims to the right of colonizing
and possessing America, as practically contested by European nations. The Pope's Bull which
deeded the whole continent to Spain, as if it were a farm, reinforced the claim already conventionally
yielded to her through right of discovery. For anything, however, to the knowledge of which
Columbus came before his death, or even his immediate successors before their death, all the
parts of America which he saw or knew might have been insulated spaces, like those in which
he actually set up Spanish authority. What might have been the issue for this continent, or
rather for the spaces which it covers, had it been really divided by the high seas into three
immense islands like Australasia, so that Spain, France, and England might have made an amicable
division between them, would afford curious matter for speculation. The tradition referred
to is, that the continent had been actually discovered by a Frenchman four years before the
first voyage of Columbus hitherward. A vessel from Dieppe, while at sea off the coast of Africa,
was said to have been blown to sight of land across the ocean on our shores. A mariner, Pinzon,
who was on board of her, being afterwards discharged from French service in disgrace, joined
himself to Columbus, and was with him when he made his great discovery. It may have been so.
But the story, slenderly rooted in itself, has no support. Spain was the claimant, and, so
far as the bold and repeated attempt of the Huguenots to contest her claims in Florida was
thwarted by a diabolical, yet not unavenged ruthlessness of resistance, Spain made good her
asserted right.

Mr. Parkman sketches rapidly some preliminary details relating to Huguenot colonization in
Brazil and early Spanish adventures. The zeal of the French Huguenots had anticipated that
of the English Puritans in seeking a Transatlantic field for its development. A philosophical
historian might find an engaging theme, in tracing to diversities of national character, to
the aims which stirred in human spirits, and to fickle circumstances of date or place, the
contrasted issues of failure and success in the different enterprises. To human sight or foresight,
the Huguenots had the more hopeful omens at the start. But religious zeal and avarice, combined
in a way most cunningly adapted to contravene, if that were possible, the Saviour's profound
warning, "No man can serve two masters," were, after all, only combined in a way to bring them
into the most shameful conflict. The Huguenot at the South shared with the Spaniard the lust
for gold; and the backers alike of Roman and Protestant zeal in Canada divided their interest
between the souls of the Indians and the furs and skins of wild animals.

The heroic and the chivalric elements in the spirit and prowess of these early adventurers
give a charm even to the narratives which reveal to us their fearful sufferings and their atrocities.
Physically and morally they must have been endowed unlike those who now hoe fields, make shoes,
and watch the wheels of our thrifty mechanisms. Avarice and zeal, the latter being sometimes
substituted by a daring passion for the romantic, nerved men, and women too, to undertakings
and endurances which shame our enfeebled ways. The partners in these enterprises were never
homogeneous in character, as were eminently the Colonists of New England. They were of most
mixed and discordant materials. Prisons were ransacked for convicts and desperadoes; humble
artisans and peasants were accepted as laborers; roving mariners, whose only sure port of rest
would be in the abyss, were bribed for transient service, the condition always exacted being
that they must be ready for the nonce to turn landsmen for fighting in swamp or bush. These,
with a sprinkling of young and impoverished nobles, and one or two really towering and master
spirits, in whom either of the two leading passions was the spur, and who could win through
court patronage a patent or a commission, made in every case, either South or North, the staple
material of French adventure.

After a graphic sketch of the line of Spanish notables in the New World,--of Ponce de Leon,
of Garay, Ayllon, De Narvaez, and De Soto,--Mr. Parkman concisely reviews the successive attempts
at a settlement in Florida by Frenchmen. His central figures here are Admiral De Coligny and
his agents, Villegagnon, Ribaut, and Laudonnière. They had no fixed policy towards the Indians,
and they followed the worst possible course with them. They wholly neglected tillage, and so
were in constant peril of starvation. They were lawless and disorderly in their fellowship,
and were always at the mercy of conspirators among themselves.

Beginning about the year 1550, and embracing the quarter of a century following, there transpired
on the coast of Florida a series of acts of mingled heroism and barbarity not easily paralleled
in any chapter of the world's history. Menendez, under his commission as Adelantado, having
effected the first European settlement in North America at St. Augustine, and the French having
established a river fort named Caroline, the struggle which could not long have been deferred
was invited. We have here a double narrative. While the French commander, Ribaut, is shipwrecked
in an enterprise by sea against St. Augustine, Menendez, by land, after a most harassing tramp
through forest and swamp, successfully assails Fort Caroline. Though he has pledged his honor
to spare those who surrendered to his mercy, he foully breaks his pledge, as no faith was to
be kept with heretics. A brutal massacre, which shocked even his Indian allies, signalized
his victory. An inscription on the trees under which he slaughtered his victims announced that
vengeance was wreaked on them, "not as Frenchmen, but as heretics."

These atrocities were in their turn avenged, after a similar fashion and in the same spirit,
by Dominique de Gourgues. It is doubtful whether he was a Huguenot; but he felt, as the French
monarch and court did not, the rankling disgrace of this bloody catastrophe. An intense hater
of the Spaniards, he gave his whole spirit of chivalry and prowess, in the approved fashion
of the age, to avenge the insult to France. Providing himself with three small vessels, navigable
by sail or oar, he gathered a fit company for his enterprise; but not till well on his way
did he reveal to them his real purpose, in which they proved willing coadjutors. He found the
Spaniards at their forts had alienated the Indians, who readily leagued with him. By a bold
combination and a fierce onslaught he carries the Spanish works, and retaliates on his fiendish
and now cowering prisoners by hanging them, "not as Spaniards, but as traitors, robbers, and
murderers." De Gourgues came to do this, not to make another attempt for a permanent settlement
in the interest of France. He therefore destroyed the forts, and with a friendly parting from
his red allies, much to their sorrow, returned home. Thus closes one episode in the world's
tragic history.

Turning now towards the North, Mr. Parkman takes a comprehensive review of the hazy period
of history covered by traditions and imperfect records, with vague relations of adventure by
Normans, Basques, and Bretons, on fishing expeditions to Newfoundland and the main coast. These
were followed by three exploring enterprises and partial settlements, between 1506 and 1518.
Verrazzano, with four ships, coasted along our shores, and was for fifteen days the guest of
some friendly Indians at Newport, the centre of our modern fashionable summer-life. Jaques
Cartier made two voyages in 1534-5, gave the name of St. Lawrence to the river, and visited
the sites of Quebec and Montreal. A third voyage was planned for 1541, to be followed by a
reinforcement by J. F. de la Roque, Sieur de Roberval. Its arrival being delayed, the famished
settlers, wasted by the scurvy, and dreading another horrid winter of untold sufferings, returned
home. Roberval renewed the occupancy of Quebec, and then there is a chasm and a broken story.

La Roche, in 1598, left forty convicts, adventurers in his crew, on Sable Island, merely for
a temporary sojourn while he should coast on. Being blown back to France in his vessel, these
forlorn exiles were left for five years on that dreary waste, and only twelve survivors then
remained to be rescued. Some wild cattle that had propagated from predecessors left by luckless
wanderers on a previous voyage, or which had swum ashore from a wreck, had furnished them a
partial supply. Pontgravé and Chauvin attempted a settlement at Tadoussac, the dismal wilderness
at the mouth of the Saguenay, thenceforward the rendezvous of European and Indian traders.
All these were preliminary anticipations of the real occupancy of New France. Champlain, Poutrincourt,
and Lescarbot, in 1607, established at Port Royal the first agricultural colony in the New
World. Then began that series of futile and vexatious dealings on the part of the French court,
in granting and withdrawing monopolies, conflicting commissions and patents, with confused
purposes of feudalism and restricted privilege, which embarrassed all effective progress, and
visited chagrin and disappointment on every devoted adventurer.

The great picture on Mr. Parkman's canvas is Champlain. That really noble-souled, heroic, and
marvellous man, whom our author appreciates, yet with sagacious discrimination presents to
the life, is a splendid subject for his admirable rehearsal. At the age of thirty-three he
becomes the most conspicuous, and, on the whole, the most intelligent, agent of the French
interest in these parts of the world. Dying at Quebec at the age of sixty-eight, and after
twenty-seven years of service to the colony, he had probably drawn his life through more and
a greater variety of perils than have ever been encountered by man. He was dauntless and all-enduring,
fruitful in resource, self-controlled and persevering, and, though not wiser than his age,
purer and more true. He was as lithesome as an Indian, and could outdo him in some physical
efforts and endurance. His almost yearly voyages between France and Quebec led him through
strange contrasts of court and wilderness life; but he was the same man in both. His discovery
of the lake which bears his name, his journey to Lake Huron, under the lure of the impostor
Vignau, encouraging his own dream of a passage through the continent to India, and his many
tramps for Indian warfare or discovery, are most attractive episodes for our author.

Mr. Parkman relates incidentally the massacre in Frenchman's Bay, the efforts and cross purposes
of the Recollets and the Jesuit missionaries, and furnishes a vivid sketch of the fortunes
of the settlement under threatened assaults from Indians and in a temporary surrender to the
English. He intimates the matter which he has yet in store. May we enjoy the coveted pleasure
of reading it!

Hesperus, or Forty-Five Dog-Post-Days. A Biography. From the German of J. P. Fr.

This romance, the first work of Jean Paul's which won the attention of his countrymen, is called
"Hesperus," apparently for no reason more definite than that the heroine, like a fair evening-star,
beams over the fortunes of the other personages, and becomes at length the morning-star of
one. The supplementary title of "Forty-Five Dog-Post-Days" is a quaint subdivision of the volumes
into as many chapters, each of which is a "Dog-Post-Day," because it purports to be dispatched
in a bottle round a dog's neck to an island within the whimsical geography which the author
loved to construct, and in which he pretended to dwell. Truly, the ordinary terra-firma was
of little consequence for home-keeping purposes to Jean Paul, as the reader will doubtless
confess before he has proceeded far through the maze of Extra Leaves, Intercalary Days, Extra
Lines, Extra Shoots, and Extorted Anti-critique. And the divisions which are busied with the
story, instead of carrying it forward, stray with it in all directions, like a genuine summer
vagabond to whom direct travel is a crime against the season. Many charming things are gathered
by the way; but if the reader is in haste to arrive, or thinks it would not be amiss at least
to put up somewhere, his patience will be severely tried. We do not recommend the volumes for
railway-reading, nor to clergymen for the entertainment of sewing-bees, nor to the devourer
of novels, in whose life the fiction that must be read at one sitting forms an epoch. It is
a good vade-mecum for a voyage round either Cape; its digressive character suits the listless
mood of the sea-goer, and he can drop, we will not say the thread, but the entanglement, in
whatever watch he pleases.

Let no one expect the critic to sketch the plot of this romance. It is a grouping of motives
and temperaments under the names of men and women, concerning whom many subtile things are
said and hinted; and they are pushed into and out of complicated situations, by stress of brilliant
authorship, without lifting their fingers. There is no necessary development nor movement:
the people are like the bits of glass which shake into the surprising patterns of the kaleidoscope.
The relation of the parties to each other is a great mystification, bunglingly managed: we
cannot understand at last how Victor, the hero of the chief love-passage, turns out to be the
son of a clergyman instead of a lord, and Flamin the son of a lord in spite of the plain declaration
on the first page that he belongs to a clergyman. No key-notes of expectation and surmise are
struck; the reader is as blind as the old lord who is Victor's reputed father, and not a glimmer
of light reaches him till suddenly and causelessly he is dazed. The author has emphasized his
sentiments, but has not shaded and brought out the features of his story. It is plain, that,
when he began to write, not the faintest notion of a dénouement had dawned upon his fancy.
The best-defined action in the book results from Flamin's ignorance that he is Clotilde's brother,
for he is thus jealous of his friend Victor's love for her. How break off Flamin's love for
his unknown sister? How rescue Victor from his self-imposed delicacy and win for him a bride?
This is the substance of the story, hampered by wild, spasmodic interpolations and intrigues
and didactic explanations.

The reader must also become inured, by a course of physical training, to resist the fiery onslaughts
of a sentimentality which was the first ferment of Jean Paul's sincere and huge imagination.
See, for instance, Vol. II. p. 229. And we cannot too much admire the tact which Mr. Brooks
has brought to the decanting of these seething passages into tolerable vernacular limits. Sometimes,
indeed, he misses a help which he might have procured for the reader, to lift him, with less
danger of dislocation, to these pinnacles of passion, by transferring more of the elevated
idiom of the style: for, in some of the complicated paragraphs, a too English rendering of
the clauses gives the sentiment a dowdy and prosaic air. We should not object to an occasional
inversion of the order, even where Jean Paul himself is more direct than usual; for this always
appeared to us to lend a racy German flavor to the page. No doubt Jean Paul needs, first of
all, to be made comprehensible; but if his style is too persistently Anglicized, many places
will be reached where the sense itself must suffer for want of the picturesqueness of the German
idiom. The quaintness will grow flat, the color of the sentiment will almost disappear, the
rich paragraphs will run thinly clad, disenchanted like Cinderella at midnight. Some of Mr.
Carlyle's translations from the German are invigorated by this Teutonicizing of the English,
and by the sincerity of phrases transferred directly as they first came molten from the pen.
This may be pushed to the point of affectation; but judiciously used, it is suited to Jean
Paul's fervor and abandonment.

There is also a rhythm in his exalted moments, a delicate and noble swing of the clauses, not
easy to transfer: as in the Eighth Dog-Post-Day, the paragraph commencing, "Wehe gröszere Wellen
auf mich zu, Morgenluft!" "Thou morning-air, break over me in greater waves! Bathe me in thy
vast billows which roll above our woods and meadows, and bear me in blossom clouds past radiant
gardens and glimmering streams, and let me die gently floating above the earth, rocked amid
flying flowers and butterflies, and dissolving with outspread arms beneath the sun; while all
my veins fall blended into red morning-flakes down to the flowers," etc. But this may appear
finical to Mr. Brooks. We certainly do not press it critically against his great and general
success. Such a paragraph as, for instance, the closing one upon page 340 of Vol. II. is very
trying to the resources of the translator. Here Mr. Brooks has sacrificed to literalness an
opportunity to sort the confused clauses and stop their jostling: this may be done without
diluting the sentiment, and is within the translator's liberty.

It always seemed to us that the finest part of "Hesperus," and one of the finest passages of
German literature, is contained in the Ninth Dog-Post-Day and some pages of the Tenth. The
Ninth, in particular, which is a perfect idyl, describes Victor's walk to Kussewitz: all the
landscape is made to share and symbolize his rapture: the people in the fields, the framework
of an unfinished house, the two-wheeled hut of the shepherd, are not only well painted, but
turned most naturally to the help of interpreting his feeling. The chapter has also a direct
and unembarrassed movement, which is rare in this romance. And it is beautifully translated.

The reader must understand that Victor is called by various names; so that, if he merely dips
into the book, as we suspect he will until his sympathy is enlisted by some fine thought, his
ignorance will increase the frantic and dishevelled state of the story. Victor is Horion, Sebastian,
and Bastian; a susceptible youth, profoundly affected by the presence of noble or handsome
women, and brought into situations that test his delicacy. He smuggles a declaration of love
into a watch which he sells, in the disguise of an Italian merchant, to the Princess Agnola,
on occasion of her first reception at the court of her husband. He is ashamed of this after
he begins to know Clotilde, who is one of Jean Paul's pure and noble women; and he is at one
time full of dread lest the Princess had read his watch-paper, and at another full of pique
at the suspicion that she had not. Being court-physician and oculist, he has frequent opportunities
to visit Agnola, and there is one rather florid occasion which the midnight cry of the street-watch
man interrupts. But all this time, the inflammable Victor was indulging a kind of tenderness
for Joachime, maid-of-honor and attractive female. As the love for Clotilde deepens, he must
destroy these partialities for Agnola and Joachime. This is no easy matter; what with the watch-paper
and various emphatic passages of something more than friendship, the true love does not at
once stand forth, that he may find "the partition-wall between love and friendship with women
to be very visible and very thick." But one day the accursed watch-paper flutters into Joachime's
hand, who at once takes it for a declaration of love to herself, and beams with appropriate
tenderness. Victor, seized with sudden coldness and resolution, confesses all to Joachime;
and the story, released from its feminine embarrassments, would soon reach a honeymoon, if
it were not for the difficulty of deciding the parentage and relationship of the various characters.
A wise child knows its own father; but no endowment of wisdom in the reader will harmonize
the genealogy of this romance. A birth-mark of a Stettin apple, which is visible only in autumn
when that fruit is ripening, plays the part of Box's strawberry in the farce, and with as much
perspicuity.

However, the characters are all respectably connected at last, and the reader does not care
to understand how they were ever disconnected: for Lord Horion's motive in putting the children
of the old Prince out of the way, and keeping up such an expensive mystification, can be justified
only by an interesting plot. But American readers have learned by this time, much to their
credit, not to apply to Jean Paul for the sensation of a cunningly woven narrative, like that
of the English school, which furnishes verisimilitude to real life that is quite as improbable,
though less glaringly so, than his departures from it. "Hesperus" is filled with pure and noble
thought. The different types of female character are particularly well-defined; and if Jean
Paul sometimes affects to say cynical things of women, he cannot veil his passionate regard
for them, nor his profound appreciation of the elements of their influence in forming true
society and refining the hearts of men. Notice the delicacy of the "Extra Leaf on Houses full
of Daughters." It is chiefly with the women of his romances that Jean Paul succeeds in depicting
individuals. And when we recollect the corrupt and decaying generation out of which his genius
sprang, like a newly created species, to give a salutary shock to Gallic tastes, and lend a
sturdy country vigor to the new literature, we reverence his faithfulness, his incorruptible
humanity, his contempt for petty courts and faded manners, his passion for Nature, and his
love of God. All these characteristics are so broadly printed upon his pages that the obsoleteness
of the narrative does not hide them.

In view of a second edition, we refer to Mr. Brooks's consideration a few places, with wonder
at his general accuracy in the translation of obscure passages and the explanation of allusions.

Vol. I. page 22. Sakeph-Katon (Zaqueph Qaton) is an occasional pause-accent of the Hebrew,
having the sense of "elevator minor," and is peculiar to prose.

Page 68. The famous African Prince Le Boo deserves a note.

Page 111. Ripieno is an Italian musical term, meaning that which accompanies and strengthens.

Page 114. Gränswildpret does not mean "frontier wild-game," but game that, straying out of
one precinct into another, gets captured: stray game, or impounded waif.

Page 139. The note gives the sense, but the corresponding passage in the text would stand clearer
thus: "not a noble heart, by any means; for such things Le Baut's golden key, though bored
like a cannon, could fasten rather."

Page 179. A note required: the passage of Shakspeare is, "Antony and Cleopatra," Act V., Scene 2:--

    "His face was as the heavens; and therein stuck
    A sun and moon; which kept their course, and lighted
    The little O, the earth."

Territory of an old lady should be "prayer of an old lady." Gebet, not Gebiet.

Page 209. Eirunde Loch would be better represented by its anatomical equivalent, foramen ovale.
It should be closed before birth; in the rare cases where it is left open after birth, the
child lives half asphyxiated.

Page 224, note. Semperfreie is not from the Latin, but comes from sendbarfreie, that is, eligible,
free to be sent or elected to offices, and consequently, immediately subject to the Reich,
or Holy Roman Empire.

Page 235. An Odometer is an apparatus for measuring distances travelled by whatsoever vehicle.

Page 275. Incunabula means specimens of the first printed edition of a work; also the first
impressions of the first edition, the firstlings of old editions.

Page 317. Wackelfiguren means figures made of Wacke, a greenish-gray mineral, soft and easily
broken.

Page 322. The note is equivocal, since the phrase is used by fast women who keep some one in
their pay.

Vol. II., page 122. Columbine is not equivalent to ballet-dancer; it is the old historical
personage of the pantomime, confederate and lover of Harlequin, who protects her from false love.