It is too much, however, to suppose that the instructions can be made "fool-proof." With whatever
definiteness they may be set forth, situations are sure to arise which the examiner cannot
be formally prepared for. There is no limit to the multitude of misunderstandings possible.
After testing hundreds of children one still finds new examples of misapprehension. In a few
such cases the instruction may be repeated, if there is reason to think the child's hearing
was at fault or if some extraordinary distraction has occurred. But unless otherwise stated
in the directions, the repetition of a question is ordinarily to be avoided. Supplementary
explanations are hardly ever permissible.

In short, numberless situations may arise in the use of a test which may injure the validity
of the response, events which cannot always be dealt with by preconceived rule. Accordingly,
although we must urge unceasingly the importance of following the standard procedure, it is
not to be supposed that formulas are an adequate substitute either for scientific judgment
or for common sense.

SCORING. The exact method of scoring the individual tests is set forth in the following chapters.
Reference to the record booklet for use in testing will show that the records are to be kept
in detail. Each subdivision of a test should be scored separately, in order that the clinical
picture may be as complete as possible. This helps in the final evaluation of the results.
It makes much difference, for example, whether success in repeating six digits is earned by
repeating all three correctly or only one; or whether the child's lack of success with the
absurdities is due to failure on two, three, four, or all of them. Time should be recorded
whenever called for in the record blanks.

RECORDING RESPONSES. Plus and minus signs alone are not usually sufficient. Whenever possible
the entire response should be recorded. If the test results are to be used by any other person
than the examiner, this is absolutely essential. Any other standard of completeness opens the
door to carelessness and inaccuracy. In nearly all the tests, except that of naming sixty words,
the examiner will find it possible by the liberal use of abbreviations to record practically
the entire response verbatim. In doing so, however, one must be careful to avoid keeping the
child waiting. Occasionally it is necessary to leave off recording altogether because of the
embarrassment sometimes aroused in the child by seeing his answer written down. The writer
has met the latter difficulty several times. When for any reason it is not feasible to record
anything more than score marks, success may be indicated by the sign +, failure by -, and half
credit by ½. An exceptionally good response may be indicated by ++ and an exceptionally poor
response by --. If there is a slight doubt about a success or failure the sign? may be added
to the + or -. In general, however, score the response either + or -, avoiding half credit
as far as it is possible to do so.

If the entire response is not recorded it is necessary to record at least the score mark for
each test when the test is given. It must be borne in mind that the scoring is not a purely
mechanical affair. Instead, the judgment of the examiner must come into play with every record
made. If the scoring is delayed, there is not only the danger of forgetting a response, but
the judgment is likely to be influenced by the subject's responses to succeeding questions.
Our special record booklet contains wide margins, so that extended notes and observations regarding
the child's responses and behavior can be recorded as the test proceeds.

SCATTERING OF SUCCESSES. It is sometimes a source of concern to the untrained examiner that
the successes and failures should be scattered over quite an extensive range of years. Why,
it may be asked, should not a child who has 10-year intelligence answer correctly all the tests
up to and including group X, and fail on all the tests beyond? There are two reasons why such
is almost never the case. In the first place, the intelligence of an individual is ordinarily
not even. There are many different kinds of intelligence, and in some of these the subject
is better endowed than in others. A second reason lies in the fact that no test can be purely
and simply a test of native intelligence. Given a certain degree of intelligence, accidents
of experience and training bring it about that this intelligence will work more successfully
with some kinds of material than with others. For both of these reasons there results a scattering
of successes and failures over three or four years. The subject fails first in one or two tests
of a group, then in two or three tests of the following group, the number of failures increasing
until there are no successes at all. Success "tapers off" from 100 per cent to 0. Once in a
great while a child fails on several of the tests of a given year and succeeds with a majority
of those in the next higher year. This is only an extreme instance of uneven intelligence or
of specialized experience, and does not necessarily reflect upon the reliability of the tests
for children in general. The method of calculation given above strikes a kind of average and
gives the general level of intelligence, which is essentially the thing we want to know.

SUPPLEMENTARY CONSIDERATIONS. It would be a mistake to suppose that any set of mental tests
could be devised which would give us complete information about a child's native intelligence.
There are no tests which are absolutely pure tests of intelligence. All are influenced to a
greater or less degree also by training and by social environment. For this reason, all the
ascertainable facts bearing on such influences should be added to the record of the mental
examination, and should be given due weight in reaching a final conclusion as to the level
of intelligence.

The following supplementary information should be gathered, when possible:--

  1.  Social status (very superior, superior, average, inferior, or
      very inferior).

  2.  The teacher's estimate of the child's intelligence (very
      superior, superior, average, inferior, or very inferior).

  3.  School opportunities, including years of attendance,
      regularity, retardation or acceleration, etc.

  4.  Quality of school work (very superior, superior, average,
      inferior, or very inferior).

  5.  Physical handicaps, if any (adenoids, diseased tonsils, partial
      deafness, imperfect vision, malnutrition, etc.).

In addition, the examiner will need to take account of the general attitude of the child during
the examination. This is provided for in the record blanks under the heading "comments." The
comments should describe as fully as possible the conduct and attitude of the child during
the examination, with emphasis upon such disturbing factors as fear, timidity, unwillingness
to answer, overconfidence, carelessness, lack of attention, etc. Sometimes, also, it is desirable
to verify the child's age and to make record of the verification.

Once more let it be urged that no degree of mechanical perfection of the tests can ever take
the place of good judgment and psychological insight. Intelligence is too complicated to be
weighed, like a bag of grain, by any one who can read figures.

ALTERNATIVE TESTS. The tests designated as "alternative tests" are not intended for regular
use. Inasmuch as they have been standardized and belong in the year group where they are placed,
they may be used as substitute tests on certain occasions. Sometimes one of the regular tests
is spoiled in giving it, or the requisite material for it may not be at hand. Sometimes there
may be reason to suspect that the subject has become acquainted with some of the tests. In
such cases it is a great convenience to have a few substitutes available.

It is necessary, however, to warn against a possible misuse of alternative tests. It is not
permissible to count success in an alternative test as offsetting failure in a regular test.
This would give the subject too much leeway of failure. There are very exceptional cases, however,
when it is legitimate to break this rule; namely, when one of the regular tests would be obviously
unfair to the subject being tested. In year X, for example, one of the three alternative tests
should be substituted for the reading test (X, 4) in case we are testing a subject who has
not had the equivalent of at least two years of school work. In year VIII, it would be permissible
to substitute the alternative test of naming six coins, instead of the vocabulary test, in
the case of a subject who came from a home where English was not spoken. In VII, it would perhaps
not be unfair to substitute the alternative test, in place of the test of copying a diamond,
in the case of a subject who, because of timidity or embarrassment, refused to attempt the
diamond. But it would be going entirely too far to substitute an alternative test in the place
of every regular test which the subject responded to by silence. In the large majority of cases
persistent silence deserves to be scored failure.

Certain tests have been made alternatives because of their inferior value, some because the
presence of other tests of similar nature in the same year rendered them less necessary.

FINDING MENTAL AGE. As there are six tests in each age group from III to X, each test in this
part of the scale counts 2 months toward mental age. There are eight tests in group XII, which,
because of the omission of the 11-year group, have a combined value of 24 months, or 3 months
each. Similarly, each of the six tests in XIV has a value of 4 months (24 ÷ 6 = 4). The tests
of the "average adult" group are given a value of 5 months each, and those of the "superior
adult" group a value of 6 months each. These values are in a sense arbitrary, but they are
justified in the fact that they are such as to cause ordinary adults to test at the "average
adult" level.

The calculation of mental age is therefore simplicity itself. The rule is: (1) Credit the subject
with all the tests below the point where the examination begins (remembering that the examination
goes back until a year group has been found in which all the tests are passed); and (2) add
to this basal credit 2 months for each test passed successfully up to and including year X,
3 months for each test passed in XII, 4 months for each test passed in XIV, 5 months for each
success in "average adult," and 6 months for each success in "superior adult."

For example, let us suppose that a child passes all the tests in VI, five of the six tests
in VII, three in VIII, two in IX, and one in X. The total credit earned is as follows:--

                                                       YearsMonths
    Credit presupposed, years I to V                        5
    Credit earned in VI, 6 tests passed, 2 months each      1
    Credit earned in VII, 5 tests passed, 2 months each          10
    Credit earned in VIII, 3 tests passed, 2 months each          6
    Credit earned in IX, 2 tests passed, 2 months each            4
    Credit earned in X, 1 test passed, 2 months                   2
                                                          ----  ----
        Total credit                                        7    10

Taking a subject who tests higher, let us suppose the following tests are passed: All in X,
six of the eight in XII, two of the six in XIV, and one of the six in "average adult." Suppose,
for example, a subject has been given only four of the six tests in a given year, and that
he passes two, or half of those given. In such a case the probability would be that had all
six tests been given, three would have been passed; that is, one half of all. It is evident,
therefore, that when a test has been omitted, a proportionately larger value should be assigned
to each of those given.

If all six tests are given in any year group below XII, each has a value of 2 months. If only
four are given, each has a value of 3 months (12 ÷ 4 = 3). If five tests only are given, each
has a value of 2.4 months (12 ÷ 5 = 2.4). If in year group XII only six of the eight tests
are given, each has a value of 4 months (24 ÷ 6 = 4). If in the "average adult" group only
five of the six tests are given, each has a value of 6 months instead of the usual 5 months.
In this connection it will need to be remembered that the six "average adult" tests have a
combined value of 30 months (6 tests, 5 months each); also that the combined value of the six
"superior adult" tests is 36 months (6 × 6 = 36). Accordingly, if only five of the six "superior
adult" tests are given, the value of each is 36 ÷ 5 = 7.2 months.

For example, let us suppose that a subject has been tested as follows:
All the six tests in X were given and all were passed; only six of the
eight in XII were given and five were passed; five of the six in XIV
were given and three were passed; five of the six in "average adult"
were given and one was passed; five were given in "superior adult" and
no credit earned. Unit value
        of each test given is 24 ÷ 6 = 4. Total value
        of the 5 tests passed is 5 × 4 or                   1     8
    Credit earned in XIV, 5 tests given, 3 passed. Unit
        value of each of the 5 given is 24 ÷ 5 = 4.8.
        Value of the 3 passed is 3 × 4.8, or                0    14+
    Credit earned in "average adult," 5 tests given,
        1 passed. Unit value of the 5 tests given is
        30 ÷ 5 = 6. Value of the 1 success                  0     6
    Credit earned in "superior adult"                       0     0
                                                          ----  ----
          Total credit                                     13     4+

The calculation of mental age is really simpler than our verbal illustrations make it appear.
After the operation has been performed twenty or thirty times, it can be done in less than
a half-minute without danger of error.

THE USE OF THE INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT. As elsewhere explained, the mental age alone does not
tell us what we want to know about a child's intelligence status. The significance of a given
number of years of retardation or acceleration depends upon the age of the child. A 3-year-old
child who is retarded one year is ordinarily feeble-minded; a 10-year-old retarded one year
is only a little below normal. The child who at 3 years of age is retarded one year will probably
be retarded two years at the age of 6, three years at the age of 9, and four years at the age
of 12.

What we want to know, therefore, is the ratio existing between mental age and real age. This
is the intelligence quotient, or I Q. To find it we simply divide mental age (expressed in
years and months) by real age (also expressed in years and months). The process is easier if
we express each age in terms of months alone before dividing. The division can, of course,
be performed almost instantaneously and with much less danger of error by the use of a slide
rule or a division table. One who has to calculate many intelligence quotients should by all
means use some kind of mechanical help.

HOW TO FIND THE I Q OF ADULT SUBJECTS. Native intelligence, in so far as it can be measured
by tests now available, appears to improve but little after the age of 15 or 16 years. It follows
that in calculating the I Q of an adult subject, it will be necessary to disregard the years
he has lived beyond the point where intelligence attains its final development.

Although the location of this point is not exactly known, it will be sufficiently accurate
for our purpose to assume its location at 16 years. Accordingly, any person over 16 years of
age, however old, is for purposes of calculating I Q considered to be just 16 years old. If
a youth of 18 and a man of 60 years both have a mental age of 12 years, the I Q in each case
is 12 ÷ 16, or .75.

The significance of various values of the I Q is set forth elsewhere.[44] Here it need only
be repeated that 100 I Q means exactly average intelligence; that nearly all who are below
70 or 75 I Q are feeble-minded; and that the child of 125 I Q is about as much above the average
as the high-grade feeble-minded individual is below the average. For ordinary purposes all
who fall between 95 and 105 I Q may be considered as average in intelligence.

[44] See Chapter VI.

MATERIAL FOR USE IN TESTING. It is strongly recommended that in testing by the Stanford revision
the regular Stanford record booklets be used. These are so arranged as to make testing accurate,
rapid, and convenient. They contain square, diamond, round field, vocabulary list, fables,
sentences, digits, and selections for memory tests, the reading selection barred for scoring,
the dissected sentences, arithmetical problems, etc. One is required for each child tested.[45]

[45] Houghton Mifflin Company will supply all the printed material needed in the tests, including
the lines for the forms for VI, 2, the four pictures for "enumeration," "description," and
"interpretation," the pictures for V, 3 and VI, 2, the colors, designs for X, 3, the code for
Average Adult 6, and score cards for square, diamond, designs, and ball-and-field.

This is all the material required for the use of the Stanford revision, except the five weights
for IX, 2, and V, 1, and the Healy-Fernald Construction Puzzle for X. These may be purchased
of C. H. Stoelting & Co., 3037 Carroll Avenue, Chicago. It is not necessary, however, to have
the weights and the Construction Puzzle, as the presence of one or more alternative tests in
each year makes it possible to substitute other tests instead of those requiring these materials.
This saves considerable expense. Apart from these, which may either be made at home (see pages
278, 279) or dispensed with, the only necessary equipment for using the Stanford revision is
a copy of this book with the accompanying set of printed matter, and the record booklets. The
record booklets are supplied only in packages of 25.

CHAPTER IX

Instructions For Year III

III, 1. POINTING TO PARTS OF THE BODY

PROCEDURE. After getting the child's attention, say: "Show me your nose." "Put your finger
on your nose." Same with eyes, mouth, and hair.

Tact is often necessary to overcome timidity. If two or three repetitions of the instruction
fail to bring a response, point to the child's chin or ear and say: "Is this your nose?" "No?"
"Then where is your nose?" Sometimes, after one has tried two or three parts of the test without
eliciting any response, the child may suddenly release his inhibitions and answer all the questions
promptly. In case of persistent refusal to respond it is best not to harass the child for an
answer, but to leave the test for a while and return to it later. This is a rule which applies
generally throughout the scale. In the case of one exceptionally timid little girl, it was
impossible to get any response by the usual procedure, but immediately when a doll was shown
the child pointed willingly to its nose, eyes, mouth, and hair. The device was successful because
it withdrew the child's attention from herself and centered it upon something objective.

SCORING. Three responses out of four must be correct. Instead of pointing, the child sometimes
responds by winking the eyes, opening the mouth, etc., which is counted as satisfactory.

REMARKS. Binet's purpose in this test is to ascertain whether the subject is capable of comprehending
simple language. The ability to comprehend and use language is indeed one of the most reliable
indications of the grade of mental development. The appreciation of gestures comes first, then
the comprehension of language heard, next the ability to repeat words and sentences mechanically,
and finally the ability to use language as a means of communication. The present test, however,
is not more strictly a test of language comprehension than the others of the 3-year group,
and in any case it could not be said to mark the beginning of the power to comprehend spoken
language. That is fairly well advanced by the age of 2 years. The test closely resembles III, 2
(naming familiar objects), and III, 3 (enumeration of objects in a picture), except that it
brings in a personal element and gives some clue to the development of the sense of self. All
the data agree in locating the test at year III.

III, 2. NAMING FAMILIAR OBJECTS

PROCEDURE. Use a key, a penny, a closed knife, a watch, and an ordinary lead pencil. The key
should be the usual large-sized doorkey, not one of the Yale type. The penny should not be
too new, for the freshly made, untarnished penny resembles very little the penny usually seen.
Any ordinary pocket knife may be used, and it is to be shown unopened. The formula is, "What
is this?" or, "Tell me what this is."

SCORING. There must be at least three correct responses out of five. A response is not correct
unless the object is named. It is not sufficient for the child merely to show that he knows
its use. A child, for example, may take the pencil and begin to mark with it, or go to the
door and insert the key in the lock, but this is not sufficient. At the same time we must not
be too arbitrary about requiring a particular name. "Cent" or "pennies" for "penny" is satisfactory,
but "money" is not. The watch is sometimes called "a clock" or "a tick-tock," and we shall
perhaps not be too liberal if we score these responses plus. "Pen" for "pencil," however, is
unsatisfactory. Substitute names for "key" and "knife" are rarely given. Mispronunciations
due to baby-talk are of course ignored.

REMARKS. The purpose of this test is to find out whether the child has made the association
between familiar objects and their names. The mental processes necessary to enable the child
to pass this test are very elementary, and yet, as far as they go, they are fundamental. Learning
the names of objects frequently seen is a form of mental activity in which the normally endowed
child of 2 to 4 years finds great satisfaction. Any marked retardation in making such associations
is a grave indication of the lack of that spontaneity which is so necessary for the development
of the higher grades of intelligence. It would be entirely beside the point, therefore, to
question the validity of the test on the ground that a given child may not have been taught
the names of the objects used. Practically all children 3 years old, however poor their environment,
have made the acquaintance of at least three of the five objects, and if intelligence is normal
they have learned their names as a result of spontaneous inquiry.

Always use the list of objects here given, because it has been standardized. Any improvised
selection would be sure to contain some objects either less or more familiar than those in
the standardized list. Note also that three correct responses out of five are sufficient. If
we required five correct answers out of six (like Kuhlmann), or three out of three (like Binet,
Goddard, and Huey), the test would probably belong at the 4-year level. Binet states that this
test is materially harder than that of naming objects in a picture, since in the latter the
child selects from a number of objects in the picture those he knows best, while in the former
test he must name the objects we have arbitrarily chosen. This difference does not hold, however,
if we require only three correct responses out of five for passing the test of naming objects,
instead of Binet's three out of three. All else being equal, it is of course easier to recognize
and name a real object shown than it is to recognize and name it from a picture.

III, 3. ENUMERATION OF OBJECTS IN PICTURES

PROCEDURE. Use the three pictures designated as "Dutch Home," "River Scene," and "Post-Office."
Say, "Now I am going to show you a pretty picture." Then, holding the first one before the
child, close enough to permit distinct vision, say: "Tell me what you see in this picture."
If there is no response, as sometimes happens, due to embarrassment or timidity, repeat the
request in this form: "Look at the picture and tell me everything you can see in it." If there
is still no response, say: "Show me the ..." (naming some object in the picture). Only one
question of this type, however, is permissible. If the child answers correctly, say: "That
is fine; now tell me everything you see in the picture." From this point the responses nearly
always follow without further coaxing. Indeed, if rapport has been properly cultivated before
the test begins, the first question will ordinarily be sufficient. If the child names one or
two things in a picture and then stops, urge him on by saying "And what else" Proceed with
pictures b and c in the same manner.

SCORING. The test is passed if the child enumerates as many as three objects in one picture
spontaneously; that is, without intervening questions or urging. Anything better than enumeration
(as description or interpretation) is also acceptable, but description is rarely encountered
before 5 years and interpretation rarely before 9 or 10.[46]

[46] See instructions for VII, 2, and XII, 7.

REMARKS. The purpose of the test in this year is to find out whether the sight of a familiar
object in a picture provokes recognition and calls up the appropriate name.[47] The average
child of 3 or 4 years is in what Binet calls "the identification stage"; that is, familiar
objects in a picture will be identified but not described, their relations to one another will
not be grasped.

[47] For a discussion of the significance of the different types of response, enumeration,
description, and interpretation, see VII, 2, and XII, 7.

In giving the test, always present the pictures in the same order, first Dutch Home, then River
Scene, then Post-Office. The order of presentation will no doubt seem to the uninitiated too
trivial a matter to insist upon, but a little experience teaches one that an apparently insignificant
change in the procedure may exert a considerable influence upon the response. Some pictures
tend more strongly than others to provoke a particular type of response. Some lend themselves
especially to enumeration, others to description, others to interpretation. The pictures used
in the Stanford revision have been selected from a number which have been tried because they
are more uniform in this respect than most others in use. However, they are not without their
differences, picture b, for example, tending more than the others to provoke description.

There seems to be no disagreement as to the proper location of this test.

III, 4. GIVING SEX

PROCEDURE. If the subject is a boy, the formula is: "Are you a little boy or a little girl?"
If a girl, "Are you a little girl or a little boy?" This variation in the formula is necessary
because of the tendency in young children to repeat mechanically the last word of anything
that is said to them. If there is no response, say: "Are you a little girl?" (if a boy); or,
"Are you a little boy?" (if a girl). If the answer to the last question is "no" (or a shake
of the head), we then say: "Well, what are you? Are you a little boy or a little girl?" (or
vice versa).

SCORING. The response is satisfactory if it indicates that the child has really made the discrimination,
but we must be cautious about accepting any other response than the direct answer, "A little
girl," or, "A little boy." "Yes" and "no" in response to the second question must be carefully
checked up.

REMARKS. Binet and Goddard say that 3-year-olds cannot pass this test and that 4-year-olds
almost never fail. We can accept the last part of this statement, but not the first part. Nearly
all of our 3-year-old subjects succeed with it.

The test probably has nothing to do with sex consciousness, as such. Success in it would seem
to depend on the ability to discriminate between familiar class names which are in a certain
degree related.

III, 5. GIVING THE FAMILY NAME

PROCEDURE. The child is asked, "What is your name?" If the answer, as often happens, includes
only the first name (Walter, for example), say: "Yes, but what is your other name? Walter what?"
If the child is silent, or if he only repeats the first name, say: "Is your name Walter ... ?"
(giving a fictitious name, as Jones, Smith, etc.). This question nearly always brings the correct
answer if it is known.

SCORING. Simply + or -. No attention is paid to faults of pronunciation.

REMARKS. There is unanimous agreement that this test belongs in the 3-year group. Although
the child has not had as much opportunity to learn the family name as his first name, he is
almost certain to have heard it more or less, and if his intelligence is normal the interest
in self will ordinarily cause it to be remembered.

The critic of the intelligence scale need not be unduly exercised over the fact that there
may be an occasional child of 3 years who has never heard his family name. We have all read
of such children, but they are so extremely rare that the chances of a given 3-year-old being
unjustly penalized for this reason are practically negligible. In the second place, contingencies
of this nature are throughout the scale consistently allowed for in the percentage of passes
required for locating a test. Since (in the year groups below XIV) the individual tests are
located at the age level where they are passed by 60 to 70 per cent of unselected children
of that age, it follows that the child of average ability is expected to fail on about one
third of the tests of his age group. The plan of the scale is such as to warrant this amount
of leeway. But even granting the possibility that one subject out of a hundred or so may be
unjustly penalized for lack of opportunity to acquire the knowledge which the test calls for,
the injustice done does not greatly alter the result. A single test affects mental age only
to the extent of two months, and the chances of two such injustices occurring with the same
child are very slight. Herein lies the advantage of a multiplicity of tests. No test considered
by itself is very dependable, but two dozen tests, properly arranged, are almost infinitely
reliable.

III, 6. REPEATING SIX TO SEVEN SYLLABLES

PROCEDURE. Begin by saying: "Can you say 'mamma'? Now, say 'nice kitty.'" Then ask the child
to say, "I have a little dog." Speak the sentence distinctly and with expression, but in a
natural voice and not too slowly. If there is no response, the first sentence may be repeated
two or three times. Then give the other two sentences: "The dog runs after the cat," and, "In
summer the sun is hot." A great deal of tact is sometimes necessary to enlist the child's coöperation
in this test. If he cannot be persuaded to try, the alternative test of three digits may be
substituted.

SCORING. The test is passed if at least one sentence is repeated without error after a single
reading. "Without error" is to be taken literally; there must be no omission, insertion, or
transposition of words. Ignore indistinctness of articulation and defects of pronunciation
as long as they do not mutilate the sentence beyond easy recognition.

REMARKS. The test does not presuppose that the child should have the ability to make and use
sentences like these for purposes of communication, or even that he should know the meaning
of all the words they contain. Its purpose is to bring out the ability of the child to repeat
a six-syllable series of more or less familiar language sounds. As every one knows, the normal
child of 2 or 3 years is constantly imitating the speech of those around him and finds this
a great source of delight. Long practice in the semi-mechanical repetition of language sounds
is necessary for the learning of speech coördinations and is therefore an indispensable preliminary
to the purposeful use of language. High-grade idiots and the lowest grade of imbeciles never
acquire much facility in the repetition of language heard. The test gets at one of the simplest
forms of mental integration.

Binet says that children of 3 years never repeat sentences of ten syllables. This is not strictly
true, for six out of nineteen 3-year-olds succeeded in doing so. All the data agree, however,
that the average child of 3 years repeats only six to seven syllables correctly.

III. ALTERNATIVE TEST: REPEATING THREE DIGITS

PROCEDURE. Use the following digits: 6-4-1, 3-5-2, 8-3-7. Begin with two digits, as follows:
"Listen; say 4-2." "Now, say 6-4-1." "Now, say 3-5-2," etc. Pronounce the digits in a distinct
voice and with perfectly uniform emphasis at a rate just a little faster than one per second.
Two per second, as recommended by Binet, is too rapid.

Young subjects, because of their natural timidity in the presence of strangers, sometimes refuse
to respond to this test. With subjects under 5 or 6 years of age it is sometimes necessary
in such cases to re-read the first series of digits several times in order to secure a response.
The response thus secured, however, is not counted in scoring, the purpose of the re-reading
being merely to break the child's silence. The second and third series may be read but once.
With the digits tests above year IV the re-reading of a series is never permissible.

SCORING. Passed if the child repeats correctly, after a single reading, one series out of the
three series given. Not only must the correct digits be given, but the order also must be correct.

REMARKS. Others, on the basis of rather scanty data, have usually located this test at the
4-year level. Our results show that with the procedure described above it is fully as easy
as the test of repeating sentences of 6 to 7 syllables.[48]

[48] See p. 194 ff. for further discussion of the digits test.

CHAPTER X

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR IV

IV, 1. COMPARISON OF LINES

PROCEDURE. Present the appropriate accompanying card with the lines in horizontal position.
Point to the lines and say: "See these lines. Look closely and tell me which one is longer.
Put your finger on the longest one." We use the superlative as well as the comparative form
of long because it is often more familiar to young subjects. If the child does not respond,
say: "Show me which line is the biggest." Then withdraw the card, turn it about a few times,
and present it again with the position of the two lines reversed, saying: "Now show me the
longest." Turn the card again and make a third presentation.

SCORING. All three comparisons must be made correctly; or if only two responses out of three
are correct, all three pairs are again shown, just as before, and if there is no error this
time, the test is passed. The standard, therefore, is three correct responses out of three,
or five out of six.

Sometimes the child points, but at no particular part of the card. In such cases it may be
difficult to decide whether he has failed to comprehend and to make the discrimination or has
only been careless in pointing. It is then necessary to repeat the experiment until the evidence
is clear.

REMARKS. As noted by Binet, success in this test depends on the comprehension of the verbal
directions rather than on actual discrimination of length. The child who would unerringly choose
the larger of two pieces of candy might fail on the comparison of lines. However, since the
child must correctly compare the lines three times in succession, or at least in five out of
six trials, willingness to attend also plays a part. The attention of the low-grade imbecile,
or even of the normal child of 3 years, is not very obedient to the suggestions of the experimenter.
It may be gained momentarily, but it is not easily held to the same task for more than a few
seconds. Hence some children who perfectly comprehend this task fail to make a succession of
correct comparisons because they are unable or unwilling to bring to bear even the small amount
of attention which is necessary. This does not in the least condone the failure, for it is
exactly in such voluntary control of mental processes that we find one of the most characteristic
differences between bright and dull, or mature and immature subjects.

There has been little disagreement as to the proper location of this test.

IV, 2. DISCRIMINATION OF FORMS

PROCEDURE. Use the forms supplied with this book. First, place the circle of the duplicate
set at "X", and say: "Show me one like this," at the same time passing the finger around the
circumference of the circle. If the child does not respond, say: "Do you see all of these things?"
(running the finger over the various forms); "And do you see this one?" (pointing again to
the circle); "Now, find me another one just like this." Use the square next, then the triangle,
and the others in any order.

Correct the child's first error by saying: "No, find one just like this" (again passing the
finger around the outline of the form at "X"). Make no comment on errors after the first one,
proceeding at once with the next card, but each time the choice is correct encourage the child
with a hearty "That's good," or something similar.

SCORING. The test is passed if seven out of ten choices, are correct, the first corrected error
being counted.

REMARKS. In the test of discriminating forms, unlike the test of comparing lines, lack of success
is less often due to inability to understand the task than to failure to discriminate. The
test may be regarded as a variation of the form-board test. It displays the subject's ability
to compare and contrast successive visual perceptions of form. The accurate perception of even
a fairly simple form requires the integration of a number of sensory elements into one whole.
The forms used in this test have meaning. They are far from nonsense figures even for the (normal)
child of 4 years, who has, of course, never heard about "triangles," "squares," "rectangles,"
etc. The meaning present at this level of intelligence is probably a compound of such factors
as appreciation of symmetry and direction, and discrimination of quantity and number.

Another element in success, especially in the latter part of the experiment, is the ability
to make an attentive comparison between the form shown and the others. The child may be satisfied
to point to the first form his eye happens to fall upon. Far from being a legitimate excuse
for failure, such an exhibition of inattention and of weakness of the critical faculty is symptomatic
of a mental level below 4 years.

In addition to counting the number of errors made, it is interesting to note with what forms
they occur. To match the circle with the ellipse or the octagon, for example, is a less serious
error than to match it with the square or triangle.

This test was devised and standardized by Dr. Fred Kuhlmann. It is inserted here without essential
alteration, except that the size recommended for the forms is slightly reduced and minor changes
have been made in the wording of the directions. Our own results are favorable to the test
and to the location assigned it by its author.

IV, 3. COUNTING FOUR PENNIES

PROCEDURE. Place four pennies in a horizontal row before the child. Say: "See these pennies.
Count them and tell me how many there are. Count them with your finger, this way" (pointing
to the first one on the child's left)--"One"--"Now, go ahead." If the child simply gives the
number (whether right or wrong) without pointing, say: "No; count them with your finger, this
way," starting him off as before. Have him count them aloud.

SCORING. The test is passed only if the counting tallies with the pointing. It is not sufficient
merely to state the correct number without pointing.

REMARKS. Contrary to what one might think, this is not to any great extent a test of "schooling."
Practically all children of this age have had opportunity to learn to count as far as four,
and with normal children the spontaneous interest in number is such that very few 4-year-olds,
even from inferior social environment, fail to pass the test.

While success requires more than the ability to repeat the number names by rote, it does not
presuppose any power of calculation or a mastery of the number concepts from one to four. Many
children who will readily say, mechanically, "one, two, three, four," when started off, are
not able to pass the test. On the other hand, it is not expected that the child who passes
will also necessarily understand that four is made up of two two's, or four one's, or three
plus one, etc.

Binet, Goddard, and Kuhlmann place this test in the 5-year group, but three separate series
of tests made for the Stanford revision, as well as nearly all the statistics available from
other sources, show that it belongs at 4 years.

IV, 4. COPYING A SQUARE

PROCEDURE. Place before the child a cardboard on which is drawn in heavy black lines a square
about 1¼ inches on a side.[49] Give the child a pencil and say: "You see that (pointing to
the square). I want you to make one just like it. Make it right here (showing where it is to
be drawn). Go ahead. I know you can do it nicely."

[49] No material is needed if the regular Stanford record blanks are used, as these all contain
the square and diamond.

Avoid such an expression as, "I want you to draw a figure like that." The child may not know
the meaning of either draw or figure. Also, in pointing to the model, take care not to run
the finger around the four sides.

Children sometimes have a deep-seated aversion to drawing on request and a bit of tactful urging
may be necessary. Experience and tact will enable the experimenter in all but the rarest cases
to come out victorious in these little battles with balky wills. Give three trials, saying
each time: "Make it exactly like this," pointing to model. Make sure that the child is in an
easy position and that the paper used is held so it cannot slip.

SCORING. The test is passed if at least one drawing out of the three is as good as those marked
+ on the score card. Young subjects usually reduce figures in drawing from copy, but size is
wholly disregarded in scoring. It is of more importance that the right angles be fairly well
preserved than that the lines should be straight or the corners entirely closed. The scoring
of this test should be rather liberal.

REMARKS. After the three copies have been made say: "Which one do you like best?" In this way
we get an idea of the subject's power of auto-criticism, a trait in which the mentally retarded
are nearly always behind normal children of their own age. Normal children, when young, reveal
the same weakness to a certain extent. It is especially significant when the subject shows
complete satisfaction with a very poor performance.

Observe whether the child makes each part with careful effort, looking at the model from time
to time, or whether the strokes are made in a haphazard way with only an initial glance at
the original. The latter procedure is quite common with young or retarded subjects. Curiously
enough, the first trial is more successful than either of the others, due perhaps to a waning
of effort and attention.

Note that pencil is used instead of pen and that only one success is necessary. Binet gives
only one trial and requires pen. Goddard allows pencil, but permits only one trial. Kuhlmann
requires pen and passes the child only when two trials out of three are successful. But these
authors locate the test at 5 years. Our results show that nearly three fourths of 4-year-olds
succeed with pencil in one out of three trials if the scoring is liberal. It makes a great
deal of difference whether pen or pencil is used, and whether two successes are required or
only one. No better illustration could be given of the fact that without thoroughgoing standardization
of procedure and scoring the best mental test may be misleading as to the degree of intelligence
it indicates.

Copying a square is one of three drawing tests used in the Binet scale, the others being the
diamond (year VII), and the designs to be copied from memory (year X). These tests do not to
any great extent test what is usually known as "drawing ability." Only the square and the diamond
tests are strictly comparable with one another, the other having a psychologically different
purpose. In none of them does success seem to depend very much on the amount of previous instruction
in drawing. To copy a figure like a square or a diamond requires first of all an appreciation
of spacial relationships. The figure must be perceived as a whole, not simply as a group of
meaningless lines. In the second place, success depends upon the ability to use the visual
impression in guiding a rather complex set of motor coördinations. The latter is perhaps the
main difficulty, and is one which is not fully overcome, at least for complicated movements,
until well toward adult life.

It is interesting to compare the square and the diamond as to relative difficulty. They have
the same number of lines and in each case the opposite sides are parallel; but whereas 4-year
intelligence is equal to the task of copying a square, the diamond ordinarily requires 7-year
intelligence. Probably no one could have foreseen that a change in the angles would add so
much to the difficulty of the figure. It would be worth while to devise and standardize still
more complicated figures.

IV, 5. COMPREHENSION, FIRST DEGREE

PROCEDURE. After getting the child's attention, say: "What must you do when you are sleepy?"
If necessary the question may be repeated a number of times, using a persuasive and encouraging
tone of voice. No other form of question may be substituted. About twenty seconds may be allowed
for an answer, though as a rule subjects of 4 or 5 years usually answer quite promptly or not
at all.

Proceed in the same way with the other two questions: "What ought you to do when you are cold?"
"What ought you to do when you are hungry?"

SCORING. There must be two correct responses out of three. No one form of answer is required.
It is sufficient if the question is comprehended and given a reasonably sensible answer. The
following are samples of correct responses:--

  (a) "Go to bed." "Go to sleep." "Have my mother get me ready for
      bed." "Lie still, not talk, and I'll soon be asleep."
  (b) "Put on a coat" (or "cloak," "furs," "wrap up," etc.).
      "Build a fire." "Run and I'll soon get warm." "Get close to
      the stove." "Go into the house," or, "Go to bed," may possibly
      deserve the score plus, though they are somewhat doubtful
      and are certainly inferior to the responses just given.
  (c) "Eat something." "Drink some milk." "Buy a lunch." "Have my
      mamma spread some bread and butter," etc.

With the comprehension questions in this year it is nearly always easy to decide whether the
response is acceptable, failure being indicated usually either by silence or by an absurd or
irrelevant answer. One 8-year-old boy who had less than 4-year intelligence answered all three
questions by putting his finger on his eye and saying: "I'd do that." "Have to cry" is a rather
common incorrect response.

REMARKS. The purpose of these questions is to ascertain whether the child can comprehend the
situations suggested and give a reasonably pertinent reply. The first requirement, of course,
is to understand the language; the second is to tell how the situation suggested should be met.

The question may be raised whether a given child might not fail to answer the questions correctly
and yet have the intelligence to do the appropriate thing if the real situation were present.
This is at least conceivable, but since it would not be practicable to make the subject actually
cold, sleepy, or hungry in order to observe his behavior, we must content ourselves with suggesting
a situation to be imagined. It probably requires more intelligence to tell what one ought to
do in a situation which has to be imagined than to do the right thing when the real situation
is encountered.

The comprehension questions of this year had not been standardized until the Stanford investigation
of 1913-14. Questions a and b were suggested by Binet in 1905, while c is new. They make an
excellent test of 4-year intelligence.

IV, 6. REPEATING FOUR DIGITS

PROCEDURE. Say: "Now, listen. I am going to say over some numbers and after I am through, I
want you to say them exactly like I do. Listen closely and get them just right--4-7-3-9." Same
with 2-8-5-4 and 7-2-6-1. The examiner should consume nearly four seconds in pronouncing each
series, and should practice in advance until this speed can be closely approximated. If the
child refuses to respond, the first series may be repeated as often as may be necessary to
prove an attempt, but success with a series which has been re-read may not be counted. The
second and third series may be pronounced but once. The order must be correct.

REMARKS. The test of repeating four digits was not included by Binet in the scale and seems
not to have been used by any of the Binet workers. It is passed by about three fourths of our
4-year-olds.

IV. ALTERNATIVE TEST: REPEATING TWELVE TO THIRTEEN SYLLABLES

The three sentences are:--

  (a) "The boy's name is John. He is a very good boy."
  (b) "When the train passes you will hear the whistle blow."
  (c) "We are going to have a good time in the country."

PROCEDURE. Get the child's attention and say: "Listen, say this: 'Where is kitty?'" After the
child responds, add: "Now say this ...," reading the first sentence in a natural voice, distinctly
and with expression. If the child is too timid to respond, the first sentence may be re-read,
but in this case the response is not counted. Re-reading is permissible only with the first
sentence. As in the alternative test of year III, we ignore ordinary indistinctness and defects
of pronunciation due to imperfect language development, but the sentence must be repeated without
addition, omission, or transposition of words.

REMARKS. Sentences of twelve syllables had not been standardized previous to the Stanford revision,
but Binet locates memory for ten syllables at year V, and others have followed his example.
Our own data show that even 4-year-olds are usually able to repeat twelve syllables with the
procedure here set forth.

CHAPTER XI

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR V

V, 1. COMPARISON OF WEIGHTS

MATERIALS. It is necessary to have two weights, identical in shape, size, and appearance, weighing
respectively 3 and 15 grams.[50] If manufactured weights are not at hand, it is easy to make
satisfactory substitutes by taking stiff cardboard pill-boxes, about 1¼ inches in diameter,
and filling them with cotton and shot to the desired weight. The shot must be embedded in the
center of the cotton so as to prevent rattling. After the box has been loaded to the exact
weight, the lid should be glued on firmly. If one does not have access to laboratory scales,
it is always possible to secure the help of a druggist in the rather delicate task of weighing
the boxes accurately. A set of pill-box weights will last through hundreds of tests, if handled
carefully, but they will not stand rough usage. The manufactured blocks are more durable, and
so more satisfactory in the long run. If the weights are not at hand, the alternative test
may be substituted.

[50] The weights required for this test, and also for IX, 2, may be purchased of C. H. Stoelting
& Co., 3037 Carroll Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

PROCEDURE. Place the 3- and 15-gram weights on the table before the child some two or three
inches apart. Say: "You see these blocks. They look just alike, but one of them is heavy and
one is light. Try them and tell me which one is heavier." If the child does not respond, repeat
the instructions, saying this time, "Tell me which one is the heaviest." (Many American children
have heard only the superlative form of the adjective used in the comparison of two objects.)

Sometimes the child merely points to one of the boxes or picks up one at random and hands it
to the examiner, thinking he is asked to guess which is heaviest. We then say: "No, that is
not the way. You must take the boxes in your hands and try them, like this" (illustrating by
lifting with one hand, first one box and then the other, a few inches from the table). Most
children of 5 years are then able to make the comparison correctly. Very young subjects, however,
or older ones who are retarded, sometimes adopt the rather questionable method of lifting both
weights in the same hand at once. This is always an unfavorable sign, especially if one of
the blocks is placed in the hand on top of the other block.

After the first trial, the weights are shuffled and again presented for comparison as before,
this time with the positions reversed. The third trial follows with the blocks in the same
position as in the first trial. Some children have a tendency to stereotyped behavior, which
in this test shows itself by choosing always the block on a certain side. Hence the necessity
of alternating the positions.[51] Reserve commendation until all three trials have been given.

[51] For discussion of "stereotypy" see p. 203.

SCORING. The test is passed if two of the three comparisons are correct. If there is reason
to suspect that the successful responses were due to lucky guesses, the test should be entirely
repeated.

REMARKS. This test is decidedly more difficult than that of comparing lines (IV, 1). It is
doubtful, however, if we can regard the difference as one due primarily to the relative difficulty
of visual discrimination and muscular discrimination. In fact, the test with weights hardly
taxes sensory discrimination at all when used with children of 5-year intelligence. Success
depends, in the first place, on the ability to understand the instructions; and in the second
place, on the power to hold the instructions in mind long enough to guide the process of making
the comparison. The test presupposes, in elementary form, a power which is operative in all
the higher independent processes of thought, the power to neglect the manifold distractions
of irrelevant sensations and ideas and to drive direct toward a goal. Here the goal is furnished
by the instruction, "Try them and see which is heavier." This must be held firmly enough in
mind to control the steps necessary for making the comparison. Ideas of piling the blocks on
top of one another, throwing them, etc., must be inhibited. Sometimes the low-grade imbecile
starts off in a very promising way, then apparently forgets the instructions (loses sight of
the goal), and begins to play with the boxes in a random way. His mental processes are not
consecutive, stable, or controlled. He is blown about at the mercy of every gust of momentary
interest.

There is very general agreement in the assignment of this test to year V.

V, 2. NAMING COLORS

MATERIALS. Use saturated red, yellow, blue, and green papers, about 2 × 1 inch in size, pasted
one half inch apart on white or gray cardboard. For sake of uniformity it is best to match
the colors manufactured especially for this test.[52]

[52] Printed cards showing these colors are included in the set of material furnished by the
publishers of this book.

PROCEDURE. Point to the colors in the order, red, yellow, blue, green. Bring the finger close
to the color designated, in order that there may be no mistake as to which one is meant, and
say: "What is the name of that color?" Do not say: "What color is that?" or, "What kind of
a color is that?" Such a formula might bring the answer, "The first color"; or, "A pretty color."
Still less would it do to say: "Show me the red," "Show me the yellow," etc. This would make
it an entirely different test, one that would probably be passed a year earlier than the Binet
form of the experiment. Nor is it permissible, after a color has been miscalled, to return
to it and again ask its name.

SCORING. The test is passed only if all the colors are named correctly and without marked uncertainty.
However, prefixing the adjective "dark," or "light," before the name of a color is overlooked.

REMARKS. Naming colors is not a test of color discrimination, for that capacity is well developed
years below the level at which this test is used. All 5-year-olds who are not color blind discriminate
among the four primary colors here used as readily as adults do. As stated by Binet, it is
a test of the "verbalization of color perception." It tells us whether the child has associated
the names of the four primary colors with his perceptual imagery of those colors.

The ability to make simple associations between a sense impression and a name is certainly
present in normal children some time before the above color associations are actually made.
Many objects of experience are correctly named two or three years earlier, and it may seem
at first a little strange that color names are learned so late. But it must be remembered that
the child does not have numerous opportunities to observe and hear the names of several colors
at once, nor does the designation of colors by their names ordinarily have much practical value
for the young child. When he finally learns their names, it is more because of his spontaneous
interest in the world of sense. Lack of such spontaneous interest is always an unfavorable
sign, and it is not surprising, therefore, that imbecile intelligence has ordinarily never
taken the trouble to associate colors with their names. Girls are somewhat superior to boys
in this test, due probably to a greater natural interest in colors.

Binet originally placed this test in year VIII, changing it to year VII in the 1911 scale.
Goddard places it in year VII, while Kuhlmann omits it altogether. With a single exception,
all the actual statistics with normal children justify the location of the test in year V.
Bobertag's figures are the exception, opposed to which are Rowe, Winch, Dumville, Dougherty,
Brigham, and all three of the Stanford investigations.

The test is probably more subject to the influence of home environment than most of the other
tests of the scale, and if the social status of the child is low, failure would not be especially
significant until after the age of 6 years. On the whole it is an excellent test.

V, 3. ÆSTHETIC COMPARISON

Use the three pairs of faces supplied with the printed forms. It goes without saying that improvised
drawings may not be substituted for Binet's until they have first been standardized.

PROCEDURE. Show the pairs in order from top to bottom. Say: "Which of these two pictures is
the prettiest?" Use both the comparative and the superlative forms of the adjective. Do not
use the question, "Which face is the uglier (ugliest)?" unless there is some difficulty in
getting the child to respond. It is not permitted, in case of an incorrect response, to give
that part of the test again and to allow the child a chance to correct his answer; or, in case
this is done, we must consider only the original response in scoring.

SCORING. The test is passed only if all three comparisons are made correctly. Any marked uncertainty
is failure. Sometimes the child laughingly designates the ugly picture as the prettier, yet
shows by his amused expression that he is probably conscious of its peculiarity or absurdity.
In such cases "pretty" seems to be given the meaning of "funny" or "amusing." Nevertheless,
we score this response as failure, since it betokens a rather infantile tolerance of ugliness.

REMARKS. From the psychological point of view this is a most interesting test. One might suppose
that æsthetic judgment would be relatively independent of intelligence. Certainly no one could
have known in advance of experience that intellectual retardation would reveal itself in weakness
of the æsthetic sense about as unmistakably as in memory, practical judgment, or the comprehension
of language. But such is the case. The development of the æsthetic sense parallels general
mental growth rather closely. The imbecile of 4-year intelligence, even though he may have
lived forty years, has no more chance of passing this test than any other test in year V. It
would be profitable to devise and standardize a set of pictures of the same general type which
would measure a less primitive stage of æsthetic development.

The present test was located by Binet in year VI and has been retained in that year in other
revisions; but three separate Stanford investigations, as well as the statistics of Winch,
Dumville, Brigham, Rowe, and Dougherty, warrant its location in year V.

V, 4. GIVING DEFINITIONS IN TERMS OF USE

PROCEDURE. Use the words: Chair, horse, fork, doll, pencil, and table. Say: "You have seen
a chair. You know what a chair is. Tell me, what is a chair?" And so on with the other words,
always in the order in which they are named above.

Occasionally there is difficulty in getting a response, which is sometimes due merely to the
child's unwillingness to express his thoughts in sentences. The earlier tests require only
words and phrases. In other cases silence is due to the rather indefinite form of the question.
The child could answer, but is not quite sure what is expected of him. Whatever the cause,
a little tactful urging is nearly always sufficient to bring a response. In this test we have
not found the difficulty of overcoming silence nearly as great as others have stated it to
be. In consecutive tests of 150 5- and 6-year-old children we encountered unbreakable silence
with 8 words out of the total 900 (150 × 6). This is less than 1 per cent. But tactful encouragement
is sometimes necessary, and it is best to take the precaution of not giving the test until
rapport has been well established.

The urging should take the following form: "I'm sure you know what a ... is. You have seen
a .... Now, tell me, what is a ... ?" That is, we merely repeat the question with a word of
encouragement and in a coaxing tone of voice. It would not at all do to introduce other questions,
like, "What does a ... look like?" or, "What is a ... for?" "What do people do with a ... ?"

Sometimes, instead of attempting a definition (of doll, for example), the child begins to talk
in a more or less irrelevant way, as "I have a great big doll. Auntie gave it to me for Christmas,"
etc. In such cases we repeat the question and say, "Yes, but tell me; what is a doll?" This
is usually sufficient to bring the little chatter-box back to the task.

Unless it is absolutely necessary to give the child lavish encouragement, it is best to withhold
approval or disapproval until the test has been finished. If the first response is a poor one
and we pronounce it "fine" or "very good," we tempt the child to persist in his low-grade type
of definition. By withholding comment until the last word has been defined, we give greater
play to spontaneity and initiative.

SCORING. As a rule, children of 5 and 6 years define an object in terms of use, stating what
it does, what it is for, what people do with it, etc. Definitions by description, by telling
what substance it is made of, and by giving the class to which it belongs are grouped together
as "definitions superior to use." It is not before 8 years that two thirds of the children
spontaneously give a large proportion of definitions in terms superior to use.

The test is passed in year V if four words out of the six are defined in terms of use (or better
than use). The following are examples of satisfactory responses:--

    Chair: "To sit on." "You sit on it." "It is made of wood and
    has legs and back," etc.

    Horse: "To drive." "To ride." "What people drive." "To pull
    the wagon." "It is big and has four legs," etc.

    Fork: "To eat with." "To stick meat with." "It is hard and has
    three sharp things," etc.

    Doll: "To play with." "What you dress and put to bed." "To
    rock," etc.

    Pencil: "To write with." "To draw." "They write with it." "It
    is sharp and makes a black mark."

    Table: "To eat on." "What you put the dinner on." "Where you
    write." "It is made of wood and has legs."

Examples of failure are such responses as the following: "A chair is a chair"; "There is a
chair"; or simply, "There" (pointing to a chair). We record such responses without pressing
for a further definition. About the only other type of failure is silence.

REMARKS. It is not the purpose of this test to find out whether the child knows the meaning
of the words he is asked to define. Words have purposely been chosen which are perfectly familiar
to all normal children of 5 years. But with young children there is a difference between knowing
a word and giving a definition of it. Besides, we desire to find out how the child apperceives
the word, or rather the object for which it stands; whether the thing is thought of in terms
of use, appearance (shape, size, color, etc.), material composing it, or class relationships.

This test, because it throws such interesting light on the maturity of the child's apperceptive
processes, is one of the most valuable of all. It is possible to differentiate at least a half-dozen
degrees of excellence in definitions, according to the intellectual maturity of the subject.
A volume, indeed, could be written on the development of word definitions and the growth of
meanings; but we will postpone further discussion until VIII, 5. Our concern at present is
to know that children of 5 years should at least be able to define four of these six words
in terms of use.

Binet placed the test in year VI, but our own figures and those of nearly all the other investigations
indicate that it is better located in year V.

V, 5. THE GAME OF PATIENCE

MATERIAL. Prepare two rectangular cards, each 2 × 3 inches, and divide one of them into two
triangles by cutting it along one of its diagonals.

PROCEDURE. Place the uncut card on the table with one of its longer sides to the child. By
the side of this card, a little nearer the child and a few inches apart, lay the two halves
of the divided rectangle with their hypothenuses turned from each other as follows:

Then say to the child: "I want you to take these two pieces (touching the two triangles) and
put them together so they will look exactly like this" (pointing to the uncut card). If the
child hesitates, we repeat the instructions with a little urging. Say nothing about hurrying,
as this is likely to cause confusion. Give three trials, of one minute each. If only one trial
is given, success is too often a result of chance moves; but luck is not likely to bring two
successes in three trials. If the first trial is a failure, move the cut halves back to their
original position and say: "No; put them together so they will look like this" (pointing to
the uncut card). Make no other comment of approval or disapproval. Disregard in silence the
inquiring looks of the child who tries to read his success or failure in your face.

If one of the pieces is turned over, the task becomes impossible, and it is then necessary
to turn the piece back to its original position and begin over, not counting this trial. Have
the under side of the pieces marked so as to avoid the risk of presenting one of them to the
child wrong side up.

SCORING. There must be two successes in three trials. About the only difficulty in scoring
is that of deciding what constitutes a trial. We count it a trial when the child brings the
pieces together and (after few or many changes) leaves them in some position. Whether he succeeds
after many moves, or leaves the pieces with approval in some absurd position, or gives up and
says he cannot do it, his effort counts as one trial. A single trial may involve a number of
unsuccessful changes of position in the two cards, but these changes may not consume altogether
more than one minute.

REMARKS. It is necessary to comprehend this end and not to lose sight of it. (2) To try different
combinations under the influence of this directing idea, which guides the efforts of the child
even though he be unconscious of the fact. (3) To judge the formed combination, compare it
with the model, and decide whether it is the correct one."

It may be classed, therefore, as one of the many forms of the "combination method." Elements
must be combined into some kind of whole under the guidance of a directing idea. In this respect
it has something in common with the form-board test, the Ebbinghaus test, and the test with
dissected sentences (XII, 4). Binet designates it a "test of patience," because success in
it depends upon a certain willingness to persist in a line of action under the control of an idea.

Not all failures in this test are equally significant. A bright child of 5 years sometimes
fails, but usually not without many trial combinations which he rejects one after another as
unsatisfactory. A dull child of the same age often stops after he has brought the pieces into
any sort of juxtaposition, however absurd, and may be quite satisfied with his foolish effort.
His mind is not fruitful and he lacks the power of auto-criticism.

It would be well worth while to work out a new and somewhat more difficult "test of patience,"
but with special care to avoid the puzzling features of the usual games of anagrams. The one
given us by Binet is rather easy for year V, though plainly somewhat too difficult for year IV.

V, 6. THREE COMMISSIONS

PROCEDURE. After getting up from the chair and moving with the child to the center of the room,
say: "Now, I want you to do something for me. Here's a key. I want you to put it on that chair
over there; then I want you to shut (or open) that door, and then bring me the box which you
see over there (pointing in turn to the objects designated). Do you understand? Be sure to
get it right. First, put the key on the chair, then shut (open) the door, then bring me the
box (again pointing). Go ahead." Stress the words first and then so as to emphasize the order
in which the commissions are to be executed.

Give the commissions always in the above order. Do not repeat the instructions again or give
any further aid whatever, even by the direction of the gaze. If the child stops or hesitates
it is never permissible to say: "What next?" Have the self-control to leave the child alone
with his task.

SCORING. All three commissions must be executed and in the proper order. Failure may result,
therefore, either from leaving out one or more of the commands or from changing the order.
The former is more often the case.

REMARKS. Success depends first on the ability to comprehend the commands, and secondly, on
the ability to hold them in mind. It is therefore a test of memory, though of a somewhat different
kind from that involved in repeating digits or sentences. It is an excellent test, for it throws
light on a kind of intelligence which is demanded in all occupations and in everyday life.
A more difficult test of the same type ought to be worked out for a higher age level.

Binet originally located this test in year VI, but in 1911 changed it to year VII. This is
unfortunate, for the three Stanford investigations, as well as the statistics of all other
investigators, show conclusively that it is easy enough for year V.

V. ALTERNATIVE TEST: GIVING AGE

PROCEDURE. The formula is simply, "How old are you?" The child of this age is, of course, not
expected to know the date of his birthday, but merely how many years old he is.

SCORING. About the only danger in scoring is in the failure to verify the child's response.
Some children give an incorrect answer with perfect assurance, and it is therefore always necessary
to verify.

REMARKS. Inability to give the age may or may not be significant. If the child has arrived
at the age of 7 or 8 years and has had anything like a normal social environment, failure in
the test is an extremely unfavorable sign. But if the child is an orphan or has grown up in
neglect, ignorance of age has little significance for intelligence. About all we can say is
that if a child gives his age correctly, it is because he has had sufficient interest and intelligence
to remember verbal statements which have been made concerning him in his presence. He may even
pass the test without attaching any definite meaning to the word "year." On the other hand,
if he has lived seven or eight years in a normal environment, it is safe to assume that he
has heard his age given many times, and failure to remember it would then indicate either a
weak memory or a grave inferiority of spontaneous interests, or both. Normal children have
a natural interest in the things they hear said about themselves, while the middle-grade imbecile
of even 40 years may fail to remember his age, however often he may have heard it stated.

Binet placed the test in year VI of the 1908 series, but omitted it altogether in 1911. Kuhlmann
and Goddard also omit it, perhaps wisely. Nevertheless, it is always interesting to give as
a supplementary test. Children from good homes acquire the knowledge about a year earlier than
those from less favorable surroundings. Unselected children of California ordinarily pass the
test at 5 years.

CHAPTER XII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR VI

VI, 1. DISTINGUISHING RIGHT AND LEFT

PROCEDURE. Say to the child: "Show me your right hand." After this is responded to, say: "Show
me your left ear." Then: "Show me your right eye." Stress the words left and ear rather strongly
and equally; also right and eye. If there is one error, repeat the test, this time with left
hand, right ear, and left eye. Carefully avoid giving any help by look of approval or disapproval,
by glancing at the part of the body indicated, or by supplementary questions.

SCORING. The test is passed if all three questions are answered correctly, or if, in case of
one error, the three additional questions are all answered correctly. The standard, therefore,
is three out of three, or five out of six.

The chief danger of variation among different examiners in scoring comes from double responses.
For example, the child may point first to one ear and then to the other. In all cases of double
response, the rule is to count the second response and disregard the first. This holds whether
the first response was wrong and the second right, or vice versa.

REMARKS. It is interesting to follow the child's acquisitions of language distinctions relating
to spacial orientation. Other distinctions of this type are those between up and down, above
and below, near and far, before and behind, etc. As Bobertag has pointed out, the child first
masters such distinctions as up and down, above and below, before and behind, etc., and arrives
at a knowledge of right and left rather tardily.

How may we explain the late distinction of right and left as compared with up and down? At
least four theories may be advanced: (1) Something depends on the frequency with which children
have occasion to make the respective distinctions. (2) It may be explained on the supposition
that kinæsthetic sensations are more prominently involved in distinctions of up and down than
in distinctions of right and left. It is certainly true that, in distinguishing the two sides
of a thing, less bodily movement is ordinarily required than in distinctions of its upper and
lower aspects. The former demands only a shift of the eyes, the latter often requires an upward
or downward movement of the head. (3) It may be due to the fact that the appearance of an object
is more affected by differences in vertical orientation than by those of horizontal orientation.
We see an object now from one side, now from the other, and the two aspects easily blend, while
the two aspects corresponding to above and below are not viewed in such rapid succession and
so remain much more distinct from one another in the child's mind. Or, (4), the difference
may be mainly a matter of language. The child undoubtedly hears the words up and down much
oftener than right and left, and thus learns their meaning earlier. Horizontal distinctions
are commonly made in such terms as this side and that side, or merely by pointing, while in
the case of vertical distinctions the words up and down are used constantly. This last explanation
is a very plausible one, but it is very probable that other factors are also involved.

The distinction between right and left has a certain inherent and more or less mysterious difficulty.
To convince one's self of this it is only necessary to try a little experiment on the first
fifty persons one chances to meet. The experiment is as follows. Say: "I am going to ask you
a question and I want you to answer it as quickly as you can." Then ask: "Which is your right
hand?" About forty persons out of fifty will answer correctly without a second's hesitation,
several will require two or three seconds to respond, while a few, possibly four or five per cent,
will grow confused and perhaps be unable to respond for five or ten seconds. Some very intelligent
adults cannot possibly tell which is the right or left hand without first searching for a scar
or some other distinguishing mark which is known to be on a particular hand. Others resort
to incipient movements of writing, and since, of course, every one knows which hand he writes
with, the writing movements automatically initiated give the desired clue. One bright little
girl of 8 years responded by trying to wink first one eye and then the other. Asked why she
did this, she said she knew she could wink her left eye, but not her right! One who is resourceful
enough to adopt such an ingenious method is surely not less intelligent than the one who is
able to respond by a direct instead of an intermediate association.

It seems that normal people never encounter a corresponding difficulty in distinguishing up
and down. The writer has questioned several hundred without finding a single instance, whereas
a great many have to employ some intermediate association in order to distinguish right and
left. It is the "p's and q's" that children must be told to mind; not the "p's and b's." The
former is a horizontal, the latter a vertical distinction.

Considering the difficulty which normal adults sometimes have in distinguishing right and left,
is it fair to use this test as a measure of intelligence? We may answer in the affirmative.
It is fair because normal adults, notwithstanding momentary uncertainty, are invariably able
to make the distinction, if not by direct association, then by an intermediate one. We overlook
the momentary confusion and regard only the correctness of the response. Subjects who are below
middle-grade imbecile, however long they have lived, seldom pass the test.

This test found a place in year VI of Binet's 1908 scale, but was shifted to year VII in the
1911 revision. The Stanford statistics, and all other available data, with the exception of
Bobertag's, justify its retention in year VI. It is possible that the children of different
nations do not have equal opportunity and stimulus for learning the distinction between right
and left, but the data show that as far as American and English children are concerned we have
a right to expect this knowledge in children of 6 years.

VI, 2. FINDING OMISSIONS IN PICTURES

PROCEDURE. Show the pictures to the child one at a time in the order in which they are lettered,
a, b, c, d. When the first picture is shown (that with the eye lacking), say: "There is something
wrong with this face. It is not all there. Part of it is left out. Look carefully and tell
me what part of the face is not there." Often the child gives an irrelevant answer; as, "The
feet are gone," "The stomach is not there," etc. These statements are true, but they do not
satisfy the requirements of the test, so we say: "No; I am talking about the face. Look again
and tell me what is left out of the face." If the correct response does not follow, we point
to the place where the eye should be and say: "See, the eye is gone." When picture b is shown
we say merely: "What is left out of this face?" Likewise with picture c. For picture d we say:
"What is left out of this picture?" No help of any kind is given unless (if necessary) with
the first picture. With the others we confine ourselves to the single question, and the answer
should be given promptly, say within twenty to twenty-five seconds.

SCORING. Passed if the omission is correctly pointed out in three out of four of the pictures.
Certain minor errors we may overlook, such as "eyes" instead of "eye" for the first picture;
"nose and one ear" instead of merely "nose" for the third; "hands" instead of "arms" for the
fourth, etc. Errors like the following, however, count as failure: "The other eye," or "The
other ear" for the first or third; "The ears" for the fourth, etc.

REMARKS. The test is one of the two or three dozen forms of the so-called "completion test,"
all of which have it in common that from the given parts of a whole the missing parts are to
be found. The whole to be completed may be a word, a sentence, a story, a picture, a group
of pictures, an object, or in fact almost anything. Sometimes all the parts of the whole are
given and only the arrangement or order is to be found, as in the test with dissected sentences.

Further discussion of the completion test will be found in connection with test 4, year XII.
For the present we will only observe that notwithstanding a certain similarity among the tests
of this type, they do not all call into play the same mental processes. The factor most involved
may be verbal language coherence, visual perception of form, the association of abstract ideas,
etc. To pass Binet's test with mutilated pictures requires, (1) that the parts of the picture
be perceived as constituting a whole; and (2) that the idea of a human face or form be so easily
and so clearly reproducible that it may act, even before it comes fully into consciousness,
as a model or pattern, for the criticism of the picture shown. The younger the child, the less
adequate, in this sense, is his perceptual familiarity with common objects. In standardizing
a series of "absurd pictures," the writer has found that normal children of 3 years often see
nothing wrong in a picture which shows a cat with two legs or a hen with four legs. Such children
would, of course, never mistake a cat for a hen. Their trouble lies in the inability to call
up in clear form a "free idea" of a cat or a hen for comparison with the perceptual presentation
offered by the picture. Middle-grade imbeciles of adult age have much the same difficulty as
normal children of 4 years in recognizing mutilations or absurdities in pictures of familiar
objects.

Binet first placed this test in year VII, changing it to year VIII in the 1911 revision. In
other revisions it has been retained in year VII, although all the available statistics except
Bobertag's warrant its location in year VI.

VI, 3. COUNTING THIRTEEN PENNIES

PROCEDURE. The procedure is the same as in the test of counting four pennies (year IV, test 3).
If the first response contains only a minor error, such as the omission of a number in counting,
failure to tally with the finger, etc., a second trial is given.

SCORING. The test is passed if there is one success in two trials. Success requires that the
counting should tally with the pointing. It is not sufficient merely to state the number of
pennies without pointing, for unless the child points and counts aloud we cannot be sure that
his correct answer may not be the joint result of two errors in opposite directions and equal;
for example, if one penny were skipped and another were counted twice the total result would
still be correct, but the performance would not satisfy the requirements.

REMARKS. Does success in this test depend upon intelligence or upon schooling? The answer is,
intelligence mainly. There are possibly a few normal 6-year-old children who could not pass
the test for lack of instruction, but children of this age usually have enough spontaneous
interest in numbers to acquire facility in counting as far as 13 without formal teaching. Certainly,
inability to do so by the age of 7 years is a suspicious sign unless the child's environment
has been extraordinarily unfavorable. On the other hand, feeble-minded adults of the 5-year
level usually have to have a great deal of instruction before they acquire the ability to count
13, and many of them are hardly able to learn it at all. So much does our learning depend on
original endowment.

Binet originally placed this test in year VII, but moved it to year VI in 1911. All the statistics,
without exception, show that this change was justified. Bobertag says that nearly all 7-year-olds
who are not feeble-minded can pass it, a statement with which we can fully agree.

VI, 4. COMPREHENSION, SECOND DEGREE

PROCEDURE. The questions used in this year are:--

  (a) "What's the thing to do if it is raining when you start to
      school?"
  (b) "What's the thing to do if you find that your house is on
      fire?"
  (c) "What's the thing to do if you are going some place and
      miss your train (car)?"

Note that the wording of the first part of the questions is slightly different from that in
year IV, test 5.

If there is no response, or if the child looks puzzled, the question may be repeated once or
twice. The form of the question must not under any circumstances be altered. Question b, for
example, would be materially changed if we should say: "Suppose you were to come home from
school and find that your house was burning up. What would you do?" The expression "burning
up" would probably be much less likely to suggest calling a fireman than would the words "on fire."

SCORING. Two out of three must be answered correctly. The harder the comprehension questions
are, the greater the variety of answers and the greater the difficulty of scoring. Because
of the difficulty many examiners find in scoring this test, we will list the most common satisfactory,
unsatisfactory, and doubtful responses to each question.

(a) If it is raining when you start to school

    Satisfactory. "Take umbrella," "Bring a parasol," "Put on
    rubbers," "Wear an overcoat," etc. This type of response
    occurred 61 times out of 72 successes. "Have my father bring me"
    also counts plus.

    Unsatisfactory. "Go home," "Stay at home," "Stay in the
    house," "Have the rainbow," "Stay in school," etc. "Stay at
    home" is the most common failure and might at first seem to the
    examiner to be a satisfactory response. As a matter of fact,
    this answer rests on a slight misunderstanding of the question,
    the import of which is that one is to go to school and it is
    raining.

    Doubtful. "Run" as an answer is a little more troublesome. It
    may reasonably be scored plus if it can be ascertained that
    the child is accustomed to meet the situation in this way. It is
    a common response with children in those regions of the
    Southwest where rains are so infrequent that umbrellas are
    rarely used. "Bring my lunch" may be considered a satisfactory
    response in case the child is in the habit of so doing on rainy
    days.

(b) If you find that your house is on fire

    Satisfactory. "Ring the fire alarm," "Call the firemen," "Call
    for help," "Put water on it," etc.

    Unsatisfactory. The most common failure, accounting for nearly
    half of all, is to suggest finding other shelter; e.g., "Go to
    the hotel," "Get another house," "Stay with your friends,"
    "Build a new house," etc. Others are: "Tell them you are sorry
    it burned down," "Be careful and not let it burn again," "Have
    it insured," "Cry," "Call the policeman," etc.

    Doubtful. Instead of suggesting measures to put out the fire,
    a good many children suggest mere escape or the saving of
    household articles. Responses of this type are: "Jump out of the
    windows," "Save yourself," "Get out as fast as you can," "Save
    the baby," "Get my dolls and jewelry and hurry and get out."
    These answers are about one seventh as frequent as the perfectly
    satisfactory ones, and the rule for scoring them is a matter of
    some importance. Under certain circumstances the logical thing
    to do would be to save one's self or valuables without wasting
    time trying to call help. There may be no help in reach, or a
    fire which the child imagines may be too far along for help to
    be effective. In order to avoid the possibility of doing a
    subject an injustice, it may be desirable to score such answers
    plus. We must not be too arbitrary.

(c) If you miss your train

    Satisfactory. The answer we expect is, "Wait for another,"
    "Take the next car," or something to that effect. This type of
    answer includes about 85 per cent of the responses which do not
    belong obviously in the unsatisfactory group. "Take a jitney" is
    a modern variation of this response which must be counted as
    satisfactory.

    Unsatisfactory. These are endless. One continues to meet new
    examples of absurdity, however many children one has tested. The
    possibilities are literally inexhaustible, but the following are
    among the most common: "Wait for it to come back," "Have to
    walk," "Be mad," "Don't swear," "Run and try to catch it," "Try
    to jump on," "Don't go to that place," "Go to the next station,"
    etc.

    Doubtful. The main doubtful response is, "Go home again,"
    "Come back next day and catch another," etc. In small or
    isolated towns having only one or two trains per day, this is
    the logical thing to do, and in such cases the score is plus.
    Fortunately, only about one answer in ten gives rise to any
    difference of opinion among even partly trained examiners.

REMARKS. The three comprehension questions of this group were all suggested by Binet in 1905.
Only one of them, however, "What would you do if you were going some place and missed your
train?" was incorporated in the 1908 or 1911 series, and this was used in year X with seven
others much harder. The other two remained unstandardized previous to the Stanford investigation.[53]

[53] For general discussion of the comprehension questions as a test, see p. 158.

VI, 5. NAMING FOUR COINS

PROCEDURE. Show a nickel, a penny, a quarter, and a dime, asking each time: "What is that?"
If the child misunderstands and answers, "Money," or "A piece of money," we say: "Yes, but
what do you call that piece of money?" Show the coins always in the order given above.

SCORING. The test is passed if three of the four questions are correctly answered. Any correct
designation of a coin is satisfactory, including provincialisms like "two bits" for the 25-cent
piece, etc. If the child changes his response for a coin, we count the second answer and ignore
the first. No supplementary questions are permissible.

REMARKS. Some of the critics of the Binet scale regard this test as of little value, because,
they say, the ability to identify pieces of money depends entirely on instruction or other
accidents of environment. The figures show, however, that it is not greatly influenced by differences
of social environment, although children from poor homes do slightly better with it than those
from homes of wealth and culture. The fact seems to be that practically all children by the
age of 6 years have had opportunity to learn the names of the smaller coins, and if they have
failed to learn them it betokens a lack of that spontaneity of interest in things which we
have mentioned so often as a fundamental presupposition of intelligence. It is by no means
a test of mere mechanical memory.

This test was given a place in year VII of Binet's 1908 scale, the coins used being the 1-sou,
2-sous, 10-sous, and 5-franc pieces. It was omitted from the Binet 1911 revision and also from
that of Goddard. Kuhlmann retains it in year VII. Others, however, have required all four coins
to be correctly named, and when this standard is used the test is difficult enough for year VII.
Germany has six coins up to and including the 1-mark piece, all of which could be named by
76 per cent of Bobertag's 7-year-olds. With the coins and the standard of scoring used in the
Stanford revision the test belongs well in year VI.

VI, 6. REPEATING SIXTEEN TO EIGHTEEN SYLLABLES

The sentences are:--

  (a) "We are having a fine time. We found a little mouse in the
      trap."
  (b) "Walter had a fine time on his vacation. He went fishing
      every day."
  (c) "We will go out for a long walk. Please give me my pretty
      straw hat."

PROCEDURE. The instructions should be given as follows: "Now, listen. I am going to say something
and after I am through I want you to say it over just like I do. Understand? Listen carefully
and be sure to say exactly what I say." Then read the first sentence rather slowly, in a distinct
voice, and with expression. If the response is not too bad, praise the child's efforts. Then
proceed with the second and third sentences, prefacing each with an exhortation to "say exactly
what I say."

In this year and in the memory-for-sentences test of later years it is not permissible to re-read
even the first sentence. The only reason for allowing a repetition of one of the sentences
in the earlier test of this kind was to overcome the child's timidity. With children of 6 years
or upward we seldom encounter the timidity which sometimes makes it so hard to secure responses
in some of the tests of the earlier years.

SCORING. The test is passed if at least one sentence out of three is repeated without error,
or if two are repeated with not more than one error each. A single omission, insertion, or
transposition counts as an error. Faults of pronunciation are of course overlooked. It is not
sufficient that the thought be reproduced intact; the exact language must be repeated. The
responses should be recorded verbatim. This is easily done if record blanks used for scoring
have the sentences printed in full.

REMARKS. In this test and in later tests of memory for sentences, it is interesting to ask
after each response: "Did you get it right?" As in the tests with digits, it is an unfavorable
sign when the child is perfectly satisfied with a very poor response.

It is evident that tests of this type give opportunity for different degrees of failure. To
repeat only a half or a third of each sentence is much more serious than to make but one error
in each sentence (one word omitted, inserted, or misplaced). It would be possible to use the
same sentences at three or four different age levels, by setting the appropriate standard for
success at each age. If the standard is one sentence out of three repeated with no more than
two errors, the test belongs in year V. If we require two absolutely correct responses out
of three, the test belongs at about year VII. The shifting standard is rendered unnecessary,
however, by the use of other tests of the same kind, easier ones in the lower years and more
difficult ones in the upper.

Sentences of sixteen syllables found a place in Binet's 1908 scale and were correctly located
in year VI, but later revisions, including that of Binet, have omitted the test.

VI. ALTERNATIVE TEST: FORENOON AND AFTERNOON

PROCEDURE. If it is morning, ask: "Is it morning or afternoon?" If it is afternoon, put the
question in the reverse form, "Is it afternoon or morning?" This precaution is necessary because
of the tendency of some children to choose always the latter of two alternatives. Do not cross-question
the child or give any suggestion that might afford a clue as to the correct answer.

SCORING. The test is passed if the correct response is given with apparent assurance. If the
child says he is not sure but thinks it forenoon (or afternoon, as the case may be), we score
the response a failure even if the answer happens to be correct. However, this type of response
is not often encountered.

REMARKS. It is interesting to follow the child's development with regard to orientation in
time. This development proceeds much more slowly than we are wont to assume. Certain distinctions
with regard to space, as up and down, come much earlier. As Binet remarks, schools sometimes
try to teach the events of national history to children whose time orientation is so rudimentary
that they do not even know morning from afternoon!

The test has two rather serious faults: (1) It gives too much play to chance, for since only
two alternatives are offered, guesses alone would give about fifty per cent of correct responses.
(2) We cannot be sure that the verbal distinction between forenoon and afternoon always corresponds
the two divisions of the day. It is possible that the temporal discrimination precedes the
formation of the correct verbal association.

This test was included in the year VI group of the 1908 scale, but was omitted from the 1911
revision. Nearly all the data except Bobertag's show that it is rather easy for year VI, though
too difficult for year V. Bobertag's figures would place the test in year VII. Possibly the
corresponding German words are not as easy to learn as our morning and afternoon.

CHAPTER XIII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR VII

VII, 1. GIVING THE NUMBER OF FINGERS

PROCEDURE. "How many fingers have you on one hand?" "How many on the other hand?" "How many
on both hands together?" If the child begins to count in response to any of the questions,
say: "No, don't count. Tell me without counting." Then repeat the question.

SCORING. Passed if all three questions are answered correctly and promptly without the necessity
of counting. Some subjects do not understand the question to include the thumbs. We disregard
this if the number of fingers exclusive of thumbs is given correctly.

REMARKS. Like the two tests of counting pennies, this one, also, throws light on the child's
spontaneous interest in numbers. However, the mental processes it calls into play are a little
less simple than those required for mere counting. If the child is able to give the number
of fingers, it is ordinarily because he has previously counted them and has remembered the
result. The memory would hardly be retained but for a certain interest in numbers as such.
Middle-grade imbeciles of even adult age seldom remember how many fingers they have, however
often they may have been told. They are not able to form accurate concepts of other than the
simplest number relationships, and numbers have little interest or meaning for them.

Binet gave this test a place in year VII of the 1908 series, but omitted it in the 1911 revision.
Goddard omits it, while Kuhlmann retains it in year VII, where, according to our own figures,
it unmistakably belongs. Bobertag finds it rather easy for year VII, though too difficult for
year VI.

Our data prove that this test fulfills the requirements of a good test. It shows a rapid but
even rise from year V to year VIII in the per cent passing, the agreement among the different
testers is extraordinarily close, and it is relatively little influenced by training and social
environment. For these reasons, and because it is so easy to give and score with uniformity,
it well deserves a place in the scale.

VII, 2. DESCRIPTION OF PICTURES

PROCEDURE. Use the same pictures as in III, 3, presenting them always in the following order:
Dutch Home, River Scene, Post-Office. The formula for the test in this year is somewhat different
from that of year III. Say: "What is this picture about? What is this a picture of?" Use the
double question, and follow the formula exactly. It would ruin the test to say: "Tell me everything
you see in this picture," for this form of question tends to provoke the enumeration response
even with intelligent children of this age.

When there is no response, the question may be repeated as often as is necessary to break the
silence.

SCORING. The test is passed if two of the three pictures are described or interpreted. Interpretation,
however, is seldom encountered at this age. Often the response consists of a mixture of enumeration
and description. The rule is that the reaction to a picture should not be scored plus unless
it is made up chiefly of description (or interpretation).

Study of the following samples of satisfactory responses will give a fairly definite idea of
the requirements for satisfactory description:--

Picture (a): satisfactory responses

    "The little girl is crying. The mother is looking at her and
    there is a little kitten on the floor."

    "The mother is watching the baby, and the cat is looking at a
    hole in the floor, and there is a lamp and a table so I guess
    it's a dining room."

    "The little girl has wooden shoes. Her mother is sitting in a
    chair and has a funny cap on her head. The cat is sitting on the
    floor and there is a basket by the mother and a table with
    something on it."

    "It's about Holland. The little Dutch girl is crying and the
    mother is sitting down."

    "A little Dutch girl and her mother and that's a kitten, and the
    little girl has her hand up as if she was doing something to her
    forehead. She has shoes that curve up in front."

    "Dutch lady, and the little baby doesn't want to come to her
    mother and the cat is looking for some mice."

    "The mother is sitting down and the little one has her hands up
    over her eyes. There's a pail by the mother and a chair with
    some clothes on it and a table with dishes. And here's a lamp
    and here's some curtains."

Picture (b): satisfactory responses

    "Some people in a boat. The water is high and if they don't look
    out the boat will tip over."

    "Some Indians and a lady and man. They are in a boat on the
    river and the boat is about to upset, and there are some dead
    trees going to fall."

    "There's a lot of water coming up to drown the people. There are
    two people in the boat and the boat is sinking."

    "There's some people sailing in a canoe and the woman is leaning
    over on the man because she is afraid."

    "There's an Indian and some white people in the boat. I suppose
    they are out for a ride in a canoe."

    "Picture about some man and lady in a canoe and going down to
    the sea."

    "They are taking a boat ride on the ocean and the water is up so
    high that one of them is scared. Here are some trees and two of
    them are going to fall down. Here's a little place or bridge you
    can stand on. The man is touching this one's head and this one
    has his hand on the cover."

    "The water is splashing all over. There's trees on this bank and
    there's a rock and some trees falling down. The people have a
    blanket over them."

Picture (c): satisfactory responses

    "A man selling eggs and two men reading the paper together and
    two men watching."

    "A few men reading a newspaper and one has a basket of eggs and
    this one has been fishing."

    "There's a man with a basket of eggs and another is reading the
    paper and a woman is hanging out clothes. There's a house near."

    "There's a man trying to read the paper and the others want to
    read it too. Here's a lady walking up to the barn. There are
    houses over there and one man has a basket."

    "There's a big brick house and five men by it and a man with a
    basket of eggs and a post-office sign and a lady going home."

    "They are all looking at the paper. He is looking over the other
    man's shoulder and this one is looking at the back of the paper.
    There's a woman cleaning up her back yard and some coops for
    hens."

    "A man reading a paper, a man with eggs, a woman and a tree and
    another house. That man has an apron on. This is the
    post-office."

Unsatisfactory responses are those made up entirely or mainly of enumeration. A phrase or two
of description intermingled with a larger amount of enumeration counts minus. Sometimes the
description is satisfactory as far as it goes, but is exceedingly brief. In such cases a little
tactful urging ("Go ahead," etc.) will extend the response sufficiently to reveal its true
character.

REMARKS. Description is better than enumeration because it involves putting the elements of
a picture together in a simple way or noting their qualities. This requires a higher type of
mental association (combinative power) than mere enumeration. An unusually complete description
indicates relative wealth of mental content and facility of association.

Binet placed this test in year VII, and it seems to have been retained in this location in
all revisions except Bobertag's. However, the statistics of various workers show much disagreement.
Lack of agreement is easily accounted for by the fact that different investigators have used
different series of pictures and doubtless also different standards for success. The pictures
used by Binet have little action or detail and are therefore rather difficult for description.
On the other hand, the Jingleman-Jack pictures used by Kuhlmann represent such familiar situations
and have so much action that even 5- or 6-year intelligence seldom fails with them. The pictures
we employ belong without question in year VII.

No better proof than the above could be found to show how ability of a given kind does not
make its appearance suddenly. There is no one time in the life of even a single child when
the power to describe pictures suddenly develops. On the contrary, pictures of a certain type
will ordinarily provoke description, rather than enumeration, as early as 5 or 6 years; others
not before 7 or 8 years, or even later.

VII, 3. REPEATING FIVE DIGITS

PROCEDURE. Use: 3-1-7-5-9; 4-2-3-8-5; 9-8-1-7-6. Tell the child to listen and to say after
you just what you say. Then read the first series of digits at a slightly faster rate than
one per second, in a distinct voice, and with perfectly uniform emphasis. Avoid rhythm.

In previous tests with digits, it was permissible to re-read the first series if the child
refused to respond. In this year, and in the digits tests of later years, this is not permissible.
Warning is not given as to the number of digits to be repeated. Before reading each series,
get the child's attention. Do not stare at the child during the response, as this is disconcerting.
Look aside or at the record sheet. Psychologically the repetition of digits differs from the
repetition of sentences mainly in the fact that digits have less meaning (fewer associations)
than the words of a sentence. It is because they are not as well knit together in meaning that
three digits tax the memory as much as six syllables making up a sentence.

Testing auditory memory for digits is one of the oldest of intelligence tests. It is easy to
give and lends itself well to exact quantitative standardization. Its value has been questioned,
however, on two grounds: (1) That it is not a test of pure memory, but depends largely on attention;
and (2) that the results are too much influenced by the child's type of imagery. As to the
first objection, it is true that more than one mental function is brought into play by the
test. The same may be said of every other test in the Binet scale and for that matter of any
test that could be devised. It is impossible to isolate any function for separate testing.
In fact, the functions called memory, attention, perception, judgment, etc., never operate
in isolation. There are no separate and special "faculties" corresponding to such terms, which
are merely convenient names for characterizing mental processes of various types. In any test
it is "general ability" which is operative, perhaps now chiefly in remembering, at another
time chiefly in sensory discrimination, again in reasoning, etc.

The second objection, that the test is largely invalidated by the existence of imagery types,
is not borne out by the facts. Experiments have shown that pure imagery types are exceedingly
rare, and that children, especially, are characterized by "mixed" imagery. There are probably
few subjects so lacking in auditory imagery as to be placed at a serious disadvantage in this test.

Lengthening a series by the addition of a single digit adds greatly to the difficulty. While
four digits can usually be repeated by children of 4 years, five digits belong in year VII
and six in year X.

It is always interesting to note the type of errors made. The most common error is to omit
one or more of the digits, usually in the first part of the series. If the child's ability
is decidedly below the test he may give only the last two or three out of the five or six heard.
Substitutions are also quite frequent, and if so many substitutions are made as to give a series
quite unlike that which the child has heard, it is an unfavorable sign, indicating weakness
of the critical sense which is so often found with low-level intelligence. In case of extreme
weakness of the power of auto-criticism, the child in response to the series 9-8-1-7-6-, may
say 1-2-3-4-5-6, or perhaps merely a couple of digits like 8-6, and still express complete
satisfaction with his absurd response. After each series, therefore, the examiner should say,
"Was it right?"[54] Very young subjects, however, have a tendency to answer "yes" to any question
of this type, and it is therefore best not to call for criticism of a performance below the
age of 6 or 7 years.

[54] "Was it wrong?" is not an equivalent question and should not be used.

Digit series of a given length are not always of equal difficulty, and for this reason it is
never wise to use series improvised at the moment of the experiment. We must avoid especially
series of regularly ascending or descending value, the repetition at regular intervals of a
particular digit, and all other peculiarities of arrangement which would favor the grouping
of the digits for easier retention.

It remains to mention two or three further cautions in regard to procedure. It is best to begin
with a series about one digit below the child's expected ability. If the child has a probable
intelligence of about 6 or 7 years, we should begin with four digits; in case of probable 10-year
intelligence we begin with five digits, etc. On the other hand, we should avoid beginning too
far down, because then the result is too much complicated by the effects of practice and fatigue.

It is not necessary, and often it is not expedient, to give the digits tests of all the different
years in succession; that is, without other tests intervening. While this may be permissible
with older children, in young children the power of sustained attention is so weak that no
single kind of test should occupy more than two or three minutes. Children below 6 or 7 years
should ordinarily be given the tests in the order in which they are listed in the record booklet.

In his 1911 revision of the scale Binet unfortunately shifted this test from year VII to year VIII.
Goddard follows his example, but Kuhlmann retains it in year VII. The data from more than a
dozen leading investigations in America, England, and Germany agree in showing that the test
should remain in year VII.

VII, 4. TYING A BOW-KNOT

PROCEDURE. Prepare a shoestring tied in a bow-knot around a stick. The knot should be an ordinary
"double bow," with wings not over three or four inches long. Make this ready in advance of
the experiment and show the child only the completed knot.

Place the model before the subject with the wings pointing to the right and left, and say:
"You know what kind of knot this is, don't you? It is a bow-knot. I want you to take this other
piece of string and tie the same kind of knot around my finger." At the same time give the
child a piece of shoestring, of the same length as that which is tied around the stick, and
hold out a finger pointed toward the child and in convenient position for the operation. It
is better to have the subject tie the string around the examiner's finger than around a pencil
or other object because the latter often falls out of the string and is otherwise awkward to
handle.

Some children who assert that they do not know how to tie a bow-knot are sometimes nevertheless
successful when urged to try. It is always necessary, therefore, to secure an actual trial.

SCORING. The test is passed if a double bow-knot (both ends folded in) is made in not more
than a minute. A single bow-knot (only one end folded in) counts half credit, because children
are often accustomed to use the single bow altogether. The usual plain common knot, which precedes
the bow-knot proper, must not be omitted if the response is to count as satisfactory, for without
this preliminary plain knot a bow-knot will not hold and is of no value. To be satisfactory
the knot should also be drawn up reasonably close, not left gaping.

REMARKS. This test, which had not before been standardized, was suggested to the writer by
the late Dr. Huey, who in a conversation once remarked upon the frequent inability of feeble-minded
adults to perform the little motor tasks which are universally learned by normal persons in
childhood. The test was therefore incorporated in the Stanford trial series of 1913-14 and
tried with 370 non-selected children within two months of the 6th, 7th, 8th, or 9th birthday.
It was expected that the test would probably be found to belong at about the 8-year level,
but it proved to be easy enough for year VII, where 69 per cent of the children passed it.
Only 35 per cent of the 6-year-olds succeeded, but after that age the per cent passing increased
rapidly to 94 per cent at 9 years.

This little experiment, simple as it is, seems to fulfill reasonably well the requirements
of a good test. The main objection which might be brought against it is that it is much subject
to the influence of training. If this were true in any marked degree, the mentally retarded
children of 7-year intelligence should be expected to succeed better with it than mentally
advanced children of the same mental level, since the former would have had at least two or
three years more in which to learn the task. A comparison of the two groups, however, shows
no great difference. The factor of age, apart from mental age, affects the results so little
that it is evident we have here a real test of intelligence.

It would, of course, be easy to imagine a child of 7 years who had not had reasonable opportunity
to make the acquaintance of bow-knots or to learn to tie them. But such children are seldom
encountered in the ages above 6 or 7. Of 68 7-year-olds who were asked whether they had ever
seen a bow-knot ("a knot like that") only two replied in the negative. It cannot be denied,
however, that specific instruction and special stimulus to practice do play a certain part.
This is suggested by the fact that girls excel the boys somewhat at each age, doubtless because
bow-knots play a larger rôle in feminine apparel. Social status affects the results in only
a moderate degree, though it might be supposed that poor ragamuffins, on the one hand, and
children of the very rich, on the other, would both make a poor showing in this test; the former
because of their scanty apparel, the latter because they sometimes have servants to dress them.

The following are probably the chief factors determining success with this test: (1) Interest
in common objective things; (2) ability to form permanent associative connections between successive
motor coördinations (memory for a series of acts); and (3) skill in the acquisition of voluntary
motor control. The last factor is probably much less important than the other two. Motor awkwardness
often prolongs the time from the usual ten or fifteen seconds to thirty or forty seconds, but
it is rarely a cause of a failure. The important thing is to be able to reproduce the appropriate
succession of acts, acts which nearly all children of 7 years, under the joint stimulus of
example and spontaneous interest, have before performed or tried to perform.

VII, 5. GIVING DIFFERENCES FROM MEMORY

PROCEDURE. Say: "What is the difference between a fly and a butterfly?" If the child does not
seem to understand, say: "You know flies, do you not? You have seen flies? And you know the
butterflies! Now, tell me the difference between a fly and a butterfly." Proceed in the same
way with stone and egg, and wood and glass. A little coaxing is sometimes necessary to secure
a response, but supplementary questions and suggestions of every kind are to be avoided. For
example, it would not be permissible for the examiner to say: "Which is larger, a fly or a
butterfly?" This would give the child his cue and he would immediately answer, "A butterfly."
The child must be left to find a difference by himself. Sometimes a difference is given, but
without any indication as to its direction, as, for example, "One is bigger than the other"
(for fly and butterfly). It is then permissible to ask: "Which is bigger?"

SCORING. Passed if a real difference is given in two out of three comparisons. It is not necessary,
however, that an essential difference be given; the difference may be trivial, only it must
be a real one. The following are samples of satisfactory and unsatisfactory responses:--

Fly and butterfly

    Satisfactory. "Butterfly is larger." "Butterfly has bigger
    wings." "Fly is black and a butterfly is not." "Butterfly is
    yellow (or white, etc.) and fly is black." "Fly bites you and
    butterfly don't." "Butterfly has powder on its wings, fly does
    not." "Fly flies straighter." "Butterfly is outdoors and a fly
    is in the house." "Flies are more dangerous to our health."
    "Flies haven't anything to sip honey with." "Butterfly doesn't
    live as long as a fly." "Butterfly comes from a caterpillar."

    Sometimes a double contrast is meant, but not fully expressed;
    as, "A fly is small and a butterfly is pretty." Here the thought
    is probably correct, only the language is awkward.

    Of 102 correct responses, 70 were in terms of size, or size plus
    color or form; 12 were in terms of both form and color; 6 in
    terms of color alone; and the rest scattered among such
    responses as those mentioned above.

    Unsatisfactory. These are mostly misstatements of facts; as:
    "Fly is bigger." "Fly has legs and butterfly hasn't." "Butterfly
    has no feet and fly has." "Butterfly makes butter." "Fly is a
    fly and a butterfly is not." Failures due to misstatement of
    fact are of endless variety. If an indefinite response is given,
    like "The fly is different," or "They don't look alike," we ask,
    "How is it different?" or, "Why don't they look alike?" It
    is satisfactory if the child then gives a correct answer.

Stone and egg

    Satisfactory. "Stone is harder." "Egg is softer." "Egg breaks
    easier." "Egg breaks and stone doesn't." "Stone is heavier."
    "Egg is white and stone is not." "Egg has a shell and stone does
    not." "Eggs have a white and a yellow in them." "You put eggs in
    a pudding." "An egg is rounder than a stone." We may also accept
    statements which are only qualifiedly true; as, "You can break
    an egg, but not a stone." Likewise double but incomplete
    comparisons are satisfactory; as, "An egg you fry and a stone
    you throw," "A stone is tough and an egg you eat," etc.

    A little over three fourths of the comparisons made by children
    of 6, 7, and 8 years are in terms of hardness. The other
    responses are widely scattered.

    Unsatisfactory. "A stone is bigger (or smaller) than an egg."
    "A stone is square and an egg is round." "An egg is yellow and a
    stone is white." "Stones are red (or black, etc.) and eggs are
    white." "An egg is to eat and a stone is to plant." "An egg is
    round and a stone is sometimes round."

    It will be noted that the above responses are partly true and
    partly false. The error they contain renders them unacceptable.
    Most of the failures are due to misstatements as to size, shape,
    or color, but occasionally one meets a bizarre answer.

Wood and glass

    Satisfactory. "Glass breaks easier than wood." "Glass breaks
    and wood does not." "Wood is stronger than glass." "Glass you
    can see through and wood you can't." "Glass cuts you and wood
    doesn't." "You get splinters from wood and you don't from
    glass." "Glass melts and wood doesn't." "Wood burns and glass
    doesn't." "Wood has bark and glass hasn't." "Wood grows and
    glass doesn't." "Glass is heavier than wood." "Glass glistens in
    the sun and wood does not."

    An incomplete double comparison is also counted satisfactory;
    as, "Wood you can burn and glass you can see through."

    Unsatisfactory. "Wood is black and glass is white." (Color
    differences are always unsatisfactory in this comparison unless
    transparency is also mentioned.) "Glass is square and wood is
    round." "Glass is bigger than wood" (or vice versa). "Wood is
    oblong and glass is square." "Glass is thin and wood is thick."
    "Wood is made out of trees and glass out of windows." "There is
    no glass in wood."

    The two most frequent types of failures are misstatements
    regarding color and thickness. The other failures are widely
    scattered.

REMARKS. The test is one which all the critics agree in commending, largely because it is so
little influenced by ordinary school experience. Its excellence lies mainly, however, in the
fact that it throws light upon the character of the child's higher thought processes, for thinking
means essentially the association of ideas on the basis of differences or similarities. Nearly
all thought processes, from the most complex to the very simplest, involve to a greater or
less degree one or the other of these two types of association. They are involved in the simple
judgments made by children, in the appreciation of puns, in mechanical inventions, in the creation
of poetry, in the scientific classification of natural phenomena, and in the origination of
the hypotheses of science or philosophy.

The ability to note differences precedes somewhat the ability to note resemblances, though
the contrary has sometimes been asserted by logician-psychologists. The difficulty of the test
is greatly increased by the fact that the objects to be compared are not present to the senses,
which means that the free ideas must be called up for comparison and contrast. Failure may
result either from weakness in the power of ideational representation of objects, or from the
inadequacy of the associations themselves, or from both. Probably both factors are usually
involved.

Intellectual development is especially evident in increased ability to note essential differences
and likenesses, as contrasted with those which are trivial, superficial, and accidental. To
distinguish an egg from a stone on the basis of one being organic, the other inorganic matter
requires far higher intelligence than to distinguish them on the basis of shape, color, fragibility,
etc. It is not till well toward the adult stage that the ability to give very essential likenesses
and differences becomes prominent, and when we get a comparison of this type from a child of
7 or 8 years it is a very favorable sign.

It would be well worth while to standardize a new test of this kind for use in the upper years
and especially adapted to display the ability to give essential likenesses and differences.
At year VII we must accept as satisfactory any real difference.

One point remains. In the tests of giving differences and similarities, it is well to make
note of any tendency to stereotypy, by which is meant the mechanical reappearance of the same
idea, or element, in successive responses. For example, the child begins by comparing fly and
butterfly on the basis of size; as, "A butterfly is bigger than a fly." So far, this is quite
satisfactory; but the child with a tendency to stereotypy finds himself unable to get away
from the dominating idea of size and continues to make it the basis of the other comparisons:
"A stone is larger than an egg," "Wood is larger than glass," etc. In case of stereotypy in
all three responses, we should have to score the total response failure even though the idea
employed happened to fit all three parts of the question. As a rule it is encountered only
with very young children or with older children who are mentally retarded. It is therefore
an unfavorable sign.

Although this test has been universally used in year VIII, all the available statistics, with
the exception of Bobertag's and Bloch's, indicate that it is decidedly too easy for that year.
Binet himself says that nearly all 7-year-olds pass it. Goddard finds 97 per cent passing at
year VIII, and Dougherty 90 per cent at year VI. With the standard of scoring given in the
present revision, and with the substitution of stone and egg instead of the more difficult
paper and cloth, the test is unquestionably easy enough for year VII.

VII, 6. COPYING A DIAMOND

PROCEDURE. On a white cardboard draw in heavy black lines a diamond with the longer diagonal
three inches and the shorter diagonal an inch and a half. The specially prepared record booklet
contains the diamond as well as many other conveniences.

Place the model before the child with the longer diagonal pointing directly toward him, and
giving him pen and ink and paper, say: "I want you to draw one exactly like this." Give three
trials, saying each time: "Make it exactly like this one." In repeating the above formula,
merely point to the model; do not pass the fingers around its edge.

Unlike the test of copying a square in year IV, there is seldom any difficulty in getting the
child to try this one. By the age of 7 the child has grown much less timid and has become more
accustomed to the use of writing materials.

Note whether the child draws each part carefully, looking at the model from time to time, or
whether the strokes are made in a more or less haphazard manner with only an initial glance
at the original.

After each trial, say to the child: "Is it good?" And after the three copies have been made
say: "Which one is the best?" Retarded children are sometimes entirely satisfied with the most
nondescript drawings imaginable, but they are more likely correctly to pick out the best of
three than to render a correct judgment about the worth of each drawing separately.

SCORING. The test is passed if two of the three drawings are at least as good as those marked
satisfactory on the score card. The diamond should be drawn approximately in the correct position,
and the diagonals must not be reversed. Disregard departures from the model with respect to size.

REMARKS. The test is a good one. Age and training, apart from intelligence, affect it only
moderately. There are few adult imbeciles of 6-year intelligence who are able to pass it, while
but few subjects who have reached the 8-year level fail on it.[55]

[55] For further discussion of drawing tests, see V, 1, and X, 3.

This test was located in year VII of the 1908 scale, but was shifted to year VI in Binet's
1911 revision. The change was without justification, for Binet expressly states, both in 1908
and 1911, that only half of the 6-year-olds succeed with it. The large majority of investigations
have given too low a proportion of successes at 6 years to warrant its location at that age,
particularly if pen is required instead of pencil. Location at year VI would be warranted only
on the condition that the use of pencil be permitted and only one success required in three trials.

VII, ALTERNATIVE TEST 1: NAMING THE DAYS OF THE WEEK

PROCEDURE. Say: "You know the days of the week, do you not? Name the days of the week for me."
Sometimes the child begins by naming various annual holidays, as Christmas, Fourth of July,
etc. Perhaps he has not comprehended the task; at any rate, we give him one more trial by stopping
him and saying: "No; that is not what I mean. I want you to name the days of the week." No
supplementary questions are permissible, and we must be careful not to show approval or disapproval
in our looks as the child is giving his response.

If the days have been named in correct order, we check up the response to see whether the real
order of days is known or whether the names have only been repeated mechanically. This is done
by asking the following questions: "What day comes before Tuesday?" "What day comes before
Thursday?" "What day comes before Friday?"

SCORING. The test is passed if, within fifteen seconds, the days of the week are all named
in correct order, and if the child succeeds in at least two of the three check questions. We
disregard the point of beginning.

REMARKS. The test has been criticized as too dependent on rote memory. Bobertag says a child
may pass it without having any adequate conception of "week," "yesterday," "day before yesterday,"
etc. This criticism holds if the test is given according to the older procedure, but does not
apply with the procedure above recommended. The "checking-up" questions enable us at once to
distinguish responses that are given by rote from those which rest upon actual knowledge.

The test has been shown to be much more influenced by age, apart from intelligence, than most
other tests of the scale. Notwithstanding this fault, it seems desirable to keep the test,
at least as an alternative, because it forms one of a group which may be designated as tests
of time orientation. The others of this group are: "Distinguishing forenoon and afternoon"
(VI), "Giving the date" and "Naming the months" (IX). It would be well if we had even more
of this type, for interest in the passing of time and in the names of time divisions is closely
correlated with intelligence. One reason for the inferiority of the dull and feeble-minded
in tests of this type is that their mental associations are weaker and less numerous. The greater
poverty of their associations brings it about that their remembered experiences are less definitely
located in time with reference to other events.

The test was located in year IX of the 1908 scale, but was omitted from the 1911 revision.
Kuhlmann also omits it, while Goddard places it in year VIII. The statistics from every American
investigation, however, warrant its location in year VII. It may be located in year VIII only
on the condition that the child be required to name the days backwards, and that within a rather
low time limit.

VII, ALTERNATIVE TEST 2: REPEATING THREE DIGITS REVERSED

PROCEDURE. The digits used are: 2-8-3; 4-2-7; 5-9-6. The test should be given after, but not
immediately after, the tests of repeating digits forwards.

Say to the child: "Listen carefully. I am going to read some numbers again, but this time I
want you to say them backwards. For example, if I should say 1-2-3, you would say 3-2-1. Do
you understand?" When it is evident that the child has grasped the instructions, say: "Ready
now; listen carefully, and be sure to say the numbers backwards." Then read the series at the
same rate and in the same manner as in the other digits tests. It is not permissible to re-read
any of the series.

If the first series is repeated forwards instead of backwards series exhort the child to listen
carefully and to be sure to repeat the numbers backwards.

SCORING. The test is passed if one series out of three is repeated backwards without error.

REMARKS. The test of repeating digits backwards was suggested by Bobertag in 1911, but appears
not to have been used or standardized previous to the Stanford investigation.

It is very much harder to repeat a series of digits backwards in the direct order at year VII,
and six at year X. Reversing the order places three digits in year VII, four in year X, five
in year XII, and six in "average adult." Even intelligent adults sometimes have difficulty
in repeating six digits backwards, once in three trials.

As a test of intelligence this test is better than that of repeating digits in the direct order.
It is less mechanical and makes a much heavier demand on attention. The digits must be so firmly
fixated in memory that they can be held there long enough to be told off, one by one, backwards.

Feeble-minded children find this test especially difficult, perhaps mainly because of its element
of novelty. School children are often asked to write numbers dictated by the teacher, and even
the very dull acquire a certain proficiency in doing so; but the test of repeating digits backwards
requires a certain facility in adjusting to a new task, exactly the sort of thing in which
the feeble-minded are so markedly deficient.

As a rule the response consumes much more time than in the other digits test. This is particularly
true when the series to be repeated backwards contains four or more digits. The chance of success
is greatly increased if the subject first thinks the series through two or three times in the
direct order before attempting the reverse order. The subject who responds immediately is likely
to begin correctly, but to give the first part of the original series in the direct order.
For example, 6-5-2-8 is given 8-2-6-5.

Sometimes the child gives one or two numbers and then stops, having completely lost the rest
of the series in the stress of adjusting to the novel and relatively difficult task of beginning
with the final digit. In such cases the feeble-minded are prone to fill in with any numbers
they may happen to think of. A good method for the subject is to break the series up into groups
and to give each group separately. Thus, 6-5-2-8 is given 8-2 (pause) 5-6. As a rule only the
more intelligent subjects adopt this method. One 12-year-old girl attending high school was
able to repeat eight digits backwards by the aid of this device.

It would be well worth while to investigate the relation of this test to imagery type. Such
a study would have to make use of adult subjects trained in introspection. It would seem that
success might be favored by the ability to translate the auditory impression into visual imagery,
so that the remembered numbers could be read off as from a book; but this may or may not be
the case. At any rate, success seems to depend largely upon the ability to manipulate mental
imagery.

The degree of certainty as to the correctness of the response is usually much less than in
repeating digits forwards.

CHAPTER XIV

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR VIII

VIII, 1. THE BALL-AND-FIELD TEST (SCORE 2, INFERIOR PLAN)

PROCEDURE. Draw a circle about two and one half inches in diameter, leaving a small gap in
the side next the child. Say: "Let us suppose that your baseball has been lost in this round
field. You have no idea what part of the field it is in. You don't know what direction it came
from, how it got there, or with what force it came. All you know is that the ball is lost somewhere
in the field. Now, take this pencil and mark out a path to show me how you would hunt for the
ball so as to be sure not to miss it. Begin at the gate and show me what path you would take."[56]

[56] The Stanford record booklet contains the circle ready for use.

Give the instructions always as worded above. Avoid using an expression like, "Show me how
you would walk around in the field"; the word around might suggest a circular path.

Sometimes the child merely points or tells how he would go. It is then necessary to say: "No;
you must mark out your path with the pencil so I can see it plainly." Other children trace
a path only a little way and stop, saying: "Here it is." We then say: "But suppose you have
not found it yet. Which direction would you go next?" In this way the child must be kept tracing
a path until it is evident whether any plan governs his procedure.

SCORING. The performances secured with this test are conveniently classified into four groups,
representing progressively higher types. The first two types represent failures; the third
is satisfactory at year VIII, the fourth at year XII. They may be described as follows:--

    Type a (failure). The child fails to comprehend the
    instructions and either does nothing at all or else, perhaps,
    takes the pencil and makes a few random strokes which could not
    be said to constitute a search.

    Type b (also failure). The child comprehends the instructions
    and carries out a search, but without any definite plan. Absence
    of plan is evidenced by the crossing and re-crossing of paths,
    or by "breaks." A break means that the pencil is lifted up and
    set down in another part of the field. Sometimes only two or
    three fragments of paths are drawn, but more usually the field
    is pretty well filled up with random meanderings which cross
    each other again and again. Other illustrations of type b are:
    A single straight or curved line going direct to the ball, short
    haphazard dashes or curves, bare suggestion of a fan or spiral.

    Type c (satisfactory at year VIII). A successful performance
    at year VIII is characterized by the presence of a plan, but one
    ill-adapted to the purpose. That some forethought is exercised
    is evidenced, (1) by fewer crossings, (2) by a tendency either
    to make the lines more or less parallel or else to give them
    some kind of symmetry, and (3) by fewer breaks. The
    possibilities of type c are almost unlimited, and one is
    continually meeting new forms. We have distinguished more than
    twenty of these, the most common of which may be described as
    follows:--

     1. Very rough or zigzag circles or similarly imperfect spirals.
     2. Segments of curves joined in a more or less symmetrical fashion.
     3. Lines going back and forth across the field, joined at the ends
        and not intended to be parallel.
     4. The "wheel plan," showing lines radiating from near the center
        of the field toward the circumference.
     5. The "fan plan," showing a number of lines radiating (usually)
        from the gate and spreading out over the field.
     6. "Fan ellipses" or "fan spirals" radiating from the gate like the
        lines just described.
     7. The "leaf plan," "rib plan," or "tree plan," with lines branching
        off from a trunk line like ribs, veins of a leaf, or branches of
        a tree.
     8. Parallel lines which cross at right angles and mark off the field
        like a checkerboard.
     9. Paths making one or more fairly symmetrical geometrical figures,
        like a square, a diamond, a star, a hexagon, etc.
    10. A combination of two or more of the above plans.

    Type d (satisfactory at year XII). Performances of this type
    meet perfectly, or almost perfectly, the logical requirements of
    the problem. The paths are almost or quite parallel, and there
    are no intersections or breaks. The possibilities of type d
    are fewer and embrace chiefly the  following:--

     1. A spiral, perfect or almost perfect, and beginning either at
     the gate or at the center of the field. 2. Concentric circles.
     3. Transverse lines, parallel or almost so, and joined at the
     ends.

Up to about 4 years most children failed entirely to comprehend the task. By the age of 6 years
the task is usually understood, but the search is conducted without plan. Type c is not attained
by two thirds before the mental level of 8 years, and score 3 ordinarily not until 11 or 12 years.

Grading presents some difficulties because of occasional border-line performances which have
a value almost midway between the types b and c or between c and d. Frequent reference to the
scoring card will enable the examiner, after a little experience, to score nearly all the doubtful
performances satisfactorily.

REMARKS. The ball-and-field problem may be called a test of practical judgment. Unlike a majority
of the other tests, it gives the subject a chance to show how well he can meet the demands
of a real, rather than an imagined, situation. Tests like this, involving practical adjustments,
are valuable in rounding out the scale, which, as left by Binet, placed rather excessive emphasis
on abstract reasoning and the comprehension of language. The test requires little time and
always arouses the child's interest.

Our analysis of the responses of nearly 1500 subjects shows that improvement with increasing
mental age is steady and fairly rapid. Occasionally, however, one meets a high-grade performance
with children of 6 or 7 years, and a low-grade performance with adults of average intelligence.
Like all the other tests of the scale, it is unreliable when used alone.

VIII, 2. COUNTING BACKWARDS FROM 20 TO 1

PROCEDURE. Say to the child: "You can count backwards, can you not? I want you to count backwards
for me from 20 to 1. Go ahead." In the great majority of cases this is sufficient; the child
comprehends the task and begins. If he does not comprehend, and is silent, or starts in, perhaps,
to count forwards from 1 or 20, say: "No; I want you to count backwards from 20 to 1, like
this: 20-19-18, and clear on down to 1. Now, go ahead."

Insist upon the child trying it even though he asserts he cannot do it. In many such cases
an effort is crowned with success. Say nothing about hurrying, as this confuses some subjects.
Prompting is not permissible.

SCORING. The test is passed if the child counts from 20 to 1 in not over forty seconds and
with not more than a single error (one omission or one transposition). Errors which the child
spontaneously corrects are not counted as errors.

REMARKS. The statistics on this test agree remarkably well. It is plainly too easy for year IX,
and no one has found it easy enough for year VII. The main lack of uniformity has been in the
adherence to a time limit. Binet required that the task be completed in twenty seconds, and
Goddard and most others adhere rather strictly to this rule. Kuhlmann, however, allows thirty
seconds if there is no error and twenty seconds if one error is committed. We agree with Bobertag
that owing to the nature of this test we should not be pedantic about the time. While a majority
of children who are able to count backwards do the task in twenty seconds, there are some intelligent
but deliberate subjects who require as much as thirty-five or forty seconds. If the counting
is done with assurance and without stumbling, there is no reason why we should not allow even
forty seconds. Beyond this, however, our generosity should not go, because of the chance it
would give for the use of special devices such as counting forwards each time to the next number
wanted.

It may be said that counting backwards is a test of schooling, and to a certain extent this
is true. It is reasonable to suppose that special training would enable the child to pass the
test a little earlier than he would otherwise be able to do, though it is doubtful whether
many children below 7 years of age have had enough of such training to influence the performance
very materially. On the other hand, when the child has reached an intelligence level of 8 or
at most 9 years, he is ordinarily able to count from 20 to 1 whether he has ever tried it before
or not.

What psychological factors are involved in this test? It presupposes, in the first place, the
ability to count from 1 to 20. But this alone does not guarantee success in counting backwards.
Something more is required than a mere rote memory for the number names in their order from
1 up to 20. The quantitative relationships of the numbers must also be apprehended if the task
is to be performed smoothly without a great deal of special training. In addition to being
reasonably secure in his knowledge of the number relationships involved, the child must be
able to give sustained attention until the task is completed. His mental processes must be
dominated by the guiding idea, "count backwards." Associations which do not harmonize with
this aim, or which fail to further it, must be inhibited. Even momentary relaxation of attention
means a loss of directive force in the guiding idea and the dominance of better known associations
which may be suggested by the task, but are out of harmony with it. Thus, if a child momentarily
loses sight of the end after counting backwards successfully from 20 to 14, he is likely to
be overpowered by the law of habit and begin counting forwards, 14-15-16-17, etc. We may regard
the test, therefore, as a test of attention, or prolonged thought control. The ability to exercise
unbroken vigilance for a period of twenty or thirty seconds is rarely found below the level
of 7- or 8-year intelligence.

VIII, 3. COMPREHENSION, THIRD DEGREE

The questions for this year are:--

  (a) "What's the thing for you to do when you have broken
      something which belongs to some one else?"
  (b) "What's the thing for you to do when you notice on your way
      to school that you are in danger of being tardy?"
  (c) "What's the thing for you to do if a playmate hits you
      without meaning to do it?"

The procedure is the same as in previous comprehension questions.[57] Each question may be
repeated once or twice, but its form must not be changed. No explanations are permissible.

[57] See IV, 5, and VI, 4.

SCORING:--

Question a (If you have broken something)

    Satisfactory responses are those suggesting either restitution
    or apology, or both. Confession is not satisfactory unless
    accompanied by apology. The following are satisfactory: "Buy a
    new one." "Pay for it." "Give them something instead of it."
    "Have my father mend it." "Apologize." "Tell them I'm sorry,
    that I did not mean to break it," etc. Of 92 correct answers, 76
    suggested restitution, while 16 suggested apology, or apology
    and restitution.

    Unsatisfactory. "Tell them I did it." "Go tell my mother."
    "Feel sorry." "Be ashamed." "Pick it up," etc. Mere confession
    accounts for over 20 per cent of all failures.

Question b (In danger of being tardy)

    Satisfactory. The expected response is, "Hurry," "Walk
    faster," or something to that effect. One bright city boy said
    he would take a car. Of the answers not obviously incorrect,
    nearly 95 per cent suggest hurrying. The rule ordinarily
    recommended is to grade all other responses minus. But this
    rule is too sweeping to be followed blindly. One who would use
    intelligence tests must learn to discriminate. "I would go back
    home and not go to school that day" is a good answer in those
    cases (fortunately rare) in which children are forbidden by the
    teacher to enter the schoolroom if tardy. "Go back home and get
    mother to write an excuse" would be good policy if by so doing
    the child might escape the danger of incurring an extreme
    penalty. When teachers inflict absurd penalties for unexcused
    tardiness, it is the part of wisdom for children to incur no
    risks! When such a response is given, it is well to inquire into
    the school's method of dealing with tardiness and to score the
    response accordingly.

    Unsatisfactory. "Go to the principal." "Tell the teacher I
    couldn't help it." "Have to get an excuse." "Go to school
    anyway." "Get punished." "Not do it again." "Not play hooky."
    "Start earlier next time," etc.

    Lack of success results oftenest from failure to get the exact
    shade of meaning conveyed by the question. It is implied, of
    course, that something is to be done at once to avoid tardiness;
    but the subject of dull comprehension may suggest a suitable
    thing to do in case tardiness has been incurred. Hence the
    response, "I would go to the principal and explain." Answers of
    this type are always unsatisfactory.

Question c (Playmate hits you)

    Satisfactory responses are only those which suggest either
    excusing or overlooking the act. These ideas are variously
    expressed as follows: "I would excuse him" (about half of all
    the correct answers). "I would say 'yes' if he asked my pardon."
    "I would say it was all right." "I would take it for a joke." "I
    would just be nice to him." "I would go right on playing." "I
    would take it kind-hearted." "I would not fight or run and tell
    on him." "I would not blame him for it." "Ask him to be more
    careful," etc.

    Unsatisfactory responses are all those not of the above two
    types; as: "I would hit them back." "I would not hit them back,
    but I would get even some other way." "Tell them not to do it
    again." "Tell them to 'cut it out.'" "Tell him it's a wrong
    thing to do." "Make him excuse himself." "Make him say he's
    sorry." "Would not play with him." "Tell my mamma." "I would ask
    him why he did it." "He'd say 'excuse me' and I'd say 'thank
    you.'" "He should excuse me." "He is supposed to say 'excuse
    me.'"

REMARKS. All three comprehension questions of this year were used by Binet, Goddard, Huey,
and others in year X; two of them in the "easy series" and one in the "hard series." The Stanford
data show that they belong at the 8-year level on the standard of scoring above set forth.
The three differ little among themselves in difficulty, but all of them are decidedly easier
than the other five used by Binet. It would be absurd to go on using the comprehension questions
as Binet bunched them, eight together, ranging in difficulty from one which is easy enough
for 6-year intelligence ("What's the thing to do if you miss your train?") to one which is
hard for the 12-year level ("Why is a bad act done when one is angry more excusable than the
same act done when one is not angry?").

VIII, 4. GIVING SIMILARITIES; TWO THINGS

PROCEDURE. Say to the child: "I am going to name two things which are alike in some way, and
I want you to tell me how they are alike. Wood and coal: in what way are they alike?" Proceed
in the same manner with:--

    An apple and a peach.
    Iron and silver.
    A ship and an automobile.

After the first pair the formula may be abbreviated to "In what way are ... and ... alike?"
It is often necessary to insist a little if the child is silent or says he does not know, but
in doing this we must avoid supplementary questions and suggestions. In giving the first pair,
for example, it would not be permissible to ask such additional questions as, "What do you
use wood for? What do you use coal for? And now, how are wood and coal alike?" This is really
putting the answer in the child's mouth. It is only permissible to repeat the original question
in a persuasive tone of voice, and perhaps to add: "I'm sure you can tell me how ... and ...
are alike," or something to that effect.

A very common mistake which the child makes is to give differences instead of similarities.
This tendency is particularly strong if test 5, year VII (giving differences), has been given
earlier in the sitting, but it happens often enough in other cases also to suggest that finding
differences is, to a much greater extent than finding similarities, the child's preferred method
of making a comparison. When a difference is given, instead of a similarity, we say: "No, I
want you to tell me how they are alike. In what way are ... and ... alike?" Unless the child
is of rather low intelligence level this is sufficient, but the mentally retarded sometimes
continue to give differences persistently in spite of repeated admonitions, or if they cease
to do so for one or two comparisons, they are likely to repeat the mistake in the latter part
of the test.

SCORING. The test is passed if a likeness is given in two out of four comparisons. We accept
as satisfactory any real likeness, whether fundamental or superficial, though, of course, the
more essential the resemblance, the better indication it is of intelligence. The following
are samples of satisfactory and unsatisfactory answers:--[58]

[58] For aid in classifying the responses in this and certain other tests the writer is indebted
to Miss Grace Lyman.

(a) Wood and coal

    Satisfactory. "Both burn." "Both keep you warm." "Both are
    used for fuel." "Both are vegetable matter." "Both come from the
    ground." "Can use them both for running engines." "Both hard."
    "Both heavy." "Both cost money."

    Of 80 correct answers, 64, or 80 per cent, referred in one way
    or another to combustibility.

    Unsatisfactory. Most frequent is the persistent giving of a
    difference instead of a similarity. This accounts for a little
    over half of all the failures. About half of the remainder are
    cases of inability to give any response. Incorrect statements
    with regard to color are rather common. Sample failures of this
    type are: "Both are black," or "Both the same color." Other
    failures are: "Both are dirty on the outside;" "You can't break
    them;" "Coal burns better;" "Wood is lighter than coal," etc.

(b) An apple and a peach

    Satisfactory. "Both are round." "Both the same shape." "They
    are about the same color." "Both nearly always have some red on
    them." "Both good to eat." "Can make pies of both of them."
    "Both can be cooked." "Both mellow when they are ripe." "Both
    have a stem" (or seeds, skin, etc.). "Both come from trees."
    "Can be dried in the same way." "Both are fruits." "Both green
    (in color) when they are not ripe."

    Of 82 correct answers, 25 per cent mention color; 25 per cent,
    form; 22 per cent, edibility; 20 per cent, having stem, seed, or
    skin; and 5 per cent, that both grow on trees.

    Unsatisfactory. "Both taste the same." "Both have a lot of
    seeds." "Both have a fuzzy skin." "An apple is bigger than a
    peach." "One is red and one is white," etc.

    Again, over 50 per cent of the failures are due to giving
    differences and about 18 per cent to silence.

(c) Iron and silver

    Satisfactory. "Both are metals" (or mineral). "Both come out
    of the ground." "Both cost money." "Both are heavy." "Both are
    hard." "Both can be melted." "Both can be bent." "Both used for
    utensils." "You manufacture things out of both of them." "Both
    can be polished."

    These are named most frequently in the following order: (1)
    hardness, (2) origin from the ground, (3) heaviness, (4) use in
    making things.

    Unsatisfactory. "Both thin" (or thick). "Sometimes they are
    the same shape." "Both the same color." "A little silver and
    lots of iron weigh the same." "Both made by the same company."
    "They rust the same." "You can't eat them" (!)[59]

    [59] One is here reminded of the puzzling conundrum, "Why is a
    brick like an elephant?" The answer being, "Because neither can
    climb a tree!" A response of this type states a fact, but because
    of its bizarre nature should hardly be counted satisfactory.

    Of 60 failures, 32 were due to giving differences and 14 to
    silence or unwillingness to hazard a reply.

(d) A ship and an automobile

    Satisfactory. "Both means of travel." "Both go." "You ride in
    them." "Both take you fast." "They both use fuel." "Both run by
    machinery." "Both have a steering gear." "Both have engines in
    them." "Both have wood in them." "Both can be wrecked." "Both
    break if they hit a rock."

    About 45 per cent of the answers are in terms of running or
    travel, 37 per cent in terms of machinery or structure, the rest
    scattered.

    Unsatisfactory. "Both black" (or some other color). "Both very
    big." "They are made alike." "Both run on wheels." "Ship is for
    the water and automobile for the land." "Ship goes on water and
    an automobile sometimes goes in water." "An auto can go faster."
    "Ship is run by coal and automobile by gasoline."

    Of 51 failures, 32 were due to giving differences and 14 to
    failure to reply.

REMARKS. The test of finding similarities was first used by Binet in 1905. Our results show
that it is fully as satisfactory as the test of giving differences. The test reveals in a most
interesting way one of the fundamental weaknesses of the feeble mind. Young normal children,
say of 7 or 8 years, often fail to pass, but it is the feeble-minded who give the greatest
number of absurd answers and who also find greatest difficulty in resisting the tendency to
give differences.[60]

[60] For further discussion of the processes involved, see VII, 5.

VIII, 5. GIVING DEFINITIONS SUPERIOR TO USE

PROCEDURE. The words for this year are balloon, tiger, football, and soldier. Ask simply: "What
is a balloon?" etc.

If it appears that any of the words are not familiar to the child, substitution may be made
from the following: automobile, battle-ship, potato, store.

Make no comments on the responses until all the words have been given. In case of silence or
hesitation in answering, the question may be repeated with a little encouragement; but supplementary
questions are never in order. Ordinarily there is no difficulty in securing a response to the
definition test of this year. The trouble comes in scoring the response.

SCORING. The test is passed if two of the four words are defined in terms superior to use.
"Superior to use" includes chiefly: (a) Definitions which describe the object or tell something
of its nature (form, size, color, appearance, etc.); (b) definitions which give the substance
or the materials or parts composing it; and (c) those which tell what class the object belongs
to or what relation it bears to other classes of objects.

It is possible to distinguish different grades of definitions in each of the above classes.
A definition by description (type a) may be brief and partial, mentioning only one or two qualities
or characteristics, or it may be relatively rich and complete. Likewise with definitions of
type b. Classificatory definitions (type c) are of particularly uneven value, the lowest order
being those which subsume the object to be defined under a remote class and give few if any
characteristics to distinguish it from other members of the same class; as, for example, "A
football is a thing you can have fun with," or, "A soldier is a person." The best classificatory
definitions are those which subsume the object under the next higher class and give the more
essential traits (perhaps a number of them) which distinguish the object from others of the
class named; as, for example, "A tiger is a large animal like a cat; it lives in the jungle
and eats men and other animals," or, "A soldier is a man who goes to war." These shades of
distinction give interesting and valuable clues to the maturity and richness of the apperceptive
processes, but for purposes of scoring it is necessary merely to decide whether the definition
is given in terms superior to use.

The following are samples of satisfactory definitions, those for each word being arranged roughly
in the order of their value from excellent to barely passing:--

(a) Balloon

    Satisfactory. "A balloon is a means of traveling through the
    air." "It is a kind of airship, made of cloth and filled with
    air so it can go up." "It is big and made of cloth. It has gas
    in it and carries people up in a basket that's fastened on to
    the bottom." "It is a thing you hold by a string and it goes
    up." "It is like a big bag with air in it." "It is a big thing
    that goes up."

    Unsatisfactory. "To go up in the air." "What you go up in."
    "When you go up." "They go up in it." "It's full of gas." "To
    carry you up." "A balloon is a balloon," etc. "It is big." "They
    go up," etc.

(b) Tiger

    Satisfactory. "It is a wild animal of the cat family." "It is
    an animal that's a cousin to the lion." "It is an animal that
    lives in the jungle." "It is a wild animal." "It looks like a
    big cat." "It lives in the woods and eats flesh." "Something
    that eats people."

    Unsatisfactory. "To eat you up." "To kill people." "To travel
    in the circus." "What eats people." "It is a tiger," etc. "You
    run from it," etc.

(c) Football

    Satisfactory. "It is a leather bag filled with air and made
    for kicking." "It is a ball you kick." "It is a thing you play
    with." "It is made of leather and is stuffed with air." "It is a
    thing you kick." "It is brown and filled with air." "It is a
    thing shaped like a watermelon."

    Unsatisfactory. "To kick." "To play with." "What they play
    with." "Boys play with it." "It's filled with air." "It is a
    football." "It is a basket ball." "It is round." "You kick it."

(d) Soldier

    Satisfactory. "A man who goes to war." "A brave man." "A man
    that walks up and down and carries a gun." "It is a man who
    minds his captain and stands still and walks straight." "It is a
    man who goes to war and shoots." "It is a man who stands
    straight and marches."

    Unsatisfactory. "To shoot." "To go to war." "It is a soldier."
    "A soldier that marches." "He fights." "He shoots." "What
    fights," etc. "When you march and shoot."

Silence accounts for only a small proportion of the failures with children of 8, 9, and 10 years.

REMARKS. The "use definitions" sometimes given at this age are usually of slightly better quality
than those given in year V. Younger children more often use the infinitive form, "to play with"
(doll), "to drive" (horse), "to eat on" (table), etc. Use definitions of this year more often
begin with "they," or "what"; as, "they go up in it" (balloon), "they kick it" (football), etc.

Why, it may be asked, is the use definition regarded as inferior to the descriptive or the
classificatory definition? Is not the use to which an object may be put the most essential
thing about it, for the child at least? Is it not more important to know that a fork is to
eat with than to be able to name the material it is made of? Is not the use primary and does
it not determine most of the physical characteristics of the object?

The above questions may sound reasonable, but they are based on poor psychology. We must rest
our case upon the facts. The first lesson which the student of child psychology must learn
is that it is unsafe to set up criteria of intelligence, of maturity, or of any other mental
trait on the basis of theoretical considerations. Experiment teaches that normal children of
5 or 6 years, also older feeble-minded persons of the 5-year intelligence level, define objects
in terms of use; also that normal children of 8 or 9 years and older feeble-minded persons
of this mental level have for the most part developed beyond the stage of use definitions into
the descriptive or classificatory stage. An ounce of fact is worth a ton of theory.

The test has usually been located in year IX, with the requirement of three successes out of
five trials and with somewhat more rigid scoring of the individual definitions. When only two
successes are required in four trials, and when scored leniently, the test belongs at the 8-year
level.

VIII, 6. VOCABULARY; TWENTY DEFINITIONS, 3600 WORDS

PROCEDURE. Use the list of words given in the record booklet. Say to the child: "I want to
find out how many words you know. Listen; and when I say a word you tell me what it means."
If the child can read, give him a printed copy of the word list and let him look at each word
as you pronounce it.

The words are arranged approximately (though not exactly) in the order of their difficulty,
and it is best to begin with the easier words and proceed to the harder. With children under
9 or 10 years, begin with the first. Apparently normal children of 10 years may safely be credited
with the first ten words without being asked to define them. Apparently normal children of
12 may begin with word 16, and 15-year-olds with word 21. Except with subjects of almost adult
intelligence there is no need to give the last ten or fifteen words, as these are almost never
correctly defined by school children. A safe rule to follow is to continue until eight or ten
successive words have been missed and to score the remainder minus without giving them.

The formula is as follows: "What is an orange?" "What is a bonfire?" "Roar; what does roar
mean?" "Gown; what is a gown?" "What does tap mean?" "What does scorch mean?" "What is a puddle?"
etc.

Some children at first show a little hesitation about answering, thinking that a strictly formal
definition is expected. In such cases a little encouragement is necessary; as: "You know what
a bonfire is. You have seen a bonfire. Now, what is a bonfire?" If the child still hesitates,
say: "Just tell me in your own words; say it any way you please. All I want is to find out
whether you know what a bonfire is." Do not torture the child, however, by undue insistence.
If he persists in his refusal to define a word which he would ordinarily be expected to know,
it is better to pass on to the next one and to return to the troublesome word later. Above
all, avoid helping the child by illustrating the use of a word in a sentence. Adhere strictly
to the formula given above. If the definition as given does not make it clear whether the child
has the correct idea, say: "Explain," or, "I don't understand; explain what you mean."

Encourage the child frequently by saying: "That's fine. You are doing beautifully. You know
lots of words," etc. Never tell the child his definition is not correct, and never ask for
a different definition.

Avoid saying anything which would suggest a model form of definition, as the type of definition
which the child spontaneously chooses throws interesting light on the degree of maturity of
the apperceptive processes. Record all definitions verbatim if possible, or at least those
which are exceptionally good, poor, or doubtful.

SCORING. Credit a response in full if it gives one correct meaning for the word, regardless
of whether that meaning is the most common one, and regardless of whether it is the original
or a derived meaning. Occasionally half credit may be given, but this should be avoided as
far as possible.

To find the entire vocabulary, multiply the number of words known by 180. (This list is made
up of 100 words selected by rule from a dictionary containing 18,000 words.) Thus, the child
who defines 20 words correctly has a vocabulary of 20 × 180 = 3600 words; 50 correct definitions
would mean a vocabulary of 9000 words, etc. The following are the standards for different years,
as determined by the vocabulary reached by 60 to 65 per cent of the subjects of the various
mental levels:--

     8 years          20 words    vocabulary  3,600
    10 years          30 words    vocabulary  5,400
    12 years          40 words    vocabulary  7,200
    14 years          50 words    vocabulary  9,000
    Average adult     65 words    vocabulary 11,700
    Superior adult    75 words    vocabulary 13,500

Although the form of the definition is significant, it is not taken into consideration in scoring.
The test is intended to explore the range of ideas rather than the evolution of thought forms.
When it is evident that the child has one fairly correct meaning for a word, he is given full
credit for it, however poorly the definition may have been stated.

While there is naturally some difficulty now and then in deciding whether a given definition
is correct, this happens much less frequently than one would expect. In order to get a definite
idea of the extent of error due to the individual differences among examiners, we have had
the definitions of 25 subjects graded independently by 10 different persons. The result showed
an average difference below 3 in the number of definitions scored plus. Since these subjects
attempted on an average about 60 words, the average number of doubtful definitions per subject
was below 5 per cent of the number attempted.

An idea of the degree of leniency to be exercised may be had from the following examples of
definitions, which are mostly of low grade, but acceptable unless otherwise indicated:--

   1. Orange. "An orange is to eat." "It is yellow and grows on a
      tree." (Both full credit.)

   2. Bonfire. "You burn it outdoors." "You burn some leaves or
      things." "It's a big fire." (All full credit.)

   3. Roar. "A lion roars." "You holler loud." (Full credit.)

   4. Gown. "To sleep in." "It's a nightie." "It's a nice gown that
      ladies wear." (All full credit.)

   7. Puddle. "You splash in it." "It's just a puddle of water."
      (Both full credit.)

   9. Straw. "It grows in the field." "It means wheat-straw." "The
      horses eat it." (All full credit.)

  10. Rule. "The teacher makes rules." "It means you can't do
      something." "You make marks with it," i.e., a ruler, often
      called a rule by school children. (All full credit.)

  11. Afloat. "To float on the water." "A ship floats." (Both full
      credit.)

  12. Eyelash. If the child says, "It's over the eye," tell him to
      point to it, as often the word is confused with eyebrow.

  14. Copper. "It's a penny." "It means some copper wire." (Both
      full credit.)

  15. Health. "It means good health or bad health." "It means
      strong." (Both full credit.)

  17. Guitar. "You play on it." (Full credit.)

  18. Mellow. If the child says, "It means a mellow apple," ask
      what kind of apple that would be. For full credit the answer
      must be "soft," "mushy," etc.

  19. Pork. If the answer is "meat," ask what animal it comes
      from. Half credit if wrong animal is named.

  21. Plumbing. "You fix pipes." (Full credit.)

  25. Southern. If the answer is "Southern States," or
      "Southern California," say: "Yes; but what does 'southern'
      mean?" Do not credit unless explanation is forthcoming.

  26. Noticeable. "You notice a thing." (Full credit.)

  29. Civil. "Civil War." (Failure unless explained.) "It means to
      be nice." (Full credit.)

  30. Treasury. Give half credit for definitions like "Valuables,"
      "Lots of money," etc.; i.e., if the word is confused with
      treasure.

  32. Ramble. "To go about fast." (Half credit.)

  38. Nerve. Half credit if the slang use is defined, "You've got
      nerve," etc.

  41. Majesty. "What you say to a king." (Full credit.)

  45. Sportive. "To like sports." (Half credit.) "Playful" or
      "happy." (Full credit.)

  46. Hysterics. "You laugh and cry at the same time." "A kind of
      sickness." "A kind of fit." (All full credit.)

  48. Repose. "You pose again." (Failure.)

  52. Coinage. "A place where they make money." (Half credit.)

  56. Dilapidated. "Something that's very old." (Half credit.)

  58. Conscientious. "You're careful how you do your work." (Full
      credit.)

  60. Artless. "No art." (Failure unless correctly explained.)

  61. Priceless. "It has no price." (Failure.)

  66. Promontory. "Something prominent." (Failure unless child can
      explain what it refers to.)

  68. Milksop. "You sop up milk." (Failure.)

  73. Harpy. "A kind of bird." (Full credit.)

  80. Exaltation. "You feel good." (Full credit.)

  85. Retroactive. "Acting backward." (Full credit.)

  92. Theosophy. "A religion." (Full credit.)

It is seen from the above examples that a very liberal standard has been used. Leniency in
judging definitions is necessary because the child's power of expression lags farther behind
his understanding than is true of adults, and also because for the young subject the word has
a relatively less unitary existence.

REMARKS. Our vocabulary test was derived by selecting the last word of every sixth column in
a dictionary containing approximately 18,000 words, presumably the 18,000 most common words
in the language. The test is based on the assumption that 100 words selected according to some
arbitrary rule will be a large enough sampling to afford a fairly reliable index of a subject's
entire vocabulary. Rather extensive experimentation with this list and others chosen in a similar
manner has proved that the assumption is justified. Tests of the same 75 individuals with five
different vocabulary tests of this type showed that the average difference between two tests
of the same person was less than 5 per cent. This means that any one of the five tests used
is reliable enough for all practical purposes. It is of no special importance that a given
child's vocabulary is 8000 rather than 7600; the significance lies in the fact that it is approximately
8000 and not 4000, 12,000, or some other widely different number.

It may seem to the reader almost incredible that so small a sampling of words would give a
reliable index of an individual's vocabulary. That it does so is due to the operation of the
ordinary laws of chance. It is analogous to predicting the results of an election when only
a small proportion of the ballots have been counted. It is known that a ballot box contains
600 votes, and if when only 30 have been counted it is found that they are divided between
two candidates in the proportion of 20 and 10, it is safe to predict that a complete count
will give the two candidates approximately 400 and 200 respectively.[61] In 1914 about 1,000,000
votes were cast for governor in California, and when only 10,000 votes had been counted, or
a hundredth of all, it was announced and conceded that Governor Johnson had been reëlected
by the 150,000 plurality. The completed count gave him 188,505 plurality. The error was less
than 4 per cent of the total vote.

[61] Supposing the ballots to have been shuffled.

The vocabulary test has a far higher value than any other single test of the scale. Used with
children of English-speaking parents (with children whose home language is not English it is
of course unreliable), it probably has a higher value than any three other tests in the scale.
Our statistics show that in a large majority of cases the vocabulary test alone will give us
an intelligence quotient within 10 per cent of that secured by the entire scale. Out of hundreds
of English-speaking children we have not found one testing significantly above age who had
a significantly low vocabulary; and correspondingly, those who test much below age never have
a high vocabulary.

Occasionally, however, a subject tests somewhat higher or lower in vocabulary than the mental
age would lead us to expect. This is often the case with dull children in cultured homes and
with very intelligent children whose home environment has not stimulated language development.
But even in these cases we are not seriously misled, for the dull child of fortunate home surroundings
shows his dullness in the quality of his definitions if not in their quantity; while the bright
child of illiterate parents shows his intelligence in the aptness and accuracy of his definitions.

We have not worked out a satisfactory method of scoring the quality of definitions in our vocabulary
test, but these differences will be readily observed by the trained examiner. Definitions in
terms of use and definitions which are slightly inaccurate or hazy are quite characteristic
of the lower mental ages. Children of the lower mental age have also a tendency to venture
wild guesses at words they do not know. This is especially characteristic of retarded subjects
and is another example of their weakness of auto-criticism. One feeble-minded boy of 12 years,
with a mental age of 8 years, glibly and confidently gave definitions for every one of the
hundred words. About 70 of the definitions were pure nonsense.

This vocabulary test was arranged and partially standardized by Mr. H. G. Childs and the writer
in 1911. Many experiments since then have proved its value as a test of intelligence.

VIII, ALTERNATIVE TEST 1: NAMING SIX COINS

PROCEDURE is exactly as in VI, 5 (naming four coins). The dollar should be shown before the
half-dollar.

SCORING. All six coins must be correctly named. If a response is changed the rule is to count
the second answer and ignore the first.

REMARKS. Binet used nine pieces and required knowledge of all at year X (1908), but at year IX
in the 1911 revision. Most other workers have used the same method, with the test located in
either year IX or year X.

VIII, ALTERNATIVE TEST 2: WRITING FROM DICTATION

PROCEDURE. Give the child pen, ink, and paper, place him in a comfortable position for writing,
and say: "I want you to write something for me as nicely as you can. Write these words: 'See
the little boy.' Be sure to write it all: 'See the little boy.'"

Do not dictate the words separately, but give the sentence as a whole. Further repetition of
the sentence is not permissible, as ability to remember what has been dictated is a part of
the test. Copy, of course, must not be shown.

SCORING. Passed if the sentence is written legibly enough to be easily recognized, and if no
word has been omitted. Ordinary mistakes of spelling are disregarded. The rule is that the
mistake in spelling must not mutilate the word beyond easy recognition. The performance may
be graded by the use of Thorndike's handwriting scale. The handwriting of 8-year-old children
who have been in school not less than one year or more than two usually falls between quality 7
and quality 9 on this scale, but we shall, perhaps, not be too liberal if we consider a performance
satisfactory which does not grade below quality 6, provided it is not seriously mutilated by
errors, omissions, etc.[62]

[62] See scoring card for samples of satisfactory and unsatisfactory performances.

REMARKS. This test found a place in year VIII of Binet's 1908 scale, but has been omitted from
all the other revisions, including Binet's own. Bobertag did not even regard the test as worthy
of a trial. The universal criticism has been that it is a test of schooling rather than of
intelligence. That the performance depends, in a certain sense, upon special instruction is
self-evident. Without such instruction no child of 8 years, however intelligent, would be able
to pass the test. Nature does not give us a conventionalized language, either written or spoken.
It must be acquired. It is also true that a high-grade feeble-minded child, say 8 years of
age and of 6-year intelligence, is sometimes (though not always) able to pass the test after
two years of school instruction. It is exceedingly improbable, however, that a feeble-minded
subject with less than 6-year intelligence will ever be able to pass this test, however long
he remains in school.

The conclusions to be drawn from these facts are as follows: (1) Inability to pass the test
should not be counted against the child unless it is known that he has had at least a full
year of the usual school instruction. (2) Ability to pass the test after only two years of
school instruction is almost certain proof that the child has reached a mental level of at
least 6 years. (3) Failure to pass the test must be regarded as a grave symptom in the case
of the child 9 or more years of age who is known to have attended school as much as two years.
(4) For mental levels higher than 8 years the test has hardly any diagnostic value, since feeble-minded
persons of 8- or 9-year intelligence can usually be taught to write quite legibly.

If the limitations above set forth are kept in mind, the test is by no means without value,
and is always worth giving as a supplementary test. Learning to write simple sentences from
dictation is no mean accomplishment. It demands, in the first place, a fairly complete mastery
of rather difficult muscular coördinations. Moreover, these coördinations must be firmly associated
with the corresponding letters and words, for if the writing coördinations are not fairly automatic,
so much attention will be required to carry them out that the child will not be able to remember
what he has been told to write. The necessity of remembering the passage acts as a distraction,
and writing from dictation is therefore a more difficult task than writing from copy.

CHAPTER XV

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR IX

IX, 1. GIVING THE DATE

PROCEDURE. Ask the following questions in order:--

  (a) "What day of the week is it to-day?"
  (b) "What month is it?"
  (c) "What day of the month is it?"
  (d) "What year is it?"

If the child misunderstands and gives the day of the month for the day of the week, or vice
versa, we merely repeat the question with suitable emphasis, but give no other help.

SCORING. An error of three days in either direction is allowed for c, but a, b, and d must
all be given correctly. If the child makes an error and spontaneously corrects it, the change
is allowed, but corrections must not be called for or suggested.

REMARKS. Binet originally located this test in year IX, but unfortunately moved it to year VIII
in the 1911 revision. Kuhlmann, Goddard, and Huey all retain it in year IX, where, according
to our own data, it unquestionably belongs. With the exception of Binet's 1911 results, the
statistics for the test are in remarkably close agreement for children in France, Germany,
England, and Eastern and Western United States. It seems that practically all children in civilized
countries have ample opportunity to learn the divisions of the year, month, and week, and to
become oriented with respect to these divisions. Special instruction is doubtless capable of
hastening time orientation to a certain degree, but not greatly. Binet tells of a French école
maternelle attended by children 4 to 6 years of age, where instruction was given daily in regard
to the date, and yet not a single one of the children was able to pass this test. This is a
beautiful illustration of the futility of precocious teaching. In spite of well-meant instruction,
it is not until the age of 8 or 9 years that children have enough comprehension of time periods,
and sufficient interest in them, to keep very close track of the date. Failure to pass the
test at the age of 10 or 11 years is a decidedly unfavorable sign, unless the error is very slight.

The fact that normal adults are occasionally unable to give the day of the month is no argument
against the validity of the test, since the system of tests is so constructed as to allow for
accidental failures on any particular test. As a matter of fact, very nearly 100 per cent of
normal 12-year-old children pass this test.

The unavoidable fault of the test is its lack of uniformity in difficulty at different dates.
It is easier for school children to give the day of the week on Monday or Friday than on Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday. Mistakes in giving the day of the month are less likely to occur at
the beginning or end of the month than at any other time, while mistakes in naming the month
are most likely to occur then.

It is interesting to compare the four parts of this test in regard to difficulty. Binet and
Bobertag both state that ability to name the year comes last, but they give no figures. Our
own data show that the four parts of the test are of almost exactly the same difficulty and
that this is true at all ages.

IX, 2. ARRANGING FIVE WEIGHTS

Use the five weights, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 grams. Be sure that the weights are identical in
appearance. The weights may be made as described under V, 1, or they may be purchased of C. H.
Stoelting & Co., Chicago, Illinois. If no weights are at hand one of the alternative tests
may be substituted.

PROCEDURE. Place the five boxes on the table in an irregular group before the child and say:
"See the boxes. They all look alike, don't they? But they are not alike. Some of them are heavy,
some are not quite so heavy, and some are still lighter. No two weigh the same. Now, I want
you to find the heaviest one and place it here. Then find the one that is just a little lighter
and put it here. Then put the next lighter one here, and the next lighter one here, and the
lightest of all at this end (pointing each time at the appropriate spot). Do you understand?"
Whatever the child answers, in order to make sure that he does understand, we repeat the instructions
thus: "Remember now, that no two weights are the same. Find the heaviest one and put it here,
the next heaviest here, and lighter, lighter, until you have the very lightest here. Ready;
go ahead."

It is best to follow very closely the formula here given, otherwise there is danger of stating
the directions so abstractly that the subject could not comprehend them. A formula like "I
want you to arrange the blocks in a gradually decreasing series according to weight" would
be Greek to most children of 10 years.

If the subject still seems at a loss to know what to do, the instructions may be again repeated.
But no further help of any kind may be given. Do not tell the subject to take the blocks one
at a time in the hand and try them, and do not illustrate by hefting the blocks yourself. It
is a part of the test to let the subject find his own method.

Give three trials, shuffling the boxes after each. Do not repeat the instructions before the
second and third trials unless the subject has used an absurd procedure in the previous trial.

SCORING. The test is passed if the blocks are arranged in the correct order twice out of three
trials. Always record the order of arrangement and note the number and extent of displacement.
Obviously an arrangement like 12-6-15-3-9 is very much more serious than one like 15-12-6-9-3,
but we require that two trials be absolutely without error.

Scoring is facilitated if the blocks are marked on the bottom so that they may be easily identified.
It is then necessary to exercise some care to see that the subject does not examine the bottom
of the blocks for a clue as to the correct order.

REMARKS. Binet originally located this test in year IX, but in his 1911 revision changed it
to year VIII. Other revisions have retained it in year IX. The correct location depends upon
the weights used and upon the procedure and scoring. Kuhlmann uses weights of 3, 9, 18, 27,
36, and 45 grams, and this probably makes the test easier. Bobertag tried two sets of boxes,
one set being of larger dimensions than the other. The larger gave decidedly the more errors.
If we require only one success in three trials the test could be located a year or two lower
in the scale, while three successes as a standard would require that it be moved upward possibly
as much as two years.

Much depends also on whether the child is left to find his own method, and on this there has
been much difference of procedure. Kuhlmann, Bobertag, and Wallin illustrate the correct method
of making the comparison by first hefting and arranging the weights while the subject looks
on. We prefer to keep the test in its original form, and with the procedure and scoring we
have used it is well located in year IX.

Wallin carries his assistance still further by saying, after the first block has been placed,
"Now, find the heaviest of the four," and after the second has been placed, "Now, find the
heaviest of the three," etc. Finally, when the arrangement has been made, he tells the subject
to try them again to make sure the order is correct, allowing the subject to make whatever
changes he thinks necessary. This procedure robs the test of its most valuable features. The
experiment was not devised primarily as a test of sensory discrimination, for it has long been
recognized that individuals who have developed as far as the 9- or 10-year level of intelligence
are ordinarily but little below normal in sensory capacity.

Psychologically, the test resembles that of comparing weights in V, 1. Success depends, in
the first place, upon the correct comprehension of the task and the setting of a goal to be
attained; secondly, upon the choice of a suitable method for realizing the goal; and finally,
upon the ability to keep the end clearly in consciousness until all the steps necessary for
its attainment have been gone through. Elementary as are the processes involved, they represent
the prototype of all purposeful behavior. The statesman, the lawyer, the teacher, the physician,
the carpenter, all in their own way and with their own materials, are continually engaged in
setting goals, choosing means, and inhibiting the multitudinous appeals of irrelevant and distracting
ideas.

In this experiment the subject may fail in any one of the three requirements of the test or
in all of them. (1) He may not comprehend the instructions and so be unable to set the goal.
(2) Though understanding what is expected of him, he may adopt an absurd method of carrying
out the task. Or (3) he may lose sight of the end and begin to play with the blocks, stacking
them on top of one another, building trains, tossing them about, etc. Sometimes the guiding
idea is not completely lost, but is weakened or rendered only partially operative. In such
a case the subject may compare some of the blocks carefully, place others without trying them
at all, but continue in his half-rational, half-irrational procedure until all the blocks have
been arranged.

It is essential, therefore, to supplement the mere record of success or failure by jotting
down a brief but accurate description of the performance. Note any hesitation or inability
to grasp the instructions. Note especially any absurd procedure, such as placing all the blocks
without hefting any of them, comparing only some of them, holding them up and shaking them,
hefting two at once in the same hand, etc. The ideal method, of course, is to try all the blocks
carefully before placing any of them, then to make a tentative arrangement, and finally, to
correct this tentative arrangement by means of individual comparisons. A slight departure from
this method does not always bring failure, but it renders success less probable. As a rule
it is only the very intelligent children of 10 years who think to test out their first arrangement
by making a final and additional trial of each block in turn. Contrary to what might be supposed,
success is slightly favored by hefting the blocks successively with one hand rather than by
taking one in each hand for simultaneous comparison, but as the child cannot be expected to
know this, we must regard the two methods as equally logical.

The test of arranging weights has met universal praise. Its special advantage is that it tests
the subject's intelligence in the manipulation of things rather than his capacity for dealing
with abstractions. It tests his ability to do something rather than his ability to express
himself in language. It throws light upon certain factors of motor adaptation and practical
judgment which play a great part in the everyday life of the average human being. It depends
as little upon school, perhaps, as any other test of the scale, and it is readily usable with
children of all nations without danger of being materially altered in translation Moreover,
it is always an interesting test for the child. Bobertag goes so far as to say that any 8-
or 9-year child who passes this test cannot possibly be feeble-minded. This may be true; but
the converse is hardly the case; that is, the failure of older children is by no means certain
proof of mental retardation. The same observation, however, applies equally well to many other
of the Binet tests, some of which correlate more closely with true mental age than this one.
A rather considerable fraction of normal 12-year-olds fail on it, and it is in fact somewhat
less dependable than certain other tests if we wish to differentiate between 9-year and 11-year
intelligence. But it is a test we could ill afford to eliminate.[63]

[63] Compare with V, 1.

IX, 3. MAKING CHANGE

PROCEDURE. Ask the following questions in the order here given:--

  (a) "If I were to buy 4 cents worth of candy and should give
      the storekeeper 10 cents, how much money would I get back?"
  (b) "If I bought 13 cents worth and gave the storekeeper
      15 cents, how much would I get back?"
  (c) "If I bought 4 cents worth and gave the storekeeper
      25 cents, how much would I get back?"

Coins are not used, and the subject is not allowed the help of pencil and paper. If the subject
forgets the statement of the problem, it is permissible to repeat it once, but only once. The
response should be made in ten or fifteen seconds for each problem.

SCORING, The test is passed if two out of three problems are answered correctly in the allotted
time. In case two answers are given to a problem, we follow the usual rule of counting the
second and ignoring the first.

REMARKS. Problems of this nature, when thoroughly standardized, are extremely valuable as tests
of intelligence. The difficulty of the test, as we have used it, does not lie in the subtraction
of 4 from 10, 12 from 15, etc. Such subtractions, when given as problems in subtraction, are
readily solved by practically all normal 8-year-olds who have attended school as much as two
years. The problems of the test have a twofold difficulty: (1) The statement of the problem
must be comprehended and held in mind until the solution has been arrived at; (2) the problem
is so stated that the subject must himself select the fundamental operation which applies.
The latter difficulty is somewhat the greater of the two, addition sometimes being employed
instead of subtraction.

It is just such difficulties as this that prove so perplexing to the feeble-minded. High-grade
defectives, although they require more than the usual amount of drill and are likely to make
occasional errors, are nevertheless capable of learning to add, subtract, multiply, and divide
fairly well. Their main trouble comes in deciding which of these operations a given problem
calls for. They can master routine, but as regards initiative, judgment, and power to reason
they are little educable. The psychology and pedagogy of mental deficiency is epitomized in
this statement.

There has been little disagreement as to the proper location of the test of making change,
but various procedures have been employed. Coins have generally been employed, in which case
the subject is actually allowed to make the change. Most other revisions have also given only
a single problem, usually 4 cents out of 20 cents, or 4 out of 25, or 9 out of 25. It is evident
that these are not all of equal difficulty. There is general agreement, however, that normal
children of 9 years should be able to make simple change.

IX, 4. REPEATING FOUR DIGITS REVERSED

The series are 6-5-2-8; 4-9-3-7; 3-6-2-9.

PROCEDURE AND SCORING. Exactly as in VII, alternate test 2.[64]

[64] See discussion, p. 207 ff.

IX, 5. USING THREE WORDS IN A SENTENCE

PROCEDURE The words used are:--

  (a) Boy, ball, river.
  (b) Work, money, men.
  (c) Desert, rivers, lakes.

Say: "You know what a sentence is, of course. A sentence is made up of some words which say
something. Now, I am going to give you three words, and you must make up a sentence that has
all three words in it. The three words are 'boy,' 'ball,' 'river.' Go ahead and make up a sentence
that has all three words in it." The others are given in the same way.

Note that the subject is not shown the three words written down, and that the reply is to be
given orally.

If the subject does not understand what is wanted, the instruction may be repeated, but it
is not permissible to illustrate what a sentence is by giving one. There must be no preliminary
practice.

A curious misunderstanding which is sometimes encountered comes from assuming that the sentence
must be constructed entirely of the three words given. If it appears that the subject is stumbling
over this difficulty, we explain: "The three words must be put with some other words so that
all of them together will make a sentence."

Nothing is said about hurrying, but if a sentence is not given within one minute the rule is
to count that part of the test a failure and to proceed to the next trio of words.

Give only one trial for each part of the test.

Do not specially caution the child to avoid giving more than one sentence, as this is implied
in the formula used and should be understood.

SCORING. The test is passed if two of the three sentences are satisfactory. In order to be
satisfactory a sentence must fulfill the following requirements: (1) It must either be a simple
sentence, or, if compound, must not contain more than two distinct ideas; and (2) it must not
express an absurdity.

Slight changes in one or more of the key words are disregarded, as river for rivers, etc.

The scoring is difficult enough to justify rather extensive illustration.

(a) Boy, ball, river

    Satisfactory. An analysis of 128 satisfactory responses gave
    the following classification:--

    (1) Simple sentence containing a simple subject and a simple
    predicate; as: "The boy threw his ball into the river." "The boy
    lost his ball in the river." "The boy's ball fell into the
    river." "The boy swam into the river after his ball," etc. This
    group contains 76 per cent of the correct responses.

    (2) A sentence with a simple subject and a compound predicate;
    as: "A boy went to the river and took his ball with him." About
    8 per cent of all were of this type.

    (3) A complex sentence containing a relative clause (2 per cent
    only); as: "The boy ran after his ball which was rolling toward
    the river."

    (4) A compound sentence containing two independent clauses
    (about 14 per cent); as: "The boy had a ball and he lost it in
    the river."

    Unsatisfactory. The failures fall into four chief groups:--

    (1) Sentences with three clauses (or else three separate
    sentences).

    (2) Sentences containing an absurdity.

    (3) Sentences which omit one of the key words.

    (4) Silence, due ordinarily to inability to comprehend the task.

    Group 1 includes 78 per cent of the failures; group 2, about
    12 per cent; and group 3 and 4 about 5 per cent each. Samples of
    group 1 are: "There was a boy, and he bought a ball, and it fell
    into the river." "I saw a boy, and he had a ball, and he was
    playing by the river." Illustration of an absurd sentence, "The
    boy was swimming in the river and he was playing ball."

(b) Work, money, men

    Satisfactory:--

    (1) Sentence with a simple subject and simple predicate
    (including 75 per cent of 116 satisfactory responses); as: "Men
    work for their money." "Men get money for their work," etc.

    (2) A complex sentence with a relative clause (12 per cent of
    correct answers); as: "Men who work earn much money." "It is
    easy for men to earn money if they are willing to work," etc.

    (3) A compound sentence with two independent, coördinate clauses
    (13 per cent); as: "Men work and they earn money." "Some men
    have money and they do not work."

    Unsatisfactory:--

    (1) Three clauses; as: "I know a man and he has money, and he
    works at the store."

    (2) Sentences which are absurd or meaningless; as: "Men work
    with their money."

    (3) Omission of one of the words.

    (4) Inability to respond.

(c) Desert, rivers, lakes

    Satisfactory:--

    (1) Sentences with a simple subject and a simple predicate
    (including 84 per cent of 126 correct answers); as: "There are
    no rivers or lakes in the desert." "The desert has one river and
    one lake," etc.

    (2) A complex sentence with a relative clause (only 2 per cent);
    as: "In the desert there was a river which flowed into a lake."

    (3) A compound sentence with two independent, coördinate clauses
    (11 per cent); as: "We went to the desert, and it had no rivers
    or lakes."

    (4) A compound, complex sentence (3 per cent of all); as: "There
    was a desert, and near by there was a river that emptied into a
    lake."

    Unsatisfactory:--

    (1) Sentences with three clauses (40 per cent of all failures);
    as: "A desert is dry, rivers are long, lakes are rough."

    (2) Sentences containing an absurdity (12 per cent of the
    failures): as: "a desert is dry, rivers are long, lakes are
    filled with swimming boys." "The lake went through the desert
    and the river." "There was a desert and rivers and lakes in the
    forest." "The desert is full of rivers and lakes."

    (3) Omission of one of the words (40 per cent of the failures).

    (4) Inability to respond (8 per cent).

REMARKS. The test of constructing a sentence containing given words was first used by Masselon
and is known as "the Masselon experiment." Meumann, who used it in a rather extended experiment,[65]
finds it a good test of intelligence and a reliable index as to the richness, definiteness,
and maturity of the associative processes. As Meumann shows, it is instructive to study the
qualitative differences between the responses of bright and dull children, apart from questions
of sentence structure. These differences are especially discernible in (a) the logical qualities
of the associations, and (b) the definiteness of statement. As regards (a), bright children
are much more likely to use the given words as keystones in the construction of a sentence
which would be logically suggested by them. For example, donkey, blows, suggest some such sentence
as, "The donkey receives blows because he is lazy." In like manner we have found that the words
work, money, men usually suggest to the more intelligent children a sentence like "Men work
for their money" (or "because they need money," etc.), while the dull child is more likely
to give some such sentence as "The men have work and they don't have much money." That is,
the sentence of the dull child, even though correct in structure and free enough from outright
absurdity to satisfy the standard of scoring which we have set forth, is likely to express
ideas which are more or less nondescript, ideas not logically suggested by the set of words given.

[65] "Ueber eine neue Methode der Intelligenzprüfung und über den Wert der Kombinationsmethoden,"
in Zeitschrift für Pädagogische Psychologie und Experimentelle Pädagogik (1912), pp. 145-63.

The experiment is one of the many forms of the "completion test," or "the combination method."
As we have already noted, the power to combine more or less separate and isolated elements
into a logical whole is one of the most essential features of intelligence. The ability to
do so in a given case depends, in the first place, upon the number and logical quality of the
associations which have previously been made with each of the given elements separately, and
in the second place, upon the readiness with which these ideational stores yield up the particular
associations necessary for weaving the given words into some kind of unity. The child must
pass from what is given to what is not given but merely suggested. This requires a certain
amount of invention. Scattered fragments must be conceived as the skeleton of a thought, and
this skeleton, or partial skeleton, must be assembled and made whole. The task is analogous
to that which confronts the palæontologist, who is able to reconstruct, with a high degree
of certainty, the entire skeleton of an extinct animal from the evidence furnished by three
or four fragments of bones. It is no wonder, therefore, that subjects whose ideational stores
are scanty, and whose associations are based upon accidental rather than logical connections,
find the test one of peculiar difficulty. Invention thrives in a different soil.

Binet located this test in year X. Goddard and Kuhlmann assign it the same location, though
their actual statistics agree closely with our own. Our procedure makes the test somewhat easier
than that of Binet, who gave only one trial and used the somewhat more difficult words Paris,
river, fortune. Others have generally followed the Binet procedure, merely substituting for
Paris the name of a city better known to the subject. Binet's requirement of a written response
also makes the test harder.

Perhaps the greatest obstacle to uniformity in the use of the test comes from the difficulty
of scoring, particularly in deciding whether the sentence contains enough absurdity to disqualify
it, and whether it expresses three separate ideas or only two. It is hoped that the rather
large variety of sample responses which we have given will reduce these difficulties to a minimum.

An additional word is necessary in regard to what constitutes an absurdity in (b). A sentence
like "There are some rivers and lakes in the desert" is not an absurdity in certain parts of
Western United States. In Professor Ordahl's tests at Reno, Nevada, many children whose intelligence
was altogether above suspicion gave this reply. The statement is, indeed, perfectly true for
the semi-arid region in the vicinity of Reno known as "the desert." On the other hand, such
sentences as "The desert is full of rivers and lakes," or "There are forty rivers and lakes
in the desert," can hardly be considered satisfactory. Similar difficulties are presented by
(c), though not so frequently. "Men who work do not have money" expresses, unfortunately, more
truth than nonsense.

IX, 6. FINDING RHYMES

PROCEDURE. Say to the child: "You know what a rhyme is, of course. A rhyme is a word that sounds
like another word. Two words rhyme if they end in the same sound. Understand?" Whether the
child says he understands or not, we proceed to illustrate what a rhyme is, as follows: "Take
the two words 'hat' and 'cat.' They sound alike and so they make a rhyme. 'Hat,' 'rat,' 'cat,'
'bat' all rhyme with one another."

That is, we first explain what a rhyme is and then we give an illustration. A large majority
of American children who have reached the age of 9 years understand perfectly what a rhyme
is, without any illustration. A few, however, think they understand, but do not; and in order
to insure that all are given equal advantage it is necessary never to omit the illustration.

After the illustration say: "Now, I am going to give you a word and you will have one minute
to find as many words as you can that rhyme with it. The word is 'day.' Name all the words
you can think of that rhyme with 'day.'"

If the child fails with the first word, before giving the second we repeat the explanation
and give sample rhymes for day; otherwise we proceed without further explanation to mill and
spring, saying, "Now, you have another minute to name all the words you can think of that rhyme
with 'mill,'" etc. Apart from the mention of "one minute" say nothing to suggest hurrying,
as this tends to throw some children into mental confusion.

SCORING. Passed if in two out of the three parts of the experiment the child finds three words
which rhyme with the word given, the time limit for each series being one minute. Note that
in each case there must be three words in addition to the word given. These must be real words,
not meaningless syllables or made-up words. However, we should be liberal enough to accept
such words as ding (from "ding-dong ") for spring, Jill (see "Jack and Jill") for mill, Fay
(girl's name) for day, etc.

REMARKS. At first thought it would seem that the demands made by this test upon intelligence
could not be very great. Sound associations between words may be contrasted unfavorably with
associations like those of cause and effect, part to whole, whole to part, opposites, etc.
But when we pass from a-priori considerations to an examination of the actual data, we find
that the giving of rhymes is closely correlated with general intelligence.

The 9-year-olds who test at or above 10 years nearly always do well in finding rhymes, while
9-year-olds who test as low as 8 years seldom pass. When a test thus shows high correlation
with the scale as a whole, we must either accept the test as valid or reject the scale altogether.
While the feeble-minded do not do as well in this test as normal children of corresponding
mental age, the percentage successes for them rises rapidly between mental age 8 and mental
age 10 or 11.

Closer psychological analysis of the processes involved will show why this is true. To find
rhymes for a given word means that one must hunt out verbal associations under the direction
of a guiding idea. Every word has innumerable associations and many of these tend, in greater
or less degree, to be aroused when the stimulus word is given. In order to succeed with the
test, however, it is necessary to inhibit all associations which are not relevant to the desired
end. The directing idea must be held so firmly in mind that it will really direct the thought
associations. Besides acting to inhibit the irrelevant, it must create a sort of magnetic stress
(to borrow a figure from physics) which will give dominance to those associative tendencies
pointing in the right direction. Even the feeble-minded child of imbecile grade has in his
vocabulary a great many words which rhyme with day, mill, and spring. He fails on the test
because his verbal associations cannot be subjugated to the influence of a directing idea.
The end to be attained does not dominate consciousness sufficiently to create more than a faint
stress. Instead of a single magnetic pole there is a conflict of forces. The result is either
chaos or partial success. Mill may suggest hill, and then perhaps the directing idea becomes
suddenly inoperative and the child gives mountain, valley, or some other irrelevant association.
The lack of associations, however, is a more frequent cause of failure than inability to inhibit
the irrelevant.

If any one supposes that finding rhymes does not draw upon the higher mental powers, let him
try the experiment upon himself in various stages of mental efficiency, say at 9 A.M., when
mentally refreshed by a good night of sleep and again when fatigued and sleepy. Poets questioned
by Galton on this point all testified to the greater difficulty of finding rhymes when mentally
fatigued. In this and in many other respects the mental activities of the fatigued or sleepy
individual approach the type of mentation which is normal to the feeble-minded.

It is important to note that adults make a less favorable showing in this test than normal
children of corresponding mental age, Mr. Knollin's "hoboes" of 12-year intelligence doing
hardly as well as school children of 10-year intelligence. Those who are habitually employed
in school exercises probably acquire an adeptness in verbal associations which is later gradually
lost in the preoccupations of real life.

There has been more disagreement as to the proper location of this test than of any other test
of the Binet scale. Binet placed it in year XII of the 1908 scale, but shifted it to year XV
in 1911. Kuhlmann retains it in year XII, while Goddard drops it down to year XI. However,
when we examine the actual statistics for normal children we do not find very marked disagreement,
and such disagreement as is present can be largely accounted for by variations in procedure
and by differing conclusions drawn from identical data. In the first place, Binet gave but
one trial. This, of course, makes the test much harder than when three trials are given and
only two successes are required. To make one trial equal in difficulty to three trials we should
perhaps need to demand only two rhymes, instead of three, in the one trial. In the second place,
the word used by Binet (obeissance) is much harder than one-syllable words like day, mill,
and spring. Finally, the wide shift of the test from year XII to year XV was not justified
by the statistics of Binet himself, and the figures of Kuhlmann and Goddard are really in exceptionally
close agreement with our own, notwithstanding the fact that Goddard required three successes
instead of two. In four series of tests, considered together, we have found 62 per cent passing
at year IX, 81 per cent at year X, 83 per cent at year XI, and 94 per cent at year XII.

IX, ALTERNATIVE TEST 1: NAMING THE MONTHS

PROCEDURE. Simply ask the subject to "name all the months of the year." Do not start him off
by naming one month; give no look of approval or disapproval as the months are being named,
and make no suggestions or comments of any kind.

When the months have been named, we "check up" the performance by asking: "What month comes
before April?" "What month comes before July?" "What month comes before November?"

SCORING. Passed if the months are named in about fifteen or twenty seconds with no more than
one error of omission, repetition, or displacement, and if two out of the three check questions
are answered correctly. Disregard place of beginning.

REMARKS. Some are inclined to consider this test of little value, because of its supposed dependence
on accidental training. With this opinion we cannot fully agree. The arguments already given
in favor of the retention of naming the days of the week (year VII), apply equally well in
the present case. It has been shown, however, that age, apart from intelligence, does have
some effect on the ability to name the months. Defective adults of 9-year intelligence do about
as well with it as normal children of 10-year intelligence.

The test appears in year X of Binet's 1908 scale and in year IX of the 1911 revision. Goddard
places it correctly in year IX, while Kuhlmann and Bobertag have omitted it.

IX, ALTERNATIVE TEST 2: COUNTING THE VALUE OF STAMPS

PROCEDURE. Place before the subject a cardboard on which are pasted three 1-cent and three
2-cent stamps arranged as follows: 111222. Be sure to lay the card so that the stamps will
be right side up for the child. Say: "You know, of course, how much a stamp like this costs
(pointing to a 1-cent stamp). And you know how much one like this costs (pointing to a 2-cent
stamp). Now, how much money would it take to buy all these stamps?"

Do not tell the individual values of the stamps if these are not known, for it is a part of
the test to ascertain whether the child's spontaneous curiosity has led him to find out and
remember their values. If the individual values are known, but the first answer is wrong, a
second trial may be given. In such cases, however, it is necessary to be on guard against guessing.

If the child merely names an incorrect sum without saying anything to indicate how he arrived
at his answer, it is well to tell him to figure it up aloud. "Tell me how you got it."

SCORING. Passed if the correct value is given in not over fifteen seconds.

REMARKS. The value of this test may be questioned on two grounds: (1) That it has an ambiguous
significance, since failure to pass it may result either from incorrect addition or from lack
of knowledge of the individual values of the stamps; (2) that familiarity with stamps and their
values is so much a matter of accident and special instruction that the test is not fair.

Both criticisms are in a measure valid. The first, however, applies equally well to a great
many useful intelligence tests. In fact, it is only a minority in which success depends on
but one factor. The other criticism has less weight than would at first appear. While it is,
of course, not impossible for an intelligent child to arrive at the age of 9 years without
having had reasonable opportunity to learn the cost of the common postage stamps, the fact
is that a large majority have had the opportunity and that most of those of normal intelligence
have taken advantage of it. It is necessary once more to emphasize the fact that in its method
of locating a test the Binet system makes ample allowance for "accidental" failures.

Like the tests of naming coins, repeating the names of the days of the week or the months of
the year, giving the date, tying a bow-knot, distinguishing right and left, naming the colors,
etc., this one also throws light on the child's spontaneous interest in common objects. It
is mainly the children of deficient intellectual curiosity who do not take the trouble to learn
these things at somewhere near the expected age.

The test was located in year VIII of the Binet scale. However, Binet used coins, three single
and three double sous. Since we do not have either a half-cent or a 2-cent coin, it has been
necessary to substitute postage stamps. This changes the nature of the test and makes it much
harder. It becomes less a test of ability to do a simple sum, and more a test of knowledge
as to the value of the stamps used. That the test is easy enough for year VIII when it can
be given in the original form is indicated by all the French, German, and English statistics
available, but four separate series of Stanford tests agree in finding it too hard for year VIII
when stamps are substituted and the test is carried out according to the procedure described above.

CHAPTER XVI

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR X

X, 1. VOCABULARY (THIRTY DEFINITIONS, 5400 WORDS)

PROCEDURE AND SCORING AS IN VIII, 6. At year X, thirty words should be correctly defined.

X, 2. DETECTING ABSURDITIES

PROCEDURE. Say to the child: "I am going to read a sentence which has something foolish in
it, some nonsense. I want you to listen carefully and tell me what is foolish about it." Then
read the sentences, rather slowly and in a matter-of-fact voice, saying after each: "What is
foolish about that?" The sentences used are the following:--

  (a) "A man said: 'I know a road from my house to the city which
      is downhill all the way to the city and downhill all the way
      back home.'"
  (b) "An engineer said that the more cars he had on his train the
      faster he could go."
  (c) "Yesterday the police found the body of a girl cut into
      eighteen pieces. They believe that she killed herself."
  (d) "There was a railroad accident yesterday, but it was not very
      serious. Only forty-eight people were killed."
  (e) "A bicycle rider, being thrown from his bicycle in an
      accident, struck his head against a stone and was instantly
      killed. They picked him up and carried him to the hospital,
      and they do not think he will get well again."

Each should ordinarily be answered within thirty seconds. If the child is silent, the sentence
should be repeated; but no other questions or suggestions of any kind are permissible. Such
questions as "Could the road be downhill both ways?" or, "Do you think the girl could have
killed herself?" would, of course, put the answer in the child's mouth. It is even best to
avoid laughing as the sentence is read.

Owing to the child's limited power of expression it is not always easy to judge from the answer
given whether the absurdity has really been detected or not. In such cases ask him to explain
himself, using some such formula as: "I am not sure I know what you mean. Explain what you
mean. Tell me what is foolish in the sentence I read." This usually brings a reply the correctness
or incorrectness of which is more apparent, while at the same time the formula is so general
that it affords no hint as to the correct answer. Additional questions must be used with extreme
caution.

SCORING. Passed if the absurdity is detected in four out of the five statements. The following
are samples of satisfactory and unsatisfactory answers:--

(a) The road downhill

    Satisfactory. "If it was downhill to the city it would be
    uphill coming back." "It can't be downhill both directions."
    "That could not be." "That is foolish. (Explain.) Because it
    must be uphill one way or the other." "That would be a funny
    road. (Explain.) No road can be like that. It can't be downhill
    both ways."

    Unsatisfactory. "Perhaps he took a little different road
    coming back." "I guess it is a very crooked road." "Coming back
    he goes around the hill." "The man lives down in a valley." "The
    road was made that way so it would be easy." "Just a road. I
    don't see anything foolish." "He should say, 'a road which
    goes.'"

(b) What the engineer said

    Satisfactory. "If he has more cars he will go slower." "It is
    the other way. If he wants to go faster he mustn't have so many
    cars." "The man didn't mean what he said, or else it was a slip
    of the tongue." "That's the way it would be if he was going
    downhill." "Foolish, because the cars don't help pull the
    train." "He ought to say slower, not faster."

    Unsatisfactory. "A long train is nicer." "The engine pulls
    harder if the train has lots of cars." "That's all right. I
    suppose he likes a big train." "Nothing foolish; when I went to
    the city I saw a train that had lots of cars and it was going
    awfully fast." "He should have said, 'the faster I can run.'"

(c) The girl who was thought to have killed herself

    Satisfactory. "She could not have cut herself into eighteen
    pieces." "She would have been dead before that." "She might have
    cut two or three pieces off, but she couldn't do the rest."
    (Laughing) "Well, she may have killed herself; but if she did
    it's a sure thing that some one else came along after and
    chopped her up." "That policeman must have been a fool.
    (Explain.) To think that she could chop herself into eighteen
    pieces."

    Unsatisfactory. "Think that she killed herself; they know
    she did." "They can't be sure. Some one may have killed her."
    "It was a foolish girl to kill herself." "How can they tell who
    killed her?" "No girl would kill herself unless she was crazy."
    "It ought to read: 'They think that she committed suicide.'"

(d) The railroad accident

    Satisfactory. "That was very serious." "I should like to know
    what you would call a serious accident!" "You could say it was
    not serious if two or three people were killed, but
    forty-eight,--that is serious."

    Unsatisfactory. "It was a foolish mistake that made the
    accident." "They couldn't help it. It was an accident." "It
    might have been worse." "Nothing foolish; it's just sad."

(e) The bicycle rider

    Satisfactory. "How could he get well after he was already
    killed?" "Why, he's already dead." "No use to take a dead man to
    the hospital." "They ought to have taken him to a grave-yard!"

    Unsatisfactory. "Foolish to fall off of a bicycle. He should
    have known how to ride." "They ought to have carried him home.
    (Why?) So his folks could get a doctor." "He should have been
    more careful." "Maybe they can cure him if he isn't hurt very
    bad." "There's nothing foolish in that."

REMARKS. The detection of absurdities is one of the most ingenious and serviceable tests of
the entire scale. It is little influenced by schooling, and it comes nearer than any other
to being a test of that species of mother-wit which we call common sense. Like the "comprehension
questions," it may be called a test of judgment, using this term in the colloquial and not
in the logical sense. The stupid person, whether depicted in literature, proverb, or the ephemeral
joke column, is always (and justly, it would seem) characterized by a huge tolerance for absurd
contradictions and by a blunt sensitivity for the fine points of a joke. Intellectual discrimination
and judgment are inferior. The ideas do not cross-light each other, but remain relatively isolated.
Hence, the most absurd contradictions are swallowed, so to speak, without arousing the protest
of the critical faculty. The latter, indeed, is only a name for the tendency of intellectually
irreconcilable elements to clash. If there is no clash, if the elements remain apart, it goes
without saying that there will be no power of criticism.

The critical faculty begins its development in the early years and strengthens pari passu with
the growing wealth of inter-associations among ideas; but in the average child it is not until
the age of about 10 years that it becomes equal to tasks like those presented in this test.
Eight-year intelligence hardly ever scores more than two or three correct answers out of five.
By 12, the critical ability has so far developed that the test is nearly always passed. It
is an invaluable test for the higher grades of mental deficiency.

As a test of the critical powers Binet first used "trap questions"; as, for example, "Is snow
red or black?" The results were disappointing, for it was found that owing to timidity, deference,
and suggestibility normal children often failed on such questions. Deference is more marked
in normal than in feeble-minded children, and it is because of the influence of this trait
that it is necessary always to forewarn the subject that the sentence to be given contains
nonsense.

Binet located the test in year XI of the 1908 scale, but changed it to year X in 1911. Goddard
and Kuhlmann retain it in year XI. The large majority of the statistics, including those of
Goddard and Kuhlmann, warrant the location of the test in year X. Not all have used the same
absurdities, and these have not been worded uniformly. Most have required three successes out
of five, but Bobertag and Kuhlmann require three out of four; Bobertag's procedure is also
different in that he does not forewarn the child that an absurdity is to follow.

The present form of the test is the result of three successive refinements. It will be noted
that we have made two substitutions in Binet's list of absurdities. Those omitted from the
original scale are: "I have three brothers--Paul, Ernest, and myself," and, "If I were going
to commit suicide I would not choose Friday, because Friday is an unlucky day and would bring
me misfortune." The last has a puzzling feature which makes it much too hard for year X, and
the other is objectionable with children who are accustomed to hear a foreign language in which
the form of expression used in the absurdity is idiomatically correct.

The two we have substituted for these objectionable absurdities are, "The road downhill" and
"What the engineer said." The five we have used, though of nearly equal difficulty, are here
listed in the order from easiest to hardest. Our series as a whole is slightly easier than Binet's.

X, 3. DRAWING DESIGNS FROM MEMORY

PROCEDURE. Use the designs shown on the accompanying printed form. If copies are used they
must be exact in size and shape. Before showing the card say: "This card has two drawings on
it. I am going to show them to you for ten seconds, then I will take the card away and let
you draw from memory what you have seen. Examine both drawings carefully and remember that
you have only ten seconds."

Provide pencil and paper and then show the card for ten seconds, holding it at right angles
to the child's line of vision and with the designs in the position given in the plate. Have
the child draw the designs immediately after they are removed from sight.

SCORING. The test is passed if one of the designs is reproduced correctly and the other about
half correctly. "Correctly" means that the essential plan of the design has been grasped and
reproduced. Ordinary irregularities due to lack of motor skill or to hasty execution are disregarded.
"Half correctly" means that some essential part of the design has been omitted or misplaced,
or that parts have been added.

The sample reproductions shown on the scoring card will serve as a guide. It will be noted
that an inverted design, or one whose right and left sides have been transposed, is counted
only half correct, however perfect it many be in other respects; also that design b is counted
only half correct if the inner rectangle is not located off center.

REMARKS. Binet states that the main factors involved in success are "attention, visual memory,
and a little analysis." The power of rapid analysis would seem to be the most important, for
if the designs are analyzed they may be reproduced from a verbal memory of the analysis. Without
some analysis it would hardly be possible to remember the designs at all, as one of them contains
thirteen lines and the other twelve. The memory span for unrelated objects is far too limited
to permit us to grasp and retain that number of unrelated impressions. Success is possible
only by grouping the lines according to their relationships, so that several of them are given
a unitary value and remembered as one. In this manner, the design to the right, which is composed
of twelve lines, may be reduced to four elements: (1) The outer rectangle; (2) the inner rectangle;
(3) the off-center position of the inner rectangle; and (4) the joining of the angles. Of course
the child does not ordinarily make an analysis as explicit as this; but analysis of some kind,
even though it be unconscious, is necessary to success.

Ability to pass the test indicates the presence, in a certain definite amount, of the tendency
for the contents of consciousness to fuse into a meaningful whole. Failure indicates that the
elements have maintained their unitary character or have fused inadequately. It is seen, therefore,
that the test has a close kinship with the test of memory for sentences. The latter, also,
permits the fusion or grouping of impressions according to meaning, with the result that five
or six times as many meaningful syllables as nonsense syllables or digits can be retained.

Binet had many more failures on design a than on design b. This was probably due to the fact
that he showed the designs with our b to the left. A majority of subjects, probably because
of the influence of reading habits, examine first the figure to the left, and because of the
short time allowed for the inspection are unable to devote much time to the design at the right.
We have placed the design of greater intrinsic difficulty at the left, with the result that
the failures are almost equally divided between the two.

Binet used this test in his unstandardized series of 1905, omitted it in 1908, but included
it in the 1911 revision, locating it in year X. Except for Goddard, who recommends year XI,
there is rather general agreement that the test belongs at year X. Our own data show that it
may be placed either at year X or year XI, according as the grading is rigid or lenient.

X, 4. READING FOR EIGHT MEMORIES

MATERIAL. We use Binet's selection, slightly adapted, as follows:--

    New York, September 5th. A fire last night burned three houses
    near the center of the city. It took some time to put it out.
    The loss was fifty thousand dollars, and seventeen families lost
    their homes. In saving a girl, who was asleep in a bed, a
    fireman was burned on the hands.

The copy of the selection used by the subject should be printed in heavy type and should not
contain the bars dividing it into memories. The Stanford record booklet contains the selection
in two forms, one suitable for use in scoring, the other in heavy type to be read by the subject.

PROCEDURE. Hand the selection to the subject, who should be seated comfortably in a good light,
and say: "I want you to read this for me as nicely as you can." The subject must read aloud.

Pronounce all the words which the subject is unable to make out, not allowing more than five
seconds' hesitation in such a case.

Record all errors made in reading the selection, and the exact time. By "error" is meant the
omission, substitution, transposition, or mispronunciation of one word.

The subject is not warned in advance that he will be asked to report what he has read, but
as soon as he has finished reading, put the selection out of sight and say: "Very well done.
Now, I want you to tell me what you read. Begin at the first and tell everything you can remember."
After the subject has repeated everything he can recall and has stopped, say: "And what else?
Can you remember any more of it?" Give no other aid of any kind. It is of course not permissible,
when the child stops, to prompt him with such questions as, "And what next? Where were the
houses burned? What happened to the fireman?" etc. The report must be spontaneous.

Now and then, though not often, a subject hesitates or even refuses to try, saying he is unable
to do it. Perhaps he has misunderstood the request and thinks he is expected to repeat the
selection word for word, as in the tests of memory for sentences. We urge a little and repeat:
"Tell me in your own words all you can remember of it." Others misunderstand in a different
way, and thinking they are expected to tell merely what the story is about, they say: "It was
about some houses that burned." In such cases we repeat the instructions with special emphasis
on the words all you can remember.

SCORING. The test is passed if the selection is read in thirty-five seconds with not more than
two errors, and if the report contains at least eight "memories." By underscoring the memories
correctly reproduced, and by interlineations to show serious departures from the text, the
record can be made complete with a minimum of trouble.

The main difficulty in scoring is to decide whether a memory has been reproduced correctly
enough to be counted. Absolutely literal reproduction is not expected. The rule is to count
all memories whose thought is reproduced with only minor changes in the wording. "It took quite
a while" instead of "it took some time" is satisfactory; likewise, "got burnt" for "was burned";
"who was sleeping" for "who was asleep"; "are homeless" for "lost their homes"; "in the middle"
for "near the center"; "a big fire" for "a fire," etc.

Memories as badly mutilated as the following, however, are not counted: "A lot of buildings"
for "three houses;" "a man" for "a fireman"; "who was sick" for "who was asleep"; etc. Occasionally
we may give half credit, as in the case of "was seventeen thousand dollars" for "was fifty
thousand dollars"; "and fifteen families" for "and seventeen families," etc.

REMARKS. Are we warranted in using at all as a measure of intelligence a test which depends
as much on instruction as this one does? Many are inclined to answer this question in the negative.
The test has been omitted from the revisions of Goddard, Kuhlmann, and Binet himself. As regards
Binet's earlier test of reading for two memories, in year VIII, there could hardly be any difference
of opinion. The ability to read at that age depends so much on the accident of environment
that the test is meaningless unless we know all about the conditions which have surrounded
the child.

The use of the test in year X, however, is a very different matter. There are comparatively
few children of that age who will fail to pass it for lack of the requisite school instruction.
Children of 10 years who have attended school with reasonable regularity for three years are
practically always able to read the selection in thirty-five seconds and without over two mistakes
unless they are retarded almost to the border-line of mental deficiency. Of our 10-year-olds
who failed to meet the test, only a fourth did so because of inability to meet the reading
requirements as regards time or mistakes. The remaining failures were caused by inadequate
report, and most of these subjects were of the distinctly retarded group.

We may conclude, therefore, that given anything approaching normal educational advantages,
the test is really a measure of intelligence. Used with due caution, it is perhaps as valuable
as any other test in the scale. It is only necessary, in case of failure, to ascertain the
facts regarding the child's educational opportunities. Even this precaution is superfluous
in case the subject tests as low as 8 years by the remainder of the scale. A safe rule is to
omit the test from the calculation of mental age if the subject has not attended school the
equivalent of two or three years.

It has been contended by some that tests in which success depends upon language mastery cannot
be real tests of intelligence. By such critics language tests have been set over against intelligence
tests as contrasting opposites. It is easy to show, however, that this view is superficial
and psychologically unsound. Every one who has an acquaintance with the facts of mental growth
knows that language mastery of some degree is the sine qua non of conceptual thinking. Language
growth, in fact, mirrors the entire mental development. There are few more reliable indications
of a subject's stage of intellectual maturity than his mastery of language.

The rate of reading, for example, is a measure of the rate of association. Letters become associated
together in certain combinations making words, words into word groups and sentences. Recognition
is for the most part an associative process. Rapid and accurate association will mean ready
recognition of the printed form. Since language units (whether letters, words, or word groups)
have more or less preferred associations according to their habitual arrangement into larger
units, it comes about that in the normal mind under normal conditions these preferred sequences
arouse the apperceptive complex necessary to make a running recognition rapid and easy. It
is reasonable to suppose that in the subnormal mind the habitual common associations are less
firmly fixed, thus diminishing the effectiveness of the ever-changing apperceptive expectancy.
Reading is, therefore, largely dependent on what James calls the "fringe of consciousness"
and the "consciousness of meaning." In reading connected matter, every unit is big with a mass
of tendencies. The smaller and more isolated the unit, the greater is the number of possibilities.
Every added unit acts as a modifier limiting the number of tendencies, until we have finally,
in case of a large mental unit, a fairly manageable whole. When the most logical and suitable
of these associations arise easily from subconsciousness to consciousness, recognition is made
easy, and their doing so will depend on whether the habitual relations of the elements have
left permanent traces in the mind.

The reading of the subnormal subject bears a close analogy to the reading of nonsense matter
by the normal person. It has been ascertained by experiment that such reading requires about
twice as much time as the reading of connected matter. This is true for the reason that out
of thousands of associations possible with each word, no particular association is favored.
The apperceptive expectancy, practically nil in the reading of nonsense material, must be decidedly
deficient in all poor reading.

Furthermore, in the case of the ordinary reader there is a feeling of rightness or wrongness
about the thought sequences. That less intelligent subjects have this sense of fitness to a
much less degree is evidenced by their passing over words so mutilated in pronunciation as
to deprive them of all meaning. The transposition of letters and words, and the failure to
observe marks of punctuation, point to the same thing. In other words, all the reading of the
stupid subject is with material which to him is more or less nonsensical.[66]

[66] See "Genius and Stupidity," by Lewis M. Terman, in Pedagogical Seminary, September, 1906,
p. 340 ff.

A little observation will convince one that mentally retarded subjects, even when they possess
a reasonable degree of fluency in recognizing printed words, do not sense shades of meaning.
Their reading is by small units. Words and phrases do not fuse into one mental content, but
remain relatively unconnected. The expression is monotonous and the voice has more of the unnatural
"schoolroom" pitch. They read more slowly, more often misplace the emphasis, and miscall more
words. In short, one who has psychological insight and is acquainted with reading standards
can easily detect the symptoms of intellectual inferiority by hearing a dull subject read a
brief selection.

The giving of memories is also significant. Feeble-minded adults who have been well schooled
are sometimes able to read the words of the text fairly fluently, but are usually unable to
give more than a scanty report of what has been read. The scope of attention has been exhausted
in the mere recognition and pronouncing of words. In general, the greater the mechanical difficulties
which a subject encounters, the less adequate is his report of memories.

The test has, however, one real fault. School children have a certain advantage in it over
older persons of the same mental age whose school experience is less recent. Adult subjects
tend to give their report in less literal form. It is necessary, therefore, to give credit
for the reproduction of the ideas of the passage rather than for strictly literal "memories."

The selection we have used is, with minor changes, the same as Binet's. His selection was divided
into nineteen memories. The one here given has twenty-one memories. Binet used the test both
in year VIII and year IX, requiring two memories at year VIII and six memories at year IX.
When we require eight memories, as we have done, the test becomes difficult enough for non-selected
school children of 10 years. Location in year X seems preferable, because it insures that the
child will almost certainly have had the schooling requisite for learning to read a selection
of this difficulty, even if he has started to school at a later age than is customary. Naturally,
placing the test higher in the scale makes it more a test of report and less a test of ability
to recognize and pronounce printed words.

X, 5.

The PROCEDURE is the same as for the previous comprehension tests. Each question may be repeated,
but its form must not be changed. It is not permissible to make any explanation whatever as
to the meaning of the question, except to substitute beginning for undertaking when (b) seems
not to be comprehended.

SCORING. Two out of the three questions must be answered satisfactorily. Study of the following
classified responses should make scoring fairly easy in most cases:--

(a) When some one asks your opinion

    Satisfactory. "I would say I don't know him very well"
    (42 per cent of the correct answers). "Tell him what I know and
    no more" (34 per cent of correct answers). "I would say that I'd
    rather not express any opinion about him" (20 per cent of the
    correct answers). "Tell him to ask some one else." "I would not
    express any opinion."

    Unsatisfactory. Unsatisfactory responses are due either to
    failure to grasp the import of the question, or to inability to
    suggest the appropriate action demanded by the situation.

    The latter form of failure is the more common; e.g.: "I'd say
    they are nice." "Say you like them." "Say what I think." "Say
    it's none of their business." "Tell them I mind my own
    business." "Say I would get acquainted with them." "Say that I
    don't talk about people." "Say I didn't know how he looked."
    "Tell them you ought not to say such things; you might get into
    trouble." "I wouldn't say anything." "I would try to answer."
    "Say I did not know his name," etc.

    The following are samples of failure due to mistaking the import
    of the question: "I'd say, 'How do you do?'" "Say,'I'm glad to
    meet you.'"

(b) Before undertaking something important

    Satisfactory responses fall into the following classes:--
    (1) Brief statement of preliminary consideration; as: "Think
        about it." "Look it over." "Plan it all out." "Make your
        plans." "Stop and think," etc.
    (2) Special emphasis on preliminary preparation and correct
        procedure; as: "Find out the best way to do it." "Find out
        what it is." "Get everything ready." "Do every little thing
        that would help you." "Get all the details you can." "Take
        your time and figure it out," etc.
    (3) Asking help; as: "Ask some one to help you who knows all
        about it." "Pray, if you are a Christian." "Ask advice,"
        etc.
    (4) Preliminary testing of ability, self-analysis, etc.; as:
        "Try something easier first." "Practice and make sure I
        could do it." "Learn how to do it," etc.
    (5) Consider the wisdom or propriety of doing it: "Think whether
        it would be best to do it." "See whether it would be
        possible."

    About 65 per cent of the correct responses belong either to
    group (1) or (2), about 20 per cent to group (3), and most of
    the remainder to group (4).

    Unsatisfactory responses are of the following types:--
    (1) Due to mistaking the import of the question; e.g.: "Ask for
        it." "Ought to say please." "Ask whose it is." Replies of
        this kind can be nearly all eliminated by repeating the
        question, using beginning instead of undertaking.
    (2) Replies more or less absurd or irrelevant; as: "Promise to
        do your best." "Wash your face and hands." "Get a lot of
        insurance." "Dress up and take a walk." "Tell your name."
        "Know whether it's correct." "Begin at the beginning." "Say
        you will do it." "See if it's a fake." "Go to school a long
        time." "Pass an examination." "Do what is right." "Add up
        and see how much it will cost." "Say I would do it." "Just
        start doing it." "Go away." "Consult a doctor." "See if you
        have time," etc.

(c) Why we should judge a person more by his actions than by his words

    Satisfactory responses fall into the following classes:--
    (1) Words and deeds both mentioned and contrasted in
        reliability; as: "Actions speak louder than words" (this in
        8 per cent of successes). "You can tell more by his actions
        than by his words." "He might talk nice and do bad things."
        "Sometimes people say things and don't do them." "It's not
        what you say but what you do that counts." "Talk is cheap;
        when he does a thing you can believe it." "People don't do
        everything they say." "A man might steal but talk like a
        nice man." Over 45 per cent of all correct responses belong
        to group (1).
    (2) Acts stressed without mention of words; as: "You can tell by
        his actions whether he is good or not." "If he acts nice
        he is nice." "Actions show for themselves." Group (2)
        contains about 25 per cent of the correct responses.
    (3) Emphasis on unreliability of words; as: "You can't tell by
        his words, he might lie or boast." "Because you can't always
        believe what people say." (Group (3) contains 15 per cent of
        the correct responses.)
    (4) Responses which state that a man's deeds are sometimes
        better than his words; as: "He might talk ugly and still not
        do bad things." "Some really kind-hearted people scold and
        swear." "A man's words may be worse than his deeds," etc.
        Group (4) contains over 10 per cent of the correct
        responses.

    Unsatisfactory responses are usually due to inability to
    comprehend the meaning of the question. If there is a complete
    lack of comprehension the result is either silence or a totally
    irrelevant response. If there is partial comprehension of the
    question the response may be partially relevant, but fail to
    make the expected distinction.

    The following are sample failures: "You could tell by his words
    that he was educated." "It shows he is polite if he acts nice."
    "Sometimes people aren't polite." "Actions show who he might
    be." "Acts may be foolish." "Words ain't right." "A man might be
    dumb." "A fellow don't know what he says." "Some people can
    talk, but don't have control of themselves." "You can tell by
    his acts whether he goes with bad people." "If he doesn't act
    right you know he won't talk right." "Actions show if he has
    manners." "Might get embarrassed and not talk good." "He may not
    know how to express his thoughts." "He might be a rich man but a
    poor talker." "He might say the wrong thing and afterwards be
    sorry for it," etc. (The last four are nearer correct than the
    others, but they fall just short of expressing the essential
    contrast.)

REMARKS. For discussion of the comprehension questions as a test of intelligence, see page 158.

Binet used eight questions, three "easy" and five "difficult," and required that five out of
eight be answered correctly in year X. The eight were as follows:--

  (1) What to do when you have missed your train.
  (2) When you have been struck by a playmate, etc.
  (3) When you have broken something, etc.
  (4) When about to be late for school.
  (5) When about to undertake something important.
  (6) Why excuse a bad act committed in anger more readily than a bad
      act committed without anger.
  (7) What to do if some one asks your opinion, etc.
  (8) Why can you judge a person better by his actions, etc.

As we have shown, questions 1, 2, 3, and 4 are much too easy for year X. Question 6 is hard
enough for year XII. We have omitted it because it was not needed and is not entirely satisfactory.

X, 6. NAMING SIXTY WORDS

PROCEDURE. Say: "Now, I want to see how many different words you can name in three minutes.
When I say ready, you must begin and name the words as fast as you can, and I will count them.
Do you understand? Be sure to do your very best, and remember that just any words will do,
like 'clouds,' 'dog,' 'chair,' 'happy'--Ready; go ahead!"

The instructions may be repeated if the subject does not understand what is wanted. As a rule
the task is comprehended instantly and entered into with great zest.

Do not stare at the child, and do not say anything as the test proceeds unless there is a pause
of fifteen seconds. In this event say: "Go ahead, as fast as you can. Any words will do." Repeat
this urging after every pause of fifteen seconds.

Some subjects, usually rather intelligent ones, hit upon the device of counting or putting
words together in sentences. We then break in with: "Counting (or sentences, as the case may
be) not allowed. You must name separate words. Go ahead."

Record the individual words if possible, and mark the end of each half-minute. If the words
are named so rapidly that they cannot be taken down, it is easy to keep the count by making
a pencil stroke for each word. If the latter method is employed, repeated words may be indicated
by making a cross instead of a single stroke. Always make record of repetitions.

SCORING. The test is passed if sixty words, exclusive of repetitions, are named in three minutes.
It is not allowable to accept twenty words in one minute or forty words in two minutes as an
equivalent of the expected score. Only real words are counted.

REMARKS. Scoring, as we have seen, takes account only of the number of words. It is instructive,
however, to note the kind of words given. Some subjects, more often those of the 8- or 9-year
intelligence level, give mainly isolated, detached words. As well stated by Binet, "Little
children exhaust an idea in naming it. They say, for example, hat, and then pass on to another
word without noticing that hats differ in color, in form, have various parts, different uses
and accessories, and that in enumerating all these they could find a large number of words."

Others quickly take advantage of such relationships and name many parts of an object before
leaving it, or name a number of other objects belonging to the same class. Hat, for example,
suggests cap, hood, coat, shirt, shoes, stockings, etc. Pencil suggests book, slate, paper,
desk, ink, map, school-yard, teacher, etc. Responses of this type may be made up of ten or
a dozen plainly distinct word groups.

Another type of response consists in naming only objects present, or words which present objects
immediately suggest. It is unfortunate that this occurs, since rooms in which testing is done
vary so much with respect to furnishings. The subject who chooses this method is obviously
handicapped if the room is relatively bare. One way to avoid this influence is to have all
subjects name the words with eyes closed, but the distraction thus caused is sometimes rather
disturbing. It is perhaps best for the present to adhere to the original procedure, and to
follow the rule of making tests in a room containing few furnishings in addition to the necessary
table and chairs.

A fourth type of response is that including a large proportion of unusual or abstract words.
This is the best of all, and is hardly ever found except with subjects who are above the 11-year
intelligence level.

It goes without saying that a response need not belong entirely to any one of the above types.
Most responses, in fact, are characterized by a mixture of two or three of the types, one of
them perhaps being dominant.

Though not without its shortcomings, the test is interesting and valuable. Success in it does
not, as one might suppose, depend solely upon the size of the vocabulary. Even 8-year-olds
ordinarily know the meaning of more than 3000 words, and by 10 years the vocabulary usually
exceeds 5000 words, or eighty times as many as the child is expected to name in three minutes.
The main factors in success are two, (1) richness and variety of previously made associations
with common words; and (2) the readiness of these associations to reinstate themselves. The
young or the retarded subject fishes in the ocean of his vocabulary with a single hook, so
to speak. He brings up each time only one word. The subject endowed with superior intelligence
employs a net (the idea of a class, for example) and brings up a half-dozen words or more.
The latter accomplishes a greater amount and with less effort; but it requires intelligence
and will power to avoid wasting time with detached words.

One is again and again astonished at the poverty of associations which this test discloses
with retarded subjects. For twenty or thirty seconds such children may be unable to think of
a single word. It would be interesting if at such periods we could get a glimpse into the subject's
consciousness. There must be some kind of mental content, but it seems too vague to be crystallized
in words. The ready association of thoughts with definite words connotes a relatively high
degree of intellectual advancement. Language forms are the short-hand of thought; without facile
command of language, thinking is vague, clumsy, and ineffective. Conversely, vague mental content
entails language shortage.

Occasionally a child of 11- or 12-year intelligence will make a poor showing in this test.
When this happens it is usually due either to excessive embarrassment or to a strange persistence
in running down all the words of a given class before launching out upon a new series. Occasionally,
too, an intelligent subject wastes time in thinking up a beautiful list of big or unusual words.
As stated by Bobertag, success is favored by a certain amount of "intellectual nonchalance,"
a willingness to ignore sense and a readiness to break away from a train of associations as
soon as the "point of diminishing returns" has been reached. This doubtless explains why adults
sometimes make such a surprisingly poor showing in the test. They have less "intellectual nonchalance"
than children, are less willing to subordinate such considerations as completeness and logical
connection to the demands of speed. Knollin's unemployed men of 12- to 13-year intelligence
succeeded no better than school children of the 10-year level.

We do not believe, however, that this fault is serious enough to warrant the elimination of
the test. The fact is that in a large majority of cases the score which it yields agrees fairly
closely with the result of the scale as a whole. Subjects more than a year or two below the
mental age of 10 years seldom succeed. Those more than a year or two above the 10-year level
seldom fail.

There is another reason why the test should be retained, it often has significance beyond that
which appears in the mere number of words given. The naming of unusual and abstract words is
an instance of this. An unusually large number of repetitions has symptomatic significance
in the other direction. It indicates a tendency to mental stereotypy, so frequently encountered
in testing the feeble-minded. The proportion of repetitions made by normal children of the
10- or 11-year intelligence level rarely exceeds 2 or 3 per cent of the total number of words
named; those of older retarded children of the same level occasionally reach 6 or 8 per cent.

It is conceivable, of course, that a more satisfactory test of this general nature could be
devised; such, for example, as having the subject name all the words he can of a given class
(four-footed animals, things to eat, articles of household furniture, trees, birds, etc.).
The main objection to this form of the test is that the performance would in all probability
be more influenced by environment and formal instruction than is the case with the test of
naming sixty words.

One other matter remains to be mentioned; namely, the relative number of words named in the
half-minute periods. As would be expected, the rate of naming words decreases as the test proceeds.
In the case of the 10-year-olds, we find the average number of words for the six successive
half-minutes to be as follows:--

    18, 12½, 10½, 9, 8½, 7.

Some subjects maintain an almost constant rate throughout the test, others rapidly exhaust
themselves, while a very few make a bad beginning and improve as they go. As a rule it is only
the very intelligent who improve after the first half-minute. On the other hand, mentally retarded
subjects and very young normals exhaust themselves so quickly that only a few words are named
in the last minute.

Binet first located this test in year XI, but shifted it to year XII in 1911. Goddard and Kuhlmann
retain it in year XI, though Goddard's statistics suggest year X as the proper location, and
Kuhlmann's even suggest year IX. Kuhlmann, however, accepts fifty words as satisfactory in
case the response contains a considerable proportion of abstract or unusual words. All the
American statistics except Rowe's agree in showing that the test is easy enough for year X.

X, ALTERNATIVE TEST 1: REPEATING SIX DIGITS

The digit series used are 3-7-4-8-5-9; and 5-2-1-7-4-6.

The PROCEDURE and SCORING are the same as in VII, 3, except that only two trials are given,
one of which must be correct. The test is somewhat too easy for year 10 when three trials are
given.

The test of repeating six digits did not appear in the Binet scale and seems not to have been
standardized until inserted in the Stanford series.

X, ALTERNATIVE TEST 2: REPEATING TWENTY TO TWENTY-TWO SYLLABLES

The sentences for this year are:--

  (a) "The apple tree makes a cool, pleasant shade on the ground
      where the children are playing."
  (b) "It is nearly half-past one o'clock; the house is very
      quiet and the cat has gone to sleep."
  (c) "In summer the days are very warm and fine; in winter it
      snows and I am cold."

PROCEDURE and SCORING exactly as in VI, 6.

REMARKS. It is interesting to note that five years of mental growth are required to pass from
the ability to repeat sixteen or eighteen syllables (year VI) to the ability to repeat twenty
or twenty-two syllables. Similarly in memory for digits. Five digits are almost as easy at
year VII as six at year X. Two explanations are available: (1) The increased difficulty may
be accounted for by a relatively slow growth of memory power after the age of 6 or 7 years;
or (2) the increase in difficulty may be real, expressing an inner law as to the behavior of
the memory span in dealing with material of increasing length. Both factors are probably involved.

This is another of the Stanford additions to the scale. Average children of 10 years ordinarily
pass it, but older, retarded children of 10-year mental age make a poorer showing. In the case
of mentally retarded adults, especially, the verbal memory is less exact than that of school
children of the same mental age.

X, ALTERNATIVE TEST 3: CONSTRUCTION PUZZLE A (HEALY AND FERNALD)

MATERIAL. Use the form-board pictured on page 279. This may be purchased of C. H. Stoelting
& Co., Chicago, Illinois. A home-made one will do as well if care is taken to get the dimensions
exact. Quarter-inch wood should be used.

PROCEDURE. Place the frame on the table before the subject, the short side nearest him. The
blocks are placed in an irregular position on the side of the frame away from the subject.
Take care that the board with the blocks in place is not exposed to view in advance of the
experiment.

Say: "I want you to put these blocks in this frame so that all the space will be filled up.
If you do it rightly they will all fit in and there will be no space left over. Go ahead."

Do not tell the subject to see how quickly he can do it. Say nothing that would even suggest
hurrying, for this tends to call forth the trial-and-error procedure even with intelligent
subjects.

SCORING. The test is passed if the child succeeds in fitting the blocks into place three times
in a total time of five minutes for the three trials.

The method of procedure is fully as important as the time, but is not so easily scored in quantitative
terms. Nevertheless, the examiner should always take observations on the method employed, noting
especially any tendency to make and to repeat moves which lead to obvious impossibilities;
i.e., moves which leave a space obviously unfitted to any of the remaining pieces. Some subjects
repeat an absurd move many times over; others make an absurd move, but promptly correct it;
others, and these are usually the bright ones, look far enough ahead to avoid error altogether.

REMARKS. This test was devised by Professor Freeman, was adapted slightly by Healy and Fernald,
and was first standardized by Dr. Kuhlmann. Miss Gertrude Hall has also standardized it, but
on a different procedure from that described above.[67]

[67] Eugenics and Social Welfare Bulletin, No. 5, The State Board of Charities, Albany, New York.

The test has a lower correlation with intelligence than most of the other tests of the scale.
Many bright children of 10-year intelligence adopt the trial-and-error method and have little
success, while retarded older children of only 8-year intelligence sometimes succeed. Age,
apart from intelligence, seems to play an important part in determining the nature of the performance.
A favorable feature of the test, however, is the fact that it makes no demand on language ability
and that it brings into play an aspect of intelligence which is relatively neglected by the
remainder of the scale. For this reason it is at least worth keeping as an alternative test.

CHAPTER XVII

INSTRUCTIONS FOR YEAR XII

XII, 1. VOCABULARY (FORTY DEFINITIONS, 7200 WORDS)

PROCEDURE and SCORING as in previous vocabulary tests.[68] In this case forty words must be
defined.

[68] See VIII, 6.

XII, 2. DEFINING ABSTRACT WORDS

PROCEDURE. The words to be defined are pity, revenge, charity, envy, and justice. The formula
is, "What is pity? What do we mean by pity?" and so on with the other words. If the meaning
of the response is not clear, ask the subject to explain what he means. If the definition is
in terms of the word itself, as "Pity means to pity someone," "Revenge is to take revenge,"
etc., it is then necessary to say: "Yes, but what does it mean to pity some one?" or, "What
does it mean to take revenge?" etc. Only supplementary questions of this kind are permissible.

SCORING. The test is passed if three of the five words are satisfactorily defined. The definition
need not be strictly logical nor the language elegant. It is sufficient if the definition shows
that the meaning of the word is known. Definitions which define by means of an illustration
are acceptable. The following are samples of satisfactory and unsatisfactory responses:--

(a) Pity

    Satisfactory. "To be sorry for some one." "To feel
    compassion." "To have sympathy for a person." "To feel bad for
    some one." "It means you help a person out and don't like to
    have him suffer." "To have a feeling for people when they are
    treated wrong." "If anybody gets hurt real bad you pity them."
    "It's when you feel sorry for a tramp and give him something to
    eat." "If some one is in trouble and you know how it feels to be
    in that condition, you pity him." "You see something that's
    wrong and have your feeling aroused."

    Of 130 correct responses, 85, or 65 per cent, defined pity as
    "to feel sorry for some one," or words to that effect. Less than
    10 per cent defined by means of illustration.

    Unsatisfactory. "To think of the poor." "To be good to
    others." "To help." "It means sorrow." "Mercy." "To cheer people
    up." "It means 'What a pity!'" "To be ashamed." "To be sick or
    poor." "It's when you break something."

    Apart from inability to reply, which accounts for nearly one
    fourth of the failures, there is no predominant type of
    unsatisfactory response.

(b) Revenge

    Satisfactory. "To get even with some one." "To get back on
    him." "To do something to the one who has done something to
    you." "To hurt them back." "To pay it back," or "Do something
    back." "To do something mean in return." "To square up with a
    person." "When somebody slaps you, you slap back." "You kill a
    person if he does something to you."

    The expression "to get even" was found in 42 per cent of 120
    correct answers; "to pay it back," or "To do something back," in
    20 per cent; "To get back on him," in 17 per cent. About
    8 per cent were illustrations.

    Unsatisfactory. "To be mad." "You try to hurt them." "To
    fight." "You hate a person." "To kill them." "It means hateful."
    "To try again." "To think evil of some one." "To hate some one
    who has done you wrong." "To let a person off." "To go away from
    something."

    Inability to reply accounts for a little over 40 per cent of the
    failures.

(c) Charity

    Satisfactory. "To give to the poor." "To help those who are
    needy." "It is charity if you are poor and somebody helps you."
    "To give to somebody without pay."

    Of 110 correct replies, 72 per cent were worded substantially
    like the first or second given above.

    Unsatisfactory. "A person who helps the poor." "A place where
    poor people get food and things." "It is a good life." "To be
    happy." "To be poor." "Charity is being treated good." "It is to
    be charitable." "Charity is selling something that is not worth
    much." "It means to be good" or "to be kind."

    When the last named response is given, we should say: "Explain
    what you mean." If this brings an amplification of the response
    to "It means to do things for the poor," or the equivalent, the
    score is plus. "Charity means love" is also minus if the
    statement cannot be further explained and is merely rote memory
    of the passage in the 13th chapter of 1st Corinthians. Simply
    "To help" or "To give" is unsatisfactory. Half of the failures
    are due to inability to reply.

(d) Envy

    Satisfactory. "You envy some one who has something you want."
    "It's the way you feel when you see some one with something
    nicer than you have." "It's when a poor girl sees a rich girl
    with nice dresses and things." "You hate some one because
    they've got something you want." "Jealousy" (satisfactory if
    subject can explain what jealousy means; otherwise it is
    minus). "It's when you see a person better off than you are."

    Nearly three fourths of the correct responses say in substance,
    "You envy a person who has something you want." Most of the
    others are concrete illustrations.

    Unsatisfactory. "To hate some one," or simply "To hate." "You
    don't like 'em." "Bad feeling toward any one." "To be a great
    man or woman." "Not to be nice to people." "What we do to our
    enemies."

    Inability to respond accounts for 55 per cent of the failures.

(e) Justice

    Satisfactory. "To give people what they deserve." "It means
    that everybody is treated the same way, whether he is rich or
    poor." "It's what you get when you go to court." "If one does
    something and gets punished, that's justice." "To do the square
    thing." "To give everybody his dues." "Let every one have what's
    coming to him." "To do the right thing by any one." "If two
    people do the same thing and they let one go without punishing,
    that is not justice."

    Approximately 38 per cent of 102 correct responses referred to
    treating everybody the same way; 25 per cent to "doing the
    square thing", 12 per cent were concrete illustrations; and
    4 per cent were definitions of what justice is not.

    Unsatisfactory. "It means to have peace." "It is where they
    have court." "It's the Courthouse." "To be honest." "Where one
    is just" (minus, unless further explained). "To do right"
    (minus, unless in explaining right the subject gives a
    definition of justice).

    It is very necessary, in case of such answers as "Justice is to
    do right," "To be just," etc., that the subject be urged to
    explain further what he means. "To do right" includes nearly
    12 per cent of all answers, and is given by the very brightest
    children. Most of these are able, when urged, to complete the
    definition in a satisfactory manner.

REMARKS. The reader may be surprised that the ability to define common abstract words should
develop so late. Most children who have had anything like ordinary home or school environment
have doubtless heard all of these words countless times before the age of 12 years. Nevertheless,
the statistics from the test show unmistakably that before this age such words have but limited
and vague meaning. Other vocabulary studies confirm this fact so completely that we may say
there is hardly any trait in which 12- to 14-year intelligence more uniformly excels that of
the 9- or 10-year level.

This is readily understandable when we consider the nature of abstract meanings and the intellectual
processes by which we arrive at them. Unlike such words as tree, house, etc., the ideas they
contain are not the immediate result of perceptual processes, in which even childish intelligence
is adept, but are a refined and secondary product of relationships between other ideas. They
require the logical processes of comparison, abstraction, and generalization. One cannot see
justice, for example, but one is often confronted with situations in which justice or injustice
is an element; and given a certain degree of abstraction and generalization, out of such situations
the idea of justice will gradually be evolved.

The formation and use of abstract ideas, of one kind or another, represent, par excellence,
the "higher thought processes." It is not without significance that delinquents who test near
the border-line of mental deficiency show such inferior ability in arriving at correct generalizations
regarding matters of social and moral relationships. We cannot expect a mind of defective generalizing
ability to form very definite or correct notions about justice, law, fairness, ownership rights,
etc.; and if the ideas themselves are not fairly clear, the rules of conduct based upon them
cannot make a very powerful appeal.[69]

[69] See also p. 298 ff.

Binet used the words charity, justice, and kindness, and required two successes. In the 1911
revision he shifted the test from year XI to year XII, where it more nearly belongs. Goddard
also places it in year XII and uses Binet's words, translating bonté, however, as goodness
instead of kindness. Kuhlmann retains the test in year XI and adds bravery and revenge, requiring
three correct definitions out of five. Bobertag uses pity, envy, and justice, requires two
correct definitions, and finds the test just hard enough for year XII.

After using the words goodness and kindness in two series of tests, we have discarded them
as objectionable in that they give rise to so many doubtful definitions. Even intelligent children
often say: "Goodness means to do something good," "Kindness means to be kind to some one,"
etc. These definitions in a circle occur less than half as often with pity, revenge, and envy,
which are also superior to charity and justice in this respect.

The relative difficulty of our five words is indicated by the order in which we have listed
them in the test (i.e., beginning with the easiest and ending with the hardest). On the standard
of three correct definitions, these words fit very accurately in year XII.

XII, 3. THE BALL-AND-FIELD TEST (SUPERIOR PLAN)

PROCEDURE, as in year VIII, test 1.

SCORING. Score 3 (or superior plan) is required for passing in year XII.[70]

[70] See scoring card.

XII, 4. DISSECTED SENTENCES

The following disarranged sentences are used:--

    FOR THE STARTED AN WE COUNTRY EARLY AT HOUR

    TO ASKED PAPER MY TEACHER CORRECT I MY

    A DEFENDS DOG GOOD HIS BRAVELY MASTER

These should be printed in type like that used above. The Stanford record booklet contains
the sentences in convenient form.

It is not permissible to substitute written words or printed script, as that would make the
test harder. All the words should be printed in caps in order that no clue shall be given as
to the first word in a sentence. For a similar reason the period is omitted.

PROCEDURE. Say: "Here is a sentence that has the words all mixed up so that they don't make
any sense. If the words were changed around in the right order they would make a good sentence.
Look carefully and see if you can tell me how the sentence ought to read."

Give the sentences in the order in which they are listed in the record booklet. Do not tell
the subject to see how quickly he can do it, because with this test any suggestion of hurrying
is likely to produce a kind of mental paralysis. If the subject has no success with the first
sentence in one minute, read it off correctly for him, somewhat slowly, and pointing to each
word as it is spoken. Then proceed to the second and third, allowing one minute for each.

Give no further help. It is not permissible, in case an incorrect response is given, to ask
the subject to try again, or to say: "Are you sure that is right?" "Are you sure you have not
left out any words?" etc. Instead, maintain absolute silence. However, the subject is permitted
to make as many changes in his response as he sees fit, provided he makes them spontaneously
and within the allotted time. Record the entire response.

Once in a great while the subject misunderstands the task and thinks the only requirement is
to use all the words given, and that it is permitted to add as many other words as he likes.
It is then necessary to repeat the instructions and to allow a new trial.

SCORING. Two sentences out of three must be correctly given within the minute allotted to each.
It is understood, of course, that if the first sentence has to be read for the subject, both
the other responses must be given correctly.

A sentence is not counted correct if a single word is omitted, altered, or inserted, or if
the order given fails to make perfect sense.

Certain responses are not absolutely incorrect, but are objectionable as regards sentence structure,
or else fail to give the exact meaning intended. These are given half credit. Full credit on
one, and half credit on each of the other two, is satisfactory. The following are samples of
satisfactory and unsatisfactory responses:--

(a)
    Satisfactory.
       "We started for the country at an early hour."
       "At an early hour we started for the country."
       "We started at an early hour for the country."
    Unsatisfactory.
       "We started early at an hour for the country."
       "Early at an hour we started for the country."
       "We started early for the country."
    Half credit.
       "For the country at an early hour we started."
       "For the country we started at an early hour."

(b)
    Satisfactory.
       "I asked my teacher to correct my paper."
    Unsatisfactory.
       "My teacher asked to correct my paper."
       "To correct my paper I asked my teacher."
    Half credit.
       "My teacher I asked to correct my paper."

(c)
    Satisfactory.
       "A good dog defends his master bravely."
       "A good dog bravely defends his master."
    Unsatisfactory.
       "A dog defends his master bravely."
       "A bravely dog defends his master."
       "A good dog defends his bravely master."
       "A good brave dog defends his master."
    Half credit.
       "A dog defends his good master bravely."
       "A dog bravely defends his good master."
       "A good master bravely defends his dog."

REMARKS. This is an excellent test. It involves no knowledge which may not be presupposed at
the age in which it is given, and success therefore depends very little on experience. The
worst that can be urged against it is that it may possibly be influenced to a certain extent
by the amount of reading the subject has done. But this has not been demonstrated. At any rate,
the test satisfies the most important requirement of a test of intelligence; namely, the percentage
of successes increases rapidly and steadily from the lower to the higher levels of mental age.

This experiment can be regarded as a variation of the completion test. Binet tells us, in fact,
that it was directly suggested by the experiment of Ebbinghaus. As will readily be observed,
however, it differs to a certain extent from the Ebbinghaus completion test. Ebbinghaus omits
parts of a sentence and requires the subject to supply the omissions. In this test we give
all the parts and require the formation of a sentence by rearrangement. The two experiments
are psychologically similar in that they require the subject to relate given fragments into
a meaningful whole. Success depends upon the ability of intelligence to utilize hints, or clues,
and this in turn depends on the logical integrity of the associative processes. All but the
highest grade of the feeble-minded fail with this test.

This test is found in year XI of Binet's 1908 series and in year XII of his 1911 revision.
Goddard and Kuhlmann retain it in the original location. That it is better placed in year XII
is indicated by all the available statistics with normal children, except those of Goddard.
With this exception, the results of various investigators for year XII are in remarkably close
agreement, as the following figures will show:--

    Per cent passing at year XII

    Binet                           66
    Kuhlmann                        68
    Bobertag                        78
    Dougherty                       64
    Strong                          72
    Léviste and Morlé               70
    Stanford series (1911)          62
    Stanford series (1913)          57
    Stanford series (1914)          62
    Princeton data                  61

This agreement is noteworthy considering that no two experiments seem to have used exactly
the same arrangement of words, and that some have presented the words of a sentence in a single
line, others in two or three lines. A single line would appear to be somewhat easier.

XII, 5. INTERPRETATION OF FABLES (SCORE 4)

The following fables are used:--

(a) Hercules and the Wagoner

    A man was driving along a country road, when the wheels
    suddenly sank in a deep rut. The man did nothing but look at the
    wagon and call loudly to Hercules to come and help him. Hercules
    came up, looked at the man, and said: "Put your shoulder to the
    wheel, my man, and whip up your oxen." Then he went away and
    left the driver.

(b) The Milkmaid and her Plans

    A milkmaid was carrying her pail of milk on her head, and was
    thinking to herself thus: "The money for this milk will buy
    4 hens; the hens will lay at least 100 eggs; the eggs will
    produce at least 75 chicks; and with the money which the chicks
    will bring I can buy a new dress to wear instead of the ragged
    one I have on." At this moment she looked down at herself,
    trying to think how she would look in her new dress; but as she
    did so the pail of milk slipped from her head and dashed upon
    the ground. Thus all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment. Will you not sing for me, so that I may judge
    whether this is true?" The crow was so pleased that she opened
    her mouth to sing and dropped the meat, which the fox
    immediately ate.

(d) The Farmer and the Stork

    A farmer set some traps to catch cranes which had been eating
    his seed. With them he caught a stork. The stork, which had not
    really been stealing, begged the farmer to spare his life,
    saying that he was a bird of excellent character, that he was
    not at all like the cranes, and that the farmer should have pity
    on him. But the farmer said: "I have caught you with these
    robbers, and you will have to die with them."

(e) The Miller, His Son, and the Donkey

    A miller and his son were driving their donkey to a neighboring
    town to sell him. They had not gone far when a child saw them
    and cried out: "What fools those fellows are to be trudging
    along on foot when one of them might be riding." The old man,
    hearing this, made his son get on the donkey, while he himself
    walked. Soon, they came upon some men. "Look," said one of them,
    "see that lazy boy riding while his old father has to walk." On
    hearing this, the miller made his son get off, and he climbed on
    the donkey himself. Farther on they met a company of women, who
    shouted out: "Why, you lazy old fellow, to ride along so
    comfortably while your poor boy there can hardly keep pace by
    the side of you!" And so the good-natured miller took his boy up
    behind him and both of them rode. As they came to the town a
    citizen said to them, "Why, you cruel fellows! You two are
    better able to carry the poor little donkey than he is to carry
    you." "Very well," said the miller, "we will try." So both of
    them jumped to the ground, got some ropes, tied the donkey's
    legs to a pole and tried to carry him. But as they crossed the
    bridge the donkey became frightened, kicked loose and fell into
    the stream.

PROCEDURE. Present the fables in the order in which they are given above. The method is to
say to the subject:

"You know what a fable is? You have heard fables?" Whatever the answer, proceed to explain
a fable as follows: "A fable, you know, is a little story, and is meant to teach us a lesson.
Now, I am going to read a fable to you. Listen carefully, and when I am through I will ask
you to tell me what lesson the fable teaches us. Ready; listen." After reading the fable, say:
"What lesson does that teach us?" Record the response verbatim and proceed with the next as
follows: "Here is another. Listen again and tell me what lesson this fable teaches us," etc.

As far as possible, avoid comment or commendation until all the fables have been given. If
the first answer is of an inferior type and we express too much satisfaction with it, we thereby
encourage the subject to continue in his error. On the other hand, never express dissatisfaction
with a response, however absurd or malapropos it may be. Many subjects are anxious to know
how well they are doing and continually ask, "Did I get that one right?" It is sufficient to
say, "You are getting along nicely," or something to that effect. Offer no comments, suggestions,
or questions which might put the subject on the right track. This much self-control is necessary
if we would make the conditions of the test uniform for all subjects.

The only occasion when a supplementary question is permissible is in case of a response whose
meaning is not clear. Even then we must be cautious and restrict ourselves to some such question
as, "What do you mean?" or, "Explain; I don't quite understand what you mean." The scoring
of fables is somewhat difficult at best, and this additional question is often sufficient to
place the response very definitely in the right or wrong column.

SCORING. Give score 2, i.e., 2 points, for a correct answer, and 1 for an answer which deserves
half credit. The test is passed in year XII if 4 points are earned; that is, if two responses
are correct or if one is correct and two deserve half credit.

Score 2 means that the fable has been correctly interpreted and that the lesson it teaches
has been stated in general terms.

There are two types of response which may be given half credit. They include (1) the interpretations
which are stated in general terms and are fairly plausible, but are not exactly correct; and
(2) those which are perfectly correct as to substance, but are not generalized.

We overlook ordinary faults of expression and regard merely the essential meaning of the response.

The only way to explain the method is by giving copious illustrations. If the following sample
responses are carefully studied, a reasonable degree of expertness in scoring fables may be
acquired with only a limited amount of actual practice. The sampling may appear to the reader
needlessly prolix, but experience has taught us that in giving directions for the scoring of
tests error always lies on the side of taking too much for granted.

(a) Hercules and the Wagoner

    Full credit; score 2. "God helps those who help themselves."
    "Do not depend on others." "Help yourself before calling for
    help." "It teaches that we should rely upon ourselves."

    The following are not quite so good, but are nevertheless
    considered satisfactory. "We should always try, even if it looks
    hard and we think we can't do it." "When in trouble try to get
    out of it yourself." "We've got to do things without help." "Not
    to be lazy."

    Half credit; score 1. This is most often given for the
    response which contains the correct idea, but states it in terms
    of the concrete situation, e.g.: "The man ought to have tried
    himself first." "Hercules wanted to teach the man to help
    himself." "The driver was too much inclined to depend on
    others." "The man was too lazy. He should not have called for
    help until he had tried to get out by himself." "To get out and
    try instead of watching."

    Unsatisfactory; score 0. Failures are mainly of five
    varieties: (1) generalized interpretations which entirely miss
    the point; (2) crude interpretations which not only miss the
    point, but are also stated in terms of the concrete situation;
    (3) irrelevant or incoherent remarks; (4) efforts to repeat the
    story; and (5) inability to respond.

    Sample failures of type (1), entirely incorrect generalizations:
    "Teaches us to look where we are going." "Not to ask for
    anything when there is no one to help." "To help those who are
    in trouble." "Teaches us to be polite." "How to help others."
    "Not to be cruel to horses." "Always to do what people tell you"
    (or "obey orders," etc.). "Not to be foolish" (or stupid, etc.).
    "If you would have a thing well done, do it yourself."

    Failures of type (2), crude interpretations stated in concrete
    terms: "How to get out of the mud." "Not to get stuck in the
    mud." "To carry a stick along to pry yourself out if you get
    into a mud-hole." "To help any one who is stuck in the mud."
    "Taught Hercules to help the horses along and not whip them too
    hard." "Not to be mean like Hercules."

    Failures of type (3), irrelevant responses: "It was foolish not
    to thank him." "He should have helped the driver." "Hercules was
    mean." "If any one helps himself the horses will try." "The
    driver should have done what Hercules told him." "He wanted the
    man to help the oxen."

    Type (4): Efforts to repeat the story.

    Type (5): Inability to respond.

(b) The Maid and the Eggs

    Full credit; score 2. "Teaches us not to build air-castles."
    "Don't count your chickens before they are hatched." "Not to
    plan too far ahead." Slightly inferior, but still acceptable:
    "Never make too many plans." "Don't count on the second thing
    till you have done the first."

    Half credit; score 1. "It teaches us not to have our minds on
    the future when we carry milk on the head." "She was building
    air-castles and so lost her milk." "She was planning too far
    ahead."

    The responses just given are examples of fairly correct
    interpretations in non-generalized terms. The following are
    examples of generalized interpretations which fall below the
    accuracy required for full credit: "Never make plans." "Not to
    be too proud." "To keep our mind on what we are doing." "Don't
    cross a bridge till you come to it." "Don't count your eggs
    before they are hatched." "Not to be wanting things; learn to
    wait." "Not to imagine; go ahead and do it."

    Unsatisfactory; score 0. Type (1), entirely incorrect
    generalization: "That money does not buy everything." "Not to be
    greedy." "Not to be selfish." "Not to waste things." "Not to
    take risks like that." "Not to think about clothes." "Count your
    chickens before they are hatched."

    Type (2), very crude interpretations stated in concrete terms:
    "Not to carry milk on the head." "Teaches her to watch and not
    throw down her head." "To carry her head straight." "Not to
    spill milk." "To keep your chickens and you will make more
    money."

    Type (3), irrelevant responses: "She wanted the money." "Teaches
    us to read and write" (18-year-old of 8-year intelligence).
    "About a girl who was selling some milk."

    Type (4), effort to repeat the story.

    Type (5), inability to respond.

(c) The Fox and the Crow

    Full credit; score 2. "Teaches us not to listen to flattery."
    "Don't let yourself be flattered." "It is not safe to believe
    people who flatter us." "We had better look out for people who
    brag on us."

    Half credit; score 1. Correct idea in concrete terms: "The
    crow was so proud of herself that she lost all she had." "The
    crow listened to flattery and got left." "Not to be proud and
    let people think you can sing when you can't." "If anybody
    brags on you don't sing or do what he tells you."

    Pertinent but somewhat inferior generalizations: "Not to be too
    proud." "Pride goes before a fall." "To be on our guard against
    people who are our enemies." "Not to do everything people tell
    you." "Don't trust every slick fellow you meet."

    Unsatisfactory; score 0. Type (1), incorrect generalization:
    "Not to go with people you don't know." "Not to be selfish." "To
    share your food." "Look before you leap." "Not to listen to
    evil." "Not to steal." "Teaches honesty." "Not to covet." "Think
    for yourself." "Teaches wisdom." "Never listen to advice."
    "Never let any one get ahead of you." "To figure out what they
    are going to do." "Never try to do two things at once." "How to
    get what you want."

    Type (2), very crude interpretation stated in terms of the
    concrete situation: "Not to sing before you eat." "Not to hold a
    thing in your mouth; eat it." "To eat a thing before you think
    of your beauty." "To swallow it before you sing." "To be on your
    watch when you have food in your mouth."

    Type (3), irrelevant responses: "The fox was greedy." "The fox
    was slicker than what the crow was." "The crow ought not to have
    opened her mouth." "The crow should just have shaken her head."
    "It served the crow right for stealing the meat." "The fox
    wanted the meat and just told the crow that to get it."
    "Foolishness." "Guess that's where the old fox got his
    name--'Old Foxy'--Don't teach us anything."

(d) The Farmer and the Stork

    Full credit; score 2. "You are judged by the company you
    keep." "Teaches us to keep out of bad company." "Birds of a
    feather flock together." "If you go with bad people you are
    counted like them." "We should choose our friends carefully."
    "Don't go with bad people." "Teaches us to avoid the appearance
    of evil."

    Half credit; score 1. "The stork should not have been with the
    cranes." "Teaches him not to go with robbers." "Don't go with
    people who are not of your nation." "Not to follow others."

    Unsatisfactory; score 0. Type (1), incorrect generalization:
    "Not to steal." "Not to tell lies." "Not to give excuses." "A
    poor excuse is better than none." "Not to trust what people
    say." "Not to listen to excuses." "Not to harm animals that do
    no harm." "To have pity on others." "Not to be cruel." "To be
    kind to birds." "Not to blame people for what they don't do."
    "Teaches that those who do good often suffer for those who do
    evil." "To tend to your own business." "Not to meddle with other
    people's things." "Not to trespass on people's property." "Not
    to think you are so nice." "To keep out of mischief."

    Type (2), very crude interpretations in concrete terms: "Taught
    the stork to look where it stepped and not walk into a trap."
    "Taught the stork to keep out of the man's field." "Not to take
    the seeds."

    Type (3), irrelevant responses: "The farmer was right; storks do
    eat grain." "Served the stork right, he was stealing too." "He
    should try to help the stork out of the field."

(e) The Miller, His Son, and the Donkey

    Full credit; score 2. "When you try to please everybody you
    please nobody." "Don't listen to everybody; you can't please
    them all." "Don't take every one's advice." "Don't try to do
    what everybody tells you." "Use your own judgment." "Have a mind
    of your own." "Make up your mind and stick to it." "Don't be
    wishy-washy." "Have confidence in your own opinions."

    Half credit; score 1. Interpretations which are generalized
    but somewhat inferior: "Never take any one's advice" (too
    sweeping a conclusion). "Don't take foolish advice." "Take your
    own advice." "It teaches us that people don't always agree."

    Correct idea but not generalized: "They were fools to listen to
    everybody." "They should have walked or rode just as they
    thought best, without listening to other people." "To be kind to old
    people." "To be polite." "To serve others." "Not to be cruel to
    animals." "To have sympathy for beasts of burden." "To be
    good-natured." "Not to load things on animals that are small."
    "That it is always better to leave things as they are." "That
    men were not made for beasts of burden." "That walking is better than
    riding." "The people should have been more polite to the old
    man." "That the father should be allowed to ride."

    Type (3), irrelevant responses: "The men were too heavy for the
    donkey." "They ought to have stayed on and they would not have
    fallen into the stream." "It teaches about a man and he lost his
    donkey."

REMARKS. The fable test, or the "test of generalization," as it may aptly be named, was used
by the writer in a study of the intellectual processes of bright and dull boys in 1905,[71]
and was further standardized by the writer and Mr. Childs in 1911.[72] It has proved its worth
in a number of investigations. It has been necessary, however, to simplify the rather elaborate
method of scoring which was proposed in 1911, not because of any logical fault of the method,
but because of the difficulty in teaching examiners to use the system correctly. The method
explained above is somewhat coarser, but it has the advantage of being much easier to learn.

[71] "Genius and Stupidity," in Pedagogical Seminary, vol. xiii, pp. 307-73.

[72] "A Tentative Revision and Extension of the Binet-Simon Measuring Scale of Intelligence,"
Journal of Educational Psychology (1912).

The generalization test presents for interpretation situations which are closely paralleled
in the everyday social experience of human beings. It tests the subject's ability to understand
motives underlying acts or attitudes. It gives a clue to the status of the social consciousness.
This is highly important in the diagnosis of the upper range of mental defectiveness. The criterion
of the subnormal's fitness for life outside an institution is his ability to understand social
relations and to adjust himself to them. Failure of a subnormal to meet this criterion may
lead him to break common conventions, and to appear disrespectful, sulky, stubborn, or in some
other way queer and exceptional. He is likely to be misunderstood, because he so easily misunderstands
others. The skein of human motives is too complex for his limited intelligence to untangle.

Ethnological studies have shown in an interesting way the social origin of the moral judgment.
The rectitude of the moral life, therefore, depends on the accuracy of the social judgment.
It would be interesting to know what proportion of offenders have transgressed moral codes
because of continued failure to grasp the essential lessons presented by human situations.

For the intelligent child even the common incidents of life carry an endless succession of
lessons in right conduct. On the average school playground not an hour passes without some
happening which is fraught with a moral hint to those who have intelligence enough to generalize
the situation. A boy plays unfairly and is barred from the game. One bullies his weaker companion
and arouses the anger and scorn of all his fellows. Another vents his braggadocio and feels
at once the withering scorn of those who listen. Laziness, selfishness, meanness, dishonesty,
ingratitude, inconstancy, inordinate pride, and the countless other faults all have their social
penalties. The child of normal intelligence sees the point, draws the appropriate lesson and
(provided emotions and will are also normal) applies it more or less effectively as a guide
to his own conduct. To the feeble-minded child, all but lacking in the power of abstraction
and generalization, the situation conveys no such lesson. It is but a muddle of concrete events
without general significance; or even if its meaning is vaguely apprehended, the powers of
inhibition are insufficient to guarantee that right action will follow.

It is for this reason that the generalization test is so valuable in the mental examinations
of delinquents. It presents a moral situation, imagined, to be sure, but none the less real
to the individual of normal comprehension. It tells us quickly whether the subject tested is
able to see beyond the incidents of the given situation and to grasp their wider relations--whether
he is able to generalize the concrete.

The following responses made by feeble-minded delinquents from 16 to 21 years of age demonstrate
sufficiently their inability to comprehend the moral situation:--

    Hercules and the Wagoner. "Teaches you to look where you are
    going." "Not to help any one who is stuck in the mud." "Not to
    whip oxen." "Teaches that Hercules was mean." "Teaches us to
    carry a stick along to pry the wheels out."

    The Fox and the Crow. "Not to sing when eating." "To keep away
    from strangers." "To swallow it before you sing." "Not to be
    stingy." "Not to listen to evil." "The fox was wiser than the
    crow." "Not to be selfish with food." "Not to do two things at
    once." "To hang on to what you've got."

    The Farmer and the Stork. "Teaches the stork to look where he
    steps." "Not to be cruel like the farmer." "Not to tell lies."
    "Not to butt into other people's things." "To be kind to birds."
    "Teaches us how to get rid of troublesome people." "Never go
    with anything else."

The following are the responses of an 18-year-old delinquent (intelligence level 10 years)
to the five fables:--

    Maid and Eggs. "She was thinking about getting the dress and
    spilled the milk. Teaches selfishness."

    Hercules and the Wagoner. "He wanted to help the oxen out."

    Fox and Crow. "Guess that's where the fox got his name--'Old
    Foxy.' Don't teach us anything."

    Farmer and Stork. "Try and help the stork out of the field."

    Miller, Son, and Donkey. "They was all big fools and mean to
    the donkey."

One does not require very profound psychological insight to see that a person of this degree
of comprehension is not promising material for moral education. His weakness in the ability
to generalize a moral situation is not due to lack of instruction, but is inherent in the nature
of his mental processes, all of which have the infantile quality of average 9- or 10-year intelligence.
Well-instructed normal children of 10 years ordinarily succeed no better. The ability to draw
the correct lesson from a social situation is little developed below the mental level of 12 or 13 years.

The test is also valuable because it throws light on the subject's ability to appreciate the
finer shades of meaning. The mentally retarded often show marked inferiority in this respect.
They sense, perhaps, in a general way the trend of the story, but they fail to comprehend much
that to us seems clearly expressed. They do not get what is left for the reader to infer, because
they are insensible to the thought fringes. It is these which give meaning to the fable. The
dull subject may be able to image the objects and activities described, but taken in the rough
such imagery gets him nowhere.

Finally, the test is almost free from the danger of coaching. The subject who has been given
a number of fables along with twenty-five or thirty other tests can as a rule give only hazy
and inaccurate testimony as to what he has been put through. Moreover, we have found that,
even if a subject has previously heard a fable, that fact does not materially increase his
chances of giving a correct interpretation. If the situation depicted in the fable is beyond
the subject's power of comprehension even explicit instruction has little effect upon the quality
of the response.

Incidentally, this observation raises the question whether the use of proverbs, mottoes, fables,
poetry, etc., in the moral instruction of children may not often be futile because the material
is not fitted to the child's power of comprehension. Much of the school's instruction in history
and literature has a moral purpose, but there is reason to suspect that in this field schools
often make precocious attempts in "generalizing" exercises.

XII, 6. REPEATING FIVE DIGITS REVERSED

The series are 3-1-8-7-9; 6-9-4-8-2; 5-2-9-6-1.

PROCEDURE and SCORING. Exactly as in years VII and IX.[73]

[73] See discussion, p. 207 ff.

XII, 7. INTERPRETATION OF PICTURES

PROCEDURE. Use the same pictures as in III, 1, and VII, 2, and the additional picture d. Present
in the same order. The formula to begin with is identical with that in VII, 2: "Tell me what
this picture is about. What is this a picture of?" This formula is chosen because it does not
suggest specifically either description or interpretation, and is therefore adapted to show
the child's spontaneous or natural mode of apperception. However, in case, this formula fails
to bring spontaneous interpretation for three of the four pictures, we then return to those
pictures on which the subject has failed and give a second trial with the formula: "Explain
this picture." A good many subjects who failed to interpret the pictures spontaneously do so
without difficulty when the more specific formula is used.

If the response is so brief as to be difficult to classify, the subject should be urged to
amplify by some such injunction as "Go ahead," or "Explain what you mean."

One more caution. It is necessary to refrain from voicing a single word of commendation or
approval until all the pictures have been responded to. A moment's thought will reveal the
absolute necessity of adhering to this rule. Often a subject will begin by giving an inferior
type of response (description, say) to the first picture, but with the second picture adjusts
better to the task and responds satisfactorily. If in such a case the first (unsatisfactory)
response were greeted with an approving "That's fine, you are doing splendidly," the likelihood
of any improvement taking place as the test proceeds would be greatly lessened.

SCORING. Three pictures out of four must be satisfactorily interpreted. "Satisfactorily" means
that the interpretation given should be reasonably plausible; not necessarily the exact one
the artist had in mind, yet not absurd. The following classified responses will serve as a
fairly secure guide for scoring:--

(a) Dutch Home

    Satisfactory. "Child has spilled something and is getting a
    scolding." "The baby has hurt herself and the mother is
    comforting her." "The baby is crying because she is hungry and
    the mother has nothing to give her." "The little girl has been
    naughty and is about to be punished." "The baby is crying
    because she does not like her dinner." "There's bread on the
    table and the mother won't let the little girl have it and so
    she is crying." "The baby is begging for something and is crying
    because her mamma won't give it to her." "It's a poor family.
    The father is dead and they don't have enough to eat."

    Unsatisfactory. "The baby is crying and the mother is looking
    at her" (description). "It's in Holland, and there's a little
    girl crying, and a mamma, and there's a dish on the table"
    (mainly description). "The mother is teaching the child to walk"
    (absurd interpretation).

(b) River Scene

    Satisfactory. "Man and lady eloping to get married and an
    Indian to row for them." "I think it represents a honeymoon
    trip." "In frontier days and a man and his wife have been
    captured by the Indians." "It's a perilous journey and they have
    engaged the Indian to row for them."

    Unsatisfactory. "They are shooting the rapids." "An Indian
    rowing a man and his wife down the river" (mainly description).
    "A storm at sea" (absurd interpretation). "Indians have rescued
    a couple from a shipwreck." "They have been up the river and
    are riding down the rapids."

    The following responses are somewhat doubtful, but should
    probably be scored minus: "People going out hunting and have
    Indian for a guide." "The man has rescued the woman from the
    Indians." "It's a camping trip."

(c) Post-Office

    Satisfactory. "It's a lot of old farmers. They have come to
    the post-office to get the paper, which only comes once a week,
    and they are all happy." "There's something funny in the paper
    about one of the men and they are all laughing about it." "They
    are reading about the price of eggs, and they look very happy so
    I guess the price has gone up." "It's a bunch of country
    politicians reading the election news."

    Unsatisfactory. "A man has just come out of the post-office
    and is reading to his friends." "It's a little country town and
    they are looking at the paper." "A man is reading the paper and
    the others are looking on and laughing." "Some men are reading a
    paper and laughing, and the other man has brought some eggs to
    market, and it's in a little country town." (All the above are
    mainly description.)

    Responses like the following are somewhat better, but hardly
    satisfactory: "They are reading something funny in the paper."
    "They are reading the ads." "They are laughing about something
    in the newspaper," etc.

(d) Colonial Home

    Satisfactory. "They are lovers and have quarreled." "The man
    has to go away for a long time, maybe to war, and she is afraid
    he won't return." "He has proposed and she has rejected him, and
    she is crying because she hated to disappoint him." "The woman
    is crying because her husband is angry and leaving her." "The
    man is a messenger and has brought the woman bad news."

    Unsatisfactory. "The husband is leaving and the dog is looking
    at the lady." "It's a picture to show how people dressed in
    colonial times." "The lady is crying and the man is trying to
    comfort her." "The man is going away. The woman is angry because
    he is going. The dog has a ball in its mouth and looks happy,
    and the man looks sad."

    Such responses as the following are doubtful, but rather minus
    than plus: "A picture of George Washington's home." "They
    have lost their money and they are sad" (gratuitous
    interpretation). "The man has struck the woman."

    Doubt sometimes arises as to the proper scoring of imaginative
    or gratuitous interpretations. The following are samples of
    such: (a) "The little girl is crying because she wants a new
    dress and the mother is telling her she can have one when
    Christmas comes if she will be good." (b) "The man and woman
    have gone up the river to visit some friends and an Indian guide
    is bringing them home." (c) "Some old Rubes are reading about
    a circus that's going to come." (d) "Napoleon leaving his
    wife."

