I write to you this morning from my favourite place, without anything having happened since
last night that is worth recording--save perhaps the thousand flitting nothings in the landscape.
I got up with the sun, which now floods all the space with silver. The cold is still keen,
but by piling on our woollen things we get the better of it on these nights in billets. There
is only this to say: that to-morrow we go to our trenches in the second line, in the woods
that are now thin and monotonous. Of our three stations, that is the one I perhaps like the
least, because the sky is exiled behind high branches. It is more a landscape for R----, but
flat, and spoilt by the kind of existence that one leads there.

Hostilities seem to be recommencing in our region with a certain amount of energy. This morning
we can hear a violent fusillade, a thing very rare in this kind of war, in which attacks are
generally made at night, the day being practically reserved for artillery bombardments.

Dear mother, let us put our hope in the strength of soul which will make petition each hour,
each minute. . . .

       *       *       *       *       *

. . . Yes, it gives me pleasure to tell you about my life; it is a fine life in so many ways.
Often, at night, as I walk along the road where my little duty takes me, I am full of happiness
to be able thus to communicate with the greatness of Nature, with the sky and its harmonious
pattern of stars, with the large and gracious curves of these hills; and though the danger
is always present, I think that not only your courage, your consciousness of the eternal, but
also your love for me will make you approve of my not stopping perpetually to puzzle over the
enigma.

So my present life brings extreme degrees of feeling, which cannot be measured by time. Feeling
produced, for instance, by beautiful leafage, the dawn, a delicate landscape, a touching moon.
These are all things in which qualities at once fleeting and permanent isolate the human heart
from all preoccupations which lead us in these times either to despairing anxiety, or to abject
materialism, or again to a cheap optimism, which I wish to replace by the high hope that is
common to us all, and which does not rely on human events.

All my tenderness and constant love for grandmother; for you, courage, calm, perfect resignation
without effort.

November 23.

DEAR MOTHER,--Here we are arrived in our shelters in the second line. We lodge in earth huts,
where the fire smokes us out as much as it warms us. The weather, which during the night was
overcast, has given us a charming blue and rosy morning. Unfortunately the woods have less
to say to me than the marvellous spaces of our front lines. Still, all is beautiful here.

Yesterday my day was made up of the happiness of writing to you; I went into the village church
without being urged by a single romantic feeling nor any desire for comfort from without. My
conception of divine harmony did not need to be supported by any outward form, or popular symbol.

Then I had the great good fortune to go with a carriage into the surrounding country. Oh, the
marvellous landscape--still of blue and rosy colour, paled by the mist! All this rich and luminous
delicacy found definite accents in the abrupt spots made by people scattered about the open.
My landscape, always primitive in its precision, now took on a subtlety of nuances, a richness
of variety essentially modern.

One moment I recalled the peculiar outer suburbs of Paris with their innumerable notes and
their suppressed effects. But here there is more frankness and candour. Here everything was
simply rose and blue against a pale grey ground.

My driver, getting into difficulty with his horse, entrusted the whip to me to touch up the
animal: I must have looked like a little mechanical toy.

We passed by the Calvaries which keep guard over the Meuse villages, a few trees gathered round
the cross.

November 24, 3.30 (back from the march).

I have just received a letter of the 16th and a card, and a dear letter of the 18th. These
two last tell me of the arrival of my packet. How glad I am to hear that! For a moment I asked
myself whether I was right to send you these impressions, but, between us two, life has never
been and can never be anything but a perpetual investigation in the region of eternal truths,
fervent attention to the truth each earthly spectacle presents. And so I do not regret sending
you those little notes.

My worst sufferings were during the rainy days of September. Those days are a bitter memory
to every one. We slept interlocked, face against face, hands crossed, in a deluge of water
and mud. It would be impossible to imagine our despair.

To crown all, after these frightful hours, they told us that the enemy was training his machine-guns
upon us, and that we must attack him. However, we were relieved; the explosion was violent.

As for my still unwritten verse, 'Soleil si pale,' etc., it relates to the 11th, 12th, and
13th of October, and, generally, to the time of the battle in the woods, which lasted for our
regiment from September 22nd to October 13th. What struck me so much was to see the sun rise
upon the victims.

Since then I have written nothing, but for a prayer which I sent you five or six days ago.
I composed it while I was on duty on the road.

November 25, in the morning.

. . . Yesterday, in the course of that march, I lived in a picture by my beloved primitives.
Coming out of the wood, as we went down a long road, we had close by us a large farm-house,
plumed by a group of bare trees beside a frozen pool.

Then, in the under-perspective so cleverly used by my dear painters with their air of simplicity,
a road, unwinding itself, with its slopes and hills, bound in by shrubs, and some solitary
trees: all this precise, fine, etched, and yet softened. A little bridge spanning a stream,
a man on horseback passing close to the little bridge, carefully silhouetted, and then a little
carriage: delicate balance of values, discreet, yet well maintained--all this in front of a
horizon of noble woods. A kind of grey weather which has replaced the enchantment, so modern
in feeling, of the nuances of last Sunday, takes me back to that incisive consciousness which
moves us as a Breughel and the other masters, whose names escape me. Like this, too, the clear
and orderly thronging in Albert Dürer backgrounds.

November 26.

DEAREST MOTHER,--I didn't succeed in finishing this letter yesterday. We were very busy. And
now to-day it is still dark. From my dug-out, where I have just arrived in the front line,
I send you my great love; I am very happy. I feel that the work I am to do in future is taking
shape in myself. What does it matter if Providence does not allow me to bring it to light?
I have firm hope, and above all I have confidence in eternal justice, however it may surprise
our human ideas. . . .

November 28.

The position we occupy is 45 metres away from the enemy. The roads of approach are curious
and even picturesque in their harshness, emphasised by the greyness of the weather.

Our troops, having dodged by night the enemy's vigilance, and come up from the valley to the
mid-heights where the rising ground protects them from the infantry fire, find shelters hollowed
from the side of the hill, burrows where those who are not on guard can have some sleep and
the warmth of an Improvised hearth. Then, farther on, just where the landscape becomes magnificent
in freedom, expanse, and light, the winding furrow, called the communication trench, begins.
Concealed thus, we arrive in the trench, and it is truly a spectacle of war, severe and not
without grandeur--this long passage which has a grey sky for ceiling, and in which the floor
is covered over with recent snow. Here the last infantry units are stationed--units, generally,
of feeble effective. The enemy is not more than a hundred metres away. From there continues
the communication trench, more and more deep and winding, in which I feel anew the emotion
I always get from contact with newly turned earth. The excavating for the banking-up works
stirs something in me: it is as if the energy of this disembowelled earth took hold of me and
told me the history of life.

Two or three sappers are at work lengthening the hollows, watched by the Germans who, from
point to point, can snipe the insufficiently protected places. At this end the last sentry
guards about forty metres.

You can picture the contrast between all this military organisation and the peace that used
to reign here. Think what an astonishment it is to me to remember that where I now look the
labourer once walked behind his plough, and that the sun, whose glory I contemplate as a prisoner
contemplates liberty, shone upon him freely on these heights.

Then, too, when at dusk I come out into the open, what an ecstasy! I won't speak to you of
this, for I feel I must be silent about these joys. They must not be exposed: they are birds
that love silence. . . . Let us confine our speech to that essential happiness which is not
easily affrighted--the happiness of feeling ourselves prepared equally for all.

November 29, in the morning (from a billet).

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--Yesterday evening I left the first line trenches in broken weather which,
in the night, after my arrival here, turned into rain. I watch it falling through the fog from
my favourite window. If you like I will tell you of the wonders I saw yesterday.

From the position described in my letter of yesterday, can be seen, as I have often written
to you, the most marvellous horizon. Yesterday a terrible wind rent a low veil of clouds which
grew red at their summits. Perhaps the background of my 'Haheyna' will give you a faint idea
of what it was. But how much more majestic and full of animation was the emotion I experienced
yesterday.

The hills and valleys passed in turn from light to shade, now defined, now veiled, according
to the movement of the mists. High up, blue spaces fringed with light.

Such was the beauty of yesterday. Shall I speak of the evenings that went before, when, on
my way along the road, the moon brought out the pattern of the trees, the pathetic Calvaries,
the touching spectacle of houses which one knew were ruins, but which night seemed to make
stand forth again like an appeal for peace.

I am glad to see you like Verlaine. Read the fine preface by Coppée to the selected works,
which you will find in my library.

His fervour has a spontaneity, I might almost say a grossness, which always repels me a little,
just because it belongs to that kind of Catholic fervour which on its figurative side will
always leave me cold. But what a poet!

He has been my almost daily delight both here and when I was in Paris; often the music of his
Paysages Tristes comes back to me, exactly expressing the emotion of certain hours. His life
is as touching as that of a sick animal, and one almost wonders that a like indignity has not
withered the exquisite flowers of his poetry. His conversion, that of an artist rather than
of a thinker, followed on a great upsetting of his existence which resulted from grave faults
of his. (He was in prison.)

In the Lys Rouge Anatole France has drawn a striking portrait of him, under the name of Choulette;
perhaps you will find we have this book.

In Sagesse the poems are fine and striking because of the true impulse and sincerity of the
remorse. A little as though the cry of the Nuit de Mai resounded all through his work.

Our two great poets of the last century, Musset and Verlaine, were two unhappy beings without
any moral principle with which to stake up their flowers of thought--yet what magnificent and
intoxicating flowers.

Perhaps I tire you when I speak thus on random subjects, but to do so enables me to plunge
back into my old life for a little while. Since I had the happiness of getting your letters,
I have not taken note of anything. Do not think that distractions by the way make me forgetful
of our need and hope, but I believe it is just the beautiful adornment of life which gives
it, for you and me, its value.

I am still expecting letters from you after that of the 22nd, but I am sure to get them here
in this billet. Thank you for the parcel you promise: poor mothers, what pains they all take!

December 1, in the morning (from a billet).

I remember the satisfaction I felt in my freedom when I was exempted from my military duties.
It seemed to me that if, at twenty-seven years old, I had been obliged to return to the regiment,
my life and career would have been irretrievably lost. And here I am now, twenty-eight years
old, back in the army, far from my work, my responsibilities, my ambitions--and yet never has
life brought me such a full measure of finer feelings; never have I been able to record such
freshness of sensibility, such security of conscience. So those are the blessings arising out
of the thing which my reasonable human foresight envisaged as disaster. And thus continues
the lesson of Providence which, upsetting all my fears, makes good arise out of every change
of situation.

The two last sunrises, yesterday and to-day, were lovely. . . .

I feel inclined to make you a little sketch of the view from my window. . . .

       *       *       *       *       *

It is done from memory; in your imagination you must add streaks of purple colour, making the
most dramatic effect, and an infinite stretch of open country to right and left. This is what
I have been able again and again to look upon, during this time. At this moment, the soft sky
brings into harmony the orchards where we work. My little job dispenses me from digging for
the time. Such are the happinesses which, from afar, had the appearance of calamities.

December 1 (2nd letter).

I have just received your letters of the 25th, 26th, and 27th, as well as a dear letter from
Grandmother, so valiant, so full of spirit, and so clear-minded. It gave me great pleasure,
and brings me a dear hope, of which I accept the augury with joy. Each one of your beloved
letters, too, gives me the best of what life holds for me. My first letter of to-day replies
to what you say about the acceptation of trials and the destruction of idols.

You will see that I think absolutely as you do, and I trust that there is in this hour no impeding
idol in my heart. . . .

I think that my last prayer is in fact very simple. The spirit of the place could not have
borne to be clothed in an art that was overloaded. God was everywhere, and everywhere was harmony:
the road at night, of which I speak to you so often, the starry sky, the valley full of the
murmuring of water, the trees, the Calvaries, the hills near and far. There would not have
been any room for artifice. It is useless for me to give up being an artist, but I hope always
to be sincere and to use art as it were only for the clothing of my conscience.

December 5, in the morning.

. . . We have come out of our burrows, and three days of imprisonment are followed by a morning
in the open. It would be impossible to imagine such a state of mud.

Your pretty aluminium watch is the admiration of everybody.

Is André's wound serious? The mothers endure terrible agony in this war, but courage--nothing
will be lost. As for me, I get on all right, and am as happy as one may be.

