Sir Walter gave him reason, and even King came to conclude that he had suspected him unjustly,
whilst the rowers, under Stukeley's suasion, now threw themselves heartily into their task,
and onward sped the boat through the deepening night, taking but little account of that other
wherry that hung ever in their wake. In this wise they came at length to Greenwich on the last
of the ebb. But here finding the water beginning to grow against them, and wearied by the exertion
into which Stukeley's enthusiasm had flogged them, the watermen paused again, declaring that
they could not reach Gravesend before morning.

Followed a brief discussion, at the end of which Sir Walter bade them put him ashore at Purfleet.

"And that's the soundest counsel," quoth the boatswain. "For at Purfleet we can get horses
on to Tilbury."

Stukeley was of the same opinion; but not so the more practical Captain King.

"'Tis useless," he declared to them. "At this hour how shall you get horses to go by land?"

And now, Sir Walter, looking over his shoulder, saw the other wherry bearing down upon them
through the faintly opalescent mists of dawn. A hail came to them across the water.

"Oh, 'Sdeath! We are betrayed!" cried Ralegh bitterly, and Stukeley swore more fiercely still.
Sir Walter turned to him. "Put ashore," he said shortly, "and let us home."

"Ay, perhaps 'twere best. For to-night there's an end to the enterprise, and if I am taken
in your company now, what shall be said to me for this active assistance in your escape?" His
voice was gloomy, his face drawn and white.

"Could you not plead that you had but pretended to go with me to seize on my private papers?"
suggested the ingenious mind of Ralegh.

"I could. But shall I be believed? Shall I?" His loom was deepening to despair.

Ralegh was stricken almost with remorse on his cousin's account. His generous heart was now
more concerned with the harm to his friends than with his own doom. He desired to make amends
to Stukeley, but had no means save such as lay in the power of that currency he used. Having
naught else to give, he must give that. He plunged his hand into an inner pocket, and brought
forth a handful of jewels, which he thrust upon his kinsman.

"Courage," he urged him. "Up now, and we may yet win out and home, so that all will be well
with you at least, and you shall not suffer for your friendship to me."

Stukeley embraced him then, protesting his love and desire to serve him.

They came to land at last, just below Greenwich bridge, and almost at the same moment the other
wherry grounded immediately above them. Men sprang from her, with the obvious intent of cutting
off their retreat.

"Too late!" said Ralegh, and sighed, entirely without passion now that the dice had fallen
and showed that the game was lost. "You must act on my suggestion to explain your presence, Lewis."

"Indeed, there is no other course," Sir Lewis agreed. "And you are in the same case, Captain
King. You must confess that you joined with me but to betray Sir Walter. I'll bear you out.
Thus, each supporting the other..."

"I'll roast in Hell before I brand myself a traitor," roared the Captain furiously. "And were
you an honest man, Sir Lewis, you'ld understand my meaning."

"So, so?" said Stukeley, in a quiet, wicked voice. And it was observed that his son and one
or two of the watermen had taken their stand beside him as if in readiness for action. "Why,
then, since you will have it so, Captain, I arrest you, in the King's name, on a charge of
abetting treason."

The Captain fell back a step, stricken a moment by sheer amazement. Then he groped for a pistol
to do at last what he realized he should have done long since. Instantly he was overpowered.
It was only then that Sir Walter understood the thing that had happened, and with understanding
came fury. The old adventurer flung back his cloak, and snatched at his rapier to put it through
the vitals of his dear friend and kinsman. But he was too late. Hands seized upon him, and
he found himself held by the men from the wherry, confronted by a Mr. William Herbert, whom
he knew for Stukeley's cousin, and he heard Mr. Herbert formally asking him for the surrender
of his sword.

Instantly he governed himself, repressed his fury. He looked coldly at his kinsman, whose face
showed white and evil in the growing light of the early summer dawn "Sir Lewis," was all he
said, "these actions will not turn out to your credit."

He had no illusion left. His understanding was now a very full one. His dear friend and kinsman
had played him false throughout, intending first to drain him of his resources before finally
flinging the empty husk to the executioner. Manourie had been in the plot; he had run with
the hare and hunted with the hounds; and Sir Walter's own servant Cotterell had done no less.
Amongst them they had "cozened the great cozener"--to use Stukeley's own cynical expression.
Even so, it was only on his trial that Sir Walter plumbed the full depth of Stukeley's baseness;
for it was only then he learnt that his kinsman had been armed by a warrant of immunity to
assist his projects of escape, so that he might the more effectively incriminate and betray
him; and Sir Walter discovered also that the ship in which he had landed, and other matters,
were to provide additional Judas' fees to this acquisitive betrayer.

If to escape his enemies Sir Walter had had recourse to artifices unworthy the great hero that
he was, now that all hope was lost he conducted himself with a dignity and cheerfulness beyond
equal. So calm and self-possessed and masterly was his defence from the charge of piracy preferred
at the request of Spain, and so shrewd in its inflaming appeal to public opinion, that his
judges were constrained to abandon that line of prosecution, and could discover no way of giving
his head to King James save by falling back upon the thirteen-year old sentence of death against
him. Of this they now ordered execution.

Never a man who loved his life as dearly as Sir Walter loved it met death as blithely. He dressed
himself for the scaffold with that elegance and richness which all his life he had observed.
Under his plumed hat he covered his white locks with a wrought nightcap. This last he bestowed
on his way to the scaffold upon a bald-headed old man who had come to take a last look of him,
with the observation that he was more in need of it than himself. When he had removed it, it
was observed that his hair was not curled as usual. This was a matter that had fretted his
barber Peter in the prison of the Gatehouse at Westminster that morning. But Sir Walter had
put him off with a laugh and a jest.

"Let them comb it that shall have it," he had said of his own head.

Having taken his leave of the friends who had flocked about him with the observation that he
had a long journey before him, he called for the axe, and, when presented to him, ran his fingers
along the edge, and smiled.

"Sharp medicine," quoth he, "but a sound cure for all diseases."

When presently the executioner bade him turn his head to the East:

"It is no great matter which way a man's head stands, so that his heart lies right," he said.

Thus passed one of England's greatest heroes, indeed one of the very makers of this England,
and than his death there is no more shameful blot upon the shameful reign of that pusillanimous
James, unclean of body and of soul, who sacrificed him to the King of Spain.

A spectator of his death, who suffered for his words--as men must ever suffer for the regardless
utterance of Truth--declared that England had not such another head to cut off.

As for Stukeley, the acquisitiveness which had made a Judas of him was destined, by a poetic
justice, ever desired but rarely forthcoming for knaves, soon to be his ruin. He was caught
diminishing the gold coin of the realm by the operation known to-day as "clipping," and with
him was taken his creature Manourie, who, to save himself, turned chief witness against Stukeley.
Sir Lewis was sentenced to death, but saved himself by purchasing his pardon at the cost of
every ill-gotten shilling he possessed, and he lived thereafter as bankrupt of means as he
was of honour.

Yet before all this happened, Sir Lewis had for his part in Sir Walter Ralegh's death come
to be an object of execration throughout the land, and to be commonly known as "Sir Judas."
At Whitehall he suffered rebuffs and insults that found a climax in the words addressed to
him by the Lord Admiral, to whom he went to give an account of his office.

"Base fellow, darest thou who art the contempt and scorn of men offer thyself in my presence?"

For a man of honour there was but one course. Sir Judas was not a man of honour. He carried
his grievance to the King. James leered at him.

VIII. HIS INSOLENCE OF BUCKINGHAM

George Villier's Courtship of Ann of Austria

He was Insolence incarnate.

Since the day when, a mere country lad, his singular good looks had attracted the attention
of King James--notoriously partial to good-looking lads--and had earned him the office of cup-bearer
to his Majesty, the career of George Villiers is to be read in a series of acts of violent
and ever-increasing arrogance, expressing the vanity and levity inherent in his nature. Scarcely
was he established in the royal favour than he distinguished himself by striking an offending
gentleman in the very presence of his sovereign--an act of such gross disrespect to royalty
that his hand would have paid forfeit, as by law demanded, had not the maudlin king deemed
him too lovely a fellow to be so cruelly maimed.

Over the mind and will of King Charles his ascendancy became even greater than it had been
over that of King James; and it were easy to show that the acts of George Villiers' life supplied
the main planks of that scaffold in Whitehall whereupon Charles Stuart came to lose his head.
Charles was indeed a martyr; a martyr chiefly to the reckless, insolent, irresponsible vanity
of this Villiers, who, from a simple country squire with nothing but personal beauty to recommend
him, had risen to be, as Duke of Buckingham, the first gentleman in England.

The heady wine of power had gone to his brain, and so addled it that, as John Chamberlain tells
us, there was presently a touch of craziness in him--of the variety, no doubt, known to modern
psychologists as megalomania He lost the sense of proportion, and was without respect for anybody
or anything. The Commons of England and the immensely dignified Court of Spain--during that
disgraceful, pseudo-romantic adventure at Madrid--were alike the butts of this parvenu's unmeasured
arrogance But the crowning insolence of his career was that tragicomedy the second act of which
was played on a June evening in an Amiens garden on the banks of the river Somme.

Three weeks ago--on the 14th May, 1625, to be precise--Buckingham had arrived in Paris as Ambassador
Extra-ordinary, charged with the task of conducting to England the King of France's sister,
Henrietta Maria, who three days earlier had been married by proxy to King Charles.

The occasion enabled Buckingham to fling the reins on to the neck of his mad vanity, to indulge
to the very fullest his crazy passion for ostentation and magnificence. Because the Court of
France was proverbially renowned for splendour and luxury, Buckingham felt it due to himself
to extinguish its brilliance by his own. On his first coming to the Louvre he literally blazed.
He wore a suit of white satin velvet with a short cloak in the Spanish fashion, the whole powdered
over with diamonds to the value of some ten thousand pounds. An enormous diamond clasped the
heron's plume in his hat; diamonds flashed in the hilt of his sword; diamonds studded his very
spurs, which were of beaten gold; the highest orders of England, Spain, and France flamed on
his breast. On the occasion of his second visit he wore a suit of purple satin, of intent so
lightly sewn with pearls that as he moved he shook them off like raindrops, and left them to
lie where they fell, as largesse for pages and the lesser fry of the Court.

His equipages and retinue were of a kind to match his personal effulgence. His coaches were
lined with velvet and covered with cloth of gold, and some seven hundred people made up his
train. There were musicians, watermen, grooms of the chamber, thirty chief yeomen, a score
of cooks, as many grooms, a dozen pages, two dozen footmen, six outriders, and twenty gentlemen,
each with his own attendants, all arrayed as became the satellites of a star of such great
magnitude.

Buckingham succeeded in his ambition. Paris, that hitherto had set the fashion to the world,
stared mouth-agape, dazzled by the splendour of this superb and scintillating ambassador.

Another, by betraying consciousness of the figure that he cut, might have made himself ridiculous.
But Buckingham's insolent assurance was proof against that peril. Supremely self-satisfied,
he was conscious only that what he did could not be better done, and he ruffled it with an
air of easy insouciance, as if in all this costly display there was nothing that was not normal.
He treated with princes, and even with the gloomy Louis XIII., as with equals; and, becoming
more and more intoxicated with his very obvious success, he condescended to observe approvingly
the fresh beauty of the young Queen.

Anne of Austria, then in her twenty-fourth year, was said to be one of the most beautiful women
in Europe. She was of a good height and carriage, slight, and very gracefully built, of a ravishing
fairness of skin and hair, whilst a look of wistfulness had come to invest with an indefinable
tenderness her splendid eyes. Her childless marriage to the young King of France, which had
endured now for ten years, had hardly been successful. Gloomy, taciturn, easily moved to suspicion,
and difficult to convince of error, Louis XIII. held his wife aloof, throwing up between himself
and her a wall of coldness, almost of dislike.

There is a story--and Tallemant des Raux gives credit to it--that in the early days of her
reign as Queen of France, Richelieu had fallen deeply in love with her, and that she, with
the mischief of an irresponsible young girl, had encouraged him, merely to betray him to a
ridicule which his proud spirit had never been able to forgive. Be that or another the reason,
the fact that Richelieu hated her, and subjected her to his vindictive persecution, is beyond
dispute. And it was he who by a hundred suggestions poisoned against her the King's mind, and
thus kept ever open the gulf between the two.

The eyes of that neglected young wife dilated a little, and admiration kindled in them, when
they rested upon the dazzling figure of my Lord of Buckingham. He must have seemed to her a
figure of romance, a prince out of a fairy-tale.

That betraying glance he caught, and it inflamed at once his monstrous arrogance. To the scalps
already adorning the belt of his vanity he would add that of the love of a beautiful young
queen. Perhaps he was thrilled in his madness by the thought of the peril that would spice
such an adventure. Into that adventure he plunged forthwith. He wooed her during the eight
days that he abode in Paris, flagrantly, openly, contemptuous of courtiers and of the very
King himself. At the Louvre, at the Hotel de Chevreuse, at the Luxembourg, where the Queen-Mother
held her Court, at the Hotel de Guise, and elsewhere he was ever at the Queen's side.

Richelieu, whose hard pride and self-love had been wounded by the Duke's cavalier behaviour,
who despised the fellow for an upstart, and may even have resented that so shallow a man should
have been sent to treat with a statesman of his own caliber--for other business beside the
marriage had brought Buckingham to Paris--suggested to the King that the Duke's manner in approaching
the Queen lacked a proper deference, and the Queen's manner of receiving him a proper circumspection.
Therefore the King's long face became longer, his gloomy eyes gloomier, as he looked on. Far,
however, from acting as a deterrent, the royal scowl was mere incense to the vanity of Buckingham,
a spur to goad him on to greater daring.

On the 2nd of June a splendid company of some four thousand French nobles and ladies, besides
Buckingham and his retinue, quitted Paris to accompany Henrietta Maria, now Queen of England,
on the first stage of her journey to her new home. The King was not of the party. He had gone
with Richelieu to Fontainebieau, leaving it to the Queen and the Queen-Mother to accompany
his sister.

Buckingham missed no chance upon that journey of pressing his attentions upon Anne of Austria.
Duty dictated that his place should be beside the carriage of Henrietta Maria. But duty did
not apply to His Insolence of Buckingham, so indifferent of whom he might slight or offend.
And then the devil took a hand in the game.

At Amiens, the Queen-Mother fell ill, so that the Court was compelled to halt there for a few
days to give her Majesty the repose she required. Whilst Amiens was thus honoured by the presence
of three queens at one and the same time within its walls, the Duc de Chaulnes gave an entertainment
in the Citadel. Buckingham attended this, and in the dance that followed the banquet it was
Buckingham who led out the Queen.

Thereafter the royal party had returned to the Bishop's Palace, where it was lodged, and a
small company went out to take the evening cool in the Bishop's fragrant gardens on the Somme,
Buckingham ever at the Queen's side. Anne of Austria was attended by her Mistress of the Household,
the beautiful, witty Marie de Rohan, Duchess of Chevreuse, and by her equerry, Monsieur de
Putange. Madame de Chevreuse had for cavalier that handsome coxcomb, Lord Holland, who was
one of Buckingham's creatures, between whom and herself a certain transient tenderness had
sprung up. M. de Putange was accompanied by Madame de Vernet, with whom at the time he was
over head and ears in love. Elsewhere about the spacious gardens other courtiers sauntered.

Now either Madame de Chevreuse and M. de Putange were too deeply engrossed in their respective
companions, or else the state of their own hearts and the tepid, languorous eventide disposed
them complacently towards the affair of gallantry upon which their mistress almost seemed to
wish to be embarked. They forgot, it would seem, that she was a queen, and remembered sympathetically
that she was a woman, and that she had for companion the most splendid cavalier in all the
world. Thus they committed the unpardonable fault of lagging behind, and allowing her to pass
out of their sight round the bend of an avenue by the water.

No sooner did Buckingham realize that he was alone with the Queen, that the friendly dusk and
a screen of trees secured them from observation, than, piling audacity up on audacity, he determined
to accomplish here and now the conquest of this lovely lady who had used him so graciously
and received his advances with such manifest pleasure.

"How soft the night! How exquisite!" he sighed.

"Indeed," she agreed. "And how still, but for the gentle murmur of the river."

"The river!" he cried, on a new note. "That is no gentle murmur. The river laughs, maliciously
mocking. The river is evil."

