OUR NATIONAL FINANCES.

Our national finances are involved in extreme peril. Our public debt exceeds $720,000,000,
and is estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury, on the 1st of July next, at $1,122,297,403,
and on the 1st of July, 1864, at $1,744,685,586. When we reflect that this is nearly one half
the debt of England, and bearing almost double the rate of interest, it is clear that we are
approaching a fatal catastrophe. Nor is this the most alarming symptom. Gold now commands a
premium of thirty-two per cent., as compared with legal tender treasury notes, and, with largely
augmented issues, must rise much higher, with a correspondent increase of our debt and expenditures.
Indeed, should the war continue, and there be no other alternative than additional treasury
notes, they will, before the close of the next fiscal year, fail to command forty cents on
the dollar in gold, and our debt exceed several billions of dollars. This would result from
an immense redundancy and depreciation of currency, and from the alarm created here and in
Europe, as to the maintenance of the Union, and the ultimate solvency of the Government. Indeed,
our enemies, at home and abroad, the rebels, and their allies in the North and in Europe, already
announce impending national bankruptcy and repudiation, and there are many devoted patriots
who fear such a catastrophe.

That the danger is imminent, is a truth which must not be disguised. Here lies the great peril
of the Government. It is not the rebel armies that can ever overthrow the Union. It is the
alarming increase of the public debt and expenditures, and the still more appalling depreciation
of the national currency, that most imperil the great Republic.

And is the Union indeed to fall? Are we to be divided into separate States or many confederacies,
each warring against the other, the sport of foreign oligarchs, the scorn of humanity, the
betrayers of the liberty of our country and of mankind? Can we yet save the Republic? This
is a fearful and momentous question, but it must be answered, and answered NOW. Inaction is
syncope. Delay is death. The life of the Republic is ebbing fast, and the approaching Ides
of March may toll the funeral words, It is too late!

What then must be done to avert the dread catastrophe? Action, immediate and energetic action,
in the field and in Congress. Winter is the best season for a campaign in the South. On--on--on
with the banner of the Republic, by land and sea, and with all the reinforcements, from the
Ohio and Potomac to the Gulf. On, also, with the necessary measures in Congress to save our
finances from ruin, arrest the depreciation of our national currency, and restore the public
credit. We are upon the verge of ruin. We are hanging over the gulf of an irredeemable paper
system, and its spectral shade, repudiation, is seen dimly in the dark abyss. The present Congress
may save us; but what of the next? Would they, if they could? Who can answer? Can they, if
they would? No! no! It will then be too late. Never did any representative assembly encounter
so fearful a responsibility as the present Congress. Each member must vote as if the fate of
the Union and of humanity depended upon his action. He must rise above the passing clouds of
passion and prejudice, of State, local, or selfish interests, into the serene and holy atmosphere,
illumined by the light of truth, and warmed by the love of his country and of mankind. His
only inquiry must be, What will save the nation? The allegiance to the Union is paramount,
its maintenance 'the supreme law,' the lex legum, of highest obligation, and he who, abandoning
this principle, follows in preference any real or supposed State policy, is a secessionist
in action, and a traitor to his country and mankind. Should the catastrophe happen, no such
paltry motives will save him from disgrace and infamy; and, if he be snatched from oblivion,
his only epitaph will be: Here lies a destroyer of the American Union. He did not destroy it
by bullets, but by votes. He did not march against it with armed battalions; but, a sentinel,
he slept on the post of duty, and--his country fell.

What, then, can Congress do? They can consider at once this great financial question, uninterrupted
by any other measure, until there shall have been action complete and decisive. But two months
more remain of the session. Not another day nor hour must be lost. All admit that something
must be done, and done quickly.

What then is the remedy for our depreciated and depreciating national currency? The Secretary
of the Treasury anticipated the disaster, and proposed a remedy in 1861. I gave his bank plan
then my earnest and immediate support. Well would it have been for our country if it had then
been adopted, and gold would not now command a premium of thirty-two per cent. After a year's
experience and deliberation, the Secretary reiterates his former recommendation, with words
of solemn import, and arguments of great force. His is the chief responsibility. To him is
mainly intrusted the custody of the public credit. His is now the duty of saving us from national
bankruptcy. At such a time, I would differ from him on such a question, only on the clearest
convictions, and then only upon the condition that I had a better plan as a substitute, and
that mine could become a law now, and be carried now into practical execution. If all this
could not be done, I would support the plan of the Secretary, as all admit that delay or inaction
is death. If my words be too bold or earnest, let them be attributed to my profound conviction
that the American Union is in extreme peril, and that its downfall involves the final catastrophe
of our country and of our race. Let no man talk of a separation of the Union in any contingency.
Let none speak now of peace or compromise with armed treason. Let none think of constructing
separate nationalities out of the broken and bleeding fragments of a dismembered Union. No;
far better that our wrecked and blasted earth should swing from its orbit, disintegrate into
its original atoms, and its place remain forever vacant in the universe, than that we should
survive, with such memories of departed glory, and such a burning sense of unutterable infamy
and degradation. Fallen--fallen--fallen! from the highest pinnacle to the lowest depth, to
rise no more forever! What American would wish to live, and encounter such a destiny? And why
fallen? From a cause more damning than our fate. Fallen, let the truth be told, as history
would record, because faction was stronger than patriotism, and the degenerate sons of noble
sires extinguished the world's last hope, by basely surrendering the American Union to the
foul coalition of slavery and treason. This rebellion is the most stupendous crime in the annals
of our race, and its projectors and coadjutors, at home or abroad, individual or dynastic,
are doomed to immortal infamy. With its demoniac passions, its satanic ambition, desecrating
the remains of the slain, making goblets of their skulls, and trinkets of their bones, this
revolt is a heliograph of Dahomey, and Devildom daguerreotyped more vividly than by Danté or
Milton.

The plan of the Secretary is clear, simple, comprehensive, practical, and effective. It is
the plan of an uniform circulation, furnished by the Federal Government to banking associations
organized by Congress, securing prompt redemption by the deposit of the same amount of U.S.
six per cent stock in the Federal custody, the principal and interest of this stock being payable
in gold. This plan, with me, is a necessity, and not a choice. It is the plan of the Secretary,
and not mine, and is therefore supported by me from no vanity of authorship. Nay, more, it
required me to overcome strong prejudices against any bank circulation, and especially any
connected in any way with the Government. It is, however, a strong recommendation of the plan
of the Secretary, that the proposed connection of the banks with the Government is not political,
and attended with none of the formidable objections to the late Bank of the United States.
Ever since the bank suspension of 1837, I have been a bullionist, and sustained that doctrine
in the Senate of the United States, and as Secretary of the Treasury. The act establishing
the independent treasury in 1846, was drawn by me, avowedly as a 'specie receiving and specie
circulating' institution, and to restrain excessive issues by the banks; but it is impossible
now to carry that system into practical execution. The suspension of specie payment by the
banks and the Government, has been forced by the enormous expenditures of the war, and the
sub-treasury, which never was designed for the custody or disbursement of paper, has been so
far virtually superseded. In acceding now, as in December, 1861, to the Secretary's plan of
a bank circulation, I must be understood as having changed my views in no respect as to banks,
but that I yield to the great emergency, which renders the support of the war and of the Union
paramount to any question of coin or currency.

The national disbursements for the present and succeeding fiscal year, as stated by the Secretary,
together with his remarks on that subject, supersede the necessity of any further argument
in proof of the absolute impossibility of specie payments now by the Government. We are compelled
to resort to paper, and the only question is as to the character and extent of the issue. It
is my opinion that we should limit this paper currency, as far as practicable, that it may
be as little depreciated now as possible; so that when the rebellion is crushed, the banks
and the Government may resume specie payments at the earliest moment. I favor the plan of the
Secretary mainly because, by arresting depreciation, it would furnish a currency approaching
specie now more nearly than can be accomplished in any other way, and because, when the war
is over, it provides the best means for a return, in the shortest possible period, to specie
payments. An irredeemable paper currency dissolves contracts, violates good faith, and its
history here and in Europe is a record of financial ruin, bankruptcy, and repudiation, of frauds,
crimes, and demoralization, which no friend of his country or race can desire to witness. The
issue of treasury notes as a legal tender was favored by me as a necessity super-induced by
the rebellion, and as a substitute for the present bank issues. Such notes would be depreciated
much less when made a legal tender, and, to that extent, our expenditures would be diminished,
and specie payments could, therefore, be resumed eventually at a much earlier period. Why,
then, it is asked, not continue and extend that system, rather than adopt the plan recommended
by the Secretary? Because, Congress refusing to prohibit a bank circulation, such increased
issues of treasury notes would cause a further great depreciation of such notes, to that extent
augment our expenditures, and postpone, perhaps indefinitely, the resumption of specie payments.
Gold now commands a premium of thirty-two per cent., payable in treasury notes; but, if such
issues be increased one half, they would fall to fifty per cent., and, if doubled, to at least
sixty per cent. below specie. At the last rate, if our yearly expenditures, paid in paper,
reached $700,000,000, this would command but $280,000,000 in gold, thus subjecting the Government
to a loss of $420,000,000 per annum, and at thirty-two per cent. discount, $224,000,000 per
annum. These notes, it is true, bear no interest, which at six per cent. on $280,000,000, would
save $16,800,000 a year. But as under the Secretary's plan (hereafter developed) the Government
would only pay an annual interest of four per cent. on this loan, the saving would only be
$11,200,000. Deduct this interest thus saved from the $420,000,000 of increased annual expenditures,
arising from such depreciation of treasury notes, and the result is a net loss of $408,800,000
per annum to the Government, from the use of such redundant and depreciated currency. Surely,
such a system would soon terminate in bankruptcy and repudiation, repeating the history of
French assignats and Continental money.

Nor is it the Government only that suffers from such a disaster, but the ruin extends to the
people. There is no law more clearly established than this: that the currency of a country
bears a certain fixed proportion to its wealth and business. If we expand the currency beyond
this proportion, we violate this law, and will surely suffer the terrible penalties of this
disobedience. This law is so certain and invariable, that, if the expansion beyond this proportion
should be even in specie, the result would still be disastrous.

This was illustrated during the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella, when Spain, having opened
the virgin mines of America, brought the precious metals in countless millions within her limits,
and restricted their exportation by the most stringent penalties. And what was the consequence?
The result was that Spain, which had been the most prosperous nation of Europe, and whose products
and manufactures had supplied the markets of the world, lost nearly all her exports, and was
forced to resort to the prohibitory system.

What is the effect here of a redundant currency, is ascertained by reference to our exports.
By Treasury Tables 20 and 21, our foreign imports consumed here in 1836-'7 rose to $168,233,675,
being largely more than double what they were in 1832 ($76,989,793), and nearly double the
consumption, per capita, which was $5.61 in 1832, and $10.93 in 1836. This was our great year
of a redundant, although still a convertible currency, when our imports consumed exceeded our
exports of domestic produce, $61,662,733; and so enhanced was the cost of living and production
here, that we actually imported breadstuffs that year of the value of $5,271,576. (Table 1,
Com. and Nav.) Our bank currency that year was as follows: Circulation, $149,185,890; deposits,
$127,397,185; circulation and deposits, $276,583,075; loans, $525,115,702. (Treasury Report,
1838, Doc. 79, tables K. K.) The legitimate result of this expansion of loans and currency
was the great bank suspension of May, 1837, and general bankruptcy throughout the country.

Now our bank circulation in 1860 was $207,102,477; deposits, $253,802,129; circulation and
deposits, $460,904,606; loans, $691,495,580. (Table 34, Census of 1860.) Yet our population
in 1860 was more than double that of 1837, and our wealth (the true barometer, marking the
proper rise and fall of our currency) had much more than quadrupled. (Census Table 35.) The
proportion of the currency to wealth in 1837 was more than double the ratio of 1860. It was
not the tariff that produced the suspension of 1837, for it was much lower in 1860, than at
the date of the bank suspension of 1837.

By Treasury Table 24, our total exports abroad of domestic produce, exclusive of specie, from
the 30th of September, 1821, to 30th June, 1861, were $5,060,929,667; and, in the year ending
the 30th June, 1860, were $316,242,423. At the same rate of increase from 1860 to 1870, as
from 1850 to 1860, our domestic exports exclusive of specie in the decade ending the 30th June,
1870, would have exceeded five billions of dollars, had peace continued and the currency been
no more redundant in proportion to our wealth than in 1860. But with a redundant and depreciated
currency our exports must have been reduced at least one fourth. What would be the effect on
every branch of our industry, may be learned by looking at Treasury Table 40, showing our domestic
exports for the year ending 30th June, 1861. These exports were, of the products of our fisheries,
$4,451,515; of the forest, $10,260,809; of agriculture, exclusive of cotton, rice, and tobacco,
$100,273,655, and of our manufactures, $35,786,804. This was mainly from the loyal States.
Now if the foreign markets for our products are reduced only one fourth by the effect of a
redundant currency, inflating here the cost of production and of living, the result would be
most disastrous to our industry. The reduction would be equal, as we have seen, to $125,000,000
per annum, and $1,250,000,000 in the decade. Our imports would be reduced in the same proportion,
and our revenue from customs in a corresponding ratio. Supposing the average rate of duties
of the present tariff to be equal to 40 per cent. ad valorem, this would make a difference
in our revenue from customs of $500,000,000 in the decade, and, including interest not compounded,
$635,000,000. And here I deem it a duty to say to the financial portion of our peace party,
especially in New York, that our redundant and depreciated currency, with our failure to crush
the rebellion, and a consequent dissolution of the Union, would make repudiation inevitable.
We are forced, then, by a due regard to our material interests, as well as by the higher obligations
of honor and duty, to subdue the revolt and restore the supremacy of the Government in every
State. This we can and must do. It is due to our country and to the world. It is due to the
wounded and mutilated survivors of the bloody conflict, and to our martyred dead, murdered
by the foulest treason, and in the accursed cause of slavery. No! all this blood and treasure
must not have been poured out in vain. It is a question mainly of money and persistence. Our
armies can and will conquer the rebellion, if we can and will supply the sinews of war. Our
success is much more a financial than a military question. As regards the result, the Secretary
of the Treasury holds now the most important post in this contest: he is the generalissimo;
and as he is right on this question, and the fate of the Union is involved, I deem it my duty
to give him my earnest and zealous support.

Ruinous as must be the effect of a redundant and depreciated currency upon all industrial pursuits,
the injustice to our gallant army and navy, regulars and volunteers, would be attended with
extreme peril. Upon their courage and endurance we must rely for success. We have pledged to
our brave troops, who are wounded or dying by thousands that the Union may live, such pay as
to enable them while fighting our battles to make allotments of portions of their money for
the support of their families during their absence. We have promised pensions also. These are
all solemn pledges on the part of our Government, and our faith is violated if this pay or
these pensions are reduced. But there is no difference between a law directly reducing this
pay and these pensions, and the adoption by Congress of the policy of a redundant and depreciated
currency which will produce the same result. Every vote then in Congress for such a policy,
is a vote to reduce the pay and pensions for our troops, and to annihilate the allotments made
by them for the support of their families. What effect such a policy must have on our troops
and the maintenance of the Union is but too palpable. It is disbandment and dissolution. Every
such vote is given also to reduce the value of the wages of labor, and for increased taxation,
to the extent, as we have seen, of $408,800,000 per annum. It is a vote also to reduce our
exports and revenue from customs, to paralyze our industry; and finally, in its ultimate results,
it is a vote against the war, for repudiation and disunion, and hence every disunionist will
oppose the plan of the Secretary.

To what extent this redundancy and depreciation will go, by enlarged issues of legal tender
treasury notes, we may learn from the fact that the banks substitute them for coin for the
redemption of their paper. Now, just in proportion as the issue of treasury notes becomes redundant
and depreciated, will the bank circulation, redeemable in such notes, augment and depreciate
also. This is the law of bank circulation as now forced upon us by Congress. It is the law
of redundancy and depreciation. If this policy is adopted by Congress, an enlarged issue made
of treasury notes, and the plan of the Secretary discarded, our bank and treasury note circulation,
with the war continued, will very largely exceed one billion of dollars before the close of
the next fiscal year, and both will be depreciated much more than sixty per cent. Thus, if
we should enlarge our issues of legal demand treasury notes to $500,000,000, and these be made
the basis of bank issues, in the ratio of three to one, our total paper circulation would be
$2,000,000,000, such treasury notes inflating the bank issues, and both depreciating together.
And yet this is the currency in which it is proposed to conduct the war and the business of
the country. The banks alone, by excessive loans and issues, would grow rich apparently, on
the ruin of their country. But there would be a terrible retribution. The result would be general
insolvency and repudiation, the debts due the banks would become worthless, and they be involved
in the general ruin. It is then the interest of the banks to sustain the Government and the
Secretary, and to transfer their capital to the new associations. This is especially the case
with the New York banks, which, under a provision of their State constitution, HAVE NO LEGAL
EXISTENCE. When repudiation and bankruptcy become general, the cry, like that of a routed army
in a panic flight, would be raised, Sauve qui peut; we may have again an old and a new court
party, especially under our miserable system of an elective judiciary; and the banks be crushed
by wicked legal devices, as they were in the West and Southwest in 1824 and 1838.

