Elliott's regiment of light-horse was chiefly composed of tailors; and the first man who suggested
the idea of abolishing the Slave Trade, was Thomas Woolman, a quaker, and tailor, of New Jersey.
He published many tracts on this species of traffic, went great distances to consult individuals
on the subject, on which business he came to England, and went to York, where he caught the
small-pox, and died October 7, 1772.

T.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS TO COCKNEY EQUESTRIANS.

The following hints are offered "in the milk of human kindness" to all "young gentlemen" who
hire a horse, or a horse and gig, to go the amazing distance of Kew or Richmond, on Sundays;
and may be compelled to flog the "tired jade" the last three miles back, in order to get it
home before midnight; also to prevent the annoying necessity of pulling up in a street adjacent
to the livery-stables, to cut off the frayed end of the whip thong, that the ostler may not
detect their flagellation.

M.A.S.

I. How to make a horse go that is utterly tired.

Dismount from thy horse and prick his sides all over with little holes with a nayle or fine
awle, in the spurring place. Take then window glass and stamp it unto a subtile powder, which
rub into his pricked sides; then mounting, but touch him not with the spur, and you shall have
your desire, for be sure if he have any life in him he will not fayle to go.

II. Here followeth another torment.

Dismount from thy horse and get a stick, which with your knife, jag and cut like unto the notches
of a saw, make then a slit with your knife in the ear of the horse, thrust therein the stick,
and when you find him to tyre, by working the stick backwards and forwards in the ear, you
will have your desire, for be sure if he have any life in him, he will not fayle to go.

III. Another torment may be used as follows.--

Dismount from thy horse (or gig) and take two round, smooth pebbles, which put into one ear
of your horse, and tye up the ear, that they escape not, then mounting and proceeding on thy
journey, thou shall have thy desire, for the noise of the stones jingling in his ear, will
not fayle to make him go, until he is utterly tired.--Markham's Farriery.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

BEAUTIES OF THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. One of those minds produced the Paradise Lost, the other
the Pilgrim's Progress.--Edinburgh Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

A London publisher advertises a collection of Nursery Tales as a "handsome present for youth."
Here the schoolmaster is surely behind-hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPROMPTU.--TO A LADY.

(From the Italian.)

  Think not thy faults, my pretty scold,
    Like transient clouds will pass away;
  Thine image in the rose behold,
    Whose leaves fade ere the thorns decay.

E.L.J.

This trifle was sent to the Mirror a few days since, and last Saturday it appeared in the Literary
Gazette, with the same signature, E.L.J.--Is not this double-dealing?

       *       *       *       *       *

Pantomimes.--Four hundred persons are nightly employed in the pantomime at Covent Garden Theatre,
on the stage, behind the scenes, and in the orchestra. Of this number are 90 carpenters in
the machinery, property, and scenic department. The usual cost of one of these relics of olden
Christmas at a patent theatre is £2,000.; and upwards of £10,000. are annually expended in
producing pantomimes for the amusement of the large and little children of this great metropolis.

How to keep away the Cholera.--Fear has proved at all times, but more particularly during the
prevalence of cholera, a fruitful predisposing cause of disease; be firm, therefore, and confident.
Cheerfulness of disposition, equanimity and serenity of mind, are essential means of preservation
from epidemic disorders, cholera especially. You have now the consoling assurance of the New
Board of Health, in confirmation of what we, the anti-contagionists, in regard to cholera,
had long before declared and contended for, that the disease does not pass to those about the
sick, and seldom spreads in families. Cholera, therefore, is thus disarmed of one of its worst
terrors. You only run the average share of risk of one in 1,200,000 individual inhabitants
of the metropolis, of being affected by the epidemic influence of the atmosphere, while that
influence lasts; and as you are put in possession of several means to counteract that influence,
the chances are greatly in your favour that you will not be attacked by cholera at all. To
this conclusion I am authorized to come by my experience, which has been very considerable,
and my observations, in more than one general epidemic, and by what I have read in all the
authors (twenty or thirty of them) who have treated of cholera.--Dr. Granville.

The Cholera.--An interesting experiment was tried at Newcastle last week, on the state of the
atmosphere. A kite was sent up, having attached to it a piece of fresh butcher's meat, a fresh
haddock, and a small loaf of bread. The kite ascended to a considerable height, and remained
at that elevation for an hour and a quarter. When brought to the ground, it was found that
the fish and the piece of meat were both in a putrid state, particularly the fish; and the
loaf, when examined through, a microscope, was discovered to be pervaded with legions of animalculae.
It may be worth while to repeat the experiment in other places to which cholera may unfortunately
extend itself.--Evening Paper.

Foreign Books.--From official accounts it appears that the foreign books imported into the
United Kingdom in the year 1830, weighed 3,441 cwt. 3 qrs. 13 lbs. the amount of duty upon
which was £11,865 4s. 4d. We find this in a paper on the Duties on Foreign Books in the Foreign
Quarterly Review, just published; in which the imported old books have obtained a considerable
ascendancy over the new ones.

       *       *       *       *       *

The lovers of the Fine Arts will hear with sorrow, the destruction by fire of Mr. Wilmshurst's
splendid Painted Window of the Tournament of the Field of the Cloth of Gold, described at page
246, vol. xv. of The Mirror. It was completed about two years since at a cost of nearly 2,000l.,
and three years' labour of the artist.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILIAR SCIENCE.